UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLER.
Statement of the Case.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. WYLER..
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

WESTERN

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 217. Argued April8, 4, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1d915.

In an action by an employ6 of a railroad company against the company,
based upon the general law of master and servant, and brought to
recover damages for an injury which had happened to the plaintiff in
Kansas while on duty there, an amended petition which changes the
nature of the claim, and bases it upon a statute of Kansas giving the
employ6 in such a case a right of action against the company in derogation of the general law, is at departure in pleading, and sets up a new
cause of action; and the statute of limitations as applied to such new
cause of action treats the action as commenced when the amendment
was incorporated into the pleadings, and not as begun when the action
itself was commenced.
This result is not in any way affected by the fact that the amended petition
was filed by consent, as such consent covers only the right to file the
amendment, but does not waive defences thereto when filed.

ON the 25th of September, 1885, Otto Wyler, the defendant
in error, sued the Union Pacific Railway Company, plaintiff
in error, in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, State of
Missouri, to recover damages for a personal injury. The petition alleged that in April, 1883, and for a long time prior
thereto, he was employed by the defendant at Wyandotte,
Kansas, in repairing locomotives and engines; that at the
date stated the corporation had in its employ other men
beside himself, among whom was one Charles B. Kline, who
at that time " was wholly incompetent and unfit for the
position which he occupied, and the work he performed; that
said incompetency was wholly unknown to plaintiff at said
time, though well known to defendant, and defendant negligently and wrongfully kept and retained said Kline in its
employ with full knowledge of his incompetency; that at
said time and place plaintiff, at the request of defendant, and
in the ordinary course of his employment, was engaged in
repairing a fire box in one of defendant's locomotives; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

on this particular occasion plaintiff was, at the request of
defendant, assisted in said work by said Kline; that plaintiff
and said Kline whilst so engaged in repairing said fire box of
said locomotive were in the act of lifting and placing in position the fire dump belonging thereto, (which was a part of
their said business and employment,) said dump being made
of iron and of great weight; that while engaged in such business, and without fault on the part of the plaintiff, and
through the negligence and mismanagement of defendant in
retaining and employing the said Kline, after knowing his
incompetency, the said heavy iron dump was carelessly and
negligently thrown down, and let fall against the plaintiff,"
by reason of which he was injured and damaged to the
extent of $25,000, for which judgment was asked.
In October, 1885, the defendant filed a general denial, and
on the 16th of November, 1885, removed the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Missouri. On the 18th of November, 1886, an amended
answer was filed, averring that the plaintiff's injury resulted
from his own negligence, and pleading in bar of the action a
limitation of two years under the laws of the State of Kansas.
On the 3d of November, 1887, the plaintiff replied to the
amended answer denying the charge of negligence, and demurred to the third clause thereof, which pleaded the Kansas
statute of limitations. On the 5th of January, 1888, the
demurrer to the defendant's answer was submitted to the
court. On the 23d of May the defendant amended his answer
by inserting in the third clause, which set out the statute of
limitations of Kansas, the averment that both parties were
residents of that State at the time of the accident and had
continued so up to that date. This amendment was consented
to by counsel, on condition that the demurrer which had been
filed to the first amended answer should be considered as
pleaded against the last answer, and that it be submitted.
The court sustained the demurrer to so much of the answer
as set up the bar of the Kansas statute.
Thereupon consent was filed that the defendant should
withdraw its answer and be at liberty to demur to the peti-

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLER.
Statement of the Case.

tion. A general demurrer was then filed. This demurrer
was sustained, with leave to amend instanter. On October
30, 1888, the plaintiff filed an amended petition, in which he
reiterated his original averments, and added thereto the charge
that his injury resulted from "the negligence and mismanagement of the defendant, its agents, and employ6s, and in consequence of the negligence and mismanagement of said Kline."
On the 2d day of November, 1888, by consent of counsel,
plaintiff filed a second amended petition. This restated the
averments of the first amended petition, except that it eliminated the charge of incompetency on the part of Kline, and
the averment of knowledge of such incompetency in the defendant, and rested the cause of action exclusively upon the negligence of Kline, as a fellow-servant of the plaintiff, averring
that the corporation was liable to plaintiff for injury suffered
by him through the negligence of a fellow-servant, for the
reason that a right of action was given in such case by the
law of Kansas, where the accident occurred. The language
of the petition is as follows: "That by reason of the premises
[the negligence above stated] the plaintiff had and has a
,cause of action against the defendant under and by virtue of
the law of Kansas in such cases made and provided in see. 1,
.chapter 93, Laws of Kansas of 1874."
On the 3d of November, 1888, the defendant answered the
-amended petition; 1st, by confessing that the plaintiff was in
its employ, and admitting the existence of the Kansas statute;
2d, by claiming that the injury suffered was brought about
through the plaintiff's own fault; 3d, by asserting that both
parties were citizens of the State of Kansas at the time the
accident occurred, and had been so ever since, and hence, the
right to recover was barred by the limitation of two years
created by the Kansas law; and, 4th, claiming that, as the
cause of action alleged in the second amended petition was
wholly different from that averred in the original and the first
amended petition, the same was barred by a limitation of five
years created by the laws of the State of Missouri.
On the 4th of March, 1889, leave was granted to withdraw
the foregoing answer and to file a demurrer. On the next

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

day the parties appeared in open court, and a new amended
answer was filed. This averred, in somewhat different phraseology, the defences already stated, and added a new one,
namely, want of jurisdiction. To the third ground of this
answer plaintiff demurred, and to the second ground he filed a
general denial. His demurrer was sustained on March 6. On
the issues thus made up the case was twice tried and the jury
failed to agree. In September, 1891, the case was tried for
the third time, and resulted in a verdict in favor of the plaintiff
for $10,000. After motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment had been overruled, the case was brought here by error.
Afr. A. A. Itoehling, Jr., and Mr. Sa uel Shellabargerfor
plaintiff in error. Mr. John W. Beebe, IMr. J. F. Dillon, illr.
-11. Hubbard, and Mr. J Xf. Wilson were on their brief.
Mr. W. fallett Phillips for defendant in error. Mr. T. P.
_Fenlon, Mr. J
. Jenkins, and Mr. 1. C. Wells filed a brief
for same.
MR. JUsTIcE WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It was claimed at bar that the demurrer filed instead of
being to the last answer, was to the first amended answer,
and therefore that it was addressed to the third ground therein
set out, that is to say, the plea of limitation under the Kansas
statute, and that the general denial, instead of being addressed
to the second ground in the last amended answer, applied to
the second ground in the first amended answer, which averred
negligence on the part of the plaintiff. The record does not
support this contention, although it indicates that the
pleader intended that the demurrer and the denial should
have that effect, but mistakenly applied them to the last
amended answer. The controversy on this point, however,
is immaterial in the view of the conclusions which we have
reached.
IThe statute law of Kansas provides as follows:
"Every
railroad company organized or doing business in this State

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLEI.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be liable for all damages done to any employ6 of such
company in consequence of any negligence of its agents, or by
any mismanagement of its engineers or other employ~s to any
person sustaining damage." Laws of Kansas, 1874, c. 93, § 1.
The occurrence for which the plaintiff seeks to recover damages happened in the State of Kansas in April, 1883. The
first petition was filed in the state court of Missouri on September 25, 1885, that is to say, two years and five months
after the injury. Actions for damages for personal injury,
not arising from contract, are barred by the general law of
Kansas after a period of two years. General Statutes of
Kansas, 1868, art. 3, c. 80. The first amended petition was
filed October 30, 1888, and the second amended petition November 2, 1888. At least five years and six months therefore
intervened between the occurrence which -caused the damage
and the filing of the second amended petition. The statute
law of Missouri bars actions on account of personal injury in
five years. Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1889, vol. 2, §§ 6773-6775.
The question of the operation of the statutes of limitation of
Kansas and Missouri, upon the right of action here asserted,
lies, therefore, at the very threshold of the case. It is an
elementary rule that limitations are governed by the law of
the forum, and not by the law of the place where the event
happened, which gave rise to the suit. This is not denied,
but it is argued that the Kansas statute operates in this case
as a bar to the action in the court of Missouri, because of
circumstances which make the case an exception to this general rule. It is also contended that the five-year limitation of
the law of Missouri bars the action, and this proposition is
based upon the claim that the second amended petition propounded an entirely new and distinct cause of action.
Before considering the limitation which it is asserted results
from the Kansas statute, we will determine whether the action
is barred by the law of Missouri, because if so, it will be
unnecessary to decide whether the Kansas statute has an
extra-territorial effect. The decision as to the application of
the Missouri law involves, first, the ascertainment of whether
the amended petition presented a new cause of action. The
VOL. CLVII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

legal principles by which this question must be solved are
those which belong to the law of departure, since the rules
which govern this subject afford the true criterion by which
to determine the question whether there is a new cause of
action in case of an amendment. In many of the States which
have adopted the Code System great latitude has been allowed
in regard to amendment; but even in those States it is held
that the question of what constitutes a departure in an amended
pleading is nevertheless to be determined by the rules of
common law, which thus furnish the test for ascertaining
whetlier a given amendment presents a new cause of action
even although it be permissible to advance such new cause,
by way of an amendment.
Coke upon Littleton, 304 a, says: "When a man in his
former plea pleadeth an estate made by the common law, in
the second plea regularly be shall not make it good by an act
of Parliament. So when in his former plea he intituleth
himselfe generally by the common law, in his second plea he
shall not enable himselfe by a custome, but should have pleaded
it first."
Comyn's Digest, "Pleader," (F. 8,) states the same rule, and
gives the following illustrations of departure:
"In debt on bond by sheriff against his bailiff to pay him
20d. for every defendant's name in every warrant in mesne
process, defendant pleads he bad paid it, plaintiff replies that
he had not paid it for A; defendant rejoins Stat. 23 11. 6,
and 3 G. it is a departure; for pleading he has had and rejoining he ought not to pay; and for pleading common law plea,
and rejoining a statute. Balan.tine v. Irwin, M. 4 G. 2, C.
3. Fort. 368.
"So, if a man avows, for that A being seized in fee granted
to him a rent, and the defendant pleads, nothing in the tenements at the time of the grant, and the plaintiff rejoins that A
was cestuy que use in fee, which use is now executed by the
statute of uses; this is a departure." P1. Com. 105 b.
Chitty on Pleading, 1, pp. 674, 675, states the principle as
follows: "A departure may be either in the substance of the
action or defence, or the law on which it is founded ; as if a

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLEII.
Opinion of the Court.

declaration be founded on the common law, and the replication attempt to maintain it by a special custom, or act of
Parliament."
Stephen on Pleading, pp. 412, 413, thus elucidates the
point: "These, it will be observed, are cases in which the
party deserts the ground, in point of fact, that he had first
taken. But it is also [a] departure, if he puts the same facts
on a new ground in point of law; as if he relies on the effect
of the common law, in his declarations, and on a custom in his
replication; or on the effect of the common law in his plea,
and a statute in his rejoinder."
Gould on Pleadings, pp. 423, 424, says:
"When the matter, first alleged as the ground of action or
defence, is pleaded as at common law, any subsequent pleading by the same party, supporting it by a particular custom,
is a departure."
"Again, a declaration or plea, asserting a right at common
law, is not fortified by the subsequent allegation of a right
created by statute. If, therefore, to an action of trespass, laid
in common form, for taking the plaintiff's cattle, the defendant justifies the taking of them damage feasant, by distress;
and the plaintiff replies, that the defendant drove them out of
the county, (which is not actionable by the common law,
though made so by the statute 52 I[.3, and 1 and 2 Ph. &
M. c. 12,) the replication is a departure, for the same reason
as in the last case. The plaintiff in this case should have
founded his action upon the statutes."
Saunders on Pleading and Evidence, pp. 806, 807, thus
supports these authorities: "A departure in pleading is said
to be when a party quits or departs from the case or defence
which he has first made and has recourse to another; it is
when his replication or rejoinder contains matter not pursuant
to the declaration or plea, and which does not support and
fortify it. A departure may be either in the substance of the
action or defence, or the law on which it is founded."
The courts have, by their decisions, made application of
these principles to changes in the facts averred or law relied

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

on, thus illustrating the rule in many aspects. Where it was
first alleged in an action for libel that the defendant had
attacked the solvency of the plaintiff, and by amendment
that he had assailed the plaintiff's integrity in his personal
conduct without questioning his solvency, this was held to be
a new cause of action. -Mohr v. Lemle, 69 Alabama, 180.
See also Smnith v. Smith, 45 Penn. St. 403, where the same rule
was applied in a case of slander. Where a party alleged that
he was forcibly ejected from a train, and then by amendment
averred that he was misled by the agents of the corporation
into getting out at a wrong station, it was held to be a new
cause of action. A. G. S. R. v. nmith, 81 Alabama, 229.
Where a party declared upon a contract, under which he
claimed as assignee, and amended so as to rest on a contract
which he alleged was made directly with himself, it was held
a new cause of action. Biqgiyam v. Talbot, 63 Texas, 271.
An action of assumpsit was changed by amendment into an
action of debt; the conclusion was that the amendment was a
new cause of action. Crofford v. (ot/wan, 2 Sneed, 492. At
common law no action lies in favor of one peison for the
death of another; a statute allowed such an action to be
brought in the name of a personal representative ; by mistake
an action of this kind was brought in the name of the wife of
a person who had been killed; it was amended so as to make
the personal representative the nominal plaintiff ; -Held,that it
was a new cause of action. J7latley v. M. & C. Railroad, 9
leiskell, 230. A party filed a bill in equity against a corporation without alleging its dissolution, etc., and that he was
without remedy at law ; after he amended so as to insert all
the necessary allegations to give equity jurisdiction ; Held that
this also was a new cause of action. Dudley v. Price, 10 B.
Mon. 51. A bill was filed for the reeonveyance of land only,
and an amendment referred to certain slaves ; held, the allegations concerning the latter were another cause. C'listnasv.
Mitehel, 3 Iredell, 535.
In Georgia the doctrine has been applied to the very
condition of the pleadings here before us. There the court
said :

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLER.
Opinion of the Court.

"Whenever a suit is commenced in this State, and the
plaintiff relies for his right of action and his recovery upon
a foreign statute, he must plead said statute. If he pleads it
defectively, or shows in some way that he relies upon it, he
will be entitled, under our code, to amend by setting out the
statute, or such parts of it as he relies on, as was done in the
case of Railroad Oo. v. NXix, 68 Georgia, 572. If, however, he
commences his action, and relies upon his common law right,
we do not think he can amend his common law declaration by
setting out the statute, and relying upon that for his right to
sue and for his recovery. In this case the original declaration
was founded upon the common law right. Nothing was
even intimated therein to the effect that he relied upon the
statute. According to the decision in Cotton Mills v. Railroad
Co., and cases cited therein, made at this term, (10 S. E. Rep.
113,) this amendment would have added a new and distinct
cause of action. But it is argued by counsel for plaintiff in
error that all of the facts required by the Alabama statute to
be pleaded were already pleaded in the declaration, and that
simply to mention the statute in the amendment, and recite
the same facts therein, would not be a new cause of action.
While it may be true that all the facts required by the Alabama
statute had been set out in the declaration, still those facts alleged in the common law declaration were mere surplusage and
had no legal vitality, and would have been so regarded by the
court trying the case. It required the pleading of the statute to
give them any vitality at all. As we have seen, that statute
is not mentioned or intimated in the original declaration, and
hence to have allowed the amendment offered would have
been allowing the introduction of a new cause of action."
Bolton v. Georgia Pac. R. R. Co., 83 Georgia 659.
Other applications of the general principle may be found in
the cases of Bower v. Thomas, 69 Georgia, 47; Vance v. T]iomp,
so8n, 1 Sneed, 321 ; Railroadv. Foster, 10 Lea, 351; f'Iornas v,
Insurance Co., 108 Illinois, 91; Robertson v. Jcfllbenny, 59
Texas, 615; Martin v. Young, 85 N. C. 156; Guild v. Parker,
43 N. J. Law, 430 ; Hiatt v. Auld, 11 Kansas, 176 ; Rolling
)dill v. Monka, 107 Illinois, 340.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The question then is, does the second amended petition state
a new cause of action, so as to amount to a departure?. In
examining this question we must bear in mind what is the
common and general law governing the relation of master and
servant, which prevails also in Missouri. By this law a servant
cannot recover from a common master for injuries suffered
from the negligence of a fellow-servant. However, where
the master knowingly employs an incompetent servant, or
where he keeps a servant in his employ after he has acquired
knowledge of his incompetency, he is liable for damages
caused to a fellow-servant, resulting from such incompetency.
The statute of the State of Kansas which makes employers
operating a railroad liable to one servant for the neglect of
another, without regard to the rule of incompetency as above
stated, is clearly in derogation of the general law, which, as
we have said, prevails in Missouri where the action was originally brought. Corbett v. St. L., M. & S. Railroad,26 Mo. App.
621; Worleide v. M. C. &f . Co., 32 Mo. App. 367; Moran
v. Brown, 27 Mo. App. 487; Bowen v. C. B. d I. C. R. R.,
95 Missouri, 268; Stefen v. 3/ayer, 96 Missouri, 420.
The first petition manifestly proceeded exclusively on that
part of the general rule which holds the master liable who
with knowledge employs or retains an incompetent servant.
It made no reference to the Kansas statute, and did not
directly aver negligence on the part of the fellow-servant,
except in so far as this might be inferred from the averment
of his incompetency. The language is "that at the said time
Kline was wholly incompetent and unfit for the position he
occupied and the work he performed; that said incompetency
was wholly unknown to plaintiff at the said time, though
well known to defendant, and defendant negligently and
wrongfully kept and retained said Kline in its employ with
full knowledge of his incompetency." In fact when it charges
the cause of the injury, the petition seems to eliminate all
pretence of a right to recover, because of the fellow-servant's
negligence, as distinguished from his incompetency, by resting
the right upon the latter, for it says: " While engaged in
such business and without fault on the part of the plaintiff

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLER.
Opinion of the Court.

and through the negligence and mismanagement of defendant
in retaining and employing said Kline after knowing of his
incompetency, the said heavy iron dump was carelessly and
negligently thrown down and let fall."
It seems impossible to conceive of language which could
more directly rest the cause of action on the general or
common law of master and servant. And that this was the
reliance is shown by the fact that when a demurrer to the
petition was sustained, the amended petition for the first time
specifically added to the charge of incompetency of the fellowservant an unequivocal averment of his negligence. A suit
based upon a cause of action alleged to result from the
general law of master and servant was not a suit to enforce
an exceptional right given by the law of Kansas. If the
charge of incompetency in the first petition was not per se a
charge of negligence on the part of the fellow-servant, then
the averment of negligence apart from incompetency was
a departure from fact to fact, and, therefore, a new cause
of action. Be this as it may, as the first petition proceeded
under the general law of master and servant, and the second
petition asserted a right to recover in derogation of that
law, in consequence of the Kansas statute, it was a departure
from law to law. This conclusion is strengthened by the
fact that in most of the States the laws of other States are
treated as foreign laws, which must be pleaded and proven.
Sedgwick on Statutory and Constitutional Law, 363; Hempstead v. Reed, 6 Connecticut, 4S ; Swankc v. ]Nfnagle, 111
Indiana, 453 ; Root v. Merriweatker,8 Bush, 397. Although
this rule is not invariably adhered to, it is part of the law as
administered in the State of Missouri. Babcock v. Babcock,
46 Missouri, 243.
The suit here was brought in a Missouri court, and was
necessarily controlled by the law of that State.
It is argued, however, that, as all the facts necessary to
recovery were averred in the original petition, the subsequent
amendment set out no new cause of action in alleging the
Kansas statute. If the argument were sound, it would only
tend to support the proposition that there was no departure

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

or new cause of action from fact to fact, and would not in the
least meet the difficulty caused by the departure from law to
law. Even though it be conceded that all the facts necessary
to give a right to recover were contained in the original petition, as this predicated the assertion of that right on the general law of master and servant, and not upon the exceptional
rule established by the Kansas statute, it was a departure
from law to law. The most common, if not the invariable,
test of departure in law, as settled by the authorities referred
to, is a change from the assertion of a cause of action under
the common or general law to a reliance upon a statute giving
a particular or exceptional right. It is true that the Federal
courts take judicial notice of the laws of the several States.
Priestman v. United States, 4 Dall. 28 ; Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet.
607; Covington Drawbridge Co. v. Shepherd, 20 How. 227;
Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108 ; Janwtion,Railroadv. Bank of
Ashland, 12 Wall. 226. This rule, however, does not affect the
present suit, which was commenced in the court of Missouri.
Moreover, the departure which arises from relying, first, upon
the general or common law, and, in the second instance, on an
exceptional statute, is a question of pleading, and is not controlled by the law in regard to judicial notice of statutes,
which is a matter of evidence. The very origin of the rule in
regard to departure from law to law makes this obvious. The
English courts, from which our doctrine upon this subject is
derived, necessarily take judicial notice of acts of Parliament,
yet there a departure is made and a new cause of action is
asserted when a party who has at first relied upon the coinmon law afterwards rests his claim to recovery upon a statute.
The amended petition, which averred the statute of Kansas,
having asserted a new cause of action, the next question is,
was recovery under this petition barred by the Missouri statute
of limitations? The general rule is, that an amendment relates
back to the time of the filing of the original petition, so that
the running of the statute of limitations against the amendment is arrested thereby. But this rule, from its very reason,
applies only to an amendment which does not create a new
cause of action. The principle is, that, as the running of the

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY v. WYLER.
Opinion of the Court.

statute is interrupted, by the suit and summons, so far as the
cause of action then propounded is concerned, it interrupts as
to all matters subsequently alleged, by way of amendment,
which are part thereof. But where the cause of action relied
upon, in an amendment, is different from that originally
asserted, the reason of the rule ceases to exist, and hence the
rule itself no longer applies.
The doctrine on this subject is stated in the case of Sicard
v. Davis, 6 Pet. 124. There the plaintiff brought an action of
ejectment, in which he laid his demise as having been made
by Steven Sicard on January 30, 1815, and at the November
term of the court in 1821 he was given leave to amend by
laying his demise in the name of the heirs of the original
grantee of the lands, Joseph Phillips and others, to whom the
land had been conveyed before the execution of the deed
under which Sicard acquired his title. This court, speaking
through Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, said that "limitations
might be pleaded to the second allegation, though not to the
first, because the second count in the declaration being on a
demise from a different party asserting a different title, was
not distinguishable, so far as respects the bar of the act of
limitations from a new action."
The text-writers have uniformly recognized this principle.
In Wood on Limitations of Actions, p. 14, note 4, it is
said: "If, however, a new declaration or complaint is filed,
setting up a new cause of action, the statute runs until such
new declaration is filed, and may be pleaded thereto."
See also Buswell on Limitations, p. 515. In Mohr v. Lemle,
supra, the Alabama court thus speaks:
"The latitude of amendment allowed the plaintiff cannot
be permitted to work injustice to the defendant, or to deprive
him of any just and rightful defence. The plaintiff may
introduce a new cause of action by amendment; but such
amendment cannot have relation to the commencement of the
suit, so as to avoid the bar of the statute of limitations, if the
statute would operate a bar to a new suit commenced for that
cause of action, at the time of making the amendment. The
whole doctrine of relation rests in a fiction of law, adopted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

subserve, and not to defeat right and justice. When the
amendment introduces a new right, or new matter, not within
the lisendens, and the issue between the parties; if at the
time of its introduction, as to such new right or matter, the
statute of limitations has operated a bar, the defendant may
insist upon the benefit of the statute, and to him it is as available, as if the amendment were a new and independent suit."
So again in the same State, in one of the cases already
cited, the court said: "While a new cause of action may be
introduced by amendment, the established limitation on the
operation of its relation to the commencement of the suit is,
that if the amendment introduces new matter or a different
cause of action not within the lis pendens, as to which the
statute of limitations has operated a bar at the time of making the amendment, it is as available as if the amendment
were a new and independent suit." Ala. C. S. R. B. Co.
v. Smith, 81 Alabama, 229.
Other applications of the doctrine may be found in the following cases: Toby v. Allen, 3 Kansas, 399; Iialt v. Auld,
11 Kansas, 176; Bolling Mill v. Jlfonka, 107 Illinois, 340;
Croford v. Coth ran, 2 Sneed, 492; Flatley v. M. &CC. Railroad, 9 Heiskell, 230; Dudley v. Price's Administrator, 10
B. Mon. 84; Buntlin v. C. R. 1. &f P. r. R., 41 Fed. Rep.
744; A. &. P. Co. v. Laird, 58 Fed. Rep. 760.
Nor do we think this question is in any way affected by the
fact that the second amended petition was filed by consent.
The consent covered the right to file it, but did not waive the
defences thereto when filed. If the interruption to the running of the statute created by the first summons applied only
to the cause of action therein set out, it would have required
an express renunciation of the benefit of the statute, which
had fully operated upon the new cause of action set out in the
amended petition -when that petition was filed. In Sicard's
case, supra, although the amendment had been filed by leave
of court, and was, therefore, a part of the pleadings, it was
held that the bar of the statute applied to the new cause of
action alleged in the amendment, and the rule there enforced
is followed in the other cases cited.
Judgment reversed.

