ERIE RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Statement of the Case.

in a United States court. To this there was a special replication alleging that the proceedings in such former suit were
coram non judice, because the record did not show that the
complainants and defendant in that suit were citizens of different States, and the court, through Mr. Justice Washington,
said: "This reasoning proceeds upon an incorrect view of the
character and jurisdiction of the inferior courts of the United
States. They are all of limited jurisdiction, but they are not,
on that account, inferior courts in the technical sense of those
words, whose judgments, taken alone, are to be disregarded.
If the jurisdiction be not alleged in the proceedings, their judgments and decrees are erroneous, and may, upon a writ of error
or appeal, be reversed for that cause. But they are not absolute nullities." Evers v. Watson, 156 U. S. 527. Accordingly
the decree was held to be a valid bar of the subsequent suit.
In view, then, of the facts as found, and reading the statute
of Michigan in the light of the decisions cited, we are of opinion that the court committed no error, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TIE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 263.

Argued April 5, 1895.

Decided May 27, 1895.

A statute of Pennsylvania imposing a tax upon the tolls received by
the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company from other

railroad companies, for the use by them respectively of so much of its
railroad and tracks as lies in the State of Pennsylvania, for the passage
over them of trains owned and hauled by such companies respectively,
is a valid tax, and is not in conflict with the interstate commerce clause

of the Constitution when applied to goods so transported from without
the State of Pennsylvania.

THE New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company,
a corporation of the State of New York, doing business in the
State of Pennsylvania, appealed from a settlement of account
made by the Auditor General of the latter State, assessing

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

certain taxes, to the court of common pleas of Dauphin
County, Pennsylvania. The case was heard by agreement
without a jury, the court finding both the law and the facts.
The following were the findings of fact:
"1. The defendant is a corporation of the State of New
York, engaged in the business of transporting freight and
passengers. Its railroad runs through the county of Susquehanna, in this State.
"2. It leases and operates as one of its branches, a railroad
lying wholly within this State, known as the Jefferson branch,
which extends from Carbondale to a connection with the defendant's main line in said county of Susquehanna. At Carbondale the Jefferson branch connects with the railroad of the
Delaware and Hudson Canal Company, a corporation engaged
in mining and transporting coal, and also in transporting
freight and passengers.
"3. The canal company makes use of the Jefferson branch
in the manner, for the purposes, and upon the terms specified
in an agreement made April 7, 1885. This agreement is made
a part of this finding.
"4. Under the eighth clause of said agreement, the canal
company paid to the defendant for the transportation of coal
and merchandise during the six months ending June 30, 1889,
the sum of $69,462.11. Of this amount, $69,100 was in respect of coal and merchandise transported by the canal company over the said Jefferson branch in transit to points in other
States; the said coal and merchandise, when taken upon the
cars and upon said Jefferson branch, being destined and intended for shipment by continuous transportation upon a
single way bill, from points in Pennsylvania to points in
other States, and having been actually so transported to, and
delivered at, points in other States; and $362.11 was paid in
respect of coal and merchandise taken up and put down within
the State of Pennsylvania. The canal company has paid to
the State a tax upon its gross receipts for the transportation
of the coal and merchandise in respect of which it paid to
the defendant the said sum of $362.11.
" 5. Under the sixteenth clause of said agreement, the canal

ERIE RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Statement of the Case.

company paid to the defendant the sum of $2000, of which
$1000 was made up of half fares collected from local passengers taken up and put down within the State of Pennsylvania,
and $1000 was in respect of passengers carried interstate by
continuous transportation into, out of, or through the State
of Pennsylvania.
" 6. The defendant also leases and operates, as one of its
branches, a railroad known as the Buffalo, Bradford, and Pittsburgh branch, extending from Buttsville or Gilesville, Pennsylvania, to a connection with defendant's main line at Carrollton,
in the State of New York. At Crawford Junction, Pennsylvania, a point on this branch, the railroad of the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company (formerly the Rochester
and Pittsburgh Railroad Company) connects with said branch.
This last-mentioned corporation is engaged in the transportation of freight and passengers.
"7. The Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company makes use of part of the Buffalo, Bradford and Pittsburgh branch in the manner, for the purpose, and upon the
terms specified in an agreement made October 20, 1882, which
agreement is made a part of this finding. The part used lies
partly in this State and partly in the State of New York.
"8. Under this agreement the amount paid to the defendant by the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company, during the six months ending June 30, 1889, was $2700,
being one semi-annual payment. For the same period the
Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company paid to
the State a tax upon its gross receipts, so far as the same were
derived from transportation between points both of which are
within the State of Pennsylvania.
" 9. This settlement taxes the entire gross receipts of the defendant from its business in Pennsylvania for the six months
ending June 30, 1889, under section 7 of the act of 1879, and
includes therein the sums paid by.the canal company and by
the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company.
" 10. On February 10, 1890, the defendant paid to the
State the whole amount demanded, except the tax upon said
sums of $71,462.11 and $2700."
VOL. CLVII-28

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Statement of the Case,

The conclusions of law were as follows:
"1. The rentals paid to the defendant by the canal company
and by the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company are 'receipts for tolls' within the meaning of section 7
of the act of 1879.
" 2. The taxation of such receipts does not offend against
article '9, section 1 of the Pennsylvania constitution, or against
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
"3. Such taxation is not, in the case before us, double taxation.
"4. The toll received by the defendant from the Buffalo,
Rochester and Pittsburgh Railway Company should be apportioned, and only so much thereof be taxed as represents the
sum paid for the use of that part of defendant's branch which
lies within the State.
" The sum due the Commonwealth is as follows:
Tax eight-tenths of 1 per cent upon $71,402.11 paid
by the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company.... $571 69
And upon $1350 paid by the Buffalo, Rochester and
10 60
Pittsburgh Railway Company ..................
31 63
Interest ........................................
29 11
Attorney General's commission ...................
$643 03
T otal ....................................
for which amount judgment is directed to be entered."
Upon exception the court made an additional finding as
follows:
"That portion of defendant's railroad, known as the Buffalo,
Bradford and Pittsburgh branch, extending from Buttsville
or Gilesville, Pennsylvania, to a connection with defendant's
main line at Carrollton, in the State of New York, as shown
in findings of fact No. 6, is used by the Buffalo, Rochester
and Pittsburgh Railway Company for the purposes of interstate transportation exclusively."
Judgment was entered in pursuance of the findings of fact
and law, from which an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, and the judgment was by that court

ERIE RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmed, and to that judgment a writ of error was sued out
from the Supreme Court of the United States.
ilr.

X. E. Olmsted for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. James A. Stranahan for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The legislature of Pennsylvania, by a revenue statute approved June 7, 1879, enacted that certain enumerated classes
of companies, including railroad companies, whether incorporated by or under any law of the Commonwealth, or whether
incorporated by any other State, doing business in the Commonwealth, and owning, operating, or leasing to or from any
other corporation, any railroad, canal, pipe line, slack-water
navigation, or street passenger railway, or other device for
the transportation of freight or passengers, shall pay to the
state treasurer, for the use of the Commonwealth, a tax of
eight-tenths of one per centum upon the gross receipts of said
company for tolls and transportation.
In the leading case of Boyle v. Pkiladelphia & Reading
Railroad Co., 54 Penn. St. 310, 314, the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, through Mr. Justice Strong, then a justice of
that court, thus defined the term "tolls," as used in the tax
laws of that State: "Toll is a tribute or custom paid for passage, not for carriage -always something taken for a liberty
or privilege, not for a service; and such is the common understanding of the word. Nobody supposes that tolls taken by
a turnpike or canal company include charges for transportation, or that they are anything more than an excise demanded
and paid for the privilege of using the way."
This definition was subsequently approved in the case of
Pennsylvania Railroad v. Sly, 65 Penn. St. 205, and was
followed by the trial court, and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the present case. A construction or meaning
attributed to the terms of a state statute by the courts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

such State will, of course, be adopted by this court when
called upon to decide questions arising under such legislation;
and we shall accordingly assume in the present case that the
moneys received by the New York, Lake Erie and Western
Railroad Company from the Delaware and Hudson Canal
Company and from the Rochester and Pittsburgh Railroad
Company for their use of the railroad of the former company
were tolls within the meaning of the statute of 1879.
It was found as a fact by the court below that the New
York company leased and operated as one of its branches a
railroad lying wholly within the State of Pennsylvania, and
that under an agreement between it and the Delaware and
Hudson Canal Company the latter paid the former for the use
of its railroad during the six months ending June 30, 1889,
the sum of $69,462.11. This amount became payable under
the eighth section of said agreement, which was in the following terms:
"The canal company shall pay to the railroad company
trackage on the Jefferson branch of the New York, Lake Erie
and Western Railroad to the amount of one-fourth of one cent
per ton per mile; but the total amount in any one year shall
not be less than $120,000, and the same shall be payable
monthly."
The canal company furnished its own cars and locomotives,
and the moneys paid to the New York company were tolls
or rentals for the use of its railroad. Of the amount paid as
aforesaid, the sum of $69,100 was in respect of coal and merchandise destined and transported to points in other States,
and $36,210 was paid in respect of coal and merchandise taken
up and put down within the State of Pennsylvania.
The precise question, then, for our solution is, whether the
State of Pennsylvania can validly impose taxes on tolls paid
by one company to another for the use of its railroad, where
the company paying the tolls is engaged in the transportation
of merchandise from points within the State to points beyond.
It is, of course, obvious that what is objected to is not the
payment of the tolls, for they arise by virtue of the contract
between the companies, but the imposition of taxes thereon.

ERIE RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that such taxes tend to increase the rents or
tolls demanded and received by the company owning the
road, and thus constitute a burthen upon transportation and
commerce between the States.
In support of this contention numerous decisions of this
court are cited, in which it has been held that state statutes
which levy taxes upon gross receipts of railroads for the carriage of freights and passengers into, out of, or through the
State put a burthen upon commerce among the States, and
are therefore void.
It is needless to review the cases cited, because we regard
the proposition they are quoted to sustain as thoroughly established; but is the priuciple of those cases applicable to
this?
Undoubtedly, state taxation of interstate commerce, directly
placed upon the articles or subjects of such commerce, or upon
the necessary means of their transportation, may be used to
restrict or regulate such commerce, and, more than once, this
court has been obliged to pronounce invalid state legislation
respecting such matters. On the other hand, we have frequently had occasion to show that the existence of Federal
supervision over interstate commerce and the consequent obligation upon the Federal courts to protect that right of control
from encroachment on the part of the States, are not inconsistent with the power of each State to control its own internal commerce, and to tax the franchises, property, or business
of its own corporations engaged in such commerce, nor with
its power to tax foreign corporations on account of their property within the State.
Owing to the paramount necessity of maintaining untrammelled freedom of commercial intercourse between the citizens
of the different States, and to the fact that so frequently
transportation and telegraph companies transact both local
and interstate business, it has been found difficult to clearly
define the line where the state and the Federal powers meet.
That difficulty has been chiefly felt by this court in dealing
with questions of taxation, and is shown by the not infrequent
dissents by members of the court when the effort has been

OOTOBER TEiM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

made to formulate a general statement of the law applicable
to such questions.
It is unnecessary, at this time, to again review the cases, or
to undertake to show that, while the facts and circumstances
that distinguish one case from another may have led to some
difference in the mode of stating the law, there is yet a substantial uniformity in the decisions. It is sufficient for our
present purposes to refer to the recent case of P~ostal Telegraph Company v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 695, where many
of the cases were considered, and where the general results
reached are thus stated:
"It is settled that where by way of duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of interstate commerce, or on the
receipts derived therefrom, or on 'the occupation or business
of carrying it on, a tax is levied by a State on interstate coinmerce, such taxation amounts to a regulation of such commerce and cannot be sustained. But property in a State
belonging to a corporation, whether foreign or domestic, engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, may be taxed, or
a tax may be imposed on the corporation on account of its
property within a State, and may take the form of a tax for
the privilege of exercising its franchises within the State, if
the ascertainment of the amount is made dependent in fact
on the value of its property situated within the State, (the
exaction, therefore, not being susceptible of exceeding the sum
which might be leviable directly thereon,) and if payment
be not made a condition precedent to the right to carry on
the business, but its enforcement left to the ordinary means
devised for the collection of taxes. The corporation is thus
made to bear its proper proportion of the burdens of the government under whose protection it conducts its operations,
while interstate commerce is not in itself subjected to restraint
or impediment."
Coming to apply these settled principles to the case in hand
we find no difficulty.
The tax complained of is not laid on the transportation of
the subjects of interstate commerce, or on receipts derived
,therefrom, or on the occupation or business of carrying it on.

ERIE RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

It is a tax laid upon the corporation on account of its property
in a railroad, and which tax is measured by a reference to the
tolls received. The State has not sought to interfere with the
agreement between the contracting parties in the matter of
establishing the tolls. Their power to fix the terms upon
which the one company may grant to the other the right to
use its road is not denied or in any way controlled.
It is argued that the imposition of a tax on tolls might lead
to increasing them in an effort to throw their burthen on the
carrying company. Such a result is merely conjectural, and,
at all events, too remote and indirect to be an interference
with interstate commerce. The interference with the commercial power must be direct, and not the mere incidental
effect of the requirement of the usual proportional contribution to public maintenance.
One of the assignments of error is based on the finding that
"that portion of defendant's railroad, known as the Buffalo,
Bradford and Pittsburgh branch, extending from Buttsville
or Gilesville, Pennsylvania, to a connection with defendant's
main line at Carrollton in the State of New York, as shown in
findings of fact No. 6, is used by the Buffalo, Rochester and
Pittsburgh Railway Company for purposes of interstate transportation exclusively," and it is claimed that the court erred
in apportioning the tax according to the portions of the railroad within and without the State.
We do not understand that any objection is made as to the
fairness of the apportionment, but the claim is that, as all the
business done over the road by the lessee party was interstate
commerce, it was not competent for the State to tax the tolls
received by the company which owned the road. Thus understood, the legal question is the same with that which arose
under the contract between the defendant company and the
Delaware and Hudson Canal Company, and which is hereinbefore considered.
The fact that the same corporation which owns the track in
Pennsylvania owns likewise a track in New York, does not
deprive such company of the right to receive tolls for the use
of that part of its road that lies in Pennsylvania, nor the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of its right to tax such portions of the tolls; and this is what
the court below decided.
In Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217, it was
held that a state statute which requires every corporation,
person, or association operating a railroad within the State to
pay an annual tax, to be determined by the amount of its
gross transportation receipts, and further provides that, when
applied to a railroad lying partly within and partly without
the State, or to one operated as a part of a line or system
extending beyond the State, the tax shall be equal to the proportion of the gross receipts in the State, to be ascertained in
the manner provided by the statute, does not conflict with the
Constitution of the United States, and that the tax thereby
imposed upon a foreign corporation operating a line of railway, partly within and partly without the State, is one within
the power of the State to levy.
So, in the case of Pittsburgh &o. Railway Co. v. -Backrus,
154 U. S. 421, the validity of a state tax law, whereby a railroad which traversed several States was valued for the purposes of taxation by taking that part of the value of the entire
road which was measured by the proportion of the length of
the particular part in that State to that of the whole road,
was upheld.
Our conclusion is that the Federal questions involved in the
case were properly decided by the court below, and its judg.
ment is accordingly

Afflrmed.

b

AIRn. JUSTICE HARLAN

TIOGA RAILROAD
LAKE

ERIE

AND

dissented.

COMPANY

WESTERN

V.

COAL

IPENNSYLVANIA.
AND

RAILROAD

NEW YORK,
COMPANY

V.

NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA AND OHIO RAILError to the Supreme Court
ROAD COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.
of the State of Pennsylvania. MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS delivered the
PENNSYLVANIA.

opinion of the court.

The foregoing cases, Nos. 264, 265, and 266,

October term, 1894, are, so far as the Federal questions involved

