OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Appellants.

without abuse of its discretion might have allowed the question. But the record shows no such state of case.
Other questions have been discussed by counsel, but they
are not of sufficient gravity to require notice at our hands.
We perceive no reason to doubt that the accused was fairly
tried. No error of law having been committed by the court
below, the judgment is
Affirmed.

ABRAHAM v. ORDWAY.
APPEAL FIOM THE SUPREME COUir OF THE DISTRIOT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 74.

Submitted April 5, 1895. -Decided

May 2, 1895.

Independently of any limitation for the guidance of courts of law, equity,
may, in the exercise of its own inherent powers, refuse relief where it is
sought after undue and unexplained delay, and when injustice would be
done in the particular case by granting the relief asked.
This case is peculiarly suited for the application of this principle, as tile
plaintiffs claim that the lands in dispute became, after the divorce of
Elizabeth Abraham from Burnstine, her legal and statutory as distinguished from her equitable separate estate, and that the trust deed to
Norris, by sale under which the defendant acquired title, was absolutely
void, while it appears that nineteen years elapsed after the execution of that
deed before this suit was brought, that Elizabeth Abraham was divorced
from her second husband thirteen years before the institution of these
proceedings, that she paid interest on the debt secured by the trust deed
for about eight years without protest; that she did not pretend to have
been ignorant of the sale under the trust deed, nor to have been unaw're
that the purchaser went into possession immediately, and continuously
thereafter received the rents and profits; and on these facts it is held that
the plaintiffs and those under whom they assert title have been guilty
of such laches as to have lost all right to invoke the aid of a court of
equity.

Tuh case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. II. 0. Claughton -and _MP. Franklin H. Mackey for
appellants.

ABRAHAM v. OIDWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. J. Darlivylon for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HAILAN delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 22d day of May, 1869, Bernard Burnstine - his wife
Elizabeth uniting with him in the deed -conveyed to Levi
Abraham certain real estate in the city of Washington in
trust for the sole and separate use of the wife, with power in
her at any time to .ispose of the property in whole or in part,
or to encumber it by deed or by will, or by other instrument
in the nature of a last will and testament.
The deed provided that the trustee should permit the wife,
her executors, administrators, and assigns, to have, hold, use,
possess, and enjoy the trust property; to receive its rents,
issues, and profits as if she were a fene sole; and if she disposed of it the trustee was not to be responsible therefor,
nor for the application of its proceeds.
The deed upon its face recites that it was made pursuant
to a mutual agreement between the grantors to live separately
and apart from each other during their lives.
Subsequently, on the 10th of May, 1870, Mrs. Burnstine
obtained a divorce, and shortly thereafter, June 24, 1870,
married one Solomon Caro.
On the 24th of September, 1870, Mrs. Caro executed to
Harriet Ordway a promissory note for $3000 payable in two
years from that date, with interest at 10 per cent. To secure
its payment, Levi Abraham, the trustee in the Burnstine deed
- Mrs. Caro uniting with himexecuted to John E. Norris,
trustee, a deed covering the above real estate. This deed
recited that the note was given to secure the just indebtedness
of Mrs. Caro to Harriet Ordway. But the bill alleges and
the demurrer admits that it was, in fact, given for money borrowed from the payee by Solomon Caro. This last deed was
in trust that Mrs. Caro, her heirs and assigns, should have,
hold, use, and enjoy the premises, and their rents, issues, and
profits to take, receive, and apply to her own use until some
default or failure occurred in the payment of the debt or
some part of the debt due to Mrs. Ordway. It also provided
VOL. cr.vin--27

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

that upon the written request of the latter, as the legal holder
of the above note, the trustee should proceed to sell and dispose of the premises, or so much thereof as might be deemed
necessary, at public sale to the highest bidder, upon such
terms and conditions as the trustee deemed best for the interest of all parties concerned, giving due notice of sale.
On the 21st of December, 1874, Elizabeth Caro joined with
Levi Abraham in a deed conveying the real estate in question
to Esther Rebecca Abraham in fee.
Caro having abandoned his wife, she obtained from the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, on the 20th of
October, 1876, a decree of divorce and a restoration of her
maiden name of Elizabeth Abraham. The latter paid interest on the above note for about eight years. But having
ceased to make such payments, the property was sold at
public auction on the 6th of January, 1879, pursuant to the
terms of the Norris deed of trust; and on the same day
Norris executed to Mrs. Ordway, the purchaser, a deed conveying to her the property in fee. After this purchase, Mrs.
Ordway took possession of the property, and received the
rents and profits thereof.
Elizabeth Rebecca Abraham, the grantee in the deed of
December 21, 1874, died August 10, 1886, intestate, leaving
the appellants as her only heirs at law.
Levi Abraham, the trustee, died on the 28th of April, 1876.
Norris died on the 4th day of February, 1887.
The appellants brought this suit upon the theory that the
above note having been executed by Elizabeth Abraham while
she was a married woman, the wife of Caro, was void; that
the deed of trust to Norris was, for that reason, of no effect
as security for its payment; and that the conveyance by
Norris to Mrs. Ordway created a resulting trust for the benefit of the plaintiffs.
The prayer of the bill was for a decree requiring the defendant Harriet Ordway to convey all her right, title, and interest in the estate in question to the plaintiffs, and account to
them for rents and profits.
The defendants demurred upon the ground that the plain-

ABRAHAM v. ORDWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs did not by their bill present a case entitling them to
relief in a court of equity. The demurrer was sustained and
the bill dismissed. That decree was affirmed in the general
term.
After the decree below was perfected, the defendant Harriet
Ordway died, and the present appellees are her devisees.
Counsel express gratification that an opportunity is presented in this case for the construction of what is known as
the Married Woman's act of April 10, 1869, in force in the
District of Columbia, particularly the section providing that
"any married woman may contract and sue, and be sued in
her own name, in all matters having relation to her sole and
separate property, in the same manner as if she were unmarried." Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. ยง 729.
We do not deem it necessary at this time to consider the
scope of that act, nor to determine whether it was correctly
interpreted in Schneider v. Garland, 1 Mackey, 350. The case
can be disposed of upon a ground that does not involve the
construction of that statute, and which cannot be ignored,
whatever conclusion might be reached as to the power of
Elizabeth Abraham, while she was the wife of Solomon Caro,
to charge the estate in question with the payment of the $3000
note. That ground is, that the plaintiffs and those under
whom they assert title have been guilty of such laches as to
have lost all right to invoke the aid of a court of equity.
Nearly nineteen years elapsed after the execution of the deed
to Norris before the present suit was brought. And although
the plaintiff Elizabeth was the wife of Caro when that deed
was made, she was divorced in 1876, nearly thirteen years
before the institution of these proceedings. She paid interest
on the debt of $3000 for about eight years, without, so far as
the bill discloses, protesting that she was not legally bound to
do so. Some of those payments must have been made after
her divorce from Caro, and while she was an unmarried
woman. She did not pretend to have been ignorant of the
public sale, under the Norris deed, at which Mrs. Ordway
purchased the property at the price of twenty-seven hundred
and fifty dollars. Nor did she pretend to have been unaware,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time, of the fact that Mrs. Ordway, after her purchase,
went into possession and continuously received the rents and
profits of the estate.
It appears also on the face of the bill that in 1874 Levi Abraham and the plaintiff Elizabeth, then Elizabeth Caro, conveyed
this property to Esther Rebecca Abraham. Whether this
deed was recorded or not the bill does not state. But the
grantee in that deed did not die until August 10, 1886, nearly
twelve years after the conveyance to her, nearly seventeen
years after the date of the deed to Norris, and more than
seven years after the sale and conveyance to Mrs. Ordway
under that deed. It does not appear that Esther Rebecca
Abraham, in her lifetime, ever disputed the title acquired by
Mrs. Ordway under the sale made by Norris, trustee. No
explanation is given in the bill of her failure to bring suit.
The property in dispute, it may well be assumed, has
greatly appreciated in value since Mrs. Ordway's purchase,
which was more than ten years prior to this suit. It is now
too late to ask assistance from a court of equity. The relief
sought cannot be given consistently with the principles of
justice, or without encouraging such delay in the assertion of
rights as ought not to be tolerated by courts of equity.
Whether equity will interfere in cases of this character must
depend upon the special circumstances of each case. Sometimes the courts act in obedience to statutes of limitations ;
sometimes in analogy to them. But it is now well settled
that, independently of any limitation prescribed for the guidance of courts of law, equity may, in the exercise of its own
inherent powers, refuse relief where it is sought after undue
and unexplained delay, and when injustice would be done, in
the particular case, by granting the relief asked. It will, in
such cases, decline to extricate the plaintiff from the position
in which he has inexcusably placed himself, and leave him to
such remedies as he may have in a court of law. Wagner v.
Baird, 7 How. 234, 238; Iarwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall.
78, 81; Sudlivan v. Portland&c. Railroad, 94 U. S. 806, 811;
Brown v. County of Buena Vista, 94 U. S. 157, 159; flayward v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 611, 617; Lansdale v. Smith,

ABRAHAM v. ORDWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

106 U. S. 391, 392; Speidel v. lienrici, 120 U. S. 377, 387.;
Bichard8 v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183, 188.
The present suit is peculiarly one for the application of this
principle. The contention of the appellants is that under the
Married Woman's act of 1869 the lands in question became,
after the divorce of the plaintiff Elizabeth from Burnstine,
her legal and statutory, as distinguished from her equitable,
separate estate, and that the deed to Norris which secured
the $3000 note was absolutely void, because that note was not
given by Mrs. Caro in respect of any matter "having relation
to her sole and separate property." Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. ยง
729. It is conceded that if that note, in fact, and within the
meaning of that act, had " relation" to the estate here in dispute, then the Norris deed was valid as security for the debt
evidenced by the note. But whether the debt was of that
,character depended -unless
the recitals in the Norris deed
on that point are not in themselves conclusive-, upon such
proof, in respect to the origin of the debt and its relation to
the estate conveyed by that deed, as could be made, after
nearly twenty years had elapsed from the date of the deed,
and after the death both of Levi Abraham, the grantor, and
of Norris, the grantee. One of the grounds upon which courts
of equity refuse relief where the plaintiff is guilty of laches is
the injustice of imposing upon the defendant the necessity of
making proof of transactions long past, in order to protect
himself in the enjoyment of rights which, during a considerable period, have passed unchallenged by his adversary, with
full knowledge of all the circumstances. The principle has
been thus stated by this court: " Length of time necessarily
obscures all human evidence, and deprives parties of the
means of ascertaining the nature of original transactions; it
operates by way of presumption in favor of the party in possession. Long acquiescence and laches by parties out of possession are productive of much hardship and injustice to others,
and cannot be excused but by showing some actual hindrance
or impediment caused by the fraud or concealment of the party
in possession, which will appeal to the conscience of the chancellor." Wagner v. Baird, 7 How. 258.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellants insist that, as this suit relates to land, the
doctrine of laches, as announced in the above cases, has no
application. There is no foundation in the adjudged cases for
this suggestion. It is true, as stated by counsel, that in
Wagner v. Baird, just cited, the court says that in many
cases courts of equity "act upon the analogy of the limitations
at law; as where a legal title would in ejectment be barred
by twenty years' adverse possession," and " w ill act upon the
like limitation, and apply it to all cases of relief sought upon
equitable titles, or claims touching real estate." But it proceeds to say: "But there is a defence peculiar to courts of
equity, founded on lapse of time and the staleness of the claim,
where no statute of limitations distinctly governs the case. In
such cases courts of equity often act upon their own inherent
doctrine of discouraging, for the peace of society, antiquated
demands, by refusing to interfere where there has been gross
laches in prosecuting rights, or long acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights. 2 Story Eq. ยง 1520. A court of equity
will not give relief against conscience or where a party has
slept upon his rights."
Allore v. Jewell, 94 U. S. 506, is also cited by appellants.
That was a suit to cancel a conveyance of land upon the
ground that the grantor was incapable from mental weakness
of comprehending the nature of the transaction. Six years
elapsed before suit, and it was objected that the suit could not
for that reason be maintained. The court said that there was
no statutory bar in the case, and the relief asked was granted
because, under the particular circumstances of that case, application for relief must be held to have been seasonably made,
and because the facts justified the cancellation of the deed.
Counsel rely with some confidence upon the following observations in Wehrman v. Conklin, 155 U. S.314, 326: "If the
plaintiff at law has brought his action within the period fixed
by the statute of limitations, no court can deprive him of his
right to proceed. If the statute limits him to twenty years,
and he brings his action after the lapse of nineteen years and
eleven months, he is as much entitled as matter of law to
maintain it as though he had brought it the day after his

CUTLER v. HUSTON.
Statement of the Case.

cause of action accrued." That this court did not intend to
lay down any such rule as the appellants contend for, is quite
evident from the following sentences, not quoted by them, but
which immediately precede those above quoted: "It is scarcely
necessary to say that complainants [in the equity suit] cannot
avail themselves as a matter of law of the laches of the plaintiff
in the ejectment suit. Though a good defence in equity, laches
is no defence at law."
The claim of the appellants is without merit, and the
decree is
A irmed.

CUTLER v. HUSTON.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT
WESTERN
No. 229.

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

Argued March 27, 1895. -

Decided May 27, 1895.

On the 12th of July, 1889, S. executed to C. a chattel mortgage in Michigan
to secure his indebtedness to him and to a bank of which he was president, and the mortgage was placed by the mortgagee in his safe. On the
17th of August, 1889, H. having no knowledge of this mortgage, purchased for a valuable consideration a note of S. On the 29th of August,
1889, C. caused the chattel mortgage to be placed on record. On the
5th of August, 1890, H. instituted garnishee proceedings against C.
averring that he had possession and control of property of S. by a title
which was void as to the creditors of S. The garnishee answered setting up title under the chattel mortgage. The court below held that in
consequence of the failure to file the chattel mortgage, and of the fact
that H. became a creditor of S. in the interim, the chattel mortgage was
void under the laws of Michigan as to H., and gave judgment accordingly. Held, That in this that court committed no error.
An unreversed judgment of a circuit court is not a nullity, and cannot be
collaterally attacked.

RIGDON HUSTON, who died in May, 1877, left a will, by
which bequests were made to several persons, among whom
was the testator's son, Theodore Iuston, the husband of the
defendant in error. The executors appointed by the will were
the testator's brother, John Huston, and his sons, Charles R.
Huston and the said Theodore Huston.

