JOHNSON v. SAYRE.
Statement of the Case.

JOHNSON v. SAYRE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 871. Argued April 18,1S95. -Decided

May 6, 1895.

In the Fifth Article of Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, providing that " no person shall be held to answer for a capital,
or otherwise infamous crime, unless on presentment or indictment of a
grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the
militia, when in actual service in time of war or public danger," the
words " when in actual service in time of war or public danger" apply
to the militia only.
A paymaster's clerk in the navy, regularly appointed, and assigned to duty
on a receiving ship, is a person in the naval service of the United
States, subject to be tried and convicted, and to be sentenced to imprisonment, by a general court martial, for a violation of section 1624 of
the Revised Statutes.
Article 43 of the Articles for the Government of the Navy, (Rev. Stat.
§ 1624,) requiring the accused to be furnished with a copy of the charges
and specifications "at the time he is put under arrest," refers to his
arrest for trial by court martial; and, if lie is already in custody to await
the result of a court of inquiry, is sufficiently complied with by delivering the copy to him immediately after the Secretary of the Navy has
informed him of that result, and has ordered a court martial to convene
to try him.
The decision and sentence of a court martial, having jurisdiction of the
person accused and of the offence charged, and acting within the scope
of its lawful powers, cannot be reviewed or set aside by writ of habeas,
corplus.

THIS Was an appeal from an order upon a writ of htabeas corpus, discharging David B. Sayre, a paymaster's clerk in the
navy, assigned to duty on the United States receiving ship
Franklin, from the custody of Captain Mortimer L. Johnson,
the commander of that ship, under a sentence of a naval court
martial. The case appeared by the record to be as follows:
On July 6, 1893, the Secretary of the Navy signed and sent
to Sayre an appointment in these terms : "Upon the nomination of Paymaster James E. Cann, U. S. N., you are hereby

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

appointed a paymaster's clerk in the United States Navy, for
duty on board of the U. S. R. S. Franklin. Enclosed is a
blank form of acceptance for your signature, also a blank
oath of office, which you will duly execute and return with
your letter of acceptance to the department; having done
which, you will proceed to the navy yard, Norfolk, Virginia,
and repqrt to the commandant, on the 15th instant, for duty."
On July 10, 1893, Sayre took the oath of office, and returned
it to the Secretary of the Navy, with an acceptance in these
terms: "I hereby accept the appointment of paymaster's clerk,
dated July 6, 1893, conferred on me; and do hereby oblige and
subject myself, during my service as paymaster's clerk, to comply with and be obedient to such laws, regulations and discipline of the navy as are now in force, or that may be enacted
by Congress, or established by other competent authority; and
herewith enclose oath of office duly executed."
Sayre accordingly entered upon the performance of his
duties as paymaster's clerk, under Paymaster Cann, on board
the Franklin, which was the receiving ship at the navy yard
in Norfolk, Virginia. Cann, besides being paymaster of the
Franklin, was paymaster at Port Royal, South Carolina, and
of the monitors at Richmond, Virginia; and was therefore
obliged to be away from the Franklin several days in each
month.
On October 10, 1894, Sayre was put under arrest, by Captain
Mortimer L. Johnson, commanding the Franklin, to await the
investigation of a charge of embezzlement, and was thereafter
held in custody. On October 13, the Secretary of the Navy
ordered a court of inquiry to convene on October 16, at the
navy yard in Norfolk, for the purpose of inquiring into the
method in which the pay department of the Franklin had been
conducted during the time covered by the service of Paymaster Caun on board of her; and directed that Sayre be held in
custody, but be permitted to attend the court of inquiry, and
to consult with counsel and inspect the ship's papers. He was
accordingly brought before the court of inquiry from day to
day until October 19. The court of inquiry recommended
that he be tried by court martial on the charge of embezzle,

-JOHNSON v. SAYRE.
Statement of the Case.

ment; and he was informed of this by a letter to him from
the Secretary of the Navy of October 25.4
On October 25, the Secretary of the Navy also ordered a
general court martial to convene at the navy yard in Norfolk
on October 30, for the trial of Sayre, and of such other persons as might be legally brought before it.
The charge against Sayre was of "embezzlement, in violation of article fourteen of the Articles for the Government
of the Navy," with a specification that "David B. Sayre, a
pay clerk in the United States Navy, attached to and serving
as such on board the United States receiving ship Franklin,
at the navy yard, Norfolk, Virginia, having, on various dates
between" July 15, 1893, and October 10, 1894, "been entrusted
by Paymaster James E. Cann, United States Navy, the paymaster of said vessel, with sums of money belonging to the
United States, in various amounts, furnished and intended for
the naval service thereof, for disbursement for the purposes
of said service during the temporary absence of said Paymaster Cann from the vessel, and having," on October 1, 1894,
"receipted to the said Paymaster Cann for money so entrusted
to his care as.aforesaid," in the sum of $2701.44, did, between
July 15, 1893, and October 10, 1894, "knowingly and wilfully
misappropriate, and apply to his own use and benefit, from
the money so entrusted to him at various times as aforesaid,"
the sum of $1971.11, "in violation of article 14 of the Articles
for the Government of the Navy."
On October 26, a copy of the charge and specification was
delivered to Sayre. The court martial met October 30, and
sat from day to day until November 2. At its first meeting,
Sayre was brought before it, and acknowledged that he had
received a copy of the charge and specification. After they
had been read, his counsel objected to the jurisdiction of the
court, upon the ground that Sayre, being a paymaster's
clerk, was a civilian, and not subject to trial by court martial; and also demurred, upon the ground that a, paymaster's
clerk could not be guilty of embezzlement of funds of the
United States, because the paymaster only was vested with
the management and control of those funds, and had no

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

power to delegate his authority to a clerk. The court martial decided that it had jurisdiction, and overruled the
demurrer. Sayre then pleaded not guilty.
The facts that the accused was originally put under arrest
on October 10, and that the copy of the charge and specification was first delivered to him on October 26, were not
brought to the notice of the court martial, until they appeared
upon the examination of Captain Johnson, the last witness
called for the United States. Sayre's counsel thereupon
moved that all the evidence introduced on the part of
the United States be excluded, because the copy had not
been served upon him until sixteen days after his arrest;
and in support of this motion relied upon article 43 of the
Articles for the Government of the Navy,1 and article 1785
of the United States Navy Regulations.'
On November 2, the court martial, after arguments of the
defendant's counsel and of the judge advocate upon this
motion, and upon the whole case, overruled the motion, anl
found the specification proved, and the accused guilty of the
charge ; and sentenced him "to be confined, in such a place as

the Honorable Secretary of the Navy may designate, for the
1 The person accused shall be furnished with a true copy of the
charges, with the specifications, at the time he is put under arrest;
and no other charges than those so furnished shall be urged against him at
the trial, unless it shall appear to the court that intelligence of such other
ciarge had not reached the officer ordering the court when the accused was
put under arrest, or that some witness material to the support of such
charge was at that time absent and can be produced at the trial; in which
case reasonable time shall be given to the accused to make his defence
against such new charge. Rev. Stat. § 1624, art. 43.
2 1. It is entirely within the discretion of the officer empowered to convene a court martial to direct what portions of the complaint against an
accused shall be clarged against him.
2. When, therefore, such competent officers shall decide to have a party
tried by court martial, he will cause such charges and specifications against
him to be prepared as he may consider proper, and will transmit a true copy
of them, with an order for the arrest or confinement of the accused, to the
proper officer, who will deliver such order to the accused, and will carry
it into effect by delivering to him the copy of the charges and specifications,
an(l, if an officer, by receiving his sword. Navy Regulations of 1893, art.
1785, p. 462.

JOHNSON v, SAYRE.
Opinion of the Court.

period of two years;" to lose his pay during his confinement,
to the amount of $221O ; and then to be dishonorably dismissed
from the naval service of the United States.
On November 17, the Secretary of the Navy approved the
proceedings, finding and sentence of the court martial, and
ordered the sentence to be duly executed ; and designated the
prison at the navy yard in Boston, Massachusetts, as the place
for the execution of so much of the sentence as related to confinement; and directed him to be transferred, under a suitable
guard, to that prison, to be there confined in accordance with
the terms of his sentence.
On November 21, upon the petition of Sayre, the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia
ordered a writ of habeas corpus to issue to Captain Johnson.
The return to the writ stated that Captain Johnson held Sayre
under the order of the Secretary of the Navy of November 17.
Upon a hearing, the court, held by the District Judge, considered, as stated in his opinion on file and sent up with the record, entitled "finding of the court," that Sayre was unlawfully restrained of his liberty, because detained under a sentence
to an infamous punishment, not in time of war or public danger, without indictment or trial by jury, in violation of the
Fifth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, "but without prejudice in any other respect to the sentence of the court martial; " and therefore ordered him to be discharged from custody. Captain Johnson appealed to this court.
Mr. Littleton W. T. Waller, by special leave of court, for
appellant. .Mr.
Solicitor General was on his brief.
Air. John IV. fapper and Mr.A. E.. Warner for appellee.
MR. JusTic0

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the Fifth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, "no person shall be held to answer for a
capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or
VOL. CLV1-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

indictment of a grand jury, except in cases arising in the land
or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service in time
of war or public danger."
The decision below is based upon the construction that
the words " when in actual service in time of war or public
danger" refer, not merely to the last antecedent, " or in the
militia," but also to the previous clause, " in the land or naval
forces." That construction is grammatically possible. But it
is opposed to the evident meaning of the provision, taken by
itself, and still more so, when it is considered together with
the other provisions of the Constitution.
The whole purpose of the provision in question is to prevent
persons, not subject to the military law, from being held to
answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, without
presentment or indictment by a grand jury.
All persons in the military or naval service of the United
States are subject to the military law; the members of the
regular army and navy, at all times; the militia, so long as
they are in such service.
By article 1, section 8, of the Constitution, Congress has
power 'to raise and support armies ;" "to provide and
maintain a navy; to make rules for the government of the
land and naval forces ; to provide for calling forth the militia
to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and
repel invasions; to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them as
may be employed in the service of the United States;" and to
make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by the Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any
department or officer thereof.
Congress is thus expressly vested with the power to make
rules for the government of the whole regular army and navy
at all times; and to provide for governing such part only of
the militia of the several States, as, having been called forth
to execute the laws of the Union, to suppress insurrections, or
to repel invasions, is employed in the service of the United
States.

JOHNSON v. SAYIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

By article 2, section 2, of the Constitution, "the President
shall be commander in chief of the army and navy of the
United States, and of the militia of the several States, when
called into the actual service of the United States."
The President is thus, in like manner, made commander in
chief of the army and the navy of the United States at all
times; and commander in chief of the militia, only when called
into the actual service of the United States.
The Fifth Article of Amendment recognizes the like distinction, between the regular land and naval forces and the militia,
as to judicial authority, that the Constitution, as originally
adopted, had ,recognized as to the legislative and the executive.
It might as well be held that the words " when called into
the actual service of the United States," in the clause concerning the authority of the President as commander in chief,
restrict his authority over the army and navy, as to hold that
the like words, in the Fifth Amendment, relating to the mode
of accusation, restrict the jurisdiction of courts martial in the
regular land and naval forces.
The necessary construction is that the words, in this amendment, "when in actual service in time of war or public danger,"
like the corresponding words, in the First Article of the Constitution, "call[ed] forth to execute the laws of the Union,
suppress insurrections and repel invasions," and "employed in
the service of the United States," and those, in the Second
Article, "when called into the actual service of the United
States," apply to the militia only.
This construction has hitherto been considered so plain and
indisputable, that it has been constantly assumed and acted
on by this court, without discussion. Dynes v. Hoover, 20
tlow. 65 ; Ex parle Reed, 100 U. S.13 ; Exparte 3ason, 105
U. S. 696; Hurtz v. _Moffatt, 115 U. S. 487, 500; Smith v.
Vhitney, 116 U. S.167, 186. See also 1 Kent Com. 341, note;
Miller on the Constitution, 506, 507; n re Bogart, 2 Sawyer,
396; 12 Opinions of Attorneys General, 510.
Upon an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
in a case of habeas corpus, all questions of law or of fact, arising upon the record, including the evidence, are open to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

sideration; and the Circuit Court has no authority to make
conclusive findings of fact, as it might do in actions at law
upon waiver of a jury, or in cases in admiralty. In re -rea gle,
135 U. S. 1, 42; Bond v. -Dustin,112 U. S. 604; Ralli v. Troo) ,
157 U. S. 386, 417.
The suggestion, in the opinion below, that "the prison at
Boston is shown in evidence to be one of narrow cells and
limited appliances for comfort, and such as would seem to
render confinement in it for a long term a punishment which
the law regards as 'cruel and unusual,'" and forbidden by the
Eighth Article of Amendment of the Constitution, is unsupported by anything in the record. The remarks.of the Secretary of the Navy, in the General Order of March 25, 1871,
No. 162, cited by the learned judge, as to the condition of the
prisons at the command of the department at that time, have
no tendency to show what is the present condition of any of
those prisons. And no point of the kind was made at the
argument in this court.
By the Articles for the Government of the Navy, established
by Congress, under the power conferred upon it by the
Constitution, "fine or imprisonment, or such other punishment as a court martial shall adjudge, shall be inflicted
upon any person in the naval service of the United States,"
who steals, embezzles, knowingly and wilfully misappropriates, applies to his own use or benefit, or wrongfully and
knowingly sells or disposes of any ordnance, arms, equipments,
ammunition, clothing, subsistence stores, money or other
property of the United States, furnished or intended for the
military or naval service thereof;" and "all offences committed by persons belonging to the navy while on shore shall
be punished in the same manner as if they had been committed at sea." Rev. Stat. § 1624, arts. 14, 23. But service
on a receiving ship, even if she is at anchor at a navy yard,
and not in a condition to go to sea, is "sea service," within
the meaning of the statute giving officers "at sea" a higher
rate of pay than when "on shore duty." Rev. Stat. § 1556;
United States v. Symonds, 120 U. S. 46; United States v.
Strong, 125 U. S.656.

JOHNSON

v. SAYRE.

Opinion of the Court.

By the Revised Statutes, certain paymasters, including.
those on receiving ships or at naval stations, are each allowed
a clerk; the pay of the clerk is fixed; and he may become
entitled to bounty land, or to a pension. Rev. Stat. §§ 1386,
1556, 2426, 4695. He is not, indeed, deemed one of the petty
officers, who are entitled to obedience, in the execution of
their offices, from persons of inferior ratings. Rev. Stat. §
1410. Nor is he entitled to mileage, as an "officer of the
navy," under the act of June 30, 1876, c. 159. 19 Stat. 65;
United States v. Moua, 124 U. S. 303. But he is included
among "officers and enlisted men in the regular or volunteer
army or navy," and as such entitled to longevity pay, under
the act of March 3, 1883, c. 97. 22 Stat. 473; United States
v. Iendee, 124 U. S.309.
The appointment and acceptance of Sayre as paymaster's
clerk were in accordance with the Regulations for the Government of the Navy, established February 23, 1893, by the
Secretary of the Navy, with the approval of the President,
pursuant to section 1547 of the Revised Statutes. Navy
Regulations of 1893, art. 1697, p. 438.
lie was therefore, as has been directly adjudged by this
court, a person in the naval service of the United States, and
subject to be tried and convicted, and to be sentenced to
imprisonment, by a general court martial. Exparle Reed, 100
U. S. 13.
The provision of article 43 of the Articles for the Government of the Navy, which prescribes that "the person accused
shall be furnished with a true copy of the charges, with the
specifications, at the time he is put under arrest," (on which
Sayre relied before the court martial, and in this court,) evidently refers, as appears by the very next article, to the time
when he "is arrested for trial" by court martial, and not to
the time of any previous arrest, either by way of punishment,
or to await the action of a court of inquiry. Rev. Stat. § 1624,
arts. 24, 43, 44, 55. Sayre, being already in custody to await
the result of a court of inquiry, could not be considered as put
under arrest for trial by court martial, before the Secretary
of the Navy had informed him of the report of the court of

OCTOBER

TERAM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

inquiry, and had ordered a court martial to convene to try
him. Immediately after that, and four days before the court
martial met, he was furnished with a copy of the charge and
specification on which he was to be tried. This was a sufficient compliance with the article in question. And it is, at the
least, doubtful whether the objection that it had not been
sooner delivered to him did not come too late, after be had
admitted before the court martial that he had received a copy
of the charge and specification, and after objections to the
jurisdiction of the court and to the form of the accusation
had been made and overruled, and he had pleaded not guilty,
and the evidence for the United States had been introduced.
The court martial having jurisdiction of the person accused
and of the offence charged, and having acted within the scope
of its lawful powers, its decision and sentence cannot be
reviewed or set aside by the civil courts, by writ of habeas
corpus or otherwise. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 82;
:x pare Reed, 100 U. S. 13; Ex parte Mason, 105 U. S.
696; Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167, 177-179.
Order reversed, with directions to remand Sayre to custody.

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 288. Submitted April 15, 1895. -

Decided May 6, 1S95.

Congress having appropriated in payment of a judgment against the United
States in the Court of Claims, the full amount of the judgment, with a
provision in the appropriation law that the sum thus appropriated
shall be in full satisfaction of the judgment, and the judgment debtor
having accepted that sum in payment of the judgment debt, the debtor is
estopped from claiming interest on the judgment debt under Rev. Stat.
§ 1090.

ON May 2, 1888, the "Pacific Railroad," a corporation of
the State of Missouri, filed in the Court of Claims a petition
seeking to recover interest on certain judgments it had previ-

