ELLENWOOD v.

IARIETTA CHAIR CO.
Syllabus.

to the condition that the State cannot, in its exercise, for any
purpose whatever, encroach upon the powers of the general
government, or rights granted or secured by the supreme law
of the land." New Orleans Gas Co. v. _Louisiana Light Co.,
115 U. S. 650, 661. " While it may be a police power in the
sense that all provisions for the health, comfort, and security
of the citizens are police regulations, and an exercise of the
police power, it has been said more than once in this court
that, where such powers are so exercised as to come within
the domain of Federal authority as defined by the Constitution, the latter must prevail." Morgan v. louisiana, 118
U. S.455, 464.
It is unnecessary to pursue this discussion further. The
State statute and the national law operate upon the same
subject-matter, and prescribe different rules concerning it.
The national law is unquestionably one within the competency
of Congress to enact under the power given to regulate commerce between the States. The state statute must, therefore,
give way.
The judgment of the county court of Milam County is
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ELLENWOOD v. MARIETTA CHAIR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

SOUTHERN
No. 234.

OF

THE

DISTRICT

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

OF OHIO.

Argued April 11, 15, 1895. -Decided

May 6, 1895.

By the law of those States of the Union whose jurisprudence is based on
the common law, an action for trespass upon land can only be brought
within the State in which the land lies.
A count alleging a continuing trespass upon land, and the cutting and conversion of timber growing thereon, states a single cause of action, in
which the trespass upon the land is the principal thing, and the conver-

sion of the timber is incidental only ; and cannot be maintained by proof
of the conversion, without also proving the trespass upon the land.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
A court sitting in one State, before which is brought an action for trespass
upon land in another State, may rightly order the case to be stricken
from its docket, although no question of jurisdiction is made by demurrer or plea.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General IVliitney, with whom was
X[r. George I. Sterling on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr.A. D. Follett, with whom was MrP-.
B. A. Ilarrisonon
the brief, for defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Ohio, by one Walton,
administrator of the estate of Latimer Bailey, deceased, and a
citizen of New Jersey, against the Marietta Chair Company,
a corporation of Ohio.
The original petition contained two counts; one count alleging that the defendant, on January 1, 1875, and on divers days
between that day and May 4, 1885, in the lifetime of Bailey,
unlawfully and with force broke and entered upon a tract of
land in the county of Pleasants and State of West Virginia,
owned and possessed by Bailey, and, by cutting and hauling
timber thereon, cut up, obstructed, incumbered and devastated
the land, and cut down, removed and carried therefrom a large
quantity of timber, and converted and disposed of it to the
defendant's own use; and the other count alleging that the
defendant, on the days aforesaid, unlawfully took and received
into its possession a large quantity of logs, the property of
Bailey, and then lately cut and removed from that land, and
converted and disposed of the same to its own use.
A motion by the defendant, that the plaintiff
be required to
make his complaint more definite and certain, was ordered by
the court to be sustained, "unless the plaintiff amend his
petition so as to show that the trespass complained of was
a continuous trespass between the times mentioned in the
petition."

ELLENWOOD v. MARIETTA CHAIR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff thereupon, by leave of the court, filed an
amended petition, containing a single count, alleging Bailey's
ownership and possession of the land, and of the timber growing thereon ; and that, on January 1, 1875, " and on divers
other days from time to time continuously between that day
and" May 4, 1885, sundry persons, knowing the land and the
timber thereon to be Bailey's property, without any right or
authority from him, and at the instance and for the use and
benefit of the defendant, cut down and removed and sawed
into logs a large quantity of the timber, and the defendant,
knowing the logs to be cut from the land, and both land and
logs to be Bailey's property, took the logs into its possession
and converted them to its own use.
After the filing of an answer denying the allegations of the
amended petition, and before the case came to trial, the court,
upon Ellenwood's suggestion that Walton's letters of administration had been revoked, and Ellenwood had been appointed
administrator in his stead, entered an order reviving the action
in the name of Ellenwood as administrator; but afterwards
adjudged that this order be set aside, and that the action be
abated and stricken from the docket. This writ of error was
thereupon sued out in the name of Walton, and was permitted
by this court to be amended by substituting the name of
Ellenwood. lVallon v. Mcrietta Chlair Co., 157 U. S. 342.
Various grounds taken by the defendant in error in support
of the judgment below need not be considered, because there
is one decisive reason against the maintenance of the action.
By the law of England, and of those States of the Union
whose jurisprudence is based upon the common law, an action
for trespass upon land, like an action to recover the title or
the possession of the land itself, is a local action, and can only
be brought within the State in which the land lies. Livingston v. Jefferson, 1 Brock. 203; 3icKenna v. Fisk, 1 how.
241, 247; Nortlern Indiana Railroad v. Michigan Central
Railroad,15 How. 233, 242, 251; Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657, 669, 670; British South. Africa Co. v. Conipanhia
de MoQamnbique, (1893) App. Cas. 602; Cragin v. Lovell, 88
N. Y. 258; Allin v. Connecticut River Co., 150 Mass. 560;

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Thayer v. Brooks, 17 Ohio, 489, 492; Kinkead's Code Pleading, ยง 35.
The original petition contained two counts, the one for
trespass upon land, and the other for taking away and converting to the defendant's use personal property; and the
cause of action stated in the second count might have been
considered as transitory, although the first was not. McEenna v. Fisk, above cited; Williams v. Breedon, 1 Bos. &
Pul. 329.
But the petition, as amended by the plaintiff, on motion of
the defendant, and by order and leave of the court, contained
a single count, alleging a continuing trespass upon the land
by the defendant, through its agents, and its cutting and conversion of timber growing thereon. This allegation was of a
single cause of action, in which the trespass upon the land
was the principal thing, and the conversion of the timber was
incidental only; and could not, therefore, be maintained by
proof of the conversion of personal property, without also
proving the trespass upon real estate. Cotton v. United States,
11 How. 229; Eames v. Prentice,8 Cush. 337; Howe v. WVillson, 1 Denio, 181; Dodge v. Colby, 108 N. Y. 445; Merriman
v. McCormick Co., 86 Wisconsin, 142. The entire cause of
action was local. The land alleged to have been trespassed
upon being in West Virginia, the action could not be maintained in Ohio. The Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in Ohio, had no jurisdiction of the cause of action, and
for this reason, if for no other, rightly ordered the case to be
stricken from its docket, although no question of jurisdiction
had been made by demurrer or plea. British South Africa
Co. v. Companhia de MoQambique, (1893) App. Cas. 602, 621;
Weidner v. Rankin, 26 Ohio St. 522; Youngstown v. Moore,
30 Ohio St. 133; Ohio Rev. Stat. ยง 5064.
Judgment affirmed.

