CUTLER v. HUSTON.
Statement of the Case.

cause of action accrued." That this court did not intend to
lay down any such rule as the appellants contend for, is quite
evident from the following sentences, not quoted by them, but
which immediately precede those above quoted: "It is scarcely
necessary to say that complainants [in the equity suit] cannot
avail themselves as a matter of law of the laches of the plaintiff
in the ejectment suit. Though a good defence in equity, laches
is no defence at law."
The claim of the appellants is without merit, and the
decree is
A irmed.

CUTLER v. HUSTON.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT
WESTERN
No. 229.

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

Argued March 27, 1895. -

Decided May 27, 1895.

On the 12th of July, 1889, S. executed to C. a chattel mortgage in Michigan
to secure his indebtedness to him and to a bank of which he was president, and the mortgage was placed by the mortgagee in his safe. On the
17th of August, 1889, H. having no knowledge of this mortgage, purchased for a valuable consideration a note of S. On the 29th of August,
1889, C. caused the chattel mortgage to be placed on record. On the
5th of August, 1890, H. instituted garnishee proceedings against C.
averring that he had possession and control of property of S. by a title
which was void as to the creditors of S. The garnishee answered setting up title under the chattel mortgage. The court below held that in
consequence of the failure to file the chattel mortgage, and of the fact
that H. became a creditor of S. in the interim, the chattel mortgage was
void under the laws of Michigan as to H., and gave judgment accordingly. Held, That in this that court committed no error.
An unreversed judgment of a circuit court is not a nullity, and cannot be
collaterally attacked.

RIGDON HUSTON, who died in May, 1877, left a will, by
which bequests were made to several persons, among whom
was the testator's son, Theodore Iuston, the husband of the
defendant in error. The executors appointed by the will were
the testator's brother, John Huston, and his sons, Charles R.
Huston and the said Theodore Huston.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

On November 22, 1888, William Steele purchased cattle of
the estate of Rigdon Huston, and in payment therefor gave
to the said executors his promissory note, dated the day of the
purchase, payable on or before one year after date to their
order at the Second National Bank of Ionia, Michigan, for
the sum of $9600, with interest at the rate of six per cent per
annumn, and eight per cent per annum from maturity.
Dwight Cutler, the plaintiff in error, and the First National
Bank of Grand Haven, of which Cutler was president, were
creditors of Steele in the respective amounts of $8000 and
$12,000, and Cutler was liable as accommodation endorser of
Steele's paper to the amount of $20,000. Steele requested
Cutler to make for him a further endorsement to the amount
of $25,000. Cutler refused to do this, but he obtained for
Steele a, loan of the amount required, Steele executing as
security therefor certain mortgages on real estate. At the
same time, July 12, 1889, Steele executed to Cutler a chattel
mortgage to secure the amount of his other indebtedness to
Cutler and to the bank, and to indemnify Cutler as his accommodation endorser. These mortgages, together with a certain deed executed by Steele to his wife. were delivered to
Cutler, with the request that the deed should be sent for
record when the other papers should be sent, and Cutler
placed the papers in his safe.
in August, 1889, the said Theodore Hluston desired to
obtain a portion of his share of Rigdon Huston's estate, and
applied for the same to his coexecutors. Ie was willing to
take the said note executed to the estate by Steele, but the
other executors thought that it might not be well to allow
him to have so large an amount at that time. It was then
agreed that his wife and he should give their joint note to
the estate for $5000, and that he should give his receipt to
the executors for $5025.60, being the difference between $5000
and the amount of the Steele note, with interest, as for a
portion of his distributive share of the estate. On August 17,
1889, Anna B. Huston and Theodore Huston executed the
note agreed upon to the estate, and the Steele note was delivered to Theodore Huston, endorsed as follows:

CUTLER v. HUSTON.
Statement of the Case.

"For value received we assign the within note to Anna B.
Iuston this 17th day of August, 1889.
"[Signed]
JOHN HusroN,
THEODORE iUSTON,
CHAS. iR. HUSTON,

"Executors of Rigdon Iluston's Estate."
Theodore Huston, on the same day, gave his receipt to
John Huston and Charles R. Huston for $5025.60, to be
applied on his distributive share of the estate of Rigdon
Huston.
Subsequently, on August 29, 1889, Cutler caused the mortgages executed by Steele on July 12, 1889, including the said
chattel mortgage, to be duly recorded in Ionia County, Michigan.
An action was brought on the Steele note, on December 14,
1889, in the name of Anna B. Huston, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Michigan. The
declaration stated that the plaintiff was a citizen of the State
of Illinois, but contained no averment with relation to the
citizenship of Steele, the defendant. The action was tried in
the said court, and the plaintiff obtained a judgment on the
note in the sum of $10,410, and for costs in the sum or $31.80.
On August 5, 1890, Anna B.
uIston instituted garnishee
proceedings in the said court against Dwight Cutler, by the
filing of an affidavit, setting out that the plaintiff was a citizen
of the State of Illinois; that Dwight Cutler, the defendant,
was a citizen of the State of Michigan, and that the said
William Steele was, at the time the said judgment was obtained against him, a citizen of the State of Michigan; alleging the recovery of the said judgment, etc.; and averring the
defendant's possession and control of property, money, and
credits belonging to William Steele, and property and credits
which the defendant held by a conveyance and title that was
void as to William Steele's creditors.
To this affidavit the defendant Cutler answered that he had
no property, money, or credits whatsoever belonging to William Steele, except the property covered by the said chattel

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

mortgage, as to which property he made the following statement:
"That on the 13th day of July, 1890, the said William
Steele gave a chattel mortgage to the garnishee, Dwight Cutler, to secure the repayment of $40,000, upon 160 head of
short-horn Devon and Jersey cattle, fourteen work horses,
about fifty sheep, a number of hogs, two stallions, and a
quantity of farming utensils, and some logs; that the amount
secured to said garnishee by said mortgage was now due to
him from said William Steele, and unpaid; that said mortgage
has been foreclosed in the Circuit Court for the county of
Ionia, in chancery, and a decree rendered therein in favor of
the garnishee, as complainant, and against the said William
Steele, finding the amount due thereon at over $40,000, and
directing a sale of said property under said decree; that the
garnishee, Dwight Cutler, now holds said property so authorized to be sold by said decree and is about to sell the same
under and by virtue of said mortgage to satisfy said indebtedness."
The defendant further answered that he held no property
of the said Steele other than that so mortgaged; that he had
held at no time conveyances from Steele in fraud of creditors;
and that the security given by Steele was for actual and bona
fde indebtedness.
Upon the coining on of the case for trial a jury was waived,
and the court, having heard the evidence, made a finding of'
facts of which the statement of facts given above is the substance, and based thereon the following conclusions of law:
"First. Upon the facts as found the plaintiff became a
creditor of William Steele on the 17th day of August, 1889,
within the intent of ยง 6193, of Howell's Statutes of Michigan,
and while the chattel mortgage from Steele to Cutler aforesaid remained unfiled.
" Second. The transfer of the Steele note of $9600 from
the estate of Rigdon Huston to the plaintiff was valid as
against Steele and Cutler. At most it could only be complained of by some one having an interest in the estate of
which it was part of the assets.

CUTLER v. HUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

"Third. In consequence of the failure to file the chattel
mortgage given by Steele to Cutler, and of the plaintiff becoming a creditor of Steele in the interim, the said chattel
mortgage was and is void as to her and of no effect.
"Fourth. It appearing that the garnishee had property of
the principal defendant at the commencement of these proceedings in his possession of value greater than the amount of
plaintiff's judgment, and which he has appropriated for his
own use, judgment must be entered in favor of the plaintiff
and against said garnishee for the amount of plaintiff's judgment against the principal defendant, Steele, and interest on
the damages thereby recovered, in all $11,424.96."
Accordingly, judgment in the amount last named was, on
May 20, 1891, duly entered in the said court against the defendant Cutler, and he then sued out a writ of error, bringing
the case here.
ir. George A. Farr for plaintiff in error. MlVr. John (/.
Tfitzgerald and Mr. Ednund D. Barry were on his brief.
-Mr.Thomas F
defendant in error.

ieGarry and Mr. Edwin F. Uhl for

MIn. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
A statute of Michigan provides that "every mortgage or
conveyance intended to operate as a mortgage, of goods and
chattels, which shall hereafter be made, which shall not be
accompanied by an immediate delivery, and followed by an
actual and continued change of possession of the things mortgaged, shall be absolutely void as against the creditors of the
mortgagor, and as against subsequent purchasers or mortgagees
in good faith, unless the mortgage, or a true copy thereof,
shall be filed in the office of the township clerk of the township, or city clerk of the city, or city recorder of cities having
no officer known as the city clerk, where the mortgagor resides."
Howell's Ann. Stats. Mich. ยง 6193. The main question in th

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

present case is, whether Anna B. Huston, the defendant in
error, is entitled as a creditor of one William Steele to the
benefit of this act.
The facts of the case, under a stipulation of the parties,
were found by the trial court, and sufficiently appear in the
statement heretofore made. Some exceptions to those findings were taken and pressed upon our attention, but they do
not relate to the admission or rejection of evidence, nor is any
failure alleged of the trial court to pass specifically upon any
proposition submitted; and we are therefore bound to accept
the facts as found, and are only to inquire whether they support the judgment. Vorris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125.
On July 12, 1889, William Steele made and delivered to
Dwight Cutler, plaintiff in error, a chattel mortgage covering a large amount of personal property, to secure certain
notes and liabilities held and owned by Cutler and a bank of
which he was president. Possession of the mortgaged property was not changed, and by an understanding of the parties
the mortgage was not filed in the proper clerk's office until
August 29, 1889. Between the time of the delivery and the
filing of the mortgage, namely, on August 17, 1889, Anna B.
H-uston became, by assignment, in good faith and without any
notice or knowledge of the mortgage, the owner of a promissory note given by Steele, on November 22, 1888, in the sum
of $9.600, payable in one year from date, to the executors of
Rigdon Huston's estate.
Two reasons are given for denying Mrs. Huston's right to
assail the validity of Cutler's chattel mortgage.
It is said, in the first place, that she is not a bonw fide creditor of Steele; that she gave nothing for the note; and
that the note really belonged to her husband, Theodore Huston. This contention is sufficiently disposed of by referring
to the findings of facts, wherein it is found that, in assigning
the Steele note to Mrs. luston, the executors acted in good
faith and in the exercise of competent authority. In so finding we think the court below was clearly warranted by the
evidence. It was not pretended that the note had not been
given for a valuable consideration to the Huston estate, and

CUTLER v. HUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

with the action of the executors in assigning the note Cutler
plainly had no concern.
Supposing that Mrs. Iuston, as the assignee of the note,
was a bona fide creditor of Steele, it is next objected that, as
matter of law, she did not become such creditor, on August
17, 1889, within the meaning and intent of the statute of
Michigan making chattel mortgages, not accompanied by
change of possession, or not filed in the clerk's office, void
as against other creditors of the mortgagor. It is claimed
that the statute applies only to creditors who have become
such during the interim between the making and the filing
of the mortgage, or who have during such interim obtained
a lien on the mortgaged property by levy of execution or
attachment, or who have during such interim granted extensions or renewals of credit to the mortgagor; and that, as the
note which was owned by Mrs. Huston had been issued by
Steele before the making of the mortgage, it was not protected by the statute.
Of course, the construction put upon the statute by the
courts of the State is to control the Federal courts, in a case
like the present, and we have accordingly examined with care
the numerous Michigan cases cited by the parties respectively.
In Waite v. Mathews, 50 Michigan, 392, it is said : "It was
distinctly intimated in Kohl v. Lynn, 34 Michigan, 360, and
Fearey v. Uummings, 41 Michigan, 376, that in order to justify
the application of the statute making mortgages, whether
honest or not, absolutely void for want of filing or possession,
some act must be done, or some detriment sustained, during the interval. As against all such rights, a mortgage,
without such possession or filing, is absolutely and not merely
presumptively void."
Root v. Iarl, 62 Michigan, 420, was a case where a chattel
mortgage was given in good faith to secure a creditor, who
delayed in filing it, and in the interval other creditors gave
credits by the way of loans and extensions of payment. The
court held the mortgage void, and said: "Any creditors have
a right to avoid an unrecorded mortgage who have, during
its absence from the record, done anything material which

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

they may be fairly considered to have done on the basis of its
non-existence."
In Culer v. Steele, 85 Michigan, 627, where, at the suit
of another creditor, this very mortgage was held invalid, it
was said: "We are, therefore, of opinion that the term
'creditors' used in the statute includes those who have
entered into contracts with parties as indorsers, guarantors,
or sureties. Such contracts in the commercial world are
everyday transactions. It is impossible to believe the legislature did not enact this statute with a view to protect creditors against all those upon whose promises, whether principal
or contingent, they had parted with valuable considerations."
It is evident that, had the mortgage in question been filed
of record on July 12, 1889, Theodore Huston would not, on
August 17, 1889, have accepted the Steele note as part of his
patrimony, nor have caused it to be assigned to the defendant
in error.
Another objection urged is found in the fact that in the
record of the original case of Hluston v. Steele in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Michigan, it was not stated that Steele was a citizen of Michigan,
and, therefore, it does not appear that the suit was between
citizens of different States, and hence, it is contended that the
judgment obtained in that case could not be made the basis of
an attachment against Cutler.
There are two answers to this position, one, that the proceedings in the present case contain averments that Anna B. Huston, the plaintiff, was a citizen of Illinois, and as such had
obtained a judgment against William Steele as a citizen of
Michigan, and this averment was not traversed, and hence must
be deemed to have been conclusively established, and the defendant cannot be heard to raise such an objection for the first
time in an appellate court; the other, that while said judgment
remains unreversed it is not a nullity, and cannot be collaterally attacked. This was held in MoCormiele v. Sullivant, 10
Wheat. 192, 199. That was a case where, to a bill brought in
the Circuit Court of the United States to enforce a claim to real
estate, the defendants filed a plea in bar to former proceedings

ERIE RAILROAD v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Statement of the Case.

in a United States court. To this there was a special replication alleging that the proceedings in such former suit were
coram non judice, because the record did not show that the
complainants and defendant in that suit were citizens of different States, and the court, through Mr. Justice Washington,
said: "This reasoning proceeds upon an incorrect view of the
character and jurisdiction of the inferior courts of the United
States. They are all of limited jurisdiction, but they are not,
on that account, inferior courts in the technical sense of those
words, whose judgments, taken alone, are to be disregarded.
If the jurisdiction be not alleged in the proceedings, their judgments and decrees are erroneous, and may, upon a writ of error
or appeal, be reversed for that cause. But they are not absolute nullities." Evers v. Watson, 156 U. S. 527. Accordingly
the decree was held to be a valid bar of the subsequent suit.
In view, then, of the facts as found, and reading the statute
of Michigan in the light of the decisions cited, we are of opinion that the court committed no error, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TIE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 263.

Argued April 5, 1895.

Decided May 27, 1895.

A statute of Pennsylvania imposing a tax upon the tolls received by
the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company from other

railroad companies, for the use by them respectively of so much of its
railroad and tracks as lies in the State of Pennsylvania, for the passage
over them of trains owned and hauled by such companies respectively,
is a valid tax, and is not in conflict with the interstate commerce clause

of the Constitution when applied to goods so transported from without
the State of Pennsylvania.

THE New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company,
a corporation of the State of New York, doing business in the
State of Pennsylvania, appealed from a settlement of account
made by the Auditor General of the latter State, assessing

