BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Statement of the Case.

CATHOLIC BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
APPEAL. FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

THE

No 277.

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Argued April 9, 10, 1895. -Decided

May 6, 1895.

No question as to jurisdiction in this case having been taken in the court
below or here, this court waives the inquiry whether an objection to the

jurisdiction might not, if seasonably taken, have compelled a dismissal.
In the administration of the public lands, the decisions of the land department upon questions of fact are conclusive, and only questions of law

can be reviewed in the courts.
In the absence of some specific provision to the contrary in respect of any
particular grant of public land, its administration falls wholly and absolutely within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of the General Land

Office, under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of the
Interior.

The decision of the Secretary of the Interior of March 11, 1872, sustaining
than half an
the claim of the plaintiff in error to a small tract -less
acre- of the 640 acres claimed under the act of August 14, 1848, c. 177,

9 Stat. 323, if not conclusive upon the plaintiff in law, was right in fact.

IN section 1 of the act of Congress of August 14, 1848, C.
177, establishing the territorial government of Oregon, is the
following proviso: "Provided, also, That the title to tile
land, not exceeding six hundred and forty acres, now occupied
as missionary stations among the Indian tribes in said Territory, together with the improvements thereon, be confirmed
and established in the several religious societies to which
said missionary stations respectively belong." 9 Stat. 323.
Oregon as then organized included all that region west of
the Rocky Mountains and north of the forty-second degree
of north latitude, part of which became afterwards the Territory and later the State of Washington.
In February, 1887, the appellant, as plaintiff, commenced
a suit in the District Court of the Second Judicial District of
Washington Territory against the defendants, John Gibbon,
T. M. Anderson, and R. T. Yeatman. In the bill then filed
the plaintiff alleged that under and by virtue of the forego-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ing proviso it was entitled to a tract of 640 acres, at and adjacent to the present town of Vancouver, 430 acres of which
were in the occupancy of the defendants as officers and
soldiers of the United States, who held the same as a military
reservation; and the prayer was for an injunction, a decree
of title, and a surrender of possession. Under the direction
of the Attorney General the United States attorney for
the Territory of Washington entered the appearance of the
United States, and filed an answer in behalf of all of the
defendants. While the case was pending in the territorial
courts, Washington was admitted as a State, and the case was
thereupon transferred to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Washington. In that court, upon
pleadings and proof, a decree was entered in favor of the
defendants dismissing the bill. 44 Fed. Rep. 321. From
such decree the plaintiff appealed to this court.
Mr. A. I-. Garland and Mr. II. J. May for appellant.
M1r. Ritfits C. Garland was on their brief.
.Mr. Solicitor General for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

No question was raised in the pleadings or otherwise on
the record as to the jurisdiction of the court below over a
controversy of this character, but the case was heard and
disposed of by the Circuit Court on the merits of the plaintiff's
claim. It has been in like manner argued in this court, and,
therefore, waiving the inquiry whether the objection to the
jurisdiction might not, if seasonably taken, have compelled
a dismissal, we shall proceed to consider the merits.
In this case a large volume of testimony has been taken,
which it would be a waste of time to attempt to review in
detail. Notwithstanding some conflict in minor matters, there
is little difficulty in determining what was the true situation
of affairs at Vancouver at the time of the passage of the act
of 1848. To a clear understanding of that situation, a brief
historical statement of preceding events is necessary. Some

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

years prior to 1838 the Hudson Bay Company had established
a trading post at Vancouver. This was done under the
assumption that it was within the British possessions. In
and about this post were gathered quite a number of employhs
of the company. It was purely a trading post, with the buildin gs, appurtenances, and employ6s naturally attached to such
a post established far from civilization and in the midst of the
Indian country. Many of these employ6s were Catholics.
In the year 1834-1835 these Catholics forwarded petitions
to the Bishop of Juliopolis to send missionaries to them.
To these applications the bishop, on June 6 and 8, 1835, made
responses, the first being a letter to Dr. McLaughlin, of
the Hudson Bay Company, reading as follows:
"SIR: I have received last winter and this spring a petition
from certain free families, established on the river Willamette,
requesting the help of missionaries to instruct their children
and themselves. My intention is to use all my efforts to procure their request as soon as I can. I have no priests at my
disposal at Red River, but I will make a trip to Europe this
year. I intend to make it my business to procure these free
people and the Indians afterwards the means of knowing God.
I send together with this an answer to the petition I have received. I request that you please forward it to them. I join
with it some catechisms which might be useful to those people
if anybody can read among them. Those persons say they are
protected by you. Please induce them to do their best and
to deserve by a good behavior to profit by the favor they ask.
I have the honor to be, sir,
"Your most humble ob't serv't,
"+
I.N.,
"Bishop of Juliopoli.
"6 June, 1835 -Red River."
The other, enclosed with it, commences as follows:
"To all the families established on the Willamette River and
other Catholic persons beyond the Rocky Mountains, greeting and benediction:

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

"I have received, my dearest brethren, your two petitions,
the one dated 3d July, 1831, and the other 23d February,
1835. Both ask for missionaries to teach you and your
children. Such a request from people deprived of all religious
help could not fail to touch my heart. Indeed, if I had it in
my power I would send you some, even this year, but I have
no priests at my disposal at Red River. I must get some from
Canada or elsewhere, which requires time. I will give it my
attention during a trip I am going to make in Canada and
Europe this year. If my efforts are successful I will send you
help very soon. My intention is not only to procure to you
and your children the knowledge of God, but also the numerous Indian tribes among which you live. I exhort you meanwhile to deserve, by a good behavior, that God may help my
undertaking."
Subsequently, and on April 17, 1838, the Bishop of Quebec
sent Francis Norbert Blanchet and Modeste Demers as missionaries into this region, giving them a letter of instructions,
from which we quote the following:
"Instructions for Messrs. Francis Norbert Blanchet and
Modeste Demers, priests, appointed missionaries for that portion of the diocese of Quebec which is situate between the
Pacific Ocean and the Rocky Mountains:
" 1st. They must consider as the first object of their mission
to draw from barbarity and the disorders which follow from
it the Indian nations spread in that country.
"2d. The second object is to lend their services to the bad
Christians who have there adopted the morals of the Indians
and live in licentiousness and the forgetfulness of their duties.
"3d. Convinced that the preaching of the gospel is the
safest means of obtaining these happy results, they will lose
no opportunity of inculcating its principles and its maxims
either in their private conversations or in their public instructions.
"4th. In order more promptly to render themselves useful
to the nations of the country where they are sent, they will
from the first moment of their arrival apply themselves to
the study of the Indian languages, and will endeavor to

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

reduce them to regular principles so as to be able to publish
a grammar of them after some years of residence.
"5th. They will prepare for baptism with all possible haste
the infidel women who live in a state of concubinage with
Christians, in order to replace those irregular by lawful
marriages.
"6th. They will apply themselves with a particular care
to the Christian education of the children, establishing for
that purpose, as much as their means will afford them, schools
and catechisms in all the villages which they will have occasion to visit.
"9th. The territory which is particularly assigned to them
is that which is comprised between the Rocky Mountains at
the east, the Pacific Ocean at the west, the Russian possession
at the north, and the territory of the United States at the
south. It is only in that extent of territory that they will
establish missions, and it is particularly recommended to them
not to form any establishment on the lands the possession
whereof is contested by the United States. They will be
allowed, however, in conformity with the indult of the Holy
See, dated February 28, 1836, a copy of which accompanies
the present, to exercise, when needed, their faculties in the
Russian possessions as well as in that part of the American
territory which joins their mission. As to that part of the
territory, it is probable that it does not belong to any of the
dioceses of the United States, but if the missionaries are
informed that it is a part of some dioceses, they will abstain
from exercising any act of jurisdiction there in obedience to
the indult cited above unless they be authorized to it by the
bishop of such diocese.
"10th. As to the place where they will fix their principal
residence it will be on the river Cowlitz or Kowiltyhe, which
empties into the river Columbia on the north side of this last
river; on their arrival at Fort Vancouver they will present
themselves to the person who then represents the honorable
Hudson Bay Company, and they will take his advice as to
the precise situation of that establishment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"11th. They are particularly recommended to have all possible regard for the members and employs of that company
with whom it is very important for the holy work with which
they are charged, to be constantly in good intelligence.
"12th. As they cannot rely entirely upon the resources
from the Association for Propagation of the Faith, established
a year ago in this diocese, to provide for their sustenance and
the construction of the chapels and houses which they will
establish in various places of their mission, they will induce
the white inhabitants and the nations of the country to contribute for these objects as much as their means will allow
them.
"14th. The territory where this mission is - be established
having been annexed by the indult of the 28th of February,
1836, mentioned above to the Territory of the Northwest, the
spiritual government of which is entrusted to the Right Reverend Bishop of Juliopolis, the new missionaries will correspond
as regularly as possible with that prelate, whom they will also
inform. of the state of their mission and whose orders and
counsels they will receive with submission and respect."
With these instructions the two parties named proceeded to
the territory of Oregon, and arrived at Vancouver on November 24, 1838. The former of the two was still living when
this case was commenced, and his testimony was taken, he
being at the time Archbishop of Oregon City. lie testified
that in connection with his associate he established a Catholic
mission station at Vancouver, as well as at two or three other
places in Oregon; that when they established the Vancouver
station there were many Indians in the neighborhood, and
that they did a great deal of missionary work among them.
After describing the character of that work, and stating that
the missionary station was kept up from the year 1838 to the
fall of 1844, at which time he left for Europe and did not
return until August, 1847, he added this testimony:
"Int. 34. From 1838 to the time you left Oregon in 1844,
where were religious services held at Vancouver?
"Ans. In an old store inside the pickets.

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

"Int. 35. Was that room or building during that time used
for any other than religious and missionary services and labors?
"Ans. It was used only for Catholic religious services and
missionary labors.
"Int. 35 . State who attended services then in that building.
"Ans. Servants of the Hudson Bay Company, their wives
and children, Indians of the place and neighborhood-Dr.
McLaughlin often came- and others.
"Int. 36. Before 1844 had you purchased or obtained any
place or building at Vancouver outside of the pickets or fort
of the 11. B. Co. for any purpose whatsoever?
"Ans. I had not purchased, but had obtained a piece of
ground that was intended for the building of a church for
this station. The company was not willing to sell; that piece
of ground was shown to me from the saw-mill west and
including the present site. We were allowed to fence it,
but our means did not allow us to do so. This land was
east of the present Catholic church and near an old mill
or mills, and extended thence west, but I do not well recollect now how far west it came. I think the church now
stands on this land. Before I left for Europe I reconimended Rev. 1. Demers to build a church on that land.
"Int. 37. By whom was this land shown to you?
"Ans. To the best of my recollection it was by James
Douglas, Esq., chief factor of the company and governor of
the F. V. in absence of Dr. McLaughlin.
"Int. 38. Did you or not before leaving Oregon in 1844
purchase any building at Vancouver?
"Ans. Yes; [ did, from one of the company's servants.
"Int. 39. What building and for what purposo?
"Ans. For the purpose of teaching Indians and the Indian
women, and children of the company's servants outside the
fort.
"Int. 40. State whether or not you used that building as a
place for the instruction of the Indians at Vancouver and in
its vicinity.
"Ans. Yes; we did.
"Int. 41. When (lid you buy that building?
VOL. CLuVI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"Ans. I think in 1839 or 1840.
"Int. 42. Was it in use by you for the same purpose up to
the time you left Oregon in 1844?
"Ans. That I can't say; I suppose it was.
"Int. 43. On your retur to Vancouver in 1847 in what
condition did you find this mission station, and who was, if
any one, in charge as the missionary priest?
"Ans. I found the mission station in charge of Vicar General Demers.
"Int. 44. Where were the religious services then held ?
"Ans. In the present church building.
"Int. 45. Since then do you know whether any repairs or
improvements have been made upon this building; and, if
yea, by whom and when ?
" Ans. I have been told that some repairs have been made;
of my own knowledge I know repairs have been made of late
years. These repairs- have all been at the expense of the
Bishop of Nesqually.
"Int. 46. State whether or not there was a Catholic mission
station at Vancouver amongst the Indian tribes on the 14th
day of August, 1848.
" Ans. There was; Father Delavane was the head of the
station. Ile was appointed to this station in 1847 by me
after my arrival from Europe. This part of the country was
not a part of my diocese, but it was under my jurisdiction.
" Int. 47. Was it the same missionary station you had
founded in 1838 ?
"Ans. It was the same.
"Int. 48. Whether or not there has been a Catholic church
and service here since then until now.
"Ans. Yes, sir."
He stated that no Catholic priest was ever, by contract or
otherwise, a chaplain to the Hudson Bay Company at Vancouver; that the Hudson Bay Company granted them £100
per year as an acknowledgment of their services. Ie further
testified:
"Int. 72. From the time of your coming to the country in
'38 to the fall of 1844, where did you live when at Vancouver?

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY

v. GIBBON.

Opinion of the Court.

Inside of the pickets, in a room of the II. B. Co.
73. State whether or not you ever paid to the Co.
anything for your board.
"Ans. Never.
"Int. 74. State whether or not you ever offered to pay
them for your board.
"Ans. Yes, sir; when I had bought that little house we
were afraid to be too much charge to the Co. I told the
governor we would live outside and pay the expense of our
living. The answer made was that we were not a burden to
the 1-. B. Co. I said we were afraid we were troublesome
to the Co. The answer was as I have above stated. The
Co. or its officers were very kind and generous to us."
Cross-examination:
"Int. 2. In 1848 was the mission in possession of any land?
"Ans. it was in possession of the land where the church is.
"Int. 3. From what source did it get that land?
"Ans. From Mr. Douglas, who showed me the place. This
was done at my request, that we might have a more established place.
"Int. 4. Did the mission ever acquire any right to that
land except by the consent or permission of Mr. Douglas?
"Ans. No; it did not; there was no other way.
" Int. 5. has the mission ever claimed to exercise ownership over any part of the land except that on which the
church is built?
"Ans. No; we did not, except what was granted for the
church, and we expected to have a deed for the land from
the I-Iudson Bay Co. when the Co. could give one.
"Int. 6. In 1848 where did Mr! Delavane reside?
"Ans. Inside of the pickets of the fl. Bay Co.
"Int. 7. Where in 1849, and till he left?
"Ans. In the same place.
"Int. 8. Did you or any other priest before 1850 live anywhere about Vancouver except within the Co.'s pickets ?
Ans. No, sir.
"Int. 9. From whom did you buy the small house spoken
of by you in your testimony?
"Ans.

"Int.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"Ans. I don't recollect the name.
" Int. 10. Where was it ?
"Ans. West of the fort.
"it.
11. Did not the company own all the buildings
occupied by its servants?
" Ans. I think not. They belonged to the servants and
they sold them.
"Int. 12. Did you buy any land with the house?
"Ans. No, sir.
"it.
13. Did you buy anything but the use of the house?
Ans. I bought the house.
"Int. 14. Did the company know you bought it?
" Ans. I suppose they did.
l"it. 15. How much did you give for it?
"Ans. Between twenty and twenty-five dollars.
"it. 16. Who erected the church?
"Ans. The Hudson's Bay Company or Mr. Douglas.
"Int. 17. Did you ever pay anything for its erection?
Ans. No, sir."

We have quoted thus fully from the testimony of this
witness, because of his early and continued relations to the
church work at Vancouver, and because the other testimony
offered in behalf of the plaintiff is really nothing more than
in corroboration. It discloses very clearly what was the
character of the mission establishment at Vancouver, what
its occupation was, and what the extent of its work and its
relation to the Hudson Bay Company.
Under the treaty of June 15, 1846, between the governments of the United States qnd Great Britain it was provided :
" The possessory rights of the IHudson's Bay Company and
of all British subjects who may be already in the occupation
of land or other property lawfully acquired within the said
territory, shall be respected." 9 Stat. 870.
On July 1, 1863, another treaty was concluded between the
parties, which, reciting that "it is desirable that all questions
between the United States authorities on the one hand, and
the Hudson's Bay and Puget's Sound Agricultural Companies
on the other, with respect to the possessory rights and claims

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

of those companies, and of any other -British subjects in
Oregon and Washington Territory, should be settled by the
transfer of those rights and claims to the government of the
United States for all adequate money consideration," provided
for the appointment of a commission to examine and decide
upon all such claims.
13 Stat. 651.
This commission
awarded $650,000 in full satisfaction of these claims, which
award was accepted by the United States, and on July 11,
1870, a joint resolution was passed, making an appropriation
on account thereof. 16 Stat. 386.
In May, 1849, Major Hathaway, of the United States army,
with a company of soldiers, arrived at Vancouver and rented
from the Hudson Bay Company buildings for quarters for his
troops, and, with the consent of the company, established a
camp upon the land in dispute. In October, 1850, Colonel
Loring, commanding the United States troops at that place,
issued a proclamation creating a military reservation four
miles square, with definite boundaries, and including this land.
This proclamation declared the reservation to be subject only to
the temporary possessory rights of the Hudson Bay Company,
and that all improvements within the limits of the reservation would be appraised and payment recommended. On December 8, 1854, Colonel Bonneville, commanding officer at
Vancouver, pursuant to instructions from the Secretary of
War, and in conformity to an act of Congress, approved(
February 14, 1853, (10 Stat. 158,) reduced the area of the
reservation to 640 acres, caused the same to be surveyed, and
new boundaries marked. At the same time the buildings
and improvements on the reservation, including the Catholic
church, were appraised by a board of military officers. On
May 16, 1853, the plaintiff asserted its claim to the land by
filing a notice thereof with the surveyor general of Oregon
Territor y. This application was followed up by proceedings
inthe land department, which resulted il a final decision by
the Secretary of the Interior on l\[arch 1 1, 1872, sustaining
the claim of the plaintiff to a small tract (less than half an
acre) upon which the building used as a church was situated,
and denying it as to the rest of the land. On the 15th of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

January, 1878, the President approved a final survey and plat
of the military reservation, confirmed the previous action ol
the War Department, and declared the reservation to be duly
set apart for military purposes.
Upon these facts, it may well be doubted whether the
decision of the Secretary of the Interior is not conclusive.
The act of Congress purports to confirm "tt h e title to the land,
not exceeding six hundred and forty acres, now occupied as
missionary stations." It is a question of fact whether there
was at Vancouver a missionary station, and also a like question,
if one existed, how much land it occupied. The rule is that in
the administration of the public lands the decision of the land
department upon questions of fact is conclusive, and only questions of law are reviewable in the courts. Johnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72 ; Varren v. Van -Brnt, 19 Wall. 646; Sh]ejpey v.
cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530 ; Marquez
v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473 ; Vance v. Barbanle, 101 U. S. 514;
Quinby v. (Jo'lan, 104 U. S. 420 ; Smelting Co. v. Kemn), 104
U. S. 636; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447; Baldwin v.
Stark, 107 U. S. 463; United States v. flfinor, 114 U. S. 233;
Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48 ; IVMih. v. Roseberry, 121 U. S.
488 ; Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691 ; 1Knight v. U. S.
Land Association, 142 U. S. 161 ; United States v. Calfornia
& Oregon Land Co., 148 U. S. 31 ; Barden v. Northern
Placific Railroad, 154 U. S. 288, 327.
While there may be no specific reference in the act of 1848
of questions arising under this grant to the land department,
yet its administration comes within the scope of the general powors vested in that department. Revised Statutes, section 441,
reads: "The Secretary of the Interior is charged with the
supervision of public business relating to the following subjects:
Second. The public lands, including mines." And
section 453 provides that " the Commissioner of the General
Land Otfice shall perform, under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, all executive duties appertaining to the survey
and sale of the public lands of the United States, or in anywise respecting such public lands, and, also, such as relate to
private claims of land."

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY

o. GIBBON.

Opinion of the Court.

Referring to this latter section, and particularly the clause
"under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior," it was
said by Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking for the court in _hcnight v.
-LandAssociation, 142 U. S. 161, 177 : " It means that, in the
important matters relating to the sale and disposition of the publie domain, the surveying of private land claims and the issuing of patents thereon, and the administration of the trusts
devolving upon the government, by reason of the laws of Congress or under treaty stipulations, respecting the public domain,
the Secretary of the Interior is the supervising agent of the
government to do justice to all claimants and preserve the
rights of the people of the United States." See also Barden
v. Northern Parcie Railroad,154 IT. S. 288, and cases cited
in the opinion. . It may be laid down as a general rule that, in
the absence of some specific provision to the contrary in respect to any particular grant of public land, its administration
falls wholly and absolutely within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the supervision of
the Secretary of the Interior. It is not necessary that with
each grant there shall go a direction that its administration
shall be under the authority of the land department. It falls
there unless there is express direction to the contrary.
But the contention of the plaintiff is that there was error in
the construction of the statute and in respect to a matter of
law. It not only concedes, but also insists, that the award to
the plaintiff of the ground upon which the church was situated amounts to a determination by the land department that
there was at the date of the act a Catholic mission at Vancouver, and, relying upon the authorities we have quoted, it claims
that such determination is conclusive as to that fact. It insists further, that the grant made by the proviso was of 640
acres, and says that the existence of a Catholic mission having
been as a matter of fact conclusively established, entitles the
plaintiff as a matter of law to the 640 acres surrounding the
mission. We do not so understand the terms of the grant.
It is not a grant certain of 640 acres. The language is " not
exceeding 640 acres." This places a limit in area beyond
which the grant may not go, but does not define what is

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

granted. For that we must look elsewhere in the proviso,
and the description is partly found in the words " now occupied." This is not a grant new and absolute of so many acres,
but a confirmation of rights flowing, or supposed to flow, from
occupancy. In Jfissionary Society v. Dalles, 107 U. S. 336,
343, this very question was before the court for consideration.
The facts in that case were that in 1836 the Methodist Episcopal Church established a missionary station at The Dalles, in
Oregon. In 1847 that church transferred the station to the
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. The
American Board continued in occupation for a short time, but
one of its missionaries having been murdered by the Indians,
it, through fear of Indian hostility, temporarily at least abandoned the mission, and at the date of the passage of the act
of August 14, 1848, there were no missionaries at The Dalles,
and no station in actual occupancy. The next year the American Board restored the station to the Methodist Episcopal
Church, and in June, 1850, the latter caused a survey to be
made of 640 acres, for the purpose of a claim under this provise. The court held that the claim of the applicant could
not be sustained, saying, after referring to the act: "The
words are ' now occupied.' To occupy means to hold in possession ; to hold or keep for use ; as to occupy an apartment.
Webster's Dictionary. The appellant contends that this act
confers title on it for lands which it did not occupy at the date
of the act, but which it had voluntarily abandoned eleven
months before, and the occupancy of which it never resumed,
either for missionary or any other purposes. Not even a liberal construction would support such a claim."
From this it appears that there must be occupancy, and the
extent of the occupancy is one limit of the grant. This occupancy must be independent and separate, and not inferior
and subordinate. It must be an occupancy in one's own right,
and not under and dependent upon another.
This act of Congress is not exceptional in its character but
in line with the general course of legislation in respect to the
settlement and development of our western territories. The
pioneer has always been regarded as entitled to favorable

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

consideration, and while his occupancy has not been deemed
of itself sufficient to establish title to the soil, yet it has been
held to give him certain possessory rights which are the subject of contract, and create a superior equity in respect to the
acquisition of title. Lamb v. Davenport,18 Wall. 307, illustrates this. In early days one Lownsdale settled upon a tract
of land in Oregon, on which is now the city of Portland. Certain transactions were had between him and others in respect
to that land prior to the acquisition of title, and the validity
of those transactions was the subject-matter of this litigation,
and in respect thereto the court said, on page 314:
"Of course, no legal title vested in any one by these proceedings, for that remained in the United States-all of
which was well known and undisputed. But it was equally
well known that these possessory rights, and improvements
placed on the,soil, were by the policy of the government generally protected, so far, at least, as to give priority of the right
to purchase whenever the land was offered for sale, and where
no special reason existed to the contrary. And though these
rights or claims rested on no statute, or any positive promise,
the general recognition of them in the end by the government, and its disposition to protect the meritorious actual
settlers, who were the pioneers of emigration in the new
territories, gave a decided and well-understood value to these
claims. They were the subjects of bargain and sale, and, as
among the parties to such contracts, they were valid. The
right of the United States to dispose of their own property
is undisputed, and to make rules by which the lands of the government may be sold or given away is acknowledged ; but, subject to these well-known principles, parties in possession of
the soil might make valid contracts, even concerning the title,
predicated upon the hypothesis that they might thereafter
lawfully acquire the title, except in cases where Congress had
imposed restrictions on such contracts."
Rector v. Gibbon, 4il U. S.276, is even more closely in point
In that case, three parties, Rector, Hale, and Gaines, had for a
series of years claimed lands adjacent to the I1ot Springs, in
the State of Arkansas. Finally, in a suit which came to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

court (Ihot Springs Cases, 92 IT. S. 698) it was adjudged that
neither of these claimants had any title to the land, but that
it still remained the property of the United States. Subsequently an act was passed (19 Stat. 377) for a survey of the
tract and the platting of the same into lots and blocks, and
providing that the commissioners appointed to make the survey and plat should "finally determine the right of each
claimant or occupant to purchase the same, or any portion
thereof, at the appraised value, which shall be fixed by the
commissioners." One Ballantine was in occupation of certain
premises under a lease from Rector, one of the claimants.
The commissioners awarded the right of purchase to Ballantine, but this court held such award erroneous, and that the
right of purchase was in Rector, the landlord, the court
saying, on page 283:
"The government did not treat him and the other claimants
as wanton intruders on the public domain, for then it might
have ejected them by force. Instead of that it authorized
proceedings for a judicial ascertainment of the merits of their
respective claims. The act of 1877 embraces, therefore, tnder
the designation of claimants and occupants, those who had
made improvements, or claimed possession under an assertion
of title or a right of preemption by reason of their location
or settlement. It was for their benefit that the act was
passed, in order that they should not entirely forfeit their
claims from location or settlement and their improvements,
but should have, except as to the portions reserved, the right
of purchase. Parties succeeding, by operation of law or by
conveyance, to the possession of such claimants and occupants,
would succeed also to their rights. But lessees under a claimant or occupant, holding the property for him, and bound by
their stipulation to surrender it on the termination of their
lease, stand in no position to claim an adverse and paramount
right of purchase. Their possession is in law his possession.
The contract of lease implies not only a recognition of his
title, but a promise to surrender the possession to himn on the
termination of the lease. They, therefore, whilst retaining
possession, are estopped to deny his rights. Blight's Lessee v.
Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535.

BISHOP OF NESQUALLY v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

"This rule extends to every person who enters under lessees
with knowledge of the terms of the lease, whether by operation of law or by purchase and assignment. The lessees in
this case, and those deriving their interest under them, could,
therefore, claim nothing against the plaintiff by virtue either
of their possession, for it was in law his possession, or of their
improvements, for they were in law his improvements, and
entitled him to all the benefits they conferred, whether by
prelimption or otherwise."
So, in the act before us, Congress, recognizing certain possessory rights, flowing from occupancy, made a donation to
the occupant of the premises so occupied to the extent of not
exceeding 640 acres. That this was a donation instead of a
grant of the right to purchase is immaterial. The donation
feature was inserted because of the benefits supposed to flow
from the religious work of the mission, and proceeded upon
the same principle that exempts from taxation the property of
religious organizations. But the occupancy which was contemplated was an independent occupancy - one exercised by
the mission in its own right. No such occupation appears
here. The real occupant was the Hudson Bay Company; it
had the possessory right. It had been in occupation long
before the coming of the two missionaries, and whatever occupation the mission station had was under and by permission
of the Hudson Bay Company. It was no more than a tenant
at will or by sufferance. The United States, by treaty prior
to this act, guaranteed to protect the possessory rights of the
Hudson Bay Company, and it cannot be supposed that they
intended by this act to ignore those rights and grant away
the land to those who occupied under the company and by its
sufferance. If it be said that by giving permission to the putchaser to build a church and occupy it the Iludson Bay
Company vacated and surrendered its own possession, it only
did so to the extent of the ground actually occupied by such
church and buildings. So, if the award by the Secretary of
the Interior is a decision that there was in fact a Catholic
mission at Yancouver, it is also a decision of the further fact
that its occupation was limited to the tract awarded. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Appellant.

is nothing in the record to impeach his action, and if the question were an open one, and to be tried de novo, there is in the
record no sufficient testimony to justify any other conclusion.
The situation is not dissimilar to that which would arise if
some religious organization should come into the city of
Washington and acquire title to a certain lot, and erect
thereon a building. No one would think of saying that
thereby it became the occupant of the city. Its occupation
would be limited to the lot it bought and placed its building
upon.
These considerations are decisive of this case. The decree
-of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

TEALL v. SCHRODER.
APPEAL

FROM

TUE1I

CIRCUIT

THE NORTHERN
No. 272.

COURT OF
DISTRICr

Arguod April 9, 1595.

TIE UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF CALIFORNIA.
1)ecided Muy 1, 1595.

When a power of attorney to sell and convey lands of the donor of the
power, duly executed, is placed on record in the State in which the lands
are situated, in the place provided by law for that purpose, and sales and
transfers of the lands covered by the power are made by the donee of
the power, and are in like manner placed on record, all persons interested,
whether residing in the State or elsewhere, are charged with the necessary knowledge on those subjects, and are held to all the consequences
following its acquisition.
'Whenever property is claimed by one owner, and lie exercises acts of ownership over it and the validity of such acts is not questioned by his iieighhors till after the lapse of many years when the statute of limitations
has run, and those who, for any apparent defects in the title to the property, would naturally be most interested in enforcing their claims, make
no objection thereto, a fair presumption arises, from the conduct of
the parties, that the title of the holders and claimants of the property is
correctly stated by theln.

TIle case is stated in the opinion.

iMr. II. M. Foole for appellants. Air. George 1i. Sears and
Ab,. F. P. Dewees were with him on his brief.

