OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

vision in ยง 363 that the Attorney General shall, whenever the
public interest requires it, employ and retain, in the name of
the United States, such attorneys and counsellors at law as he
may think necessary to assist the district attorneys in the discharge of their duties, and shall stipulate with such assistant
attorneys and counsel the amount of compensation, but this
evidently does not contemplate that the district attorney himself shall be so employed. It is essential to the interests of
the government that in all suits, criminal and civil, in which it
is interested, the Attorney General shall be at liberty to call
upon the district attorney to represent it, and his compensation therefor, whether measured by the fee bill or not, is
clearly a part of the fees and emoluments of his office. This
disposes not only of the $225 included in the unpaid balance
of $4339.46, but also of the $595, which is also subject to the
additional defence that it has been disallowed by the Attorney General.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore
Affirmed.

SHIPMAN v. STRAITSVILLE CENTRAL MINING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
No. 306.

Argued April 24, 1895. -Decided

STATES

FOR TIE

01110.
May 20,1895.

The fact that no such officer as master commissioner is known to the law
does not impair the validity of a reference to a person as such.
The findings of a referee having been ordered to stand as the findings of
the court, the only question before this court is whether the facts
found by him sustain the judgment.
As the case was not tried by the Circuit Court upon a waiver in writing of
a trial by jury, this court cannot review exceptions to the admission or
exclusion of evidence, or to findings of fact by the referee, or to his
refusal to find facts as requested.
S. and three other parties contracted on the 24th of June, 1879, as follows:
I S. agrees to represent tile entire interests and sales of the coal of the

other three parties aforesaid in the trade that may be denominated tile

SHIPMAN

v. STRAITSVILLE MINING CO.

35Z

Statement of the Case.
Detroit trade by rail or by vessel to Detroit, or to and through Detroit,
Michigan; that he will confine himself to the use and handling of their
coal alone in all his sales of soft coal for whatever use or purpose or
market, taking the same from them in equal quantities; that he will turn
in all his present trade and orders on their coal at the price of seventy
cents pet' ton at the mines, and that lie will take care of all freights and
pay them for their coal by the 20th of the month next after each separate
month's delivery to him at the mines of said other three parties, and that
lie will labor to improve the market price of said coal, giving to said parties
the advantage of whatever improvement may be made in the market for
said coal, asking no greater part of such increase himself than shall be
his fair proportion thereof, and that he will keep his books, sales, and contracts of coal all open to their inspection at all times. Said other abovenamed parties agree to sell coal to no one to conflict with the interests of
said S. under this agreement, and that they will aid and encourage the
trade of said S. in all lawful ways in their power, so long as he shall confine
his sales and operations in soft coal to the product of their mines."

Held,
(1) That the contract was a several one as between S. and the three
other parties, and that an action would lie in favor of either of
those parties without joining the others ;
(2) That the agreement included all contracts and orders which S. theu
had, whether for the immediate or future delivery of coal, but did
not bind the other parties to fill contracts made by him subsequent to June 24, at 70 cents per ton;
(3) That the three parties were bound to furnish S. coal to fill contracts
made by him for future delivery, at the market price of coal at
Detroit at the time Shipman made such contracts, and not at the
market price at the time of the delivery of such coal by the coinpanies to Shipman, from time to time, during the existence of
such contracts.

Tins was a case originally instituted in the Court of Common
Pleas of Franklin County, Ohio, by the defendant in error,
to recover a balance of $19,564.89, claimed to be due on account
of goods sold and delivered. Upon the petition of Shipman,
a citizen of Michigan, the case was removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States, where an affidavit was filed, admitting payments by defendant, after the commencement of
suit, aggregating $13,017.90, leaving still claimed the sum of
$6446.90, with interest thereon.
Defendant filed his answer, setting up a counter-claim, and
alleging that the plaintiff had agreed to sell and deliver all the
coal from its Sugar Creek lower vein, or so much as defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

should need for his Michigan trade for one year from the date
of the contract, May 28, 1879, at certain prices; that defendant needed much more coal than was furnished during that
period, and that the price of coal as charged exceeded the
contract price by the sum of $4991.64. The answer further
alleged that, relying on this contract, he agreed to sell coal in
Michigan at prices giving him but a small profit; that he
informed plaintiff of these contracts, and plaintiff agreed
to furnish enough coal to fill them, but failed to do so, by
reason whereof defendant was obliged to purchase of other
parties at higher prices than those at which plaintiff had
agreed to sell, whereby he suffered damages in the sum of
$10,000, in addition to the overpayment above mentioned.
Plaintiff replied to this answer, denying the counter-claims
set up by the defendant, and admitting the payment of
$13,017.90 since the commencement of suit.
Somewhat more than eighteen months thereafter, defendant filed an amended answer, reiterating his former defences,
and increasing the amount claimed for damages and counterclaim to $20,921.11.
Plaintiff filed a reply to this amended answer, claiming that
on June 24, 1879, defendant entered into an agreement which
abrogated the agreement of May 28, 1879, under which defendant claimed. That this agreement was entered into
between Shipman on the one part, the Straitsville Coal
Company, the Straitsville Central Mining Company, and
J. S. Doe & Co. of the other part; and that it was understood
thereby that this contract superseded all other contracts between the parties relating to the coal trade. That, by its
terms, plaintiff was to furnish one-third of the coal called for,
and no more, at the market price for such coal for the time
being at its mines, except so far as the defendant's then
present trade and orders were concerned, which were to be
filled at the price to him of seventy cents per ton at the mines,
each of the parties to the agreement furnishing one-third of
the coal necessary therefor.
This contract, the construction of which is the material feature of this case, is as follows :

SHIPMAN v. STIAITSVILLE MINING CO.

359

Statement of the Case.

"O. W. Shipman, Straitsville Coal Co., Straitsville Central
Mining Company, and J. S. Doe & Co. agree with each other
as follows:
"Shipman agrees to represent the entire interests and sales
of the coal of the other three parties aforesaid in the trade
that may be denominated the Detroit trade by rail or by vessel to Detroit, or to and through Detroit, Michigan; that he
will confine himself to the use and handling of their coal
alone in all his sales of soft coal for whatever use or purpose
or market, taking the same from them in equal quantities;
that h will turn in all his present trade and orders on their
coal at the price of seventy cents per ton at the mines, and
that he will take care of all freights and pay them for their
coal by the 20th of the month next after each separate month's
delivery to him at the mines of said other three parties, and
that he will labor to improve the market price of said coal,
giving to said parties the advantage of whatever improvement may be made in the market for said coal, asking no
greater part of such increase himself than shall be his fair
proportion thereof, and that he will keep his books, sales, and
contracts of coal all open to their inspection at all times.
Said other above-named parties agree to sell coal to no one
to conflict with the interests of said Shipman under this agreement, and that they will aid and encourage the trade of said
Shipman in all lawful ways in their power, so long as he shall
confine his sales and operations in soft coal to the product of
their mines.
"Given under our hands this 24th day of June, A.D. 1879."
[Signed.]
By consent of parties in open court an order was entered
June 18, 1883, referring the case for trial to Richard A. iarrison, "a master commissioner of this court," who was directed
to report the testimony with his findings of fact and of law,
separately stated, to the court.
In December, 1884, the referee made a finding of facts, and
propounded to the court five questions of law upon such facts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

viz.: (1) Whether the contract of June 24, 1879, superseded
that of May 28. (2) Whether such contracts were joint or
several. (3) As to the meaning of the clause "that he will turn
in all his present trade and orders on their coal at the price of
seventy cents per ton at the mines." (4) Whether the three
companies were required to furnish defendant coal to fill con,
tracts made by him for future delivery, at the market price
of coal in Detroit at the time defendant made such contracts,
and not at the market price at the time such coal was actually
delivered by the plaintiff to the defendant. (5) Whether the
contract was terminable at the will of either party.
Answers were made to these questions by the court,.and on
May 23, 1886, the referee made his report, applying the law
as declared by the court, and awarding the plaintiff the sum
of $230.74, with interest from August 1, 1880. In the meantime defendant had filed a second amended answer, to which
plaintiff replied, and to a portion of this reply defendant
demurred.
Both parties excepted to the findings of the referee. The
court passed upon the exceptions, reconsidered the questions
of law submitted by the referee, reaffirming the answers given,
except to the fourth question, declaring that the former answer to this question was wrong, giving a new answer, and
recommitting the case to the referee.
December 13, 1889, the referee filed a supplemental report,
applying the interpretation of the contract given by the court
to the facts as found, and finding the amount due plaintiff
.to be $9282.81. This report was approved and confirmed,
and it was ordered that the findings of the master stand as
the findings of the court. Thereupon the court gave judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of $9282.81, with interest
from December 3, 1889. Defendant subsequently procured
a bill of exceptions to be settled, and sued out a writ of error
from this court.
Mr. Frederic D. MJctenney for plaintiff in error.
Alfred Russell and Mr. . _. De Wilt were on his brief.
Xr. J. Iloldsworth Gordon for defendant in error.

f/i.

SHIPMAN v. STRAITSVILLE MINING CO.

361

Opinion of the Court.
AIR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

1. This case 'wasreferred by consent to Mr. Harrison, a socalled "master commissioner," as referee, with instructions
to report the testimony, with the findings of fact and of law,
to the court. The fact that no such officer as master commissioner is known to the law does not impair the validity of
the reference, as it is perfectly competent for the court to
refer a case to a private person. Ieakers v. Fowler, 2 Wall.
123. And, as the court in its judgment ordered his findings
to stand as the findings of the court, the only questions before
this court are whether the facts found by the referee sustain
the judgment. As the case was not tried by the Circuit Court
upon a waiver in writing of a trial by jury, this court cannot
review exceptions to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or
to findings of fact by the referee, or to his refusal to find facts
as requested. Robeq'8 v. BenJagnin, 124 U. S. 64; Boogher v.
Insurance Oo., 103 U. S. 90 ; Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604;
Paine v. Central Vermont Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 152;
Andes v. Slawson, 130 U. S. 435.
There are eighteen assignments of error, but as most of
them are taken to the action of the referee, they need not be
further noticed.
2. The court below was of opinion that the contract in
question was a several one as between Shipman and the
three other parties, and hence that an action would lie in
favor of either of these parties without joining the others.
Three separate actions were in fact brought against him..
There is nothing in the contract indicating that the three
parties were connected in any way, except that each was to
furnish an equal quantity of coal. They are spoken of in
the contract as "the other three parties," as if it were intended
that each of 'them should stand for himself. If either of them
had failed to furnish his quota of coal, Shipman might have
brought an action against him; but it is clear that if he had
sued them jointly for such default, the two others might
answer that they had done all that they agreed to do, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

could not be held liable for the default of the third. These
parties did not agree to furnish any definite amount of coal,
but merely that they would ship the defendant the product of
their mines in equal quantities. Separate orders were.given
by Shipman, and separate bills were rendered by the companies for coal shipped upon such orders; and there is nothing
to indicate that either of the parties to the contract treated
it as involving a joint liability. ilall v. Leight, 8 Cranch, 50.
If Shipman had settled with plaintiff according to the account
rendered by it in this case, it seems to us that it could not be
seriously contended that the other parties could not sue him
for the coal furnished by them without joining the plaintiff.
3. The principal controversy in this case, however, grows
out of that clause of the contract which requires of Shipman
" that he will turn in all his present trade and orders on their
coal at the price of 70 cents per ton at the mines." In this
connection, the referee asked the advice of the court, as to
whether this meant that the three companies should furnish
coal at 70 cents per ton at the mines, to fill only such orders and
contracts as Shipman then had, (June 24, 1879,) for iingnediate
delivery of coal ; or, that they should furnish it at that price
to fill all such contracts and orders, whether for immediate
orfuture delivery; or, whether they should furnish it to fill
all contracts which Shipman then had, or might thereafter
make, before the market price of coal advanced, with parties
who had previously been customers of his; and, whether this
was limited to those who were previously customers of his or
not.
The fourth question put by the referee was whether, viewing all the provisions of the contract, the companies were
required to furnish Shipman coal to fill contracts made by
him for future delivery at the market price of coal in Detroit
at the time Shipman made such contracts, and not at the
price at the time such coal was actually delivered by the
plaintiffs to Shipman from time to time during the existence
of such contracts.
The court answered the third question that the clause
quoted included all contracts and orders, which Shipman then

SHIPMAN v. STRAITSVILLE MINING CO.

363

Opinion of the Court.

had, whether for the immediate or future delivery of coal,
but did not bind the companies to fill contracts made by Shipman subsequent to June 24, at 70 cents per ton. It at first
answered the fourth question, that the three companies were
bound to furnish Shipman coal to fill contracts made by him
for future delivery, at the market price of coal at Detroit at
the time Shipman made such contracts, and not at the market
price at the time of the delivery of such coal by the companies
to Shipman, from time to time, during the existence of such
contracts. Upon the basis of these answers, the referee found
a balance of $230.74: due from the defendant to the plaintiff,
with interest from August 1, 1880.
Exceptions were taken by both parties to the report of the
referee, when the court, reaffirming its answers to the first,
second, and third questions, reached the conclusion that the
answer to the fourth question was wrong, and that the true
answer was that, excepting contracts within the designation
of " present trade and orders," which the contract of June
24, 1879, required Shipman to turn in at the price of 70 cents
per ton at the mine, the three companies named in the contract were not bound to furnish him coal to fill contracts made
by him for future delivery at the market price of coal at
Detroit at the time when Shipman made such contracts, but
that they were entitled to the market price at the date of the
actual sale of such coal by them to Shipman, less his " fair
proportion" of any advance in the price, as specified in the
contract.
In determining the correct answer to this question, it is
proper to consider the situation of the parties and the surrounding circumstances. For some years prior to June 24,
1879, defendant Shipman had been extensively engaged in
the business of buying and selling coal in the Detroit market,
and had from time to time purchased considerable coal for
that market from the plaintiff. The two other parties to the
contract had also, prior to such date, established a coal office
in Detroit and competed with Shipman for the Detroit trade.
At the date of this written contract, and for some time before
and since then, there existed at Detroit a usage or custom

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court,

among coal dealers and their larger customers to make contracts for the sale and delivery of coal at a stipulated price
for the year next ensuing, and this usage or custom was known
to all the parties to this contract when they entered into it.
At the date of this contract the price of lump coal was 70
cents, and of nut coal 25 cents per ton, at the mines. After
the execution of this contract the th'ee respectively shipped
coal to defendant at Detroit, and to his customers on his
orders, and separate accounts were kept both by Shipman
and the plaintiffs respectively of the coal shipped by each.
Monthly bills were rendered by them respectively to defendant, in which they charged for the coal shipped prior to October 1, 1879, at the rate of 70 cents for lump and 25 cents for
nut coal, and for all coal, both lump and nut, shipped after
October 1, 1879, bills were rendered to defendant at the
market price, which was largely in excess of 70 and 25 cents.
There appears to have been a slight advance in coal at the
mines some time in July or August, and in the account rendered in August by the plaintiff, defendant was charged 75
cents per ton for lump coal. le called the attention of the
company to the fact, and the company, in the September
account, credited the defendant with the 5 cents per ton
overcharge.
As the contract made no mention of the price to be charged,
except so far as concerned coal furnished to fill orders in existence at the time of the contract, it would follow that the
plaintiff was at liberty to charge the defendant the current
market price at the mines at the time of each delivery. In
view, however, of the custom of the coal trade at Detroit to
make contracts for the sale and delivery of coal at a stipulated
price, for the year next ensuing, and in view of the fact that
this custom was known to all the parties to this contract at
the time they entered into it, it may fairly be presumed that
the contract was made with reference to that custom. The
fact that the companies reserved to themselves the power to
inspect defendant's books, sales, and contracts for coal at all
times, while the contract remained in force, is somewhat
inconsistent with the idea that they had no interest in any

SHIPMAN v. STRAITSVILLE

MINING CO.

Opinion of the Court.

contracts made by him after June 24, and only contemplated
selling him at the market price. The fact that he had agreed
to labor to improve the market price of coal, giving the other
parties the advantage of whatever improvement might be
made in the market, to which the companies were to lend
their aid and encouragement, tends to show that the relations
between them were different from those between an ordinary
vendor and vendee. Indeed, the fact that the contract provides that he was to represent the entire interests and sales of
the companies in the Detroit trade; that le could only sell
soft coal received from them; that he was to labor for the
improvement of the market, and if he succeeded in raising
the price, that he was to receive only a fair proportion of such
increase, indicates rather the relation of partners or of principal and agent than that of vendor and vendee. If this were
the case, the companies would be bound by his contracts,
made within the scope of his authority and according to the
custom of the )etroit trade. It can hardly be supposed,
under this contract, that if Shipman were to make an agreement, say July 1, 1879, to deliver one thousand tons during
the next year at a given price, and coal was to rise immediately thereafter, he would be obliged to -pay the companies
the increased price, and still sell to his customers at the contract price-in other words, to sustain the whole loss himself; inasmuch as he was representing their interests in
Detroit, was obliged to submit to them his books and contracts for their inspection, and in case of an improvement
in the market was obliged to account to them for their fair
proportion of the increase. On the other hand, if coal fell
after the contract was made, and it had proved to be a profitable one, it would seem to have been the expectation of the
parties that he should only receive his fair proportion of such
profit.
It is unnecessary to characterize or define this contract or
to say whether it created the relation of vendor and vendee,
principal and agent, or a partnership, as it possesses some
features characteristic of each of them. But, although it is
very ambiguous and indefinite, and was evidently not drawn

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

by any one learned in the law, we think the answer first given
by the court to the fourth question corresponds better with
its true meaning and intent, and that the companies were
bound to furnish defendant coal to fill contracts for future
delivery at the market price of coal in Detroit at the time he
made such contracts.
So far as Shipman's "fair proportion" of an increase is concerned, we see no distinction between nut and lamp.
This covers all the questions properly raised by the record
in this case, and the result is that the judgment of the court
below must be
Reversed, and the ease remanded for further proceedings in
conforuily with this opinion.
MR. JuSTicE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

EBY v. KING.
APPEAL

FROM THE
THE
No. 336.

CIRCUIT
NORTHERN

COURT

OF

DISTRICT

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF ILLINOIS.

Argued May 1, 2, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1S95.

Reissued letters patents No. 7851, granted August 21, 1877, to Henry H. Eby
for an improvement in cob-carriers for corn-shellers are void, as being
for a different invention from that described and claimed in the original
letters, specification, and claim.
It is doubtful whether the Commissioner of Patents has jurisdiction to consider and act upon an application for a surrender of letters patent and
reissue, when there is only the bare statement that the patentee wishes
to surrender his patent and obtain a reissue.
Whether, when a patent has been surrendered and reissued, and such reissue
is held to be void, the patentee may proceed upon his original patent, is
considered and discussed, but is not decided.

Tiis was a bill in equity to recover damages for the infringement of reissued letters patent No. 7851, granted August 21,

