OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

BOSTON

AND

ERROR TO THE

ALBANY RAILROAD
v. O'REILLY.

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

COMPANY

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 197.

Submitted March 15, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

Where a case has gone to a hearing, testimony been admitted to a jury under
objection but without stating any reasons for the objection, and a verdict
rendered, with judgment on the verdict, the losing party cannot, in the
appellate court, state for the first time a reason for that objection which
would make it good.
Evidence offered by the plaintiff to show the profits of his business and admitted under objections is held not to be such as to enable the jury to intelligently perform its duty of finding the earnings of the plaintiff after
allowing for interest on capital invested, and for the energy and skill of
his partners.
Other evidence, admitted under objections, held to be too uncertain to be
made the basis for damagN, and to have probably worked substantial
injury to the rights of the defendant.
While an appellate court will not disturb a judgment for an immaterial error,
yet it should appear beyond a doubt that the error complained of did not
and could not have prejudiced the rights of the party duly objecting.

IN October, 1890, Patrick J. O'Reilly, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, brought
an action against the Boston and Albany Railroad Company
for personal injuries received while riding as a passenger on
one of that company's trains.
The declaration contained three counts, alleging negligence
on the part of the company in respect to the condition of a
certain truck attached to the tender of the engine which drew
the train, in respect to the journal of the tender, and in respect to the condition of the defendant's track, rails, and
roadbed. The defendant's answer consisted of a general
denial. The trial resulted in a verdict for the sum of $15,000,
and to the judgment entered for that amount a writ of error
was sued out of this court.
A r. Samuel Htoar for plaintiff in error.
jXr. Charles IT. Needham, Mr. John B. Cotton, and Mr.
f'anlc .JWashburn for defendant in error.

BOSTON & ALBANY RAILROAD v. O'REILLY.

335

Opinion of the Court.
Mn. JUSTICE SHIIAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The first three specifications of error complain of the action
of the court in permitting the plaintiff O'Reilly to testify as
to what he had made out of his business for several years
before the accident, and to give an estimate of how much he
made annually by his own individual exertion; and also, in
view of the fact that he had sold the business, good will, and
everything connected with the business before the accident
occurred, to testify that when he so sold out he did it with the
intention of continuing the business.
The first objection urged to the admission of this evidence
is, that it went to show special damage caused to the plaintiff
by the loss and interruption of his business, whereas there were
no allegations of such special damage contained in the declaration. It does not appear, however, that objection was specifically made to the evidence on the ground that the declaration
contained no allegations of the special damage sought to be
shown; and it is perfectly well settled in this court that
where a case has gone to a hearing, testimony been admitted
to a jury under objection, but without stating any reasons for
the objection, and a verdict rendered, with judgment on the
verdict, the losing party cannot, in the appellate court, state,
for the first time, a reason for that objection which would
make it good. Bobe,4t8 v. Graham, 6 Wall. 578; Patrick v.
Graham, 132 U. S. 627.
Objections were made in the present case to the admission
of the evidence in question, but such objections did not, in our
judgment, apprise the court of the specific ground of objection
now urged, and hence did not afford an opportunity of permitting an amendment of the declaration, upon such terms as
the interests of justice seem to require.
If, then, this were the only ground on which we are asked
to proceed in disposing of these assigmnents of errors, we
should not feel disposed to disturb the judgment. But when
we come to examine the objections that were sufficiently taken
to the evidence in question, we find error so serious as to
compel a reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff was permitted to make an estimate of the
annual value of his labor and the jury to find a verdict, based
upon the business of a steam thresher in which the plaintiff at
one time had an interest, but which he had parted with before
he met his injuries. Even if his interest had continued as an
existing one till the time of the accident, and even if there had
been an allegation of special damage in the declaration, there
was no evidence sufficient to enable the jury to measure the
amount of saidt special damage. The plaintiff testified that he
had partners, who divided with him, but did not state in what
proportions. The amounts alleged to have been earned in the
business fluctuated widely. There was no allowance made for
the cost and wear of the machinery. The duty of the jury to
find the wages or earnings of the plaintiff, after allowing for
the interest on the capital invested and for the energy and
skill of the partners, could not, in the absence of evidence on
those topics, have been intelligently performed.
It is said that the court made no ruling that the plaintiff
might prove the profits of his business, and in the bill of exceptions it is so stated. Still, the fact remains that the evidence
was admitted, although objected to as incompetent, because
the profits of the business, as it was proposed to show them,
depended upon so many outside matters, and were too remote.
It further appears that, after having been permitted to put
in an estimate of what his personal earnings were from participation in the threshing business, and after it appeared that
such business had been brought to a close by the sale of the
machine and the good will the fall before the accident, the
plaintiff was permitted, under objection, to testify that when
he sold out he did it with an intention of resuming the business. To resume such a business would, of course, have required the purchase of another plant, and it is equally obvious
that the fate of a new venture was merely conjectural. Such
evidence is too uncertain to be made the basis of a verdict for
damages, and may well be believed to have worked substantial
injury to the rights of the defendant. Richmond & Danville
Railroad v. Elliott, 149 U. S. 266.
The fourth, eighth, and ninth specifications allege error in

PARK BANK v.

ItEMSEN.

Syllabus.

the court permitting the nurse and physician to testify that the
plaintiff told them, some time after the accident, that a piece
of nail had come out of his knee, and in permitting the physician to point out upon the plaintiff's knee the scar of the hole
out of which the plaintiff had told him the nail had come.
These matters could not fairly be regarded as part of the res
geske but were mere hearsay. Vicksburg & Meridian -Railroad v. O'Brien, 119 U. S. 99.
If the record disclosed no other error, the admission of this
evidence might have been passed by as immaterial. Still, it is
impossible to say that the defendant's case was not injuriously
affected by the admission of the evidence, and, while an appellate court will not disturb a judgment for an immaterial error,
yet it should appear beyond a doubt that the error complained
of did not and could not have prejudiced the rights of the party
duly objecting. Deery v. Cray, 5 Wall. 795, 807; Gilmner v.
Higley, 110 U. S. 47.
We do not deem it necessary to notice other exceptions
taken to the rulings of the court below.
Dihe judgmnent is reversed, and the cause remandedwith directions to set aside the verdict, and award a new trial.

PARK BANK v. REMSEN.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

SOUTHERN
No. 316.

OF THE

UNITED

DISTRICT OF NEW

Argued April 29, 1895. -Decided

STATES

FOR

THE

YORK.
May 20, 1895.

The rulings of the Court of Appeals of New York, unanimously made, that
the warehouse company did not become indebted to the plaintiff by
reason of its endorsement of the notes which form the basis of this
action, as the company was an accommodation endorser, of which fact
the plaintiff was chargeable with notice, and that the liability of Rem-

sen, as trustee of the company, was not primary, but secondary and
dependent altogether upon a statute of that State of a penal character,
ought to be recognized in every court as, at least, most persuasive,
although the case in which the ruling was made has not yet gone to final

judgment.
VOL. CLVIII-22

