OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

TODD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

DISTRICT COURT OF
NORTIERN DISTRICT

No. 822.

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THIE

OF ALABAMA.

Argued March 26,1895.- Decided May 20, 1895.

A preliminary examination before a commissioner of a Circuit Court is not
a case pending in any court of the United States, within the meaning of
Rev. Stat. § 5406.
TODD and others were indicted under section 5406 of the
Revised Statutes, reading as follows:
"If two or more persons in any State or Territory conspire
to deter, by force, intimidation, or threat, any party or witness,
in any court of the United States from attending such court,
or from testifying to any matter pending therein, freely, fully,
and truthfully, or to injure such party or witness in his person
or property, on account of his having so attended or testified,
. . . each of such persons shall be punished by a fine of
not less than five hundred nor more than five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment, with or without hard labor, not less than
six months nor more than six years, or by both such fine and
imprisonment."
The indictment stated:
"That heretofore, etc., J. W. Todd, alias Watson Todd;
George W. Kelley, [etc., naming plaintiffs in error and others,]
whose Christian names and surnames, respectively, are to this
grand jury otherwise unknown, unlawfully, corruptly, forcibly,
and feloniously did combine, conspire, and confederate together,
by force and intimidation and threats, to injure Wiley Pruett,
and William Pruett, who had theretofore been witnesses and
testified against Joe Arnold, Milton Farmer, and George
Kelley upon a charge of endeavoring to influence, intimidate,
and impdde witnesses in a court of the United States, in violation of the criminal laws of the United States, tried preliminarily by and before Robert Charlson, acting as a commissioner
of the Circuit Court of the United States for said district, in

TODD v. UNITED STATES.
Mr. Solicitor General's Argument for the United States.

their person and property on account of the said witnesses above
named having testified in said cause in the said court as
aforesaid, and in pursuance of said conspiracy and to effect the
object thereof the said defendants and each of them did assault,
beat, bruise, and wound with weapons the said Wiley Pruett
and William Pruett, contrary," etc.
A demurrer to the indictment was interposed and overruled,
and a nolleprosegui having been entered as to certain defendants, Todd, Roberts, and Mitchell, and ten others, were tried
and convicted, and a motion in arrest of judgment having
been made and denied, were each sentenced to imprisonment
at hard labor for four years and payment of $500 and costs.
Thereupon they sued out a writ of error from this court.
The case was argued on the 26th of March, 1895, by Mr.
John C. Fay for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Whitney for the defendants in error. On
the 29th of the following April leave was granted by the court
to counsel to file briefs within four days upon the question
whether a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United
States, when holding a preliminary examination, may be
regarded as a "court of the United States," within section
5406 of the Revised Statutes. Such briefs were filed.

Mr. John C. Fay for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Solicitor General for the United States.
By an order made on April 29th, leave was given counsel
to file briefs upon the question whether a commissioner of
the Circuit Court of the United States, when holding a
preliminary examination, may be regarded as a "court of the
United States" within section 5406 of the Revised statutes.
The definition of the powers of a commissioner of a Circuit
Court is stated but meagrely and diffusely in the statutes,
That he exercises judicial functions, has been repeatedly
recognized by the decisions of this court. United States v.
Jones, 134 U. S. 483, 486. That he is not a court within
the meaning of Sec. 1 of Art. III of the Constitution is

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Solicitor General's Argument for the United States.

apparent.
No part of the judicial power of the United
States is vested in him within the meaning of that artield
of tlhe Constitution.
In the case of 1n re Luis Oleiza y Cortes, 136 U. S.330,
petition for a writ of habeas coi:pas, the Consul General of
Spain at the city of New York filed a complaint on oath
before a duly authorized United States commissioner, charging that one Luis Oteiza y Cortes was secretary or clerk of
the Bureau of Public Debt of the island of Cuba, an officer
in the employment of the Kingdom of Spain, and had charge
of public funds and money, and that be bad converted the
same to his own use. The complainant therefore charged
the said Luis Oteiza y Cortes with the crime of embezzlement
of the bonds or certificates of indebtedness, and asked for a
warrant for his apprehension under certain conventions or
treaties. A warrant was issued by the commissioner, and
the accused was arrested and brought before the commissioner; evidence of the matter on both sides was heard by
the commissioner, who certified that on the examination
and the hearings which had been had he deemed the evidence
sufficient to sustain the charge, and committed the accused
to the custody of the marshal, to be held until a warrant for
his surrender should issue according to the stipulations of
the treaty, or he should be otherwise dealt with according
to law. Mr. Justice Blatchford speaking for this court, quoting the language of Mr. Justice Miller in 127 U. S. 461, said
(page 334):
"We are of opinion that the proceeding before the commissioner is not to be regarded as in the nature of a final trial,
by which the prisoner could be convicted or acquitted of
the crime charged against him, but rather of the character
of those preliminary examinations which take place every
day in this country, before an examining or committing
magistrate, for the purpose of determining whether a case
is made out which will justify the holding of the accused,
either by imprisonment or under bail, to ultimately answer
to an indictment or other proceeding in which he shall be
finally tried upon the charge made against him. .

TODD v. UNITED STATES.
Mr. Solicitor General's Argument for the United States.

'The act of Congress conferring jurisdiction upon the coinmissioner, or other examining officer, it may be noted in
this connection, says, that if he deems the evidence sufficient
to sustain the charge under the provisions of the treaty, he
:shall certify the same, together with a copy of all the
testimony, and issue his warrant for the commitment of the
person so charged."
And quoting (page 337) from the language of Judge Wallace
in 21 Blatchford, 300 "The depositions and proofs presented a sufficient case to
the commissioner for the exercise of his judicial discretion, and
his judgment cannot be reviewed upon this proceeding. He
is made the judge of the weight and effect of the evidence,
and this court cannot review his action, when there was suffi.cient competent evidence before him to authorize him to decide
the merits of the case."
From which it seems that a commissioner of a Circuit Court
-does exercise important judicial functions; does hear and
decide upon evidence laid before him; and has the power to
:summon and compel the attendance of witnesses. While he
has not the power to convict, lie has the power to discharge,
and thus there is lodged with him some of the most important
powers that are entrusted to the highest courts of the land.
Witnesses summoned before him may by their testimony
'compel the discharge or the further prosecution of the accused.
The detention or obstruction of such testimony is obviously of
the utmost importance, as well to the accused as to the government. Section 5406 provides that if two or more persons
in any State or Territory conspire to deter, by force, intimidation, or threat, any party or witness in any court of the United
States from attending such court, or from testifying to any
matter pending therein freely, fully, and truthfully
they shall be punished," etc. While a commissioner of a Circuit Court is not a court of the United States within the
meaning of Art. III of the Constitution, he may yet be a court
of the United States in the sense that a committing magistrate
is a court, or that the Interstate Commerce Commission, or
the Court of Private Land Claims is a court. These are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

courts whose judges hold their offices during good behavior
and receive compensation which cannot be diminished during
their continuance in office, but they are nevertheless courts of
the United States in a very important sense.
Looking, then, to the end bad in view, to the evil to be
prevented, to the free, unobstructed, and complete protection
of the rights of the citizen, we submit that within the meaning of section 5406 of the Revised Statutes, a commissioner of
the Circuit Court of the United States is a court of the United
States.
MR. JUSTCrE BREwRn,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
After this case had been submitted to us on certain alleged
errors, we became impressed with the fact that a more serious
question existed than any that had been discussed, and that
is, whether a preliminary examination before a commissioner
is a proceeding "in any court of the United States" within
the meaning of section 5406. The attention of counsel was
called to this, and briefs have been furnished on each side.
With the assistance furnished by these briefs we have carefully
examined the question, and are of the opinion that it must be
answered in the negative.
It is axiomatic that statutes creating and defining crimes
cannot be extended by intendment, and that no act, however
wrongful, can be punished under such a statute unless clearly
within its terms. "There can be no constructive offences, and
before a man can be punished, his case must be plainly and
unmistakably within the statute."
United States v. Lacher,
134 U. S. 624; Endlich on the Interpretation of Statutes, sec.
329, 2d ed.; Pomeroy's Sedgwick on Statutory and Constitutional Construction, 280.
That a commissioner is not a judge of a court of the United
States within the constitutional sense is apparent and conceded. le is simply an officer of the Circuit Court, appointed
and removable by that court. Rev. Stat. § 627. Ex parte
Hennen, 13 Pet. 230; United States v. Allred, 155 U. S. 591.

TODD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

A preliminary examination before him is not a proceeding in
the court which appointed him, or in any court of the United
States. Such an examination may be had not merely before
a commissioner, but also before any justice or judge of the
United States, or before any chancellor, judge of a state court,
mayor of a city, justice of the peace, or other state magistrate. Rev. Stat. § 1014. And it cannot be pretended that
one of those state officers while conducting a preliminary investigation is holding a court of the United States. Technically, we speak of an examining magistrate, and not of an
examining court. The distinction is recognized in the statutes, § 1014, by which sundry judicial officers of the United
States and of the States are authorized to conduct an exanination and imprison or bail the defendant, "for trial before
such court of the United States as by law has cognizance of
the offence." Also § 911, which provides that "all writs and
processes issuing from the courts of the United States shall
be under the seal of the court from which they issue, and
shall be signed by the clerk thereof." But a commissioner,
like a justice of the peace, is not obliged to have a seal, and
his warrants may be under his hand alone. Starr v. United
States, 153 U. S.614. Again, the district attorney is allowed
certain fees per diem for an examination before a judge or.
commissioner and for his attendance in a court of the United
States; also for mileage in travelling to the place of holding
any court or to the place of any examination before a judgeor commissioner. § 824. And a witness is entitled to fees
"for each day's attendance in court or before any officer pursuant to law." § 848. While a preliminary examination
may be in the strictest sense of the term a judicial proceeding, yet the language of the statute is not broad enough to
include every judicial proceeding held under the laws of the
United States. The offence described is a conspiracy to deter
by force, etc., "any party or witness in any court of the
United States."
Doubtless it was within the power of Congress to legislate
in this direction fully for the protection of every witness
called upon by the laws of the United States to give testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

mony in any place and under any circumstances, Logan v.
United States, 144 U. S.263, but it has not as yet seen fit to
(10 so, and has only provided for his protection when called
as a witness in a court of the United States. United States v.
Clark, 1 Gallison, 497, is in point. In that case, under a statute punishing perjury " in any suit, controversy, matter, or
cause depending in any of the courts of the United States, or
in any deposition taken pursuant to the laws of the United
States," 1 Stat. 116, the defendant was indicted for perjury
on a preliminary examination before a judge of the District
Court of the United States, and it was held by Mr. Justice
Story that the indictment could not be maintained, saying:
" The statute does not punish every perjury, but only a perjury done in a court of the United States. Plainly, therefore, it
is of the very essence of the offence that it should be charged
as committed in such court. Now, under the authority of the
United States there are but three courts known in law, the
District, Circuit, and Supreme Court; and as Congress alone
can, by the Constitution, ordain and establish courts, none can
exist but such as they create and name. . . . A court is
not a judge, nor a judge a court. A judge is a public officer,
who, by virtue of his office, is clothed with judicial authorities. A court is defined to be a place in which justice is
judicially administered: It is the exercise of judicial power,
by the proper officer or officers, at a time and place appointed
by law." In connection with that case it is worthy of notice
that Congress subsequently changed the statute, (4 Stat. 118,)
and tha now in force; Rev. Stat. § 5392, extends to every
"oath before a competent tribunal, officer, or person, in any
case in which a law of the United States authorizes an oath to
be administered."
Further discussion seems unnecessary. As a preliminary
examination before a commissioner cannot be considered a
case pending in any court of the United States, it follows
that this indictment is fatally defective and charges no offence
against the laws of the United States.
Reversed.
The judgment is
MR. JUsTICE HAtAN

dissented.

