RICH v. BRAXTON.

375

Syllabus.

RICif v. BRAXTON.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 17.

Argued November 16, 17, 1898. -

Decided May 6,1895.

C., in his lifetime, was in possession, claiming ownership under divers
patents of the Commonwealth of Virginia, of several contiguous tracts
of land in West Virginia, described in the several surveys thereof. In
September, 1875, they were sold for non-payment of taxes assessed upon
them for the year 1874, and, under the operation of the tax laws of that
State, the title was suspended for one year, the State being the purchaser, in order to enable the owner to pay the taxes within that year,
and thus free the land from the charge. C. died three months before the
expiration of the year.. After his death and after the expiration of the
year, his heirs commenced proceedings under the state statutes, praying
for leave to pay all back taxes and to acquire the title to the lands which
had then become vested in the State. Decrees were entered giving them
permission to redeem, and releasing the lands from the forfeiture and
from all former taxes and damages. Under these decrees they made the
payments. They then found that an adverse title to the lands was set
up by purchasers at tax sales made in 1869 for the non-payment of taxes
assessed in 1868, to persons claiming under other alleged surveys, and
under other grants from the Commonwealth, and under other tax sales
made prior to the separation, which are set forth in detail in the opinion
of the court The heirs of C. thereupon filed their bill in equity against
the persons setting up such adverse title, praying for a decree annulling
the deeds under which the defendants claimed title, and the removal
thereby of the cloud created by them on the plaintiff's title. Held,
(1) That the claims of the heirs of C. were sustained, unless overthrown
by the evidence adduced by the defendants;
(2) That the examination and review of that evidence by the court showed
that the tax sale of 1869 had no validity, and that there was nothing in the case to affect the validity of the claim of the heirs of C.
By the law of Virginia in force prior to the creation of the State of West
Virginia, it was the duty of the sheriff or collector, when lands were sold
for taxes, to purchase them on behalf of the Commonwealth for the
amount of the taxes, unless some person bid that amount ; and any lands
so purchased and certified to the first auditor vested in the Commonwealth without any deed for that purpose, and could have been redeemed
in the mode prescribed by the statute.
Whatever title Virginia had to lands so purchased and not redeemed, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.
which were within the territory now constituting West Virginia, passed
to the latter State upon its admission to the Union.
The time given by the constitution and laws of West Virginia to redeem
lands that had become the property of Virginia by forfeiture or by purchase at sheriff's sale for delinquent taxes, and which had not been released
or exonerated in conformity to law, expired June 20, 1868.
By section 3 of Article XIII of the constitution of West Virginia, the title
to lands of the character described which were not redeemed, released, or
otherwise disposed of, and which was vested in and remained in the
State, was transferred to and vested-- (1) In any person (other than
those for whose default the same may have been forfeited or returned
delinquent, their heirs or devisees) for so much thereof as such person
shall have had actual, continuous possession of under color or claim of
title for ten years, and who, or those under whom he claims, shall have
paid the state taxes thereon for any five years during such possession;
or (2) if there were no such person, then to any person (other than
those for whose default the same may have been forfeited or returned
delinquent, their heirs or devisees) for so much of said land as such person shall have title to, regularly derived, mediately or immediately, from
or under a grant from the Commonwealth of Virginia, which, but for
the title forfeited, would be valid, and who, or those under whom he
claims, has or shall have paid all state taxes charged or chargeable
thereon for five successive years after the year 1865, or from the date of
the grant, if it was issued after that year; or (3) if there were no such
person as aforesaid, then to any person (other than those for whose default the same may have been forfeited or returned delinquent, their
heirs or devisees) for so much of said land as such person shall have
had claim to and actual, continuous possession of, under color of title,
for any five successive years after the year 1865, and have paid all state
taxes charged or chargeable thereon for said period: and the defendants'
case belongs to neither class.
The proceedings instituted by the commissioner of the school fund, under
the act of November 18, 1873, for the sale of escheated, forfeited, and
unappropriated lands were, in a judicial sense, ex parte; neither in rem
nor in.
personam.
The words in the 13th section of that act- " at any time before the sale of
any such land .. . such former owner or any creditor of such
all
former owner of such land, having a lien thereon, may pay . .
.
and have an order made in time
costs, taxes, and interest due .
which order, so made, shall operate as a release on
order book . .
all former taxes on said land, and no sale thereof shall be made, embrace
those - (in this case the heirs of C.) - who in law would have owned the
lands, if they had not been sold for taxes, or, if sold, had been redeemed
within the prescribed time after the sale at which the State purchased.
IuWest Virginia it is the settled rule that a court of equity has jurisdiction to set aside an illegal or void tax deed.
According to settled rules, equity will not interfere to remove an alleged

IICH q). BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.
cloud upon title to laud, if the instrument or proceeding constituting
such alleged cloud is absolutely void upon its face, so that no extrinsic
evidence is necessary to show its invalidity; nor will it interfere if the
instrument or proceeding is not thus void on its face, but the party
claiming, in order to enforce it, must necessarily offer evidence which
will inevitably show its invalidity and destroy its efficacy.
But equity will interfere where deeds, certificates, and other instruments
given on sales for taxes, are made by statute prima facie evidence of the
regularity of proceedings connected with the assessments and sales.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

M'. John F-.Heator and Mr. John A. Ihttchinson for appellants.
Mr. S. Morris IWaln filed a brief for appellants.
Mr. James I. ]i'ergqson for appellees.
Mr. IV. Mollonan filed a brief for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees, who were the plaintiffs below, are the children and heirs at law of Allen T. Caperton, who, the bill
alleged, was seized and possessed at the time of his death of
an estate in fee in various tracts of land in West Virginia
which are fully described in the pleadings.
The appellants, who were defendants below, assert ownership of the same lands.
The object of the present suit - which was removed from
one of the courts of West Virginia - was to obtain a decree
annulling the deeds under which the defendants claim title,
and thereby remove the cloud created by them on the title of
the plaintiffs. By the final decree those deeds were set aside
as inoperative, fraudulent, and void, and as clouds upon the
plaintiffs' title, "so far as they and each of them overlap and
include any of the lands of the said plaintiffs as laid down and
shown upon the map filed with the papers of this cause, marked
'Map of the lands in the suit of Caperton's Heirs v. Rich and
others, Decree Map.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Attention will first be directed to the title asserted by the
plaintiffs. They derive title from numerous patents and deeds,
as follows :
1. A patent from the Commonwealth of Virginia, dated
March 25th, 1795, to Robert Morris for 153,900 acres of land in
the county of Greenbrier; a deed from Robert Mlorris and
wife, dated March 13th, 1797, conveying to William Crammond
several tracts, including the above tract of 153,900 acres; a
deed from William Crammond and wife, dated October 28th,
1814, to Thomas Astley, covering all the above lands conveyed
by Morris and wife to William Crammond; a deed dated
December 10th, 1840, to Henry Crammond from Littleton Kirkpatrick and wife, (the latter being the only heir at law of
Thomas Astley,) and Sarah Astley, the widow of Thomas
Astley, embracing the lands covered by the deeds from iMorris and wife and William Crammond; a deed by Henry Crammond to John Williams, dated December 21st, 1842, conveying
to the latter the tract of 153,900 acres.
2. A deed to Caperton by John Williams and wife, dated
February 21st, 1850, conveying to the grantee 77,104 acres of
the tract of 153,900 acres named in the Morris patent. Caperton sold and conveyed a part of the land embraced by this deed,
so that, at his death, he claimed to own only 41,171 acres of
the above 77,104 acres.
3. A patent from the Commonwealth of Virginia to Abner
Cloud, assignee of Lewis Franklin, dated March 10th, 1790, for
5000 acres in Harrison County, on the waters of Gauley River.
By a change in the lines of counties this tract was included
in the county of Nicholas. It appears from the official records
that these 5000 acres were forfeited to that Commonwealth in
1842 for the failure of the owner to enter them upon the books of
the commissioner, and for non-payment of taxes. That fact being regularly reported by the commissioners of delinquent and
forfeited lands to the Nicholas County circuit superior court,
they were ordered by that court to be sold in the manner and
upon the terms prescribed by law; and they were sold, John
Williams becoming the purchaser. The sale having been confirmed, a deed was made to Williams June 20th, 1843, by the

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

commissioner of delinquent and forfeited lands for Nicholas
County. Subsequently, February 21st, 1850, Williams and wife
conveyed to Caperton the above 5000 acres as well as various
other tracts that had been sold under the order of court by that
officer and purchased by Williams.
4. A patent from the Commonwealth of Virginia to A. C.
and D. B. Layne, dated September 1st, 1851, for 2738 acres in
what is now Webster County, West Virginia. A. C. Layne
and wife, by deed of March 18th, 1856, conveyed their interest
to Douglas B. Layne, who, with his wife, by deed of April 12th,
1859, conveyed to Caperton.
5. Patehts from the Commonwealth of Virginia to Austin
Hollister, one dated November 1st, 1855, for 9330 acres, and
the other dated February 1st, 1858, for 5938 acres, both tracts
being in Randolph County. By deed of February 12th, 1859,
Hollister and wife conveyed both of these tracts to Caperton.
It appears that in 1881 the children and heirs at law of Caperton - he having died in July, 1876- presented to the circuit court of Webster County, West Virginia, a petition asking
that they be allowed to redeem from forfeiture and sale the
above tracts of 9330, 5938, 5000, and 2738 acres, as well as a
tract of 500 acres, all assessed in the name of Caperton. The
petition stated that there were no persons in condition to take
the benefit of the forfeiture of those lands or any part of them
under the provisions of section three of article thirteen of the
constitution of the State, and that they were entitled to redeem
the same in the manner provided by the thirteenth section of
the act of the legislature of West Virginia, (Acts W. Va. 1872-3,
p. 455, c. 134:,) providing for the sale of escheated, forfeited, and
unappropriated lands for the benefit of the school fund.
The section of Article XIII of the constitution of West
Virginia to which reference was made in that petition is in
these words:
"3. All title to lands in this State heretofore forfeited, or
treated as forfeited, waste, and unappropriated, or escheated
to the State of Virginia, or this State, or purchased by either
of said States at sales made for the non-payment of taxes and
become irredeemable, or hereafter forfeited, or treated as for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

feited, or escheated to this State, or purchased by it and
become irredeemable, not redeemed, released, or otherwise
disposed of, vested and remaining in this State, shall be, and
is hereby transferred to, and vested in any person (other than
those for whose default the same may have been forfeited or
returned delinquent, their heirs or devisees) for so much
thereof as such person has, or shall have had actual continuous
possession of, under color or claim of title for ten years, and
who, or those under whom he claims, shall have paid the state
taxes thereon for any five years during such possession; or if
there be no such person, then to any person (other than those
for whose default the same may have been forfeited, xr returned
delinquent, their heirs or devisees) for so much of said land as
such person shall have title or claim to, regularly derived,
mediately or immediately from, or under a grant from the
Commonwealth of Virginia, or this State, not forfeited, which
but for the title forfeited would be valid, and who, or those
under whom lie claims, has or shall have paid all state taxes
charged or chargeable thereon for five successive years, after
the year 1865, or from the date of the grant, if it shall have
issued since that year; or if there be no such person, as aforesaid, then to any person (other than those for whose default
the same may have been forfeited, or returned delinquent,
their heirs or devisees) for so much of said land. as such person shall have had claim to and actual continuous possession
of, under color of title for any five successive years after the
year 1865, and have paid all state taxes charged or chargeable thereon for said period."
The statute referred to was that of November 18, 1873,
entitled "An act to provide for the sale of escheated, forfeited, and unappropriated lands for the benefit of the school
fund."
By that statute the former owner of lands, the title to
which was in the State by forfeiture or purchase, and which
were ordered to be sold by the proper circuit court for the
benefit of the school fund, was allowed, upon proof of title
superior to that asserted by any other claimant, to receive
the excess over the taxes charged and chargeable thereon,

RICH v. BIAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

with interest at twelve per cent -such exhibition and proof
of title being made within two years after sale under the
order of court. The former owner, or any creditor of such
owner having a lien on the land, was also permitted, at any
time before sale, to pay into court, with its consent, all costs,
taxes, and interest due the State, and obtain an order releasing all former taxes on the land and suspending the sale
thereof - such payment, however, not to affect or impair the
title to any portion of such lands transferred to and vested in
any person in virtue of section three of Article XIII of the
state constitution. Acts of W. Va. 1872-3, pp. 449, 454, 455,
c. 134.
The commissioner of school lands, whose duty it was to
ascertain the quantity of land in his county subject to sale
under the above statute, (§§ 1, 2,) reported to the proper circuit court that the taxes and interest charged and chargeable
against the tracts of 9330, 5938, 5000, and 2738 acres claimed
by the heirs at law of Caperton, amounted to $1785.82; and
against the tract of 500 acres, the sum of $18.69. The prayer
of the petition was granted. The final order of the court
contained these provisions: "The petitioners having exhibited
to the court their title papers, showing that they have title to
each of the five several tracts of land mentioned in their petition and amended petition aforesaid, regularly derived from
the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the court, being of opinion that the petitioners have a good and valid title to said
lands, and it not appearing that there is any person in condition to take the benefit of the forfeiture thereof, doth consent
and order that petitioners may redeem said lands from forfeiture. And thereupon petitioners, with the consent of the
court, paid into court, to the hands of the said Duffy, commissioner of school lands, $1804.51, being the amount of taxes
and interest due on said lands at this date, and $4.50 costs of
this proceeding. It is therefore adjudged, ordered, and decreed that said several tracts of 2738, 5000, 9330, 5938, and
500 acres of land have been redeemed, and that they be and
stand releasedfrom 8aidforfeiture and exonerated and release(l
from, all otherformer taxes and damages, if any such there be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and no sale thereof shall be made on account thereof, and said
several tracts of land are hereby reinstated and directed to be
entered and charged on the land books of said county of
Webster, commencing with the year 1881, in the names qf the
keirs at law of sai( Allen T. Caperton, deceased."
In the circuit court of Nicholas County there were similar
proceedings in 1881 for the redemption from forfeiture and
sale for non-payment of taxes of the tract of 41,171- acres
and other tracts standing in the name of Caperton. The back
taxes, with interest, charged and chargeable upon those lands,
were adjudged to be $3100.87. That amount was paid by the
heirs of Caperton, and it was adjudged that these tracts "be
and are released from such forfeiture and exonerated and released from all other former taxes and damages, if any such
there be, and no sale thereof shall be made on account thereof,
and the said several tracts of land are each hereby reinstated
in all respects as if no such forfeiture had occurred, and the
assessor of Nicholas County is ordered and directed to enter
said lands in separate tracts on the land books for said county
for the year 1881 in the name of Allen T. Caperton's estate
and charge the same with taxes commencing with the year
1881, all _prior taxes, including 17e year 1880, having been _paid
as aforesaid."
The court below, in the present case, after observing that
Caperton's title was regularly deducible from the Coramonwealth of Virginia, and that all the lands in controversy were
duly entered in his name on the land books of the proper
counties, and that the taxes charged thereon were all paid by
him up to and including the year 1873, thus correctly summarized the plaintiffs' proofs as to possession: " As to the possession of these lands by said Caperton, the evidence shows
that as' early as the month of April, 1865, one Solomon Taylor
was in the actual possession and occupation of a part of the
lands then owned by Caperton, as his tenant, and claiming
his possession and occupation thereof as the tenant of Caperton. The lands so possessed and occupied by him were a part
of the said Robert Morris tract purchased by Caperton, as
above referred to. His improvements thereon consisted of a

RICH v. BRAXTON.

383

Opinion of the Court.

log cabin, in which he lived, and a few acres of land enclosed,
cleared, and cultivated by him, and bad the appearance of
being old. Ile remained on this land as tenant of Caperton
until the year 1869, when he purchased from Caperton some
300 acres of the land formerly belonging to Morris, which
embraced his said improvements. About the same time, in
the spring of 1865, when Taylor was found in possession of
said land, a man by the name of Thompson was on the lands
acting as the agent of Caperton, locating and surveying them,
and exercising supervision over them. In the spring of 1868
Caperton put Samuel Hinkle on that part of his said lands
which were formerly a part of the Robert Morris tract, as his
tenant and agent, and gade him the general charge of the
whole of the lands then owned by him as above stated, with
instructions to protect the timber thereon from waste and
destruction, and to prevent squatters from settling upon them.
Hinkle remained there as such tenant and agent of Caperton
until the month of June, 1876, when Caperton died, and from
that time to the institution of this suit he remained on said
lands as the tenant of the plaintiffs. On the 8th day of July,
1874, George M. Sawyer, as the agent of Caperton, leased a
portion of the land in controversy, lying on Williams River,
to Mark Hammons, being the place where a man by the name
of Mullen bad once lived as a squatter, who took possession
of the land under his lease, living there until he assigned it to
M. J. Stiltner on the 14th day of May, 1875, and on the 21st
of September, 1876, Stiltner assigned on'e-half of his leased
premises to I. C. Clevenger, who entered upon the land, holding possession of the same until the spring of 1877, when he
and Stiltner sold their tenancy to Peter Hammons, who took
possession of the premises under them. The leased premises
were afterwards occupied by Jesse Hammons, who derived
his right from Peter Ilaimnons, and he sold his right to John
Lee, who entered upon the leased premises. All of these persons in law were the tenants of the plaintiffs, and of those
under whom they claimed. It will be perceived that the
constructive possession of the lands in controversy, under the
proofs in this cause, in the absence of an actual, adverse pos-

3S4

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

session, which does not appear, was with the said Caperton up
to the time that Taylor became his tenant of the lands mentioned above, and that the said Caperton had the actual possession of all of his said lands, at least from the month of
April, 1865, to the time of his death, unless that possession
was disturbed by the operations of the defendant, Rich, which
commenced on the 10th day of May, 1.872, by his lease to
Mullens." Braxton v. Rich, 47 Fed. Rep. 178.
In considering the question of the possession of the various
tracts of land claimed by the plaintiffs, as heirs at law of
Caperton, the court below proceeded upon the ground that
the surveys being coterminous all the tracts should be regarded
as one tract. " Upon the questioh of adversary possession,"
the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia said in Overton's
leirs v. Davisson, 1 Gratt. 211, 224, " it is immaterial whether
the land in controversy be embraced by one, or several coterminous grants of the older patentee; or one or several coterminous grants of the younger patentee: in either case, the
lands granted to the same person by several patents, must be
regarded as forming one entire tract." The same principle
was announced in Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, 53, and in
Simmons Creek Coal Co. v. Doran, 142 U. S. 417, 443.
This is substantially the case made by the plaintiffs. It
would seem to be sufficient to sustain their claim to ownership of these lands, unless it has been overthrown by the evidence adduced by the defendants.
We proceed to examine the case made by the defendants,
and the grounds upon which they assail the title of the plaintiffs. Certain tax deeds, under which the defendants claim,
embrace the lands in dispute. The circumstances under which
they were executed will now be stated.
John B. Shreve, a surveyor by occupation, had in his possession what he claimed was the original record of numerous surveys of lands in Randolph County, Virginia, made
prior to the beginning of the present century. These lands
were afterwards embraced in the present counties of Nicholas
and Webster, West Virginia. lie was well acquainted with
the lines and corners of these old, and, as the evidence clearly

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

establishes, long abandoned surveys. He was probably the
only person, living at the time of the transactions to be presently referred to, who could identify those corners and surveys.
He conceived the idea of having the lands supposed to be
within those abandoned surveys put on the assessor's book and
sold for non-payment of taxes - the lands to be purchased by
those who should employ him to identify and mark the lines
of the original surveys.
In execution of this plan, but without any authority whatever in the premises from any one interested in the lands,
Shreve, in 1868, addressed to the assessor of Webster County,
West Virginia, a communication describing various tracts of
land, aggregating nearly 700,000 acres, and directing him to
put them all on the commissioner's books for purposes of taxation. Among those tracts he named the following:
1. " One tract in the name of William McClary, containing
100,000 acres," lying " on Gauley and Williams Rivers at the
lower end of the county," Hally township. It does not appear
that any one by the name of McClary ever had title to a tract
of 100,000 acres by patent or otherwise, or that any such tract
was ever surveyed by or for any person of that name. It does
appear that a patent, dated January 21st, 1796, which was subsequent to the date of the Morris patent, was issued to William
McCreery.
2. "One tract in the name of George Messingburg, containing 12,500 acres . . . on Gauley, at the upper end of the
county, Fort Lick township." The survey for this land was
made in 1795, but no patent ever issued to Messingburg or to
any assignee. In other documents the name of this person is
given as Messingbird.
3. "Fifty-three tracts in the name of Henry Banks, containing 58,500 acres . . . laid off in 53 lots, the most lies
east of Addison, Elk and Gauley, Fort Lick township." In
1787 Banks made fifty-three surveys, aggregating 58,500 acres
of land, of which only forty-three were filed for patents. Of
the surveys so filed, patents were issued for only nine, each
covering one thousand acres. But those patents do not embrace any of the lands here in dispute.
VOL. c viii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

4. "One tract in the name of James Welch, containing 105
acres in Fort Lick township."
To the paper sent by Shreve to the assessor was appended
this memorandum : "Please place the following tracts on the
books and them men will call on you and settle your fees
liberally as my son told you. These lands in Webster County
deep. If the owners choose to
is covered sometimes three put them on the books at five cents per acre it will amount
to thousands of dollars to the county as well as the State.
As my son told you, you will be attended to. J. B. Shreve.
P. S.- Leave with Mr. Sawyer what you have put them down
at, so that I can write to those men what it is, etc. The rest
lives in Pennsylvania."
"Those men," referred to in this postscript, were doubtless
the persons residing out of the State, with whom Shreve made
the first arrangement for putting on the assessor's books lands
to be sold and which would be purchased by them at tax sales.
But the arrangement with those persons seems to have been
abandoned by them for some reason, and a different one was
made with others. The latter arrangement is fully disclosed
in the testimony, particularly in the depositions of Albert
Owen and Benjamin Rich.
Albert Owen describes himself as a resident of Pennsylvania and a gentleman of leisure, who sometimes bought and
sold real estate. It appears from his deposition that he had
heard, in casual conversations, of a sale to be made in West
Virginia in the autumn of 1869 of large bodies of land for
delinquent taxes. And in May of that year he went to West
Virginia and met John B. Shreve at the latter's residence in
Upshur County. Shreve exhibited to him a large folio book
of land surveys made between the years 1780 and 1-795, and
purporting to have been the work of Edward Jackson, a
county surveyor, and his assistants or deputies. From their
antiquated appearance they seemed to be the original book of
surveys. Shreve claimed to have been shown by Jackson and
his successors the original corners and landmarks of most of
the surveys. The result of the meeting between Owen and
Shreve was a written agreement by which the latter under-

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

took to assist the former in becoming familiar with the surveys prior to the proposed sale for taxes, and Owen agreed to
pay Shreve $2000 for each one hundred thousand acres properly surveyed and identified by him, and purchased by Owen.
Raving made the above arrangement, Owen returned to his
residence in Pennsylvania, and being without any money of
his own proposed to some of his friends that if they would
"find the expense money" he would attend the sale, make
such purchases as he deemed advisable, and divide the profits
with them. He made an arrangement with several persons,
among whom was the present appellant, Benjamin Rich, that
upon being furnished by them with one thousand dollars, he
would attend the sale, and deliver to them one-half the proceeds of lands that should be purchased with the money
supplied by them. But the parties with whom Owen made
this arrangement, except Rich, withdrew from it early in September, 1869. Owen testified: "I think, about the 20th of
September I went to Unionville to see these parties and see if
they would carry out the arrangement that had been made.
Each one would refer me to another, and they declined to
furnish the money or to go with me except Benjamin Rich,
who said if he could get ready and could raise some money,
which he thought he could do, he would go with me and see
what there was in the project. I then said to Rich, 'if you
will make an effort, raise the money, go with me, and carry
out your part of the contract, I will leave it optional with you
after the sale to withdraw. I will refund your money and
pay your expenses on the trip.' Rich said he would make
the effort, but the time was short, but he thought he would
go. Our time was limited in which to make the trip, but
Rich met me at the train, and we proceeded to West Virginia
and to Webster Court-house. We arrived there one or two
days prior to the sale. Rich was present. John B. Shreve was
present. Granville P. Shreve was present. Land agents and
lawyers from many of the surrounding counties were present.
The sale was had and was somewhat animated. I purchased
a long list of tracts of land, large and small, bidding at random. . . . The amount paid by me, as receipted in this list,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

is one hundred and fifty-four dollars and fifty-four cents
($154.54). Benjamin Rich and myself returned home together,
and on our way, between Buckhannon and Clarksburg, I
asked iRich which option he would take, his interest in the
land or his money and expenses refunded. He 'said he would
take his interest in the land. I then said to Rich, ' If you are
not satisfied I will refund your money, pay your expenses,
and give you ten dollars per day for the time you have lost.'
Rich replied, ' If you will give me two thousand dollars I will
step out.' That was understood to end the option, as it really
(lid, and it was settled that he was to take his interest in the
land."
The circumstances under which the appellant Rich became
connected with these transactions were thus detailed by himself in a suit brought against him by Shreve: "I am the
defendant in the above stated suit and reside at Unionville,
Center County and State of Pennsylvania. I first met John
B. Shreve, the plaintiff in the above stated cause, on September-, 1869, at Buekhannon, W. Va. Albert Owen, of Phillipsburg, Penna., introduced me to him. Owen had met Shreve
some months before, and, as they both said, had been examining and surveying lands to be sold that fall for taxes. Shreve
represented to me that he knew the beginning corners and
lines of several large tracts of land that were to be sold in
Webster County, West Virginia, that Month; that he had the
original plats and field-notes of Edward Jackson, the surveyor
who made these surveys; that these corners and lines hadbeen shown to him by Henry Jackson, he said, second surveyor of Randolph County, who was along with Edward
Jackson when they were made. Shreve said that Henry
Jackson was the second surveyor of Randolph County, and
that he, Shrove, was deputy surveyor under him, and that he
had nearly all of Henry Jackson's field-notes, and that he was
the only man living that could show these corners and lines to
identify these surveys. le also said that he had had the
titles to these several tracts examined by one of the best land
lawyers in the State (did not give his name); that he would
show these corners and lines of these lands to the county sur-

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

veyor sufficient to identify any of these tracts and assist him
or them in getting deeds and surveying the tracts of land if
the party buying them would agree to pay him two cents per
acre bonus. Owen had called my attention to these land
sales some months before this and showed me a letter from
John B. Shreve about the same as I have stated above. This
letter and Owen's statement as to the lands, quality and
quantity of timber, coal, etc., induced me to go to West Virginia at the time I did. .
.
Then Shreve being so positive about his ability and willingness to identify these lands,
I agreed to buy one tract, known as 'Col. Win. McClary,'
100,000 acres ; to pay 2000 dollars when I got the deed;
corners and lines sufficient to identify it shown to me or
county surveyor. I agreed to pay this two thousand dollars
to John B. Shreve as a bonus for his information and services,
as stated above. Owen, in my presence, agreed to take one
tract of 105,000 acres, known as 'James Welch;' one of
187,000 acres, 'Joseph Patterson,' and some others. Shreve
went with us to attend the sale. I bought the above tract,
' Col. Win. McClary; ' Owen bought several. In August, 1870,
John B. Shreve came to my house in Unionville, Pennsylvania,
and got me to take him to Phillipsburg, Pennsylvania, to see
Mr. Owen. He said Owen was not paying him as he agreed.
After a long talk between them Mr. Shreve agreed if I would
take the ' Welch tract of 105,000 acres' he would wait on me
for the bonus, $2100, until I could sell the land. I agreed to
do that, and Owen assigned the sheriff's memorandum of the
said tract to me at that time. I got the deed for the two
tracts about the 1st of October, 1870."
On the 24th of September, 1869, there was a sale at the courthouse in Webster County of the lands that Shreve had, for
his individual purposes, caused to be put on the assessor's
books for taxes for the year 1868. The tract of 58,500 acres,
in the name of Henry Banks, was purchased by Owen, Rich,
and G. P. Shreve (the latter a son of J. B. Shreve) for $11.20;
the Messingbird or Messingburg 12,500 acres, by the same
persons for $2.61; the McClary 100,000 acres, by Owen and
Rich for $41.82; and the Welch 105,000 acres, by Owen for

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

$21.97. On the 28th day of September, 1870, James Woodzell,
recorder of Webster County, who seems to have been, at that
time, Rich's agent in land transactions in Webster County,
executed deeds as follows: To Benjamin Rich and Thornton
Conrow, assignee of Rich, for the 100,000 acres entered on the
assessor's books and sold in the name of William McClary;
to Rich and Conrow, assignee of Albert Owen and G. P. Shreve,
for the Messingbird 12,500 acres; to Rich and Conrow,
assignees of Owen, for the Welch 105,000 acres, and to Rich,
assignee of Owen and G. P. Shreve, for the Banks 58,500 acres.
It is unnecessary to refer to any deeds subsequently made, for
they depend upon the validity of the tax sales of the above
lands and upon the deeds made, as just stated, by the recorder
of Webster County on the basis of those sales.
Were the tax sales of September 24th, 1869, of any validity
whatever? The claims of the several defendants in this suit
depend principally on the answer to that question.
The Code of Virginia in force prior to the creation of the
State of West Virginia provided:
"§ 24. When any real estate is offered for sale [for taxes]
as aforesaid, by the sheriff or collector, and no person present
bids the amount to be satisfied from the sale thereof, the sheriff
or collector shall purchase the same on behalf of the Common,wealthfor the taxes thereon, and the interest on the same, and
its proportion of the expense of advertising. A list of the real
estate so purchased by the Commonwealth shall be made out
by the sheriff or collector. After it shall have been verified by
him on oath, the court of his county or corporation shall direct
its clerk to make out a copy thereof, and deliver it to the commissioner of the revenue, and shall cause the original list to
be certified to the first auditor. . . . § 25. The first auditor
shall cause all the lists received in his office, under the preceding
section, to be recorded in a well-bound book; and all the real
estate mentioned in such lists shall, without any deed for the
.purpose, stand vested in the Commonwealth. § 26. The previous owner of any real estate so purchased for the Commonwealth, his heirs or assigns, or any person having a right to
charge such real estate for a debt, may, until a further sale

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

thereof, as hereinafter mentioned, redeem the same by obtaining from the first auditor such certificate, and paying such fee
therefor as is mentioned in the first section, and by paying into
the treasury the amount for which such real estate was so purchased, with such additional sums as would have accrued for
taxes thereon if the same had not been purchased for the Commonwealth, and interest at the rate of ten per centum per
annum, on the former amount, from the (late of the purchase,
and on the additional sums, from the fifteenth of December,
in the year in which the same would have so accrued. When
real estate so purchased is so redeemed, the airst auditor shall
certify the fact to the proper commissioner of the revenue."
Va. Code 1849, c. 37, §§ 24, 25, 26.
By an act of the general assembly of Virginia, passed February 3d, 1863, it was provided, among other things, that all
property, real, personal, and mixed, owned by or appertaining
to that Commonwealth, and being within the boundaries of
the then proposed State of West Virginia, when the same be-came one of the United States, should pass to and become the
property of West Virginia, without any other assignment, con-veyance, transfer, or delivery than was contained in that act.
Acts of Va. 1862-3, p. 64, c. 68.
The constitution of West Virginia, adopted in 1863, declared
that "such parts of the common law and of the laws of the
State of Virginia as are in force within the boundaries of the
State of West Virginia, when this constitution goes into operation, and are not repugnant thereto, shall be and continue the
law of this State until altered or repealed by the legislature."
Art. XI, § 8. The effect of this constitutional provision was to
make the above sections of the Code of Virginia part of the
law of West Virginia from the time of the admission of the
latter State into the Union.
The constitution of West Virginia of 1863 directed provision
to be made by the legislature for the sale of all lands in that
State, theretofore forfeited to Virginia for the non-payment of
the taxes charged thereon for the year 1831, or for any year
previous thereto, or for the failure of the former owners to
have the same entered on the land books of the proper county

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and charged with the taxes due thereon for that or for any
year previous thereto, under the laws of Virginia, and also of
all waste and unappropriated lands, by proceedings in the circuit courts of the county where such lands were situated. Art.
IX, § 3. All lands within West Virginia, returned delinquent for
non-payment of taxes to Virginia after 1831, when the taxes,
exclusive of damages, did not exceed twenty dollars; and all
lands forfeited for the failure of the owners to have the same
entered on the land books of the proper county, and charged
with the taxes chargeable thereon subsequent to 1831, where
the tract did not contain more than one thousand acres, were
released and exonerated from forfeiture, and from the delinquent taxes and damages charged thereon. Art. IX, § 4.
The fifth section of the same article provided: "§ 5. All
lands in this State heretofore vested in the State of Virginia
by forfeiture, or by purchase at the sheriffs' sales for delinquent taxes, and not released or exonerated by the laws
thereof, or by the operation of the preceding section, may be
redeemed by the former owners, by payment to this State of
the amount of taxes and damages due thereon at the time of
such redemption, within five years from the day this constitution goes into operation; and all such lands not so released,
exonerated, or redeemed shall be treated as forfeited, and
proceeded against and sold as provided in the third section of
this article."
In execution of those provisions the legislature of West Virginia, on the 2d day of March, 1865, passed an act containing,
among others, these provisions:
"Sc. 2. All lands in this State heretofore vested in the
State of Virginia by forfeiture, or by purchase at the sheriffs'
sales for delinquent taxes and not released or exonerated by
the laws thereof, or by the operation of the seventh section of
the ninth article of the constitution of this State, may be redeemed by the former owners by payment into the treasury
of this State, upon the certificate of the auditor, of the amount
of taxes and damages due thereon at the time. of such redemption, on or before the twentieth day of June, eighteen hundred
and sixty-eight.

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 3. All waste and unappropriated lands within this
State, and all lands in this State heretofore vested in the State
of Virginia by forfeiture or by purchase at the sheriffs' sales
for delinquent taxes, not released and exonerated, or redeemed
in the manner prescribed in the second section of this act,
shall be sold for the benefit of the school fund, in the manner
hereinafter directed." Acts W. Va. 1865, p. 79, c. 92.
From these statutory and constitutional provisions it appears: That by the law of Virginia, in force prior to the
creation of the State of West Virginia, it was the duty of the
sheriff or collector, when lands were sold for taxes, to purchase them on behalf of the Commonwealth for the amount
of taxes, unless some person bid that amount; that any lands
so purchased and certified to the first auditor vested in the
Commonwealth without any deed for that purpose; that such
lands could have been redeemed in the mode prescribed by
the statute; that whatever title Virginia had to lands so purchased and not redeemed, and which were within the territory
now constituting West Virginia, passed to the latter State
upon its admission into the Union; and that the time given
by the constitution and laws of West Virginia to redeem lands
that had become the property of Virginia by forfeiture or by
purchase at sheriffs' sale for delinquent taxes, and which had
not been released or exonerated in conformity to law, expired
June 20th, 1868.
The result is that the sale of the tract of 100,000 acres, put
on the assessor's books in the name of William McClary, for
the taxes of 18G8, must be held to have been unauthorized by
law. And such must be the result even if it be assumed that
it was the same tract as that patented by Virginia to William
McCreery on the 21st of January, 1796. From the records
in the office of the auditor of public accounts of Virginia it
appears that the tract of 100,000 acres in the name of William
McCreery was charged on the land books of Nicholas County
with taxes for the years 1840 to 1850 inclusive, and was returned delinquent for all of those years in the aggregate sum
of $297.50, for which it was sold and purchased by the Comwonwealth of Virginia in the year 1850. It had not been

OCTOBER TERM) 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

redeemed in 1860, and after that year it disappeared from the.
land books of the county.
The title was in Virginia from and after the sale in 1850,
for taxes, and that title passed to West Virginia on the admission of the latter State into the Union. The former owner
was given, by the constitution of West Virginia, five years,
from the day that instrument went into operation to redeem
by paying the taxes and damages due the State. That time,
as just stated, expired June 20th, 1868. There was no redenption. It was, therefore, beyond the authority of the assessor
of Webster County to put the MeClary or i'eCreery tract on
the assessor's books as chargeable with taxes for the year 1868.
It was then the property of the State of West Virginia, as
between the State and all who claimed under the ilcCreery
patent, and as such could neither be assessed nor sold as for.
taxes due the State. Laws of West Virginia, 1863, p. 161, §
36, Act of December 3, 1863. The assessment and sale were
consequently void, and no rights passed to the purchasers.
Some effort was made to protect the claim of Rich and
Conrow to own the MeClary or MeCreery tract of 100,000,
acres in virtue of a sale made in 1871 for the taxes of 1870
under an alleged assessment upon this tract as the property of
one "Viscount Clifford de Fleury." The deed made by the
recorder to Rich and Conrow, dated October 3d, 1872, recited
among other things that "the said tract of land was surveyed.
for Colonel William MeClary on the 23d of April, 1795, the
same having since been conveyed, as appears by sundry deeds
and conveyances now upon record in said county of Webster,
showing that the same land was held in fee simple by
Viscount Clifford de Floury, but was sold on the 24th of September, 1869, in the name of William MeClary, for the nonpayment of taxes thereon for the year 1868 and previous
years, and was purchased by Benjamin Rich, and the same
conveyed to said Rich and Thornton Conrow by deed bearing
date September 28th, 1870." It is a singular circumstance
that not one of the " sundry deeds and conveyances" here
referred to was produced in evidence. The proof tends
strongly to show that the sale of 1871 for the taxes of 1870

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

was a fraudulent contrivance to overcome the inherent difficulties that were in the way of sustaining the sale of 1869 for the
taxes of 1868. The sale of 1871 could not have legally occurred unless taxes were in fact chargeable on the lands, and
the lands entered on the assessor's book for the taxes of 1870.
The original land book of 1870 for Webster County upon
which such entry would appear, if it was in fact duly made,
could not be found at the time the evidence in this cause was
taken, and the only book in existence -purporting
to be a
copy of that book containing the entry of 100,000 acres in
the name of de Fleury - was the one in the possession of the
state auditor. Upon that copy appeared, for the first time
in any land book of Webster County, a tract of 100,000 acres
"in the name of Fleury, Viscount Clifford de, for the year
1870." And the entry in that copy was not in its alphabetical order, but out of its natural place, between the letters M
and N, and in a different handwriting from the handwriting
on the same page, except the footings. The county clerk of
Webster County testified that upon examination of the assessor's land book in his office for the year 1870 he could not find
any land charged thereon in the name of Viscount Clifford
de Fleury. Without further reference to the proofs on this
point, it is sufficient to say that, according to the weight of
the evidence, this land was never duly entered in the name of
do Fleury upon the land books of the proper county preceding
the sale in 1871 for the taxes of 1870 ; that that sale was a
mere sham; and that no rights accrued to the purchasers by
reason of it.
Nor did any title pass by the purchase at the tax sale of
September 24th, 1869, of the Messingbird or Messingburg tract
of 12,500 acres. That tract, it is true, appeared, to have been
surveyed in 1795, but the survey was never filed in the land
office of Virginia, and no patent was ever issued. The Welch
tract was also surveyed in the same year, but no patent, based
on that survey, appears to have been issued. The placing of
these tracts, upon the books of Webster County, as the lands
of private persons, claiming under the Messingbird and Welch
surveys, but having no title to the lands, was, therefore, unau-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894,
Opinion of the Court.

thorized by law, and no right to such lands was acquired by
the tax sale of 1869. What has been already said in respect
to the Banks 58,500 acres tract is sufficient to dispose of that
part of the case, namely, that grants were issued for only
nine of the forty-three contiguous surveys made in the name
of Banks, and that none of the lands claimed by the plaintiffs
are within the boundaries of the surveys patented.
In reference to the claim of some of the defendants to own
a portion of the Welch tract, in virtue of a tax sale in 1875 of
63,734 acres, in the name of Francis H-yland, the court below
found from the evidence that no such survey was ever filed in
the land office of Virginia; that no grant was ever issued
thereon; and that no such tract was ever charged with taxes
on the land books of either State. We perceive no reason to
doubt the accuracy of this finding. From such a sale no title
could be derived.
But the defendants insist that, independently of any question
involving their respective claims to the lands in dispute, the
plaintiffs themselves have no title that will authorize any
decree in their behalf. We have seen that in 1875, in the
lifetime of Allen T. Caperton, the lands in dispute, having
been returned delinquent for the non-payment of the taxes
due thereon, were sold by the proper officer, and purchased
by the State of West Virginia, and the title thereto, without
deed and by virtue of the statute, vested at once in the State.
There was no formal redemption by Caperton, who died within
less than a year after such sale ; and it is insisted that his heirs
could not redeem under the laws of West Virginia, at least
after the expiration of one year from the purchase by the
State. In that view, it is contended that the proceedings
hereinbefore referred to, and which were instituted in 1881
in the circuit courts of Webster and Nicholas Counties by the
heirs of Caperton, were ineffectual to restore title; in which
case his heirs could not claim the lands, nor invoke the aid of
a court of equity, whatever might be the invalidity of the
claims asserted by the defendants. Let us see whether this
contention is justified by any reasonable interpretation of the
statutes of West Virginia.

RiCH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

By the constitution of West Virginia, adopted in 1872,
Article XIII, it was provided:
"SECTION 4. All lands in this State, waste and unappropriated, or'heretofore or hereafter for any cause forfeited, or
treated as forfeited, or escheated to the State of Virginia, or
this State, or purchased by either and become irredeemable,
not redeemed, released, transferred, or otherwise disposed of,
the title whereto shall remain in this State till such sale as is
hereinafter mentioned be made, shall, by proceedings in the
Circuit Court of the county in which lands or part thereof
are situated, be sold to the highest bidder.
"SECTION 5. The former owner of any such land shall be entitled to receive the excess of the sum for which the land may
be sold over the taxes charged or chargeable thereon, or which,
if the land had not been forfeited, would have been charged
or chargeable thereon, since the formation of this State, with
interest at the rate of twelve per centum per annum, and the
costs of the proceedings, if his claim be filed in the Circuit
Court that decrees the sale, within two years thereafter."
In order to carry out these constitutional provisions, the
legislature of West Virginia passed the act of April 9th, 1873,
c. 117, entitled " An act to amend and rei~nact chapter thirtyone of the Code of West Virginia, concerning the sale of real
estate for taxes; forfeiture for non-payment and non-assessment of taxes, and the transfer of title vested in the State."
Acts W. Va. 1872-3, p. 308.
This act provides for the sale of lands for taxes, and gives
"the owner of any real estate so sold, his heirs or assigns, or
any person having a right to charge such real estate for a
debt," the right to "redeem the same by paying to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, within one year from the sale
thereof, the amount specified in the receipt mentioned in
the tenth section, [being the receipt given by the sheriff or
collector to the purchaser,] and such additional taxes thereon
as may have been paid by the purchaser, his heirs or assigns,
with interest on said purchase money and taxes at the rate of
twelve per centum per annum from the time the same may
have been so paid." § 15. Infants, married women, insane per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

sons, or persons imprisoned, whose real estate may have been
sold during their respective disabilities, were given the right
to redeem within one year after such disability was removed.
§ 30. If no person present at the sale bid the amount to be
satisfied to the State, it was made the duty of the sheriff or
collector to purchase on behalf of the State for the taxes, with
interest and damages due thereon -making out a list of such
purchases to be transmitted to the auditor and recorded, and
the title vesting in the State, subject, however, to the right of
redemption as prescribed in the same statute. §§ 31, 32. The
right of redemption was to be exercised, within one year from
the sale, by "the previous owner of any real estate so sold
and purchased for the State, his .4eis or actstgn8, or any person
having a right to charge it for a debt." § 33. The statute also
prescribes the mode in which the redemption may be effected
by " any person having a right to redeem any tract or lot of
land purchased by the State at a sale thereof for the non-payment of the taxes thereon." § 34. Another section provides:
"When real estate so purchased is so redeemed, the auditor
shall certify the fact of such redemption to the proper assessor,
and it shall thereupon be the duty of such assessor to reenter
the same upon the land books of the county or district in the
name of the former owner thereof, or in case the same has
been conveyed by deed to any other person, to enter the same
in the name of the grantee in such deed. But such redemption shall not prejudice any claimant of such land or any part
thereof, who may have acquired the State's right thereto by
the constitution or former laws of the State." § 38.
In the same year, November 18th, 1873, was passed the act
heretofore referred to, providing for the sale of. eseheated,
forfeited, and unappropriated lands for the benefit of the
school fund. That act, which amended and reenacted chapter
105 of the Code of West Virginia, provided:
" SEc. 1. All waste and unappropriated lands within this
State, and all lands in this State heretofore vested in the State
of Virginia by forfeiture or purchase at the sheriff's or collector's sale for delinquent taxes and not released and exonerated or redeemed within one year according to law; all lands

RICH v. BRAXTON. .
Opinion of the Court.

heretofore or hereafter purchased for this State, at a sale
thereof for taxes, and not redeemed within one year, according
to law, and all lands forfeited to this State for the failure to
have the same entered upon the books of the assessor and
,charged with the taxes thereon, as provided for by law, shall,
:so far as the title thereof shall not be vested in junior grantees
or claimants under the provisions of the Constitution and laws,
be sold for the benefit of the school fund, in the manner hereinafter prescribed. The auditor shall certify to the clerk of
-the county court a list of all such lands, which, or the greater
part of which, lie in his county, within sixty days after the
title thereto shall vest in the State." ActsW. Va. 1872-3,
c. 134, pp. 449, 450.
It was made the duty of circuit courts to appoint for each
county of their respective circuits a commissioner charged
with the duty of selling, under the direction of the court, lands
of the character named in the statute.
The act further provided: " SEc. 12. The former owner of
any such land, shall be entitled to recover the excess of the sum
for which the land may be sold over the taxes charged and
chargeable thereon, or which if the land had not been forfeited,
would have been charged or chargeable thereon, since the
formation of this State, with interest at the rate of twelve per
centum per annum, and the costs of the proceedings, if his
claim be filed in the circuit court that decrees the sale, within
two years thereafter, as provided in the next section. SEc. 13.
Any such owner may within the time aforesaid, file his petition in the said circuit court stating his title to such lands,
accompanied with the evidences of his title and upon such full
and satisfactory proof that at the time the title to said lands
vested in the State, he had a good and valid title thereto, legal
or equitable, superior to any other claimant thereof. Such
court shall order the excess mentioned in the next preceding
section to be paid to him; and upon a properly certified copy
of such order being presented to the auditor, he shall draw his
warrant on the treasury in favor of such owner or his personal
representative for such excess. At any lime before the sale
of any such land as hereinbefore mentioned, such former

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

owner or any creditor of such former owner of such land, having a lien thereon, may pay into court by and with the consent
of the court, all costs, taxes, and interest due at the time, as
provided for in section twelve of this chapter, and have an order
made in the order book of such court describing the amount
paid in as well as the character of his claim to said land, which
order so made shall operate as a release of all former taxes ou
said land, and no sale thereof shall be made: Provided, That
such payment shall in no way affect or impair the title to any
portion of such land transferred to and vested in any person,
as provided in section three of article thirteen of the constition." Acts W. Va. 1872-3, pp. 454-5.
It will be observed, from an examination of the acts of
April 9th, 1873, and November 16th, 1873: That in the case of
real estate sold for taxes, of which the State became the
purchaser, the first-named act gives "the owner of any real
estate . . . his heirs or assigns or any person having a
right to charge such real estate for a debt," the right to redeem
within one year from the sale; and that in the case of proceedings instituted by the school commissioner in the circuit
court to sell, for the benefit of the school fund, land of which
the State had become the purchaser, the last act gives "the
former owner of any such land" the right to recover the
excess for which it may be sold "over the taxes charged and
chargeable thereon," if his claim be asserted, in such court, by
petition filed within two years after any sale under its orders,
and accompanied by proof of title. But the latter act also gives
to "such former owner or any creditor of such former owner
of such land" the right to redeem " at any time before the sale"
that may be ordered by the circuit court for the benefit of
the school fund.
Now the point made by the defendants is that although
Caperton, if he had lived, could have redeemed at any time
before such sale, his heirs could not redeem at all under the
act of November 16th, 1873, because that act makes no express
reservation for their benefit, and does not, in terms, allow any
one except the former owner, or some creditor of his having a
lien on the land, to take advantage of its provisions.

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

We have not been referred to any decision of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of West Virginia, placing any such interpretation upon the above statutes. None of the cases cited by
counsel for the defendants sustain the proposition that the
heirs of the former owners were excluded from the beneficent
provisions of the act of November 16th, 1873. MoOlure v.
Maitland, 24 W. -Va. 561, only decides that proceedings instituted under that act, for the benefit of the school fund, were,
in a judicial sense, ex parte,and were neither in rein nor in
versonam; neither against the land nor against the former
owners. In that case it was held that as the title had vested
absolutely in the State, the right to redeem was simply of
grace, and must be exercised in the form prescribed by the
statute. This principle was recognized by the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of West Virginia in De
Ilbrest,v. Twnap8on, 40 Fed. Rep. 375, 378, (reported in 32 W.
Va. App. p. 1, under the title of Walkeman v. Tlbompson,) and
subsequently by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit in Read v. Dingess, 8 C. C. App. 526, 539.
The full extent of the decision in MJClure v. Maitland is indicated by the subsequent case of Waggoner v. Wolf, 28 W. Va.
820, 827, in which the court said: " In McClure v. .aitiand,
24 W. Va. 561, this court decided, that as soon as the title to
the land became forfeited and vested in the State, according
to the aforesaid provisions of the constitution, the ownership
of the State became absolute, and her title perfect, and that
the former owner then ceased to have any title, claim, right,
or interest whatever in the land as such owner, and that the
only right conferred upon him by the said fifth section of
the constitution was to be paid the excess of the proceeds of the
sale over the amount of the taxes, in the manner therein prescribed. In that case no petition was filed or offer made to
redeem the land. The effort there was to have the sale of
lands already made set aside at the instance of Maitland, the
former owner. Therefore no question was presented or considered in that case as to the right of the former owner to
redeem the land before sale by the school commissioner; nor
was the power of the legislature to authorize such r edemptioa
VOL. CLViiI-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

before sale either referred to or discussed by the court in its
opinion. The question as to such authority is now for the first
time presented to this court." Neither of these cases involved
any question as to the right of the heirs of the former owner
to redeem prior to any sale based on a petition filed by the
school commissioner under the act of November 16th, 1873.
In the absence of any direct decision of the state court upon
this subject, we are not willing to construe the statutes in question as cutting"off the right of the heirs of the former owner
the latter dying before the expiration of the time (one year)
allowed for redemption by the act of April 9th, 1873 - to
secure the release of his lands from all former taxes, and
thereby to prevent such lands from being sold for the benefit
of the school fund, as prescribed by the act of November 16th,
1873.
It is quite true that upon the sale on the 26th of
September, 1875, of the lands here in question (standing on the
land records in the name of Caperton) the title, by virtue of
the statute, passed to the State upon its purchase of them, and
that title became indefeasible upon the expiration of one year
without redemption. But it is clear, from the express words
of section 33 of the act of April 9th, 1873, that the heirs of
Caperton, he having died before the expiration of one year,
could within that year have redeemed in the mode prescribed
by that act. If there was no redemption, within the time
named, the title remained in the State until the lands were
sold under proceedings instituted in the proper circuit court
of the county by the school commissioner. Section 13 of the
act of November 16th, 1873, was in the direction of liberality
and forbearance towards those whose lands had been taken for
taxes. And in the condition of the land titles of the State,
there was every reason why the State should enable those
who, but for the sale at which it purchased, would, under the
law, be the owners of the lands, to have them released from
" all former taxes," provided they moved in the matter before
the lands were actually sold by direction of the Circuit Court in
the proceedings instituted by the commissioner of school lands.
The words "former owner" in section 13 of the last act
embrace those who, in law, would have owned the lands, upon

RICH v. BIRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

the death of such owner, if they had not been sold for taxes,
or, if sold, had been redeemed within the prescribed time after
the sale at which the State purchased. If the heirs of Caperton
had redeemed the lands on the last day of the year within
which the State permitted redemption from the original sale
for taxes, the title, which vested in the State by its purchase,
would, under the act of April 9th, 1873 have been at once reinvested in them without any deed, from the State, or without
the execution of any instrument except a certificate showing
the payment of what was due the State. And if Caperton
had been alive during the proceedings instituted by the school
commissioner in the Circuit Court, his right, under the act
of November 16th, 1873, to redeem at any time before a sale
under the order of the court, for the benefit of the school fund,
could not be, indeed, is not questioned. It is inconceivable that
the legislature intended to deny that privilege to his heirs,
who succeeded to whatever rights he had in respect to these
lands. What the State wished was the payment of its taixes
and all damages due for the failure to pay them at the proper
time. No considerations of public policy can be suggested in
support of the contention, based upon the mere letter of the
statute, that there was a purpose to withhold from the heirs
of the former owner the privilege of redemption given to the
ancestor. The two statutes of 1873 are in pari materia, and
must be construed together in order to ascertain the intention
of the legislature.
Much stress is placed by the defendants upon the reservations
made in the acts of April 9th, 1873, and November 16th, 1873,
of the rights previously vested under section 3 of Article XIII
of the state constitution. They claim to have had rights of
that character at the time these lands were forfeited for the
non-payment of taxes by Caperton, and that those rights
became complete and unassailable before the redemption by
Caperton's heirs in 1881. By that section of the state constitution, hereinbefore set out, the title to lands of the
character described which were not redeemed, released or
otherwise disposed of, and which was vested in and remained
in the State, was transferred to and vested -

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

1. In any person (other than those for whose'default the
same may have been forfeited or returned delinquent, their
heirs or devisees) for so much thereof as such person shall have
had actual, continuous possession of under color or claim of
title for ten years, and who, or those under whom he claims,
shall have paid the state taxes thereon for any five years
during such possession; or,
2. If there were no such person, then to any person (other
than those for whose default the same may have been forfeited
or returned delinquent, their heirs or devisees) for so much of
said land as such person shall have title to, regularly derived,
mediately or iimnediately, from or under a grant from the
Commonwealth of Virginia, which, but for the title forfeited,
would be valid, and -who, or those under whom he claims, has
or shall have paid all state taxes charged or chargeable thereon
for five successive years after the year 1865, or from the date
of the grant, if it was issued after that year; or,
3. If there were no such person as aforesaid, then to any
person (other than those for whose default the same may
have been forfeited or returned delinquent, their heirs or devisees) for so much of said land as such person shall have
had claim to and actual, continuous possession of, under color
of title, for any five successive years after the year 1865, and
have paid all state taxes charged or chargeable thereon for
said period.
The defendants' case cannot be deemed to belong to the first
or third of these classes, for the reason, if there were no other,
that the evidence fails to show actual, continuous possession
for ten years, or for five successive years after 1865, under
color or claim of title. We concur with the learned District
Judge in holding that the defendants "have failed by any evidence to prove the possession of this land, before the suit was
brought, for five consecutive years. The possession attempted
to be set up was of such a transitory character as to be utterly
unreliable. It was not the actual, continuous possession for
five consecutive years contemplated by the constitution."
The evidence of the principal witnesses for the defendants
was, as the court below well said, "lacking in all of those

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

essential elements that go to make up a continuous adverse
possession or holding."
Nor can the defendants bring themselves within the second
of the above classes described in section three of article thirteen of the state constitution. In cases of that class possession is not required; but title, regularly derived, was required.
Assuming the correctness of what has been said in reference
to the title asserted by the defendants, and which need not be
here repeated, it is idle to say that they had title to any part
of the lands claimed by the plaintiff, "regularly derived," mediately or immediately, from or under a grant either from
Virginia or from West Virginia.
Upon the question of the jurisdiction of a court of equity
to give the relief sought by the bill, but little need to be said.
In Simpson v. Edmiston, 23 W. Va. 675, 678, the court said
that it had been repeatedly held that a court of equity has
jurisdiction to set aside an illegal tax deed - citing Forqueran
v. Donnally, 7 W. Va. 114; Jones v. Dils, 18 W. Va. 759;
and Orr v. Wiley, 19 W. Va. 150. And in Danserv. Johnson,
25 W. Va. 380, 387: "It is fully settled in this State that a
court of equity has jurisdiction to set aside a void tax deed."
These authorities make it clear that if this case had remained
in the state court no objection could have been made to the
form of the suit. But as the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States, sitting in equity, cannot be controlled by
the laws of the States or the decisions of the state courtsexcept that the courts of the United States, sitting in equity,
may enforce new rights of an equitable nature created by such
laws, Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195; Holland v. Challen, 1.10
U. S.15 - it is proper to say that, according to settled principles, the plaintiffs were entitled to invoke the aid of a court
of equity.
The principal ground upon which the contrary view is
rested by the appellants is, that the bill assails the tax deeds
under which they claim as fraudulent, void, and inoperative.
And to support this view several adjudged cases are cited,
some of which hold that where the title is merely legal, and
where the validity of one title or the invalidity of another

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

clearly appears on the face of documents that 'are accessible,
and no particular circumstances are stated, showing the necessity for interference by equity, either for preventing suits or
other vexation, the remedy is at law.
ipp v. Babin, 19
How. 271 ; Whitelhead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146, 156; Scott
v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 110; Smyth v. N. 0. Canal & Banking Co., 141 U. S. 656, 660. The principle is thus stated by
Mr. Justice Story: "Where the illegality of the agreement,
deed, or other instrument appears upon the face of it, so that
its nullity can admit of no doubt, the same reason for the interference of courts of equity to direct it to be cancelled or
delivered up, would not seem to apply; for, in such a case,
there can be no danger that the lapse of time may deprive
the party of his full means of defence; nor can it, in a just
sense, be said that such a paper can throw a cloud over his
right or title, or diminish its security; nor is it capable of
being used as a means of vexatious litigation, or serious injury." 1 Eq. Juris. § 700 a.
These authorities do not control the present question. It
must be remembered that "it is not enough that there is a
remedy at law; it must be plain and adequate, or, in other
words, as practical and efficient to the ends of justice and its
prompt administration as the remedy in equity." Boyce v.
Grizndy, 3 Pet. 210, 215; Drexel v. Berney, 122 U. S. 241,
252; Allen v. Ianks, 136 U. S. 300, 311. And the applicability of the rule depends upon the circumstances of each case.
Watson v. Sutherland, 5 Wall. 74, 79. In the case now before
us it cannot be said that the invalidity of the deeds which
the plaintiffs seek to have cancelled appears on their face.
It is not clear that their invalidity can be placed beyond question or doubt, without evidence dehors those deeds.
Besides, by the laws of West Virginia the tax deeds under
which the defendants claim are primafacie evidence against
the owner or owners, legal or equitable, of the real estate at
the time it was sold, his or their heirs or assigns, and all other
persons who might have redeemed the same within the time
prescribed by law, and conclusive evidence against all other
persons, that the material facts recited in them are true. Code

RICH v. BRAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

of W. Va. 1868, c. 31, § 29; Acts of W. Va. 1872-3, c. 117,
§ 29; Code of W. Va. 1891, c. 31, § 29. Mr. Pomeroy, in his
Treatise on Equity Jurisprudence, while recognizing it to be
the general rule, established by the weight of authority, that
equity will not interfere to remove a cloud from title "where
the instrument or proceeding constituting the alleged cloud
is absolutely void on its face, so that no extrinsic evidence is
necessary to show its invalidity," or "where the instrument
or proceeding is not thus void on its face, but the party claiming, in order to enforce it, must necessarily offer evidence
which will inevitably show its invalidity and destroy its efficacy " - which doctrine, he says, often operates to produce
a denial of justice - correctly says that equity will interfere
where deeds, certificates, and other instruments given on sales
for taxes are made by statute prima facie evidence of the
regularity of proceedings connected with the assessments and
sales. 3 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. § 1399, and note 1, p. 437, and
authorities there cited. And this view is sustained by numerous adjudged cases. f-untington v. Central Paci§c Railroad,
2 Sawyer, 503, 514; Allen v. City of Buf'falo, 39 N. Y. 386,
390; Palmer v. Rich, 12 Michigan, 414, 419; Marquette,
Houghton & Ontonagon Railroad v. -Marquette,35 Michigan,
504; Milwaukee Iron Co. v. Town of Htubbard, 29 Wisconsin,
51, 58; Weller v. City of St. Paul,5 Minnesota, 95; Pixley v.
Hfuggins, 15 California, 127 ; Tilton v. 0. C. X. . Co., 3 Sawyer, 22. See also 2 Blackwell on Tax .Titles, § 1066, and
authorities cited. In the present case there are no defects
of a controlling character that distinctly appear on the face
of the tax deeds under which the defendants claim title. And
as those deeds are made by statute prima facie evidence of
title in the grantees named in them; and as, therefore, the
plaintiffs, if sued in ejectment by the defendants, would be
compelled, in order to defeat a recovery against them, to
resort to extrinsic evidence in support of their title, the deeds
in question constitute a cloud upon that title, to remove which
the plaintiffs may rightfully invoke the aid of a court of
equity.
The decree is
Affirmed.

