RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

253

Statement of the Case.

an express provision giving parties an ultimate recourse to
the courts. _Iangdeau v.
21 Wall. 521, involved no
2lutes,
assertion of a power in the courts to destroy a survey duly
made; there the survey had been made, and was not assailed.
The finding of the court below in that case, which was here
affirmed, was as follows: "1st. That the act of confirmation
of 1807 was a present grant, becoming so far operative and
complete, to convey the legal title when the land was located
and surveyed by the United States in 1820, as that an action
of ejectment could be maintained on the same." In TVitney
v. Morrow, 112 U. S. 693, there had been an unquestioned
segregation of the property after the confirmation by the com-

missioners under a special act of Congress, by long-continued
actual possession.
Nothing in the record indicates that the defendant in error
has availed himself of the legal privilege of appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, and of course his right to so do is not
concluded by any expression of opinion which we have made.
Our conclusion is, that the instruction requested by the defendant was wrongfully refused in the lower court, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico,
which upheld the action of the court below, was erroneous.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment be
R~eversed.

RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT COMPANY.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

DISTRICT
No. 321.

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

OF COLORADO.

Submitted April 29, 1895.- Decided May 20, 1895.

A survey made by the proper officers of the United States, and confirmed
by the Land Department, is not open to challenge by any collateral
attack in the courts.

ON May 19, 1888, the defendant in error, as plaintiff, commenced this action in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Colorado to recover the possession of a cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tain tract of land. After answer the case came on for final
trial on October 10, 1890. The verdict and judgment were
in favor of the plaintiff, and the defendants allege error.
The facts disclosed by the testimony are substantially these:
On May 19, 1879, a patent was issued by the United States
to Charles Beaubien and Guadalupe Miranda, their heirs and
assigns, for a tract of land known as the Maxwell Land Grant.
This patent recites that on January 11, 1841, 'the territorial
governor of New Mexico (that being at the time a part of the
Republic of Mexico) made a grant to Beaubien and Miranda
of a tract of land with specified boundaries; that on June 21,
1860, Congress passed an act confirming such grant, with the
boundaries therein specified; that on December 16, 1878, the
Surveyor General of the United States for the Territory of
New Mexico returned to the Land Department at Washington
a survey officially made, givino, in detail the boundaries as
established by that survey; and in terms "grants the tract of
land embraced and described in the foregoing survey." The
land in controversy is within the limits of the survey, and
thus within the terms of the patent. In 1871 the regular surveys of public lands in the southern part of Colorado were
extended so as to include this land, which by those surveys
was marked and described as the west half of the southeast
quarter, and the northeast. quarter of the southwest quarter,
and the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section
20, township 33 south, range 68 west of sixth principal meridian. On April 6, 1874, Richard D. Russell, the ancestor of
defendants, applied at the local land office to enter this tract
under the homestead laws, and on September 5, 1876, proved
up and received his final receipt therefor.
Xr. ra W. Btuell, Jr. W. S. Hlarbert, and A/ir. George i.
Daley for plaintiffs in error.
/r. C/iarles E. Gast and XMr. Frank Springer for defendant in error.
M .JUSTICE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

255

Opinion of the Court.

The Maxwell Land Grant is no stranger to this court.
After the issue of the patent a bill was filed by the United
States to set it aside on the ground of error and fraud, and
after an exhaustive investigation, both in the Circuit and this
court, a decree was entered, dismissing the bill. Maxwell
Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325; 122 U. S. 365; interstate
Land Company v. Maxwell Land Grant Company, 139 U. S.
569, 580, in which it was said:
"The confirmation and patenting of the grant to Beaubien
and Miranda operated to divest the United States of all their
rights to the land embraced in the grant which this country
acquired from Mexico by the treaty of Guadalupe Hlidalgo.
And the only way that that grant can be defeated now is
to show that the lands embraced in it had been previously
granted by the Mexican government to some other person."
See also Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; .More v. Steinbach,
127 U. S.70. The confirmation of this grant was made by
act of Congress of June 21, 1860, c. 167, 12 Stat. 71. Whatever doubts might have existed before as to the limits or
extent of the grant, were settled by that confirmation. Langdeau v. Ilanes, 21 Wall. 521; Tameling v. United States
Freehold Co., 93 U. S.644. The only claim of the defendants
is one under the United States, arising on April 6, 1874, fourteen years after the confirmation of the Maxwell Land Grant.
It is therefore inferior and subordinate to that of the plaintiff.
In order to obviate the effect of this, the defendants offered
to prove on the trial that the survey described in and upon
which the patent was based was inaccurate, and that a correct survey would run the lines of the Maxwell Land Grant
so as to exclude therefrom the tract in controversy. This
testimony was rejected by the court, and this is the error
complained of.
In the suit brought to set aside the patent, it was said by
this court, 121 U. S.382:
"In regard to the questions concerning the surveys, as to
their conformity to the original Mexican grant and the frauds
which are asserted to have had some influence in the making
of those surveys, so far from their being established by that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

satisfactory and conclusive evidence which the rule we have
here laid down requires, we are of opinion that if it were an
open question, unaffected by the respect due to the official acts
of the government upon such a subject, depending upon the
bare preponderance of evidence, there is an utter failure to
establish either mistake or fraud."
The accuracy of the survey is, therefore, so far as the govermnent is concerned, no longer open to inquiry. If in a
direct proceeding in equity brought by the United States to
set aside the patent on the ground of error in the survey
the matter has become res judiala, it would seem that the
patentee could not be compelled in every action at law
between itself and its neighbors to submit the question of the
accuracy of the survey as a matter of fact to determination
by a jury. Nor is the matter open to such inquiry. A survey
made by the proper officers of the United States, and confirmed by the Land Department, is not open to challenge by
any collateral attack in the courts. By section 453, Revised
Statutes, full jurisdiction over the survey and sale of the
public lands of the United States, and also in respect to
private claims of land, is vested in the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, subject to the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior. In Cragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691, 698, it
was said by Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking for the court, and
citing in support thereof a number of cases:
"That the power to make and correct surveys of the public
lands belongs to the political department of the government,
and that, whilst the lands are subject to the supervision of the
General Land Office, the decisions of that. bureau in all such
cases, like that of other special tribunals upon matters within
their exclusive jurisdiction, are unassailable by the courts,
except by a direct proceeding; and that the latter have no
concurrent or origfinal power to make similar corrections, if
not an elementary principle of our land law, is settled by such
a mass of decisions of this court that its mere statement is
sufficient."
The case of Beard v. Iiedery, supra, is in point. In that
case the effect of a patent to land in'
California, after confirma-

RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAN)

GRANT CO.

257

Opinion of the Court.

tion and survey, was before the court. The land, as in this
case, was claimed under an old Mexican grant, and while the
proceeding for confirmation of such claims in California differed from that pursued in New Mexico, yet the result of
the confirmation was the same. There as here was a statutory
provision that the confirmation should not prejudice the rights
of third persons, and some reliance was placed upon that provision. It was said by the court, discussing this entire question, on page 492:
"By it (the patent) the government declares that the claim
asserted was valid under the laws of Mexico; that it was
entitled to recognition and protection by the stipulations of
the treaty, and might have been located under the former
government, and is correctly located now, so as to embrace
the premises as they are surveyed and described. As against
the government this record, so long as it remains unvacated,
is conclusive. And it is equally conclusive against parties
claiming under the government by title subsequent. It is in
this effect of the patent as a record of the government that its
security and protection chiefly lie. If parties asserting interests in lands acquired since the acquisition of the country could
deny and controvert this record, and compel the patentee, in
every suit for his land, to establish the validity of his claim,
his right to its confirmation, and the correctness of the action
of the tribunals and officers of the United States in the location
of the same, the patent would fail to be, as it was intended it
should be, an instrument of quiet and security to its possessor.
The patentee would find his title recognized in one suit and
rejected in another, and if his title were maintained, he would
find his land located in as many different places as the varying prejudices, interests, or notions of justice of witnesses and
jurymen might suggest. Every fact upon which the decree
and patent rest would be open to contestation. The intruder,
resting solely upon his possession, might insist that the
original claim was invalid, or was not properly located, and,
therefore, he could not be disturbed by the patentee. No
construction which will lead to such results can be given to
the fifteenth section. The term ' third persons,' as there used,
voi.. ci.viI-1 7

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

does not embrace all persons other than the United States and
the claimants, but only those who hold superior titles, such as
will enable them to resist successfully any action of the government in disposing of the property."
In More v. Steinbach, supra, the same propositions were
affirmed, the court saying, on page 83: "All the questions
necessarily involved in the determination of a claim to land
under a Spanish or Mexican grant, and in establishing its
boundaries, are concluded by it in all courts and proceedings,
except as against parties claiming by superior title, such as
would enable them to resist successfully any action of the
government in disposing of the property." See also Stone'roadv. Stoneroad, ante, 240.
These authorities are decisive upon this question. And in
the nature of things a survey made by the government must
be held conclusive against any collateral attack in controversies between individuals. There must be some tribunal to
which final jurisdiction is given in respect to the matter of
surveys, and no other tribunal is so competent to deal with
the matter as the Land Department. None other is named in
the statutes. If in every controversy between neighbors the
accuracy of a survey made by the government were open to
question, interminable confusion would ensue. Take the particular case at bar; if the survey is not conclusive in favor of
the plaintiff, it is not conclusive against it. So we might have
the land grant company bringing suit against parties all along
its borders, claiming that, the survey being inaccurate, it was
entitled to a portion of their lands, and, as in every case the
question of fact would rest upon the testimony therein presented, we should doubtless have a series of contradictory
verdicts ; and out of those verdicts, and the judgments based
thereon, a multitude of claims against the United States for
return of money erroneously paid for land not obtained, or for
a readjustment of boundaries so as to secure to the patentees
in some other way the amounts of land they had purchased.
It may be said that the defendants have the same right to
rely upon the regular surveys, that the plaintiff has upon the
survey of this special land grant. This is undoubtedly true,

RUSSELL v. MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO.

259

Opinion of the Court.

but the survey is one thing and the title another. If sectional
lines had been run through the entire limits of the Maxwell
grant, it would not thereby have defeated the grant or avoided
the effect of the confirmatory act. A survey does not create
title; it only defines boundaries. Conceding the accuracy of
a survey is not an admission of title. So the boundaries of the
tract claimed by defendants may not be open to dispute, but
their title depends on the question whether the United States
owned the land when their ancestor filed his homestead claim
thereon. If at that time the government had no title, it could
convey none.
In this connection it may be well to notice a distinction
which interprets some dicta and decisions found in respect to
the jurisdiction of courts over boundaries. Whether a survey
as originally made is correct or not is one thing, and that, as
we have seen, is a matter committed exclusively to the Land
Department, and over which the courts have no jurisdiction
otherwise than by original proceedings in equity. While on the
other hand, where the lines run by such survey lie on the ground,
and whether any particular tract is on one side or the other of
that line, are questions of fact which are always open to inquiry in the courts. In the case before us the offer was not to
show that the land in controversy was one side or other of the
line established by the survey. On the contrary, it was conceded that it was within the limits of the survey, and the offer
was simply to show that that survey was inaccurate, and that
the lines should have been run elsewhere, but this is not a
matter for inquiry in this collateral way in the courts.
There was no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and
its judgment is
Affirmed.

