OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

view of the many questions arising under the Mexican law as
to the actual condition of the title of the land covered by the
grant to the pueblo previous to its confirmation, he took the
precaution, which at the time was deemed wise, to act as
the attorney of the ostensible owner rather than as the actual
owner, and that subsequently a deed was transmitted to Teall
for execution, conveying the title in fee to Devine in the place
of the power of attorney. But, as stated, news of his sickness
having been received by Devine, it was thought best to convey the title to Rhodes, who subsequently could convey it to
Devine in case a deed was not received from Teall before his
death. This may seem to be a strained view of the case, but
considering the silence which Teall and his relatives observed
respecting the property, the refusal of every one who might
claim under him if he continued in possession of a valid title
to take part in any attempt to disturb Devine's title, and the
continued management and control of the property by the
latter for twenty-four years, it does not make the suggestion
at all improbable.
Whether this be true or not, the right of Devine, after so
many years of undisputed and notorious possession of the
property, with a claim of its ownership shuts out, under the
statute of limitations of California, the claims of all other
persons either to its possession or ownership.
Decree afrmed.

SAYWARD v. DENNY.
ERROR

rO

TIlE SUPREME

No. 951.

COURT

Or

THE STATE

Submitted April 22, 1895. -

OF WASHINGTON.

Decided Tty 6, 1895.

When the validity of no treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under,
the United States, nor of a statute of, or authority exercised under, any
State, is drawn in question by a state court, it is essential to the maintenance of jurisdiction here that it should appear that some title, right, privilege, or immunity under the Constitution or laws of the United States was
specially set up or claimed there, and that the decision of the highest

SAYWARD v. DENNY.
Statement of the Case.
court of the State, in which such decision could be had, was against the
title, right, privilege, or immunity so set up or claimed; and in that
regard, certain propositions must be regarded as settled: 1. That the
certificate of the presiding judge of the state court, as to the existence
of grounds upon which the interposition of this court might be successfully invoked, while always regarded with respect, cannot confer jurisdiction to re6xamine the judgment below; 2. That the title, right,
privilege, or immunity must be specially set up or claimed at the proper
time and in the proper way; 3. That such claim cannot be recognized as
properly made when made for the first time in a petition for rehearing
after judgment; 4. That the petition for the writ of error forms no part
of the record upon which action is taken here; 5. Nor do the arguments
of counsel, though the opinions of the state courts are now made such
by rule; 6. The right on which the party relies must have been called to
the attention of the court, in some proper way, and the decision of the
court must have been against the right claimed; 7. Or, at all events, it
must appear from the record, by clear and necessary intendment, that
the Federal question was directly involved so that the state court could
not have given judgment without deciding it; that is, a definite issue as
to the possession of the right must be distinctly deducible from the
record before the state court can be held to have disposed of such
Federal question by its decision.
Tested by these principles it is quite apparent that this writ of error must
be dismissed.

MOTION to dismiss. This was an action at law brought by
Arthur A. Denny and F. X. Prefontaine, as executors of the
last will and testament of James Crawford, deceased, against
William P. Sayward, in the Superior Court of Xitsap County,
State of Washington, to recover moneys paid by James Crawford on a contract which he had executed as surety for
William P. Sayward as principal. The complaint alleged
that the contract referred to was executed by Sayward as principal, by and through his authorized agent, George A. Meigs,
and by George A. Meigs, James Crawford, and William Harrington as sureties, and set it forth ini lcec verba, it being an
agreement for the purchase of logs of Dinuwall and Haller,
to be used in certain lumber mills belonging to Sayward. It
was further averred that Crawford and Iarrington had no
interest in the contract and executed it only as sureties for
the accommodation of Sayward ; that afterwards Haller comienced an action thereon for the purchase price of the logs,
against Crawford, Harrington, Meigs, and Sayward; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Crawford and Harrington appeared in an(1 defended the action, as did Meigs, and such proceedings were had therein
that about November 3, 1882, Haller recovered judgment
against Crawford, lfarrington, and Meigs in the sum of
$15,248.01 with costs; " that said Sayward was never served
with process in said action, and never appeared in said action ;
that at all the times during the pendency of said action he was
outside of the State (then Territory) of Washington, and was
out of the jurisdiction of said court ;" that Crawford died
leaving a last will and testament, in which plaintiffs were
named as executors ; that the will was duly admitted to probate, and plaintiffs appointed and qualified and entered upon
their duties as executors ; that thereafter Haller presented his
claim to said executors as a judgment creditor, and the executors were compelled to pay, and did pay, out of Crawford's
estate for the use of defendant Sayward the sum of $9200, to
apply, and it was applied, to the payment of the judgment;
that Sayward had never repaid said sum of money to Crawford or his estate, or any part thereof, and it remained due
with interest; that at the time the judgment was obtained,
and at the time the cause of action accrued against Sayward,
he was out of and absent from the State of Washington, and
at no time since the cause of action accrued, until within a
year prior to the comnencement of the action, had Sayward
returned or come into the State of Washington. To this complaint defendant demurred, on the ground that it (lid not
"state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action." The
demurrer was overruled, and defendant excepted ; and thereupon answered, denying the allegations of the complaint
except that he was the owner of the mills for the manufacture of lumber mentioned thereiin; averred that he was never
served with process in the original action nor appeared therein;
and pleaded as affirmative defences, the statute of limitations
and that the executors were discharged from their trust and
wore not competent to bring the action. The cause was
tried by a jury, and, upon the verdict, the executors obtained
a judgment against Say ward for the sum of $17,680.25, whereupon he appealed to the Supreme Court of the State of

SAYWARD v. DENNY.
Opinion of the Court.

Washington, alleging errors, and the judgment was by that
court affirmed. The case is reported, in advance of the official
series, 39 Pac. Rep. 119. A writ of error from this court was
allowed by the Chief Justice of Washington, and a motion to
dismiss was submitted.
-Mr. G. M. Emory for the motion.
Mr. Ctlarles . Slkepard opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
As the validity of no treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States, nor of a statute of, or authority
exercised under, any State, was drawn in question, it is essential to the maintenance of our jurisdiction that it should appear
that some title, right, privilege, or immunity under the Constitution or laws of the United States was specially set up or
claimed in the state court, and that the decision of the highest
court of the State, in which such decision could be had, w.as
against the title, right, privilege, or immunity so set up or
claimed. And in that regard, certain propositions must be
regarded as settled. 1. That the certificate of the presiding
judge of the state court, as to the existence of grounds upon
which our interposition might be successfully invoked, while
always regarded with respect, cannot confer jurisdiction upon
this court to redxamine the judgment below. Powell v.
Brunswieo County, 150 U. S. 433, 439, and cases cited.
2. That the title, right, privilege, or immunity must be specially set up or claimed at the proper time and in the proper
way. JMiller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535; Jforrison v. Wrason',
154 U. S. 111, 115, and cases cited. 3. That such claim cannot
be recognized as properly made when made for the first time in
a petition for rehearing after judgment. Loeber v. Schroeder,
149 U. S. 580, 585, and cases cited. 4. That the petition for
the writ of error forms no part of the record upon which action
is taken here. Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52, and cases cited.
5. Nor do the arguments of counsel, though the opinions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

state courts are now made such by rule. Gibson v. Chouteau,
8Wall. 314 ; Paqneleev. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36 ; Gross v. U. S.
Mortgag'e Co., 108 U. S. 477, 484; United States v. Taylo,
147 U. S. 695, 700. 6. The right on which the party relies
must have been called to the attention of the court, in some
proper way, and the decision of the court must have been
against the right claimed. Jloyt v. Sheldon, I Black, 518;
Maxwell v. Ncwbold, 18 How. 511, 515. 7. Or, at all events,
it must appear from the record, by clear and necessary intendment, that the Federal question was directly involved so
that the state court could not have given judgment without
deciding it ; that is, a definite issue as to the possession of the
right must be distinctly deducible from the record before the
state court can be held to have disposed of such Federal question by its decision. Powell v. Brun8swick County, 150 U. S.
400, 433.
Testod by these principles it is quite apparent that this writ
of error must be dismissed.
The errors assigned question the various rulings of the trial
court, which were passed on and sustained by the Supreme
Court, but of these, reference need be made to but two, namely,
in respect of the admission in evidence of the judgment recovered by ialler against Crawford, and the exclusion of
evidence offered to show that Sayward was not liable to Hallcr to the extent of the judgment recovered by Haller against
Crawford. The contention is that the result of the rulings
and decisions of the trial court in these respects, as affirmed
by the Supreme Court, was to hold plaintiff in error conclusively bound by the judgment rendered against Crawford in
an action "in which he was not a party and of which he had
no notice ;" and that this was in effect to deprive him of his
property without due process of law, or to deny him the equal
protection of the laws, and amounted to a decision adverse to
the right, privilege, or immunity of plaintiff in error under the
Constitution of being protected from such deprivation or
denial.
But it nowhere affirmatively appears from the record that
such a right was set up or claimed in the trial court when the

SAYWAiRD v. DENNY.
Opinion of the Court.

demurrer to the complaint was overruled, or evidence admitted or excluded, or instructions given or refused, or in the
Supreme Court in disposing of the rulings below.
The Supreme Court treated the subject of the admission of
the judgment as follows:
"The next contention grows out of the action of the court
in admitting in evidence a copy of the judgment upon which
the money sought to be recovered had been paid by plaintiffs.
The reason for objecting to the introduction of this copy was
that the defendant had not been served with process in the
action, and could not be affected by the judgment. Authorities have been cited to establish the doctrine that one not
served with process in an action is not bound by a judgment
rendered therein; but they are none of them in point, under
the circumstances of this case. A judgment against the sureties, rendered without their consent, and especially after a
defence made in good faith by them, is at least pr)iimafacie
sufficient to authorize them to recover of their principal the
amount which they have been called upon to pay thereon;
and if the principal had knowledge of the pendency of the
action, even though he was not served with process therein,
the judgment rendered against the sureties, without fault on
their part, would be conclusive in an action by them to recover
money which they had paid on account of such judgment."
And, as to the exclusion of evidence complained of, the
Supreme Court said:
"The foundation of the next allegation of error is stated by
the appellant as follows: ' In a suit by surety for subrogation,
principal entitled to use every legal defence.' This is not an
exact statement of the principle which it is claimed was negatived by the court upon the trial. The plaintiffs did not seek
a technical subrogation, to the rights of the plaintiff in the
original action; they sought an independent recovery of
money which they had paid on account of the defendant,
and introduced the judgment only for the purpose of showing
that such payment was not a voluntary one. As stated before,
the weight of authority is to the effect that a judgment like
the one sought to be introduced in the case at bar is at least

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

primafacie evidence as against the principal ; and that it is
conclusive unless some collusion or fraud upon the part of the
surety is shown. The testimony offered by the defendant
did not tend to show any such fraud or collusion, and, if it
did, it was not competent under the pleadings. There was no
sufficient allegation of fraud or collusion on the part of the
sureties in the answer. Besides, we think the evidence disclosed a state of facts from which it could be fairly presumed
that defendant had notice of the pendency of the former suit."
We are not called on to revise these views of the principles
of general law considered applicable to the case in hand. It
is enough that there' is nothing in the record to indicate that
the state courts were led to suppose that plaintiff in error
claimed protection under the Constitution of the United States
from the several rulings, or to suspect that each ruling as
made involved a decision against a right specially set up under
that instrument. And we may add that the decisions of state
tribunals in respect of matters of general law cannot be reviewed on the theory that the law of the land is violated
unless their conclusions are absolutely free from error.
Writ of error dismissed.

THE OREGON.'
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 270, 278.

Argued April 8, 9,1895. -

) eided M[y 6,1895.

A steamer steaming in a dark night at the rate of fifteen miles an hour
through a narrow inland channel where a local pilot is put in charge of
it, should have a lookout stationed on either bow, and the master should

be on deck; but a failure to comply with these requirements will not, in
1 The Docket titles of these cases are:

"No.

270, John Simpson v. The

Steamer Oregon, her tackle &c., the Oregon Short Line and Utah Northern
Railway Company: " No. 273, "Tl7he Oregon Short Line and Utah Northern
Railway Company v. The Ship Clan Mackenzie, John Simpson, Claimant,
e al."

