OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

his assailant, who, according to one view of the evidence, had
threatened to kill the defendant, in execution of that purpose
had armed himself with a deadly weapon, with that weapon
concealed upon his person went to the defendant's premises,
despite the warning of the latter to keep away, and by word
and act indicated his purpose to attack the accused. The
defendant was where he had the right to be, when the
deceased advanced upon him in a threatening manner, and
with a deadly weapon; and if the accused did not provoke the
assault and had at the time reasonable grounds to believe and
in good faith believed, that the deceased intended to take his
life or do him great bodily harm, he was not obliged to retreat,
nor to consider whether he could safely retreat, but was
entitled to stand his ground and meet any attack made upon
him with a deadly weapon, in such way and with such force
as, under all the circumstances, he, at the moment, honestly
believed, and had reasonable grounds to believe, was necessary
to save his own life or to protect himself from great bodily
injury.
As the proceedings below were not conducted in accordance
with these principles, the judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded with directions to grant a new trial.
Other objections to the charge of the court are raised by
the assignments of error, but as the questions which they
present may not arise upon another trial, they will not be
now examined.
Judgment 'eversed.
nowexamined.
IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 11.

Original.

Argued March 25, 26, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

The order of the Circuit Court finding the petitioners guilty of contempt,
and sentencing them to imprisonment, was not a final judgment or decree.
The government of the United States has jurisdiction over every foot of
soil within its territory, and acts directly upon each citizen.

While it is a government of enumerated powers, it has full attributes of
sovereignty within the limits of those powers, among which are the

IN

RiE DEBS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

power over interstate commerce and the power over the transmission
of the mails.
The powers thus conferred are not dormant, but have been assumed and
put into practical exercise by Congressional legislation.
In the exercise of those powers the United States may remove everything
put upon highways, natural or artificial, to obstruct the passage of interstate commerce, or the carrying of the mails.
While it may be competent for the government, through the executive
branch and in the use of the entire executive power of the Nation, to
forcibly remove all such obstructions, it is equally within its competency
to appeal to the civil courts for an inquiry and determination as to the
existence and the character of any of them, and if such are found to exist
,or threaten to occur, to invoke the powers of those courts to remove or
restrain them, the jurisdiction of courts to interfere in such matters
by injunction being recognized from ancient times and by indubitable
authority.
Such jurisdiction is not ousted by the fact that the obstructions are accompanied by or consist of acts in themselves violations of the criminal law,
,or by the fact that the proceeding by injunction is of a civil character,
.and may be enforced by proceedings in contempt; as the penalty for a
violation of such injunction is no substitute for, and no defence to, a
prosecution for criminal offences committed in the course of such violation.
'The complaint filed in this case clearly shows an existing obstruction of
artificial highways for the passage of interstate commerce and the transmission of the mails, not only temporarily existing, but threatening to
continue, and under it the Circuit Court had power to issue its process
of injunction.
Such an injunction having been issued and served upon the defendants, the
Circuit Court had authority to inquire whether its orders had been disobeyed, and when it found that they had been disobeyed, to proceed under
Rev. Stat. ยง 725, and to enter the order of punishment complained of.
The Circuit Court having full jurisdiction in the premises,.its findings as to
the act of disobedience are not open to review on habeas corpus in this
or any other court.
'The court enters into no examination of the act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26
Stat. 209, on which the Circuit Court mainly relied to sustain its jurisdiction; but it must not be understood that it dissents from the conclusions
of that court in reference to the scope of that act, but simply that it
prefers to rest its judgment on the broader ground discussed in its opinion, believing it important that the principles underlying it should be
fully stated and fully affirmed.

ON July 2, 1894, the United States, by Thomas E. Milchrist,
district attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, under
the direction of Richard Olney, Attorney General, filed their

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois against these petitioners and
others. This bill set forth, among other things, the following
facts: It named twenty-two railroad companies, and it alleged
that they were engaged in the business of interstate commerce
and subject to the provisions of the act of Congress of February 4, 1887, known as "the Interstate Commerce Act," and
all other laws of the United States relating to interstate transportation of passengers and freight; that the number of passengers annually carried by them into the city of Chicago from
other States than Illinois, and out of Chicago into other States
than Illinois, was more than twelve millions, and in like manner that the freight so carried into and out of the city of
Chicago, from and into other States than Illinois, amounted
to many millions of tons; that each of the roads was under
contract to carry, and in fact carrying, the mails of the United
States; that all were by statute declared post roads of the
government; that many were by special acts of Congress required at any and all times to carry the troops and military
forces of the United States, and provisions, munitions, and
general supplies therefor; and that two of them were in the
hands of receivers appointed by the courts of the United
States. It stated at some length the necessity of the continued and uninterrupted running of such interstate railroads for
the bringing into the city of Chicago supplies for its citizens
and for the carrying on of the varied industries of that city.
The bill further averred that four of the defendants, naming them, were officers of an association known as the American Railway Union ; that in the month of May, 1894, there
arose a difference or dispute between the Pullman Palace Car
Company and its employes, as the result of which a considerable portion of the latter left the service of the car company ;
that thereafter the four officers of the railway union combined
together, and with others, to compel an adjustment of such
dispute, by creating a boycott against the cars of the car company; that, to make such boycott effective, they had already
prevented certain of the railroads running out of Chicago
from operating their trains, and were combining to extend

IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

such boycott against Pullman sleeping cars by causing strikes
among employes of all railroads attempting to haul the same.
It charged knowledge on the part of the defendants of the
necessity of the use of sleeping cars in the operation of the
business of the railroads as common carriers, of the contracts
for such use between the railroad companies and the car coinpany, of the contracts, laws, and regulations binding the railway companies and the receivers to the carrying of the mails;
also of the fact that sleeping cars were and of necessity must
be carried upon the trains of said carriers with cars containing
the mails; that with this knowledge they entered into a combination and conspiracy to prevent the railroad companies and
the receivers, and each of them, from performing their duties
as common carriers of interstate commerce, and in carrying
into execution that conspiracy did induce various employ(s of
the railway companies to leave the service of the companies,
and prevent such companies and the receivers from securing
other persons to take their places; that they issued orders,
notifications, etc., to the members of the railway union to
leave the service of the companies and receivers, and to prevent the companies and receivers from operating their trains ;
that they had asserted that they could and would tie up, paralyze, and break down any and every of said railway companies and receivers which did not accede to their demands;
that in pursuance of the instructions, commands, and requests
of said officers large numbers of the employ6s of the railway
companies and receivers left their service.
Then followed these allegations:
"And your orator further charges that said defendants
aimed and intended and do now aim and intend in and by the
said conspiracy and combination, to secure unto themselves the
entire control of the interstate, industrial and commercial business in which the population of the city of Chicago and of the
other communities along the lines of road of said railways are
engaged with each other, and to restrain any and all other
persons from any independent control or management of such
interstate, industrial or commercial enterprises save according
to the will and with the consent of the defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"Your orator further avers that in pursuance of said combination and conspiracy and to accomplish the purpose thereof
as hereinbefore set forth, the said defendants Debs, Howard,
Rogers, Keliher and others, officers of said American Railway
Union, issued or caused to be issued the orders and directions as above set forth, and that in obedience of such orders
and in pursuance of said conspiracy and combination, numerous employ~s of said railroad companies and receivers unitedly
refused to obey the orders of said employers or to perform the
usual duties of such service, and many others of such employgs
quit such service with the common purpose, and with the
result of preventing said railroad companies and receivers
from operating their said railroads and from transporting the
United States mails, and from carrying on or conducting their
duties as common carriers of interstate traffic.
"Your orator further avers that, pursuant to said combination and conspiracy, and tnder the direction as aforesaid
of said officers and directors of said American Railway Union,
said other defendants and other persons whose names are to
your orator unknown, proceeded by collecting together in
large numbers, by threats, intimidation, force and violence at
the station grounds, yards and right of way of said railroad
companies, respectively, in the State of Illinois, to prevent said
railroad companies from employing other persons to fill the
vacancies aforesaid; to compel others still employes of said
railroad companies to quit such employment and to refuse to
perform the duties of their service, and to prevent the persons
remaining in such service and ready and willing to perform
the duties of the same, from doing so.
"Your orator further avers that said defendants, in pursuance of said combination and conspiracy, acting under the
direction of said officers and directors of said American Railway Union, did With force and violence at dives times and
places within said State of Illinois and elsewhere, stop, obstruct and derail and wreck the engines and trains of said
railroad companies, both passenger and freight, then and there
engaged in interstate commerce and in transporting United
States mails, by locking the switches of the railroad of said

IN

IRE DEBS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

railroad companies, by removing the spikes and rails from the
track thereof, by turning switches and displacing and destroying signals, by assaulting and interfering with and disabling
the switchmen and other employgs of said railroad companies
having charge of the signals, switches and tracks of said
companies, and the movement of trains thereon, and in other
manners by force and violence, depriving the employ6s of said
railroad companies in charge of such trains of the control and
management of the same, and by these and other unlawful
means attempted to obtain and exercise absolute control and
domination over the entire operations of said railroads."
The bill further set forth that there had become established
in the city of Chicago a business conducted under the name
of the Union Stock Yards, at which for many years immense
numbers of live stock from States and Territories beyond the
State of Illinois had been received, slaughtered, and converted
into food products, and distributed to all quarters of the glo'be,
and that all the large centres of population in the United
States were in a great degree dependent upon those stock
yards for their food supply of that character; that for the
purpose of handling such live stock and the product thereof
the company conducting such business operated certain railroad tracks, and that in pursuance of the combination and
conspiracy aforesaid the foui defendants, officers of the railway union, issued-orders directing all the employ~s handling
such railroad tracks to abandon such service.
To this was added the following:
"And your orator further alleges that in pursuance of the
like combination and unlawful conspiracy, the said defendants
and others combining and conspiring with them for the purpose of still further restraining and preventing the conduct of
such business, have by menaces, threats and intimidation prevented the employment of other persons to take the place of
the employ6s quitting the service of said company so operating said Union Stock Yards.
"And your orator further charges that by reason of said
unlawful combination and conspiracy and the acts and doings
aforesaid thereunder, the supply of coal and fuel for consumnp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

tion throughout the different States of the Union and of grain,
breadstuffs, vegetables, fruits, meats and other necessaries of
life, has been cut off, interrupted and interfered with, and the
market therefor made largely unavailable, and dealers in all
of said various products and the consumers thereof have been
greatly injured, and trade and commerce therein among the
States has been restrained, obstructed and largely destroyed."
The bill alleged that the defendants threatened and declared that they would continue to restrain, obstruct, and interfere with interstate commerce, as above set forth, and that
they "will if necessary to carry out the said unlawful combination and conspiracy above set forth tie up and paralyze
the operations of every railway in the United States, and the
business and industries dependent thereon." Following these
allegations was a prayer for an injunction. The bill was
verified.
On presentation of it to the court an injunction was ordered
commanding the defendants "and all persons combining and
conspiring with them, and all other persons whomsoever, absolutely to desist and refrain from in any way or manner interfering with, hindering, obstructing or stopping any of the
business of any of the following named railroads," (specifically naming the various roads named in the bill,) "as common carriers of passengers and freight between or among any
States of the United States, and from in any way or manner
interfering with, hindering, obstructing or stopping any mail
trains, express trains or other trains, whether freight or passenger, engaged in interstate commerce, or carrying passengers or freight between or among the States; and from in
any manner interfering with, hindering or stopping any trains
carrying the mail; and from in any manner interfering with,
hindering, obstructing or stopping any engines, cars or rolling
stock of any of said companies engaged in interstate commerce, or in connection with the carriage of passengers or
freight between or among the States; and from in any manner interfering with, injuring or destroying any of the property of any of said railroads engaged in or for the purpose of,
or in connection with, interstate commerce or the carriage of

IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

the mails of the United States or the transportation of passengers or freight between or among the States; and from
entering upon the grounds or premises of any of said railroads
for the purpose of interfering with, hindering, obstructing, or
stopping any of said mail trains, passenger or freight trains
engaged in interstate commerce, or in the transportation of
passengers or freight between or among the States, or for the
purpose of interfering with, injuring, or destroying any of
said property so engaged in or used in connection with
interstate commerce or the transportation of passengers or
property between or among the States; and from injuring or
destroying any part of the tracks, roadbed, or road, or permanent structures of said railroads; and from injuring, destroying, or in any way interfering with any of the signals
or switches of any of said railroads; and from displacing or
extinguishing any of the signals of any of said railroads, and
from spiking, locking, or in any manner fastening any of the
switches of any of said railroads, and from uncoupling or in
any way hampering or obstructing the control by any of said
railroads of any of the cars, engines, or parts of trains of any
of said railroads engaged in interstate commerce or in the
transportation of passengers or freight between or among
the States, or engaged in carrying any of the mails of the
United States; and from compelling or inducing or attempting to compel or induce, by threats, intimidation, persuasion,
force, or violence, any of the employ~s of any of said railroads
to refuse or fail to perform any of their duties as employ~s of
any of said railroads in connection with the interstate business
or commerce of such railroads or the carriage of the United
States mail by such railroads, or the transportation of passengers or property between or among the States; and from
compelling or inducing or attempting to compel or induce by
threats, intimidation, force, or violence any of the employ~s
of any said railroads who are employed by such railroads, and
engaged in its service in the conduct of interstate business or
in the operation of any of its trains carrying the mail of the
United States, or doing interstate business, or the transportation of passengers and freight between and among the States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

to leave the service of such railroads; and from preventing
any person whatever, by threats, intimidation, force, or violence from entering the service of any of said railroads and
doing the work thereof, in the carrying of the mails of the
United States, or the transportation of passengers and freight
between or among the States; and from doing any act whatever in furtherance of any conspiracy or combination to restrain either of said railroad companies or receivers in the
free and unhindered control and handling of interstate commerce over the lines of said railroads, and of transportation of
persons and freight between and among the States; and from
ordering, directing, aiding, assisting, or abetting in any manner whatever, any person or persons to commit any or either
of the acts aforesaid.
" And it is further ordered that the aforesaid injunction
and writ of injunction shall 'be in force and binding upon
such of said defendants as are named in said bill from and
after the service upon them severally of said writ by delivering to them severally a copy of said writ or by reading
the same to them and the service upon them respectively of
the writ of subpona herein, and shall be binding upon said
defendants, whose names are alleged to be unknown, from
and after the service of such writ upon them respectively
by the reading of the same to them or by the publication
thereof by posting or printing, and after service of subpena
upon any of said defendants named herein shall be binding
upon said defendants and upon all other persons whatsoever
who are not named herein from and after the time when
they shall severally have knowledge of the entry of such
order and the existence of said injunction."
This injunction was served upon the defendants-at least
upon those who are here as petitioners. On July 17 the
district attorney filed in the office of the clerk of said court
an information for an attachment against the four defendants, officers of the railway union, and on August I a similar
information against the other petitioners. A hearing was
had before the Circuit Court, and on December 14 these
petitioners were found guilty of contempt, and sentenced to

IN iRE DEBS, Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioners.

imprisonment in the county jail for terms varying from three
to six months. 64 Fed. Rep. 724. Having been committed
to jail in pursuance of this order they, on January 14, 1895,
applied to this court for a writ of error and also one of habeas
corpus. The former was, on January 17, denied, on the ground
that the order of the Circuit Court was not a final judgment
or decree. The latter is now to be considered.
Mr. Lyman Trunbull for petitioners.
I. The extraordinary proceeding under which the prisoners
were deprived of liberty, was commenced by the filing of a
bill in equity in the name of the United States, by a district
attorney, under the direction of the Attorney General. The
bill is unsigned by any one, and has attached to it an affidavit
of George Q. Allen, an unknown person, having no connection, so far as the record shows, with the case, stating that
he has read the bill, and "believes the statements therein
contained are true." The bill was filed July 2. The same
day an injunction was issued, without notice to anybody,
against the prisoners and unknown persons, and the next
day was served on some of the prisoners. The bill states
that twenty-two railroads and railroad companies, and among
them the Union Stock Yard and Transit Company, were
chartered and organized for the purpose of continuously
doing the business of common carriers of passengers and
freight generally, and were doing such business among different States. So far from having such power as alleged, the
Union Stock Yard and Transit Company, one of the roads
named, was organized for the purpose of locating and conducting stock yards and connecting them by rail with railroads entering Chicago on the south side, and transporting
between said cattle yards, "cattle and live stock and persons
accompanying the same," and by the 11th section of its
charter it is declared: " N othin g in this act contained shall
be taken or construed as conferring upon the company hereby
created any power or authority to maintain or operate a railroad for the conveyance of passengers or freight within the
city of Chicago."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Petitioners.

A large part of the bill is devoted to a statement of the
amount of business done at the Union Stock Yards, the quitting of work by the employ6s of the company, the handling
of live stock and its conversion into food, etc.
The bill states that the prisoners are officers and members
of an organization known as the American Railway Union;
that in May, 1894, a dispute arose between the Pullman
Palace Car Company and its employes which resulted in
the employ(s leaving the service of the company; that the
prisoners, officers of the American Railway Union combining
together, and with others unknown, with the purpose to compel an adjustment of the said difference and dispute between
said Pullman Co. and its employgs, caused it to be given out
through the newspapers of Chicago, generally, that the American Railway Union would at once create a boycott against
the cars manufactured by said Pullman Palace Co., and that
in order to make said boycott effective, the members of the
American Railway Union who were some of them employed
as trainmen or switchmen, or otherwise, in the service of the
railroads mentioned, which railroads or some of them are
accustomed to haul the sleeping cars manufactured by the
Pullman Palace Car Co., would be directed to refuse to perform their usual duties for said railroad companies and receivers in case said railroad companies thereafter attempted to
haul Pullman sleeping cars.
Such is the gist of the bill. All that is subsequently alleged
as to what was done by the prisoners, was for the purpose of
compelling an adjustment of the difference between the Pullman Company and its employgs. To accomplish this, the
American Railway Union called upon its members to quit
work for the companies which had persisted in hauling the
Pullman cars. Was there anything unlawful in this ? If not,
then the prisoners and the members of the American Railway
Union were engaged in no unlawful combination or conspiracy. The allegation that the prisoners, officers and directors
of the American Railway Union did issue and promulgate certain orders and requests to the members of the union in the
service of certain railway companies in pursuance of said

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioners.

unlawful purpose or conspiracy, did not make the purpose
unlawful, when the facts stated in the bill show that the purpose was not unlawful. All that the prisoners are charged
with threatening to do, or having done, was for the purpose,
primarily, of bringing about an adjustment of the differences
between the Pullman Company and its employ6s. It is only
incidentally in pursuit of this lawful purpose that prisoners
are charged with obstructing commerce.
The boycott of the Pullman sleepers was, as the bill shows,
not to obstruct commerce, but for an entirely different purpose.
It was not unlawful for the American Railway Union to
call off the members of the organization, although it might
incidentally affect the operation of the railroads. Refusing
to work for a railroad company is no crime, and though such
action may incidentally delay the mails or interfere with
interstate commerce, it being a lawful act, and not done for
that purpose, is no offence.
II. In the proceeding now before the court the main question is whether the bill states a case over which a court of
equity has jurisdiction; if not, then the injunction was void
and the prisoners are entitled to their discharge.
This court has often said that equity jurisdiction of the
Federal courts is such as was exercised by the high court of
chancery of England at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, or has been conferred upon them by Congress. Mills
v. Co/n, 150 U. S. 202.
This is not a bill by the owner of property to prevent an
irreparable injury. The government does not own the railroads. It is a bill by the government to prevent interference
with the private property of the citizen, lest such interference
restrain commerce among the States.
It was said by this court, (License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 470,)
alluding to the internal commerce or domestic trade of the
States: "Over this commerce Congress has no power of regulation, nor any direct control. This power belongs exclusively
to the States. No interference by Congress with the business
of citizens transacted within a State is warranted by the Constitution, except such as is strictly incidental to the exercise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Petitioners.

powers clearly granted to the legislature." Genesee Cief, 12
How. 443, 452; Veazie v. Moor, 14 How. 568.
The chancery court of England entertained no such jurisdiction when the Constitution was adopted.
If the prisoners were guilty of an offence against the United
States by any acts which interfered with the transportation
of the mails, the laws provide for their punishment; but
equity has no jurisdiction to grant an injunction to stay proceedings in a criminal matter. "If they did," said Chief
Justice Holt, "the court of Queen's Bench would break
it, and protect any that would proceed in contempt of it."
Accordingly, in the case of Lord Mfontague v. Dudmaln, Lord
Hardwicke allowed a demurrer to a bill for an injunction to
stay proceedings on a mandamus issued to compel the lord of
a manor to hold a court. "The court," he said, "has no
jurisdiction to grant an injunction to stay proceedings on a
mandamus, or on an indictment, or an information, or a writ
of prohibition." 3 Perkins' ed. Daniell's Ch. Pr. 1721.
III. It is not in the power of Congress to confer upon a
court of equity jurisdiction unless of an equitable nature,
which jurisdiction over crimes is not. The Constitution recognizes and confers upon the judicial department jurisdiction in
certain cases in law and equity, and provides that trial of all
crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury, and
in common law cases preserves the right of trial by jury.
It is not competent for Congress to break down this distinction between law and equity by conferring upon courts of
equity, jurisdiction of criminal and common law cases and
thereby deny parties the right to a jury trial.
The act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful
restraints and monopolies does not apply to the case stated in
the bill. If it does, then it is unconstitutional. If a court of
equity is authorized to restrain and prevent persons from the
commission of crimes or misdemeanors prohibited by law, it
must have the power to enforce its restraining order. In this
case some of the parties are sentenced to imprisonment for
six months, and for what ? For doing some of the things forbidden by a criminal statute. If they have done none of the

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

things forbidden, they have not violated the injunction, for
it could only restrain them from doing what the law forbade.
It follows that by indirection a court of equity under its
assumed jurisdiction to issue injunctions and punish for contempts, is made to execute a criminal statute and deprive persons of their liberty without a jury trial. This a court of
equity has no power to do, nor is it competent for Congress to
confer such a power on a court of equity.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for the United
States.
ir. X S. Gregory for the petitioners.
Mr. Edwin Walker for the United States.
Mr. Attorney General for the United States.
Mr. C. S. Darrow for the petitioners.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The case presented by the bill is this: The United States,
finding that the interstate transportation of persons and property, as well as the carriage of the mails, is forcibly obstructed,
and that a combination and conspiracy exists to subject the
control of such transportation to the will of the conspirators,
applied to one of their courts, sitting as a court of equity, for
an injunction to restrain such obstruction and prevent carrying
into effect such conspiracy. Two questions of importance are
presented: First. Are the relations of the general government
to interstate commerce and the transportation of the mails such
as authorize a direct interference to prevent a forcible obstruction thereof? Second. If authority exists, as authority in governmental affairs implies both power and duty, has a court of
equity jurisdiction to issue an injunction in aid of the performance of such duty.
VOL. CLvIn-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

First. What are the relations of the general government
to interstate commerce and the transportation of the mails?
They are those of direct supervision, control, and management.
While under the dual system which prevails with us the powers
of government are distributed between the State and the Nation, and while the latter is properly styled a government of
enumerated powers, yet within the limits of such enumeration
it has all the attributes of sovereignty, and, in the exercise of
those enumerated powers, acts directly upon the citizen, and
not through the intermediate agency of the State.
"The government of the Union, then, is, emphatically and
truly, a government of the people. In form and in substance
it emanates from them. Its powers are granted by them, and
are to be exercised directly on them, and for their benefit."
" No trace is to be found in the Constitution of an intention
to create a dependence of the government of the Union on
those of the States, for the execution of the great powers
assigned to it. Its means are adequate to its ends; and on
those means alone was it expected to rely for the accomplishment of its ends. To impose on it the necessity of resorting to
means which it cannot control, which another government may
furnish or withhold, would render its course precarious, the result of its measures uncertain, and create a dependence on other
governments, which might disappoint its most important designs, and is incompatible with the language of the Constitution." Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 405, 424.
"Both the States and the United States existed before the
Constitution. The people, through that instrument, established a more perfect union by substituting a national government, acting, with ample power, directly upon the citizens,
instead of the confederate government, which acted with
powers, greatly restricted, only upon the States." Chief Justice Chase in Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76.
"We hold it to be an incontrovertible principle, that the
government of the United States may, by means of physical
force, exercised through its official agents, execute on every
foot of American soil the powers and functions that belong to

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

it. This necessarily involves the power to command obedience
to its laws, and hence the power to keep the peace to that
extent.
"This power to enforce its laws and to execute its functions
in all places does not derogate from the power of the State to
execute its laws at the same time and in the same places. The
one does not exclude the other, except where both cannot be
executed at the same time. In that case, the words of the
Constitution itself show which is to yield. ' This Constitution,
and all laws which shall be made in pursuance thereof,
shall be the supreme law of the land.' " Mr. Justice Bradley
in Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 395. See also, Sehooner
Exchange v. McFaddon, 7 Cranch, 116, 136; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 413; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457,
555; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S.257; The Clinese eclusion Case, 130 U. S.581 ; _7%
re Neagle, 135 U. S.1 ; Logan v,
United States, 144 U. S. 263; T_(ong Yve Ting v. United
States, 149 U. S.698; In re Quarles, ante, 532.
Among the powers expressly given to the national government are the control of interstate commerce and the creation and management of a post office system for the
nation. Article I, section 8, of the Constitution provides that
"the Congress shall have power. .'
Third, to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
and with the Indian tribes. . . . Seventh, to establish
post offices and post roads."
Congress has exercised the power granted in respect to
interstate commerce in a variety of legislative acts. Passing
by for the present all that legislation in respect to commerce
by water, and considering only that which bears upon railroad interstate transportation, (for this is the specific matter
involved in this case,) these acts may be noticed : First, that
of June 15, 1866, c. 124, 14 Stat. 66, carried into the Revised
Statutes as section 5258, which provides :
"Whereas the Constitution of the United States confers
upon Congress, in express terms, the power to regulate commerce among the several States, to establish post roads, and
to raise and support armies: Therefore, Be it enacted by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court,

Senate and louse of Piepresentatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That every railroad company
in the United States whose road is operated by steam, its
successors and assigns, be, and is hereby, authorized to carry
upon and over its road, boats, bridges, and ferries all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight, and property
on their way from any State to another State, and to receive
compensation therefor, and to connect with roads of other
States so as to form continuous lines for the transportation
of the same to the place of destination."
Second. That of March 3, 1873, c. 252, 17 Stat. 584, (Rev.
Stat. ยงg 4386 to 4389,) which regulates the transportation of
live stock over interstate railroads. Third. That of May 29,
1884, c. 60, ยง 6, 23 Stat. 31, 32, prohibiting interstate transportation by railroads of live stock affected with any contagious
or infectious disease. Fourth. That of February 4, 1887, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379, with its amendments of March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25
Stat. 855, and February 10, 1891, c. 128, 26 Stat. 743, known
as the "interstate commerce act," by which a commission was
created with large powers of regulation and control of interstate commerce by railroads, and the sixteenth section of
which act gives to the courts of the United States power
to enforce the orders of the commission.
Fifth. That of
October 1, 1888, c. 1063, 25 Stat. 501, providing for arbitration between railroad interstate companies and their employbs;
and, sixth, the act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531,
requiring the use of automatic couplers on interstate trains,
and empowering the Interstate Commerce Commission to
enforce its provisions.
Under the power vested in Congress to establish post offices
and post roads, Congress has, by a mass of legislation, established the great post office system of the country, with all its
detail of organization, its machinery for the transaction of
business, defining what shall be carried and what not, and the
prices of carriage, and also prescribing penalties for all offences
against it.
Obviously these powers given to the national government
over interstate commerce and in respect to the transportation

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

of the mails were not dormant and unused. Congress had
taken hold of these two matters, and by various and specific
acts had assumed and exercised the powers given to it, and
was in the full discharge of its duty to regulate interstate commerce and carry the mails. The validity of such exercise and
the exclusiveness of its control had been again and again presented to this court for consideration. It is curious to note
the fact that in a large proportion of the cases in respect to
interstate commerce brought to this court the question presented was of the validity of state legislation in its bearings
upon interstate commerce, and the uniform course of decision
has been to declare that it is not within the competency of a
State to legislate in such a manner as to obstruct interstate
commerce. If a State with its recognized powers of sovereignty is impotent to obstruct interstate commerce, can it be
that any mere voluntary association of individuals within the
limits of that State has a power which the State itself does
not possess ?
As, under the Constitution, power over interstate commerce
and the transportation of the mails is vested in the national
government, and Congress by virtue of such grant has assumed actual and direct control, it follows that the national
government may prevent any unlawful and forcible interference therewith. But how shall this be accomplished? Doubtless, it is within the competency of Congress to prescribe by
legislation that any interference with these matters shall be
offences against the United States, and prosecuted and punished
by indictment in the proper courts. But is that the only
remedy? Have the vast interests of the nation in interstate
commerce, and in the transportation of the mails, no other
protection than lies in the possible punishment of those who
interfere with it? To ask the question is to answer it. By
article 3, section 2, clause 3, of the Federal Constitution it is
provided : " The trial of all crimes except in cases of impeachment shall be by jury; and such trial shall be held in the State
where the said crime shall have been committed." If all the
inhabitants of a State, or even a great body of them, should
,combine to obstruct interstate commerce or the transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the mails, prosecutions for such offences had in such a community would be doomed in advance to failure. And if the
certainty of such failure was known, and the national government had no other way to enforce -the freedom of interstate
commerce and the transportation of the mails than by prosecution and punishment for interference therewith, the whole
interests of the nation in these respects would be at the absolute mercy of a portion of the inhabitants of that single State.
But there is no such impotency in the national government.
The entire strength of the nation may be used to enforce in
any part of the land the full and free exercise of all national
powers and the security of all rights entrusted by the Constitution to its care. The strong arm of the national government may be put forth to brush away all obstructions to time
freedom of interstate commerce or the transportation of the
mails. If the emergency arises, the army of the Nation, and
all its militia, are at the service of the Nation to compel obedience to its laws.
But passing to the second question, is there no other alternative than the use of force on the part of the executive
authorities whenever obstructions arise to the freedom of interstate commerce or the transportation of the mails ? Is the
army the only instrument by which rights of the public can
be enforced and the peace of the nation preserved ? Grant
that any public nuisance may be forcibly abated either at the
instance of the authorities, or by any individual suffering private damage therefrom, the existence of this right of forcible
abatement is not inconsistent with nor does it destroy the
right of appeal in an orderly way to the courts for a judicial
determination, and an exercise of their powers by writ of injunction and otherwise to accomplish the same result. In
Stamford v. Stamford Horse Railroad Co., 56 Connecticut,
381, an injunction was asked by the borough to restrain the
company from laying down its track in a street of the borough.
The right of the borough to forcibly remove the track was
insisted upon as a ground for questioning the jurisdiction of
a, court of equity, but the court sustained the injunction, adding: " And none the less so because of its right to remove

IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

the track by force. As a rule, injunctions are denied to those
who have adequate remedy at law. Where the choice is
between the ordinary and the extraordinary processes of law,
and the former are sufficient, the rule will not permit the use
of the latter. In some cases of nuisance and in some cases of
trespass the law permits an individual to abate the one and
prevent the other by force, because such permission is necessary
to the complete protection of property and person. When
the choice is between redress or prevention of injury by force
and by peaceful process, the law is well pleased if the individual will consent to waive his right to the use of force and
await its action. Therefore, as between force and the extraordinary writ of injunction, the rule will permit the latter."
So, in the case before us, the right to use force does not
exclude the right of appeal to the courts for a judicial determination and for the exercise of all their powers of prevention.
Indeed, it is more to the praise than to the blame of the
government, that, instead of determining for itself questions
of right and wrong on the part of these petitioners and their
associates and enforcing that determination by the club of
the policeman and the bayonet of the soldier, it submitted all
those questions to the peaceful determination of judicial tribunals, and invoked their consideration and judgment as to the
measure of its rights and powers and the correlative obligations
of those against whom it made complaint. And it is equally
to the credit of the latter that the judgment of those tribunals
was by the great body of them respected, and the troubles
which threatened so much disaster terminated.
Neither can it be doubted that the government has such an
interest in the subject-matter as enables it to appear as party
plaintiff in this suit. It is said that equity only interferes for
the protection of property, and that the government has no
property interest. A sufficient reply is that the United States
have a property in the mails, the protection of which was one
of the purposes of this bill. Searight v. Sto1es, 3 How. 151,
169, arose upon a compact between the United States and the
State of Pennsylvania in respect to the Cumberland Road,
which provided, among other things, "that no toll shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

received or collected for the passage of any wagon or carriage
laden with the property of the United States;" the question
being whether a carriage employed in transporting the mails
of the United States was one "laden with the property of the
United States," and it was held that it was, the court, by
Chief Justice Taney, saying: "The United States have unquestionably a property in the mails. They are not mere
common carriers, but a government, performing a high official
duty in holding and guarding its own property as well as that
of its citizens committed to its care; for a very large portion
of the letters and packages conveyed on this road, especially
during the session of Congress, consists of communications to
or from the officers of the executive departments, or members
of the legislature, on public service, or in relation to matters
of public concern. . . . We think that a carriage, whenever it is carrying the mail, is laden with the property of the
United States within the true meaning of the compact."
We do not care to place our decision upon this ground alone.
Every government, entrusted, by the very terms of its being,
with powers and duties to be exercised and discharged for the
general welfare, has a right to apply to its own courts for any
proper assistance in the exercise of the one and the discharge
of the other, and it is no sufficient answer to its appeal to one
of those courts that it has no pecuniary interest in the matter.
The obligations which it is under to promote the interest of
all, and to prevent the wrongdoing of one resulting in injury
to the general welfare, is often of itself sufficient to give it a
standing in court. This proposition in some of its relations
has heretofore received the sanction of this court. In United
States v. San Jacinto Tin C0., 125 U. S. 273, 285, was presented
an application of the United States to cancel and annul a
patent for land on the ground that it was obtained by fraud
or mistake. The right of the United States to maintain such
a suit was affirmed, though it was held that if the controversy
was really one only between individuals in respect to their
claims to property the government ought not to be permitted
to interfere, the court saying : "If it be a question of property
a case must be made in which the court can afford a remedy in

IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.

585

Opinion of the Court.

regard to that property; if it be a question of fraud which would
render the instrument void, the fraud must operate to the prejudice of the United States; and if it is apparent that the suit
is brought for the benefit of some third party, and that the
United States has no pecuniary interest in the remedy sought,
and is under no obligation to the party who will be benefited
to sustain an action for his use; in short, if there does not appear
any obligation on the part of the United States to the public or
to any individual, or any interest of its own, it can no more
sustain such an action than any private person could under similar circumstances."
This language was relied upon in the subsequent case of
United States v. Bell Telephone Company, 128 U. S. 315, 367,
which was a suit brought by the United States to set aside a
patent for an invention on the ground that it had been obtained
by fraud or mistake, and it was claimed that the United States,
having no pecuniary interest in the subject-matter of the suit,
could not be heard to question the validity of the patent. But
this contention was overruled, the court saying, in response to
this argument, after quoting the foregoing language from the
San Jacinto case: "This language is construed by counsel for the
appellee in this case to limit the relief granted at the instance
of the United States to cases in which it has a direct pecuniary
interest. But it is not susceptible of such construction. It
was evidently in the mind of the court that the case before it
was one where the property right to the land in controversy
was the matter of importance, but it was careful to say that
the cases in which the instrumentality of the court cannot
thus be used are those where the United States has no pecuniary interest in the remedy sought, and is also under no obligation to the party who will be benefited to sustain an action for
his use, and also where it does not appear that any obligation
existed on the part of the United States to the public or to
any individual. The essence of the right of the United States
to interfere in the present case is its obligation to protect the
public from the monopoly of the patent which was procured
by fraud, and it would be difficult to find language more aptly
used to include this in the class of cases which are not excluded

,OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

from the jurisdiction of the court by want of interest in the
government of the United States."
It is obvious from these decisions that while it is not the
province of the government to interfere in any more matter of
private controversy between individuals, or to use its great
powers to enforce the rights of one against another, yet, whenever the wrongs complained of are such as affect the public at
largoe, and are in respect of matters which by the Constitution
are entrusted to the care of the Nation, and concerning which
the Nation owes the duty to all the citizens of securing to them
their common rights, then the mere fact that the government
has no pecuniary interest in the controversy is not sufficient to
exclude it from the courts, or prevent it from taking measures
therein to fully discharge those constitutional duties.
The national government, given by the Constitution power
to regulate interstate commerce, has by express statute assumed jurisdiction over such commerce when carried upon
railroads. It is charged, therefore, with the duty of keeping
those highways of interstate commerce free from obstruction,
for it has always been recognized as one of the powers and
duties of a government to remove obstructions from the highways under its control.
As said in Gilmcan v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 724: "The
power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that
purpose, and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable waters
of the United States which are accessible from a State other
than those in which they lie. For this purpose they are the
public property of the nation, and subject to all the requisite
legislation by Congress. This necessarily includes the power
to keep them open and free from any obstruction to their navigation, interposed by the States or otherwise; to remove such
obstructions when they exist; and to provide, by such sanctions as they may deem proper, against the occurrence of the
evil and for the punishment of offenders. For these purposes,
Congress possesses all the powers which existed in the States
before the adoption of the national Constitution, and which
have always existed in the Parliament in England."
See also the following authorities in which at the instance of

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

the State, or of some municipality thereof within whose limits
the obstructed highway existed, a like power was asserted:
Stamford v. Stamford Horse Railroad Co., 56 Connecticut,
381; People v. Vanderbilt, 28 N. Y. 396; State v. Dayton &
Southeastern Railroad,36 Ohio St. 434; Springfield v. Connecticut River Railroad, 4 Cush. 63; Attorney General v.
Woods, 108 Mass. 436; Easton and Amboy Railroad Co. v.
Greenwich, 25 N. J. Eq. 565; Stearns County v. St. Cloud,
ifankato and A ustin; Railroad, 36 Minnesota, 425; Rio
Grande Railroad Co. v. Brownsville, 45 Texas, 88 ; Philadelphia v. 13th & 15th Street Passenger Railway Co., 8
Phil. 648. Indeed, the obstruction of a highway is a public
nuisance, 4 Bl. Corn. 167, * and a public nuisance has always
been held subject to abatement at the instance of the government. Attorney General v. Tudor Ice Co., 104 Mass. 239, 244
Attorney General v. Jamaica Pond Aqueduct Corporation,133
Mass. 361; Village of Pine City v. Munch, 42 Minnesota,
342; State v. Goodnight, 70 Texas, 682.
It may not be amiss to notice a few of the leading cases.
City of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91, 98,
was a bill filed by the plaintiff to restrain the construction of
an aqueduct across the Potomac River. While under the
facts of that case the relief prayed for was denied, yet, the
jurisdiction of the court was sustained. After referring to
the right to maintain an action at law for damages, it was
said :
"Besides this remedy at law, it is now settled, that a court
of equity may take jurisdiction in cases of public nuisance, by
an information filed by the Attorney General. This jurisdiction seems to have been acted on with great caution and hesitancy. . . . Yet the jurisdiction has been finally sustained,
upon the principle that equity can give more adequate and
complete relief than can be obtained at law. Whilst, therefore, it is admitted by all that it is confessedly one of delicacy,
and accordingly the instances of its exercise are rare, yet it
may be exercised in those cases in which there is imminent
danger of irreparable mischief before the tardiness of the law
could reach it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

State of Pensylvaniav. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 I-low. 518,
was a bill filed by the State of Pennsylvania to enjoin the
erection of a bridge over the Ohio River within the limits of
the State of Virginia. As the alleged obstruction was not
within the State of Pennsylvania, its right to relief was only
that of an individual in case of a private nuisance, and it was
said, on page 564:
"The injury makes the obstruction a private nuisance to
the injured party; and the doctrine of nuisance applies to the
case where the jurisdiction is made out, the same as in a public
prosecution. If the obstruction be unlawful, and the injury
irreparable by a suit at common law, the injured party may
claim the extraordinary protection of a court of chancery.
"Such a proceeding is as common and as free from difficulty
as an ordinary injunction bill, against a proceeding at law, or
to stay waste or trespass. The powers of a court of chancery
are as well adapted, and as effectual for relief in the case of a
private nuisance, as in either of the cases named. And, in
regard to the exercise of these powers, it is of no importance
whether the eastern channel, over which the bridge is thrown,
is wholly within the limits of the State of Virginia. The Ohio
being a navigable stream, subject to the commercial power of
Congress, and over which that power has been exerted, if the
river be within the State of Virginia, the commerce upon it,
which extends to other States, is not within its jurisdiction;
consequently, if the act of Virginia authorized the structure
of the bridge, so as to obstruct navigation, it could afford no
justification to the bridge company."
Coosaw Mining Co. v. South Carolina,144 U. S. 550, was a
bill filed by the State in one of its own courts to enjoin the
digging, mining, and removing phosphate rock and deposits in
the bed of a navigable river within its territories. The case
was removed by the defendant to the Federal court, and in
that court the relief prayed for was granted. The decree of
the Circuit Court was sustained by this court, and in the opinion by Mr. Justice Tarlan, the matter of equity jurisdiction
is discussed at some length, and several cases cited, among
them Attorney General v. Rlichards, 2 Anstr. 603; Attorney

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

General v. Forbes, 2 My. & Cr. 123; Gibson v. Smithk, 2 Atk.
182; Attorney General v. Jamaica Pond Aqueduct Coiporation, 133 Mass. 361. From Attorney General v. Forbes was
quoted this declaration of the Lord Chancellor: "Many cases
might have been produced in which the court has interfered
to prevent nuisances to public rivers and to public harbors;
and the Court of Exchequer, as well as this court, acting as a
court of equity, has a well established jurisdiction, upon a proceeding by way of information, to prevent nuisances to public
harbors and public roads; and, in short, generally to prevent
public nuisances." And from Attorney General v. Jamaica
Pond Aqueduct these words of the Supreme Court of the
State of Massachusetts: "There is another ground upon
which, in our opinion, this information can be maintained,
though perhaps it belongs to the same general head of equity
jurisdiction of restraining and preventing nuisances. The
great ponds of the Commonwealth belong to the public, and,
like the tide waters and navigable streams, are under the control and care of the Commonwealth. The rights of fishing,
boating, bathing, and other like rights which pertain to the
public are regarded as valuable rights, entitled to the protection of the government.

.

.

.

If a corporation or an indi-

vidual is found to be doing acts without right, the necessary
effect of which is to destroy or impair these rights and privileges, it furnishes a proper case for an information by the
Attorney General to restrain and prevent the mischief." An
additional case, not noticed in that opinion, may also be referred to, Attorney General v. Terry, L. R. 9 Ch. 423, in
which an injunction was granted against extending a wharf a
few feet out into the navigable part of a river, Mellish, L. J.,
saying: "If this is an indictable nuisance there must be a
remedy in the Court of Chancery, and that remedy is by
injunction," and James, L. J., adding: "I entirely concur.
Where a public body is entrusted with the duty of being conservators of a river, it is their duty to take proceedings for the
protection of those who use the river."
It is said that the jurisdiction heretofore exercised by the
national government over highways has been in respect to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

waterways- the natural highways of the country- and not
over artificial highways such as railroads; but the occasion
for the exercise by Congress of its jurisdiction over the latter
is of recent date. Perhaps the first act in the course of such
legislation is that heretofore referred to, of June 14, 1866, but
the basis upon which rests its jurisdiction over artificial highways is the same as that which supports it over the natural
highways. Both spring from the power to regulate commerce. The national government has no separate dominion
over a river within the limits of a State; its jurisdiction there
is like that over land within the same State. Its control over
the river is simply by virtue of the fact that it is one of the
highways of interstate and international commerce. The great
case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 197, in which the control of Congress over inland waters was asserted, rested that
control on the grant of the power to regulate commerce.
The argument of the Chief Justice was that commerce includes navigation, "and a power to regulate navigation is as
expressly granted as if that term had been added to the word
'commerce.'"
In order to fully regulate commerce with
foreign nations it is essential that the power of Congress does
not stop at the borders of the nation, and equally so as to
commerce among the States:
"The power of Congress, then, comprehends navigation
within the limits of every State in the Union, so far as that
navigation may be, in any manner, connected with 'commerce
with foreign nations, or among the several States, or with the
Indian tribes.' It may, of consequence, pass the jurisdictional
line of New York, and act upon the very waters to which the
prohibition now under consideration applies."
See also Gilman v. -Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 725, in which
it was said: "Wherever 'commerce among the States' goes,
the power of the nation, as represented in this court, goes
with it to protect and enforce its rights."
Up to a recent date commerce, both interstate and international, was mainly by water, and it is not strange that both
the legislation of Congress and the cases in the courts have
been principally concerned therewith. The fact that in recent

IN RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

years interstate commerce has come mainly to be carried on by
railroads and over artificial highways has in no manner narrowed the scope of the constitutional provision, or abridged the
power of Congress over such commerce. On the contrary,
the same fulness of control exists in the one case as in the
other, and the same power to remove obstructions from the
one as from the other.
Constitutional provisions do not hange, but their operation
extends to new matters as the modes of business and the
habits of life of the people vary with each succeeding generation. The law of the common carrier is the same to-day as
when transportation on land was by coach and wagon, and on
water by canal boat and sailing vessel, yet in its actual operation it touches and regulates transportation by modes then
unknown, the railroad train and the steamship. Just so is it
with the grant to the national government; of power, over interstate commerce. The Constitution has not changed. The
power is the same. But it operates to-day upon modes of
interstate commerce unknown to the fathers, and it will operate with equal force upon any new modes of such commerce
which the future may develop.
It is said that seldom have the courts assumed jurisdiction
to restrain by injunction in suits brought by the government,
either state or national, obstructions to highways, either
artificial or natural. This is undoubtedly true, but the reason is that the necessity for such interference has only been
occasional. Ordinarily the local authorities have taken full
control over the matter, and by indictment for misdemeanor,
or in some kindred way, have secured the removal of the obstruction and the cessation of the nuisance. As said in Attorney Generalv. Brown, 24 N. J. Eq. (9 C,E. Green) 89, 91: "The
jurisdiction of courts of equity to redress the grievance of
public nuisances by injunction is undoubted and clearly established; but it is well settled that, as a general rule, equity will
not interfere, where the object sought can be as well attained
in the ordinary tribunals. Attorney General v. New Jersey
Railroad, 2 C. E. Green, (17 N. J. Eq.,) 136; Jersey City v.
City of Hudson, 2 Beasley, (13 N. J. Eq.,) 420, 426; Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

General v. Heishon, 3 C. E. Green, (18 N. J. Eq.,) 410; Mor?r'is & Essex Railroad v. Prudden, 5 C. E. Green, (20 N. J.
Eq.,) 530, 532; High on Injunctions, ยง 521. And because
the remedy by indictment is so efficacious, courts of equity
entertain jurisdiction in such cases with great reluctance,
whether their intervention is invoked at the instance of the
attorney general, or of a private individual who suffers some
injury therefrom distinct from that of the public, and they
will only do so where there appears to be a necessity for their
interference. Rowe v. The Granite Bridge oporation, 21
Pick. 340, 347; Morris & Essex Railroad v. Prudden,supra.
The jurisdiction of the court of chancery with regard to public nuisances is founded on the irreparable damage to individuals, or the great public injury which is likely to ensue.
3 Daniell's Ch. Pr. 3d ed. Perkins's, 1740." Indeed, it may be
affirmed that in no well-considered case has the power of a
court of equity to interfere by injunction in cases of public
nuisance been denied, the only denial ever being that of a
necessity for the exercise of that jurisdiction under the circumstances of the particular case. Story's Eq. Jur. ยงยง 921,
923, 924; Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. ยง 1349; High on Injunctions,
ยงยง 745 and 1554; 2 Daniell's Ch. P1. and Pr. 4th ed. p. 1636.
That the bill filed in this case alleged special facts calling
for the exercise of all the powers of the court is not open to
question. The picture drawn in it of the vast interests involved, not merely of the city of Chicago and the State of
Illinois, but of all the States, and the general confusion into
which the interstate commerce of the country was thrown;
the forcible interference with that commerce; the attempted
exercise by individuals of powers belonging only to government, and the threatened continuance of such invasions of
public right, presented a condition of affairs which called for
the fullest exercise of all the powers of the courts. If ever
there was a special exigency, one which demanded that the
court should do all that courts can do, it was disclosed by this
bill, and we need not turn to the public history of the day,
which only reaffirms with clearest emphasis all its allegations.
The difference between a public nuisance and a private nui-

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

sance is that the one affects the people at large and the other
simply the individual. The quality of the wrong is the same,
and the jurisdiction of the courts over them rests upon the
same principles and goes to the same extent. Of course, circumstances may exist in one case, which do not in another, to
induce the court to interfere or to refuse to interfere by injunction, but the jurisdiction, the power to interfere, exists in
all cases of nuisance. True, many more suits are brought by
individuals than by the public to enjoin nuisances, but there
are two reasons for this. First, the instances are more numerous of private than of public nuisances; and, second, often
that which is in fact a public nuisance is restrained at the suit
of a private individual, whose right to relief arises because of
a special injury resulting therefrom.
Again, it is objected that it is outside of the jurisdiction of
a court of equity to enjoin the commission of crimes. This,
as a general proposition, is unquestioned. A chancellor has
no criminal jurisdiction. Something more than the theatened
commission of an offence against the laws of the land is necessary to call into exercise the injunctive powers of the court.
There must be some interferences, actual or threatened, with
property or rights of a pecuniary nature, but when such interferences appear the jurisdiction of a court of equity arises, and
is not destroyed by the fact that they are accompanied by or
are themselves violations of the criminal law. Thus, in Oranford v. Tyrrell, 128 N. Y. 341, an injunction to restrain the
defendant from keeping a house of ill-fame was sustained, the
court saying, on page 344: "That the perpetrator of the nuisance is amenable to the provisions and penalties of the
criminal law is not an answer to an action against him by a
private person to recover for injury sustained, and for an injunction against the continued use of his premises in such a
manner." And in Mobile v. Lou;sville & Nashville Railroad,
84 Alabama, 115, 126, is a similar declaration in these words:
"The mere fact that an act is criminal does not divest the
jurisdiction of equity to prevent it by injunction, if it be also
a violation of property rights, and the party aggrieved has no
other adequate reinedy for the prevention of the irreparable
VOL. CLvII-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

injury which will result from the failure or inability of a court
of law to redress such rights."
The law is full of instances in which the same act may give
rise to a civil action and a criminal prosecution. An assault
with intent to kill may be punished criminally, under an indictment therefor, or will support a civil action for damages,
and the same is true of all other offences which cause injury
to person or property. In such cases the jurisdiction of the
civil court is invoked, not to enforce the criminal law and
punish the wrongdoer, but to compensate the injured party
for the damages which he or his property has suffered, and it
is no defence to the civil action that the same act by the defendant exposes him also to indictment and punishment in a
court of criminal jurisdiction. So here, the acts of the defendants may or may not have been violations of the criminal
law. If they were, that matter is for inquiry in other proceedings. The complaint made against them in this is of
disobedience to an order of a civil court, made for the protection of property and the security of rights. If any criminal
prosecution be brought against them for the criminal offences
alleged in the bill of complaint, of derailing and wrecking
engines and trains, assaulting and disabling employds of the
railroad companies, it will be no defence to such prosecution
that they disobeyed the orders of injunction served upon them
and have been punished for such disobedience.
Nor is there in this any invasion of .the constitutional right
of trial by jury. We fully agree with counsel that "it matters
not what form the attempt to deny constitutional right may
take. It is vain and ineffectual, and must be so declared by
the courts," and we reaffirm the declaration made for the court
by Mr. Justice Bradley in -Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616, 635, that "it is the duty of courts to be watchful for the
constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any stealthy
encroachments thereon. Their motto should be obstaprincipiis." But the power of a court to make an order carries with
it the equal power to punish for a disobedience of that order,
and the inquiry as to the question of disobedience has been,
from time immemorial, the special function of the court. And

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner,
Opinion of the Court.

this is no technical rule. In order that a-court may compel
obedience to its orders it must have the right to inquire
whether there has been any disobedience thereof. To submit
the question of disobedience to another tribunal, be it a jury
or another court, would operate to deprive the proceeding of
half its efficiency. In the Case of Yates, 4 Johns. 314, 369,
Chancellor Kent, then Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, said : "In the Case qf Tlie Earl of
Shiaftesbury, 2 St. Trials, 615; S. 6C 1 Mod. 141, who was imprisoned by the House of Lords for 'high contempts committed against it,' and brought into the King's Bench, the
court held that they had no authority to judge of the contempt, and remanded the prisoner. The court, in that case,
seem to have laid down a principle from which they never
have departed, and which is essential to the due administration
of justice. This principle that every court, at least of the
superior kind, in which great confidence is placed, must be the
sole judge, in the last resort, of contempts arising therein, is
more explicitly defined and more emphatically enforced in the
two subsequent cases of the Queen, v. Paty and otlers, and of
the King v. Crosby." And again, on page 371, " Mr. Justice
Blackstone pursued the same train of, observation, and declared that all courts, by which he meant to include the two
houses of Parliament, and the courts of Westminster Hall,
could have no control in matters of contempt. That the sole
adjudication of contempts, and the punishments thereof belonged exclusively, and without interfering, to each respective
court." In Watson v. Willians, 36 Mississippi, 331, 341, it was
said: "The power to fine and imprison for contempt, from the
earliest history of jurisprudence, has been regarded as a necessary incident and attribute of a court, without which it could
no more exist than without a judge. It is a power inherent
in all courts of record, and coexisting with them by the wise
provisions of the common law. A court without the power
effectually to protect itself against the assaults of the lawless,
or to enforce its orders, judgments, or decrees against the recusant parties before it, would be a disgrace to the legislation,
and a stigma upon the age which invented it." In Cart-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

qvriglit's Case, 114 MAass. 230, 238, we find this language: "The
summary power to commit and punish for contempts tending
to obstruct or degrade the administration of justice is inherent
in courts of chancery and other superior courts, as essential to
the execution of their powers and to the maintenance of their
authority, and is part of the law of the land, within the meaning
of Magna Charta and of the twelfth article of our Declaration
of Rights." See also United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32;
Anderson v. _Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204; Ex _parte Robinson, 19
Wall. 505; Mugler v. K[ansas, 123 U. S. 623, 672; Epx arte
Terry, 128 U. S. 289; Aiilenbeeker v. Plymouth County, 134
U. S. 31, 36, in which Mr. Justice Miller observed: "If it has
ever been understood that proceedings according to the common law for contempt of court have been subject to the right
of trial by jury, we have been unable to find any instance of
it;" Interstate Comneree ( o%?fiigsion v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
447, 488. In this last case it was said "surely it cannot be
supposed that the question of contempt of the authority of a
court of the United States, committed by a disobedience of its
orders, is triable, of right, by a jury."
In brief, a court, enforcing obedience to its orders by proceedings for contempt, is not executing the criminal laws of
the land, but only securing to suitors the rights which it has
adjudged them entitled to.
Further, it is said by counsel in their brief:
"No case can be cited where such a bill in behalf of the
sovereign has been entertained against riot and mob violence,
though occurring on the highway. It is not such fitful and
temporary obstruction that constitutes a nuisance. The strong
hand of executive power is required to deal with such lawless
demonstrations.
"The courts should stand aloof from them and not invade
executive prerogative, nor even at the behest or request of
the executive travel out of the beaten path of well-settled
judicial authority. A mob cannot be suppressed by injunction; nor can its leaders be tried, convicted, and sentenced in
equity.
"It is too great a strain upon the judicial branch of the

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

government to impose this essentially executive and military
power upon courts of chancery."
We do not perceive that this argument questions the jurisdiction of the court, but only the expediency of the action of
the government in applying for its process. It surely cannot
be seriously contended that the court has jurisdiction to enjoin
the obstruction of a highway by one person, but that its jurisdiction ceases when the obstruction is by a hundred persons.
It may be true, as suggested, that in the excitement of passion
a mob will pay little heed to processes issued from the courts,
and it may be, as said by counsel in argument, that it would
savor somewhat of the puerile and ridiculous to have read
a writ of injunction to Lee's army during the late civil war.
It is doubtless true that inter arma leges silent, and in the
throes of rebellion or revolution the processes of civil courts
are of little avail, for the power of the courts rests on the
general support of the people and their recognition of the fact
that peaceful remedies are the true resort for the correction of
wrongs. But does not counsel's argument imply too much?
Is it to be assumed that these defendants were conducting
a rebellion or inaugurating a revolution, and that they and
their associates were thus placing themselves beyond the
reach of the civil process of the courts? We find in the
opinion of the Circuit Court a quotation from the testimony
given by one of the defendants before the United States
Strike Commission, which is sufficient answer to this suggestion :
"As soon as the employds found that we were arrested,
and taken from the scene of action, they became demoralized,
and that ended the strike. It was not the soldiers that ended
the strike. It was not the old brotherhoods that ended the
strike. It was simply the United States courts that ended
the strike. Our men were in a position that never would
have been shaken, under any circumstances, if we bad been
permitted to remain upon the field among them. Once we
were taken from the scene of action, and restrained from
sending telegrams or issuing orders or answering questions,
then the minions of the corporations would be put to work.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

. . . Our headquarters were temporarily demoralized and
abandoned, and we could not answer any messages. The men
went back to work, and the ranks were broken, and the strike
was broken up, . . . not by the army, and not by any
other power, but simply and solely by the action of the
'United States courts in restraining us from discharging our
duties as officers and representatives of our ernploy6s."
Whatever any single individual may have thought or
planned, the great body of those who were engaged in these
transactions contemplated neither rebellion nor revolution, and
when in the due order of legal proceedings the question of
right and wrong was submitted to the courts, and by them
decided, they unhesitatingly yielded to their decisions. The
outcome, by the very testimony of the defendants, attests the
wisdom of the course pursued by the government, and that
it was well not to oppose force simply by force, but to invoke
the jurisdiction and judgment of those tribunals to whom by
the Constitution and in accordance with the settled conviction
of all citizens is committed the determination of questions of
right and wrong between individuals, masses, and States.
It must be borne in mind that this bill was not simply to
enjoin a mob and mob violence. It was not a bill to command
a keeping of the peace ; much less was its purport to restrain
the defendants from abandoning whatever employment they
were engaged in. The right of any laborer, or any number
of laborers, to quit work was not challenged. The scope and
purpose of the bill was only to restrain forcible obstructions
of the highways along which interstate commerce travels
and the mails are carried. And the facts set forth at length
are only those facts which tended to show that the defendants
were engaged in such obstructions.
A most earnest and eloquent appeal was made to us in
eulogy of the heroic spirit of those who threw up their
employment, and gave up their means of earning a livelihood,
not in defence of their own rights, but in sympathy for and
to assist others whom they believed to be wronged. We
yield to none in our admiration of any act of heroism or selfsacrifice, but we may be permitted to add that it is a lesson

IN

RE DEBS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

which cannot be learnea too soon or too thoroughly that
under this government of and by the people the means of
redress of all wrongs are through the courts and at the ballotbox, and that no wrong, real or fancied, carries with it legal
warrant to invite as a means of redress the cooperation of
a mob, with its accompanying acts of violence.
We have given to this case the most careful and anxious
attention, for we realize that it touches closely questions of
supreme importance to the people of this country. Summing
up our conclusions, we hold that the government of the
United States is one having jurisdiction over every foot of
soil within its territory, and acting directly upon each citizen;
that while it is a government of enumerated powers, it has
within the limits of those powers all the attributes of sovereignty; that to it is committed power over interstate coinmerce and the transmission of the mail; that the powers
thus conferred upon the national government are not dormant,
but have been assumed and put into practical exercise by the
legislation of Congress; that in the exercise of those powers
it is competent for the nation to remove all obstructions upon
highways, natural or artificial, to the passage of interstate
commerce or the carrying of the mail; that while it may be
competent for the government (through the executive branch
and in the use of the entire executive power of the nation)
to forcibly remove all such obstructions, it is equally within
its competency to appeal to the civil courts for an inquiry
and determination as to the existence and character of any
alleged obstructions, and if such are found to exist, or
threaten to occur, to invoke the powers of those courts to
remove or restrain such obstructions; that the jurisdiction of
courts to interfere in such matters by injunction is one recognized from ancient times and by indubitable authority; that
such jurisdiction is not ousted by the fact that the obstructions
are accompanied by or consist of acts in themselves violations
of the criminal law; that the proceeding by injunction is of a
civil character, and may be enforced by proceedings in contempt; that such proceedings are not in execution of the
criminal laws of the land; that the penalty for a violation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

injunction is no substitute for and no defence to a prosecution
for any criminal offences committed in the course of such
violation; that the complaint filed in this case clearly showed
an existing obstruction of artificial highways for the passage
of interstate commerce and the transmission of the mail an obstruction not only temporarily existing, but threatening
to continue ; that under such complaint the Circuit Court had
power to issue its process of injunction; that it having been
issued and served on these defendants, the Circuit Court had
authority to inquire whether its orders had been disobeyed,
and when it found that they had been, then to proceed under
section 725, Revised Statutes, which grants power " to punish,
by fine or imprisonment, . . . disobedience, . . . by
any party . . . or other person, to any lawful writ,
process, order, rule, decree or command," and enter the order
of punishment complained of; and, finally, that, the Circuit
Court, having full jurisdiction in the premises, its finding of
the fact of disobedience is not open to review on habeas cortus
in this or any other court. Ex parte ITfatlins, 3 Pet. 193;
Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Ex parte Terry, 128
U. S. 289, 305 ; 14 re Swan, 150 U. S. 637; United States v.
Piridgeon, 153 U. S. 48.
We enter into no examination of the act of July 2, 1890,
c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, upon which the Circuit Court relied
mainly to sustain its jurisdiction. It must not be understood
from this that we dissent from the conclusions of that court
in reference to the scope of the act, but simply that we prefer
to rest our judgment on the broader ground which has been
discussed in this opinion, believing it of importance that the
principles underlying it should be fully stated and affirmed.
The petition for a writ of habeas corpus is
Denied.

