THE BEACONSFIELD.
Syllabus.

that character. It might as well be claimed that the man who
first introduced an elevator into a private house, it having been
previously used in public buildings, was entitled to a patent
for a new combination.
Not a new function or result is suggested by the combination in question. The cars run into the building on railway
tracks, as they have done ever since railways were invented.
The building is fixed and stationary, as buildings usually are.
It is no novelty that it should contain an elevating device,
and that the latter should raise the grain to the hopper scale,
and should discharge it either into a bin or a vessel, or into
another car. In principle it makes no difference which.
In fact, the combination claimed is a pure aggregation, and
the decree of the court dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Atdfrmed.

THE BEACONSFIELD. 1
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
1o 948.

Submitted April 22, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1896.

The carrier is so far the representative of the owner, that he may sue in his
own name, either at common law or in admiralty, for a trespass upon or
injury to the property carried.
If a cargo be damaged by collision between two vessels, the owner may
pursue both vessels, or either, or the owners of both, or either; and in
case he proceeds against one only, and both are held in fault, he may
recover his entire damages of the one sued.
A person who has suffered injury by the joint action of two or more wrongdoers, may have his remedy against all or either, subject to the condition
that satisfaction once obtained is a bar to further proceedings.
If the owner of a vessel, libellant on his own behalf and on behalf of the
owner of the cargo, takes no appeal from a decree dismissing the libel as
to his own vessel, the owner of the cargo may be substituted as libellant
in his place, and the failure of the owner of the vessel to appeal is a
technical defence which ought not to prejudice the owner of the cargo.
'The docket title of this case is Elizabeth Cleugh, Claimant of the Steamship Beaconsfied, and William Libbey, Surety, v. Albert W. Sanbern.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
Stipulations in admiralty are not subject to the rigid rules of the common
law with respect to the liability of the surety; and so long as the cause
of action remains practically the same, a mere change iu the name of the
libellant, as by substituting the real party in interest for a nominal party,
will not avoid the stipulation as against the sureties.

Tuis case, which is an outgrowth of that of The -Britannia,
153 U. S. 130, arose upon a certificate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals touching the liability of the Beaconsfield to respond
for a moiety of the loss upon her cargo, by reason of her
collision with the Britannia. The questions certified are
based upon the finding of facts printed in the margin, 1
1 STATEMENT

OF

FACTS.

1. On December 21, 1886, John Lucas Cotton, master, and George Cleugh,
owner of the Beaconsfield, as bailees of her cargo, filed an amended libel
against the Britannia in the District Court for the Southern District of
New York, to recover the sum of $45,000, damage to such cargo by reason
of her collision with the Britannia, for which the latter was charged to
have been solely in fault.
2. On January 7, 1887, the Compagnie Franqaise de Navigation AVapeur,
owner of the Britannia, answered this libel, claiming the collision to have
been caused solely by the fault of the Beaconsfield.
3. On the same day it also filed a petition against the Beaconsfield,
reciting the former proceedings, averring the collision to have been caused
wholly or partly by the fault of the Beaconsfield, that she ought to be
proceeded against in the same suit for the damage to her cargo, and
prayed for process against her to the end that she might be condemned
for such damage.
4. The Beaconsfield was arrested under process issued upon this petition, and was released from custody upon her claimant, Cleugh, filing a
stipulation for value in the sum of $23,000, with William Libbey and
George C. Magoun as sureties.
5. Subsequently George Cleugh, owner of the Beaconsfield, answered
this petition, denying the liability of the Beaconsfleld, and excepting to
the jurisdiction of the court to enforce any liability against her, by reason
of the proceedings taken under this petition. John Lucas Cotton and
George Cleugh, as libellants, also answered this petition, denying liability
on the part of the Beaconsfield.
6. The case came on to be tried in the District Court upon these pleadings, and also upon cross libels by the owners of the Britannia and Beaconsfield, against each vessel respectively, for damages sustained by the
vessels themselves. The District Court found both vessels to have been
in fault, and divided the damages. The case is reported in 34 Fed. Rep.
546.

THE BEACONSFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon this state of facts, the Court of Appeals certified to
this court, for its decision, the following questions:
7. A final decree was entered in the District Court July 9, 1889, in
favor of Cotton and Cleugh, libellants, against the steamship Britannia
and the steamship Beaconsfield in the sum of $50,249.26, and condemning
each vessel in a moiety of said sum, amounting to $25,124.63.
8. Cross appeals from this decree were taken to the Circuit Court by
George Cleugh, claimant of the Beaconsfield, and the Compagnie Franaise,
claimant of the Britannia.
9. Pending these appeals, and on October 3, 1890, Elizabeth Cleugh
was substituted as claimant of the Beaconsfield, in place of George Cleugh,
deceased, and the libel of John Lucas Cotton and George Cleugh against
the Britannia was continued in the name of Cotton alone.
10. Upon hearing in the Circuit Court upon the cross-appeals, the
decree of the District Court was reversed, and the Britannia found to
have been solely in fault for the collision. 42 Fed. Rep. 67 ; 43 Id. 96. A
decree was thereupon entered in favor of Cotton, as bailee of the cargo
of wheat laden on the Beaconsfield, against the Britannia in the sum of
$53,907.11.
11. From this decree the Compagnie Fran~aise appealed to the Supreme
Court October 8, 1890. John Lucas Cotton, libellant, did not appeal from
the decree of the Circuit Court.
12. The appeal of the Compagnie Franaise came on to be heard in the
Supreme Court with the appeals of the Britannia from the decree dismissing her libel against the Beaconsfield, for damage sustained by the vessel
itself, and from the decree sustaining the libel of the Beaconsfield against
her for like damage sustained in the collision.
13. In the Supreme Court both vessels were found to have been in fault,
and a mandate issued directing the decree of the Circuit Court to be reversed,
and the cause to be remanded, with directions to enter a decree in accordance
with the opinion of such court, and for further proceedings in conformity, etc.
14. Upon the further proceedings so ordered, an affidavit was filed showing that a telegram had been received from the owners of the Beaconsfield
as follows: "You must not consent to any decree in our names, except
against Britannia for half damages. We only agreed to be libellants as
bailees of cargo against Britannia; we forbid our names being used in any
decree against Beacousfield for loss of cargo. Please do needful to give
effect to this. (Signed) Cleugh, Cotton." A like telegram was addressed
by libellant Cotton to his own counsel.
15. Libellant then moved, June 1, 1894, that the libel be amended by substituting the name of Albert W. Sanbern, owner of the cargo of the Beaconsfield, as sole libellant in the place of John Lucas Cotton, and for the entry
of a final decree in the name of Sanbern. This motion was opposed by
Elizabeth Cleugh, claimant of the Beaconsfield, and by the sureties, but was
granted by order of June 4, 1894, and on the same day, a decree was entered
VOL. CLvII-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

1. Whether, in entering said final decree, condemning each
vessel in a moiety of said damages, the Circuit Court obeyed
the mandate of the Supreme Court.
2. Whether, upon the above statement of facts, the libellant,
Albert W. Sanbern, was entitled to a final decree condemning
the steamship Beaconsfield, her engines, tackle, apparel, and
furniture, in a moiety of the cargo damage, amounting to
$31,526.64-, as adjudged in the said final decree.
3. Whether, upon the above statement of facts, the libellant,
Albert W. Sanbern, was entitled to judgment against William
Libbey, surety, in the sum of $23,000, as directed by the
said order of June 12, 1894, and as adjudged in the said judgin favor of Sanbern, as owner of the cairgo, against the Britannia and
Beaconsfield for the sum of $63,053.28, and condemning each vessel for onehalf of this amount, namely, $31,526.64. By this decree, the stipulators on
the part of both steamships were ordered to show cause why execution
should not issue against them for the amount of their stipulations.
16. The sureties upon the stipulation of the Beaconsfield made return to
the order to show cause, alleging the filing of the libel by Cotton, master,
and Cleugh, owner of the Beaconsfield, as bailees of the cargo; that there
was no allegation of fault on the part of the Beaconsfield in this libel, or in
their answer to the petition of the Compagnie Fran~aise; that the question
of liability between the Beaconsfield and the libellants was never actually
litigated, and the bills of lading under which the goods were carried had
never been interposed by way of defence; that at the time the stipulation
was given, Cotton and Cleugh were the parties libellant, and continued to
be such until after the final decree in the District Court, when the libel was
amended by dropping the name of George Cleugh, who had died, and continuing it in the name of Cotton alone, although Elizabeth Cleugh, as administratrix of the co-libellant, was substituted in George Cleugh's place as
claimant; that after the mandate was handed down, the libel was again
amended, by substituting the name of Sanbern, as owner of the cargo, in
place of Cotton, one of the bailees. By reason of these matters, Libbey,
the surviving surety, claimed to be exonerated from his liability on the
stipulation of value of January 10, 1887. An order was, however, entered
directing judgment and execution against Libbey, in the amount of his stipulation, $23,000, and judgment was accordingly entered against him.
17. Thereupon Elizabeth Cleugh, claimant of the Beaconsfield, appealed
from the decree against the steamer, and William Libbey, surety, appealed
from the judgment against him, to the Court of Appeals, each assigning
separate errors, and bringing up the matters aforesaid for review by such
court. Meantime the decree against the Britannia for a moiety of the damages had been paid.

THE BEACONSFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

ment entered pursuant to the said order, and filed June 12,
1894.
.Mr. J. Parker Jrfirlin for appellants.
.Mr.
William G. Choate and Mr.Sidney Chubb for appellee.
MR. JUSTIWE

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Stripped of its complication of libels and cross libels, this
case is by no means difficult to understand. The Beaconsfield
having been sunk in a collision with the Britannia, her master and owner, as bailees of her cargo, proceeded against the
Britannia for damages done to such cargo. This they had a
right to do. It is perfectly well settled that the carrier is so
far the representative of the owner that he may sue in his
own name, either at common law or in admiralty, for a
trespass upon or injury to the property carried. If a cargo
be damaged by collision between two vessels, the owner may
pursue both vessels, or either, or the owner of both or either;
and in case he proceed against one only, and both are held in
fault, he may recover his entire damages of the one sued. A
person, who has suffered injury by the joint action of two or
more wrongdoers, may have his remedy against all or either,
subject, however, to the condition that satisfaction once
obtained is a bar to any further proceeding. lhe Atlas,
93 U. S. 302, 315; Lovejoy v. Murray, 3 Wall. 1. Did
the case rest here, there could be no doubt of the right of the
libellant to recover the whole damage to the cargo of the
Britannia, although, as owner of the Beaconsfield herself,
Cleugh could recover only a moiety of his damage to the
vessel, in case the collision were adjudged to be the mutual
fault of both vessels.
By general admiralty rule 59, however, it is provided that
"in a suit for damage by collision, if the claimant of any
vessel proceeded against . . . shall, by petition, on oath,
showing fault or negligence in any other vessel con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tributing to the same collision, and the particulars thereof,
and that such other vessel, or any other party, ought to be
proceeded against in the same suit for such damage, pray that
process be issued against such vessel or party to that end,
such process may be issued, and, if duly served, such suit shall
proceed as if such vessel or party had been originally proceeded
against."
Pursuant to this rule, the French company, owner of the
Britannia, filed its petition, alleging fault on the part of the
Beaconsfield, and praying that she might be proceeded against
in the same suit for such damage. This was done, and the
litigation resulted in a decree of the District Court dividing
the damages. A moiety of the decree was really against
the libellants, as owner and master of the Beaconsfield, or
rather against Libbey and Magoun, sureties, upon their stipulation.
Both parties appealed to the Circuit Court, which reversed
the decree of the District Court, and adjudged the Britannia
to be solely in fault. The owner of the Britannia appealed,
but Cotton, master of the Beaconsfield, who in the meantime
had become sole libellant, did not appeal from the decree dismissing his libel against his own vessel, for the obvious reason
that his position as libellant of his own vessel for damage to
her cargo was forced upon him by the act of the French
company, and conflicted with his interest as representing the
owner of the Beaconsfield. In this court, the decree of the
Circuit Court was reversed, and the case remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with the opinion. This opinion
stated that the conclusion reached in this court was the same
as that arrived at in the District Court, "and accordingly, we
reverse the three decrees, and remand the causes to the Circuit
Court, with directions to enter decrees in accordance with this
opinion, that both vessels were in fault, and that the damages
should be divided." 153 U. S. 144. The result of this was
virtually a restoration of the decree of the District Court
dividing the damages and awarding to Cotton, master of
the Beaconsfield, and bailee of her cargo, a decree against the
Beaconsfield for one-half the damages.

THE BEACONSFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

In this juncture, the proctors for Elizabeth Cleugh, administratrix, (who in the meantime had become owner of the
Beaconsfield,) and Cotton, were instructed by their clients
not to consent to any decree against the Beaconsfield, upon
the ground that they, Cotton and Cleugh, had only consented
to be libellants, as bailees of the cargo, against the Britannia,
and they (the proctors) were forbidden to use their names for
any decree against the Beaconsfield. Upon libellant's motion,
Sanbern, the owner of the cargo, was then substituted as
libellant in the place of Cotton, and a final decree entered
against the Beaconsfield in the Circuit Court for a moiety of
the damages, and the sureties ordered to show cause why
execution should not issue against them.
We know of no reason why this decree should not have
been granted. Sanbern had a right to suppose that his interests as owner of the cargo would be protected by Cotton, who
was suing as his bailee. Had he sued in person, he could,
and probably would, have libelled both vessels, and ought not
to be prejudiced by the fact that Cotton, assuming to act for
him, libelled but one. When the Beaconsfield was drawn
into the litigation by the petition of the French company,
and his own vessel thus made to respond to his libel, Cotton
should have either withdrawn from the suit, and asked that
Sanbern be substituted, or in his answer to the petition of the
French company should at least have set up any defence he
might have had against the owner of the cargo, arising under
the bill of lading or from any other cause. If the attention
of the court had then been drawn to the fact that Cotton
was occupying inconsistent positions, it would doubtless have
ordered the owner of the cargo to be substituted for him as
libellant. Had no petition been filed against the Beaconsfield
by the French company, the case would have stood quite differently, as there would have been no suit against the Beacons.
field upon which a decree could have been rendered. The
failure of Cotton to call the attention of the court to the inconsistent positions occupied by him, or in answering the petition of the French company, to claim any defence arising
upon the bill of lading or otherwise, was ample authority for

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the court to enter a decree for a moiety of damages against
the Beaconsfield.
The failure of" Cotton, acting as bailee of the cargo, to
appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing his
libel as against his own vessel, is a technical defence which
ought not to prejudice the owner of the cargo. If Sanbern
had then been the libellant, and had failed to appeal from the
decree dismissing his libel as against the Beaconsfield, possibly he might be held to be estopped; but he cannot be
estopped by the failure of Cotton, who was acting in his
own interest in not appealing. In this particular the case
is much like that of ie Umbria, 11 U. S. App. 612, in
which a decree was entered in the court below in favor of
the owners of the cargo of a vessel sunk in a collision with
another vessel, which was 'there found to be solely in fault;
but on appeal by the owner of such vessel, the owners of the
cargo not appealing, both vessels were found in fault, and a
decree was entered dividing the damages. The owners of the
cargo, though not appealing, were held to be entitled to a
decree against the owner of the sunken vessel to the same
extent as though they had appealed. This case goes to the
extent of holding that, even if Sanbern himself had been the
libellant, his failure to appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court, dismissing his libel as against the Beaconsfield, would
not estop him from recovering against her, if such decree were
reversed by this court, and both vessels adjudged to be in
fault.
It is insisted, however, that the sureties on the stipulation
were released by the amendments to the libel, first, continuinz it in the name of Cotton alone after the death of Cleugh,
instead of in the name of Cotton and Cleugh, as administratrix; and again, in substituting Sanbern as owner of the
cargo instead of the original libellants. Stipulations in admiralty are not subject to the rigid rules of the common law
with respect to the liability of the surety, and so long as the
cause of action remains practically the same, a mere change
in the name of the libellant, as by substituting the real party
in interest for a nominal party, will not avoid the stipulation

THE BEACONSFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

as against the sureties ; or, as it is stated in some cases, stipulations are to be interpreted as to the extent and limitation
of responsibility created by them by the intention of the court
which required them, and not by the intention of the parties
who are bound by them. It was said by Judge Ware in Lane
v. Townsend, 1 Ware, 286, 293: "If, therefore, there is an
ambiguity in the terms of the stipulation, or the construction
of them is doubtful, it is not the intention of the party for
which we are to inquire, for the will of the party had nothing
to do in determining its conditions; the doubt must be removed by consulting the intention of the court, or the law
which required the stipulation and dictated its terms." The
introduction, however, of a new cause of action is something
which the sureties are not bound to contemplate, and it necessarily follows that they cannot be held. This was the ruling
of this court in the recent case of Tle Oregon, ante, 186, in
which, after a libel had been filed for a collision, and the
usual stipulation to answer judgment given, other libels for
damages arising from the same collision were filed without a
rearrest of the vessel, and it was held that this was a new
cause of action, and the court acquired no jurisdiction to
render a judgment against the sureties. See also Thie North
Carolina,15 Pet. 40.
The law upon this subject is nowhere better stated than in
The Nied -Elwin,1 Dodson, 50, cited and abstracted in Thie
Oregon, in which Sir William Scott held that, in a case of
prize, the substitution of the Crown for the captors did not
release the sureties, but that they could not be held for a new
cause of action, viz., the intervention of hostilities between
Great Britain and Denmark, after the stipulation was given.
In respect to the first question he says: "I cannot entirely
accede to the position which has been laid down on behalf of
the claimant, that these bonds, are mere personal securities
given to the individual captors; because, I think, they are
given to the court as securities to abide the adjudication of
all events at the time impending before it. This court is not
in the habit of considering the effect of bonds precisely in the
same limited way as they are viewed by the courts of com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

men law. In those courts they are very properly construed
as mere personal securities for the benefit of those parties to
whom they are given. In this place they are subject to more
enlarged considerations; they are here regarded as pledges
or substitutes for the thing itself, in all points fairly in the
adjudication before the court."
Even if this action had been at common law, it is not
altogether certain that the amendment, substituting the name
of the real party in interest for a nominal party, would not
be good. C/iapman v. Barney, 129 U. S. 677. The obligation of the sureties to respond for the damage done by the
Beaconsfield to her cargo was neither increased nor diminished
by a mere change in name of the party libellant.
All the questions certified are, therefore, answered in the
affirrnative.

ANDES v. ELY.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 295. Argued April 17,18, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

Lyons v. Munson, 99 U. S. 676, affirmed to the point that under c. 907 of the
laws of New York for 1869, the county judge was the officer charged by
law with the duty to decide whether municipal bonds could be legally
issued in payment of subscriptions to railroad stock, and that his judgment was conclusive till reversed by a higher court.
Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 684, affirmed to the point that such a judgment
could not be collaterally attacked.
These judgments are not affected by Craig v. Andes, 93 N. Y. 405, as that
case has since been held by the Court of Appeals of New York to have
been a collusive case, and not to stand in the way of a refxamination.
The attaching a condition to his signature by a petitioner under that statute
of New York does not necessarily -vitiate it.
One who contracts with a corporation as such cannot afterwards avoid the
obligations so assumed by him on the ground that the supposed corporation was not one dejure.
If the county judge in a notice issued by him under that act fails to specify
the place at which the hearing on the petition will be had, it will be presumed that his regular office is the place intended for it.

