OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

HARTER v. TWOHIG.
APPEAL

FROM TIE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE. UNITED

STATES

FOR

TIE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 251.

Argued and submitted April 4, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

In 1858 H. loaned to W. a sum of money, receiving from him his note payable in one year with interest. No part of the sum on the note was ever
paid, either to H. in his lifetime or to his representatives. Simultaneously with the loan H. conveyed to K. as trustee a tract of land in
Nebraska to secure the payment of the note. The remaining interest of
W. in the tract subsequently came to T. through sundry mesne conveyances. H. paid the taxes on the property from March, 1862, until his
death in 1876. Shortly before his death he gave directions to have
the trust deed foreclosed, and proceedings were taken to that end, a
judgment was obtained, the property was sold to H., and a deed made to
him accordingly. i-. verified the petition which was the foundation of
these proceedings, but the day before it was filed he died. The deed to
him after the sale was delivered to his children, who in good faith filed
the same for record and continued to pay taxes on the property, claiming to be owners. During all that time and down to 1888 neither W. nor
any one claiming under him except H. and his representatives, ever exercised any right of ownership of the land. Then T. commenced proceedings in a state court of Nebraska, which were removed into the Federal
court, to have the tax sale deed set aside and declared void, and to
redeem from that sale, and such proceedings were had that a decree was
entered allowing redemption. Held, that the doctrine of Inches was
applicable; that the claim was stale; and that no court of equity would
be justified in permitting the assertion of an outstanding equity of
redemption, after such a lapse of time, and in the entire absence of the
elements of good faith and reasonable diligence.

27, 1858, Eugene L. Wilbur entered the west half
of the northeast quarter of section 33, township 29, range 9
east, situated in Dakota County in the then Territory of Nebraska, paying therefor the sum of $1.25 per acre. On the
same day Wilbur executed and delivered a trust deed to Augustus Kountze, as trustee, conveying said land to secure to
Isaac Harter, the father of appellants, the payment of a promissory note for one hundred and forty dollars, bearing that date
FEBRUARY

and due one year thereafter, with interest at the rate of four

HIARTER v. TWOHIG.
Statement of the Case.

per cent per month after maturity. No part of the interest
or principal due upon this note was ever paid to Isaac Harter
or to appellants. On March 2, 1860, Wilbur and wife by a
quit-claim deed conveyed the eighty acres to William F.
Lockwood, and on February 6, 1861, Lockwood and his wife,
Mary A., by warranty deed, conveyed the same to James W.
Virtue for a consideration of forty dollars in money and
twenty-five dollars in property, who, on February 3, 1863, by
warranty deed conveyed an undivided one-half interest to
Mary A. Lockwood. Virtue was the witness to the trust
deed to Kountze, and it was acknowledged before him as
notary public. The record further shows that Isaac Hurter,
now deceased, paid the taxes on the property from 1862 to
the time of his death, which occurred February 27, 1876 ; that
Isaac Harter had placed the trust deed and the notes secured
thereby in the hands of his attorney to foreclose the same, and
that a petition for such foreclosure had been verified February
21, 1876, and was filed February 28, 1876, in the District Court
of Dakota County, Nebraska; that the defendants in the suit
were William F. Lockwood, Mary A. Lockwood, his wife, and
Augustus Kountze, the trustee; that they were brought in by
publication, and constructive service on them having been thus
duly obtained, a decree foreclosing the trust deed was entered
June 5, 1876, at the June term, 1876, of the court, in favor of
Isaac Harter and against William F. Lockwood, Mary A. Lockwood, and Augustus Kountze, and such proceedings were thereupon had that the property in controversy was sold by the
sheriff under the decree to Isaac Harter, August 12, 1876. It
further appeared that the amount due on the promissory note
June 5, 1876, was $1248, and that the property was appraised
at $880 before the sheriff's sale. May 10, 1877, the sale having
theretofore been approved by the court, a deed to Isaac Harter
was duly executed by the sheriff of Dakota County, Nebraska,
for the eighty acres in question, and by him delivered to the
attorney of Isaac iarter, who delivered the same to appellants, and they, not realizing that there was any irregularity
connected with the proceedings, and believing they had a
good and sufficient title to the property, filed the same on
VOL. cLvin-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

June 10, 1877, for record with the county clerk of Dakota
County, and thereafter, and until the commencement of this
cause, held themselves to be the owners thereof; paid the
taxes thereon ; offered the same for sale; had correspondence
with divers parties concerning the land, and exercised all the
rights of property and dominion over the same which was
exercised by any person from June 1, 1877, to December 21,
1888, when this action was commenced, the acts of ownership
being such that the tract was generally known in the comnmunity where it was located as "the Harter land." The land
remained of comparatively little value up to the spring of
1887, when a railroad bridge was built across the Missouri
River to Sioux City and to South Sioux City, where a town
was laid out, and it then rose rapidly in value until, at the
time of the commencement of this action, it was worth $100
to $150, and, pending this suit, $200, per acre.
In the summer of 1888, James P. Twohig was the clerk of
the District Court of Dakota County, Nebraska, when an
affidavit was filed therein by Isaac Harter, one of the appellants, for the purpose of perfecting the title to another piece
of real estate in that county, belonging to appellants, and
which they were about to sell, which affidavit showed that
Isaac Harter, the father of affiant, died February 27, 1876.
Thereafter James P. Twohig obtained a quit-claim deed from
James W. Virtue of the eighty acres for a consideration of
$350, bearing date September 3, 1888, and filed for record September 22, 1888. Twohig then wrote appellant Isaac Iarter
a letter stating that he had title to the land and demanding a
settlement, which was the first information that appellants
had of any claim whatever against their title. On December
21, 1888, Twohig filed his petition against appellants in the
District Court of Dakota County, Nebraska, which was subsequently duly removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska, praying judgment that
the decree in favor of Isaac Harter, deceased, of June 5, 1876,
and the sheriff's deed based thereon, might be set aside and
declared void, and Twohig be allowed to redeem the undivided
half of the real estate from the lien of the trust deed to

IARTER v. TWOHIG.
Opinion of the Court.

Kountze on paying to defendants the amount legally and
equitably due them. While the suit was pending and on or
about January 28, 1889, Twohig obtained a quit-claim deed
from Mary A. Lockwood and William F. Lockwood for an
undivided one-half of the land for a consideration of $50, and
on November 20, 1890, filed his supplemental petition in the
Circuit Court praying the same relief as to thewhole of the
land.
It appeared that in 1866, William F. Lockwood and his wife,
Mary A., left Dakota County, Nebraska, and never returned
to that State, and that two years before, James W. Virtue
left that county and went to Washington Territory, where he
has since resided. Neither Virtue nor Mr. or Mrs. Lockwood,
from 1864, ever exercised any rights of ownership whatever
over the land in controversy, which land had never been cultivated or fenced, and up to the year 1887 was wild land.
Appellants answered and set up the defences of the statute
of limitations; of abandonment; of title by adverse possession; and of laches. On a reference certain findings of fact
were made, which have been substantially anticipated in the
foregoing statement. Thereupon it was held by the Circuit
Court that the decree which ordered a sale of the premises in
the suit of Isaac Harter, Sr., was absolutely void; that neither
complainant nor defendants were ever in the actual possession
of the land, and the statute of limitations did not apply ; that
Virtue was not a party defendant to the foreclosure case, and
in any event his grantee ought to be permitted to redeem;
that defendants were entitled to the return of taxes paid with
interest, and payment of the indebtedness secured by the
trust deed to Kountze with interest; and a final decree was
entered allowing redemption on payment of the amount found,
from which decree both parties appealed to this court
Mr. Henry TV. -Harter,with whom was Mr. J. .i. 8wan on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. W. -. Gaqztt for appellee submitted on his brief.
MR. CHTEF JUSTIcE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

In respect'of the nature of a conveyance in mortgage at
common law, the legal title vested in the mortgagee and was
forfeited upon default, but equity established the right of
redemption after default. And, variously modified, where the
common law doctrine prevails, a mortgage is still regarded
as a conveyance in fee, although a conveyance as a security,
while in many of the States this has been changed, chiefly
by statute, so that a mortgage is regarded merely as a pledge.
The common law, so far as applicable, and not inconsistent
with the Constitution of the United States or the organic law
of the Territory, or with any law of the territorial legislature,
was adopted and declared to be law within the Territory of
Nebraska by act of March 16, 1855, Laws Nebraska, 1855, 328,
but by section 30 of an act approved February 21, 1855, (Ib.
p. 166,) it was provided that "in the absence of stipulations to
the contrary, the mortgagor of real estate retains the legal
title and right of possession thereof." Thus, irrespective of the
terms of the instrument in particular cases, instead of the mortgagee being entitled to immediate possession of the mortgaged
property as an incident of the title, the mortgagor was entitled
to possession until foreclosure. The conveyance in this case
was, however, a trust deed and not a mortgage, and by section 676 of the law of the Territory, also approved March 16,
1855, Laws Nebraska, 55, 119, it was provided: "Deeds
of trust of real or personal property may be executed as securities for the performance of contracts, and sales made in
accordance with their terms are valid. Or they may be
treated like mortgages, and foreclosed by action in the district
court." This recognized the distinction between a trust deed
and a mortgage, and while providing that a trust deed might
be treated like a mortgage and foreclosed as mortgages might
be, did not undertake to deal with the legal title which
passed by the conveyance to the trustee. The section was in
terms adopted from the Code of Iowa of 1851, (Code Iowa,
1851, c. 118, ยง 2096; Laws Nebraska, 1855, p. 55,) which Code
likewise contained the provision as to the retention of the
legal title by the mortgagor above quoted from the law of
Nebraska of February 21, 1855 (Code Iowa, 1851, ยง 1210).

HAIRTER v. TWQHIG.
Opinion of the Court.

And it has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court of
Iowa that the legal title vests in the trustee under such a
deed. Devin v. Jlenderskott, 32 Iowa, 192, 194; Newman
v. De Lorimer, 19 Iowa, 244; Tucker v. Silver, 9 Iowa, 261;
Cook v. Dillon, 9 Iowa, 407.
It is true that in Webb v. Hoselton, 4 Nebraska, 308, decided
at January term, 1876, the Supreme Court of Nebraska held
that a conveyance in the form of a deed of trust to secure the
payment of a promissory note conditioned, that in case of
failure to pay, the trustee shall sell, or, upon payment, reconvey, is in effect only a mortgage. Of course, in many particulars, the attributes of deeds of trust and mortgages with a
power of sale are the same. Both are intended as securities;
in both, if not controlled by statute, the legal title passes from
the grantor, but in equity he is, before foreclosure, considered
the actual owner; and in both the grantor has the right to
redeem. But that case did not involve the application of the
territorial act to which we have referred, and changes had
taken place in legislation during the intervening period.
The land in question was unoccupied and wild land, and
there being no adverse holding,' upon breach of condition, if
not before, the legal title which Kountze held drew to it the
possession, although in subjection to the right of redemption
in Wilbur and his grantees, so that, when this bill'was filed to
redeem from the trust deed, the question at once arose whether
there was then an equity of redemption outstanding which
complainant could assert and which a court of equity would
recognize.
Although actual possession by a mortgagee, under a claim of
ownership, continued for the time required by statute might
be requisite to convert a mortgage title into a title absolute,
yet, notwithstanding that, in a case such as this, whether or
not redemption will be accorded, depends upon the equities
between the parties.
Twenty-nine years had elasped after the breach of condition
before this bill was filed, but in the meantime the proceedings
for foreclosure complained of had been had. This was in 1876,
the sheriff's deed being given in 1877, eleven years before

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

complainant's bill was filed. It is settled law in Nebraska that a
judgment rendered against a person or in his favor is reversible
after his death if the fact and time of death appear upon the
record, or in error coramn nobis, if the facts must be shown
aliunde; the judgment is voidable and not void, and cannot be
impeached collaterally. Jennings v. Simpson, 12 Nebraska,
558; XcCormiclo v. Paddock, 20 Nebraska, 486. Here, however, the petition to foreclose was filed after the death of
Isaac Harter, and without pausing to examine the other
irregularities relied on, it is sufficient to say that we think the
foreclosure decree was void. But if the initiation of those
proceedings operated to acknowledge an outstanding right of
redemption at that time, their culmination and the deed of
the sheriff must be recognized as evidence of the assertion
of an extinguishment of such equity.
By section 6 of chapter 57 of the General Statutes of
Nebraska of 1873, (Gen. Stat. 525,) it was provided that,."An
action for the recovery of the title or possession of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, can only be brought within ten years
after the cause of such action shall have accrued. This section
shall be construed to apply also to mortgages."
In McKesson v. h:awley, 22 Nebraska, 692, a sale had taken
place under a trust deed, and grantees under the purchaser at
the trustee's sale, one Hartley, had taken and held adverse
p6ssession of the land for more than ten years prior to the
commencement of the action, which was brought to redeem
from the trust deed on the ground that the proceedings to sale
under it were invalid. The Supreme Court of Nebraska held
that the provisions of the above section applied; that an action
to redeem from a mortgage was barred in the same time an
action to foreclose would be, and could not be maintained after
ten years from the date when the right of action accrued,
which was in that case as soon as adverse possession was taken
under the alleged purchase from the trustee ; and the court
said: " But it is contended by plaintiff that the possession of
defendant and her grantors was not adverse ; that the title of
the trustee was a recognition of the plaintiff's title, and that,
as the foreclosure proceedings were void, defendants could hold

HJARTER v. TWOHIG.
Opinion of the Court.

only as assignees of the rights of the trustees, and, therefore,
not adverse. Such, to our mind, cannot be the law. Notwithstanding the fact that the foreclosure proceedings might have
been void, it is clear that the purpose of such proceedings was to
cut off and destroy the title of plaintiff ; and therefore the conveyance by the trustee to Hartley, had it been legal, would
have terminated plaintiff's title. The grantees of Hartley
taking and holding the property, or asserting their right to hold
it under warranty deeds from him, was clearly adverse to
plaintiff. They held as owners and the statute would run in
their favor."
Even if in the case in hand the possession may be regarded
as constructive merely, yet as the legal title was in the trustee
and not in Wilbur, and only a bare right to redeem could be
transferred to and by Wilbur's grantees, we hold that the same
principle by analogy applied to them and to Twohig, which
could only be overcome, if at all, by superior equities on his
part. And we do not perceive that any such equities existed.
It appears from the record that from 1867 to 1877, inclusive, the land was assessed and taxed in the name of Isaac
Harter; from 1878 to 1885, inclusive, in the name of Isaac
IHarter, Jr., one of the heirs of Isaac Harter; and from 1886
to 1889, inclusive, in the name of 11. W. Harter, another of
said heirs; that after the maturity of the trust deed, Isaac
Harter paid the annual taxes from and including those of
1861 to the day of his death, and that his heirs, the appellants,
paid the annual taxes from that time down to and including
those for 1888; that the land was treated during all this time
as belonging to Harter and his heirs, and notoriously known
as the "Harter land." It further appears that both Lockwood and Virtue knew of the outstanding trust deed, which
was indeed acknowledged before 'Virtue, and the claim of
H-arter thereunder, and that Lockwood and his wife knew
of the pendency of the foreclosure suit; that Mr. and Mrs.
Lockwood left the county and State in 1866 and Virtue in
1864, and never returned, except that Virtue paid a temporary visit there in the summer of 1888, when he conveyed to
Twohig, and that the Lockwoods and Virtue paid no atten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

tion whatever to the land nor asserted any ownership therein
after their departure. The record discloses another fact, that
when Virtue left Dakota City he placed his business affairs in
the hands of an agent, who attended thereto, and that taxes
were paid on certain lands in Dakota City as late as 1877 on
behalf of Virtue, while no attention was given to the land in
controversy. In the summer of 1888 the affidavit of Isaac
Harter, Jr., was filed in the county court, in the course of disposing of other real estate than this, to the effect that Isaac
Harter, upon his decease, had left no debts unpaid, and therefrom it also appeared that Isaac Harter died February 27,
1876, whereupon the clerk who had filed the affidavit obtained
a quitclaim from Virtue and set up this claim to the land.
The land, which was worth perhaps a hundred and twenty
dollars in 1858, had suddenly increased in value to about
twelve thousand dollars in 1888, chiefly within the year or two
preceding.
Under these circumstances we think the doctrine of laches
was applicable; that the claim was stale; and that no court
of equity would be justified in permitting the assertion of an
outstanding equity of redemption after such a lapse of time
'and in the entire absence of the elements of good faith and
reasonable diligence.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

COLVIN v. JACKSONVILLE.
iPPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 991.

Submitted May6, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

Where the jurisdiction of the court below is in issue, and the case is certified here for decision, the certificate must be granted during the term at
which the judgment or decree is entered.
IT a suit in equity to restrain the issue of bonds by a municipal corporation,

