OCTOBER

TERAM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

inquiry, and had ordered a court martial to convene to try
him. Immediately after that, and four days before the court
martial met, he was furnished with a copy of the charge and
specification on which he was to be tried. This was a sufficient compliance with the article in question. And it is, at the
least, doubtful whether the objection that it had not been
sooner delivered to him did not come too late, after be had
admitted before the court martial that he had received a copy
of the charge and specification, and after objections to the
jurisdiction of the court and to the form of the accusation
had been made and overruled, and he had pleaded not guilty,
and the evidence for the United States had been introduced.
The court martial having jurisdiction of the person accused
and of the offence charged, and having acted within the scope
of its lawful powers, its decision and sentence cannot be
reviewed or set aside by the civil courts, by writ of habeas
corpus or otherwise. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 82;
:x pare Reed, 100 U. S. 13; Ex parte Mason, 105 U. S.
696; Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167, 177-179.
Order reversed, with directions to remand Sayre to custody.

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 288. Submitted April 15, 1895. -

Decided May 6, 1S95.

Congress having appropriated in payment of a judgment against the United
States in the Court of Claims, the full amount of the judgment, with a
provision in the appropriation law that the sum thus appropriated
shall be in full satisfaction of the judgment, and the judgment debtor
having accepted that sum in payment of the judgment debt, the debtor is
estopped from claiming interest on the judgment debt under Rev. Stat.
ยง 1090.

ON May 2, 1888, the "Pacific Railroad," a corporation of
the State of Missouri, filed in the Court of Claims a petition
seeking to recover interest on certain judgments it had previ-

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

ously obtained against the United States. There was a traverse denying the allegations of the petition. Evidence was
adduced and the cause submitted to the court.
There were the following findings of facts and conclusions
of law:
" I. On the 28th of April, 1885, the claimant recovered
judgment against the defendants in the Court of Claims for
the sum of $44,800.74.
"On the 29th of April, 1885, the claimant presented to the
Secretary of the Treasury a copy of said judgment, certified
by the clerk of the Court of Claims and signed by the chief
justice. Said judgment was not paid, except as hereinafter
stated.
"II. From said judgment both parties took an appeal to
the Supreme Court, the defendants July 14, and claimant
July 15, 1885.
"The case was tried and determined by the Supreme Court,
and the following mandate was filed in the Court of Claims
February 9, 1887:
"' United States of America:
"' The President of the United States of America to the honorable the judges of the Court of Claims, greeting:
"'Whereas lately in the Court of 'Claims, before you or
some of you, in a cause between The Pacific Railroad, claimant, and The United States, defendant, No. 11,825, wherein
the judgment of the said Court of Claims, entered in said
cause on the 20th day of April, A.D. 1885, is in the followinm words: "The court on due consideration of the premises
find for the claimant and do order, adjudge, and decree that
the said Pacific Railroad do have and recover of and from the
United States the sum of forty-four thousand eight hundred
dollars and seventy-four cents ($44,800.74)," as by the inspection of the transcript of the record of the said Court of Claims
(which was brought into the Supreme Court of the United
States by virtue of an appeal taken by the United States and
a cross-appeal taken by the Pacific Railroad agreeably to the
act of Congress in such a case made and provided) fully and
at large appears ;

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"'And whereas. in the present term of October, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-six, the
same cause came .on to be heard before the said Supreme
Court, on the said transcript of record, on appeal and crossappeal, and was argued by counsel:
"'On consideration whereof it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court that the judgment of the said Court of
Claims in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed.
"'And it is further ordered that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Court of Claims with
directions to enter a judgment for the full amount claimed by
the Pacific Railroad Company for its services.'
"III. Thereupon, on February 19, 1887, the Court of
Claims entered judgment anew in favor of the claimant for
the sum of $130,196.98, according to said mandate.
"'On the 9th day of February, 1885, the claimant presented to the Secretary of the Treasury a copy of said judgment for the sum of $130,196.98, certified by the clerk of the
Court of Claims and signed by the chief justice.
"IV. The principal sum of said last-named judgmefnt has
been paid under the act of 1888, Feb'y 1, c. 4, 25 Stat. 24,
but the defendants refuse to pay any interest on either
judgment.
"Conclusion of law.
"The court upon the foregoing findings of fact decide as a
conclusion of law that the claimant is not entitled to recover
and the petition is dismissed."
Mr.James Coleman, Mr. A? T. Britton, and Mir. A. B.
Browne for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and -Mr.Samuel A.
Putnam for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SumuAs delivered the opinion of the court.
As taking them out of the general rule excluding creditors
of the government from recovering interest, the claimants

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

point to section 1090 of the Revised Statutes, which reads as
follows: "In cases where the judgment appealed from is in
favor of the claimant, and the same is affirmed by the Supreme
Court, interest thereon at the rate of five per centum shall be
allowed from the date of its presentation to the Secretary of
the Treasury for payment as aforesaid, but no interest shall be
allowed subsequent to the affirmance unless presented for
payment to the Secretary of the Treasury as aforesaid."
As the claimants themselves appealed from the first judgment of the Court of Claims, and did not appeal from the
second judgment, it is plain that they are not within the
express terms of the statute they rely on. The first judgment was not affirmed, and the second judgment was not
appealed from.
The contention that, inasmuch as the claimants brought the
judgment of the court below into the Supreme Court for
correction and there prevailed, they are within the fair meaning of the statute, is not without force; but we are relieved
from its consideration by the conduct of the claimants in
accepting payment of their judgment under the act of February
1, 1888, c. 4, 25 Stat. 4, 24, the terms of which were as follows:
"To pay the judgment of the Court of Claims in favor of
the Pacific Railroad eighty-five thousand three hundred and
ninety-six dollars and twenty-four cents, being in addition to
the sum of forty-four thousand eight hundred dollars and
seventy-four cents, appropriated by the act approved August
fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, to pay a judgment
in favor of said Pacific Railroad, which two sunms shall be in
fall satisfactionof the judgment in favor of the Pacific Railroad reported to Congress in the House Executive Document
number twenty-nine, Fiftieth Congress, first session."
In Stewart v. Barnes, 153 U. S. 456, this court held that
when a person from whom an internal revenue tax had been
illegally exacted, accepted from the government the precise
amount of the sum thus illegally exacted, he thereby gave up
his right to sue for interest as incidental damages; and the
case of Moore v. Fuller,2 Jones, (Law,) 205, was cited, wherein
the Supreme Court of North Carolina said: "The general

OCTOBER TERMT, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

principle is that when the principal subject of a claim is
extinguished by the act of the plaintiff, or of the parties, all its
incidents go with it. Thus, in an action of ejectment, if the
plaintiff, pending the suit, takes possession of the premises,
upon the plea of the defendant or upon its being shown,
the plaintiff will be nonsuited. So, in an action of detinue, if
the plaintiff takes possession of the property claimed, he
can recover no damages, for they are consequential upon the
recovery of the thing sued for. This is an action of debt on a
bond to recover the interest, the principal having been paid by
the defendant before the bringing of the action: by that payment, the bond was discharged, and by analogy to the cases
referred to, the plaintiff cannot recover the interest, which
irs but an incident to the principal - the bond."
To the same effect is the case of Tillotson v. Preston, 3 Johns.
229, which was an action of assumpsit for money had and
received. In addition to the general issue, there was a plea of
payment of the sums mentioned in the declaration. To this
plea of payment the plaintiff demurred specially, alleging for
one ground of demurrer that the plea did not allege that the
defendant had paid to the plaintiff the interest. The court
said: " The demurrer is not well taken. If the plaintiff has
accepted the principal, he cannot afterwards bring an action
for the interest."
See, likewise, the case of De Arnaud v. United States, 151
U. S. 483, where it was held that the receipt by a claimant
against the United States for a sum less than he had claimed,
paid him by the disbursing agent of a department, "in full for
the above account," is, in the absence of allegation and proof
that it was given in ignorance of its purport, or in circumnstances constituting duress, an acquittance in bar of any
further demand - citing Baker v. Naektrie, 19 How. 126,
and United States v. Childs, 12 Wall. 232.
The judgment of the court below, dismissing the plaintiff's
petition, is
iflrmned.

