OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

marizes the circumstances disclosed by the record, that the
question in relation to the physical and mental condition of
the juror and his competency to return a verdict was a question of fact, and this court upon a writ of error to the highest
court of a State in an action at law cannot review its judgment upon such a question. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658, 664, and cases cited. We are unable, therefore, to discover any ground justifying the granting of the writ applied
for. Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272; Lambert v. Barrett,
157 U. S. 697; In re Kemnder, 136 U. S. 436; Caldwell v.
Texas, 137 U. S. 692; MleAulty v. California,149 U. S. 645;
XcKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687.
Application denied.

NEWPORT

ERROR TO

NEWS AND MISSISSIPPI
COMPANY v. PACE.

TIE CIRCUIT
WESTERN
No. 223.

COURT

OF THE UNITED

VALLEY

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

Argued January 31, 1895. -Decided

April 22, 1895.

The fact that objections are made to the admission or exclusion of evidence and overruled is not sufficient, in the absence of exceptions, to
bring them before the court.
It is the duty of counsel excepting to propositions submitted to a jury, to
,except to them distinctly and severally, and where they are excepted to in
mass the exception will be overruled if any of the propositions are
correct.
There is nothing in this case to take it out of the operation of these wellsettled rules.

Tins was an action for damages instituted by Pace, a citizen of Tennessee, against the Newport News and Mississippi
Valley Company and the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern
Railroad Compan5, in the circuit court of Dyer County,
Tennessee, and subsequently removed into the Circuit Court
of the Inited States for the eastern division of the Western
District of Tennessee by the Newport News and Mississippi

NEWPORT NEWS & MISS. VALLEY CO. v. PACE.

37

Opinion of the Court.

Valley Company, under the fourth paragraph of section 2 of
the act of August 13, 1888, (25 Stat. 433, c. 866) on the
ground of prejudice or local influence.
Soon after the
removal the case was discontinued as to the Chesapeake,
Ohio and Southwestern Railroad Company. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of Pace, whereupon a writ of error was brought.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts for plaintiff in error. Mr. tholmes
Cummnins was with him on the brief.
.. ]tamilton Parks for defendant in error. )J[P. henry

W

ilfoCorry was with him on the brief.

MR.CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Errors are assigned to the admission of evidence "against
defendant's objection," and "notwithstanding objection by
the defendant," but the bill of exceptions does not show any
exception taken to the overruling of these objections. It is
also claimed that in a particular instance evidence offered by
defendant was improperly excluded, "on plaintiff's objection,"
but no exception to the action of the court appears to have
been preserved.
The questions sought to be raised cannot, therefore, be considered, as the settled rule is, as stated by Mr. Chief Justice
Taney in United States v. -Breitling,20 How. 252, 254, that
the fact that objections are made and overruled is not sufficient,
in the absence of exceptions, to bring them before the court.
Errors are also assigned to parts of the charge, and here,
again, it was long ago determined that it is the duty of counsel excepting to propositions submitted to a jury to except to
them distinctly and severally, and that where they are excepted to in mass the exception will be overruled, provided any
of the propositions be correct; Rogers v. Die Marshal, 1 Wall.
644; h7arvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328; Block v. Darling,140 U. S.
234, 238; Jones v. East Tennessee &c. Railroad,157 U. S.684;

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

while a general exception taken to the refusal of a series of
instructions will not be considered if any one of the propositions be unsound. Bogk v. Gas8sert, 149 U. S. 17, 26, and
cases cited.
Pace was a cattle drover and dealer in live stock. September 19, 1890, he shipped at Obion, Tennessee, a station on the
line of the Newport News and Mississippi Valley Company,
a carload of cattle to be carried to Louisville, Kentucky. He
entered into a contract with the company to pay it forty dollars as the cost of the transportation of the stock, which
included his own carriage on the train to attend and care for
the cattle. The following night, while the train was passing
over the road, it became uncoupled, and the rear end, where
Pace was in the caboose, stopped, while the engine and forward cars ran ahead. Evidence was given tending to show
that at the time the train broke in two, Pace was warned by
the conductor and the brakeman of the danger of another
train following them, which might not be signalled in time to
prevent a collision, and that safety required him to get off, but
all this was denied by Pace. The proper signals were not
given, and shortly thereafter a train also going toward Louisville ran into the train on which Pace was travelling, and he
was injured.
The bill of exceptions states:
" The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury as
follows: ' If you find from the proof that just previous to the
collision plaintiff was warned by the conductor and brakeman
of the danger of going to sleep or remaining in the car in
which he had been riding while it was standing on the track,
and if you further find that plaintiff, after being so warned,
then could have escaped, such negligence then will bar him
from such recovery; or, if you find from the proof that the
plaintiff was told by the conductor and brakeman of the danger, and that he had time after such warning to avoid the
danger and neglected to do so, that would prevent his recovery
from the company;' which requests were granted. However,
the court qualified the defendant's request as follows: 'But
if you find that after the train broke loose the conductor came

NEWPORT NEWS & MISS. VALLEY CO. v. PACE.

39

Opinion of the Court.

back and told the brakeman to go back and flag, and then
told Pace the train was following, and for fear of accident he
had better watch out for it, and if he saw it to get out of the
way, this would not be such warning as would make plaintiff's
negligence contributory unless he knew of the danger in time
to get out and avoid the injury; and in considering this you
will consider that plaintiff had a right to rely upon the rules
being obeyed and all proper precautions being taken to warn
the approaching train of the obstruction and delay, such as
prudence required the management to adopt, and he must
have been warned about the necessity for leaving the caboose
before negligence contributing to the injury can be attributed
to him. You must find not only the fact that plaintiff was
warned, but that the warning came to him in such words and
under such circumstances that a reasonable man, using ordinary care for his own safety, could have avoided the danger;
if so, he cannot recover.' To which defendant excepted ; and
defendant further excepted to the charge as given as follows:
' You cannot have any very satisfactory scale of measurement
to fix it (plaintiff's damage) by. It is of such a character that
no intelligent mind can find anywhere any satisfactory fixed
standard of judgment.' . . . 'You look into the character
and extent of the injury, to its duration in point of time, and
in every way you can conceive from this proof that Mr. Pace
can be physically affected by the injury received by him.'
' On the other hand, the defendant is not going to
produce any doctor with an opinion that Pace's injuries are
serious and so they bring up another class of doctors. That
is natural for the defendant to do, and there is nothing wrong
about it; but . . . you, gentlemen of the jury, are to
take the testimony of the doctors on both sides and weigh it
in view of the fact that they are such witnesses as we call
experts, and are produced to you under the circumstances I
have mentioned.' ' In consideration of this question of damages according to Mr. Pace's character, it is quite easy for a
jury, or for anybody to be misled. A railroad company has
no more right to kill a worthless vagabond, when accepted as
a passenger, than to kill the President of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Its obligation is just the same to carry him safely, and his
right to compensation just the same; but you will see that,
when you go to determine the amount of damages that has
been inflicted upon one by such an injury, his character is a
very important element in it. A man who is worthless and
never earns a dollar, but is a burden upon his family - a vagabond and a trifling, worthless fellow -certainly is not worth
as much as some man who is the opposite of all that -a worthy citizen, a good man, and a blessing to his family, a blessing
to the community; and you have a right, in determining the,
question of the amount of damages, to look to the quality of
the thing that has been injured, and for that reason proof has
been admitted before you so that you may know just what
manner of man Mr. Pace is, and so that you may say how
much his character and qualities as a man may be regarded in
measuring these damages against the railroad company for
its negligence, if he has not contributed to it.'"
As to the qualification of the instructions in respect of the
alleged warning, the exception was too general. There was a
conflict of evidence on the point, and if what was said to Pace,
if anything, did not apprise him of the danger and the necessity for leaving the caboose in order to avoid it, his right to
recover would not be defeated on the ground of contributory
negligence in that regard. Nor was the exception to the
other instructions well taken, tested by the rule that if one
proposition of several is correct, and all are excepted to e
gnasse, the exception cannot be sustained.
The jury were properly told to look into the character of
the evidence on the question of damages, the extent of the
injury, its duration in point of time, and the proof showing
how Pace was physically affected by it, yet that was as much
excepted to as the other observations of the court.
We see no reason for declining to apply the settled rule
upon this subject.
Judgment ajflrmed.

