OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

GREEN v. BOGUE.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 827.

Argued May 1, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

In view of Rule 33, which provides that "if upon an issue the facts stated
in the plea be determined for the defendant, they shall avail him as far
as in law and in equity they ought to avail him," the plaintiffs may properly ask this court to review the decree of the court below, sustaining
the sufficiency of the defendants' plea.
Where the facts averred and relied upon in a former suit between the parties which proceeded to final judgment are substantially those alleged in
the pending case under consideration, the fact that a different form or
measure of relief is asked by the plaintiffs in the later suit does not
deprive the defendants of the protection of the prior findings and decree
in their favor.
Nor is their right affected by the fact that Mrs. Green did not join in the
exceptions, or that Mr. Green, who had joined, withdrew his objections,
in view of the fact that the exceptions were brought and sought to be
maintained in their interest and by their trustees and privies.
The allegations of fraud, based upon the existence of an outside contract,
are satisfactorily disposed of by the Supreme Court of Illinois in Baring
v. Peters, 134 Illinois, 606.
ON the 15th day of February, 1890, Hetty H. R. Green and
Edward H. Green, citizens of the State of Vermont, filed their
bill in the United States Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, against George M. Bogue, Henry W. Hoyt,
Hamilton B. Bogue, George W. Smith, Abram M. Pence, and
Williard T. Block, all citizens of the State of Illinois, and
Henry A. Barling and Edward D. Mandell, trustees, citizens
of the city of New York, and William IT. Peters, receiver of
the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, Virginia, a citizen
of the State of Virginia.
The bill sets out that Hetty H. R. Green is the daughter of
Edward Mott Robinson, late of the State of New York, now
deceased, and that she is a beneficiary under the last will and
testament of the said Edward Mott Robinson, and that Ed-

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

ward IT. Green is the husband of said Hetty H. R. Green,
and one of the trustees of the said will; that on or about the
20th day of June, 1864, one Robert W. Hyman, late of Chicago, Cook County, Illinois, now deceased, purchased for the
joint account of himself and the said Edward Mott Robinson
an undivided one-half of section 21, township 39 north, range
13 east of the third principal meridian, in Cook County, Illinois, the money for which purchase was advanced by the said
Edward Mott Robinson; and that on or about the said last
mentioned date an agreement in writing was entered into
between the said Robert W. Hyman and the said Edward
MIott Robinson, setting forth and defining the rights of said
Hyman and said Robinson in respect of the said purchase as
aforesaid. It is set forth in said agreement, which was executed on the 20th day of June, 1864, that Robert W. Hyman
had purchased the undivided half of said section 21 for the
joint account of himself and Edward Mott Robinson, and was
to pay therefor the sum of $15,000; that the said Edward
Mott Robinson had advanced the payments made upon said
half of section 21, and had taken the title to the land in himself, subject to certain deferred payments, and had obligated
himself to pay the taxes upon the said property, and any further advances that it should become necessary or expedient
to make.
It was further agreed that said Hyman should sell the said
premises within one year from the date thereof, unless otherwise agreed between the parties thereto, and should make no
charge for buying, selling, or attending to the payment of
taxes on the premises, and that upon such sale the proceeds
should be distributed as follows:
"First. Said Robinson shall be reimbursed all moneys advanced and to be advanced on said premises by him, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum.
" Second. The balance of the proceeds of such sale shall be
equally divided between the respective parties hereto.
"Third. An account of sales and of proceeds shall be made
and rendered by said Hyman to said Robinson within ten
days after such sale is made, if made by said Hyman.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"Fourth. And the said Robert W. Hyman for himself, his
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, doth covenant
and agree hereby to and with the said Edward Mott Robinson, his heirs and assigns, that whenever sale is made of said
premises, that he, the said Robinson, or his heirs or his assigns,
shall, in any event, be reimbursed the full amount of all
advances made and to be made on said lands with interest
thereon at the rate of seven per cent per annum."
The bill further alleges that on the 14th day of June, 1865,
Edward Mott Robinson died, leaving a last will and testament,
which was admitted to probate on the 30th day of June, 1865,
before Gideon J. Tucker, surrogate of the county of New
York, in the State of New York.
By the terms of the said will (which is set out in full in said
bill of complaint) there was devised to Hetty Howland Robinson, the only living child of the said Edward Mott Robinson,
absolutely and in fee simple all the real estate situated in the
city of San Francisco, California; also the sum of nine hundred and ten thousand dollars to be paid to her, by the executors under the will, in six months from the decease of
Edward Mott Robinson.
By the terms of the will, Henry A. Barling, Abner H.
Davis, and Edward D. Mandell were made executors and
trustees to administer the said estate.
On the 24th day of September, 1867, Robert W. Hyman
purchased the remaining half of the section 21, township 39
north, range 13 east of the third principal meridian, in Cook
County, Illinois, for the sum of $17,050, which amount was
paid by Henry A. Barling and Abner H. Davis as executors
of the estate of Edward Mott Robinson, with the consent of
Hetty H. R. Green, one of the complainants in this bill.
This purchase was made, and the money paid, in pursuance
and according to the provisions of a contract executed on the
said 24th day of September, 1867, between Henry A. Barling
and A. 1-. Davis, executors, and Robert W. Hyman, and the
terms of the purchase were nearly identical with those of the
former purchase of the first half of said section 21.
The property was bought by Robert W. Hyman for the

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

joint account of himself and the estate of Edward Mott Robinson, and the money was advanced by the executors of the
said estate.
The last two paragraphs of the said agreement are as follows:
"It is further understood and agreed between the parties
that in respect of both said parcels or undivided halves purchased as aforesaid, the executors or trustees under the last
will and testament of Edward Mott Robinson have a right at
any time, or from time to time, in their discretion, to sell the
whole or any part or parts of said premises, for such price as
they may deem expedient, and said Hyman shall be bound by
the results of such sale.
"It is further agreed in respect of both said purchases, that
if within one year from this date there shall not have been
enough received from sales of said premises to reimburse said
Robinson's estate for his or its advances, with interest, the
executors, in making up their eventual account for reimbursements of the estate for its advances and interest, shall be
entitled to state the account of advances computed with interest up to the end of a year from this date, the whole principal
and interest drawing interest from that time, and so from that
time forth state the account with annual rests adding in the
accrued interest; provided always that in case of a loss
instead of a profit accruing on the purchase, such annual rests
shall not be made, but simple interest only for the whole time,
without rests, shall be charged."
It is provided that in case of a sale being made at any time
of section 21, that the executors of the estate of Edward Mott
Robinson shall first be reimbursed the amount of all advances
they have made or shall make for or in respect of said purchase, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per cent per
annum.
From the 20th day of June, 1864, until the time of his
death, Edward Mott Robinson advanced all the money which
had been paid on account of the purchase of said undivided
half of said section 21, whether for taxes or assessments or
improvements charged against the said property, and held the
title to the same.
VOL. CLVIII-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

After his death the other undivided half of said section was
bought by the executors and trustees of his estate and all payments and advances of every kind were made by them, and
the title taken in them as such trustees.
Robert W. Iyman, as a member of several firms doing
business in the city of New York, and in Norfolk, Virginia,
became indebted to the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk,
Virginia, in a large sum of money, and, in order to secure said
bank, procured from the trustees and executors of the estate
of Edward Mott Robinson a declaration of trust, and an
aoreeient that they would hold the proceeds, to a certain
amount, that might be derived from the sale of said lands,
and deliver the same to the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, Virginia, as security for said indebtedness.
The declaration of trust set forth that Abner If. Davis,
together with his co-executor, held the title to six hundred
and forty acres of land, being section twenty-one, town of
Cicero, Cook County, State of Illinois, under and by virtue of
certain agreements made by and between Edward Mott Robinson during his lifetime and Mr. R. W. Iyman, and also
between the executors of said Edward Mott Robinson and
R. W. Hyman, and that upon the sale of the said property the
said R. W. Hyman was to receive one-half the net profits
as provided by said agreements.
The said Abner I. Davis therein agreed to hold for the
account of the said bank such a sum not exceeding $100,000,
as might be found to be due to R. W. Hyman upon the sale
of said section twenty-one.
By the said declaration of trust, the said iyman intended
to and did assign to the said Exchange National Bank of
Norfolk, as security for his indebtedness to said bank, his
interest in the trust arising from the purchase of section
twenty-one.
On the 9th day of April, 1885, the Exchange National Bank
of Norfolk became insolvent, and under the direction of the
Comptroller of the Currency of the United States, William H.
Peters was appointed a receiver, and on the 13th day of April,
1885, took charge of the assets of the bank as such receiver.

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

On the 15th day of May, 1885, Robert W. IHyman died
intestate, and Robert W. Hyman, Jr., was appointed administrator of his estate by the probate court of Cook County, in
the State of Illinois, and thereafter duly qualified.
During the year 1887 Abner H. Davis died and Edward II.
Green, one of the complainants in the said bill, was duly
appointed a trustee in his place.
On the 29th day of August, 1887, the legal title of the said
section twenty-one was held by the said Barling, Mandel &
Green, as trustees, and the said Peters, as the receiver of the
Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, held the assignment of
the interest of the said Hyman in said section twenty-one by
way of pledge as security for the debt of the bank against the
estate of said Robert W. Hyman. On that day William 11.
Peters, as receiver for the bank, filed his bill on the equity
side of the Circuit Court of Cook County, in the State of Illinois, setting forth the facts in relation to the purchase of said
section twenty-one, and in reference to the trust under which
the same was held by the said trustees, and in reference to the
hypothecation by the said lyman of his interest in the said
trust, praying that the amount due to him, the said Peters, as
such receiver, might be ascertained and the amount due the
said trustee might be likewise ascertained, and that the said
premises might be decreed to be sold and the proceeds of such
sale distributed in accordance with the rights and equities of
the parties.
On the 9th day of April, 1888, a decree was rendered
according to the prayer of the bill. It provided, among other
things, that the joint adventures entered upon in the lifetime
of Robert W. Hyman and Edward Mott Robinson,' as evidenced by the contracts of June 20, 1864, and September 24,
1867, be wound up and closed, and that section twenty-one
aforesaid should be sold by George Bass, one of the masters
of the Circuit Court of Cook County, for the purpose of distributing the proceeds of the sale, in accordance with the findings made. It provided that any of the parties to that suit
should be permitted to bid and become purchasers at said sale,
and also provided that if said section should not sell for a sum

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

equal to $600,000, the bill of complaint should be dismissed at
complainants' cost.
From this decree the defendants appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois, by which court the decree was
affirmed, and the order affirming said decree was thereafter
duly filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, and it was
thereupon by said court ordered that said decree be executed, in pursuance of which order George Bass, one of the
masters of said Circuit Court, sold said premises at public
vendue, on the 21st day of December, 1889. The sale was
made to George M. Bogue, Henry W. Hoyt, and Samuel B.
Bogue, who were doing business as real estate brokers in
Chicago, under the firm name of Bogue & Hoyt, for the sum
of six hundred and two thousand dollars, ($602,000,) which
sale was confirmed by the Circuit Court on the 15th day of
February, 1890.
The bill in the case at bar charges that Bogue & Hoyt had
been for several months prior to said sale in the employment
of Peters, the receiver for the Exchange National Bank,
endeavoring to negotiate a sale of said premises, and that in
pursuance of such employment they began negotiations with
one William T. Block, and procured from said Block an agreement to purchase said section 21, through the said .Bogue &
Hoyt, for a sum of money unknown to the complainant, but
which sum is charged in the bill to be in excess of $760,912.26,
and they, said Bogue & Hoyt, acting with the said Peters,
secretly and unknown to the complainants, made and entered
into an agreement in words and figures as follows:
" MEMORANDUM.

"William H. Peters, as receiver of the Exchange National
Bank of Norfolk, Virginia, and Bogue & Hoyt, hereby agree,
as follows:
"First. The said Peters, receiver, agrees to sell to Bogue &
Hoyt all right, title, and interest, and claim which he now
has in or to the decree entered on the 9th day of April, 1888,
in the Circuit Court of Cook Cbunty, in case No. 62,375, entitled William . Peters,Receiver &c. v. Robert W. Hyman, Jr.,

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

Administrator, &c., et al., and which amounts to $83,426.35
with interest from the entry of said decree, no payment having
been made thereon.
"Second. The said Bogue & Hoyt agree to pay to said
Peters, receiver, therefor the sum of $83,426.35, with interest
from the 9th of April, 1888, at the rate of six per cent per annum, of which sum $2000 have been paid and the receipt thereof
is hereby acknowledged. The remainder is to be paid as soon
as the sale to be made in pursuance of said decree shall have
been confirmed by the Circuit Court of Cook County.
"Third. It is understood that unless said Bogue & Hoyt, or
a member or representative of said firm, shall become the purchaser of section 21, township 39 north, range 13 east of the
third principal meridian, at such sale, and the premises shall
be struck off to them, and such sale afterwards confirmed by
said court, this agreement shall not be binding upon either of
the parties hereto, and the sum of money paid as aforesaid on
account of said purchase shall be returned to said Bogue &
Hoyt.
"Fourth. In order to secure said property Bogue & Hoyt
agree to bid up to the sum of $760,912.96, or so much as may
be necessary to have the same struck off to said firm or its
representatives, it being understood that said firm shall not be
required to bid a larger sum in any event than last mentioned
sum.
"Fifth. It is understood that time shall be of the essence of
this agreement, and that upon payment of the full sum to be
paid to said Peters, receiver, he shall execute and deliver to
said Bogue & Hoyt any instrument or instruments of writing
which shall reasonably be devised or required for the purpose
of giving effect to this agreement in carrying out the intent
thereof.
" Witness the hands of said parties this 20th day of December, 1889.
(Signed)
"WILLIAM H. PETERIS,
"Receiver of the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, Vra.
(Signed)
"By SMITH & PENcE .
"BOGUE & HOYT."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

The bill further alleges that the amount due the Robinson
estate at the time of making the said sale under the provisions
of the two contracts before mentioned was $575,568.42, and
that the amount due Peters as receiver was $91,921.92, and
that in order for section 21 to sell for an amount sufficient to
allow Peters to receive the full value of his claim, namely,
$91,921.92, it would be necessary for the property to sell for
$759,412.26, which amount includes the amount due to the
Robinson estate, as advances, and an additional amount due
the Robinson estate as profits equal to the $91,921.92, which
was due Peters as receiver as profits, and that the master's fee
for making such. sale amounted to $1500, making a total of
$760,912.26, which amount must be realized by a sale of said
section 21 in order to allow the receiver to receive the face
value of his claim from the proceed's of the sale.
The bill charges that because of the secret agreement made
on the 20th day of December, 1889, between Peters as receiver
for the bank and Bogue & Hoyt, acting in fact for the Grant
Locomotive Works, Peters consented that Bogue & Hoyt
need not bid said premises higher than $602,000, provided
they should pay to said Peters the sum of $91,921.92, the full
face value of Peters' claim, and as a result of such an agreement the premises were in fact bid off at the master's sale for
the sum of $602,000.
The bill charges further that the sale was made in the interest of William T. Block, or for the parties whom he represented, and that there was fraudulent collusion between himself and George M. Bogue, Henry W. Hoyt, and .- amilton B.
Bogue to secrete from Hetty H. R. Green and from the trustees of the estate of Edward Mott Robinson the fact that any
sum in addition to the amount actually bid at the sale Was
paid on account of the purchase of said property.
It charges also that at the time of the sale the secret agreement before mentioned was unknown to the complainants in
this bill, and that the sum of $91,921.92, which by the terms
of the said agreement of December 20, 1889, was to have been
paid by Bogue & Hoyt to Peters as receiver, has been actually paid in addition to the $602,000, and that the said sum

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

is now in the hands of the said Peters, or in the hands of
George W. Smith and Abram Pence, his solicitors, or in the
hands of some one ready to be paid to said Peters, and that
this additional sum of $91,921.92 is a part of the consideration
money of said sale, over and above the amount of $602,000,
which was actually bid at said sale, and that this additional
amount ought to be divided equally between the said Peters
and the said Robinson estate as profits under the provisions
of the contracts of June 20, 1864, and September 24, 1867,
and that in whosesoever hands the said money now is, these
parties should be charged with a trust for one-half of the
same in favor of the trustees of the Edward Mott Robinson
estate.
The bill prays that the defendants may make discovery as
to all contracts, agreements, arrangements, and understandings
between them, or any two of them, in regard to the purchase
of said premises, whether at the master's sale, or with reference to the final adjustment with said Peters, and that the
$91,921.92 may be decreed to be held in trust to the extent of
one-half thereof, for the benefit of the trustees representing
the estate of Edward Mott Robinson -and Hetty H. R. Green
as cestui que trust; and further, that such of the defendants
as may have the said $91,921.92 in their possession or under
their control may be decreed to account for one-half thereof,
and to pay the same over to the trustees of the estate of
Edward Mott Robinson for the benefit of Hetty H. R. Green
as cestui que trust.
On April 3, 1890, the defendants filed a plea in this cause,
in which they set forth that the suit mentioned in the bill of
complaint as having been brought by said Peters, as receiver
for the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, Virginia, in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, was a bar to the proceeding
as prayed for in complainants' bill. The plea alleged that
Hetty II. R. Green, Henry A. Barling, Edward D. Mandell,
and Edward H. Green, with others, were parties defendant
in said suit, and that Hetty H. R. Green and Edward 11.
Green appeared by counsel and filed their answer in said Circuit Court of Cook County, to said bill, and that the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Mandell and Barling also appeared by counsel and filed their
said answer; that said cause was heard in due course by said
Circuit Court of Cook County, and on the 9th day of April,
1888, a decree was entered therein; that from said decree the
complainants in this bill, together with said Barling and Mandell, prayed an appeal to the appellate court of the State of
Illinois, for the First District, which was allowed, and that
upon a hearing the appellate court affirmed the decree of the
Circuit Court in said cause. That the appeal was then taken
to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, and that upon
a hearing in said court the decree of the Appellate Court was
likewise affirmed. That afterwards, in compliance with the
decree so entered, the Circuit Court, on the 9th day of
April, 1888, through one of its masters in chancery, George
Bass, sold the premises known as section 21 as aforesaid for
the sum of $602,000. That the said Bass did, on the 10th day
of January, 1890, file his report of such sale in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, and gave notice to all the parties in
interest to file their objections within five days from that
date; that on the 15th (lay of January, 1890, the said Barling, Mandell, and Edward 1I. Green, as trustees, together
with Robert W. ilyman, Jr., as administrator, filed objections
to said report and a petition praying that said sale should be
set aside ; in and by said objections and petition it was among
other things alleged that said George M. Bogue was not the
real or bonafde purchaser under said decree, nor was the sumn
of $602,000 the entire purchase money agreed to be paid for
the premises so sold. That, on the contrary, the said Boge,
although publicly bidding the said sum of $602,000 as and for
the entire purchase money of said premises, made such bid
under and in accordance with a secret and collusive understanding with said Peters as such receiver, to allow said
receiver, out of the actual purchase money of said premises to
be paid by said Bogue, a further sum of money sufficient to satisfy the claim of said receiver, and interest up to date of the
sale, to wit, the sum of $91,92[.92, and that the said receiver
had abused the process of the court and availed himself of the
salable value of said land in said decree, and secretly sold the

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

same for a sum greatly in excess of the sum of $602,000,
reported by said master.
The plea further sets out that on the 17th day of January,
1890, Peters, as receiver, and Bogue filed their answers in said
Circuit Court to the objections and the petition of the objectors.
The answer denied all fraud and conspiracy of said objectors,
ant alleged that said objectors had not offered to bid any sum
upon a resale of the property.
The plea further alleges that affidavits in support of the objections and petition, in which the memorandum of December
20, 1889, was set out, and affidavits in support of said answer
of said Peters and Bogue, were duly filed in the Circuit Court
of Cook County, and that a hearing was had upon the objections and petition, at which hearing the affidavits were read,
and that on the 17th day of February, after a full hearing,
the court entered a decretal order, which provided, among
other things, that upon reading the report of George Bass,
one of the masters in chancery of this court, and the objections to the confirmation of the sales so reported by said master, and the petition praying that the sale be set aside, filed
herein, said petition being in writing, and on reading the affidavits filed herein in support of said objections, and said petition and counter-affidavits filed on behalf of the complainant,
as well as the exhibits attached to all affidavits, and also the
answer of the complainant and George M. Bogue to the said
objections and petition, and said Edward 11. Green as trustee
having withdrawn his appearance as objector herein, and the
court being fully advised in the premises, doth order, adjudge,
and decree that the said report of the said master be and the
same is hereby approved and confirmed, and the sale of the premises described in the decree entered herein on the 9th day of
April, 1888, for the sum of $602,000, is in all respects approved, ratified, and confirmed.
The plea alleges that from this decretal order Henry A.
Barling as executor and Barling and Mandell as trustees and
Hyman as administrator, jointly and severally, prayed an appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, and that in
March, 1890, the case was argued before the Supreme Court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statemcent of the Case.

and taken under advisement, and is now pending therein, and
that Bogue has already paid to the said Bass the amount necessary to be advanced upon the sale of the said property, and
Bass has executed and delivered to one Grant, the assignee of
said Bogue, a deed for the said premises.
The plea further sets out that the Circuit Court of Cook
County acquired and had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of
the suit which was pending before it and of the parties thereto,
and that the complainants in this bill were among the parties
in said suit, and that the said letty II. R. Green, in respect
to the issues sought to be raised in this suit, being a party to
said suit in the Circuit Court of Cook County, is bound by
the orders and decrees of that court; that the subject-matter
of this suit has already been determined and adjudicated by
the said Circuit Court of Cook County, and this court has no
jurisdiction thereof, by virtue of which the defendants plead the
same as a bar to complainants' bill of complaint in this cause.
The plea denies the charges of fraud and combination, and
alleges that no fraudulent or secret verbal stipulation was entered into between Peters and Bogue & Hoyt, after the making of the memorandum of December 20, 1889, in relation to
the payment by Bogue & Hoyt to Peters of the sum of
$91,921.92, or any part of said sum. It also denies that in
pursuance of such agreement or arrangement the premises
were bid off by Bogue & Hoyt, for the sum of $602,000; or
that the further sum of $91,921.92 was paid for said premises.
It denies all collusion between the defendants in relation to
said sale, and also denies that Bogue paid to Peters the sum
of $91,921.92, or any sum whatever, or is to pay any such
sum to Peters by virtue of such sale, or that such a sum is in
the hands of any of the defendants in this suit for such purpose.
On the 11th day of April, 1890, argument of counsel was
had upon the said plea of the defendants, and after a hearing
thereon the plea was referred to Henry W. Bishop, master in
chancery, to take proof thereon, who reported the same to be
true, and upon the 11th day of October, 1890, a decree was
entered in pursuance to the master's report, finding that the

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

defendants' plea was true, and dismissing complainants' bill,
from which decree the complainants prayed an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States, which was allowed.
The plea in the case at bar is based wholly upon the proceedings had in the case of William, I. Peters, Receiver,
v. Robert W. Iyman, Jr., et al., which was tried in the Circuit Court of Cook County, State of Illinois, and from there
appealed to the Supreme Court or the State of Illinois, in
which court the appeal was pending at the time the plea in this
case was filed.
In order then to present the exact questions raised in the
case at bar by the plea of the defendants, it will be necessary
to review not only the findings and the report of the master
in the case of Peters, Receiver, v. lyman, Jr., et al., but the
objections filed by the defendants to the confirmation of the
master's report and the final decree of the Circuit Court, rendered after a hearing had upon the objections filed.
On the 10th day of January, 1890, George Bass, one of the
masters in chancery of the Circuit Court, in pursuance to the
decree entered in the case of Peters, Receiver, v. Hlyman, Jr.,
et al., on the 9th day of April, 1888, filed his report in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, in which he set out that he
had advertised the premises known as section 21, aforesaid, as
described in the former decree of sale, to be sold on the 21st
day of December, 1889, at the east main entrance of the courthouse in the city of Chicago, county of Cook, and State of
Illinois, to the highest and best bidder for cash. That he, the
said George Bass, as master, first offered to sell said section
in tracts of twenty, forty, or more acres, as might be desired,
and not finding a bidder, then offered in both larger and
smaller tracts, but with no greater success, whereupon the
whole section was offered, and the sum of $602,000 was bid
therefor by George M. Bogue, which was the highest and best
bid for said section as a whole, and the premises were accordingly struck off and sold to the said George M. Bogue for the
sum of $602,000.
On the 15th day of January, 1890, the following petition
with objections was filed in the Circuit Court:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

To the Honorable Jdyes of said courl in c ncery sitting:
"And now comes the undersigned, who are each defendants
in the said cause, and jointly and severally object to the confirmation of the master's report of sale, filed herein on the 10th
day of January, 1890, and jointly and severally move and
petition the court to reject the bid of $602,000 of George M.
Bogue therein mentioned, and disapprove and vacate the sale
of section twenty-one, of the town of Cicero, therein reported
as having been made to the said Bogue on the 21st day of
December, 1889, and to order a resale of said premises in the
above case in conformity with the decree of sale entered
therein, upon such terms as to the court may appear proper
and in accordance with the interests of the' parties; and as
the ground of said motion and petition the undersigned respectfully show the court that the said George M. Bogue was
not a bonafide purchaser under said decree, nor was the said
sum of $602,000 the entire purchase money agreed to be paid
by him for the premises so sold; that, on the contrary, the said
Bogue, although publicly bidding the said sum of $602,000 as
and for the entire purchase money of said premises, made such
bid under and in accordance with a collusive and secret understanding with said receiver, the complainant herein, to allow the
said receiver out of the actual purchase money of said premises to be paid by said Bogue, a further large sum of money
sufficient to satisfy the claim of said receiver, and interest up
to date of the sale, to wit, the sum of $91,921,92, which collusive agreement of the said Bogue with the said receiver the
said Bogue and the said receiver will carry out upon the confirmation of the present sale, if the same should be confirmed,
so that out of such purchase money and in fraud of the
express terms of the decree of sale, and in fraud of the rights
of the petitioner herein, the said Bogue is to pay the said
receiver his said claim in full, and limit the amount to be
received by said Barling from said proceeds in excess of the
account for advances and interest to one-half the difference
between that amount and the amount of said Bogue's bid,
which one-half, after deducting one-half of $1500 for the estimated cost, would equal only the sum of $12,465.79, it being

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

the intent and purpose of the said Bogue and said receiver
and the agreement aforesaid to confine the share and interest
of the said Barling and the said trustees in the proceeds of
such sale to the amount publicly reported by the said master
as the limit to the purchase money to be paid by said Bogue,
all of which agreements are fraudulent and contrary to equity,
and were knowingly and wilfully kept secret from the undersigned until after the said sale, so that they did not learn of
the same until the day following.
"And for that also the said Bogue, although at and up to
the time of the said sale, assuming and professing to the
undersigned defendants to be an agent of the said receiver for
the purpose of furthering a sale to the highest bidder, under
and in accordance with the decree of sale in said cause, and
undertaking such agency and assuming the duties thereof,
was acting under a secret agreement with the Grant Locomotive Works, (or the promoters of the organization of a corporation under the laws of the State of Illinois to bear that name,
including said Bogue as one of such promoters,) which agreement had also the consent and coiperation of the said receiver,
and was carefully kept from the knowledge of defendants
until after the master's sale aforesaid, and was to the effect
and substance that the said Bogue, while outwardly professing to the defendants to be the agent of the said receiver in
and about the effecting of a sale of said premises under the
decree, should secretly represent the said corporation or the promoters thereof hereinafter named, or some of them, as the bidders and purchasers of said property. It was further a part
of said agreement that said receiver should also publicly bid
at such master's sale as if in competition with the said Bogue,
but in reality under prior agreement with the said Bogue,
who should be allowed to purchase said premises at as small
an advance above the minimum of $600,000, fixed by the
decree, as would suffice to secure the said land to the said
Bogue and his associates and confederates; and it was further
a part of said agreement between said Bogue, as such agent,
and said receiver, that the said receiver would not compete
with the said Bogue at such sale, and that said Bogue should

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

be allowed to purchase the said land without competition from
said receiver, and as cheaply as he could from the said master,
and at a bid to be publicly announced and reported by said
master to the court, upon the condition that the said Bogue
would pay to the said receiver the claim of the said receiver
in full, with interest down to the date of said sale, which bad
been previously figured over between them and agreed upon
at the sum of $91,921.92, which sum is to be paid in pursuance
of said agreement, provided the parties thereto can induce this
court to confirm said sale and authorize a conveyance of the
said land to said Bogue.
"And for that the said receiver has abused the process of
this court and availed himself of the salable value of said land
under said decree, and thereby has secretly sold said premises
for a sum greatly in excess of the sum of $602,000, reported
by said master, all which excess he and the said Bogue intend
to divert to the purpose of paying said receiver's claim in full,
and so to avoid sharing the same with the persons entitled
thereto under said decree as aforesaid.
"And for that said premises have been sacrificed, according
to the sale reported in said report, at the inadequate sum of
$602,000, when the same were worth at least the sum of
$800,000, or $850,000, or thereabouts, and when the purchaser
thereof is actually to pay, under this agreement aforesaid, the
sum of $681,456.13, or thereabouts, instead of the sum of
$602,000.
"And said defendants make said George M. Bogue and the
complainant respondents to this petition, and also move the
court for an order requiring said defendants to answer this
petition, but not under oath, by a short day to be fixed by the
court, and referring the matter of defendants' objections to
said sale and this petition to a master in chancery of this court
to hear such proofs as may be submitted by said defendants
and said complainants and said Bogue under such order and
direction as to the examination of witness and production of
papers and documents as to the court may seem meet, but
that such order include a direction to said Bogue and complainant to appear for examination and to produce before said

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

master, for inspection of counsel of defendants, all contracts,
memoranda in writing, books, letters in the possession or control of them, or either of them, relating to or connected with the
negotiation for section 21 or with the action of said George M.
Bogue or 1-. B. Bogue, of the firm of Bogue & Hoyt, of which
firm the said George i. Bogue is the senior partner, or the
action or negotiation of said George M. Bogue, or said firm of
Bogue & Ifoyt with said complainant, and that the said Bogue
also produce before said master all letters, papers, and contracts in his possession and control relating to said negotiations and purchase, either with said complainant or any of the
promoters of said corporation, especially with E. Y. Jeffery
and W. T. Block, and that said master may make due report
to this court in that behalf, so that this motion may be heard
by this court upon the evidence to be orally taken, with all
convenient speed, or that the court, in its discretion, set down
the said matters and things before the court for hearing on
oral evidence, and that all necessary orders may be entered
from time to time by the court which the nature of the petitioner's case may require. "HENRY A. BARLING, Ew'or;
"I-ENRIY

A.

BARLING,

"EDWARD

D.

"EDWARD

H. GREEN, Trustees, and

"ROBERT

"By

W.

MANDELL,

and

HYMAN, JR.,

Adm'r,

PADDOCK & WRIGHT, Sol'r8."

On January 17, 1890, the answer of the complainant and
George M. Bogue was filed to the petition and objections of
the defendants. The answer avers, first, that Barling, as executor, and Barling, Mandell and Green, as trustees, did not
have such an interest in the subject-matter of the sale as to
entitle them to object thereto, and that Hyman, as administrator, had no real or substantial interest in the subject-matter
of the suit. It denied that George M. Bogue was not a bona
fide purchaser at said sale; denied that $602,000 was not the
whole of the purchase money agreed to be paid for the premises; denied that prior to the sale a collusive understanding
was entered into between Bogue and Peters to allow Peters,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

out of the purchase money of the premises, a further large sum
of money, sufficient to satisfy the claim of the receiver and
interest up to the date of the sale, or any other sum of money.
The answer admits that an agreement in writing, a copy of
which has been filed as an exhibit to one of the affidavits filed
by the objectors, has been entered into between Peters, the
receiver, and the firm of Bogue & Hoyt, but avers that the
said writing expressed the whole of the contract between
the parties in that behalf. It denies that said agreement was
in fact or in intent in fraud of the expressed terms of the decree
or in fraud of the objectors. It admits that said agreement
was not known to said objectors until after the sale, but denies
that there was any obligation on the part of the receiver or of
Bogue & Hoyt to disclose the same to them. It denies that
up to the time of the sale Bogue professed to the objectors to
be an agent of Peters for the purpose of furthering a sale to
the highest bidder, and denies that Bogue had at any time
been under any duty or obligation to the objectors, or was
bound to disclose to them any of his acts or doings in relation
to the sale. It admits that Bogue when bidding for said premises was acting for and on behalf of persons engaged in the
organization of a corporation to be known as the Grant Locomotive Works, but denies that Peters was a party to such
organization, or had any interest in it. It denies that there
were any agreements by which it was understood or agreed
that Peters as receiver should bid at such sale as if in competition with Bogue; denies that Peters and Bogue have abused
the process of the court or been guilty of fraud, collusion, or
deceit in any of their acts in relation to the sale, which could
have misled the objectors or deprived any one of the opportunity of bidding at the sale. It denies that the said premises
were sold for an inadequate price, and avers that the objectors, not having offered to reimburse Bogue as purchaser for
his outlays, attorney's fees and expenses, and for interest
thereon, and not having offered to pay any sum for said premises in case of resale, are speculators and not entitled to the
consideration of the court. It avers that Barling, in respect
to said sale, was placed upon more than equal terms with

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Statement of the Case.

Bogue, and had an opportunity to bid at the same on more
than equal terms. It further denies all of the allegations of
the objectors' petition not expressly admitted, and prays that
the sale may be confirmed.
The final decree entered on the 11th day of February, 1890,
is as follows:
"On reading the report of George Bass, one of the masters
in chancery of this court, heretofore filed herein, and the
objections to the confirmation of the sale so reported by the
master, and the portion praying that said sale be set aside,
filed herein on behalf of Henry A. Barling, as executor under
the last will and testament of Edward Mott Robinson,
deceased; Henry A. Barling, Edward D. Mandell, Edward H-.
Green, as trustees under the will of said Robinson, and Robert
W. Hyman, Jr., as administrator of the estate of Robert W.
Hyman, deceased, by Paddock & Wright, their solicitors, said
objections and petition being in writing, and on reading the
affidavits filed herein, in support of said objections, and said
petition, and counter-affidavits filed on behalf of the complainant, as well as the exhibits attached to all such affidavits, and
also the answer of the complainant and George M. Bogue to
said objections and petition, and said Edward H. Green, as,
trustee, having withdrawn his appearance as an objector
herein, after hearing Messrs. Paddock & Wright, and Newton
A. Partridge, of counsel for said Henry A. Barling as executor,
said Henry A. Barling and Edward D. Mandell as trustees, and
said Robert W. Iyman as administrator, and also George W.
Smith, Abram AT. Pence, and David B. Lyman, of counsel for
the complainant herein, William II. Peters, as receiver, and said
Bogue, and the court, being now fully advised in the premises,
doth order, adjudge, and decree that the said report of the said
master be, and the same is hereby, approved and confirmed, and
the sale of the premises described in the decree, entered herein
on the 9th day of April, 1888, to George M. Bogue, for the sum
of six hundred and two thousand dollars ($602,000), is in all respects approved, ratified, and confirmed, and it appearing that
twenty per cent of said sum of money has been paid by said
Bogue, to the master, in accordance with the terms of said decree:
VOL. CLVII-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that upon the
payment to said master by said Bogue of the remainder of the
price bid by him for said premises, such remainder being
four hundred and eighty-one thousand six hundred dollars
($481,600), such payment to be made before the expiration of
twenty-five days from the date of the entry of this decretal
order, said master shall execute and deliver to said Bogue a
deed of said premises in conformity with the terms of said
decree.
"And it is further ordered by the court that the amounts
asked to be allowed by the master in said report for his charges
and disbursements and expenses of sale be, and the same are
hereby, allowed, and said master is authorized to retain the
same from the moneys which have come, or shall come into
his hands, and also to pay out of such moneys any costs of this
suit which may remain unpaid.
"And the said master, upon delivering said deed, and after
payment of the charges, disbursements, costs, and expenses as
aforesaid, is directed to pay to the said Henry A. Barling, as
executor as aforesaid, or to -Paddock & Wright, his solicitors,
out of such purchase moneys, being the net proceeds of said
sale, the sum of five hundred and five thousand four hundred
and fourteen dollars and six cents ($505,414.06), with interest
thereon from January 1,1888, to April 9, 1888, at seven per
cent per annum, and interest on the amount of such principal
and interest from April 9, 1888, to February 11, 1890, the date
of the entry of this decree, at the rate of six per cent per
annum; also to said Barling as such executor or his said solicitors, the further sum of eight thousand and twenty-eight
dollars and thirty-nine cents ($8028.39), being for taxes paid,
under authority of this court, since April 9, 1888, with interest
thereon, and that he pay to said Barling as executor, or his
said solicitors, one-half of the remaining proceeds of such sale,
and that he pay to the solicitors for the complainant the other
one-half.
"In case the purchaser at the sale under said decree shall
fail to pay the unpaid part of said purchase money so bid by
him at said sale, in full to said George Bass, master to this

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

court, within the said time so fixed for the payment thereof,
the said sale shall thereupon be set aside and a resale had of
said premises upon terms to be settled by the court, with liberty to the parties to apply.
"And thereupon the said Henry A. Barling, as such executor,
said Barling and Mandell as trustees, and said Hyman as
administrator, as aforesaid, jointly and severally pray an appeai
to the Supreme Court of this State, and such appeal is allowed
by the court as so prayed upon the filing of an appeal bond,
conditioned according to law, in the penal sum of one hundred
thousand dollars, to the said William H. Peters, receiver, and
George M. Bogue, surety, to be approved by the court within
twenty days from the entry of this decree, and twenty days is
,allowed for filing a certificate of evidence.
"And this cause having been heard at the January term,
1890, of this. court, and the parties complainant and defendant
purchasers and objectors having, by their respective solicitors,
agreed at such time, in open court, that such order or decree as
this court should enter herein, should be entered as of such
term, and of the date of February 11, 1890, it is accordingly
ordered that this decree be entered and have effect n+unc pro
tune as of the 11th day of February, 1890."
From this decree the present appeal was taken.
Mr. L. II. B'isbee for appellants.
JMr. George W. Smnith for appellees. -Mr.David B. Lyman
and Mr. Theodore S. Garnett were with him on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE SuIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

How far the chancery rule, that if a plaintiff replies to a
plea in bar, joining issue upon the facts averred in it, thus
putting the defendant to the trouble and expense of proving
his plea, he thereby admits the sufficiency of the plea, and
that if such facts are found to be true, the bill must be dismissed without reference to the equity arising from any other
facts stated in the bill, is affected or modified by rule 33 in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

equity, which provides that "if upon an issue the facts stated
in the plea be determined for the defendant, they shall avail
him as far as in law and equity they ought to avail him," was a
question put in the opinion of this court in Farley v. Kilt8on,
120 U. S. 315, but its consideration was not deemed necessary to the determination of that case.
In the present case the plaintiffs put down the plea for argument as to its sufficiency, and, after that question had been
determined against them, filed a replication, putting in issue
the facts averred in the plea, which issue was likewise found
against them, and the question now presented is whether, by
putting the case upon an issue of fact, instead of abiding by
the issue as to the legal sufficiency of the plea, the plaintiffs
are precluded from raising the latter question in this court.
Undoubtedly, under the rule in the English Chancery Court,
recognized by this court in ihughes v. Blalee, 6 Wheat. 453,
472, and in Rhode Island v. Massachtsetts, 14 Pet. 210, the
plaintiffs would be held to have abandoned their right to have
the sufficiency of the plea as a defence to the bill again considered. But we think that, in view of rule 33, which has
been adopted since those cases were decided, the plaintiffs
may properly ask this court to review the decree of the court
below in respect to the sufficiency of the plea.
The inequity of having a case turn on the fate of a plea of,
perhaps, immaterial facts, doubtless led to the adoption of
that rule.
In Pearce v. Rice, 142 U. S. 28, the effect of the rule was
considered, and it was held that under it the court may, upon
final hearing, do, at least, what, under the old rule, might
have been done when the benefit was saved to the hearingciting Cooper's Eq. P1. 233, and Story's Eq. P1l.  698, to the
effect that if, upon argument, the benefit of a plea is saved to
the hearing, it is considered, that, so far as appears to the
court, it may be a defence; but that there may be matter
disclosed in evidence which would avoid it, supposing the matter pleaded to be strictly true; and the court, therefore, will
not preclude the question. See also, Hlancock v. Carlton, 6
Gray, 39, 54.

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

How far, then, do the facts alleged in the plea, and determined in their favor, avail the defendants in law and equity?
The defendants in error make two answers to this question.
They say that the proceedings and decree in the state court,
which form the subject of the plea, are conclusive of the entire
controversy; and they say that, even if such proceedings and
decree were not conclusive, yet the facts of the case disclose
no equitable grounds for the relief prayed for in the present
bill.
Without repeating the facts above particularly stated, it
may be briefly said that the proceedings in the state court
arose out of a sale of real estate decreed under a bill in equity
filed by a pledgee of an undivided interest in the land to enforce his lien. The sale was made by a master, under the
directions of the court, and to his return of the fact of the
sale and to the confirmation of sale the plaintiffs in error filed
exceptions. Those exceptions were based upon a petition containing allegations of fraud on the part of persons concerned
in the sale, and especially an allegation that the sum of $602,000,
returned as the amount bid, was not the entire purchase money,
but that the further sum of $91,921 was part of the actual purchase money the fact of the payment of which had been concealed
from the petitioners. The petition asked that the persons
named, and particularly George M. Bogue, the purchaser, should
be compelled to answer, and that the matter should be referred
to a master in chancery to hear the proof of both parties, and
to make due report to the court. An answer on the part of
Bogue and others was put in, denying the allegations of fraud.
The court on February 11, 1890, filed a final decree overruling the petition and exceptions, and confirming the sale.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of Illinois, which was pending undetermined in that court
when the present bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States. It is, however, stated in the briefs of both
parties that the Supreme Court of Illinois has since affirmed
the decree of the Cook County Circuit Court.
A comparison of the facts alleged and the charges made in
the petition in the Cook County court and in the bill in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

present case has satisfied us that substantially they were the
same. It is now contended on the part of the plaintiffs in
error that the cases cannot be deemed legally the same, so as
to permit a plea of the first proceedings and decree as a bar
to the present bill, because the relief asked for in the state
court was the setting aside the sale, whereas the relief now
sought is to enforce a trust as to a portion of the purchase
money, leaving the sale to stand. But the facts averred and
relied on in the state court are, as already stated, substantially
those now alleged, and we do not deem the fact that a different form or measure of relief is now asked deprives the defendants in error of the protection of the prior findings and
decree in their favor. The same matters of fact would have
to be passed on, and if the plaintiffs in error are now entitled
to an account for a suppressed portion of the purchase money
they were so entitled in the proceedings in the state courts
even if, for other reasons, those courts refused to set aside
the sale.
Gardinier's Appeal, 89 Penn. St. 528, was a case where the
defendant in an action of ejectment was, by the terms of the
verdict, to hold the land in dispute upon certain conditions,
with which he failed to comply. The plaintiff had judgment
entered, and issued a writ of kaberefaciaspossessionen. Subsequently, the court granted a rule to show cause why plaintiff should not be enjoined from issuing said writ, which rule,
after a hearing on affidavits and an inspection of the record,
was discharged. The defendant afterwards filed a bill in
equity to enjoin the plaintiff from proceeding with said writ,
the grounds for relief being substantially those on which the
rule to show cause was granted, and it was held that the question was res judicata,and the injunction was properly refused,
the court saying: "That the judgment or decree of a court of
justice upon a legal or equitable issue within its jurisdiction
is binding and conclusive upon all other courts of concurrent
power, is a rule founded on the soundest policy, and we are
of opinion that we cannot grant the injunction prayed for
without violating this rule."
So, in .Frauenthal'sAppeal, 100 Penn. St. 290, it was held

GREEN v. BOGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

that when the defendant in a judgment obtains a rule to show
cause why execution thereon should not be stayed, and, after
depositions are taken, the rule is discharged, said defendant
cannot subsequently, upon proof of substantially the same
facts, obtain relief by injunction in equity - that the principle of resjudicat applies in such case; and the court said.:
"Whether the application to enjoin against issuing execution
be by motion and rule, or by bill, the relief is sought through
the equitable powers of the court alone, and not through the
intervention of a jury. The appellee in this case made his
election. Ile submitted his alleged grievance to a court of
competent jurisdiction. He had his day in court. The identical matter was adjudged against him." The same principle
has been often applied by this court. Goodrich v. The City,
5 Wall. 566; Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S. 13.
It is further urged that these two proceedings were not
legally identical because the parties were not wholly the same,
and that Mrs. Green did not join in the exceptions, and that
Edward Green, who had joined, withdrew his objections. But
the exceptions were brought and sought to be maintained in
their interest and by their trustees and privies. "Parties, in
the larger legal sense, are all persons having a right to control
the proceedings to make defence, to adduce and cross-examine
witnesses, and to appeal from the decision, if an appeal lies."
1 Greenleaf Ev. sec. 535.
"The parties to the suit at law having been parties to the
suit in equity, the subject-matter and the defence being the
same, it is not a sufficient objection to the introduction of the
record in the equity suit that other persons were parties to
the latter.
"No good reason can be given why the parties to the suit
at law who litigated the same question should not be concluded by the decree because others, having an interest in the
question or subject-matter, were admitted by the practice
of a court of chancery to assist on both sides." Tltomp8on v.
Roberts, 24 How. 233.
We do not feel called upon to define the nature of Mrs.
Green's estate under her father's will, but we are satisfied that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

she was adequately represented by the trustees, and that the
withdrawal of his exceptions by Edward Green, after issue
formed and evidence, must be deemed to have been a final
abandonment of such exceptions and an acquiescence in the
decree. Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler 1ining Co., 157
U. S. 6S3.
Besides pleading the decree of the state court as a bar,
under the principle of res judicata, the defendants in error
contend that, on the facts as found, the plaintiffs in error are
entitled to no equitable relief.
The conclusion already reached renders unnecessary any
extended consideration of those facts. But we have read the
allegations and the evidence contained in this record, and have
not been able to find any such state of facts as would have
warranted the court below in sustaining the bill, even if the
decree of the state court was out of the way.
The principal matter of complaint was based on the existence of the outside contract between Peters and BLogue &
Hoyt, whereby the latter agreed to pay Peters, or to bid
enough as against any other purchaser, to secure full payment
to the receiver, and it is claimed that Peters, as the complainant in the bill, was under some kind of a fiduciary relation to
the Green estate which made such an agreement fraudulent as
respects that estate. We are unable to see that such was the
relation between the parties, or that by such an arrangement
Peters abused the process of the court.
We regard the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois, in
Barling v. Peters, 134 Illinois, 606, as a satisfactory treatment
of this part of the case, and content ourselves with referring
to it.
Upon the whole we are satisfied that no wrong was done
these appellants by the dismissal of their bill, and accordingly
the decree of the court below is
Affirmed.

