OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

by any one learned in the law, we think the answer first given
by the court to the fourth question corresponds better with
its true meaning and intent, and that the companies were
bound to furnish defendant coal to fill contracts for future
delivery at the market price of coal in Detroit at the time he
made such contracts.
So far as Shipman's "fair proportion" of an increase is concerned, we see no distinction between nut and lamp.
This covers all the questions properly raised by the record
in this case, and the result is that the judgment of the court
below must be
Reversed, and the ease remanded for further proceedings in
conforuily with this opinion.
MR. JuSTicE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

EBY v. KING.
APPEAL

FROM THE
THE
No. 336.

CIRCUIT
NORTHERN

COURT

OF

DISTRICT

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF ILLINOIS.

Argued May 1, 2, 1895. -Decided

May 20, 1S95.

Reissued letters patents No. 7851, granted August 21, 1877, to Henry H. Eby
for an improvement in cob-carriers for corn-shellers are void, as being
for a different invention from that described and claimed in the original
letters, specification, and claim.
It is doubtful whether the Commissioner of Patents has jurisdiction to consider and act upon an application for a surrender of letters patent and
reissue, when there is only the bare statement that the patentee wishes
to surrender his patent and obtain a reissue.
Whether, when a patent has been surrendered and reissued, and such reissue
is held to be void, the patentee may proceed upon his original patent, is
considered and discussed, but is not decided.

Tiis was a bill in equity to recover damages for the infringement of reissued letters patent No. 7851, granted August 21,

EBY v. KING.
Statement of the Case.

1877, to the plaintiff Eby, for an improvement in cob-carriers
for corn-shellers.
The object of the invention was stated to be "the production of a cob-carrier for power cor:n-shellers, to receive the cobs
from the spout of the sheller and deliver them in any desired
direction, which is adapted to be adjusted both vertically and
horizontally upon its supporting-frame and driving mechanisin without interfering with or stopping its operation; and
the (my) invention therein consists in mounting the carryingframe upon a revolving block at its inner end and upon adjustable legs at the outer end, and driving the endless belt by
cog-gearing applied at the inner end thereof; and further, in
the combination, with such parts, of the central vertical shaft
and its connections for transmitting power from a pulley to
the inner end of the endless belt, all as fully hereinafter
described for effecting the purpose before explained."
The device is illustrated by the following drawings:

OCTOBER TERM. 1894.
Statement of the Case.

_;

..

0

The specification further proceeds:
"In operation, the carrying-frame is located with reference to
the corn-sheller in such manner that the cobs can be discharged
upon the lower end of the endless belt. Motion being communicated to the pulley C , the endless belt is operated through
the gearing described, and the cobs moved to and thrown from
the outer or upper end of the carrying-frame. The cobs are
delivered into a wagon driven under the end of the carrier, or
into any proper stationary or removable receptacle."
"When desired to turn the carrying-frame to either side, to
deliver the cobs in any other direction or into other receptacles, the outer end is moved bodily around, which moves
the block B and the gearing, and the hook-bolts 1' may then
be tightened up to hold the parts more rigidly in their new
position."
"By means of the devices for supporting the carrier and the
gearing for driving the endless belt at the inner end of the
carrying-frame, any extent of movement of such carryingframe is permitted without stopping the operation of the endless belt, and this movement is effected with but little inconvenience and delay. The changing of the direction of the
carrying-frame both vertically and horizontally could not be
performed with as great facility if the endless belt were
driven otherwise than at its inner end, where the least move-

EBY v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

ment is made, or if the said carrying-frame were supported by
less efficient means than those described."
There were two claims, which read as follows:
"1. A movable independent cob-carrier wherein are combined a supporting and revolving block, a carrying-frame
whose inner end is supported upon said block, and whose
outer end is supported upon movable legs and gearing applied
at the inner end of the carrying-frame and capable of acting
continuously, whether the carrying-frame is fixed in position or
being swung to a new position, substantially as described.
"2. A movable independent cob-carrier wherein are combined a carrying-frame supported at its inner end upon a
revolving block, and the central vertical shaft and its connections, whereby the said carrying-frame can be adjusted vertically and horizontally without stopping the operation of the
endless belt, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
The defences were that the reissue was void ; that the invention was lacking in patentable novelty; and a denial that the
defendant had infringed.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs, the court below
was of opinion that the reissue was obtained for the purpose
of broadening the claims to cover existing machines, and was
consequently void; and also that the defendant had infringed
neither the original nor the reissue. Thereupon the court dismissed the bill, and plaintiff appealed to this court.
Mr. t1arold G. Underwooc for appellant.
Parkinson was on his brief.

Mr. Joseph G.

Mr. John G. Manahan,for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE -BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As one of the chief defences in this case turns upon the
validity of the reissue, it becomes necessary to compare this
in some detail with the original patent No. 134,790, which was
granted January 14, 1873.
VOL. CLVII-

24

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

In this patent, figures 2, 3, and 4 of which are here given,
it is stated that b represents a disk or block, resting upon
proper bearings upon the framework a, provided with a central
orifice through which passes a shaft; that " the inner end of
the carrier-frame is pivoted to arms ee, rising from the block
6, as shown," and that "nirn
represent bolts secured in the
framework, the upper ends of which are turned over the block
b, as shown." The specification proceeds: "the carrier may
be turned for -the purpose of discharging the cobs, in any
desired direction, by revolving the block b, which supports
the carrier-frame, and the main portion of the actuating
devices upon its bearings, it being secured in any desired position by means of the hook-bolts ee," (evidently meaning the
hook-bolts mm, Fig. 4).

2 €5
1v

,

'.,
C

There were three claims, a's follows:
"1. The combination of the block 6, adapted to revolve as
described, and the hook-bolts ee, for supporting a carrier, as
described.
" 2. The combination of the block b and the central vertical
shaft and its connections, substantially as described."

EBY v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

The third claim covered a combination of the elements of
the entire carrier, and is not claimed to be infringed, nor is it
necessary to be described.
The description in the first claim, as well as in the specifications of the hook-bolts ee, for supporting the carrier, is clearly
a mistake. The hook-bolts are lettered mm, and are described
in the specification as bolts, "secured in the framework, the
upper ends of which are turned over the block b, as shown,"
(in figure 4,) while ee, which are really hooked arms, shown
in figure 2, attached to the block b at the lower end, and supporting the carrier at the upper end, should have been described as arms supporting the carrier.
I-ad the plaintiff, in his reissue, confined himself to the correction of an error so manifest, we should have found little difficulty in sustaining it ; but in his application, which was made
four years after the original patent, he makes no claim that
his patent "was inoperative or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient specification," or by reason of his having
claimed "more than lie had a right to claim as new," or that
any error had arisen " by inadvertence, accident, or mistake,"
without which the Commissioner has no right to grant a
reissue, but simply prays that he may be allowed to surrender
his original patent, and that "letters patent may be reissued
to him for the same invention, upon the annexed amended
specification." He makes no reference at all to the obvious
mistake in his first claim, and although the point is not distinctly made in the briefs, we think it a serious question
whether the Commissioner of Patents had any jurisdiction,
under Rev. Stat. § 4916, to consider the application upon the
bare statement that the patentee desired to surrender his
patent and obtain a reissue. The Commissioner is authorized
to reissue patents in certain specified cases, and if the petition
makes no pretence of setting forth facts entitling the patentee
to a reissue, it is exceedingly doubtful whether he obtains any
jurisdiction to act at all.
Waiving this, however, the patentee annexed to his application a wholly different description and specification of his invention, as well as different drawings, differently lettered, showing

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

different views, though apparently of the same machine, and
making six claims, the fifth and sixth of which correspond
with the first and second claims of the original patent, with
the mistake above mentioned corrected.
All these claims
were rejected, and the patentee acquiesced in the rejection of
the fifth and sixth, which do not again appear. Two new
claims were substituted, and these were also rejected, as having been met by former references. Subsequently a reissue
was allowed, with the claims as herein stated.
The hook-bolts m of the original patent, (b6of the reissue,)
by the loosening of which the block b (B of the reissue) was
permitted to revolve, are not altogether omitted in the reissue,
but are mentioned as "secured in the frame, and having their
upper ends turned over the block, which allow it to be revolved
easily in either direction." A new feature, however, is introduced in a cross-plate b, under the block as a support. The
vertical shaft C passes loosely through this plate, and the centre
of the block D. This plate is not noticed in the specification,
and is not lettered in the drawing of the original patent,
although the end of it is indistinctly shown in figure 2. The
claims of the reissue, so far from being confined to a combination of the circular block, and the arms for supporting the
carrier, or to the combination of the block, and the central
vertical shaft and its connections, cover broadly any "movable
independent cob-carrier, wherein are combined a supporting
and revolving block, a carrying-frame, whose inner end is
supported upon said block, and whose outer end is supported
upon movable legs, and gearing applied at the inner end of the
carrying-frame and capable of acting continuously, whether
the carrying-frame is fixed in position, or being moved into a
new position, substantially as described." The second claim
is even broader.
Meantime, however, defendant had, for more than two years
preceding the application for the reissue, been manufacturing
and selling cob-carriers substantially the same in construction
as that shown in the alleged infringing device. It also appears
that plaintiff was unable to obtain royalties, or sell licenses
under his original patent, by reason of his claims being too

EBY v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

narrow; but that since he had succeeded in having the patent reissued with broadened claims, other manufacturers had
submitted to his demand for royalties.
Under the rulings of this court, it is clear that this reissue
cannot be supported. Not only was there no claim of a defective or insufficient specification ; none that the patentee had
,claimed as his own invention more than he had a right to
claim as new; none of inadvertence, accident, or mistake;
but four years after the original patent was issued, the
patentee attempts to secure a reissue, with claims broadened
for the purpose of covering that which is presumed to have
been once abandoned to the public. All that has ever been
said by this court in restraint of the practice of reissuing
patents applies with full force to this case. TF/dte v. Dunbar,
119 U. S. 47; Jives v. Sargent, 119 IJ. S. 652; Dunham v.
.Dennison Manufacturing Co., 154 U. S.103.
A further question arises whether, where a patent has been
surrendered and reissued, and such reissue is held to be void,
the patentee may proceed upon his original patent. In other
words, whether the surrender is good, though the reissue be
void. As the law stood until 1870, it was held in Moffltt v.
Garr,1 Black, 273, that the surrender of a patent under the
act of 1836 was a legal cancellation of it; that no right could
afterward be asserted upon it; and even that suits pending
for an infringement of such patent fell with its surrender,
because the foundation upon which they were commenced no
longer existed. See also Reedy v. Scott, 23 Wall. 352, 364.
By the act of July 8, 1870, Rev. Stat. § 4916, it was declared that the surrender shall take effect upon the issue of
the amended patent; but it was intimated in Pe k v. -Collins,
103 U. S.660, that the effect of an adverse decision on the
title of a patentee to the invention would be as fatal to the
original letters as to his right to a reissue. In delivering
the opinion of the court, Ar. Justice Bradley observed that
"since the decision of this case ". (3lojitt v. GCarr) "it has
been uniformly held that if a reissue is granted, the patentee
has no rights except such as grow out of the reissued patent.
He has none under the original. That is extinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

No damages can be recovered for any acts of
infringement committed prior to the reissue. . . . It
seems to us equally clear, that as the law stood when that decision was made, ...
a patent surrendered for reissue
was cancelled in law as well when the application was
rejected, as when it was granted. The patentee was in the
same situation as he would have been if his original application for a patent had been rejected. . . . Surrender of
the patent was an abandonment of it, and the applicant for
reissue took upon himself the risk of getting a reissue or of
losing all. A failure upon the merits, in a contest with other
claimants, only gave additional force to the legal effect of
the surrender."
In McMurray v. lfallory, 111 U. S.97, it was held that
the patentee, who had surrendered his patent and taken
reissued letters on a new specification and for new claims,
could not abandon the reissue and resume the original patent
by a disclaimer. "This," said Mr. Justice Woods, " could be
done only, if it could be done at all, by surrender of the
reissued patent and the grant of another reissue." See also
Gage v. Herring,107 U. S.640.
But, even if the patentee were able to fall back upon the
original patent, counsel for the appellant, as well as his expert, admits that the combination described in the first claim
of such patent was anticipated by certain patents to Brinsmead and Bryan, and that described in the second claim was
also anticipated by a patent to one Nimbs. Assuming this
to be so, it was clearly incompetent for the patentee to
abandon these claims in toto and reconstruct his patent upon
a different theory, in order to make it salable, or to hold as
infringers other manufacturers who,. in the meantime, had
entered the field, relying upon his original patent as representing what he claimed to have invented and to be his own.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Afirmed.

