OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of its right to tax such portions of the tolls; and this is what
the court below decided.
In Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217, it was
held that a state statute which requires every corporation,
person, or association operating a railroad within the State to
pay an annual tax, to be determined by the amount of its
gross transportation receipts, and further provides that, when
applied to a railroad lying partly within and partly without
the State, or to one operated as a part of a line or system
extending beyond the State, the tax shall be equal to the proportion of the gross receipts in the State, to be ascertained in
the manner provided by the statute, does not conflict with the
Constitution of the United States, and that the tax thereby
imposed upon a foreign corporation operating a line of railway, partly within and partly without the State, is one within
the power of the State to levy.
So, in the case of Pittsburgh &o. Railway Co. v. -Backrus,
154 U. S. 421, the validity of a state tax law, whereby a railroad which traversed several States was valued for the purposes of taxation by taking that part of the value of the entire
road which was measured by the proportion of the length of
the particular part in that State to that of the whole road,
was upheld.
Our conclusion is that the Federal questions involved in the
case were properly decided by the court below, and its judg.
ment is accordingly

Afflrmed.

b

AIRn. JUSTICE HARLAN

TIOGA RAILROAD
LAKE

ERIE

AND

dissented.

COMPANY

WESTERN

V.

COAL

IPENNSYLVANIA.
AND

RAILROAD

NEW YORK,
COMPANY

V.

NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA AND OHIO RAILError to the Supreme Court
ROAD COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.
of the State of Pennsylvania. MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS delivered the
PENNSYLVANIA.

opinion of the court.

The foregoing cases, Nos. 264, 265, and 266,

October term, 1894, are, so far as the Federal questions involved

BENNETT v. HARKRADER.
Statement of the Case.

are concerned, precisely like case No. 263. They call for no additional consideration, and, for the reasons given in No. 263, the judgment of the court below in the several cases is
Affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

Mr. X. E. Olmsted for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James A. Stranahanfor defendant in error.

BENNETT v. HARKRADER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 58. Argued March 26, 27, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

The location certificate in this case, though defective in form, was properly
introduced for the purpose of showing the time when the possession
was taken, and to point out, as far as it might, the property which was
taken possession of.

The instructions complained of properly presented to the jury the two ultimate questions to be decided by it.
In Oregon a general verdict for the plaintiff, where the complaint alleges
that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of certain described property which is unlawfully detained by the defendant, and the possession
of which the plaintiff prays to recover, is sufficient.
WILLIAM Bennett, for himself and as the administrator of
M. Gibbons, deceased, having made application in the United
States land office at Sitka, Alaska, for a patent to what is
known as the Aurora lode mining claim, the defendant in
error, George Harkrader, filed an adverse claim in that office,
ant subsequently, under the authority of Rev. Stat., ยง 2326,
commenced in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Alaska this action in support of such claim. After
answer and reply, the case came on for trial and resulted in a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, to review which judgment the defendant sued out this writ of error. The plaintiff

