OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

tion whatever to the land nor asserted any ownership therein
after their departure. The record discloses another fact, that
when Virtue left Dakota City he placed his business affairs in
the hands of an agent, who attended thereto, and that taxes
were paid on certain lands in Dakota City as late as 1877 on
behalf of Virtue, while no attention was given to the land in
controversy. In the summer of 1888 the affidavit of Isaac
Harter, Jr., was filed in the county court, in the course of disposing of other real estate than this, to the effect that Isaac
Harter, upon his decease, had left no debts unpaid, and therefrom it also appeared that Isaac Harter died February 27,
1876, whereupon the clerk who had filed the affidavit obtained
a quitclaim from Virtue and set up this claim to the land.
The land, which was worth perhaps a hundred and twenty
dollars in 1858, had suddenly increased in value to about
twelve thousand dollars in 1888, chiefly within the year or two
preceding.
Under these circumstances we think the doctrine of laches
was applicable; that the claim was stale; and that no court
of equity would be justified in permitting the assertion of an
outstanding equity of redemption after such a lapse of time
'and in the entire absence of the elements of good faith and
reasonable diligence.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

COLVIN v. JACKSONVILLE.
iPPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 991.

Submitted May6, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

Where the jurisdiction of the court below is in issue, and the case is certified here for decision, the certificate must be granted during the term at
which the judgment or decree is entered.
IT a suit in equity to restrain the issue of bonds by a municipal corporation,

COLVIN v. JACKSONVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.
brought by a taxpayer, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is determined by the amount of the interest of the complainant, and not by the
amount of the issue of the bonds.

Tins was a bill filed by John H. Colvin, a citizen of the State
of Illinois, on May 8, 1894, against the city of Jacksonville,
Florida, and its mayor, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Florida, to enjoin and
restrain the issue, sale, delivery, pledge, or other disposition of
a certain issue of bonds to the amount of one million dollars.
By the act of Congress entitled "An act to change the boundaries of the judicial districts of the State of Florida," approved
July 23, 1891, 28 Stat. 117, c. 149, the county of Duval, in
which the city of Jacksonville is situated, was detached from
the Northern District of the State and attached to the Southern District thereof.
The bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court, December 4,
1894, for want of jurisdiction, and an appeal prayed and
allowed to this court, and, being docketed, the case was dismissed April 1, 1895, because of the absence of a certificate of
the Circuit Court in accordance with section 5 of the judiciary
act of March 3, 1891. Colvin v. Jacksonville, 157 U. S. 368.
Thereupon plaintiff prayed a second appeal, which was allowed, and a certificate on the question of jurisdiction to this
court signed, April 11, 1895, and the cause having been again
docketed was submitted as under the thirty-second rule.
.Mr. H. Bisbee for appellant.
.Mr. A. W. Cockrell for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that where the jurisdiction of the court
below is in issue and the case is certified to us for decision the
certificate must be granted during the term at which the judgment or decree is entered, by analogy to the statutory provisions on that subject which obtained in relation to certificates

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of division of opinion; Rev. Stat. §§ 650, 651, 652, 693, 697;
Maynard v. JIecid, 151 U. S. 324; and in view of the general
rule as to the inability of the court to deal with matters of this
sort after the expiration of the term; Hicl an v. City of Fort
Scott, 141 U. S.415 ; Morse v. Anderson, 150 JU. S. 156.
But we assume, though it is somewhat obscure, that the term
was still open when this certificate was signed. The certificate
is as follows:
"This cause came on to be heard upon a motion for an
injunction as prayed for in the bill of complaint and for the
appointment of a receiver.
"In the bill and amended bill filed herein complainant
alleged that he was a citizen of the State of Illinois; that he
owned property within the limits of the city of Jacksonville;
that the city was about to issue and sell bonds of said city to
the amount of one million dollars; that the amount of taxes
that would be assessed upon the property owned by him in the
city of Jacksonville, on account of the issue of said bonds, as
interest and sinking fund, would exceed two thousand dollars;
whereupon he prayed for an injunction and a receiver for any
such bonds as may have been issued.
"The answer filed denied that complainant was the owner
of taxable property upon which the amount of taxes which
would be levied as interest and sinking fund on account of the
issue of said bonds would exceed two thousand dollars, but
alleged that the only property owned by complainant which
would be liable to taxation by said city of Jacksonville was
but about $14,000, and the amount of taxes would not exceed
$2000, and upon a hearing upon the bills and answer and
affidavits in support of the allegations of the same, had upon
motion of the complainant, it was contended by the complainant that the property of said complainant would be liable to
taxation on account of the issue of said bonds to an amount
exceeding $2000, and it was further contended by complainant as a proposition of law that the amount of taxes that the
complainant would have to pay was not the amount in controversy, but that the total amount of issue of bonds, one million
of dollars, was the amount in controversy which would deter-

COLVIN v. JACKSONVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

mine the jurisdiction of this court, and upon said hearing as
aforesaid the court found as a matter of fact that the amount
of taxes which the complainant would be obliged to pay as
interest and sinking fund on account of the said proposed issue
of bonds would not exceed two thousand dollars, and as a matter of law that the interest which the complainant had in the
issue of bonds and not the amount of the entire issue thereof
was the amount in controversy, and found therefore that this
court had no jurisdiction of such controversy, and therefore
dismissed said complainant's bill.
"Now, therefore, it is certified that the question of the
jurisdiction of this court upon the grounds hereinbefore
stated, namely:
"1st. That the amount of the interest of the complainant
and not the entire issue of bonds was the amount in controversy; and,
"2d. That having found as a matter of fact upon a hearing had upon motion of the complainant upon bill and answer
and affidavits filed by each party that the interest of the complainant did not exceed $2000, it was the duty of the court
to dismiss the bill, is the only question of law upon the pleadings and process for the decision of the Supreme Court of
the United States."
We are confined in the disposition of the case to the certificate, from which it appears that the case was heard upon a
motion for an injunction and for the appointment of a receiver, on the bill and amended bill, answer, and affidavits.
And that the court found as matter of fact that the entire
amount of taxes which complainant would be obliged to pay
as interest and sinking fund on account of the proposed issue
of bonds would not exceed $2000, and thereupon dismissed
the bill for want of jurisdiction. It was contended by complainant that the amount of taxes he would have to pay was
not the amount in controversy, but that the total amount of
the issue of bonds was. But this contention was overruled,
and if the court did not err in that particular, and assuming,
as we must, that complainant's liability did not exceed $2000,
the decree of the court was right, since it was its duty, when

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

it appeared to its satisfaction that the suit did not really and
substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within
its jurisdiction, to proceed no farther, and to dismiss the case.
JMorris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315.
This leaves the only question to be considered whether the
amount of the interest of complainant, and not the entire
issue of bonds, was the amount in controversy, and, in respect
of that, we have no doubt the ruling of the Circuit Court was
correct.
In E Paso Water Company v. El Paso, 152 U. S. 157, 159,
which was a bill filed by the water company against the city
of El Paso for an injunction, it was alleged, among other
things, that if certain bonds were issued, the complainant
would be compelled to pay taxes on its property for the interest on the bonds and to provide a sinking fund for the
principal thereof, but the amount of the tax that would be
thereby cast upon complainant's property was not disclosed,
and we said upon the question whether there was a sufficient
amount in controversy to give this court jurisdiction: "The
bill is filed by the plaintiff to protect its individual interest,
and to prevent damage to itself. It must, therefore, affirmatively appear that the acts charged against the city, and sought
to be enjoined, would result in its damage to an amount in
excess of $5000. So far as respects the matter of taxes which,
by the issue of bonds, would be cast upon the property of the
plaintiff, it is enough to say that the amount thereof is not
stated, nor any facts given from which it can be fairly inferred." The case is in point and is decisive.
Brown v. Trousdale, 138 U. S. 389, 394, is not to the
contrary. There several hundred taxpayers of a county in
Kentucky, for themselves and others associated with them,
numbering about twelve hundred, and for and on behalf of all
other taxpayers in the county, "and for the benefit likewise
of said county," filed their bill of complaint against the county
authorities and certain funding officers, and all the holders of
the bonds, seeking a decree adjudging the invalidity of two
series of bonds aggregating many hundred thousand dollars,
and perpetually enjoining their collection; and an injunction

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD v. KEARNEY.

461

Syllabus.

was also asked as incidental to the principal relief against the
collection of a particular tax levied to meet the interest on the
bonds. The leading question here was whether the case had
been properly removed from the state court, and no consideration was given to the case upon the merits. As to the jurisdiction of this court, we said: "The main question at issue
was the validity of the bonds, and that involved the levy and
collection of taxes for a series of years to pay interest thereon,
and finally the principal thereof, and not the mere restraining
of the tax for a single year. The grievance complained of
was common to all the plaintiffs and to all whom they professed to represent. The relief sought could not be legally
injurious to any of the taxpayers of the county, as such, and
the interest of those who did not join in or authorize the suit
was indentical with the interest of the plaintiffs. The rule
applicable to plaintiffs, each claiming under a separate and
distinct right, in respect to a separate and distinct liability and
that contested by the adverse party, is not applicable here.
For although as to the tax for the particular year, the injunction sought might restrain only the amount levied against
each, that order was but preliminary, and was not the main
purpose of the bill, but only incidental. The amount in dispute, in view of the main controversy, far exceeded the limit
upon our jurisdiction, and disposes of the objection of appel,
lees in that regard."
Decree ajfirmed.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v.
KEARNEY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

TIlE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 314.

Argued April 26, 29, 1895. -Decided

May 27, 1895.

Reissued letters patent No. 5181, granted to Francis Kearney and Luke F.
Tronson December 10, 1872, for an improvement in spark-arresters, are
void for want of patentable novelty.

