OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

each entitled to enforce as against the other the sum of their
respective obligations, without reference to the amounts disbursed by them in the discharge of those obligations, then, as
the obligations assumed by Meserve towards Brown are equal
if they (1o not exceed the amount of the bond given by Brown,
the case is also at an end.
Judgment aflirmed.

WRIGHT AND WADE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

EASTERN
No. 766.

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Submitted December 10, 1894. -Decided

May 20, 1895.

On proof of the loss of the written authority issued by a marshal to a
deputy marshal whom he had appointed, parol evidence is admissible to
show the facts of the appointment and of the services of the deputy.
One acting as a de facto deputy by authority of the marshal comes within
the provisions of the act of June 9, 1888, c. 382, 25 Stat. 178, " for the
protection of the officials of the United States in the Indian Territory."
It is the obvious purpose of the act not only to bring within the jurisdiction
of the United States those who commit crimes against certain persons
therein enumerated, when engaged in the performance of their duties,
but also to bring within the same jurisdiction those committing offences

against such officials after they have ceased to perform their duties.

ON April 7, 1894, the Grand Jury of the United States

Circuit Court of the Fifth Circuit, Eastern District of TexaS,
presented an indictment against Sephus Wright and Thomas
Wade, late of the Choctaw Nation, and of Atoka County,
Indian Territory. The indictment charged that these parties
on January 9, 1894, "in Atoka County, in the Choctaw
Nation, in the Indian Territory, the same being annexed to
and constituting a part of the said fifth circuit, and annexed
to and constituting part of the Eastern District of Texas, for
judicial purposes, and being within the jurisdiction of this
court, did unlawfully, fraudulently, and feloniously, and with
their malice aforethought," etc., "murder one Mike Peter,"

WRIGHT AND WADE v. UNITED STATES.

233

Statement of the Case.

etc.; and after charging the commission of this crime in two
counts, it added: "And he, the said Mike Peter, had theretofore, to wit, on or about the 23d day of December, in. the
year of our Lord 1893, acted in the legal capacity of a posse
and guard for and in behalf of a certain deputy United States
marshal, for the Eastern District of Texas, to wit, William
Colbert, who was then and there lawfully empowered to
employ and deputize him, the said Mike Peter, in said capacity of posse and guard. And the said Mike Peter had theretofore at divers and sundry times acted in said capacity of
.posse and guard appointed, and empowered to so act by certain deputy marshals in and for said district. And by virtue
of his said employment in the said capacity of posse and
guard by the officers aforesaid, and by virtue of the laws of
the said United States, then and there valid and existing, he,
the said Mike Peter, was then and there entitled to the protection of the laws of the said United States of America."
On May 30, 1894, the case came on for trial, when the
defendants filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the court and a
motion to quash the indictment. The plea to the jurisdiction
was as follows:
" Now come the defendants in the above-entitled and
numbered cause, and for plea herein say that this court should
not further prosecute this suit, for the reason that this court
has no jurisdiction over the person, life, or liberty of these
defendants, and no jurisdiction to try and determine this
cause, for the reason that said defendants are all by blood
Chocta' Indians, living and residing in said Chocta' Nation,
Indian Territory; and that said offence is said to have been
committed in said Chocta' INation, Indian Territory; and
that the deceased, Mike Peter, at the time of the alleged killing, was a Chocta' Indian by blood, living and residing in
said Chocta' Nation, Indian Territory. That deceased at the
time of the alleged killing is not alleged in the ind. to have
been Indian agent or policeman appointed under the laws of
the United States, or was ever such officer, nor was he a
United States deputy marshal, or had he ever acted as such,
nor aposse coqnitatu8 guard killed while lawfully engaged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the execution of any of the United States processes; nor was
the said Mike Peter, at the time of the alleged killing, lawfully engaged in any duty imposed upon him as agent, policeman, deputy marshal, posse comitatus, or guard, or was he
ever at any time a United States officer, created by virtue of
the laws of the United States, by reason of which this court
could acquire jurisdiction over defendants."
The motion to quash was based on the following grounds:
"1st. Because said indictments fail to allege that Mike
Peter, the deceased, was acting as _posse or guard at the
time of the alleged killing, or an officer of the United States
government.
"2. Because said indictments fail to allege that the offence
for which these defendants stand charged was committed
within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of this court."
The court declined to act upon the plea to the jurisdiction,
for the reason that "it was dependent upon the facts of the
case, and would be submitted to the jury as other facts to be
proven and controlled by the charge of the court." Exception
was reserved to this ruling. The motion to quash was overruled, and exception was also reserved.
The trial then proceeded, and William Colbert was put
upon the stand and questioned as to whether he was or was
not a deputy marshal. Objection was made to this question
upon the ground that oral testimony was inadmissible to show
whether a person was or was not a deputy marshal, and Colbert was temporarily withdrawn from the stand, and J. J.
Dickerson was sworn. He testified, over objection, that he
had been the marshal of the district for the preceding four
years; that his commission was at Galveston, and he did not
have it with him; that he had appointed Colbert as one of
his deputies; that he had given him a commission as such;
that he had exacted a bond from some of his deputies but not
from others. Being asked if he knew whether an oath of
office had been administered to Colbert as a deputy marshal,
lie answered that he could not say, but that Colbert had acted
as a deputy for a long time, and had been his deputy up to
the time that his successor to the office of marshal had quali-

WRIGHT AND WADE v. UNITED STATES.

235

Statement of the Case.

fled. The clerk of the court testified that he had been such
since the establishment of the court in 1889 ; that he kept no
record of the oaths administered to deputy marshals, and that
none had ever been kept; that the appointment by the marshal of his 'deputies was placed on file, and the commission,
issued by the marshal, was given to the deputy, so that he
might have evidence of his appointment ; that he had looked
into the proper place where Colbert's appointment should be,
but could not find it. Colbert was then recalled, and was
allowed, over objection, to testify to his official position. He
said that he had been a deputy marshal under Dickerson
during his whole term of office, and had been regularly appointed by him and sworn by Captain Brooks, the clerk of
the District Court; that he was unable to produce the commission given him as evidence of his appointment, because he
had destroyed it at the expiration of Dickerson's term ; that
he was still a deputy marshal, having been reappointed by
Dickerson's successor. He also testified that Mike Peter, the
deceased, had acted for him as a posse man and guard at different times; that on one occasion, in December, 1893, Peter
had gone with him from Atoka in the Indian Country, to Paris,
Texas, a distance of one hundred and twenty-six miles, as a
guard over a person arrested for horse-stealing ; that, although
Peters had never served as a guard in bringing any one to
Paris, except on this one occasion, he was " working for him
all the time in looking up offenders;" that he, the deceased,
frequently helped him as a posse in making arrests, although
at the particular time when the killing occurred he was not
acting as a posse or guard. After the conclusion of the testimony the defendant requested the court to charge as follows:
"1st. The court instructs the jury that, as to whether or
not Win. Colbert at the time he appointed deceased as a _posse
man (if you believe he ever appointed him) was, at the time
of said appointment, a duly appointed and qualified deputy
marshal, is a material inquiry in this case, and unless you
believe, from the evidence, that said Colbert was appointed by
a United States marshal for the Eastern District of Texas,
and duly commissioned and the oath of office administered to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

him by any judge or justice of any state court within the same
district, or by any justice of the peace having authority
therein, or before any notary public duly appointed in .uch
State, then and in that event you will find the defendants not
guilty.
"2d. If the jury should believe from the evidence that the
oath of office was administered to Win. Colbert by Captain
Brooks, as clerk, then, and in that event, you are instructed
that the oath of office was not administered by any officer
authorized to administer oaths to United States deputy marshals, and you will find the defendants not guilty.
" 3d. Unless the jury should find from the evidence that
Win. Colbert was a United States deputy marshal, duly appointed, and had executed a bond as required by law, and that
the same had been filed and recorded in. the oflice of the clerk
of the District or Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Texas, you will find the defendants not guilty.
"4th. The court charges the jury that unless they find from
the evidence that Mike Peter was, at the time he was killed,
acting as guard or posse man for a legally qualified deputy
marshal, they will find the defendants not guilty.
"5th. Unless the jury find from the evidence that Wm.
Colbert was a duly qualified United States deputy marshal at
the time deceased, Mlike Peter, was acting as guard or posse
man for him, they will find the defendants not guilty.
"6th. If a reasonable doubt arises out of the evidence as to
whether Win. Colbert was a legally qualified United States
deputy marshal at the time deceased acted for him as guard
orposse man, they will find defendants not guilty."
All these requests were refused, and exceptions were duly
reserved.
It was admitted on the trial that both of the defendants
and the deceased were Choctaw Indians, living in the Choctaw
Nation at the time of the killing. After a verdict of guilty,
the defendants moved for a new trial, which motion was overruled, and the case was then brought here by error. The
assignments of error are eight in number, and complain of the
court's refusal to sustain the plea to the jurisdiction; of its

WRIGHT AND WADE v. UNITED STATES.

237

Opinion of the Court.

overruling the motion to quash; of error in permitting Dickerson and Colbert to testify to the appointment of the latter,
and in allowing Colbert to testify to his acts as deputy marshal, when it did not appear by record evidence that he had
been legally appointed, or that any oflicial copy of his oath
had been made; and they also aver that the court erred in
refusing the requests to charge, in leaving the question of
jurisdiction to the jury, and in overruling the motion for a new
trial.
INo appearance for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General W/dtney for defendants in
error.
. JUSTICE WITE,
opinion of the court.
M

after stating the case, delivered the

The accused, being Choctaw Indians, and the deceased having been a member of the same tribe, the jurisdiction or the
court depended upon the provisions of the act of Congress,
approved June 9, 188S, which is as follows:
"That any Indian hereafter committing against the person
of any Indian agent or policeman appointed under the laws of
the United States, or against any Indian United States deputy
marshal,_pos8C comitat8,s or guard, while lawfully engaged in
the execution of any United States process, or lawfully engaged in any other duty imposed upon such agent, policeman,
deputy marshal, posse co))i tatus, or guard by the laws ot the
United States, any of the following crimes, namely, murder,
manslaughter, or assault with intent to murder, assault, or
assault and battery, or who shall in any manner obstruct by
threats or violence any person who is engaged in the service
of the United States in the discharge of any of his duties as
agent, policeman, or other officer aforesaid within the Indian
Territory, or who shall hereafter comnmit either of the crimes
aforesaid in said Indian Territory against any person who, at
the time of the commission of said crime, or at any time pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

vious thereto, belonged to either of the classes of officials
hereinbefore named, shall be subject to the laws of the United
States relating"to such crimes, and shall be tried by the District Court of the United States, exercising criminal jurisdiction where such offence was committed, and shall be subject
to the same penalties as are all other persons charged with the
commission of said crimes, respectively; and the said courts
are hereby given jurisdiction in all such cases." Act of June
9, 1888, c. 382, 25 Stat. 178.
The averments of the indictment, if true, brought the case
clearly within the jurisdiction of the court. It was no error
to refuse to sustain the plea to the jilrisdiction, for its correctness depended upon the alleged existence of certain facts
which were not admitted. All the matters stated in the assignments of error, whether applying to the court's action
on the motion to quash, or in regard to the plea to the jurisdiction, or the objections to the admissibility of evidence, and
to the refusal to give the charges requested, really embrace
only two oints. 1st. Whether it was admissible to show
by parol the appointment and service of a deputy marshal,
and whether one can be considered a deputy marshal if sworn
in by the clerk of the District Court. 2d. Whether under
the act of Cougress, above referred to, the offence of killing
a posse man or guard, came within the jurisdiction of the
United States, if the killing occurred when the deceased was
not actually engaged in performing services.
Without expressing an opinion as to the necessity of issuing
a regular commission to a deputy marshal, or as to the authority of the clerk of the District Court to administer the
oath to such officer, it is clear that, on proof of the loss of the
written authority issued by the marshal to a deputy whom
le had appointed, it was permissible to offer oral evidence of
the fact of appointment and of the services of the deputy.
His appointment and service made him a de facto officer,
even if the clerk who administered the oath was not empowered to do so. Acting as de facto deputy by the authority of the marshal, he came clearly within the provision of the
statute of 1888, and is entitled to be considered as such dep-

WRIGHT AND WADE v. UNITED STATES.

239

Opinion of the Court.

uty for the purposes of that statute. Norton v. Siteihy Coutny,
118 U. S. 425, 445, 446 ; In re Manning, 139 U. S.504; Ball
v. United States 140 U. S. 118, 129.
The second contention is equally unsound. The obvious
purpose of the statute was not only to bring within the jurisdiction of the United States those who commit crimes against
certain persons therein enumerated, when engaged in the
performance of their duties, but also to bring within the
same jurisdiction those committing offences against such persons after they have ceased to perform their duties. The context of the law leaves no doubt on this subject, for it clearly
provides for two classes of crimes- offences committed
against the persons designated when performing their duty,
and like offences committed against such persons after they
have ceased to perform their official duties. It says: " That
any Indian hereafter committing against the person of any
deputy marshal, posse comitatus or guard, while lawfully engaged in the execution of any United States process, or lawfully engaged in any other duty imposed upon such deputy
marshal, posse comitatus or guard by the laws of the United
States, shall," etc. Then, in providing for the other contingency, it adds: "Or who shall hereafter commit either of the
crimes aforesaid in said Indian Territory against any person
who, at the time of the commission of said crime or at any
time previous thereto, belonged to either of the classes of
officials hereinbefore named, shall be subject to the laws of
the United States relating to such crimes, and shall be tried by
the District Court of the United States exercising criminal
jurisdiction where such offence was committed," etc. To hold
that offenders who commit the designated crimes against the
officers or agents named in the statute are only subject to its
provisions when the crime is committed against the officer
while actually engaged in performing his duty, would not
only destroy the letter of the law, but frustrate its obvious
purpose. That purpose was not only to secure the persons
therein named, when actually engaged in the discharge of
their duties, but also to protect them after their duties were
performed.
Judgment affirmed.

