OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Appellant.

is nothing in the record to impeach his action, and if the question were an open one, and to be tried de novo, there is in the
record no sufficient testimony to justify any other conclusion.
The situation is not dissimilar to that which would arise if
some religious organization should come into the city of
Washington and acquire title to a certain lot, and erect
thereon a building. No one would think of saying that
thereby it became the occupant of the city. Its occupation
would be limited to the lot it bought and placed its building
upon.
These considerations are decisive of this case. The decree
-of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

TEALL v. SCHRODER.
APPEAL

FROM

TUE1I

CIRCUIT

THE NORTHERN
No. 272.

COURT OF
DISTRICr

Arguod April 9, 1595.

TIE UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF CALIFORNIA.
1)ecided Muy 1, 1595.

When a power of attorney to sell and convey lands of the donor of the
power, duly executed, is placed on record in the State in which the lands
are situated, in the place provided by law for that purpose, and sales and
transfers of the lands covered by the power are made by the donee of
the power, and are in like manner placed on record, all persons interested,
whether residing in the State or elsewhere, are charged with the necessary knowledge on those subjects, and are held to all the consequences
following its acquisition.
'Whenever property is claimed by one owner, and lie exercises acts of ownership over it and the validity of such acts is not questioned by his iieighhors till after the lapse of many years when the statute of limitations
has run, and those who, for any apparent defects in the title to the property, would naturally be most interested in enforcing their claims, make
no objection thereto, a fair presumption arises, from the conduct of
the parties, that the title of the holders and claimants of the property is
correctly stated by theln.

TIle case is stated in the opinion.

iMr. II. M. Foole for appellants. Air. George 1i. Sears and
Ab,. F. P. Dewees were with him on his brief.

TEALL v. SCHRODER.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. S. F. Leib for appellees.
him on his brief.
Mn.

JUSTICE

-Mr.Al. . stee was with

FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California, by
Jane Af. Teall, Timothy 1-. Teall, and Harvey Benedict,
residents and citizens of the State of New York, against
A. Schroder and three hundred and thirty-four other defendants, residents and citizens of the State of California, to
enforce the transfer by them to the complainants of certain
lands described in the bill of complaint, situated in the city of
San Jos(, in that State, and represented as covering a large
part of the city. There are various charges made as to the
manner in which the defendants came into possession of the
property, imputing fraudulent conduct on their part, and
invoking the interposition of the equity powers of the court
for its correction.
The bill was filed on the 1st of June, 1889, and represents
that the complainants are residents and citizens of the State
of New York, and have never been in California, and that the
defendants are residents and citizens of California, that one
Oliver Teall, stated to be the ancestor of the complainants,
was, on the first day of August, 1857, the owner and in possession of certain real property, situated in the city of San Jos6,
county of Santa Clara in the latter State, more particularly
described as certain pieces or parcels of land and town lots,
designated by certain numbers in blocks, on the official map
or plat of the city ; and alleges that on the 2(d day of February, 1852, lie executed and delivered to one Davis Devine
an instrument of writing appointing him his attorney in fact,
and authorizing him in his, Teall's, name and to his use to
enter upon and take possession of all lands, tenements, and
hereditaments in the State of California to which lie then was
or niight thereafter become entitled, or in which lie was or
might become interested, and in his name to grant, bargain,
and sell, or to lease and demise the same, or any parcel thereof,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

for such sum or price as to him, Devine, might seem meet,
and to execute good and sufficient deeds of conveyance by
quitclaim for the same.
That power of attorney was duly acknowledged and filed
for record in the office of the recorder of the county of Santa
Clara on the 16th day of March, 1852, and has ever since
remained on the records of the county, and was unrevoked
and in full force until the death of Teall on the 12th day of
August, 1857.
The bill further alleges that prior to the first day of August,
1857, Devine, as attorney in fact of Teall and pursuant to the
authority thus vested in him, took possession of all the premises mentioned, and continued in possession thereof until his
death ; that in violation of the trust reposed in him, on a day
and date unknown to the complainants, but while in possession of the premises as the attorney in fact of Teall, he
caused the whole of the premises to be conveyed to himself in
the following manner, to wit: "Pretendin g to act as attorney
in fact of Teall, lie executed and delivered to one A. L. Rhodes
a deed of release and quitclaim of all of the premises, bearing
date as of the 1st day of August, 1857, and reciting a consideration of $5000, and that on the same day said A. L.
Rhodes, by a similar deed, with a similar consideration recited,
reconveyed all of the premises to Devine; that the conveyances were acknowledged on the 17th day of September, 1857,
and were recorded on the 8th day of October thereafter, and
have ever since remained on the records of the county of
Santa Clara."
The bill further alleges that the alleged conveyances, and
each of them, were fraudulent and void as to Oliver Teall and
those claiming under him ; that no consideration passed from
Rhodes to Devine, or from Devine to Rhodes therefor; that
the same were not authorized by Teall, nor was any consideration paid to him therefor, nor was any ratification thereof
ever made by him, but that the deeds were made solely for
the purpose of enabling Devine to deal with and dispose of
the property as his own, and to defraud Teall and those claiming under him out of the property.

TEALL v. SCHRODER.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill further alleges that on the 12th day of August,
1857, Teall died in the city of Syracuse, in the State of New
York, of which place lie had for many years been a resident;
and also upon information and belief, that the conveyances
from Devine to Rhodes and from Rhodes to Devine were not
executed upon the dates borne by them respectively, but were
executed after the death of Teall, on the 17th of September,
1857; that during all this time the premises were and still are
within the boundaries of the former pueblo of San Jose de
Gaudalupe, and are included in the pueblo and its successor,
the city of San Jos6, a municipal corporation organized under
the laws of California, and that the constituted authorities
thereof, by virtue of a grant of the Mexican government, made
prior to the cession of California to the United States, held the
premises in trust for persons in possession or entitled to the
possession thereof ; that on the 4th of June, 1884, letters
patent of the United States were issued to the mayor and
common council of the city of San Jos6, as the constituted
authorities of the city, for the premises under the trust mentioned, and that the legal title is now held by the patentee,
except as the same has been conveyed to others by those
authorities and their predecessors; that all the defendants,
except the mayor and common council of the city of San Jose,
have entered upon and are now in possession of portions of the
premises by virtue of conveyances from Devine made subsequently to the record of the conveyance to him by Rhodes.
It is apparent from the development of the facts in this case
that the allegations of fraud on the part of Rhodes and Devine,
as set forth in the bill, are made, not upon any knowledge of
facts, showing such fraud, by the complainants, but upon surmises or conclusions inferred by them from the circumstance
that no conveyance of the premises in controversy appears of
record from Devine to Oliver Teall after the execution by the
latter of the power of 'attorney to him, or to any other person
for Teall's benefit.
As appears from the admitted allegations of the bill and the
proceedings in the case, Oliver Teall, after the execution of
his power of attorney to Devine, but on what particular day

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

is not stated, removed from the State of California to Syracuse
in the State of New York, and there resided until his death
on the 12th of August, 1857. But it does not appear from
anything disclosed in the record or proceedings that he ever
revoked in the meantime the power of attorney to sell his
property, executed by him to Devine, or that Devine ever
communicated with the complainants respecting the property
of which he had been constituted an attorney in fact to sell or
lease, or that he made any sales or leases thereof for Teall or
remitted to him any money on their account. All that can
be learned from the record in this case is that after the departure of Teall from California to New York he never exercised
any control over any of the property, or made any improvements thereon or executed any leases or made any sales
thereof, or claimed any right to exercise any such control. It
appears that after his removal, Devine claimed to be the
owner of the premises in San Jos6, respecting which the
power of attorney purported to be issued, and managed and
controlled the same as absolute owner thereof, and, so far as
disclosed, that no one ever called in question his right as
owner. In the meantime, and during the several years of
Devine's residence in San Jos(, from 1.852 until his death in
1876, a period of twenty-four years, the city of San Jos6
greatly increased in population and wealth, front a small town
to a city of over 30,000 inhabitants, embracing many large
houses and public buildings, and was noted for the beauty of
its scenery, and the healthfulness of its climate. From these
advantages it naturally became an attractive place of residence in the State, and was the seat of many institutions of
learning. During this period the title of the city, which rested
upon an alleged Mexican grant of several leagues, was investigVated by the authorities of the United States, and finally confirmed under the act providing for the settlement of private
land claims in California, and a pateht of the United States
was issued to the municipal authorities of the city as the successors of the pueblo, for the lands embraced within its boundaries, and under such patent the title was vested in parties iii
possession of the property under conveyances from Devine

TEALL v. SCHIRODEi.
Opinion of the Court.

executed after the power of attorney was issued to him by
Teall. The titles conferred by such conveyances from the
pueblo authorities have always been respected and maintained.
Whilst the property in controversy, consisting of several hundred different parcels of land in the city of San Jos6, and county
of Santa Clara, remiained in the possession of Devine or parties claiming by conveyances from him, without any disturbance of their asserted title and any question of its validity, and
thirty-two years after the death of Teall and fourteen years
after the death of Devine, when the circumstances attending
the acquisition of the title to the property involved had passed
from the recollection of the; survivors or successors of the
claimants, consisting of numerous individuals, partnerships,
companies, and corporations, numbering in all three hundred
and thirty-seven defendants, the present suit was brought to
obtain a transfer to the complainants of the property held by
parties claiming under Devine, with allegations of fraudulent
conduct on the part of some of the parties, which we have
mentioned, the better to enable the complainants to invoke the
equity jurisdiction of the court for their protection.
To the bill the defendants, appearing in different sets, demurred, alleging as grounds of demurrer that more than thirtyone years had elapsed since the alleged causes of complaint
accrued to the complainants and those under whom they claim,
whereby the causes of complaint had become barred by the
statute of limitations of the State, and had also become stale
under the general rules of equity jurisprudence.
The law of the State creating the limitations, to which particular reference was made, is found in section nineteen of the
act defining the time for commencing civil actions, passed April
22, 1850 ; and in subdivision four of section. 338 of the Code
of Civil Procedure of California; and further, it was contended
that the alleged causes of complaint had become stale because
of the lapse of time, according to the general principles of
equity, and that the complainants had been guilty of laches in
failing to attempt the enforcement of the same at the proper
time, and it was insisted that so long a time had passed since
the matters took place, that it would be contrary to equity and
VOL. CLVII-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

good conscience for the court to take cognizance thereof, and
to require any answer to them. Section nineteen of the act
of April 22, 1850, reads as follows: "An action for relief, not
hereinbefore provided for, must be commenced within four
years after the cause of action shall have accrued." This section applies specifically to actions for equitable relief. Other
sections of the act provide for the limitation of actions at law.
Subdivision four of section 338 of the Code of Civil Procedure
is as follows: " An action for relief on the ground of fraud or
mistake must be brought within four years after the cause of
action accrues; the cause of action in such case not to be
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved
party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake."
The power of attorney from Teall to Devine was on record
from March, 1852, and open to the daily inspection of the complainants and of all parties interested in the title to the property. They could have ascertained, by inquiry, from Teall at
any time previous to his death, and from many others afterwards, the character of the title and the reasons why the property was allowed to remain in its then condition and under
the control of an attorney in fact of Teall. And the conveyances
from Devine to Rhodes and from Rhodes to Devine, which are
stated in the bill to have been made previous to August 1,
1857, were placed on record on the 8th of October, 1857, and
remained on record ever afterwards, open to the inspection of
all parties desirous of obtaining information respecting their
execution or the property to which they related. As the complainants and all other parties interested could have obtained
the necessary knowledge upon those subjects by proper inquiries, they are charged with such knowledge from the time
those conveyances were placed on record, and held to all the
consequences following its acquisition.
The court below was oF opinion that these grounds of demurrer were well taken, and sustained them, and ordered the
suit to be dismissed. From this decree sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the bill, the present appeal was brought to
this court.
Aside from the general considerations, upon which the dis-

TEALL v. SCHRODER.
Opinion of the Court.

missal of the suit must be maintained in a court of law or
equity, from the fact that the statute of limitations of California bars the action, whether brought at law or in equity, there
are other considerations arising upon the facts stated which
show that the complainants were barred from all relief when
this suit was instituted. It is evident that Devine considered
himself and acted as owner of the property, after the con veyance made to him by Rhodes, to whom he had conveyed the
same under the power of attorney from Teall.
Wherever property is claimed by one as owner, and he exercises acts of ownership over it, and the validity of such acts is
not questioned by his neighbors until after the lapse of many
years, when the statute of limitations has run, and those who,
for any apparent defects in the title of the property, would
naturally be most deeply interested in enforcing their claims,
make no objection thereto, a fair presumption arises, from the
conduct of the parties, that the title of the holders and claimants of the property is correctly stated by them.
In the present case it appears that Teall, represented as having the title, executed a power of attorney to his son-in-law,
Devine, and subsequently left the State of California and settled
in Syracuse, New York, leaving the property in the hands of
his son-in-law in California, who afterwards claimed to be the
owner thereof and exercised acts of ownership over it, unquestioned by any one, and no subsequent claim being made to the
ownership by Teall or by any relative of his, not even so far
as to pay or offer to pay any taxes on the property, and many
years having elapsed, covering the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations for instituting suits for its recovery, and
rights of property to large numbers having accrued thereunder,
it may be fairly presumed by the courts that the statement of
the party thus exercising unquestioned ownership was correct.
The holding of property under a claim of ownership for many
years operates to confer a title by adverse possession, which
the courts, in the interest of the pcace of the community and
of society generally, will not permit to be disturbed.
It is suggested, and the suggestion is a reasonable one, that
Devine was really the owner of the property, although, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

view of the many questions arising under the Mexican law as
to the actual condition of the title of the land covered by the
grant to the pueblo previous to its confirmation, he took the
precaution, which at the time was deemed wise, to act as
the attorney of the ostensible owner rather than as the actual
owner, and that subsequently a deed was transmitted to Teall
for execution, conveying the title in fee to Devine in the place
of the power of attorney. But, as stated, news of his sickness
having been received by Devine, it was thought best to convey the title to Rhodes, who subsequently could convey it to
Devine in case a deed was not received from Teall before his
death. This may seem to be a strained view of the case, but
considering the silence which Teall and his relatives observed
respecting the property, the refusal of every one who might
claim under him if he continued in possession of a valid title
to take part in any attempt to disturb Devine's title, and the
continued management and control of the property by the
latter for twenty-four years, it does not make the suggestion
at all improbable.
Whether this be true or not, the right of Devine, after so
many years of undisputed and notorious possession of the
property, with a claim of its ownership shuts out, under the
statute of limitations of California, the claims of all other
persons either to its possession or ownership.
Decree afrmed.

SAYWARD v. DENNY.
ERROR

rO

TIlE SUPREME

No. 951.

COURT

Or

THE STATE

Submitted April 22, 1895. -

OF WASHINGTON.

Decided Tty 6, 1895.

When the validity of no treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under,
the United States, nor of a statute of, or authority exercised under, any
State, is drawn in question by a state court, it is essential to the maintenance of jurisdiction here that it should appear that some title, right, privilege, or immunity under the Constitution or laws of the United States was
specially set up or claimed there, and that the decision of the highest

