BEARDSLEY v. ARK. & LOUISIANA RAILWAY.

123

Statement of the Case.

BEARDSLEY v. ARKANSAS AND LOUISIANA
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 199.

Submitted April 8, 1895. -Decided

May 6, 1895.

In equity causes all parties against whom a joint decree is rendered must
join in an appeal, if any be taken; and when one of such joint defendants takes-an appeal alone, and there is nothing in the record to show that
his codefendants were applied to and refused to appeal, and no order is
entered by court, on notice, granting him a separate appeal in respect
of his own interest, his appeal cannot be sustained.

PAUL F. Beardsley filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas against
John D. Beardsley and the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway
Company to enforce certain rights in the railway under certain alleged trusts, which resulted in a final decree, February
24, 1887.
The decree adjudged that complainant, Paul F. Beardsley,
pay to defendant J. D. Beardsley the sum of $7756.29 within
thirty days, with interest from December 24, 1886, and that,
upon such payment, defendant, J. D. Beardsley, convey and
deliver to complainant or his successors of record, or into the
registry of the court, one-third of the full paid stock of the
Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company, (less one-third of
eight shares issued to the directors,) which had been issued or
ought to have been issued to defendant J. D. Beardsley, and
which one-third amounted to seventeen hundred and four
shares of the face value of $100 each; and that at the same
time defendant John D. Beardsley deliver and convey to complainant or his solicitors, or into the registry, one-third of one
hundred and forty-four first mortgage bonds earned under a
construction contract between said defendant and the railway
company, but not certified nor held as collateral security, and
that as soon as said defendant received from tile St. Louis,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company two hundred
and forty first mortgage bonds of the Arkansas company, held
as collateral security, or as soon as the debt due the St. Louis
company had been paid, that he deliver to complainant onethird of these bonds. And it was further adjudged and decreed that the defendant John D. Beardsley had a lien on the
one-third interest sold by him to complainant in the stock and
bonds of the Arkansas company for the payment of the sum
of money herein adjudged to be due him from complainant,
and that if complainant should fail to pay that sum within
the time fixed, that a sale of complainant's interest in said
stock and bonds be made as directed, particulars relating
thereto being set forth. It was also decreed that defendant
John D. Beardsley pay all the costs of the proceedings except
the costs of such sale and the orders of court in pursuance
thereof, which were to be paid by complainant.
From this decree an appeal to this court was allowed J. D.
Beardsley, April 6, 1887, as of March 30, 1887, and the record
was filed herein September 27, 1887. The decree was affirmed
February 2, 1891. Beardsley v. Beardsley, 138 U. S. 262.
The present record discloses that on October 22, 1887, while
the appeal first mentioned was pending, Paul F. Beardsley
without leave, filed a supplemental bill making the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company a party with
the original defendants, J. D. Beardsley and the Arkansas
and Louisiana Railway Company. A motion to strike this
bill from the files was made and a demurrer and motion to
dismiss filed, but the supplemental bill was retained, an
amendment allowed to it making Jay Gould a party; the
demurrer overruled; the bill taken as confessed by the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company; issues made up on the
answers of J. D. Beardsley, the St. Louis company and Gould;
evidence taken; and the case went to final decree before
Caldwell, J., May 9, 1891.
It was thereby decreed that defendant J. D. Beardsley held
in trust for the use and benefit of the Arkansas and Louisiana
Railway Company certain described lands, and he was directed
within thirty days to execute and deliver to the railway com-

BEARDSLEY v. ARK. & LOUISIANA RAILWAY.

125

Statement of the Case.

pany a proper deed of conveyance thereof. Certain exceptions to a master's report were sustained, and the court ordered
that in all other respects the report be confirmed, and adjudged and decreed that the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway
Company have and recover of J. D. Beardsley the sum of
$21,072.16, with interest from August 5, 1889; and further,
that it appearing to the court that since the rendition of the
decree on the original bill the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway
Company had issued and delivered to defendant J. D. Beardsley certificates for all the full-paid and non-assessable stock of
the company ordered to be issued by the decree, thus making,
with the full-paid and non-assessable stock issued prior to the
decree, the aggregate amount of 5120 shares of the face value
of $100 each; and that the defendant John D., since the
rendition of the original decree, had sold and delivered to
defendant Jay Gould fifty-one per cent of the whole number of
shares of stock, and had delivered the remaining forty-nine per
cent to A. L. Hopkins, as trustee, in pledge for the use and benefit of Gould, which delivery and pledge were in violation of the
rights of complainant as adjudged in the original decree, upon
the payment by complainant of the amount adjudged on the
original bill to be due J. D. Beardsley, either to said J. D.
Beardsley or his solicitor, the said J. D. Beardsley and Gould
deliver and cause their trustee to deliver to complainant, or
to his solicitor of record, or into the registry of the court,
certificates for seventeen hundred shares of the stock of the
Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company, of the face value
of $100 each, of the stock so held by said trustee. It was
further ordered and decreed that upon payment by the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company of its debt to the defendant, St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company,
for which certain of the bonds of the Arkansas company were
held in pledge, and upon payment by complainant of his indebtedness to defendant J. D. Beardsley, the defendants J. D.
Beardsley, the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway
Company, the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company, and
Gould, and their trustee or trustees, deliver to complainant or
his solicitor eighty of the two hundred and forty first mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

gage bonds now held by the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and
Southern Railway Company or its trustee, as collateral security, and that the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company
after such payment cause to be duly and properly certified
forty-eight of the one hundred and forty-four earned, but
uncertified, bonds of said Arkansas and Louisiana Railway
Company, and deliver them to complainant or his solicitor.
It was further ordered and decreed that each and all of the
defendants be enjoined and restrained from carrying out any
of the terms or conditions of certain specified agreements
between J. D. Beardsley and Jay Gould, which in any manner
conflicted with the interests or rights of complainant, "as adjudged and declared in this decree or with the decree heretofore rendered on original bill." And it was decreed that
defendant J. D. Beardsley pay all the costs, including a part
of the fees theretofore paid to the master, and that the costs of
the receiver be paid by the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway
Company.
The record contains the following entry June 16, 1891:
"And now, on this day, comes the defendant John D. Beardsley, by J. M. Moore, Esq., his solicitor, and files his assignment
of errors, and prays an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States from the first decree rendered in this cause on
the ninth day of May, 1891; which prayer for appeal is
allowed." And on the same day J. D. Beardsley gave a
supersedeas bond in the sum of thirty thousand dollars, running to the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company alone,
and reciting that "whereas, the above-named John D. Beardsley hath prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States to reverse the judgment rendered against him
and in favor of the said Arkansas and Louisiana Railway
Company in the above-entitled action by the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, in
chancery;" which bond was that (lay approved by Williams, J.
. No citation was issued and served as far as appears, and the
record was filed in this court, June 22, 1891, the cause being
docketed under the title of "John D. Beardsley, Appellant, v.
Tlie A rkansas and Louisiana Railway Company."

BEARDSLEY v. ARK. & LOUISIANA RAILWAY.

127

Opinion of the Court.

Mrt. Joln _1. Moore and Mr. A. -I. Garlandfor appellant.
Mir. John J. Joyce and lMr. Edward 1L Mur)ky for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This appeal was perfected as to the Arkansas and Louisiana
Railway Company only by the giving of bond as required by
statute. Rev. Stat. §§ 1000, 1012. And while the omission
of the bond does not necessarily avoid an appeal, if otherwise
properly taken, and, in proper cases, this court may permit
the bond to be supplied, no application for such relief has
been made in this case, nor could it properly be accorded after
the lapse of nearly four years since the decree. The appeal
might, therefore, well be dismissed, because ineffectual as to
complain ant, Paul F. Beardsley.
But this must be the result on another ground. To the
decree, Paul F. Beardsley was party complainant, and John
D. Beardsley, the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern
Railway Company, Jay Gould, and the Arkansas and Louisiana Railway Company were parties defendant.
It is settled, for reasons too obvious to need repetition, that
in equity causes all parties against whom a joint decree is rendered must join in an appeal, if any be taken ; but this appeal
was taken by John D. Beardsley alone, and there is nothing
in the record to show that his codefendants were applied to
and refused to appeal, nor was any order entered by the court,
on notice, granting a separate appeal to John D. Beardsley in
respect of his own interest. The appeal cannot be sustained.
fIardee v. Wilson, 146 U. S. 179; Davis v. Mlercantile Co.,
152 U. S. 590.
-Atppeal dismissed.

