OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

A different conclusion is necessary as respects Mary White,
the mother, and Francis P. White, the adult son. The record
discloses that, on July 12, 1882, they filed a joint answer to the
bill filed May 24, 1882, in which they admitted the allegations
thereof ; and on September 12, 1882, their solicitor, Mr. Morris,
consented to the decree of that date. We perceive no proof
of fraud or collusion affecting them, and in their petition of
November 30, 1888, in which they prayed for leave to withdraw their answer, they do not aver that they were induced to
answer as they did by reason of any misrepresentation or fraud
practised upon them. The long delay of six years from the
filing of their answer, and of more than four years from the
bringing of the bill of review, is not satisfactorily explained, and,
upon well-settled principles, a court of equity must leave them
in the position in which they voluntarily placed themselves.
Tlie decree of the court below is reversed; the appellants,
-Mary White and JTyrancis P. White, and the appellees to
_pay one-half of the costs, respectively, and the cause remanded with directions to proceed in accordance with
this opinion.

KEYES v. EUREKA CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

THE NORTHERN
No. 228.

COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued April 15, 1895. -Decided

May6, 1S95.

A person in the employ of a smelting company invented a new method of
tapping and withdrawing molten metal from a smelting furnace. He
took out a patent for it, and permitted his employer to use it without
charge, so long as he remained in its employ, which was about ten years.
After that his employer continued to use it, and, when the patent was
about to expire, the patentee filed a bill against the company, praying
for injunctions, preliminary and perpetual, and for an accounting. Before the return of the subpoena the patent had expired. On the trial it
appeared that the invention had been used for more than seventeen years
with the knowledge and assent of the patentee, and without any coin-

KEYES v. EUREKA MINING CO.
Counsel for Appellee.
plaint on his part, except that the company had not paid royalties after
he quitted its employment. The defences were, (1) that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction of the case because no Federal question was involved
and there was no diversity of citizenship of the parties; (2) that, even if
there was a Federal question involved, the Circuit Court as a court of
equity had no jurisdiction of the case because complainants had a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law. The court below sustained both
of the defences and dismissed the bill. Held, that the decree was fully
justified.

Tins was a bill in equity filed by appellants against appellee
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California to recover for the infringement of a
patent. The patent, No. 121,385, bears date November 28,
1871, and was issued to appellants as joint inventors, the
invention consisting of a method of tapping or withdrawing
molten lead or other metals from a smelting furnace. The
bill was filed October 29, 1888, and contained the usual
prayer for an injunction, preliminary and perpetual, and for
an accounting for damages and for profits. The subpena
was issued on that day, returnable December 3, 1888, but no
notice was given of an application, nor was any application
made, for a preliminary injunction. Appellee answered January 7, 1889, and a replication was filed on the fourth of the
following February. No question was made as to the validity
or construction of the patent, and the patent does not appear
in the record. The defences were, (1) that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction of the case because no Federal question
was involved and there was no diversity of citizenship of the
parties; (2) that, even if there was a Federal question involved,
the Circuit Court as a court of equity had no jurisdiction of
the case because complainants had a plain, adequate, and coinplete remedy at law. The Circuit Court, Sawyer, J., sustained both of the defences and dismissed the bill, 45 Fed.
Rep. 199, whereupon the case was brought to this court on
appeal.
Mr. Robert E. Foot, with whom was Xr. John Flournoy on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. A. B. Browne for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. It. Miller, Mr. 2. 2. Estee, and Mr. D. Friedenrich filed a brief for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
As stated by the Circuit Court, when this patent was
applied for and issued, complainants were both in the employment of the defendant, one as superintendent of defendant's
mine, and the other as assayer and smelter at the mine and
smelting works, each receiving a regular salary. While thus
engaged they made the invention covered by the patent, and
on April 19, 1871, before the application for the patent, put
the improvement on the first furnace of defendant, and on
April 24, the date of the application, put it on the second furnace. These improvements were continuously used in defendant's works from that time on to the commencement of this
suit. Complainant Keyes left defendant's employment September 1, 1872, and complainant Arents on November 10,
1872. They were both aware of the use of the improvement
thereafter and down to the time the suit was commenced, and
it does not appear that Keyes had any communication with
defendant upon that subject, but complainant Arents notified
defendant's president in June, 1872, that the company could
use the improvement while he remained in its employment,
but that afterwards he would require the company to pay
what others had to pay for its use, and, subsequently to
November 10, 1872, Arents at various times made demands
upon the company's secretary for payment for the use of the
improvement, and in the summer of 1888 made a similar
demand upon the company's president. Defendant did not
contest the validity of the patent nor deny the use of the
improvement, but defended on the ground that no case for
equitable jurisdiction was presented upon the facts; and that,
moreover, it clearly appeared that defendant had an implied
license to use the invention without compensation while complainants continued in its employment, and to use it 'after they
left for the same royalties charged other parties; and, there-

KEYES v. EUREKA MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

fore, that the remedy of complainants was an ordinary action
at law, over which, as no diversity of citizenship appeared, the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction.
We think from an examination of the evidence that the
Circuit Court was entirely right in its conclusion that there
was at least an implied license to use the improvement upon
the same terms and royalties fixed for other parties from the
time complainants left defendant's employment while defendant was entitled to use the invention without payment of any
royalties during the continuance of such employment. And,
apart from that, that the decree cannot be reversed on the
ground that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing the bill
because when it was filed complainants were not entitled to
any relief resting on grounds of equity, while their remedy at
law, then and thereafter, was plain, adequate, and complete.
The jurisdiction in equity was predicated upon the right
to an injunction "according to the course and principles of
courts of equity."
Rev. Stat. ยง 4921. The subpona was
issued and served October 29, 1888, returnable on the first
Monday in December, which was December 3, 1888. The
patent expired November 28, 1888, between the day of service of subpoena and the return day, and before defendant
was required to or did file its answer.
No notice of an application for a preliminary injunction
was given, nor any application made therefor, nor was there
any showing on the pleadings or otherwise of irreparable
injury to the complainants by the continued use of the invention for twenty-nine days after the bill was filed and before
the expiration of the patent. Such a contention after seventeen years of use by appellee with appellants' knowledge
would have been absurd, and even if appellants had applied
for a preliminary injunction before the return day, the court
would have been justified in refusing to award it. Obviously,
the laches of appellants were such, upon their own showing,
for the delay was unexplained, as to disentitle them to a
preliminary injunction, as ruled by Mr. Justice Brewer, when
Circuit Judge, in 2iicLaug/dig v. People's Railroad 21 Fed.
IRep. 574, and by Judge Blodgett in American Cable Railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Chicago City Railway Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 522. See also
Keyes v. Pueblo Smelting Co., 31 Fed. Rep. 560.
This record discloses that the invention had been used for
more than seventeen years with the knowledge and assent of
appellants and without any complaint on their part, except
that appellee had not paid royalties after complainants quit
its employment. This being so, the case clearly falls within
Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189; Clark v. Wooster, 119
U. S. 322; and Lane d Bodley Co. v. Locke, 150 U. S. 193;
and the decree was fully justified.
In Clark v. Wooster, Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the
opinion of the court, said: "As to the first point, the bill
does not show any special ground for equitable relief, except
To this the plaintiff was
the prayer for an injunction.
entitled, even for the short time the patent had to run, unless
the court had deemed it improper to grant it. If, by the
course of the court, no injunction could have been obtained in
that time, the bill could very properly have been dismissed,
and ought to have been. But by the rules of the court in
which the suit was brought only four days' notice of application for an injunction was required. Whether one was applied
for does not appear. But the court had jurisdiction of the
case, and could retain the bill, if, in its discretion, it saw fit to
do so, which it did. It might have dismissed the bill, if it
had deemed it inexpedient to grant an injunction; but that
was a matter in its own sound discretion, and with that discretion it is not our province to interfere, unless it was exercised
in a manner clearly illegal."
In whatever aspect viewed, we perceive no ground for disturbing the decree.
Decree affirmed.

