IN RE AMENDMENT TO RULE 39
Per Curiam

IN RE AMENDMENT TO RULE 39
No. -

.

Decided April 29, 1991

This Court's Rule 39 is amended to provide the Court with some control
over frivolous or malicious in forma pauperis filings. Damages and
costs are ineffective to deter such filings, as informa pauperis status is
conditioned on an affidavit or declaration that the petitioner is financially
unable to pay fees or post security. The Rule applies only to those
filings that the Court determines would have been denied in any event
and permits a disposition of the matter without the Court issuing an
order granting leave to proceed in forma pauperis.
Rule amended.
PER CURIAM.

We are ordering an amendment to this Court's Rule 39 respecting proceedings informa pauperis.
Filings under our paid docket require a not-insubstantial
filing fee, currently $300, and compliance with our printing
requirements. See Rules 33 and 38. These Rules serve as
some disincentive to frivolous paid filings. Furthermore, we
have the ability to exercise control over the paid docket
under Rule 42.2, which provides for award of "just damages
and single or double costs" in the case of a frivolous filing.
See Hatch v. Reliance Ins. Co., 474 U. S. 1048 (1986); Hyde
v. Van Wormer, 474 U. S. 992 (1985). These controls are not
effective with reference to proceedings in forma pauperis.
It is vital that the right to file in forma pauperis not be
encumbered by those who would abuse the integrity of our
process by frivolous filings, particularly those few persons
whose filings are repetitive with the obvious effect of burdening the office of the Clerk and other members of the Court
staff. In order to preserve meaningful access to this Court's
resources, and to ensure the integrity of our processes, we
find it necessary and advisable to promulgate this amendment to Rule 39, to provide us some control over frivolous or
malicious in forma pauperis filings. Sanctions of damages
and costs are ineffective to deter such filings as informa pau-

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

500 U. S.

peris status is conditioned on an affidavit or declaration that
the petitioner is financially unable to pay fees or post security. See 28 U. S. C. § 1915(a) and this Court's Rule 39.1.
This amendment makes clear that to protect itself from abusive filings the Court may enter orders similar to those entered by the lower federal courts for almost 100 years pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 1915(a) and (d), and their predecessors.
See Act of July 20, 1892, ch. 209, § 4, 27 Stat. 252.
The Rule applies only to those filings that the Court determines would be denied in any event and permits a disposition
of the matter without the Court issuing an order granting
leave to proceed in forma pauperis.
Rule 39 of the Rules of the Supreme Court of the United
States is amended to add the following:
"39.8 If satisfied that a petition for a writ of certiorari,
jurisdictional statement, or petition for an extraordinary
writ, as the case may be, is frivolous or malicious, the
Court may deny a motion for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis."
In order to ensure adequate notice to all litigants, the Rule
will become effective on July 1, 1991.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE MARSHALL,

dissenting.

This Court's rules now embrace an invidious distinction.
Under the amendment adopted today, an indigent litigant
may be denied a disposition on the merits of a petition for
certiorari, jurisdictional statement, or petition for an extraordinary writ following a determination that the filing "is
frivolous or malicious." Strikingly absent from this Court's
rules is any similar provision permitting dismissal of "frivolous or malicious" filings by paying litigants, even though
paying litigants are a substantial source of these filings.

IN RE AMENDMENT TO RULE 39

13

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

This Court once had a great tradition: "All men and women
are entitled to their day in Court." * That guarantee has
now been conditioned on monetary worth. It now will read:
"All men and women are entitled to their day in Court only if
they have the means and the money."
I dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE BLACKMUN joins,
dissenting.
In my opinion it is neither necessary nor advisable to promulgate the foregoing amendment to Rule 39. During my
years of service on the Court, I have not detected any significant burden on the Court, or threat to the integrity of its
processes, caused by the filing of frivolous petitions. It is
usually much easier to decide that a petition should be denied
than to decide whether or not it is frivolous. Moreover, the
cost of administering the amended Rule will probably exceed
any tangible administrative saving. Transcending the clerical interest that supports the Rule is the symbolic interest
in preserving equal access to the Court for both the rich and
the poor. I believe the Court makes a serious mistake when
it discounts the importance of that interest. I respectfully
dissent.

*Our inviolable obligation to treat rich and poor alike is echoed in the
oath taken by each Justice prior to assuming office. See, e. g., 389 U. S.
ix:
"I. ..do solemnly swear that I will administer justice without respect to
persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich, and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties incumbent upon
me as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States according to the best of my abilities and understanding, agreeably to the Constitution and laws of the United States." (Emphasis added.)

