36

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

case. We accordingly reverse the judgment of the court
below and remand the case to it for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MiR. JUSTICE JACKSON

concur in the result.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE and MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS are
of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.

DEMOREST ET AL. v. CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST
CO., TRUSTEE, ET AL.
NO. 52.

APPEAL FROM THE SURROGATE)S COURT OF NEW
YORK COUNTY, NEW YORK.*

Argued December 10, 1943.-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. Subdivision 2 of § 17-c of the Personal Property Law of the State
of New York which, where there is no express provision in the will
or trust, in respect of salvage operations (uncompleted at the date
of the enactment) of mortgaged properties acquired by a trustee by
foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure, prescribes a rule for
apportionment of the proceeds between life tenant and remainderman, held-as against the claim of remaindermen that the statute
deprives them of property without due process of law, in that the
statutory rule is less favorable to remainder interests than were rules
theretofore existing-not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Federal Constitution. P. 48.
2. Decisions of the New York Court of Appeals prior to the enactment
of subdivision 2 of § 17-c, held not to have established a rule of
property whereby the remaindermen here acquired any vested
rights. P. 42.
289 N. Y. 423, 46 N. E. 2d 501, affirmed.
290 N. Y. 885,50 N. E. 2d 293, affirmed.
*Together with No. 227, Dyett, Special Guardian,v. Title Guarantee
& Trust Co. et al., also on appeal from the Surrogate's Court of New
York County, New York.

DEMOREST v. CITY BANK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

36
APPEALS

from decrees, entered on remittitur from the

Court of Appeals of New York, which sustained the constitutionality of subdivision 2 of § 17-c of the Personal Property Law of the State of New York.
Mr. FrancisJ. Mahoney, with whom Mr. GeraldP. Culkin was of counsel, for appellants in No. 52; and Mr. James
N. Vaughan, with whom Mr. Thomas B. Dyett was on the
brief, and Mr. EdwardG. Griffin was of counsel, for appellant in No. 227.
Mr. C. Alexander Capron, with whom Mr. Charles
Angulo was of counsel, for the City Bank Farmers Trust
Co., Trustee; and Mr. Albert Stickney for Emma M.
West,--appellees in No. 52. Mr. Louis J. Merrell for
appellees in No. 227.

MIR. JusTIcE JAcs v delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellants in these two cases challenge the constitutionality of Subdivision 2 of § 17-c of the Personal Property
Law of the State of New York, approved April 13, 1940.1
1

N. Y. Laws 1940, c. 452, p. 1182. The subsection provides:
"2. The existing rules of procedure applying to salvage operations
respecting existing mortgage investments are continued except as
modified by the subparagraphs hereinafter set forth. The terms and
rules of procedure of this subdivision shall apply specifically (a) to
the estates of persons dying before its enactment and (b) to mortgages on real property held by a trustee under a deed of trust or
other instrument executed before the date of its enactment and (c) to
real property acquired by foreclosure of mortgage or real property
acquired in lieu of foreclosure before or after the date of its enactment in trusts created or mortgage investments made prior thereto,
and (d) to any pending proceeding or action for an accounting of the
transactions of an executor or trustee.
"(a) Net income during the salvage operation up to three per
centum per annum upon the principal amount of the mortgage shall
be paid to the life tenant, regardless of principal advances for the
expenses of foreclosure or of conveyance in lieu of foreclosure and

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Because of retroactivity it is said to offend the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution by taking for benefit of income beneficiaries property to which the appellants as beneficiaries of principal
arrears of taxes and other liens which occurred prior to such foreclosure or conveyance and the cost of all capital improvements. Any
payment of net income heretofore or hereafter made to the life
tenant up to such three per centum per annum shall be final and
shall be not subject to recoupment from the life tenant or as a surcharge against the trustee or executor. The amount of all such
payments shall be taken into account, however, in the apportionment of the proceeds of sale and shall be charged against the share
of the life tenant.
"(b) The foregoing principal advances shall be repaid out of
excess net income above such three per centum per annum. When
principal advances have been satisfied, any excess income shall be
impounded (subject to reinvestment under the terms of the will or
deed) to await sale and apportionment.
"(c) The unpaid principal advances shall be a primary lien upon
the proceeds of sale and shall be paid first out of any cash so derived.
If insufficient the balance shall be a primary lien upon any purchase
money mortgage received upon the sale.
"(d) The purpose of the enactment of this subdivision is declared
to be the simplification of the rules of procedure in mortgage salvage
operations and the elimination of present complications which work
to the disadvantage of the life tenant, who is usually the principal
object of the testator's or settlor's bounty, by depriving him of a
fixed right to the actual payment of any net income earned by the
property. Such fixed right is granted in lieu of the discretion now
given to the trustee to pay net income or any part thereof to the
life tenant. The general rules of the apportionment of the proceeds of sale between life tenant and remainderman are retained subject to the express modifications made herein. Only equitable adjustments and balances as between the parties are intended to be
effectuated by the provisions of this subdivision. If any provision
of this subdivision or the application thereof to any mortgage or
acquired property by foreclosure or conveyance, or to any trust is
held invalid, the remainder of the subdivision and the application
of such provision to any other mortgage or property acquired by foreclosure or conveyance or other trust shall not be affected thereby."

DEI\OREST v. CITY BANK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

36

claim vested rights. It is asserted, also, to deny equal protection of the laws.
The facts in No. 52 are these: Henry West died in 1934.
His will, so far as concerns us, left a residuary estate in
trust. Net income less certain payments to a brother was
given to his wife during her life or widowhood. Thereafter, subject to certain further trusts, the residue was to
go to contingent remaindermen, among whom are the
appellants.
At death West owned a number of mortgages. Owing to
defaults, titles to nine of the underlying properties were
acquired either by foreclosure sale or by deed in lieu
thereof, and held in separate accounts as assets of the trust.
The trustee's accounting disclosed that two such salvage
operations were completed by sale of the properties prior
to the enactment of § 17-c of the Personal Property Law.
No distribution had been made of the proceeds. Objections on behalf of remaindermen questioned the validity of
the statute as applied to apportioning such proceeds between income and principal. Surrogate Foley, however,
upheld the statute and resolved the apportionment under
its terms. His decree was unanimously affirmed by the
Appellate Division of the Supreme Court for the First
Judicial Department and thereafter was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals, two judges dissenting. Matter of West,
289 N. Y. 423, 46 N. E. 2d 501. The case is brought here
by appeal.
In No. 227, Auguste Schnitzler died in 1930, leaving
a will which put her residuary estate in trust with the
income payable to a sister for life. The income beneficiary died in 1939. Salvage operations had begun in the
lifetime of the beneficiary and were completed after her
death. Surrogate Delehanty found that operation of the
statute "resulted over the whole salvage period in taking
for income account more than the whole of what the
property earned in that period. The deficit in so-called
576281-44-7

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

'income' was made up by taking principal, of course."
He considered the result "startling" but settled the accounts under the statute, leaving its validity to be determined by appellate courts. The Court of Appeals affirmed without opinion on the authority of Matter of West
and the case comes here by appeal.
The grievance of remaindermen in these cases is not
that they have suffered loss or deprivation of any specific property to which they had legal title. Under the
law of New York the whole legal estate vests in the trustee
for purposes of the trust,2 including title to mortgages and
to real estate acquired upon or in lieu of their foreclosure,
which becomes personalty for the purposes of the trust.'
Where the instrument creating the trust directs payment
of income to one set of beneficiaries and corpus to another,
allocation of receipts and disbursements as between capital and income is sometimes attended with difficulty.
Mortgage investments may be imperiled by default in
interest only, or payments of principal alone, or of both,
but in either event both income and capital interests require protection. Advancements often must be made to
remove tax liens or other prior charges, pay costs of foreclosure, make property tenantable, or take care of operating losses, watchmen, or insurance. On final sale the price,
together with rentals, may leave either a loss or a profit,
and to forego income for a period may result in a better
sale of the capital asset. The variety of circumstances
under which trustees are called upon to allocate items between capital and income are innumerable in salvage
operations, the will rarely provides guidance, and the
wisest and most faithful trustee is unable to draw the line
with any great assurance. Either the income beneficiary
2 Knox v. Jones, 47 N. Y. 389; Bennett v. Garlock, 79 N. Y. 302.
Cf. 1 Scott on Trusts, p. 3.
3Lockman v. Redly, 95 N. Y. 64.

DEMOREST v. CITY BANK CO.
36

Opinion of the Court.

or the remaindermen may challenge his accounts, for they
have equitable interests which chancery will enforce that
the trust be administered diligently and faithfully according to the will and the law. The flood of issues as to
allotment of receipts and disbursements to capital or income account, following the depression, led the Court of
Appeals to attempt to clarify the chancery rules on the
subject for better guidance of trustees and the courts that
supervise them.' When this was only partially successful, the problem of clarification was carried further by
legislation. The remaindermen claim an unconstitutional
taking of their property results from this legislative enactment of rules for distribution as between income and capital beneficiaries of trust property involved in salvage
operations, because they are less favorable to the remainder
interests in these cases than the rules they claim otherwise
would have applied.
Appellants' contention is that the New York Court of
Appeals established a rule of apportionment of proceeds
of salvage operations of mortgaged property as between
income and principal which became a settled rule of property under which property rights vested in them prior to
accounting by the trustees. This, they say, was accomplished by the decisions in Matter of Chapal, 269 N. Y.
464, 199 N. E. 762 (1936), and Matter of Otis, 276 N. Y.
101, 11 N. E. 2d 556 (1937). The Court of Appeals,
however, in one of the present cases holds to the contrary,
saying that those opinions represent tentative judicial
efforts to guide the discretion of trustees; that they did
not establish rules of property; and that the legislature
appears to have done no more than to direct trustees to
do what they already had discretion to do, in which case
In New York, power to "direct and control the conduct, and settie the accounts" of trustees is allotted to the Surrogate's Court.

Surrogate's Court Act § 40 (3).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

remaindermen could not have insisted upon their being
surcharged under the law before the enactment.
In thus rejecting appellants' version of its previous
decisions the Court of Appeals disposed of their cases on
the ground that appellants have never possessed under
New York law such a property right as they claim has
been taken from them. If this is the case, appellants have
no question for us under the Due Process Clause. Decisions of this Court as to its province in such circumstances
were summarized in Broad River Power Co. v. South
Carolina,281 U. S. 537, 540, as follows: "Whether the
state court has denied to rights asserted under local law
the protection which the Constitution guarantees is a
question upon which the petitioners are entitled to invoke
the judgment of this Court. Even though the constitutional protection invoked be denied on non-federal
grounds, it is the province of this Court to inquire
whether the decision of the state court rests upon a fair
or substantial basis. If unsubstantial, constitutional obligations may not be thus evaded. But if there is no
evasion of the constitutional issue, and the non-federal
ground of decision has fair support, this Court will not
inquire whether the rule applied by the state court is
right or wrong, or substitute its own view of what should
be deemed the better rule, for that of the state court." 5
Despite difference of opinion within the Court of Appeals as to the effect of its earlier cases, we think that the
decision of the majority that they did not amount to a
See same case on rehearing, 282 U. S. 187, and Sauer v. New
York, 206 U. S. 536, 546; Leathe v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93; Vandalia R.
Co. v. Indiana, 207 U. S. 359, 367; Enterprise Irrigation Dist. v.
Farmers Mutual Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 164; Ward v. Love County,
253 U. S. 17, 22; Fox River Paper Co. v. Railroad Commission, 274
U. S. 651, 655. Compare United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 278 U. S. 300, 307; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270 U. S.
378,387.

DEMOREST v. CITY BANK CO.
36

Opinion of the Court.

rule of property does rest on a fair and substantial basis.
The opinion in the Otis case had indicated a tentative
quality in its pronouncements, saying: "Perhaps it should
be added that a general rule for such situations cannot be
attained at a bound, that no rule can be final for all
cases and that any rule must in the end be shaped by considerations of business policy. Accordingly, we have here
put aside inadequate legal analogies in the endeavor to
express fair, convenient, practical guides that will be
largely automatic in their application. Only the sure
result of time will tell how far we have succeeded." And
the opinion had pointed out that the disbursement of
net income during salvage operations was left to the discretion of the trustee with the admonition that the discretion "should be exercised with appropriate regard for the
fact that unless a life tenant gets cash he does not get
anything in the here and now." 276 N. Y. 101, 115.
The executive committee of the Surrogates' Association of the State of New York, composed of the judicial
officers immediately charged with application of these
decisions to the instruction of and accountings by trustees
held a similar view of the discretion left to trustees. The
legislature appears to have been of the same mind in
adopting the new legislation.' The judicial effort was
"When it was introduced into the legislature, the bill proposing

§ 17-c carried the following explanatory note by the Surrogates'
Association:
"This amendment is proposed by the executive committee of the
Surrogates' Association of the state of New York. Its general purposes are:
"(1) To simplify the complicated rules restated in Matter of Chapal
(269 N. Y. 464) and in Matter of Otis (276 N. Y. 101) relating to
mortgage salvage operations (a) in existing trusts as to mortgages
hereafter acquired as a trust investment and (b) in testamentary
trusts created by the will of decedent dying after its enactment and
(c) in inter vivos trusts created by an instrument executed after its

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

to formulate general rules to guide fiduciary discretion.
The Chapal decision was rendered in response to a trustee's petition for instructions. But while such decisions
were useful as precedents, they were felt not adequate to
enactment. Such simplification is provided in the first subdivision
of the new section.
"In recent years section 17-a of the Personal Property law was enacted to avoid the difficult problems of the allocation of stock dividends received during the period of a trust. Under that section they
are now allocated wholly to capital. Section 17-b of the Personal
Property law was enacted to abolish the intricate rule in Matter of
Benson (96 N. Y. 499) under which it was necessary to capitalize the
income on monies held within the estate for the payment of administration expenses, debts, taxes and pecuniary legacies. In line with
this policy the proposed legislation contained in the first subdivision

abolishes, in the instances stated above, the Chapal-Otis rules, and will
substitute a simple form of the treatment of the foreclosed real property as a principal asset of the trust. It is to be treated just as a railroad bond upon which default in interest before sale has occurred.
"(2) Further modifications are proposed by the second subdivision
of the section as to mortgage investments already made in existing
trusts. The present rules for apportionment between life tenant and
remainderman under the Chapal-Otis cases are continued as to existing
trusts where the investment in a mortgage has been made, with modification thereof in two specific instances.
"(a) The Chapal-Otis rule authorizes the trustee to pay surplus
net income in his discretion. Trustees have hesitated to pay such net
income because in the case of overpayment to the life tenant, the
trustee might be surcharged with that amount. The life tenant of
the trust must wait in the majority of cases for a long period of time
before he becomes entitled to the payment of any income, because
of the present requirement that advances from principal for the expenses of foreclosure and for arrears of taxes and other liens must first
be paid from the net income of the property. The amendment provides for the immediate payment of income to the life tenant beginning with the date of the acquisition of the property by the trustee
by foreclosure or conveyance in lieu of foreclosure. Under the new
provisions net income up to three per centum of the face amount
of the mortgage is so payable. Under the Chapal-Otis rules the life
tenant is entitled in the final apportionment to the inclusion of interest at the mortgage rate during the period of the salvage opera-

DEMOREST v. CITY BANK CO.
36

45

Opinion of the Court.

protect trustees against the hazards of litigation in particular cases, and the avowed effort of the court to adapt
the law to the situation resulting from the depression
failed in practice. 7 Hence the legislature intervened,
tion. The rate of three per centum in the new section has been
recommended as a fair return to the life tenant and at the same time
a protection to the remainderman in the event that the property is
sold at less than the face amounts of the income and principal shares
employed at the ratio of the apportionment. (b) Surplus net income above three per centum is to be applied to the payment of advances from principal until the amount of such advances are satisfied.
When the property in the salvage operation is sold, the unpaid balance
of principal advances must be satisfied first out of the cash received
from the sale. If there be any unpaid balance due for principal advances, it is made a primary lien upon the purchase money mortgage. The amendment further directs that after principal advances
have been paid, the surplus net income above three per centum, accruing during the salvage operation, shall be held by the trustee to await
sale and apportionment under the Chapal-Otis rules." N. Y. Laws
1940, p. 1181.
7 Surrogate Foley in the Demorest case states the effect of this Act
as follows (Matter of West, 175 lisc. 1044, 1048, 26 N. Y. S. 2d 622):
"Two relatively simple modifications of the Chapal-Otis rules were
made in this subdivision. Under those rules and particularly under
the language of the opinion of Judge Loughran in Matter of Otis
(supra), a discretionary power was given to a trustee during a mortgage salvage operation to disburse income to the life tenant, after advances made from principal as an incident to the acquisition of the
property had been repaid. It was found, however, that trustees hesitated to make any payment to the life tenant or to exercise the judicial discretion given to them by Matter of Otis, because of the fear
of a possible surcharge in the event of an overpayment to the life
tenant. The life tenant in almost every instance was the primary object of the testator's bounty. The beneficiary intended to be most
favored was thus deprived, by the trustee's inaction or hesitancy, of
receiving income during the entire salvage period and large sums
of money were accumulated and frozen. The injustice to the life
tenant was aggravated by the fact that because of the lack of a ready
market for the resale of the property, the salvage operation was unduly extended for a long period of years. This situation is emphasized by the facts revealed in the present proceeding. Of the seven

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

adopted a rule which the trustee might have applied before, in its discretion, and prescribed it as a definite standard for setting apart income, protecting trustees against
liability to remaindermen if they followed it. What apmortgages now involved in the salvage operations in which no resale
has taken place, the longest period of operation has been six years
and two months. The shortest period has been four years and ten
months. Thus the average period of operation of all seven mortgages has been approximately five years. In the two completed operations the periods of salvage were two years and six months and
two years and eight months. This unhappy situation has been corrected by the new legislation. Trustees are expressly authorized to
pay promptly net income derived from the foreclosed or acquired
property up to three per centum per annum upon the face amount of
the mortgage. From the time of the passage of the new act, it has
been the practical experience and observation of the surrogates that
hundreds of thousands of dollars which had been theretofore accumulated, were paid out to life tenants upon the authority granted by
the statute. Where the trustee had paid the yearly income up to the
three per cent maximum to the life tenant, the statute made the
payment final. It was specifically stated by the Legislature that such
payment up to the maximum was 'not subject to recoupment from
the life tenant or as a surcharge against the trustee or executor.'
Moreover, under the new statutory rule, net income up to the maximum of three per cent became payable from the very beginning of the
salvage operation, that is, from the date of acquisition by foreclosure
or by deed in lieu of foreclosure.
"The other amendment to the Chapal-Otis rules made by the second
subdivision of the new section in the balancing of the equities, furnished protection to the remaindermen interested in the principal of
the trust. Excess net income earned in any one year during the salvage operation above the three per cent maximum payable to the life
tenant, was directed to be applied to advancements from principal
for arrears of taxes and other liens which accrued prior to the foreclosure or acquisition in lieu of foreclosure and to the cost of capital
improvements. Where any balance of unpaid principal advances
remained due at the close of the salvage operation, such balance was
declared to be 'a primary lien upon the proceeds of sale and shall be
paid first out of any cash so derived. If insufficient the balance shall
be a primary lien upon any purchase money mortgage received upon
the sale'"

DEMOREST v. CITY BANK CO.
36

Opinion of the Court.

pears really to have been taken from the remainderman is
his right to question the equity of the rule in his individual
circumstances, a right which he had while it was a rule of
the court. In the case of the Schnitzler trusts where the
rule results in invasion of the remainderman's principal
to make good to the life beneficiary the statutory allowance of income, Surrogate Delehanty implied, and no one
has denied, that the flexibility of the former rule would
probably have resulted in a surcharge of the trustee's
accounts, and hence that the remainderman has been
deprived of the value which benefit of the Chapal-Otis
rule would likely add to his remainder. Of course the
very purpose of the statute, as Surrogate Foley points
out, is to deprive him of that objection to the accounts,
to protect the trustee against that hazard, and to give the
remainderman other compensatory advantages. The legislature has furthered certainty at cost of flexibility.
Constitutional validity of this legislation if it had been
made applicable to estates of decedents dying after its
enactment is not questioned. It is objected only that application to an estate whose administration began before
the Act so as to take away the remainderman's right to
judicial examination of the trustee's computation of income makes it void for retroactivity.
It may be observed that insofar as appellants stand on
the Chapal-Otisrule it can benefit them only if it may be
retroactive. Both of these decedents died several years
before either of those decisions. If a property right to
some particular rule of income allotment in salvage proceeds vested at all, it would seem to have done so at death
of the testator. If so, remaindermen would have to show
that their preperty right was established by decisions then
in existence, or else that advantages derived from a later
judicial decision may not be repealed. The case comes
to this: Appellants took remainders at a time when the
rules by which to sequester their interests in proceeds from

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

complicated operations to salvage property were so indefinite that several years later the Court made an effort
to devise more definitive rules for the purpose. They
were but partly successful, and a few years later the legislature made further and perhaps more authoritative and
final rules. Comparing the later with the earlier effort,
the remainderman in these particular cases finds himself
prejudiced. He says we must confirm him in the earlier
by striking down the later of two retroactive rules of
law.
This statute does not purport to open accountings already closed or to take away rights or remainders judicially settled under the old rule. The statute is applied
only to judicial settlements pending at or instituted after
its enactment. Rights to succession by will are created
by the state and may be limited, conditioned, or abolished
by it. Irving Trust Co. v. Day, 314 U. S. 556. The whole
cluster of vexatious problems arising from uses and trusts,
mortmain, the rule against perpetuities, and testamentary
directions for accumulations or for suspensions of the
power of alienation, is one whose history admonishes
against unnecessary rigidity. The state may extend the
testamentary privilege on terms which permit tying up
of property in trust for possibly long periods. But the
state on creation of such a trust does not lose power to
devise new and reasonable directions to the trustee to
meet new conditions arising during its administration,
such as the depression presented to trusts holding mortgages. Cf. Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290
U. S. 398. Nothing in the Federal Constitution would
warrant us in holding that judicial rules tentatively put
forward and leaving much to discretion will deprive the
legislature of power to make further reasonable rules
which in its opinion will expedite and make more equi-

DEMOREST v. CITY BANK CO.
36

Opinion of

DoUGLAs, J.

table the distribution of millions of dollars of property
locked in testamentary trusts, even if they do affect the
values of various interests and expectancies under the
trust. The Fourteenth Amendment does not invalidate
the Act in question.
Affirmed.
MIR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

with whom

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs:

The New York Court of Appeals stated that in formulating the statutory rule in question the state legislature
did no more "than direct a trustee to do what under the
decisions of this court he has discretionary power to do."
289 N. Y. 423, 430, 46 N. E. 2d 501. And it went on to
say, "Before the enactment of this statute, the life tenant
could not have demanded as of right the payment to him
during liquidation of more of the surplus income than he
will receive under the statute. Neither does it appear
that the remaindermen could properly have insisted that
the trustee should be surcharged if in the exercise of his
discretion he had paid to the life tenant the amount which
the statute now directs." Id. That is a question of New
York law on which the New York court has the final say.
It is none of our business-whether we deem that interpretation to be reasonable or unreasonable, sound or erroneous. Sauer v. New York, 206 U. S. 536, 545-548.
And there is no suggestion here that state law has been
manipulated in evasion of a federal constitutional right.
Fox River Paper Co. v. Railroad Commission, 274 U. S.
651, 657; Broad River Power Co. v. South Carolina,281
U. S. 537, 540. Consequently I can see no possible claim
to substantiality of any federal question, whatever view
may be taken of the due process clause. I would therefore dismiss the appeal.

