620

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

SARTOR FT AL. v. ARKANSAS NATURAL GAS CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 232. Argued February 3, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
Summary judgment under Rule 56 of the Rules of Civil Procedure
should not have been granted defendant solely upon opinion affidavits of experts who either were officers of defendant or whose
interests with respect to the subject matter of the litigation were
similar to that of defendant, and who had given like testimony at
a previous trial of the cause wherein a jury had found contrary
to their testimony. P. 627.
134 F. 2d 433, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 727, to review the affirmance of a

judgment (46 F. Supp. 111) for the defendant, upon a motion for summary judgment under Rule 56, in a suit to recover sums claimed to be due the plaintiffs under an oil
and gas lease.
Mr. G. P. Bullis for petitioners.
Mr. Elias Goldstein, with whom Messrs. H. C. Walker,
Jr., Leon O'Quin, and Arthur O'Quin were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This litigation, begun a decade ago, has been terminated by a summary judgment, and whether rightly so
is the issue. The suit has weathered four adjudications,
including two trials, in District Court and four decisions
by the Court of Appeals.' We will recite only such of its
IArkansas Natural Gas Corp. v. Sartor, 78 F. 2d 924; Arkansas
Natural Gas Corp.v. Sartor,98 F. 2d 527; Sartorv. Arkansas Natural
Gas Corp., 111 F. 2d 772; Sartor v. Arkansas Natural Gas Corp.,
134 F. 2d 433.

SARTOR v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
620

Opinion of the Court.

history as bears on the issues as to summary judgment,
since we consider no other question.
Sartors are landowners in Richland Parish, Louisiana,
who in March of 1927 leased their lands for natural gas development. The lease, so far as here important, provides
that ". . . the grantor shall be paid one-eighth (1/) of
the value of such gas calculated at the rate of market price
and no less than three cents per thousand cubic feet, corrected to two pounds above atmospheric pressure . . ."
For many years the lessee made settlement at the 30
rate. The suit was based upon the contention that during all of the years from 1927 to 1932 inclusive such market price was considerably above 30. At the last trial
the court held that the claims for gas produced prior to
the 20th of March, 1930 were barred by the statute of
limitations or, as it is called in Louisiana, by prescription.
The issues as to gas produced between March 20, 1930 and
the commencement of the action were submitted to the
jury, which returned a verdict: "We, the Jury, find for
the Plaintiffs that the average price of gas at the well
in Richland Parish, Louisiana, field during the period beginning March 20, 1930, and ending March 20, 1933, to
be .0445 per 1,000 cu. ft. at 8 oz. pressure." The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed "so far as the verdict of the
jury fixed the market value of the gas upon which plaintiff is entitled to recover royalties." However, it reversed
the ruling that part of petitioner's claims were barred
by the statute of limitations and remanded the case for
trial of the same issues as to market price of gas produced
prior to March 20, 1930. The respondent-defendant then
filed a motion for summary judgment under Rule 56. The
motion was granted and the Court of Appeals affirmed.2
The importance of questions raised under the summary
judgment rule led us to grant certiorari.'
2 134 F. 2d 433.
' 320 U. S. 727.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

The controversy, both as to whether there is a cause of
action and, if so, in what amount, turns on whether the
"rate of market price" during this period before March
20, 1930 was above 30 per m. c. f., as it is conclusively adjudged in this case to have been thereafter. It is held in
Louisiana that the market price under such leases is to be
ascertained at the wellhead, if there is an established market price at that point. Unfortunately, this rule requires
that the price for royalty purposes be ascertained at a
place and time at which few commercial sales of gas occur. The lessees who market this royalty gas along with
their own production do not customarily make their deliveries at the wellhead but transmit gas from the several
wells some distance in gathering lines, turning it over to
larger buyers at points somewhat removed, and under
conditions of delivery different from wellhead deliveries.
The price producers receive at these delivery stations
often is substantially above the 30 price to the landowner.
The practice of fixing the price of landowner's royalty gas
at one time and place and of marketing his gas for a different price at another delivery point raises the dissatisfaction and problems which produce this case.
The Court of Appeals, correctly we think, followed the
Louisiana substantive rule that the inquiry in a case of
this kind shall determine (1) the market price at the well,
or (2) if there is no market price at the well for the gas,
what it is actually worth there, and "in determining this
actual value . . . every factor properly bearing upon its
establishment should be taken into consideration. Included in these are the fixed royalties obtaining in the
leases in the field considered in the light of their respective
dates, the prices paid under the pipe-line contracts, and
what elements, besides the value as such of the gas, were
included in those prices, the conditions existing when they
were made, and any changes of conditions, the end and
aim of the whole inquiry, where there was no market price

SARTOR v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
620

Opinion of the Court.

at the well, being to ascertain, upon a fair consideration
of all relevant factors, the fair value at the well of the gas
produced and sold by defendant.""
The defendant asked a summary judgment because it
averred "there exists no reasonable basis for dispute" that
during the period in question there was a market price
at the wells and that it did not exceed 30 per m. c. f. To
sustain this position it filed affidavits, a stipulation of
facts, and several exhibits. The plaintiffs resisted on the
ground that the motion was inadequately supported on
the face of defendant's papers. An affidavit by plaintiffs'
counsel analyzed defendant's affidavits in the light of testimony given by the witnesses at prior trials; asserted that
all were interested witnesses whose testimony was rejected
on previous occasions; recited previous verdicts in the
case; and setting forth affiant's experience in ten trials
of this character arising out of leases in this field, asserted
his knowledge of the market prices there and declared
it to be more than 50 per m. c. f. at the wellhead.
It should be observed that the entire controversy here
turns on questions of valuation. The only issue relates
to market price or value of plaintiffs' gas at the time and
place of delivery. If there has been no damage in the
sense of failure to pay the full market price, then there
is no cause of action, and if there has been damage in such
sense, there is a cause of action.
The summary judgment rule provides that "The judgment sought shall be rendered forthwith if the pleadings,
depositions, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, if any, show that, except as to the amount of damages, there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law." (Emphasis supplied.) Where the undisputed
facts leave the existence of a cause of action depending on
134 F. 2d 433, 434-35.

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

questions of damage which the rule has reserved from the
summary judgment process, it is doubtful whether summary judgment is warranted on any showing. But at
least a summary disposition of issues of damage should
be on evidence which a jury would not be at liberty to disbelieve and which would require a directed verdict for
the moving party.
The defendant undertook to establish the absence of a
triable issue by the affidavits of eight persons. It may be
assumed for the purposes of the case that the witnesses
offered admissible opinion evidence which, if it may be
given conclusive effect, would sustain the motion. It will
serve no purpose to review it in detail, and we recite only
the facts which made it inconclusive. Affiant Harris was
the Vice President and General Manager of the defendant,
clearly an interested witness. Hunter was a lessee and the
producer of gas with interests apparently similar to those
of the defendant. Hargrove was Vice President of a gas
pipeline company, owning leases and producing gas, which
the plaintiffs' attorney by affidavit avers is defending on
similar cases brought by these plaintiffs and others. Florsheim is an executive officer of two gas producing companies with similar interests to the defendant, and he avers
that the price in the Richland field was never in excess of
30, although in this very case it is adjudged at one time to
have been more. Stokes is the Chief Clerk of a producing
company and recites that the records of his company show
that "after deducting from the gross price realized by these
various corporations for gas produced from the Richland
gas field during the period 1928-1930 inclusive, the actual
average unit cost of gathering and delivering the aforesaid
gas, the net realization of those corporations from the sale
of gas during aforesaid period did not exceed 30 per m. c. f."
Waiving the question whether the contents of written
records can thus be proved, it would hardly seem that a
conclusion based on so complicated and indefinite a

SARTOR v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
620

Opinion of the Court.

calculation, should be accepted from an employee of a
corporation with an interest in the market price of gas
similar to the defendant's without opportunity to crossexamine. Feazel is another producer of oil and gas from
many leases, who avers that the price paid never exceeded
30, notwithstanding the jury verdicts. McHenry is a
lawyer and executive officer of a company operating gas
properties with interests similar to the defendant's.
Taylor is an officer of a similar producing company.
Apart from these, and contracts and leases useful only
in connection with the testimony of these witnesses, defendant offered a bulletin of the Federal Bureau of Mines,
which included a table showing the estimated value at the
wells of gas produced in Louisiana to be 30 per m. c. f. in
1927 and 3.30 in 1928. In so far as state-wide statistics
could have any value in proving the local market, this
would seem to sustain the plaintiffs' contention that the
price was over 30. Defendant also relied on a stipulation
of facts. This stipulation recited a number of contracts
for the sale of gas under various conditions, at various
prices, some considerably in excess of 30. It also showed
the cost of delivery from the wells to the point where these
sales were made to be 0.30 per m. c. f. Much of the controversy, as will be seen from the prior history of the case,5
is over the question whether these contract prices may be
used in aid of the plaintiffs' case. Defendant uses these
contracts only to explain their prices away by showing
differences in market conditions. They do not establish the claim that there is a wellhead market price. The
5 See Arkansas Natural Gas Corp. v. Sartor, 78 F. 2d 924 (appeal
after first trial); Sartor v. Arkansas Natural Gas Corp., 134 F. 2d
433 (decision below); cf. Sartor v. United Gas Public Service Co., 84
F. 2d 436; Sartor v. United Gas Public Service Co., 186 La. 555, 173
So. 103; Pardue v. Union Producing Co., 117 F. 2d 225; Driskell v.
Union ProducingCo., 117 F. 2d 229; Hemler v. Hope Producing Co.,
117 F. 2d 231.

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

stipulation also recites that about one-third of the leases
in this area specify the royalty in substantially the same
terms as the lease in suit, the rest providing for a fixed
royalty of 30 per m. c. f. About 90 per cent of the payments to be based on market price have been made on
the basis of 30, and the remaining 10 per cent at 44 per
m. c. f. We certainly cannot rule as matter of law that the
40 price paid for 10 per cent of such royalty gas is not a
factor to be considered by a fact-finding tribunal in fixing
the market value, and is, or may be, some evidence to
sustain plaintiffs' contentions.
To summarize the features of the defendant's motion
papers:
1. The only evidence in support of defendant's contention as to the wellhead market price is opinion testimony of experts.
2. Each of them either is an officer of the defendant or
is a lessee, or is an employee or officer of a lessee corporation, engaged like defendant in gas production, and each
certainly is open to inquiry as to the truth of plaintiffs'
attorney's sworn statements that each has interest in or
bias as to the subject matter of this litigation.
3. Every one of defendant's witnesses had testified
to the same general effect on the trial of the claim wherein
the jury found against the testimony and the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the verdict.
4. Defendant undertook by its motion to show that it
was beyond controversy that the 30 price prevailed constantly and not as a matter of averages for the entire period
ended March 19, 1930, although prior trial had conclusively
adjudged that on March 20, 1930 and thereafter the price
or value averaged 4.450 as recited in the jury verdict. No
evidence is presented of any sudden change, and no fact is
offered to explain any change in the market and price of
such gas. In fact any change is inconsistent with defend-

SARTOR v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
620

Opinion of the Court.

ants' position in the former trial, which was that at no time
in either period had the market exceeded 30.
The Court of Appeals below heretofore has correctly
noted that Rule 56 authorizes summary judgment only
where the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, where it is quite clear what the truth is, that no
genuine issue remains for trial, and that the purpose of the
rule is not to cut litigants off from their right of trial by jury
if they really have issues to try. American Insurance Co.
v. Gentile Brothers Co., 109 F. 2d 732; Whitaker v. Coleman, 115 F. 2d 305. In the very proper endeavor to terinmate a litigation before it for the fourth time, we think
it overlooked considerations which make the summary
judgment an inappropriate means to that very desirable
end.
In considering the testimony of expert witnesses as to
the value of gas leases, this Court through Mr. Justice Cardozo has said: "If they have any probative effect, it is that
of expressions of opinion by men familiar with the gas
business and its opportunities for profit. But plainly
opinions thus offered, even if entitled to some weight, have
no such conclusive force that there is error of law in refusing to follow them. This is true of opinion evidence generally, whether addressed to a jury or to a judge or to a
statutory board." Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public
Utilities Comnission, 292 U. S.290, 299. Cf. Halliday v.
United States, 315 U. S. 94, 97; Forsyth v. Doolittle, 120
U. S.73, 77; McGowan v. American Pressed Tan Bark Co.,
121 U. S.575, 609; Quock Ting v. United States, 140 U. S.
417,420; Headv. Hargrave,105 U. S. 45, 50; Union Insurance Co. v. Smith, 124 U. S.405, 423. The rule has been
stated "that if the court admits the testimony, then it is
for the jury to decide whether any, and if any what, weight
is to be given to the testimony." Spring Co. v. Edgar, 99
U. S. 645, 658. ". . . the jury, even if such testimony

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

be uncontradicted, may exercise their independent judgment." The Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110, 131. ". . . the
mere fact that the witness is interested in the result of
the suit is deemed sufficient to require the credibility of
his testimony to be submitted to the jury as a question of
fact." Sonnentheil v. Christian Moerlein Brewing Co.,
172 U. S. 401, 408.
This Court has said: "The jury were the judges of the
credibility of the witnesses . . . and in weighing their
testimony had the right to determine how much dependence was to be placed upon it. There are many things
sometimes in the conduct of a witness upon the stand,
and sometimes in the mode in which his answers are
drawn from him through the questioning of counsel, by
which a jury are to be guided in determining the weight
and credibility of his testimony. That part of every case,
such as the one at bar, belongs to the jury, who are presumed to be fitted for it by their natural intelligence and
their practical knowledge of men and the ways of men;
and so long as we have jury trials they should not be disturbed in their possession of it, except in a case of manifest and extreme abuse of their function." Aetna Life
Insurance Co. v. Ward, 140 U. S. 76,88.
We think the defendant failed to show that it is entitled to judgment as matter of law. In the stipulation,
the bulletin, the affidavit of the plaintiffs' attorney and
the admission of its witnesses, there is some, although
far from conclusive, evidence of a market price or a value,
under the rules laid down by the Court of Appeals, that
supports plaintiffs' case. It may well be that the weight
of the evidence would be found on a trial to be with defendant. But it may not withdraw these witnesses from
cross-examination, the best method yet devised for testing trustworthiness of testimony. And their credibility
and the weight to be given to their opinions is to be deter-

SARTOR v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
620

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

mined, after trial, in the regular manner. The judgment
accordingly is
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting:

It is not denied that the two courts below have correctly applied the state law governing the right to recover
royalties on the particular type of gas lease here in question. By that law, in order to recover further royalty payments in excess of the 3 cents per 1,000 cubic feet of gas,
which petitioners have already received, they must sustain the burden of showing that during the relevant
period, the market price or value of the gas at the wellhead exceeded 3 cents. By Louisiana law also and upon
principles of proof which it is also not denied that the
courts below correctly applied, the "pipe line" price of
gas, without qualifications and supplementary proof
wholly lacking in this case, is not evidence of market price
or value at the wellhead. Consequently, on the motion
for summary judgment, the single issue was whether
petitioners had any evidence by which they could sustain
the burden resting on them of showing that during the
relevant period, there was a market price or value of
gas in excess of 3 cents at the wellhead.
True, Rule 56 (c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure excludes from the summary judgment procedure any issue
as to the "amount of damages," where there is an admitted
right of recovery but the amount of damages is in dispute.
But the Rule does not exclude from that procedure the
issue of damage vel non when that is decisive of the right
to recover. This is made plain by subdivision (d) of Rule
56, which provides for a partial summary judgment and
declares that the order shall specify the "facts that appear without substantial controversy, including the extent
to which the amount of damages or other relief is not in

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

controversy." Obviously, if it appears that there is no
evidence of damage, the "amount of damages" is not in
controversy and the court is not precluded from giving
summary judgment for the defendant.
On the single issue here presented, whether petitioners'
right to recover can be established by a showing of market
price or value of the gas at the wellhead, in excess of 3
cents, respondent's affidavits and documentary evidence
and a stipulation of facts show that all such sales of gas
during the relevant period were at 3 cents or less. The
affidavits also showed by opinion evidence of qualified
experts, the disinterestedness of some of whom is not, on
the present record, open to challenge, that the market
price and value of the gas at the wellhead did not exceed
3 cents. To meet the prima facie case thus made out by
respondent's papers, petitioners tendered only proof of
pipe-line prices, each of which the state or federal courts
had held in earlier cases to be no evidence of market price
or value of the gas at the wellhead. See Sartor v. United
Gas Co., 186 La. 555, 559-569,1 and cases cited.
It is irrelevant to any issue now presented that as to a
later period, as the field more nearly approached exhaustion, a jury had returned a verdict sustained by the court
below, by which it was found that the average market
price or value at the wellhead was in excess of 3 cents.
Since this was the average for a three year period, it does
not indicate any sudden advance in price, and is without
probative force to show a market price or value in excess
of 3 cents during the earlier period here in issue for which
IThis suit, brought by the present petitioners, turned on precisely
the issue here litigated-the market price of gas at the wellhead in
the R1ichland field. The Louisiana Supreme Court said that the
defendant lessee in that case "proved conclusively that the market
price in these fields does not exceed 3 cents per thousand cubic feet."
186 La. 555, 569.

SARTOR v. ARKANSAS GAS CORP.
620

SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

petitioners have tendered no probative evidence of a
higher price.
Nor is it sufficient to raise a genuine issue here that it
appears with respect to 3/% of the approximately 900
leases in the gas field, that settlements were made for
royalties of 4 cents. Respondent's motion papers show,
without contradiction, that these settlements "in almost
every case" were compromises of disputes as to whether
the lease in question had been properly developed,
whether the lessor was entitled to a further royalty on
gasoline recovered from the gas, or whether the lessee or
lessor should bear the burden of a local severance tax.
Such compromises of issues not present here furnish no
indication of the market price or value at the wellhead,
which alone is the issue decisive of this case.
Further, in the circumstances of this case, it is unduly
restrictive of the summary judgment procedure to say
viat respondent's motion for summary judgment must be
denied because it is supported in vart by affidavits of
interested expert witnesses who are not subject to crossexamination by the plaintiffs. Such an interpretation of
the rule can hardly be invoked in behalf of petitioners
here, who tender no probative evidence to challenge either
the proof of actual sales at wellhead at 3 cents or less or
the testimony of the experts, and who have not sought
to avail themselves of the privilege afforded by Rule 56
(e) and (f) to take the experts' depositions or to offer
the cross-examination of these witnesses at the former
trials of this action. The summary judgment procedure
serves too useful a function in terminating groundless
litigation to warrant its limitation in a way which Rule
56 does not admit and on grounds so insubstantial.
On this state of the record both courts below have held
that the issue whether petitioners have any proof tending to support the burden which rests on them to show
576281-44-----44

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

632

Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

market price or value at the wellhead in excess of 3 cents,
must be resolved against them. I think that the courts'
conclusion is correct; that they properly applied the summary judgment procedure, and that the judgment should
be affirmed.
MIR.

JUSTICE REED

joins in this dissent.

BOSTON TOW BOAT CO. v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 385. Argued March 1, 2, 1944.-Decided April 3, 1944.
Appellant's interest in the outcome of a proceeding in which the
District Court dismissed a petition to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, held insufficient to entitle it
to take a separate appeal from the judgment. Judicial Code, ยง 210,
as amended. P. 633.
Appeal dismissed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of a district court of three

judges, 53 F. Supp. 349, which dismissed a petition to set
aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. CharlesS. Bolster, with whom Mr. Albert T. Gould
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton, and Edward M. Reidy were on the brief, for the United States
et al.; Mr. ChristopherE. Heckman argued the cause, and
Mr. James A. Martin was on the brief, for the National
Water Carriers Association, Inc.,-appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant, Boston Tow Boat Company, was an intervenor in the proceedings before the Interstate Commerce

