144

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES, PRICE
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES EMERGENCY COURT OF
APPEALS.

No. 112. Argued November 18, 1943.-Decided January 31, 1944.
A public warehouse in California, the business of which is declared
by the Constitution of the State to be that of a public utility and
which is subject to comprehensive regulation (including the fixing of
rates and charges) under the Public Utilities Act of the State, held
a "public utility" within the meaning of the proviso of § 302 (c) of
the federal Emergency Price Control Act, and thereby exempt
from regulation under that Act. Pp. 152, 156.
137 F. 2d 201, reversed.

CEmTIORAI, 320 U. S. 721, to review the dismissal of a
complaint in a proceeding to have set aside, so far as applicable to the complainant, regulations promulgated by the
Price Administrator under the Emergency Price Control
Act.
Mr. Reginald L. Vaughan for petitioner.
Mr. NathanielL. Nathanson,with whom Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Paul A. Freund were on the brief, for
respondent.
Messrs. John E. Benton and Frederick G. Hamley ified
a brief on behalf of the National Association of Railroad
and Utilities Commissioners, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered

the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner, Davies Warehouse Company, is incorporated under the laws of California and conducts a public warehouse in Los Angeles. Its business is declared to
be that of a public utility both by the Constitution of

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

145

Opinion of the Court.

California' and its Public Utilities Act? The Act subjects to regulation by the Railroad Commission all warehouses which serve the public generally for compensation. § 21/2. New warehouses may be established only
after obtaining certificates of public convenience and
necessity, which the Commission may refuse or condition and may suspend or revoke at any time for cause.
§ 50 . Petitioner must grant nondiscriminatory and
equal rates to everyone, and it may not alter any existing
rate or charge without permission. §§ 19, 15. The Commission upon its own motion or upon complaint may determine "the just, reasonable and sufficient rates" and
fix the same by order. § 32. Petitioner is required to
make periodic reports and is subject to numerous restrictions and disabilities. §§ 29,51,52, 75,76, et al.
Several public warehouses, including the one before us,
made application to the Commission for general rate increases. The Commission gave a public hearing in Feb' "The Legislature shall pass laws for the regulation and limitation
of the charges for services performed and commodities furnished by
telegraph and gas corporations, and the charges by corporations or
individuals for storage and wharfage, in which there is a public
use . . ." California Constitution, Art. IV, § 33.
"Every private corporation, and every individual or association of
individuals, owning, operating, managing, or controlling any commercial railroad, interurban railroad, street railroad, canal, pipe
line, plant, or equipment, or any part of such railroad, canal, pipe
line, plant or equipment within this State, for the transportation or
conveyance of passengers, or express matter, or freight of any kind,
including crude oil, or for the transmission of telephone or telegraph
messages, or for the production, generation, transmission, delivery or
furnishing of heat, light, water or power or for the furnishing of
storage or wharfage facilities, either directly or indirectly, to or for
the public, and every common carrier, is hereby declared to be a
public utility subject to such control and regulation by the Railroad
Commission as may be provided by the Legislature . . ." California
Constitution, Art. XII, § 23.
2California Gen. Laws (Deering, 1937) Act 6386, § 2 (dd).

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

ruary 1942. From undisputed testimony it appeared
that: notice of hearing had been sent to over 3,000 cus-

tomers and no one appeared in opposition; rates had not
been advanced since 1938; wages, however, had been advanced on four different occasions; materials and supplies and wages of clerical and supervisory employees had
also increased; overall costs of operation had risen during
the period 20-26 per cent. On May 12, 1942, the Commission authorized a general 15 per cent advance which,
it said, "will permit applicants to increase their rates to
reimburse them in part for their added labor expense."
The permission was so conditioned, however, that the
reasonableness of any particular rate could be attacked by
any customer, either by way of reparation proceeding, for
which the Act makes provision, or otherwise. The effective date of the new rates was set by the Commission as
May 22, 1942.
In the meantime the United States Price Administrator,
acting under the Emergency Price Control Act,' on April
28, 1942 issued a General Maximum Price Regulation.
The effect of the federal regulation and later amendments
would have been to prohibit petitioner after July 1, 1942
from charging the rate authorized by the California Railroad Commission.
This federal Act provides that "nothing in this Act shall
be construed to authorize the regulation of . . . (2) rates
charged by any common carrier or other public utility."'
3 56 Stat. 23, 50 U. S. C. (Supp. II, 1942) § 901 et seq.
4§ 302 (c), 50 U. S. C. (Supp. II, 1942) § 942 (c), reads: "The
term 'commodity' means commodities, articles, products, and materials
(except materials furnished for publication by any press association
or feature service, books, magazines, motion pictures, periodicals and
newspapers, other than as waste or scrap), and it also includes services
rendered otherwise than as an employee in connection with the processing, distribution, storage, installation, repair, or negotiation or purchases or sales of a commodity, or in connection with the operation of

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

147

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner, asserting itself to be within this exemption,
made timely protest to the Price Administrator, which
was denied. It then filed a complaint with the United
States Emergency Court of Appeals, on which the Act
confers exclusive original jurisdiction to determine the
validity of regulations,5 asking it to set aside the General
Maximum Price Regulations in so far as they purport to
regulate its charges. The Emergency Court of Appeals
dismissed the complaint. Importance of the construction of the Act to its administration led us to grant
certiorari.
Congress, in omitting to define "public utility" as used
in the Act, left to the Administrator and the courts a task
of unexpected difficulty. Use of that term in a context
of generality wears an appearance of precision which
proves illusory when exact application becomes necessary. Relevant authorities and considerations are numerous and equivocal, and different plausible definitions result from a mere shift of emphasis. It may be contended
that the exemption runs in favor of any business generally
and traditionally regarded as a utility, irrespective of acany service establishment for the servicing of a commodity: Provided,
That nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the regulation of (1) compensation paid by an employer to any of his employees,
or (2) rates charged by any common carrier or other public utility, or
(3) rates charged by any person engaged in the business of selling or
underwriting insurance, or (4) rates charged by any person engaged
in the business of operating or publishing a newspaper, periodical, or
magazine, or operating a radio-broadcasting station, a motion-picture

or other theater enterprise, or outdoor advertising facilities, or (5) rates
charged for any professional services."
§ 204 (d), 50 U. S. C. (Supp. II, 1942) § 924 (d), provides:
...
The Emergency Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court upon
review of judgments and orders of the Emergency Court of Appeals,
shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine the validity of any regulation or order issued under section 2, of any price schedule effective
in accordance with the provisions of section 206, and of any provision
of any such regulation, order, or price schedule. .... "

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

tual state regulation. Or it may be urged to include any
enterprise actually regulated as are utilities, regardless of
traditional classification. Or itmay be said to extend only
to those businesses where actual utility regulation exists
along with general and traditional utility character.
The Emergency Court of Appeals weighed the conflicting factors in thorough opinions and divided as to result.'
Judges Maris and Magruder gave little weight to the existence of actual regulation and held the phrase to comprehend enterprises of the general utility type, among
which they thought this warehouse had no place. They
held that the federal price regulation superseded that of
the state, but said, "This is one of those unfortunate cases
where doubts would remain whichever way the case was
decided"-a reservation we share. Chief Judge Vinson
declared that this public warehouse possesses the basic
indicia of a public utility and in addition has its rates fixed
by an agency of the state, and under these circumstances
must be considered a public utility within the meaning
of the Act. He thought the state regulation should prevail over that of the Federal Price Administrator.
In Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113 (1877), this Court recognized that the business of public warehousing is "affected with a public interest" and that its regulation by
the state is appropriate and constitutionally permissible.
Cf. Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517, 544. Twenty-one
states regulate warehouses in some respects." Three
states include warehouses in their statutory definition of
G 137

F. 2d 201.

7Arizona Code (1939) § 52-901; Arkansas Acts 1935, Act 83; California Gen. Laws (Deering, 1937) Act 6386, § 2 et seq.; Idaho Code
Ann. (1932) § 59-128; Illinois Rev. Stat. (Bar Assn. ed. 1943) c. 111%,
§ 10 et seq., c. 114, § 189 et seq.; Indiana Stat. Ann. (Burns, 1933)
§ 54-105 et seq.; Kansas Gen. Stat. (1935) § 34-224 et seq.; Maine

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

149

Opinion of the Court.

public utilities," and eight include limited types of warehouses.' Forty-seven states have adopted the Uniform
Warehouse Receipts Act, which gives warehouse receipts
legal standing somewhat similar to that of a common
carrier's bill of lading. 0
We cannot, therefore, assume that Congress was unaware that a general statutory reference to "public utilities" might well be taken at least in some states to comprehend public warehouses. But Congress did not see
fit to employ that precision of definition which it has used
when it desired to make sure that its classification of
public utilities for federal purposes would depend upon
the nature of their activities uninfluenced by any state
policy." Legislative history is ambiguous, and in no instance was attention directed to the particular problem
presented here as to the scope of the term "public utility."
But the phrase was used to measure inclusions as well as
exemptions and it seems to have been employed in a
practical rather than legalistic sense. An effort was made
Rev. Stat. (1930) a. 62, § 15 et seq.; Minnesota Stat. (1941) c. 233;
M%.issouri Rev. Stat. Ann. (1941) § 14685.1 et seq.; Nebraska Comp.
Stat. (Supp. 1941) c. 88, § 219 et seq.; Nevada Comp. Laws (1929)
§ 6106 et seq.; North Carolina Code Ann. (1939) § 5124, Laws 1941, c.
291; North Dakota Comp. Laws (Supp. 1925) § 4609, c. 2, et seq.,
Laws 1931, c. 227; Oklahoma Stat. (Supp. 1943) tit. 81; Oregon Comp.
Laws Ann. § 60-301 et seq.; South Dakota Code (1939) c. 60.03; Texas
Stat. (Vernon, 1936) art. 6445; Utah Code Ann. (1943) § 76-2-1
et seq.; Washington Rev. Stat. Ann. (Remington) §§ 10344, 10392,
(Supp. 1940) § 11569-1 et seq.; Wisconsin Stat. (1941) § 195.21.
8
California, Indiana, South Dakota, loc. cit. supra note 7.
'Arizona, Idaho, Illinois, Maine, Nevada, North Dakota, Utah,

Washington, loc. cit. supra note 7.

10 3 Uniform Laws Ann. (Supp. 1942) 6.
"1E. g., Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, § 2 (a), 49

Stat. 804, 15 U. S. C. § 79b (a); Federal Power Act, § 201 (e), 49
Stat. 848, 16 U. S. C. § 824 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

in the Senate to insert a provision that public utility rates
should not be increased without consent of the President.12
That proposal was rejected, however, and a provision was
substituted which required any public utility which asked
for an increase in rates to notify the President and to assent to the appearance of such agent as the President may
designate to appear in behalf of the consuming public before the appropriate railroad or public utility commission,
be it a state, federal, or municipal commission. 8 It is
difficult to believe that a different scope was intended to
be given to the same words in different sections of the
legislation. The use of the same generic term in these
different contexts indicates that it had no narrower connotation and should receive no stricter interpretation in the
exemption merely because used to define an exemption.
Legislative history is unequivocal in its showing that
rates already subject to state regulation as public utility
rates were not considered in need of further control. Mr.
Leon Henderson, one of the authors of the bill and the
first Price Administrator, gave as reasons for exempting
utilities that they seemed to be under an adequate system
of state regulation ;14 that this was an area not likely to
give difficulty or to cause, so far as could then be seen, any
inflationary trend; that utilities had problems peculiar to
15
themselves and no further regulation seemed necessary;
12

Amendment proposed by Senator Norris to S. J. Res. 161. H. R.
7565, as amended by Senate, § 1, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.
13 56 Stat. 765, 50 U. S. C. (Supp. II, 1942), § 961.
14 " ..and public utilities were under what for the time being at
least seemed to be an adequate system of State regulation, and therefore did not need to be brought into review." Hearings before House
Committee on Banking and Currency on H. R. 5479, 77th Cong., 1st
Sess., Pt. I, Revised, p. 444.
15 "Now, as to the utilities. There is, as the members are aware,
an adequate set of regulations as to the charges which utility companies can make, These, again, are based upon a long series of judicial

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

151

Opinion of the Court.

and that he had found the agencies in control of utility
rates "just as earnest as we are about keeping those costs
down."

16

Under these circumstances the reasonable view appears
to be that Congress by the term "public utilities" exempted those whose charges already were regulated as
public utilities and hence were not probable sources of
inflationary dangers. It may be and probably is the case
that in its rate regulation the California Commission
will take account of different factors and have different
objectives than does the Federal Price Administrator.
That might have appealed to Congress as a reason for not
exempting utilities at all, but it hardly helps define the
limits of the exemption, for that objection is as cogent
against what admittedly is included as against that which
is left in doubt.
We think Congress desired to depart from the traditional partitioning of functions between state and federal government only so far as required to erect emergency barriers against inflation. No question as to the
power of Congress to reach and regulate this business,
should it find it necessary to do so, has been raised here.
But as matter of policy Congress may well have desired
determinations, of State regulations, and of State laws. It seemed to
those drafting the bill that this was an area which was not likely to
give difficulty or to cause, so far as they could see at that time, any
inflationary trend. The bill is designed to control an emergency in-

flationary situation and has left them out, just as it has transportation
rates. There are questions peculiar to utilities and none of them, so
far as I see at the present time, would make necessary further regulation by means of a price-control bill." Id., pp. 54--55.
16 ,... I have found that every one of the agencies charged with
these particular items of cost are just as earnest as we are about keeping those costs down." Id., p. 445; see the dissenting opinion of
Chief Judge Vinson in the Emergency Court of Appeals, 137 F.
2d 201, 209.
576281-44----14

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

to avoid conflict or occasions for conflict between federal
agencies and state authority which are detrimental to good
administration and to public acceptance of an emergency
system of price control that might founder if friction with
public authorities be added to the difficulties of bringing
private self-interest under control. 7 Where Congress has
not clearly indicated a purpose to precipitate conflict, we
should be reluctant to do so by decision.18 In view of assurances to Congress that the evil would proceed only in
a minor degree, if at all, from public utilities already under
state price control, we think Congress did not intend, and
certainly has given no clear indication that it did intend,
to supersede the power of a state regulatory commission,
exercising comprehensive control over the prices of a business appropriately classified as a utility. Classification
by California of the public warehouse business as a utility is not novel, surprising, or capricious. The regulation imposed is not merely nominal or superficial but
appears to be penetrating and complete. Therefore, we
would have little hesitation in holding that petitioner's
public warehouse under the circumstances is a public utility within the exemption of the Price Control Act, but for
certain practical objections to that interpretation, urged
on behalf of the Administrator with an earnestness which
deserves, in view of the difficulties and importance of his
task, careful examination.
1. It is urged that if the status of an industry under state
law is to be considered, the Administrator "would have to
face the question whether the particular business concerned was sufficiently 'affected with a public interest'
constitutionally to justify the type of legal obligation
17

The National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners

has filed a brief amicus curiae in opposition to what they consider an
invasion by the Price Administrator of their field of public regulation.
18 Terminal RailroadAssn. v. Brotherhood of Trainmen, 318 U. S. 1.

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

153

Opinion of the Court.

which the state imposes." The argument, in short, is that
the Administrator would have to decide whether the state
regulation is constitutional before he should recognize it.
We cannot give weight to this view of his functions, which
we think it unduly magnifies. State statutes, like federal
ones, are entitled to the presumption of constitutionality
until their invalidity is judicially declared. Certainly no
power to adjudicate constitutional issues is conferred on
the Administrator. Collusion between a state and a favored industry to impose forms of local regulation as a shield
against federal control might be conceivable and if such a
sham occurred the Administrator could perhaps challenge
its effectiveness to support an exemption. But it more
nearly accords with experience to assume that an industry
does not submit to price regulation until it has explored
all possible constitutional objections and litigated hopeful
ones. We think the Administrator will not be remiss in
his duties if he assumes the constitutionality of state regulatory statutes, under both state and federal constitutions,
in the absence of a contrary judicial determination.
2. It also is objected that if we consider the status of an
industry under state law, the Price Administrator "would
have to scrutinize and differentiate many kinds of franchises. Thus the Administrator, as incident to the task
of price control, would be called upon to determine in any
number of particular instances questions of state law
which require the most painstaking examination of statutes and decisions." We are not prepared to deny that
in some degree this will be true, for we do not hold that
all warehouses, or even that all warehouses regulated in
some aspects, come within the exemption. We think the
Administrator will have to form judgments and that they
will be judgments of some difficulty. Simplicity of administration is a merit that does not inhere in a federal
system of government, as it is claimed to do in a unitary

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

one. A federal system makes a merit, instead, of the very
local autonomy in which complexities are inherent. Nor
would the interpretation advocated by the Administrator
avoid the necessity of ascertaining and considering rights
thought to be possessed under local laws and not likely to
be yielded readily. One effect of the Administrator's
interpretation would be to postpone study of local laws
from consideration in connection with wise administration
to the time of litigation, as in this case. Local institutions, customs, and policies will not be overridden without fighting for consideration. The existence and force
and function of established institutions of local government are always in the consciousness of lawmakers and,
while their weight may vary, they may never be completely overlooked in the task of interpretation. At a
time when great measures of concentration of direction
are concededly necessary, it may be thought more farsighted to avoid paralyzing or extinguishing local institutions which do not seriously conflict with the central government's place. Congress has given no indication that it
would draw all such state authority into the vortex of the
war power. Nor should we rush the trend to centralization where Congress has not. It could never be more appropriate than now to heed the maxim reiterated recently
by the Court that "the extension of federal control into
these traditional local domains is a 'delicate exercise
of legislative policy in achieving a wise accommodation between the needs of central control and the lively
maintenance of local institutions.'" Yonkers v. United
States, 320 U. S. 685, 690; Palmer v. Massachusetts,308
U. S. 79, 84. At least in the absence of a congressional
mandate to that effect, we cannot adopt a rule of construction, otherwise unjustified, to relieve federal administrators of what we may well believe is a substantial
burden but one implied by the terms of the legislation

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

155

Opinion of the Court.

when viewed against the background of our form of
government.
3. It also is contended than an interpretation must prevail as matter of principle which will give the exemption
a general and uniform operation in all states irrespective
of local law. It is, of course, true that uniform operation
of a federal law is a desirable end and, other things being
equal, we often have interpreted statutes to achieve it.1"
But in no case relied upon did we achieve uniformity at
the cost of establishing overlapping authority over the
same subject matter in the state and in the Federal Government. When we do at times adopt for application of
federal laws within a state a rule different from that used
by a state in administering its laws, the two rules may
subsist without conflict, each reigning in its own realm.
It is a much more serious thing to adopt a rule of construction, as we are asked to do here, which precludes the
execution of state laws by state authority in a matter
normally within state power. The great body of law in
this country which controls acquisition, transmission, and
transfer of property, and defines the rights of its owners
in relation to the state or to private parties, is found in
the statutes and decisions of the state. The custom of
resorting to them to give meaning and content to federal
statutes is too old and its use too diversified to permit us
to say that considerations of nation-wide uniformity must
prevail in a particular case over our judgment that it is
out of harmony with other objectives more important to
I' The Administrator cites Chicago Board of Trade v. Johnson, 264
U. S. 1; Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188; Morgan v. Commissioner, 309
U. S. 78; Jerome v. United States, 318 U.S. 101,104. See also Deitrick
v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190; D'Oench, Duhme & Co. v. FederalDeposit
Ins. Corp., 315 U. S. 447, 470; Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric
Co., 317 U. S. 173, 176; Clearfield Trust (Jo. v. United States, 318
U. S. 363.

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DoUrmAs, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

the legislative purpose.' What content we should give
to the exemption in the case of a conventional utility not
subject to a state regulatory statute or subject only to
partial regulation is, of course, not before us.
4. Lastly, it is contended that we should accept the
Administrator's view in deference to administrative construction. The administrative ruling in this case was no
sooner made than challenged. We cannot be certain how
far it was determined by the considerations advanced,
mistakenly as we think, in its defense in this case. It has
hardly seasoned or broadened into a settled administrative
practice. If Congress had deemed it necessary or even
appropriate that the Administrator's order should in effect be final in construing the scope of the national pricefixing policy, it would not have been at a loss for words
to say so. We do not think it should overweigh the considerations we have set forth as to the proper construction
of the statute.
We hold that the petitioner's business is that of a public
utility within the exemption of the Act, and the judgment
below is accordingly
Reversed.
MR. JusTic, DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JusTic, BLAcX
and MR. JUsTIcE MURPHy concur, dissenting:
I think the present decision places an unwarranted burden on those who are waging the present war against in20 See Mangus v. Miller, 317 U. S. 178, Corn Exchange Bank v.
Klauder, 318 U. S. 434, Myers v. Matley, 318 U. S. 622 (bankruptcy);
Uterhart v. United States, 240 U. S. 598, 603, Crooks v. Harrelson,
282 U. S. 55, Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5, Helvering v. Fuller,
310 U. S. 69, 74, Helvering v. Stuart, 317 U. S. 154 (taxation);
McClaine v. Rankin, 197 U. S. 154, Rawlings v. Ray, 312 U. S. 96
(statute of limitations); Brown v. United States, 263 U. S. 78 (condetonation); New York, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Frank, 314 U. S. 360,
364-66 (railroad consolidation); United States v. Oklahoma Gas &
Electric Co, 318 U. S. 206; Board of Commissioners v. United States,
308 U. S. 343.

DAVIES WAREHOUSE CO. v. BOWLES.
144

157

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

flation. The Act exempts from federal price control the
"rates charged by any common carrier or other public utility." § 302 (c). The Administrator has accordingly
granted exemptions to enterprises furnishing the public
with gas, electricity, water, light, heat or power, and telephone and telegraph services. That group embraces those
enterprises which together with common carriers were
traditionally included in the category of a "public utility."
It should not be expanded by interpretation to include the
filigree variety with which we are now concerned.
The purpose of the Act is to provide an instrument for
national control of the inflationary forces set loose by the
war. The need for uniformity in the enforcement of the
Act is acute-to avoid inequality in burden and sacrifice;
to weigh the odds for success as heavily as possible on the
side of the public interest. The other exemptions in the
Act apply uniformly throughout the country-wages, insurance rates, theatre admissions, fees for professional
services, and the like. If the "public utility" exemption is
confined to the traditional classes of utilities, substantial
uniformity will be obtained as they are almost universally
subject to rate regulation in the States. But under the
view taken by the Court warehouses will be exempt in some
States but not in others. The same will be true of wharves
and docks, slaughter houses, public markets, cotton gins
and what not. And even in the same State there will be
exemptions for some warehouses but not for others. This
dependence of exemptions on the vagaries of state law
would be quite understandable if the federal act were designed to mesh with state control-federal control being
interposed to take up where state regulation was impossible or ineffective, as in various types of public utility regulation. Then there would be a great need in view of our
federal system to preserve as much local autonomy as possible. The same would also be true where only a partial
overriding of state controls was necessary to reach the

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

limited federal objective. But the war against inflation
is a grim affair calling for quite different requirements. It
cannot be waged along those traditional lines. The luxuries of peace-time arrangements do not always fit the
exigencies of this war emergency. Nor do the state rateregulations in question supplement the federal system.
They override it. And standards which they prescribe are
not the standards for price-fixing under the present Act.
The conventional power to fix rates is governed by criteria
quite different from those which control the Administrator's action. He is to fix those maximum prices which
"will be generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the
purposes of this Act." § 2 (a).
Every exception read into the Act creates another point
of leakage, multiplies the task of enforcement, and creates
a favored class of businesses. I would not read the Act
with such a hostile eye. Where two interpretations are
possible I would take the one which avoids those results.
The choice between the "letter" and the "spirit" is an ancient one even in the law. See Radin, A Short Way With
Statutes, 56 Harv. L. Rev. 388. In this case I think the
wrong choice has been made.
PRINCE v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS,
PLYMOUTH COUNTY.

No. 98. Argued December 14, 1943.-Decided January 31, 1944.
1. A state statute provides that no minor (boy under 12 or girl under
18) shall sell, or offer for sale, upon the streets or in other public
places, any newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or other articles
of merchandise. The statute makes it unlawful for any person to
furnish to a minor any article which he knows the minor intends
to sell in violation of the law; and for any parent or guardian to
permit a minor to work in violation of the law. Held-as applied

