JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
349

Syllabus.

knowable at the time of the transactions? To enforce a
double liability so incurred would be no harsher than to
enforce any contract obligation that had been assumed
without expecting it would result in liability. This decision is made harsh by the element of surprise. 1 Its
only harshness is that which comes of the Court's doing
with backwards effect what Congress has not seen fit to do
with forward effect.

JOHNSON ET AL. v. YELLOW CAB TRANSIT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 447. Argued January 6, 7, 1944.-Decided March 13, 1944.
Intoxicating liquors in transit from a consignor in Illinois to a consignee
at Fort Sill TMilitary Reservation were seized in Oklahoma by state
officers. The carrier instituted a proceeding in the federal district
court for the return of the liquors and to restrain further interference with their transportation to destination. Held:
1. The transportation of the liquors through Oklahoma violated
no law of that State and the seizure was illegal. P. 386.
2. Upon the facts, the purchase and delivery of the liquors were
not in violation of 10 U. S. C. § 1350. P. 388.
3. Applicability of the federal assimilative crimes statute is not
decided. P. 390.
4. Upon the record, the carrier, which had acted in good faith,
was not barred by the "clean hands" doctrine and was entitled in
this proceeding to the relief sought. Pp. 387, 392.
137 F. 2d 274, affirmed.
Il In authoritative studies made prior to the origin of this controversy which included studies of many of the cases cited by the Court's
opinion we are unable to find a trace or suggestion of the present theory
of stockholder liability for corporate obligations created by legislation. See Douglas and Shanks, Insulation from Liability through Subsidiary Corporations (1929), 39 Yale L. J. 193; Powell, Parent and
Subsidiary Corporations (1931), esp. Ch. III; Wormser, Disregard of
the Corporate Fiction (1927).

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 731, to review the affirmance of a
decree of injunction, 48 F. Supp. 594.
Mr. Sam H. Lattimore, Assistant Attorney General of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. Randell S. Cobb, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. John B. Dudley and Duke Duvall for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE B Acx delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioners are officials of Oklahoma State and Oklahoma County concerned with enforcement of Oklahoma's
liquor laws. Respondent is a common carrier by motor
vehicle authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission to transport in interstate commerce various commodities, including wines and liquors. See U. S. C. Title 49, c. 8.
In regular course of business the respondent-carrier undertook to transport 225 cases of wines and liquors from East
St. Louis, Illinois, through Missouri, into Oklahoma and
thence to a consignee at Fort Sill, a military reservation
within the boundaries of Oklahoma. While the vehicle
carrying the liquors was momentarily stopped at Oklahoma City for the purpose of loading and unloading other
freight, the petitioner-officials forcibly seized and took
away the liquors.
The carrier filed a complaint in the federal District
Court alleging that the seizure constituted an unlawful
interference with its authorized interstate transportation,
and praying that the Court order the officials to return the
liquors so that it might deliver them to the consignee at
Fort Sill. The answer to the complaint, in substance, admitted the material facts relative to the shipment and
seizure of the liquors but denied the allegation of the complaint that the seizure was unlawful. The answer did not
allege that judicial proceedings concerning the seized
liquor were pending, or were to be commenced, in an

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

385

Opinion of the Court.

Oklahoma state court. After a trial on stipulated facts,
the District Court ordered the liquors returned to the
carrier and forbade the officials to interfere with completion of the shipment. 48 F. Supp. 594. The Circuit Court
of Appeals, one Judge dissenting, affirmed. 137 F. 2d
274.
Questions presented in the petition for review concerning important state and federal relationships with regard
to federal enclaves prompted us to grant certiorari. 320
U. S. 731. Argument has revealed, however, that the determinative issues are more narrow: (1) Did transportation of the liquors through Oklahoma violate that State's
law so as to justify their seizure? (2) Should the District
Court have denied the carrier equitable relief because of
the "unclean hands" doctrine, even though seizure of the
liquors by the officials was illegal? This second question
rests on the disputed premise that introduction of the
liquors into Fort Sill would have violated the laws of the
United States.
Petitioners do not claim, nor could they claim, that
either of these two separate questions should be decided
in their favor on the ground that Oklahoma has power to
control liquor transactions on the Fort Sill Reservation.
With certain minor exceptions not here material, Oklahoma ceded to the United States in 1913 whatever aum'
thority it ever could have exercised in the Reservation.
The Oklahoma Supreme Court has recognized that the
general power to govern the Fort Sill area is vested in the
United States, not in Oklahoma,2 and our decisions lead to
the same conclusion.3
I Oklahoma Laws, 1913, c. 52, p. 90.
2
See Utley v. State Industrial Commission, 176 Okla. 255, 55 P.
2d 762; In re Annexation of Reno Quartermaster Depot Military
Reservation, 180 Okla. 274, 69 P. 2d 659.
3 See Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S. 518, 533; Pacific Coast
Dairy v. Department of Agriculture, 318 U. S. 285, 294.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

First. Since power to govern Fort Sill is in the United

States, and since the seized liquors were not to be sold,
delivered or otherwise disposed of in Oklahoma proper,
as distinguished from Fort Sill, the only Oklahoma laws
called to our attention which could have justified the
seizure are those which apply to liquor transportation.
No Oklahoma law purports on its face to prohibit or regulate interstate shipments of liquor into and through the
state to another state, or to an area subject to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States. And we were informed
at the bar by Oklahoma's legal representative that no state
statute had been construed by any state court as applying
to such through shipments. Oklahoma law does make it
unlawful "to import, bring, transport, or cause to be
brought or transported into the State . . . intoxicating
liquor . . . without a permit . . . as hereinafter pro-

vided." Okla. Stat. (1941) Title 37, § 41. The argument
is that the Oklahoma legislature intended this statute to
apply to liquor imported into the Fort Sill Reservation
because the latter is located within the exterior boundaries
of Oklahoma. Were this statute intended to do no more
than provide a means whereby the state could protect itself
from illegal liquor diversions within the area which Oklahoma has power to govern, the interpretation asked might
well be an acceptable one. Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314
U. S. 390; Carter v. Virginia, 321 U. S. 131. But the
statute has no such limited purpose. No permit to transport liquor into Oklahoma can be obtained at all except for
scientific, mechanical, medicinal, industrial, or sacramental
purposes. Okla. Stat. (1941) Title 37, § 42. To construe
the state statute in the manner urged would be to say that,
although Oklahoma admittedly has no power directly to
regulate the liquor traffic on the Reservation, the Oklahoma legislature intended practically to exclude from the
Reservation liquor which might be put to legal uses under
controlling United States laws. Neither the words nor

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

387

Opinion of the Court.

the scheme of the statute in question, nor any other relevant material pointed out to us, indicate that the Oklahoma legislature had such a purpose. Had the legislature expressed such a purpose, questions would be raised
which we need not here consider. See Collins v. Yosemite
Park & Curry Co., 304 U. S. 518, 533; Pacific Coast Dairy
v. Department of Agriculture, 318 U. S. 285, 295. Consequently, we find no justification for the seizure in Oklahoma law.
Second. But it is said that despite the fact the seizure
was illegal and wholly without justification, the consignee
could not have received the liquors without violating the
laws of the United States and for that reason the District
Court should have denied the carrier any relief under
the "clean hands" doctrine.
We may assume that because of the clean hands doctrine
a federal court should not, in an ordinary case, lend its
judicial power to a plaintiff who seeks to invoke that
power for the purpose of consummating a transaction in
clear violation of law." But this does not mean that courts
must always permit a defendant wrongdoer to retain the
profits of his wrongdoing merely because the plaintiff himself is possibly guilty of transgressing the law in the transactions involved.' The maxim that he who comes into
equity must come with clean hands is not applied by way of
punishment for an unclean litigant but "upon considerations that make for the advancement of right and justice."
Keystone Driller Co. v. General Excavator Co., 290 U. S.
240, 245. It is not a rigid formula which "trammels the
free and just exercise of discretion." Ibid., 245, 246.
'See generally 2 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence (5th Ed.) §§ 402,
403. Cf. Bentley v. Tibbals, 223 F. 247,252; Bonnie & Co. v. Bonnie
Bros., 160 Ky. 487,495, 169 S. W. 871.
r See, e. g., Catts v. Phalen,2 How. 376; Kinsman v. Parkhurst,18
How. 289, 293; Stark v. Grant, 16 N. Y. S. 526; Martinv. Hodge, 47
Ark. 378, 1 S. W. 694.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Therefore, before deciding the applicability of the maxim
to the case at hand, we must examine the particular transactions and circumstances involved together with the federal laws which are alleged to taint these transactions
with illegality.
As shown by the stipulated facts in this record, the
circumstances of the liquor shipment were as follows: Fort
Sill had an Officers' Club, which provided among other
things an officers' mess, living quarters for some Officers,
and other customary club facilities. Several hundred
Officer-members gave to the Club Secretary, himself an
Officer, separate written orders for liquor together with
money or checks in payment for the respective orders.
Acting for the Officer-members, the Secretary telephoned
from Fort Sill to a dealer at East St. Louis, Illinois, and
ordered the liquors shipped to the Club. The dealer delivered the liquors to the respondent-carrier under a uniform through bill of lading. It was this shipment which
the state officials seized. Had the shipment not been
seized it would have arrived at the Club for delivery to
the several Officers who had paid for it.
It is first contended that purchase and delivery of the
liquors were in violation of U. S. C. Title 10, § 1350, set
out in the margin.6 The agreed facts, summarized above,
sufficiently show that the transactions were not inviolation of this statute.
Petitioners next argue that the liquor transactions here
involved were in violation of the assimilative crimes statute.7 This statute, it is said, adopts all of the various
6"The sale of or dealing in, beer, wine or any intoxicating liquors
by any person in any post exchange or canteen or army transport
or upon any premises used for military purposes by the United States,
is hereby prohibited. The Secretary of War is hereby directed to
carry the provisions of this section into full force and effect." 31
Stat. 758; U. S. C. Title 10, § 1350. See Note 9, infra.
7 "Whoever, within the territorial limits of any State, . . .but
within or upon any of the places now existing or hereafter reserved

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

Opinion of the Court.

penal statutes of Oklahoma relating to liquor and makes
them the federal law applicable to the Fort Sill Reservation. Cf. United States v. PressPublishingCo., 219 U. S.
]; Franklinv. United States, 216 U. S. 559. Petitioners'
argument as to the applicability of the assimilative crimes
statute raises at least three distinct questions, no one of
which is easily resolved: (1) Which, if any, of the Oklahoma penal statutes are so designed that they could be
adopted by the assimilative crimes statute and applied to
Fort Sill? I See opinions of Circuit Court of Appeals,
supra; cf. Murray v. Gerrick & Co., 291 U. S.315. (2) If
there are Oklahoma statutes which could be so adopted, are
or acquired, described in section 272 of the Criminal Code . .., shall

do or omit the doing of any act or thing which is not made penal by
any laws of Congress, but which if committed or omitted within the
jurisdiction of the State, Territory, or district in which such place is
situated, by the laws thereof in force on February 1, 1940, and remaining in force at the time of the doing or omitting the doing of
such act or thing, would be penal, shall be deemed guilty of a like
offense and be subject to a like punishment." 54 Stat. 234, U. S. C.
Title 1, § 468. Section 272 of the Criminal Code, referred to in this
Act, is broad enough to include the Fort Sill Reservation. 35 Stat.
1143.
8
The Oklahoma liquor statutes pertaining to liquor imports provide
one illustration of the difficulties inherent in this question. These
penal statutes are designed to enforce a system of licensing such
imports by special permits issued by a state agency. Okla. Stat.
(1941) Title 37, §§ 41-48. Importation of liquors without a special
permit is made penal. Ibid., §§ 41, 46. To hold, therefore, that the
assimilative crimes statute adopts Oklahoma's penal liquor laws the
Court might further have to hold that that statute compels federal
officials on the Fort Sill Reservation to apply for and obtain state
permits before they can lawfully import any liquors for any purpose.
And a strong argument might be made that had Congress intended
such a drastic result, it would have considered the problem and used
more express language. See Note 7, supra;Senate Report No. 1699,
Senate Judiciary Committee, 76th Cong., 3d Sess.; House Report
No. 1584, House Judiciary Committee, 76th Cong., 3d Sess. Cf.
Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S.518, 533.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

all or any of them in conflict with federal policies as expressed by Acts of Congress other than the assimilative
crimes statute or by valid Army Regulations 9 which have
the force of law? 0 Cf. Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309
U. S. 94, 99-104. (3) Assuming that certain Oklahoma
statutes are adaptable, and are not inconsistentwith federal
policies, would such statutes make penal the liquor transactions here stipulated to have taken place? Inextricably
involved in each of the three questions is the further problem of whether certain of the Oklahoma liquor statutes
may be inconsistent with Oklahoma's constitution as interpreted by the Oklahoma Supreme Court. See opinions
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, supra; Ex parte Wilson,
6 Okla. Cr. 451, 119 P. 596; Morse v. State, 63 Okla.
Cr. 445, 77 P. 2d 757.
Considering the difficulty and importance of a correct
decision of the novel issues which an attempt to construe
this federal criminal statute would present, together with
the other circumstances of the present case, we are convinced that in the interest of sound administration of
justice we should refrain from a complete exploration of
these issues in this proceeding, especially since these is9
Army regulations have declared certain liquor policies for Army
reservations generally. See, e. g., A. G. 250.1 (1-20-43), concerning
the sale of liquor upon premises used for military purposes by the
United States, published by the War Department on January 25,
1943, in Circular No. 29; and A. R. 210-65, concerning Army Exchanges, published by the War Department on March 19, 1943. Petitioners have not contended that the liquor transactions here were contrary to any Army Regulations, and no Regulations have come to
our attention which would indicate that there is a basis for such a
contention. Whether the declaration of policies contained in these
various regulations indicates an intention of the War Department to
permit all liquor transactions not expressly prohibited, and whether,
if it does, the War Department has the power under Acts of Congress
to permit such transactions, seem open questions.
"IStandard Oil Co. v. Johnson, 316 U. S. 481, 484.

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
Opinion of the Court.

383

sues are only collateral to the principal issue of the legality
of the seizure of the liquor. Were we to decide that the
assimilative crimes statute is not applicable to this shipment of liquors, we would, in effect, be construing a federal
criminal statute against the United States in a proceeding
in which the United States has never been represented.
And, on the other hand, should we decide the statute
outlaws the shipment, such a decision would be equivalent to a holding that more than 200 Army Officers, sworn
to support the Constitution, had participated in a conspiracy to violate federal law. Not only that, it would for
practical purposes be accepted as an authoritative determination that all army reservations in the State of Oklahoma must conduct their activities in accordance with
numerous Oklahoma liquor regulations, some of which, at
least, are of doubtful adaptability. And all of this would
be decided in a case wherein neither the Army Officers nor
the War Department nor the Attorney General of the
United States have been represented, and upon a record
consisting of stipulations between a private carrier and
the legal representatives of Oklahoma.
Nor is it any answer to say that the carrier should be
compelled to sue in the Oklahoma state courts to reclaim
the liquors in order to give the Oklahoma courts the opportunity collaterally to pass upon the question of whether
these liquor transactions violate the federal assimilative
crimes statute. That broad question, though some parts
of it involve a consideration of the proper scope of the
state law adopted by the federal government, is in the
final analysis a question of the correct interpretation of a
federal criminal statute, and therefore an issue upon which
federal courts are not bound by the rulings of state courts.
PuertoRico v. Shell Co., 302 U. S. 253, 266. Indeed Congress has vested in the federal courts exclusive jurisdiction
over the trial of all federal crimes. Judicial Code § 256
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 371. And so, even if the carrier
576281-44----29

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

could bring suit in an Oklahoma state court to reclaim
the liquor, a point which is itself subject to some doubt n
the federal District Court should not for that reason refuse
relief in the present suit.
The ultimate question in this part of the case is whether
the carrier, whose complete good faith is in no way questioned, should have the court's doors shut to it. So to hold
would be to say that the state officials, who so far as this
record shows, had no search warrant or judicial process
of any kind,12 could retain liquors which they seized without authority of law. We do not find here any "unconscientious or inequitable attitude" on the part of the carrier. InternationalNews Service v. Associated Press, 248
U. S. 215,245. And so far as this record shows, the carrier,
in seeking relief in the courts against the unlawful seizure,
has proceeded in the only "practicable and adequate

way"Y available.
If the carrier's delivery of these liquors on the Fort Sill
Reservation would violate any federal law, federal agen1 Nothing in the record or briefs justifies the conclusion that the
carrier could bring such a proceeding in the state courts. And see
Okla. Stat. (1941) Title 37, §§ 72, 86, and 89; Blunk v. Waugh, 32
Okla. 616, 122 P. 717; Lee v. State, 180 Okla. 643, 71 P. 2d 1090;
cf. 1942 Chevrolet Automobile Motor No. BA-198897 v. State, 191
Okla. 26, 27, 128 P. 2d 448. Nor has there been any attempt to
show that, if the carrier could bring such a proceeding, the Army
Officers, the War Department, and the Attorney General of the United
States could intervene on the collateral issue of "clean hands."
22 Under Oklahoma law there are no "property rights" in liquor.
Okla. Stat. (1941) Title 37, § 72. Officers with power to execute
criminal process may arrest without a warrant one who violates the
state liquor laws, and seize the property used in the violation, and it is
their duty to take the property before a Court which may order it
forfeited and destroyed. Ibid., §§ 89, 90. As stated in the body of
the opinion, the record does not show that proceedings of any kind
were ever instituted, or sought to be instituted, in the state courts.
13 McFarlandv. American Sugar Refining Co., 241 U. S. 79, 84-85;
see also Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465.

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

FRNXrMTuM,

J., dissenting.

cies exist which are charged with responsibilities to institute appropriate proceedings against the carrier in federal
tribunals. In such proceedings the parties would be the
United States and the carrier, and the issue of violation of
federal laws would be directly, and not collaterally, presented. The complicated federal questions involved, concerning various federal statutes as well as Army rules
and regulations, could be answered upon an adequate
presentation of all factors essential to a right and just
determination.
And, similarly, if the several hundred Army Officers who
ordered and paid for these liquors have acted contrary to
United States Statutes, Army Regulations, or Orders of
the Post Commandant, it is not to be doubted that the
Army or some other United States agency is capable of
determining what course shall be pursued. Should the
United States determine to proceed in the matter it could
do so at such time and place as least would hamper essential military training, and the Army Officers would be
heard before they would be stigmatized as law breakers
and subjected as such to Army discipline. We will not,
at this time, and upon this inadequate record, resolve all
doubts against the lawfulness of their conduct in order to
deny relief against a plainly unlawful seizure of their
property from an interstate carrier whose good faith has
not been questioned.
Affirmed.
Mit. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER, dissenting:
iM. JUSTICE ROBERTS and I are unable to agree with the
Court's decision.

The ultimate issue in this case is whether a federal court
should, by issuing an injunction, aid in the consummation
of what appears to be a violation of the Criminal Code of
the United States. For it must not be forgotten that a
mandatory injunction, the relief sought in this suit, "is

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANXFuBTm,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

an extraordinary remedial process which is granted, not
as a matter of right but in the exercise of a sound judicial
discretion." Morrisonv. Work, 266 U. S. 481, 490.
A large shipment of wine and spirituous liquors was
seized by law-enforcement officers of the State of Oklahoma
while the liquor had temporarily come to rest at the terminal of the Transit Company. The liquor, in course of
transit from East St. Louis, Illinois, to the Fort Sill,
Military Reservation, was destined for the Officers Club at
the Reservation for delivery to several hundred members
of the Club on whose behalf its secretary was managing
the importation of the liquor. Upon seizure the liquor
was deposited in the County Court House of Oklahoma
County, where it is held as an illegal shipment of intoxicating liquor subject to forfeiture and destruction. Thereupon the Transit Company brought this suit for a mandatory injunction against the state officers, requiring them
to return the shipment and to refrain from interfering with
its delivery by the Transit Company at the Reservation.
The injunction issued and the Circuit Court of Appeals, in
two separate opinions, approved, with one judge dissenting. 48 F. Supp. 594; 137 F. 2d 274.
The facts establish that that which was done, if it had
been done in Oklahoma proper, would under its laws have
constituted a misdemeanor. Delivery of the liquor on the
Reservation would therefore be an offense under the federal
criminal law by virtue of the Act of June 6th, 1940, 54
Stat. 234, whereby Congress made applicable to the Reservation the penal laws of Oklahoma in existence on February 1, 1940, 18 U. S. C. § 468. But even if there were
doubt that the importation of the liquor into the Reservation under the circumstances of this record would offend
the Criminal Code of the United States, on the ground
that the act if committed within the jurisdiction of
Oklahoma "by the laws thereof in force on February 1,
1940 . . . would be penal," equity should resolve the

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

uNx'yURTn,

395

J., dissenting.

doubt in favor of law by denying the extraordinary remedy
of injunction instead of resolving it against law by granting the injunction.
Oklahoma is, colloquially speaking, a dry State. Only
for strictly defined purposes may liquor from without the
State be lawfully brought into it for consumption. Prohibited importations are penalized. If a transaction like the
one before us related wholly to Oklahoma soil it wouldthere can hardly be doubt-be outlawed. The Circuit
Judge who speaks with special knowledge of Oklahoma
law assures us that "the State of Oklahoma, by its Constitution and laws, makes it unlawful to possess, transport,
furnish, or receive this particular shipment of intoxicating
liquor, and it is therefore contraband and subject to seizure
and confiscation under the laws of the State," 137 F. 2d at
279. Judge Murrah calls specific attention to an Oklahoma statute which makes it a misdemeanor "for any person in this State to receive directly or indirectly any liquors,
the sale of which are prohibited by the laws of this State,
from a common or other carrier." I The opinion of Judge
Phillips recognizes that this Act of 1917 penalizes the
I"Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any person in this State to receive directly or indirectly any liquors, the sale of which is prohibited
by the laws of this State, from a common or other carrier.
"It shall also be unlawful for any person in this State to possess any
liquor, the sale of which is prohibited by the laws of this State, received directly or indirectly from a common or other carrier in this
State. This section shall apply to such liquors intended for personal
use, as well as otherwise, and to interstate as well as intrastate shipments or carriage. Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined
not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00 and by imprisonment for
not less than thirty days nor more than six months; Provided, however, that scientific institutions, universities and colleges, and bonded
apothecaries, druggists, hospitals or pharmacists may receive and
possess pure grain alcohol, as provided by the laws of this State, to be
used only for such purposes as are prescribed by the laws of this State."
Laws 1917, ch. 186, p. 350, § 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
TFhRNWKtM

,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

transaction before us within Oklahoma, but rejects its bearing when a federal court is asked to grant an injunction
involving this law by suggesting that this statute is "unconstitutional." He bases this suggestion on the argument that inasmuch as the Oklahoma Supreme Court has
held that a statute making mere possession of over one
quart of spirituous liquors unlawful is not "a reasonable
exercise of the police powers," and therefore beyond the
power of the legislature to make unlawful, Ex parte Wilson, 6 Okla. Cr. 451, 475, "it must likewise be beyond its
power to make unlawful the possession of intoxicating
liquor for personal use received from a common carrier."
137 F. 2d at 277. In other words, it is argued that because
the Oklahoma Supreme Court held that the mere possession of liquor cannot be made a crime by Oklahoma, Oklahoma cannot prohibit the receipt of liquor from a carrier.
On such reasoning a law that has been on the Oklahoma
statute books for more than twenty-five years, and during
that period actively enforced and never questioned, is
thrown into discard when a federal court is asked to exercise its duty of discretion in granting the extraordinary relief of an injunction. I am unable to follow such reasoning because Oklahoma law makes it baseless. The validity
of this provision, as already indicated, has been taken for
granted by the Oklahoma courts. It was the subject of
litigation in De Hasque v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
68 Okla. 183, 173 P. 73, and Crosslandv. State, 74 Okla. 58,
176 P. 944, and a conviction under this Section was susparte Wilson was decided in 1911. In 1913, the Oklahoma legislature enacted a statute which made the possession of more than one
quart of liquor "prima facie evidence of an intention to convey, sell
or otherwise dispose of such liquors." Laws 1913, c.26, p. 48, § 6,
37 0. S. A. § 82. The validity of this statute was upheld (Caffee v.
State, 11 Okla. Cr. 485, 148 P. 680), and the Oklahoma court ruled that
it superseded the 1911 Act which had been held invalid. Cf. Jenkins v.
State, 28 Okla. Cr. 249, 230 P. 293; Morse v. State, 63 Okla. Cr. 445,
458,77 P. 2d 757.
2Ex

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

FRAYMvMa,

J.,

dissenting.

tained in Walker v. State, 18 Okla. Cr. 661, 197 P. 520.
This is a specific statute, the continuing validity of which
is wholly unaffected by speculative doubts regarding other
and irrelevant liquor legislation of Oklahoma. The dissenting judge was justified in reading the Act of 1917 as
conclusively condemning the transaction which the carrier
was seeking to consummate as an offense, were it subject to
Oklahoma law.
But the shipment of liquor in controversy was for delivery on the Fort Sill Reservation, that is, a place within
the physical boundaries of Oklahoma but beyond its jurisdiction. It was stipulated between the parties that the
purpose of the suit was to enable the Transit Company to
transport and deliver the shipment to its destination in
the Reservation. Such was the basis of the District
Court's decree requiring the return of the shipment and
enjoining interference with "delivery of said shipment to
its destination" and no place else. This brings us to the
second half of the question in this case: may the Transit
Company, according to the law that rules such matters on
the Reservation, lawfully deliver this liquor at Fort Sill?
Of course all transactions on the Reservation are subject
to regulation by Congress. Constitution, Art. IV, §3,
'At least one other provision of Oklahoma legislation may well be
found to outlaw the delivery of the shipment for the completion of
which the carrier is seeking the aid of the federal court. Chapter 16,
p. 16, § 1 of the Laws of 1939 makes it "unlawful for any person...
to import, bring, transport, or cause to be brought or transported into
the State of Oklahoma, any intoxicating liquor ...

without a permit

first secured therefor as hereinafter provided." 37 0. S. A. § 41. Permits may be issued, under § 2 of that Act, only for the importation of
alcohol for scientific, mechanical, medicinal or sacramental purposes.
37 0. S. A. § 42. Since the importation of the liquor here involved
cannot possibly be said to fall within the classifications for which permits are granted, these statutory provisions as applied to the circumstances in this case are penal, and as such, may be applicable to the
Reservation under the Assimilative Crimes Act. 54 Stat. 234, 18

U. S. C.§ 468. See infra.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRA-xUsRTM,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

par. 2; see Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S. 518;
PennDairiesv. Milk Control Comm'n, 318 U. S. 261; Pacific Coast Dairy v. Department of Agriculture, 318 U. S.
285. If it chooses, Congress may provide a rule of law
which runs counter to the expressed dry policy of Oklahoma, and it may do so either specifically for Fort Sill or
generally for all federal reservations. Congress has not
done so. It has done the opposite. For more than a
hundred years most of the rules of life on national reservations have been controlled by the laws of the States
in which these reservations are located. By the Act of
March 3, 1825 (4 Stat. 115), Congress provided that when
something is done on a federal reservation which is not
made penal by the laws of Congress but which under State
law, if the State had jurisdiction, would be punishable, the
act should be equally punished as wrongful if committed
on the reservation. In thus adopting the penal laws of
the States as its code for lawful conduct on federal reservations within the States, Congress did not give to the
States a free hand to impose the continuing process of
State law-making on places over which the United States
has jurisdiction. Only the laws of the States existing at
the time when the Act of March 3, 1825 was enacted became operative on the reservations. United States v.
Paul,6 Pet. 141. And so, in view of the inevitable modifications and additions in the penal laws of the States,
Congress has accommodated its adoption of those state
laws, as the governing federal law, by bringing up to date
from time to time its adoption for enforcement on federal
reservations of the policies of the States which have penal
sanctions. Accordingly, the Act of March 3, 1825, was
in substance reenacted on April 5, 1866, 14 Stat. 12, 13,
was carried forward in § 5391 of the Revised Statutes of
1878, was again reenacted on July 7, 1898, 30 Stat. 717,
and became § 289 of the Federal Penal Code of 1910, 35
Stat. 1088, 1145. Since then and in relatively quick suc-

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

FRA

399

ymTEmR, J., dissenting.

cession, Congress has three times brought still nearer the
effective date of state penal laws applicable on federal
reservations, to wit by the amendments of June 15, 1933,
48 Stat. 152; June 20, 1935, 49 Stat. 394; and June 6,
1940, 54 Stat. 234. The last Amendment now controls
whereby
'Whoever . . . shall do . . . any act or thing which is
not made penal by any laws of Congress, but which if committed or omitted within the jurisdiction of the State,
Territory, or district in which such place is situated, by
the laws thereof in force on February 1, 1940, and remaining in force at the time of the doing . . . of such act or
thing, would be penal, shall be deemed guilty of a like offense and be subject to a like punishment." 18 U. S. C.
§ 468.
The very important purpose of this legislation in the
working of our dual system, as expounded after the fullest
consideration heretofore given to this subject by this
Court, bears repetition:
"while the statute leaves no doubt where acts are done
on reservations which are expressly prohibited and punished as crimes by a law of the United States, that law is
dominant and controlling, yet, on the other hand, where
no law of the United States has expressly provided for the
punishment of offenses committed on reservations, all acts
done on such reservations which are made criminal by
the laws of the several States are left to be punished under the applicable state statutes. When these results
of the statute are borne in mind it becomes manifest that
Congress, in adopting it, sedulously considered the twofold character of our constitutional government, and had
in view the enlightened purpose, so far as the punishment
of crime was concerned, to interfere as little as might be
with the authority of the States on that subject over all
territory situated within their exterior boundaries, and
which hence would be subject to exclusive state jurisdic-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
wuNXn, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

tion but for the existence of a United States reservation.
In accomplishing these purposes it is apparent that the
statute, instead of fixing by its own terms the punishment
for crimes committed on such reservations which were not
previously provided for by a law of the United States,
adopted and wrote in the state law, with the single difference that the offense, although punished as an offense
against the United States, was nevertheless punishable
only in the way and to the extent that it would have been
punishable if the territory embraced by the reservation
remained subject to the jurisdiction of the State."
UnitedStates v. PressPublishing Co., 219 U. S. 1, 9-10.4
Therefore the crucial question in relation to our present
problem is whether any law of Congress has overridden
the Oklahoma Act of 1917 which makes unlawful the transaction that the Transit Company seeks to consummate
with the aid of an injunction issued by a federal court.
There is no such law. Long before the Twenty-first
Amendment, Congress did provide that "The sale of or
dealing in, beer, wine or any intoxicating liquors by any
person in any post exchange or canteen or army transport
or upon any premises used for military purposes by the
United States, is hereby prohibited." Act of February 2,
'And see Webster, the sponsor of the bill in the Senate, in Register
of Debates in Congress (Gales & Seaton, 1825) Vol. I, p. 338: "As to
the third section [the precursor of the present Assimilative Crimes
Act], it must be obvious, that, where the jurisdiction of a small place,
containing only a few hundreds of people, (a navy yard for instance,)
was ceded to the United States, some provision was required for the
punishment of offences; and as, from the use to which the place was
to be put, some crimes were likely to be more frequently committed
than others, the committee had thought it sufficient to provide for
these, and then to leave the residue to be punished by the laws of
the state in which the yard, &c. might be. He was persuaded that the
people would not view it as any hardship, that the great class of minor
offences should continue to be punished in the same manner as they had
been before the cession."

JOHNSON v. YELLOW CAB CO.
383

FRANEFURTI,

J., dissenting.

1901, § 38, 31 Stat. 748, 758, 10 U. S. C. § 1350. Plainly,
the purpose of this legislation is not to supplant social
policies in regard to alcoholic liquor in the various States
within which the many federal enclaves are located except
to the extent of providing minimum regulations to restrict the free dealing in liquor at all Army posts including
those within wet States. The specific barrier thus erected
by Congress against the liberal liquor policies of some
States should not now be used as a qualification of the
generality of the Assimilative Crimes Statute in order to
serve as a barrier against the prohibitory laws of other
States. No such policy can be drawn from the Act of
1901-quite the opposite is implied. And assuming that
the military could assert such a policy in the interest of
Army morale, there is wholly lacking any manifestation
that the Army deems it necessary for the morale of its
officers that at Fort Sill conduct should be permitted which
if committed in the surrounding territory of Oklahoma
would offend its penal laws. So far as the War Department has indicated a policy, its policy like that of the Assinilative Crimes Statute is to adopt on military reservations the laws of their respective States. Thus, in reference to A. G. 250.1, § VI, par. 4 (1-20-43) of Circular
No. 29 of the War Department, Jan. 25, 1943, provides:
"Beer of an alcoholic content not in excess of 3.2 per centurn by weight may be sold or dealt in upon any of the
mentioned premises unless a State enactment of the State
in which the premises are located prohibits the sale of or
dealing in such beer throughout the entire State." And
the Judge Advocate General has said that "War Department policy does not favor sale of such [3.2] beer by exchanges in States where its sale is absolutely prohibited
." Bulletin of the Judge Advocate General of the
Army, July 1942, p. 100, § 310.
Even if there were more hypothetical doubt than the
laws and decisions of Oklahoma make manifest as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FR&xx'Tmw,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

validity and vitality of the Act of 1917 and its applicability to the importation of the liquor shipment involved in
this case, if the importation were into Oklahoma proper,
such a contingency should be left for determination by appropriate proceedings in the state court to recover the
liquor and not be made the basis for an injunction against
the state law in the federal court. Since federal law here
too turns on state law by adoption through the Assimilative Crimes Statute, the basis of our decision in Penn Dairies v. Milk Control Comm'n, supra, becomes relevant.
Here, as in that case, there is an "absence of some evidence
of an inflexible Congressional policy," 318 U. S.at 275,
opposed to the policy expressed by the State. In this case
as in that, we should therefore be slow to strike down state
legislation by elaborate implications. The discretionary
powers of equity particularly counsel against it. And even
if there were more doubt than appears regarding the adoption of the Act of 1917 by the Assimilative Crimes Statute, whereby the delivery of the liquor by the Transit
Company on the Reservation would constitute a misdemeanor, that doubt too should not be resolved against the
law in such a proceeding as this for an injunction. That
question although federal may also be litigated as part of
the indicated state court suit, where the Attorney General may intervene and then come here if he chooses to
assert whatever position the Government deems it appropriate to press.
In my view therefore it was an inequitable exercise of
discretion to issue this injunction. Of course, "Equity
does not demand that its suitors shall have led blameless
lives." Loughran v. Loughran, 292 U. S.216, 229. But
where the relief sought is not as to something past and
collateral, but where it is the very means, as is the case
here, for completing an outlawed transaction, a court of
equity should withhold its aid and not become the promoter of wrongdoing. The possible illegality of the seizure

U. S. v. WABASH R. CO.
Syllabus.

383

of the liquor by the Oklahoma enforcement officers is quite
irrelevant to our problem. "A question of public policy is
presented-not a mere adjudication of adversary rights
between the two parties." Weil v. Neary, 278 U. S. 160,
171. The abstention which equity exercises, as it should
here, under the short-hand phrase of the "clean hands
doctrine" is not due to any desire to punish a litigant for
his uncleanliness. "But the objection that the plaintiff
comes with unclean hands will be taken by the court itself.
It will be taken despite the wish to the contrary of all the
parties to the litigation. The court protects itself." Mr.
Justice Brandeis in Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S.
438, 485. It is hardly seemly for a federal court to order
the return of liquor seized with full knowledge by the
court that the carrier would use the liquor to share in the
commission of a misdemeanor. The penal statute here
applicable is a police regulation violation of which ought
not to be furthered by a federal court. While its violation
does not imply moral turpitude, Congress has required that
army officers should also conform to the law of a State on
which military reservations are located in matters that
are outside military concern.
UNITED STATES

ET AL.

v. WABASH RAILROAD CO.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 453. Argued March 8, 1944.C-Decided March 27, 1944.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing appellee railroads to cancel certain tariff supplements by which they
proposed to eliminate charges for spotting freight cars at the doors
of factories in the industrial plant of a manufacturing companybased on its finding that performance of the spotting service without charge would be an unlawful preference because a departure

