542

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

321 U. S.

judicial review is in fact. I have spoken more at length
on this subject in my opinion in Yakus v. United States,
ante, p. 448.

I think the judgment of the District Court was right
and should be affirmed.
BILLINGS

v. TRUESDELL, MAJOR GENERAL,
UNITED STATES ARMY.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 215. Argued February 2, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. A registrant under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940
becomes "actually inducted" within the meaning of § 11 of the Act
when in obedience to the order of his draft board and after the
Army has found him acceptable for service he undergoes whatever
ceremony or requirements of admission the War Department has
prescribed. P. 559.
2. Until "actually inducted" within the meaning of § 11 of the
Selective Training and Service Act, a registrant under that Act
is subject solely to civil and not to military jurisdiction. P. 557.
3. A registrant under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940,
whose claim that he was a conscientious objector had been rejected, was ordered by his board to report for induction. At the
induction center he was examined and put in Class 1-B. He informed the officers in charge that he refused to serve in the Army
and that he wanted to turn himself over to the civil authorities.
He refused to take the oath, but it. was read to him and he was
told that he was in the Army. He was then ordered to submit to
fingerprinting, but refused to obey. Military charges were preferred against him for willful disobedience of that order. Held
that he was not subject to trial by court martial but was subject
solely to civil jurisdiction. Pp. 544, 558.
135 F. 2d 505, reversed.
CERTiORARI, 320 U. S. 725, to review the affirmance of
an order, 46 F. Supp. 663, discharging a writ of habeas
corpus and remanding the petitioner to the custody of the
respondent.

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Lee Bond submitted for petitioner.
Mr. Edward G. Jennings, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and
Messrs. Robert S. Erdahl, Valentine Brookes, and Malcolm A. Hoffmann were on the brief, for respondent.
MA. JusTIcD DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Sec. 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act of
1940 (54 Stat. 894, 50 U. S. C. App. § 311) provides that
"No person shall be tried by any military or naval court
martial in any case arising under this Act unless such person has been actually inducted for the training and service
prescribed under this Act or unless he is subject to trial by
court martial under laws in force prior to the enactment
of this Act." '1 Petitioner Billings, who is held by the
Army on a charge of a violation of the Articles of War,
claims that this provision of the Act exempts him from
military jurisdiction and makes him responsible solely
to the civil authorities. The answer turns on whether
or not Billings has been "actually inducted" into the
Army. These are the facts.
'Sec. 11 so far as material here provides: "Any person .. .who
in any manner shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform any duty
required of him under or in the execution of this Act, or rules or
regulations made pursuant to this Act,

. .

.shall, upon conviction

in the district court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof,
be punished by imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine
of not more than $10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
or if subject to military or naval law may be tried by court martial,
and, on conviction, shall suffer such punishment as a court martial may direct. No person shall be tried by any military or naval
court martial in any case arising under this Act unless such person
has been actually inducted for the training and service prescribed
under this Act or unless he is subject to trial by court martial under
laws in force prior to the enactment of this Act."

544

OCTOBER TERi, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Billings claims to be a conscientious objector. He registered under the Act with Local Board No. 1 of Ottawa
County, Kansas, stating on his card at the time that he
would never serve in the Army. He was given a 1-B
classification because of defective eyesight but was reclassified as 1-A in January, 1942. The local board rejected his claim that he was a conscientious objector. He
appealed to the board of appeal which affirmed the ruling
of the local board. Though petitioner resolved never to
serve in the Army, he desired to comply with all of the
requirements of Selective Service short of actual induction, so that he might avoid all civil penalties possible.
Accordingly, he consulted with draft officials in Texas and
faculty members at the University of Texas where he
taught and concluded that taking the oath was a prerequisite to induction into the armed forces. He thought
he might be finally rejected by the Army on account of
defective eyesight. But he resolved that if he was not
rejected at the induction station, he would not take the
oath but would turn himself over to the civil authorities.
He was ordered by his local board to report on August 12,
1942 and to proceed to the induction center at Fort
Leavenworth. He joined the group selected for induction
and was transported to Fort Leavenworth where he and
the others in his group spent the night in the barracks.
The next morning after breakfast in the mess hall petitioner was given both the physical and mental examinations during which he made clear to the examining officials
his purpose not to serve in the Army. He then reported
to the officer who passed on the results of the examinations
and who told him that he had been put in Class 1-B. He
then reported to the induction office and told the officers
in charge that he refused to serve in the Army and that
he wanted to turn himself over to the civil authorities.
They said that he was already under the jurisdiction of
the military and put him under guard to prevent him from

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

leaving the reservation. With their consent, however, he
used the telephone and procured the services of an attorney whom he retained to file a petition for habeas
corpus on his behalf. Thereupon an Army officer read
petitioner the oath of induction which petitioner refused
to take. He was advised that his refusal made no difference, that "You are in the army now." He was then
ordered to submit to fingerprinting. He refused to obey.
Military charges were preferred against him for willful
disobedience of that order.
On August 14, 1942, petitioner filed this petition for a
writ of habeas corpus alleging that he was not a member
of the armed forces of the United States, that he was not
subject to military jurisdiction, and that if he had violated
any laws they were the civil laws of the United States.
The writ issued. Respondent filed a return and a hearing
was had at which petitioner testified. The District Court
discharged the writ and remanded petitioner to respondent's custody, holding that petitioner was subject to military jurisdiction. 46 F. Supp. 663. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed, holding that "Induction was completed when the oath was read to petitioner and he was
told that he was inducted into the Army." 135 F. 2d 505,
507. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
which we granted because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the Act.
I.
It is conceded that petitioner was not "actually inducted" in the Army within the meaning of § 11 of the
Act when he was ordered to report to the induction station.
But it is contended that from that time on he was subject to at least a limited military jurisdiction by reason of
the Articles of War.
Among those whom Article 2 of the Articles of War (41
Stat. 787, 10 U. S. C. § 1473) subjects to military law are

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

all persons "lawfully called, drafted, or ordered into, or to
duty or for training in, the said service, from the dates
they are required by the terms of the call, draft or order
to obey the same." This provision standing alone would
have made petitioner subject to military law from August
12, 1942, the date when he was required by the local board
to present himself for induction. That was indeed the
consequence under the Selective Draft Act of 1917 (40
Stat. 76). Franke v. Murray, 248 F. 865; United States
v. Bullard, 290 F. 704; Digest Op. J. A. G. 1912-1930,
§ 2238; 2 Op. J. A. G. (1918) 327.3; Second Report, Provost Marshal General (1918), p. 2 2 1 . The Articles of War
then in force (39 Stat. 651) had substantially the same
provision as the present Article 2. See. 2 of the 1917 Act
provided, moreover, that "All persons drafted into the
service of the United States ... shall, from the date of said
draft or acceptance, be subject to the laws and regulations
governing the Regular Army . . ." 40 Stat. 78. And the
regulations under the 1917 Act stated that when a registrant was ordered to report to a local board or a state
adjutant general for duty he was "in the military service"
from and after the day and hour thus specified. § § 133,
159D, 159E, 159F, 159G, 161. And see United States v.
McIntyre, 4 F. 2d 823. But the present Act and the regulations promulgated under it are differently designed.
Sec. 3 of the Act provides that "no man shall be inducted for training and service under this Act unless
and until he is acceptable to the land or naval forces for
such training and service and his physical and mental fitness for such training and service has been satisfactorily
determined." Moreover, as we have noted, Congress by
§ 11 withheld from military courts martial jurisdiction
over cases arising under the Act unless the person involved had been "actually inducted" or "unless he is
subject to trial by court martial under laws in force prior
to the enactment of this Act." The "actually inducted"

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

clause of § 11 was offered as an amendment on the floor
of the Senate by Senator Bone. 86 Cong. Rec. 10895. It
was designed, as stated by the Senate conferees, to give
civil courts jurisdiction over violations of the Act prior
to induction for training in substitution for the House
provisions that civil and military courts should have concurrent jurisdiction in such cases. 86 Cong. Rec. 11710,
12039, 12084. In view of this legislative history the Congress can hardly be presumed to have restored by the
second "unless" clause in § 11 what it took away by the
first "unless" clause. That is to say, § 11 of the Act read
together with § 3 indicates to us a purpose to vest in the
civil courts exclusive jurisdiction over all violations of
the Act prior to actual induction. It is suggested, however, that prior to that time a selectee may be subject
to military jurisdiction by reason of Art. 2 of the Articles
of War and be prosecuted before courts martial for all
offenses proscribed by the Articles, provided those acts
are not made criminal by the Act. Under that view a
selectee who failed to report for induction (Bowles v.
United States, 319 U. S. 33) or who, having reported,
refused to be examined (United States v. Collura, 139
F. 2d 345) could be prosecuted for such offenses only in
civil courts. § 11. But since by Art. 2 he became a
soldier when ordered to report, he could be prosecuted
by the military for those offenses which were proscribed
by the Articles of War but not by the Act.
We think that is too narrow a reading of § 11 of the
Act. As we pointed out in Falbo v. United States, 320
U. S. 549, 552, the mobilization program established by
the Selective Service System is designed to operate "as
one continuous process for the selection of men for national service"-a process in which the civil and military
agencies perform integrated functions. The examination of men at induction centers and their acceptance or
rejection are parts of that process. Induction marks its

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

end. But prior to that time a selectee is still subject to
the Act and not yet a soldier. A case involving his rights
or duties as a selectee prior to that event is a case arising under the Act. The civil authorities, not the military, are charged with the duties of enforcement at that
stage of the process. That necessarily means that the
measure of a selectee's rights and duties is to be found
in the Act, not in the Articles of War. For § 16 (a) of the
Act suspends all laws or parts thereof which are in conflict with its provisions.
We are supported in that view by the administrative
construction of the Act. The regulations promulgated
under it define a "delinquent" as one who is "liable for
training and service" under the Act and "who fails or
neglects to perform any duty required of him" by the
Act or the regulations made pursuant thereto. § 601.5.
And Part 642, which contains detailed provisions concerning the rights and duties of "delinquents," provides:
"Every registrant who has heretofore or who hereafter
fails to comply with an Order to Report for Induction
or an Order to Report for Work of National Importance
shall be reported promptly to the United States Attorney . . .; provided that if the local board believes
that by reasonable effort it may be able to locate the
registrant and secure his compliance, it may delay the
mailing of such Delinquent Registrant Report for a period not in excess of 30 days." § 642.41 (a). Moreover,
§ 642.42 (a) provides: "After a delinquent has been reported to the United States Attorney, it is the responsibility of the United States Attorney to determine whether
he shall be prosecuted. Before permitting such a delinquent to be inducted or assigned to work of national importance, the local board should obtain the views of the
United States Attorney concerning such action." We
will develop shortly the place of such regulations in the
Selective Service System. It is sufficient at this point to

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

note that the regulations treat the problems of "delinquents" as matters exclusively for the civil authorities.2
We cannot believe that the Act would have been given
that construction if, as is now contended, the selectee
became subject to even a limited military jurisdiction
prior to induction.
II.
Respondent argues in the second place that petitioner
became a soldier when the Army accepted him after his
examinations were completed. That argument is based
largely on the War Department Regulations.
The War Department Regulations 3 in force in August,
1942 (Mobilization Regulations No. 1-7, October 1, 1940)
provided in § II, par. 6, that "The function of the induction
station is to provide the final examinations for registrants
selected for induction and the induction of those acceptable to the Army." Sec. II, par. 13 (e) entitled "induction
ceremony" provided: "All men successfully passing the
2

While the regulations governing "delinquents" cited in the text
are those presently in force, the ones in effect at the time of Billings' refusal to be inducted were of the same tenor and were then
included in § 601.5, § 642.4, § 642.5.
It should also be noted that these regulations contain detailed provision for the parole of persons convicted of violations of the Act.
§§ 643.1 et seq. Those required to register under the Act may be paroled by the Attorney General on the recommendation of the Director
of Selective Service for induction or for other assignments. § 643.2.
The Attorney General has the power to impose "such terms and
conditions as he may deem proper" upon the parolee and shall supervise him, and may suspend or revoke the parole, except when the
parolee is "in the active land or naval forces of the United States."
§§ 643.8, 643.9. And Army Regulations No. 615-500, § II, par.
7 (b) (5) provide that registrants convicted of violation of the Act
"will be accepted for induction at any time," provided the Attorney
General of the United States has granted parole "for the purpose
of induction."
3 These were superseded September 1, 1942, by Army Regulations
No. 615-500.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

physical examination will be immediately inducted into
the Army. The induction will be performed by an officer
in a short, dignified ceremony in which the men are administered the oath, AW 109: 'I,
, do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will bear true faith and allegiance
to the United States of America; that I will serve them
honestly and faithfully against all their enemies whomsoever; and that I will obey the orders of the President of the
United States and the orders of the officers appointed over
me, according to the rules and Articles of War.' They will
be informed that they are now members of the Army of the
United States and given an explanation of their obligations
and privileges. In the event of refusal to take an oath (or
affirmation) by any individual he will not be required to
receive it, but will be informed that this action does not
alter in any respect his obligation to the United States."
The argument is that since the Army Regulations do not
condition a selectee's entry into the Army on his subscribing to the oath," induction must take place at some anterior
point of time. It is said that while § 3 of the Act provides
that a selectee shall not be inducted "until he is acceptable"
to the Army, there is nothing in the Act which postpones
induction beyond that time. The induction ceremony
described in § II, par. 13 (e) of the regulations is said to be
a formal exercise which solemnifies the occasion and during
which the soldier is advised concerning his obligations and
responsibilities to the United States. See United States v.
Smith, 47 F. Supp. 607. The statement in § II, par. 13 (e)
that those who pass the examination "will be immediately
inducted into the Army" is read to mean that selectees
4The case of a selectee is distinguished from that of an enlistee who
is required by Art. 109 of the Articles of War to take the oath. Identical requirements in the predecessor Articles of War applicable to enlistees were construed as inapplicable to draftees under the Selective
Draft Act of 1917. See 1 Op. J. A. G. 169 (1917); Franke v. Murray,
supra, pp. 868-869.

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

shall thereupon be accepted as soldiers. A statement by
an officer in authority that they are accepted, followed by
the reading of the oath and such other explanation as may
be required completes the ceremony.
That view finds support in informal rulings of the Judge
Advocate General's office? And War Department Regulations have the force of law as we recently had occasion to
reaffirm in Standard Oil Co. v. Johnson, 316 U. S. 481,
484.
But that circumstance is complicated here by the division of jurisdiction between the civil and military authorities which the Act creates. The President is authorized "to
select and induct" men into the armed forces "in the manner provided in this Act." § 3 (a). No man shall be "inducted for training and service under this Act unless and
until he is acceptable" to the armed services. § 3 (a).
And the civil authorities retain jurisdiction over him until
The following propositions were submitted to the Chief, Military
Affairs Section of the Judge Advocate General's office: "1. That the
only purpose of the administration of the oath as set out in VIR 1-7,
Paragraph 13e, is for the purpose of informing the individual of his
obligations and responsibilities to the United States of America, and
his acquiescence in, or acknowledgment of this obligation, by some overt
act indicating acceptance thereof is immaterial. 2. That induction
is complete immediately upon full acceptance of the individual by the
government. The oath or any act or requirement thereafter is ministerial only and is not necessary to the completion of induction. 3.For
induction no acquiescence or acceptance on the part of the individual
is required."
On June 6, 1941, the following informal ruling was made: "Generally
speaking, the above-quoted conclusions are believed to be sound, and it
therefore follows that a refusal on the part of a selectee to take the prescribed oath does not legally affect the validity of his induction." We
are advised by the Judge Advocate General on February 4, 1944, in a
supplemental memorandum filed by the Solicitor General that although
that opinion was expressed informally by letter and not in a formal
opinion it "represented the views of The Judge Advocate General" and
that those views "have not been modified and are hereby adhered to."
576281-44------9

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

he is "actually inducted." § 11. Thus it seems clear, as
we have already said, that the Act, rather than the War
DepartmentRegulations or theArticles of War, determines
the rights and duties of selectees, as distinguished from
inducted men. The manner and method of effecting an
induction into the Army are thus left for the War Department. But the power of the President under the Act "to
select and induct" men includes the power to determine
when the selective process is completed. It is only after
that process is finished that a selectee is eligible for
induction.
That view runs throughout the Selective Service Regulations promulgated under the Act. They are the regulations which have special relevancy here. The rulemaking power under the Act is vested in the President.
§ 10 (a) (1). The President in turn is given the power
to delegate that authority.' § 10 (b). And during the
period here in question, as at the present time,7 the President had delegated it to the Director of Selective Service.
Exec. Order, No. 8545, Sept. 23, 1940, 5 Fed. Reg., pp.
3779, 3781. The Act and the regulations promulgated
under it give the selective process its integrated nature.
Falbo v. United States, supra. They determine the role
which the military as well as the civilian authorities are
to play in the administrative process of selection. Id.
As in other instances (United States v. American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534, 549; Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S.
402) the interpretations of an Act of Congress by those
6 Sec.

10 (b) as originally enacted contained no limitation as to
the persons to whom that authority might be delegated. But by the
Act of December 5, 1943, 57 Stat. 598, § 10 (b) was amended to
read: "The President is authorized to delegate to the Director of
Selective Service only, any authority vested in him under this Act
(except section 9)."
See Exec. Order No. 9410, December 23, 1943, 8 Fed. Reg. 17319.

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

charged with its administration are entitled to persuasive weight.
As we have said, the Selective Service Regulations support our interpretation of the Act. Thus it is provided
that while a selectee is appealing or otherwise contesting
his classification, his induction shall be stayed. §§ 625.3,
626.14, 627.41, 628.7. And, as we have noted, when a
"delinquent" has been reported to a United States Attorney, the local board shall not order him to report for
induction without obtaining the views of the United
States Attorney. These provisions, as well as those governing the control of the local boards over the orders to
report for induction, which we will come to shortly, are
framed on the theory that the time when a selectee's
status may change from civilian to soldier is subject to
the terms and requirements of the Act. Thus they
confirm our construction of the Act.
The Selective Service Regulations also draw a distinction between acceptance (or being found acceptable)
by the Army and induction. During the period here in
question an inducted man was defined as "a man who has
become a member of the land or naval forces through the
operation of the Selective Service System." 32 Code Fed.
Reg. 1941 Supp. § 601.7. Induction station was defined
as any camp, etc. "at which selected men are received by
the military authorities and, if found acceptable, are
inducted into military service." § 601.8. And though the
regulation governing the reception of selected men at the
induction station referred to their treatment "pending
their induction or rejection" (§ 633.8), "induction" was
not otherwise used in the sense of "acceptance." For it
was defined in the very next regulation in the following
manner: "Induction. At the induction station, the
selected men found acceptable will be inducted into the
land or naval forces." § 633.9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

These regulations thus suggest that induction follows
acceptance and is a separate process. Read in that light
the War Department Regulations may be reconciled with
the regulations under the Act. For as we have seen, the
War Department provided by regulation at the time
Billings appeared at Fort Leavenworth that the "induction will be performed by an officer in a short, dignified
ceremony in which the men are administered the oath,"
etc. (Italics added.)
We are confirmed in this conclusion by recent amendments both to the Army Regulations and to the Selective
Service Regulations. The Army Regulations, as amended
March 30, 1943, now state respecting the "induction ceremony," that "The induction will be performed by an officer who, prior to administering the oath, will give the
men about to be inducted a short patriotic talk" (italics
added). This makes unambiguous the fair inference in
the earlier Army Regulations that selectees were inducted
by the ceremony and not before it.
Moreover, the Selective Service Regulations have been
amended in recent months so as to provide for preinduction physical examinations before a registrant "is ordered
to report for induction." § 629.1. As under the former
regulations, the group to be forwarded for examination
by the military authorities is assembled by the local board
and given certain instructions and credentials. § 629.22.
Registrants in certain classes "may be inducted into service at the induction station upon being found qualified
for service," provided they make written request of their
boards and provided there is no appeal pending in their
cases and the appeal period has expired. § 629.23. All
other registrants who are given the preinduction examination are returned to their local board when the examination is completed. § 629.22 (e). Those found acceptable by the Army or Navy are later ordered to report
for induction. §§ 632.1 et seq. Local boards, in filling

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

calls received, are authorized to allow twenty-one days
before induction to those who "have been found to be acceptable to the Army." § 632.4. This takes the place of
the earlier system whereby selectees were first inducted
and then given, if they desired, furloughs to attend to
their personal affairs. Army Reg. No. 615-500, September 1, 1942, § II, par. 16.
We mention these recent regulations because they perpetuate the distinction between acceptance or being found
acceptable and induction which appeared in the regulations when Billings reported at the induction station.
That these amendments do not effect any change in the
concept of "induction" is apparent from the fact that its
definition has remained practically the same from the
time when Billings reported at the induction station to the
present time.' It could hardly be maintained that a selectee who has passed his preinduction physical examination
but who has not been ordered to report for induction is
subject to military jurisdiction. And it would not seem
permissible to hold that he who failed to report for induction at the end of the so-called twenty-one day furlough
period could be prosecuted by a court martial because he
had been "actually inducted" within the meaning of § 11.
But if that is true, it is difficult to see why there would be
a difference in result if the interval between the time when
he is found acceptable or is accepted and the ceremony of
induction were only a few minutes, as in the present case,
rather than a few weeks.
8As we have indicated, the Selective Service Regulations in § 633.9
defined "induction" at the time Billings reported to the induction station as follows: "At the induction station, the selected men found
acceptable will be inducted into the land or naval forces." At the
present time § 633.25 defines "induction" as follows: "At the Army
Reception Center, the Navy Recruiting Station, or the induction sta-

tion, as the case may be, the selected men who have been forwarded
for induction and found acceptable will be inducted into the land or
naval forces."

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

III.
It is finally contended, as the Circuit Court of Appeals
held, that petitioner was inducted when the oath was read
to him and he was told that he was in the Army. At that
time he had been placed under guard and was retained
against his will. But the argument is that the military
has authority to exercise force for the purpose of inducting selectees into the service.
We have no doubt of the power of Congress to enlist the
manpower of the nation for prosecution of the war and to
subject to military jurisdiction those who are unwilling, as
well as those who are eager, to come to the defense of their
nation in its hour of peril. Arver v. United States, 245
U. S. 366. But Congress did not choose that course in the
present emergency. It imposed a separate penalty on
those who defied the law-prosecution by the civil authorities and a maximum penalty of five years imprisonment or a $10,000 fine or both. § 11. We say that that
penalty was aimed at those who defied the law, though
in the words of § 11 it includes, of course, only those who
have not been "actually inducted." But we give "inducted" the meaning it has in the Act and in the regulations. As we have pointed out, an inducted man is defined by the Selective Service Regulations as one "who
has become a member of the land or naval forces through
the operation of the Selective Service System." § 601.7.
That suggests that he becomes "actually inducted" within
the meaning of the Act by submitting to the Selective
Service System. The fact that he is not a volunteer is, of
course, irrelevant as the Act was designed as a "fair and
just system of selective compulsory military training and
service." § 1 (b). But induction under the Act and the
present regulations is the end product of submission to
the selective process and compliance with the orders of the
local board.

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of the Court.

It must be remembered that § 11 imposes on a selectee
a criminal penalty for any failure "to perform any duty
required of him under or in the execution" of the Act "or
the rules or regulations made pursuant thereto." He who
reports to the induction station but refuses to be inducted
violates § 11 of the Act as clearly as one who refuses to
report at all. UnitedStates v. Collura,supra. The order
of the local board to report for induction includes a command to submit to induction. Though that command
was formerly implied,' it is now express. The Selective
Service Regulations state that it is the "duty" of a registrant who receives from his local board an order to report
for induction "to appear at the place where his induction
will be accomplished," "to obey the orders of the representatives of the armed forces while at the place where his
induction will be accomplished," and "to submit to induction." § 633.21 (b). Thus it is clear that a refusal to
submit to induction is a violation of the Act rather than
a military order. The offense is complete before induction and while the selectee retains his civilian status.
That circumstance throws light on the meaning of the
words "actually inducted" as used in § 11 of the Act.
Congress by accepting the Bone amendment to § 11 specified the maximum penalty to be imposed on those who
violated the Act or disobeyed an order of their board prior
to their induction.0 It also withheld from military courts
9See §§ 633.1, 633.2, 633.6 in force in August, 1942.
10 The Conference Report stated: "The Senate bill provided that
persons subject to the bill who fail to report for duty as ordered should
be tried exclusively in the district courts of the United States and not
by military and naval courts martial, unless such persons had actually
been inducted for the training and service prescribed in the bill or
unless they were subject to trial by court martial under laws in force
prior to the enactment of the bill. The House amendment in such
cases gave the courts martial and the district courts concurrent jurisdiction, and made failure of persons to report for duty subject to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

jurisdiction over those offenders. At the same time, Congress did not authorize the Army to search out delinquents
wherever they might be and induct them without more.
We must therefore assume that Congress as a matter of
policy decided that those who disobeyed the order of their
board and refused to be inducted were to be punished by
the civil authorities and by them alone.'1 If forcible
seizure or detention of such offenders by the Army were
sanctioned, the Congressional policy of providing the
maximum punishment for their delinquency would be
undermined.
Moreover, it should be remembered that he who reports
at the induction station is following the procedure outlined in the Falbo case for the exhaustion of his administrative remedies. Unless he follows that procedure he
may not challenge the legality of his classification in the
courts. But we can hardly say that he must report to the
military in order to exhaust his administrative remedies
and then say that if he does so report he may be forcibly
inducted against his will. That would indeed make a
trap of the Falbo case by subjecting those who reported
laws and regulations concerning that branch of the land and naval
forces to which they were assigned from the date they were required
by the terms of the order to obey the same, even though they had not
actually been inducted.
"The conference agreement contains the provisions of the Senate
bill in this respect." 86 Cong. R~ec. 12039.
1 It is true that for other purposes Congress has treated selectees
who are ordered to report for induction the same as those in military
service. Thus the benefits of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief
Act of 1940 (50 U. S. C. App. § 501, 54 Stat. 1178), which originally
obtained only to "persons in the military service," were extended by
an Act of October 6, 1942, to selectees from the date of receiving an
order to report until the time of actually reporting for induction. 50
U. S. C. App. Supp. II, § 516, 56 Stat. 770. But, as we have pointed
out, the Selective Service Act and the regulations under it have not
made the selectee's civilian status change to that of soldier at either
point of time.

BILLINGS v. TRUESDELL.
542

Opinion of

FRANKURTER, J.

for completion of the Selective Service process to more
severe penalties than those who stayed away in defiance
of the board's order to report.
These considerations together indicate to us that a selectee becomes "actually inducted" within the meaning of
§ 11 of the Act when in obedience to the order of his board
and after the Army has found him acceptable for service
he undergoes whatever ceremony or requirements of
admission the War Department has prescribed.
We are not concerned with the wisdom of either the
"actually inducted" clause in § 11 or the procedure for
selection and induction which has been prescribed under
the Act. Nor is it for us to decide whether the maximum
penalty provided by Congress is adequate for those who
flout the Act while the nation fights for its very existence.
But where Congress has drawn the line between civil and
military jurisdiction it is our duty to respect it.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of

the view that the judgment

should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 135 F. 2d 505.
M . JUSTiCE FRANxFuITER:
Under the Selective Service Act of 1940, unlike that of
1917, a selectee is not subject to trial by a military court
martial until he has been "actually inducted" for training
and service. But Congress did not define when he was so
"inducted." It thus left to judicial construction when the
civilian status ceased and the military status began. In
a matter of this sort, involving as it does the process of
compulsory recruiting of the nation's Army in the midst
of war, it is of vital importance that the line be drawn
as definitely as the legislation reasonably permits in
order that ambiguity and controversy be reduced to a
minimum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

In the Falbo case we held the other day that "The connected series of steps into the national service which begins with registration with the local board does not end
until the registrant is accepted by the army . . ." 320
U. S. 549, 553. The line that was thus drawn-when
"the connected series of steps" has ended-seems to me to
be the line to draw between the civil and military status
of a registrant. In other words, when acceptance of a
registrant is communicated by the Army, the Army has
made its choice. The man is then in the Army. Such
was the ruling, and I believe the correct ruling, of the
court below. 135 F. 2d 505. According to the Court's
opinion, as I understand it, the Act itself does not draw
this line but Congress has authorized such a line to be
drawn by appropriate regulations. On that assumption,
I do not dissent.
EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 492. Argued March 8, 9, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. Upon review of decisions of the Tax Court, it is not the function
of the reviewing court to draw inferences from facts or to supplement stipulated facts. P. 563.
2. A decision of the Tax Court on review may be modified or reversed only if it is "not in accordance with law." P. 563.
3. "Interest" usually denotes an amount which one has contracted
to pay for the use of borrowed money. P. 564.
4. Upon the record, "excess interest dividends" paid by the life insurance company were not, as a matter of law, "interest" within
the meaning of § 203 (a) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1932; and
the Tax Court's disallowance of their deduction as "interest on indebtedness" may not be set aside. P. 564.
5. Provisions of the Revenue Acts for deductions from taxes are
to be strictly construed. P. 564.
137 F. 2d 623, affirmed.

