OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

730

Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. BLAIR,

321 U. S.

rDIviDuALLY AND TO TME

USE OF ROANOKE MARBLE & GRANITE CO.,

INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 75. Argued February 1, 1944.-Decided April 10, 1944.
1. The Government construction contract here involved imposed no
duty on the Government to take affirmative steps to prevent a
contractor from unreasonably delaying or interfering with the
attempt of another contractor to complete construction in advance
of the time specified; and the Government was not liable for
damages for such delay. P. 733.
The fact that after the execution of the contract the contractor
gave notice to all other parties of his intention to finish ahead of
schedule does not alter the obligation of the Government.
2. An award of damages by the Court of Claims against the Government on items which were the subject of "disputes concerning
questions arising under this contract"--though the actions of the
Government agents upon which the claims were based be assumed
to have been unauthorized, unreasonable and arbitrary-held
erroneous in view of the failure of the contractor to appeal to the
departmental head as required by Article 15 of the contract, it
not appearing that the appeal procedure provided was in fact
inadequate. P. 735.
3. The Court of Claims properly allowed a claim of the contractor,
to the use of a subcontractor, for extra labor costs incurred by
the subcontractor under conditions erroneously imposed by the
Government superintendent. P. 737.
99 Ct. Cls. 71, reversed in part.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 720, to review a judgment for the
plaintiff in a suit against the Government upon a contract.

Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Valentine Brookes and Melvin
Richter were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. H. Cecil Kilpatrick and Richard S. Doyle, with
whom Mr. FredS. Ball, Jr.was on the brief, for respondent.

UNITED STATES v. BLAIR.
730

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Prentice E. Edrington, Bernard J. Gallagher,
John W. Gaskins, William E. Hayes, and Frederick
Schwertner filed a brief on behalf of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., as amicus curiae, in
support of the respondent.
MR. JusTiCE l IumnCourt.

delivered the opinion of the

Respondent, a general contractor of long experience in
constructing federal buildings, was awarded a contract by
the United States to construct certain buildings at the
Veterans' Administration Facility at Roanoke, Virginia.
After completing the contract, respondent filed a claim
with the Veterans' Administration for certain expenses
which he claimed were caused by the delay of a mechanical contractor and for other expenses alleged to have been
imposed on him by the arbitrary, capricious and unfair
conduct of Government agents at the work site. The
claim was rejected and this suit in the Court of Claims
followed. Judgment in the sum of $130,911.08 was
awarded by that court to respondent, 99 Ct. Cls. 71. We
granted certiorari because of important questions of interpretation of the Government construction contract
used in this case.'
I.
Respondent's contract provided that the construction
work was to be completed within 420 days from the receipt of notice to proceed. Concurrently, one R. J. Redmon was awarded a mechanical contract 2 by the United
1 The

form of Government contract here involved was "U. S. Government Form P. W. A. 51," the critical provisions of which are substantially the same as those in the standard form of Government con-

struction contract.
2The terms and conditions of both respondent's and Redmon's
contracts were identical, differing only in the description of the work

to be performed.

732

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

States to perform the plumbing, heating and electrical
work in the buildings to be constructed by respondent.
Redmon's work was to be commenced promptly after
receipt of notice to proceed and was to be completed
at a date not later than that provided in respondent's
contract.
Respondent proceeded promptly with the construction
work. He planned to complete the work within 314 days
instead of the 420 days allowed him by the contract.
However, no representative of Redmon reported at the
work site until nearly three months after he received
notice to proceed. The contracting officer had previously
made many urgent demands that Redmon proceed with
his work and had advised him that the progress of respondent's construction work was being delayed by hit,
failure to start work; Redmon had also been threatened
with termination of his contract. He finally started work,
but made slow progress. At no time did Redmon have
adequate equipment or a sufficient number of men on the
job properly to carry on the work called for by his contract, nor was he financially able at this time to complete
his work. The Court of Claims found that reasonable
inquiry by the Government would have disclosed these
facts but that no such inquiry was made because of false
statements and reports made to the contracting officer by
the Government agents in charge of the work at the site.
Several months later, Redmon advised the contracting
officer that he was unable to proceed with his contract.
Redmon's surety secured a substitute and every effort was
made to overcome the delay. As a result, respondent was
able to finish his construction work within the required
420 days but not within the 314 days as he had planned.
The court below found that respondent was unreasonably
delayed for a period of three and one-half months due to
the failure of the United States promptly to terminate

UNITED STATES v. BLAIR.
730

Opinion of the Court.

Redmon's right to proceed, that the cost of the delay to
respondent was $51,249.52, and that the United States was
liable therefor.
We are of the opinion, however, that nothing in the
Government construction contract used in this case imposed an obligation or duty on the Government to aid
respondent in completing his contract prior to the stipulated completion date and that it was error for the Court
of Claims to award damages to respondent based upon a
breach of this non-existent obligation.
If the parties did intend to impose such an obligation
or duty on the Government, they failed to embody that
intention expressly in the contract. Article 13 of the contract merely obligates the contractor to cooperate with
other Government contractors and to refrain from committing or permitting any act which would delay such
other contractors. Article 9 imposes liquidated damages
upon the contractor for delay in completing his work unless
due to such unforeseeable causes as "acts of the Government." Nowhere is there spelled out any duty on the
Government to take affirmative steps to prevent a contractor from unreasonably delaying or interfering with the
attempt of another contractor to finish ahead of his
schedule.
Nor is there anything in the context of the contract to
lead us to believe that the parties meant more than they
said, or that the contract implies something that was not
expressed. The Government and respondent covenanted
that the construction work would be completed within 420
days; Redmon's contract was grounded on this same time
estimate. They cannot be said to have executed these
contracts in contemplation of the then unrevealed intention of respondent to complete his work three and one-half
months early. The fact that respondent subsequently
gave notice of this intention to all the other parties con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

cerned could not give rise to a new obligation on the
Government to compel accelerated performance from
Redmon.
Respondent had the undoubted right to finish his construction work in less time than the stipulated 420 days,
but he could not be forced to do so under the terms of
the contract. To hold that he can exact damages from the
Government for failing to cooperate fully in changing the
contract by shortening the time provisions would be to
imply a grossly unequal obligation. We cannot sanction such liability without more explicit language in the
contract. Compare Crook Co. v. United States, 270
U. S. 4; United States v. Rice, 317 U. S. 61.
II.
The Court of Claims, in addition to awarding damages
for the Government's delay in terminating Redmon's contract, awarded respondent $79,661.56 damages for extra
labor and materials, excess wages and miscellaneous costs
found to be the result of unauthorized acts, rulings and
instructions of the Government superintendent and his
assistant. The court also found that these acts, rulings
and instructions were unreasonable and in many instances
arbitrary, capricious and so grossly erroneous as to imply
bad faith.
Assuming without deciding that the actions complained
of were unauthorized, unreasonable and arbitrary, we cannot conclude that recovery of the resulting damages was
proper in this case. Article 15 of the contract in suit
provides that all disputes "concerning questions arising
under this contract shall be decided by the contracting
officer or his duly authorized representative, subject to
written appeal by the contractor within 30 days to the
head of the department concerned or his duly authorized
representative, whose decision shall be final and conclusive upon the parties thereto as to such questions." All

UNITED STATES. v. BLAIR.
730

Opinion of the Court.

of the items on which the recovery of $79,661.56 was based
were the subject of "disputes concerning questions arising
under this contract." Respondent appealed some of the
decisions or instructions of the Government superintendent to the contracting officer, which resulted in at least
one ruling favorable to respondent
As to the adverse
rulings, however, respondent made no further appeal to
the head of the appropriate department or his authorized
representative. Moreover, the remaining items which
were the subject of sharp dispute between respondent and
the superintendent were not even appealed by respondent to the contracting officer. And where the contracting
officer could be said to have acquiesced in the superintendent's rulings, no attempt was made to appeal further to
the departmental head.
Respondent has thus chosen not to follow "the only
avenue for relief," United States v. CallahanWalker Co.,
317 U. S. 56, 61, available for the settlement of disputes
concerning questions arising under this contract. In
Article 15 the parties clearly set forth an administrative
procedure for respondent to follow. Such a procedure
provided a complete and reasonable means of correcting
the abuses alleged to exist in this case. Arbitrary rulings
and actions of subordinate officers are often adjusted most
easily and satisfactory by their superiors. Furthermore,
Article 15 provided the Government with an opportunity
to mitigate or avoid damages by correcting errors or excesses of its subordinate officers. Having accepted and
agreed to these provisions, respondent was not free to disregard them without due cause, accumulate large damages
and then sue for recovery in the Court of Claims. Nor
can the Government be so easily deprived of the benefits
of the administrative machinery it has created to adjudicate disputes and to avoid large damage claims.
3

See Part IM,infra.

736

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 IJ.S.

The Court of Claims sought to justify respondent's failure to pursue the procedure outlined in Article 15. It
found that the superintendent and his assistant acted so
unreasonably as to make it impossible for respondent to
invoke the appeal procedure without subjecting himself to
punishment and reprisals. It also found that respondent
reasonably concluded that "the best and most practical
way of handling the matter of protests" was informally
through conferences with the contracting officer in Washington; the latter, however, was often unable or unwilling
to help him. Thus the court ruled that respondent was
excused from following the procedure set forth in the contract. We cannot agree. Even if the conduct of the Government superintendent or contracting officer, or their assistants, was so flagrantly unreasonable or so grossly erroneous as to imply bad faith, the appeal provisions of the
contract must be exhausted before relief is sought in the
courts. There was no finding or evidence that appeal to
the head of the appropriate department or to his authorized representative would have been futile or prejudicial.
Compare United States v. Smith, 256 U. S. 11, 16; Ripley
v. United States, 223 U. S. 695, 702. We cannot on this
record attribute to the departmental head the alleged unreasonable attitude of his subordinates. Nor can we
assume that the departmental head would have adopted an
arbitrary attitude or refused to grant respondent the relief
to which he may have been entitled. Moreover, nothing
in the record suggests that he could not effectively supervise his subordinates or provide full and prompt relief.
Thus, absent a valid excuse for not appealing the disputed
items to the departmental head pursuant to Article 15,
respondent cannot assert a claim for damages in the Court
of Claims. If it were shown that the appeal procedure
provided in the contract was in fact inadequate for the
correction of the alleged unreasonable attitude of the subordinate Government officials, we would have quite a

UNITED STATES v. BLAIR.
730

Opinion of the Court.

different case. But here we must insist, not that respondent turn square corners, but that he exhaust the ample
remedies agreed upon.
III.

Included in the $79,661.56 award of miscellaneous damages was one item of $9,730.27 on a claim to the use of the
Roanoke Marble & Granite Company, Inc., a subcontractor of respondent who furnished the materials and performed the labor necessary to install the tile, terrazzo, marble and soapstone work called for in respondent's contract
with the Government. This award was based upon extra
labor costs incurred under conditions erroneously exacted
by the Government superintendent. Respondent appealed
this matter to the contracting officer, who finally rendered
a decision in favor of respondent and the subcontractor.
The Government has not reimbursed either respondent or
the subcontractor for these excess labor costs; nor has
respondent paid the subcontractor for such costs. The
court below made no finding, and the subcontract as introduced in the record does not expressly indicate, that respondent was liable to the subcontractor for the acts of the
Government upon which the claim was based.
Clearly the subcontractor could not recover this claim in
a suit against the United States, for there was no express or
implied contract between him and the Government.
Merritt v. United States, 267 U. S. 338. But it does not
follow that respondent is barred from suing for this
amount. Respondent was the only person legally bound
to perform his contract with the Government and he had
the undoubted right to recover from the Government the
contract price for the tile, terrazzo, marble and soapstone
work whether that work was performed personally or
through another. This necessarily implies the right to recover extra costs and services wrongfully demanded of
respondent under the contract, regard-less of whether such

738

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FR&xymTm,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

costs were incurred or such services were performed personally or through a subcontractor. Respondent's contract with the Government is thus sufficient to sustain an
action for extra costs wrongfully demanded under that
contract. Hunt v. United States, 257 U. S. 125.
The decision of the Court of Claims is reversed as to all
items except the claim of $9,730.27. We affirm the judgment as to the latter claim.

MI. Jus=cE FUANEinTER, dissenting in part:
Those dealing with the Government must no doubt
turn square corners. While agents for private principals
may waive or modify provisions in contracts which circumstances have rendered harsh, provisions in government contracts cannot be so alleviated. But in order to
enforce the terms of a government contract courts must
first construe them. And there is neither law nor policy
that requires that courts in construing the terms of a government contract should turn squarer corners than if the
same terms were contained in a contract between private
parties. "A Government contract should be interpreted
as are contracts between individuals, with a view to ascertaining the intention of the parties and to give it effect
accordingly, if that can be done consistently with the
terms of the instrument." Hollerbach v. United States,
233 U. S. 165, 171-172. Like all other writings that do
not have the precision of mathematical terms, government contracts have interstices that secrete relevant implications. Neither a statute which provides that contracts shall be reduced to writing, nor the parol evidence
rule "precludes reliance upon a warranty implied by law."
United States v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132, 138. Unless the
terms of a contract are so explicit as to preclude it, the
presupposition of fair dealing surely must underlie a goveminent as well as a private contract. Ripley v. United

UNITED STATES v. BLAIR.
730

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

States, 223 U. S. 695,701-702; United States v. Smith, 256
U. S. 11, 16.
Accordingly, provisions in a government contract defining methods for settling controversies by appeal to the
contracting branch of the Government presuppose effective resort to such methods of settling questions that arise
in carrying out a contract,-they presuppose that administrative remedies as a condition to judicial relief are not
rendered futile and nugatory. This does not of course
question the good faith of the head of the Veterans' Administration. But where the man on the spot, in his daily
relations with the contractor, shows the kind of arbitrary
attitude found by the Court of Claims, he cannot be effectively supervised by the head of a department. In any
event, the burden of incurring the subordinate's future
hostility by appeals to the head of a department should
not be cast on the contractor. The findings of the Court
of Claims in this case can only mean that it would have
been wholly futile, and worse than futile, to invoke the
explicit provisions of the contract for resort to administrative relief. Therefore, as a reciprocal duty of the Governuent, the contract brings into operation the implied
warranty that those who have in effective keeping the
administrative machinery for settling controversies will
not prevent its utilization for all practical purposes.
The Court of Claims awarded respondent $79,661.56 to
compensate for losses and increased costs resulting from
the unreasonable and improper requirements imposed
upon the contractor by the Government's superintendent
of construction and his assistant. The circumstances surrounding the various items which go to make up this sum
differ in details, but the basis on which the Court of Claims
found for the contractor is the same.
The findings of fact of the court below tell a story of
arbitrary impositions. From the outset, the superintend-

740

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANIFLRTER,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

ing government officers required the contractor "to do
things admittedly not required of him under the contract
on threat of reprisals for refusal." These were not empty
threats. The evidence shows that an unauthorized and
unreasonable order to erect outside scaffolding for laying
bricks was enforced by rejecting brickwork which was not
precisely uniform to a maximum of one-sixteenth of an
inch by measurement, and exacting of plaintiff mortar
joints that did not vary more than one-eighth of an inch
by measurement. That these rejections and exactions
were wilful and oppressive became clear when all objections ceased as soon as the contractor decided to comply
and erect the outside scaffolds. This is but one illustration of what was apparently a systematic practice of unjustified demands and vexations.
The Court of Claims found that the superintendent
and his assistant "resented plaintiff's making protest to
the contracting officer, thereby rendering it impossible
for plaintiff effectively to protest in writing in each instance to the contracting officer through the defendant's
officer at the site of the work. . . . The contracting officer
in those cases involving unreasonable and arbitrary acts
and instructions of the officers at the site of the work
stated to plaintiff that he understood and appreciated the
troubles and difficulties under which plaintiff was having
to perform the work, but there was practically nothing he
could do about it and that plaintiff should keep him informed but that plaintiff 'would just have to do the best
he could to get along' with the officers and inspectors at
the site of the work, to the end that the work be completed
as soon as possible." If there is substantial evidence supporting these findings, this Court's power of review is
confined to questions of law. 53 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C.

ยง 288.
For all but one item, there can be no doubt that the
evidence is adequate and the award in accordance with

UNITED STATES v. BLAIR.
730

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

law. The contractor was awarded $107.50 for the extra
cost of temperature steel used by order of the superintendent of construction in slabs reinforced with two-way
rods. The record makes clear that the contract specifications supported this order of the superintendent, in

that no distinction was made as to whether the slabs were
reinforced by one-way or two-way rods, and the fact that
the contracting officer subsequently relieved the contractor of this requirement as to two-way rods does not justify
the award. In view of what I deem to be legal principles
governing the construction of contracts, I should therefore
affirm the judgment of the Court of Claims for damages
resulting from the acts of the superintending officers after
deducting $107.50.
MR. JusTIcE ROBFRTS joins in this opinion.

