CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
SNOWDEN v. HUGHES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 57. Argued December 13, 1943.-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. Allegations of a complaint in the federal district court, in substance
that the defendants, members of a state board acting as such but
in violation of state law, by their failure and refusal to certify
correctly the results of a primary, deprived the complainant of
nomination and election as a representative in the state assembly,
held insufficient to state a cause of action under the Fourteenth
Amendment or the Civil Rights Act of 1871. Pp. 5, 13.
2. The privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not protect rights derived solely from the relationship
of the citizen and his State established by state law. P. 6.
3. The right to become a candidate for state office is not a right or
privilege protected by the privileges and immunities clause. P. 7.
4. The unlawful denial by state action of a right to a state political
office is not a denial of a right of property or of liberty secured by
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 7.
5. The action of the state board, though it be regarded as state action,
did not deny the equal protection of the laws in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 7.
(a) Where a statute requires official action discriminating between a successful and an unsuccessful candidate, the required
action is not a denial of equal protection, since the distinction be-

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tween the successful and the unsuccessful candidate is based on a
permissible classification. P. 8.
(b) The unlawful administration of a state statute fair on its
face, resulting in its unequal application to those entitled to be
treated alike, is not a denial of equal protection unless there is shown
to be present an element of intentional or purposeful discrimination.
P. 8.
(c) The illegality under state law of the action taken neither
adds to nor subtracts from its validity under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 11.
6. Whether the action of the state board in this case was state action
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment is not decided.
P. 13.
132 F. 2d 476, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

319 U. S. 738, to review the affirmance of

a judgment dismissing the complaint in a suit to recover
damages for infringement of civil rights.
Mr. William R. Ming, Jr., with whom Mr. Joseph E.
Snowden was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, with whom Mr. George F. Barrett,Attorney General, was on the brief, for Edward J. Hughes et al.; and
Messrs.Isaac E. Fergusonand Herbert M. Lautmann submitted for Robert E. Straus et al.,--respondents.
MR. CBI3mF JUsTIcE STomN delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, a citizen of Illinois, brought this suit at law
in the District Court for Northern Illinois against respondents, citizens of Illinois, to recover damages for infringement of his civil rights in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment and 8 U. S. C. §§ 41, 43, and 47 (3). He alleged that the suit was within the jurisdiction of the court
as a suit arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), a suit for the recovery
of damages for injury to property and for deprivation of

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

a right or privilege of a citizen of the United States, 28
U. S. C. § 41 (12), and a suit for the recovery of damages
for deprivation, under color of state law, custom, regulation or usage, of a right or privilege secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (14).
The complaint makes the following allegations. Petitioner was one of several candidates at the April 9, 1940,
Republican primary election held in the Third Senatorial
District of Illinois pursuant to Ill. Rev. Stat. (State Bar
Assn. Ed.), Ch. 46, Art. 8 for nominees for the office of
representative in the Illinois General Assembly. By reason of appropriate action taken respectively by the Republican and Democratic Senatorial Committees of the Third
Senatorial District in conformity to the scheme of proportional representation authorized by Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 46,
§ 8-13, two candidates for representative in the General
Assembly were to be nominated on the Republican ticket
and one on the Democratic ticket. Since three representatives were to be elected, Ill. Const., Art. IV, §§ 7 and 8,
and only three were to be nominated by the primary election, election at the primary as one of the two Republican nominees was, so the complaint alleges, tantamount
to election to the office of representative.
The votes cast at the primary election were duly canvassed by the Canvassing Board of Cook County, which,
as required by Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 46, § 8-15, certified and
forwarded to the Secretary of State a tabulation showing
the results of the primary election in the Third Senatorial District. By this tabulation the Board certified
that petitioner and another had received respectively the
second highest and highest number of votes for the Republican nominations. Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 46, § 8-13
requires that the candidates receiving the highest votes
shall be declared nominated.
Respondents Hughes and Lewis, and Henry Homer
whose executors were joined as defendants and are re-

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

spondents here, constituted the State Primary Canvassing Board for the election year 1940. By Ill. Rev. Stat.,
Ch. 46, § 8-15 it was made their duty to receive the certified tabulated statements of votes cast, including that
prepared by the Canvassing Board of Cook County, to
canvass the returns, to proclaim the results and to issue
certificates of nomination to the successful candidates.
Such a certificate is a prerequisite to the inclusion of a
candidate's name on the ballot. Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 46,
§ 10-14. Acting in their official capacity as State Primary Canvassing Board they issued, on April 29, 1940,
their official proclamation which designated only one
nominee for the office of representative in the General
Assembly from the Third Senatorial District on the Republican ticket and excluded from the nomination petitioner, who had received the second highest number of
votes for the Republican nomination.
After setting out these facts the complaint alleges that
Horner and respondents Hughes and Lewis, "willfully,
maliciously and arbitrarily" failed and refused to file with
the Secretary of State a correct certificate showing that
petitioner was one of the Republican nominees, that they
conspired and confederated together for that purpose,
and that their action constituted "an unequal, unjust
and oppressive administration" of the laws of Illinois.
It alleges that Horner, Hughes and Lewis, acting as state
officials under color of the laws of Illinois, thereby deprived petitioner of the Republican nomination for representative in the General Assembly and of election to
that office, to his damage in the amount of $50,000, and
by so doing deprived petitioner, in contravention of 8
U. S. C. §§ 41, 43 and 47 (3), of rights, privileges and immunities secured to him as a citizen of the United States,
and of the equal protection of the laws, both guaranteed
to him by the Fourteenth Amendment.

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.
Opinion of the Court.
The District Court granted motions by respondents to
strike the complaint and dismiss the suit upon the grounds,
among others, that the facts alleged did not show that the
plaintiff had been deprived of any right, privilege or immunity secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and that, the alleged cause of action being
predicated solely upon a claim that state officers had failed
to perform duties imposed upon them by state law, their
failure was not state action to which the prohibitions of the
Fourteenth Amendment are alone directed, and hence was
not sufficient to establish an infringement of rights secured
to petitioner by the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed, 132 F. 2d 476,
holding on authority of Barney v. City of New York, 193
U. S. 430, that the action of the members of the State
Board, being contrary to state law, was not state action and
was therefore not within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
In substance petitioner's alleged cause of action is that
the members of the State Primary Canvassing Board, acting as such but in violation of state law, have by their false
certificate or proclamation and by their refusal to file a
true certificate deprived petitioner of nomination and election as representative in the state assembly. To establish
a cause of action arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States within the jurisdiction of the District
Court as prescribed by 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), (12) and (14),
he relies particularly on the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment supplemented by two sections of the Civil
Rights Act of 1871,8 U. S. C. §§ 43,47 (3).
18

U. S. C. § 41, on which petitioner also relies, guaranties to all

persons within the United States "the same right .

.

.

to the full and

equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persons
and property as is enjoyed by white citizens." As pointed out later

in this opinion, no claim of discrimination based on race is made.

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Section 43 provides that "Every person who, under color
of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of
and State . . ., subjects, or causes to be subjected, any
citizen of the United States or other person . . . to the
deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured
by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party
injured in an action at law . . .for redress." Section 47
(3), so far as now relevant, gives an action for damages to
any person "injured in his person or property, or deprived
of having and exercising any right or privilege of a citizen
of the United States," by reason of a conspiracy of two or
more persons entered into "for the purpose of depriving
. . . any person . . . of the equal protection of the laws,
or of equal privileges and immunities under the laws." It
is the contention of petitioner that the right conferred on
him by state law to become a candidate for and to be
elected to the office of representative upon receipt of the
requisite number of votes in the primary and general
elections, is a right secured to him by the Fourteenth
Amendment, and that the action of the State Primary
Canvassing Board deprived him of that right and of the
equal protection of the laws for which deprivation the
Civil Rights Act authorizes his suit for damages.
Three distinct provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment guarantee rights of persons and property. It declares that "No State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws."
The protection extended to citizens of the United States
by the privileges and immunities clause includes those
rights and privileges which, under the laws and Constitution of the United States, are incident to citizenship of
the United States, but does not include rights pertaining

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.

I

Opinion of the Court.

to state citizenship and derived solely from the relationship of the citizen and his state established by state law.
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 74, 79; Maxwell v.
Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 538; PrudentialInsurance Co. v.
Cheek, 259 Ui. S. 530, 539; Madden v. Kentucky, 309 U. S.
83, 90-93. The right to become a candidate for state office, like the right to vote for the election of state officers,
Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 170-78; Pope v. Williams, 193 U. S. 621, 632; Breedlove v. Suttles, 302 U. S.
277, 283, is a right or privilege of state citizenship, not of
national citizenship which alone is protected by the privileges and immunities clause.
More than forty years ago this Court determined that
an unlawful denial by state action of a right to state political office is not a denial of a right of property or of liberty secured by the due process clause. Taylor & Marshall v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548. Only once since has this
Court had occasion to consider the question and it then
reaffirmed that conclusion, Cave v. Newell, 246 U. S. 650,
as we reaffirm it now.
Nor can we conclude that the action of the State Primary Canvassing Board, even though it be regarded as
state action within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth
Amendment, was a denial of the equal protection of the
laws. The denial alleged is of the right of petitioner to
be a candidate for and to be elected to public office upon
receiving a sufficient number of votes. The right is one
secured to him by state statute and the deprivation of
right is alleged to result solely from the Board's failure
to obey state law. There is no contention that the statutes of the state are in any respect inconsistent with the
guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment. There is no
allegation of any facts tending to show that in refusing
to certify petitioner as a nominee, the Board was making
any intentional or purposeful discrimination between persons or classes. On the argument before us petitioner
576281-44-----5

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

disclaimed any contention that class or racial discrimination is involved. The insistence is rather that the Board,
merely by failing to certify petitioner as a duly elected
nominee, has denied to him a right conferred by state law
and has thereby denied to him the equal protection of
the laws secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
But not every denial of a right conferred by state law
involves a denial of the equal protection of the laws, even
though the denial of the right to one person may operate
to confer it on another. Where, as here, a statute requires
official action discriminating between a successful and an
unsuccessful candidate, the required action is not a denial
of equal protection since the distinction between the successful and the unsuccessful candidate is based on a permissible classification. And where the official action purports to be in conformity to the statutory classification,
an erroneous or mistaken performance of the statutory
duty, although a violation of the statute, is not without
more a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The unlawful administration by state officers of a state
statute fair on its face, resulting in its unequal application
to those who are entitled to be treated alike, is not a denial
of equal protection unless there is shown to be present in
it an element of intentional or purposeful discrimination.
This may appear on the face of the action taken with
respect to a particular class or person, cf. McFarlandv.
American Sugar Co., 241 U. S. 79, 86-7, or it may only be
shown by extrinsic evidence showing a discriminatory design to favor one individual or class over another not to
be inferred from the action itself, Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356, 373-4. But a discriminatory purpose is not
presumed, Tarrancev. Florida, 188 U. S. 519, 520; there
must be a showing of "clear and intentional discrimination," Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 186; see Ah Sin
v. Wittman, 198 U. S. 500, 507-8; Bailey v. Alabama, 219
U. S. 219, 231. Thus the denial of equal protection by

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

the exclusion of negroes from a jury may be shown by
extrinsic evidence of a purposeful discriminatory administration of a statute fair on its face. Neal v. Delaware,
103 U. S. 370, 394, 397; Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587,
589; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306 U. S. 354, 357; Smith v.
Texas, 311 U. S. 128, 130-31; Hill v. Texas, 316 U. S.
400, 404. But a mere showing that negroes were not included in a particular jury is not enough; there must be
a showing of actual discrimination because of race. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 322-3; Martin v. Texas, 200
U. S. 316, 320-21; Thomas v. Texas, 212 U. S. 278, 282;
cf. Williams v. Mississippi,170 U. S. 213, 225.
Another familiar example is the failure of state taxing
officials to assess property for taxation on a uniform standard of valuation as required by the assessment laws. It
is not enough to establish a denial of equal protection
that some are assessed at a higher valuation than others.
The difference must be due to a purposeful discrimination,
which may be evidenced, for example, by a systematic
under-valuation of the property of some taxpayers and a
systematic over-valuation of the property of others, so
that the practical effect of the official breach of law is the
same as though the discrimination were incorporated in
and proclaimed by the statute. Coulter v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 196 U. S. 599, 607, 609-10; Chicago,
B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 597; Sunday
Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350, 353; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519, 526.2 Such discrimination may also be shown to be purposeful, and hence a
denial of equal protection, even though it is neither sys2See also Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20,
36; Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota Co., 260 U. S. 441, 447; Bohler
v. Calloway, 267 U. S. 479, 489; Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board of
Revidon, 284 U. S. 23, 25, 28; cf. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Weeks,
297 U. S. 135, 139.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tematic nor long-continued. Cf. McFarlandv. American
Sugar Co., supra.
The lack of any allegations in the complaint here, tending to show a purposeful discrimination between persons
or classes of persons is not supplied by the opprobrious
epithets "willful" and "malicious" applied to the Board's
failure to certify petitioner as a successful candidate, or
by characterizing that failure as an unequal, unjust, and
oppressive administration of the laws of Illinois. These
epithets disclose nothing as to the purpose or consequence
of the failure to certify, other than that petitioner has been
deprived of the nomination and election, and therefore add
nothing to the bare fact of an intentional deprivation of
petitioner's right to be certified to a nomination to which
no other has been certified. Cf. United States v. Illinois
CentralR. Co., 303 U. S. 239, 243. So far as appears the
Board's failure to certify petitioner was unaffected by and
unrelated to the certification of any other nominee. Such
allegations are insufficient under our decisions to raise any
issue of equal protection of the laws or to call upon a federal
court to try questions of state law in order to discover a
purposeful discrimination in the administration of the
laws of Illinois which is not alleged. Indeed on the allegations of the complaint, the one Republican nominee
certified by the Board was entitled to be certified as the
nominee receiving the highest number of votes, and the
Board's failure to certify petitioner, so far as appears, was
unaffected by and unrelated to the certification of the
other, successful nominee. While the failure to certify
petitioner for one nomination and the certification of another for a different nomination may have involved a violation of state law, we fail to see in this a denial of the
equal protection of the laws more than if the Illinois
statutes themselves had provided that one candidate
should be certified and no other.

SNOWDEN v. HUG11ES.
Opinion of the Court.

If the action of the Board is official action it is subject
to constitutional infirmity to the same but no greater extent than if the action were taken by the state legislature.
Its illegality under the state statute can neither add to
nor subtract from its constitutional validity. Mere violation of a state statute does not infringe the federal Constitution. Compare Owensboro Waterworks Co. v. Owensboro, 200 U. S. 38, 47. And state action, even though
illegal under state law, can be no more and no less constitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment than if it
were sanctioned by the state legislature. Nashville, C.
& St. L. Ry. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362, 369-70. See also
Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., supra, 608-9;
Haymanv. Galveston,273 U. S. 414,416; Iowa-Des Moines
Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239,244. A state statute which
provided that one nominee rather than two should be
certified in a particular election district would not be unconstitutional on its face and would be open to attack
only if it were shown, as it is not here, that the exclusion
of one and the election of another were invidious and purposely discriminatory. Compare Missouri v. Lewis, 101
U. S. 22, 30, 32; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, supra.
Where discrimination is sufficiently shown, the right to
relief under the equal protection clause is not diminished
by the fact that the discrimination relates to political
rights. McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 23-4; Nixon
v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, 538; Nixon v. Condon, 286 U. S.
73; see Pope v. Williams, supra, 634. But the necessity
of a showing of purposeful discrimination is no less in a
case involving political rights than in any other. It was
not intended by the Fourteenth Amendment and the Civil
Rights Acts that all matters formerly within the exclusive
cognizance of the states should become matters of national
concern.
A construction of the equal protection clause which
would find a violation of federal right in every departure

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

by state officers from state law is not to be favored. And
it is not without significance that we are not cited to and
have been unable to find a single instance in which this
Court has entertained the notion that an unlawful denial
by state authority of the right to state office is without
more a denial of any right secured by the Fourteenth
Amendment. See Taylor & Marshallv. Beckham, supra,
and authorities cited; Cave v. Newell, supra. Only once
has it been contended here that an unlawful denial by
state executive, administrative or legislative authority of
the right to state office is for that reason alone a denial
of equal protection. Wilson v. North Carolina,169 U. S.
586. 3 In rejecting that contention this Court said at
pages 594-5:
"In its internal administration the State (so far as concerns the Federal Government) has entire freedom of
choice as to the creation of an office for purely state purposes, and of the terms upon which it shall be held by
the person filling the office ...
"Upon the case made by the plaintiff in error, the Federal question which he attempts to raise is so unfounded
in substance that we are justified in saying that it does
3In United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, this Court refused to
pass on a similar contention as to a refusal to count ballots cast in
an election for federal officers. The holding in that case that a refusal

to count votes cast, and the consequent false certification of candidates, was a denial of a right or privilege "secured ...

stitution ...

by the Con-

of the United States" was rested on the ground

that the right to vote for a federal officer, whether or not it be
deemed a privilege of citizens of the United States, see Twining v.
New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97, is a right secured by Art. 1, §§ 2 and

4 of the Constitution. See 313 U. S. at 314-5 and cases cited; United
States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383. The Court pointed out that "the
indictment on its face does not purport to charge a deprivation of
equal protection to voters or candidates," 313 U. S. at 329, and

declined to consider whether the facts alleged could constitute such
a denial.

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.
I

FRAxzURR,

J., concurring.

not really exist; that there is no fair color for claiming
that his rights under the Federal Constitution have been
violated, either by depriving him of his property without
due process of law or by denying him the equal protection of the laws."
As we conclude that the right asserted by petitioner is
not one secured by the Fourteenth Amendment and affords no basis for a suit brought under the sections of the
Civil Rights Acts relied upon, we find it unnecessary to
consider whether the action by the State Board of which
petitioner complains is state action within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The authority of Barney
v. City of New York, supra, on which the court below
relied, has been so restricted by our later decisions, see
Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, 37; Home
Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278, 294; IowaDes Moines Bank v. Bennett, supra, 246-7; cf. United
States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 326, that our determination may be more properly and more certainly rested on
petitioner's failure to assert a right of a nature such as
the Fourteenth Amendment protects against state
action.
The judgment is accordingly affirmed for failure of the
complaint to state a cause of action within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE RuTLEDGE concurs in the result.
MVR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTE,

concurring:

The plaintiff brought this action in a district court
to recover damages claimed to have been suffered at the
hands of the defendants as members of the State Primary
Canvassing Board of Illinois. The theory of his claim
is that the defendants, being in legal effect the State of
Illinois, denied to the plaintiff the equal protection of its
laws.

14

OCTOBER TERMI, 1943.
FRAmTm,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

The crucial allegations charging such a denial are in the
following paragraph of the complaint:
"11. That notwithstanding the clear and plain mandates of section 454 and section 456, chapter 46, Illinois
Revised Statutes, the defendants Edward J. Hughes and
Louie E. Lewis, and the decedent Henry Homer, acting
as the State Primary Canvassing Board of Illinois, entered into an understanding and agreement and combined,
conspired and confederated together to willfully, maliciously and arbitrarily refuse to designate plaintiff as one
of the nominees of the Republican Party for the office of
Representative in the General Assembly from the Third
Senatorial District of Illinois and to issue their Official
Proclamation designating plaintiff as one of the said nominees and to file their proper and correct certificate in the
office of the Secretary of State of Illinois showing that
plaintiff was one of the nominees of the Republican Party
for the Office of Representative in the General Assembly
from the Third Senatorial District of Illinois."
I should be silent were the Court merely to hold that
as a matter of pleading these allegations are not sufficiently explicit to charge as an arbitrary act of discrimination the concerted and purposeful use by the defendants of their official authority over the election machinery
of the State so as to withhold from the plaintiff the opportunity to present himself to the voters of that State "as
one of the nominees of the Republican Party" for election
to the General Assembly of Illinois. I should be silent
even though it were avowed that such a constrained reading of the complaint reflected the most exacting attitude
against drawing into the federal courts controversies over
state elections. Unless I mistake the tenor of the Court's
opinion, the decision is broader than mere inadequacy of
pleading.
All questions pertaining to the political arrangements
of state governments are, no doubt, peculiarly outside the

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.
I

FRANxFURTER,

J., concurring.

domain of federal authority. The disposition of state
offices, the manner in which they should be filled and contests concerning them, are solely for state determination,
always provided that the equality of treatment required
by the Civil War Amendments is respected. And so I appreciate that there are strong considerations of policy
which should make federal courts inhospitable toward litigation involving the enforcement of state election laws.
But I do not think that the criteria for establishing a denial of the equal protection of the laws are any different
in cases of discrimination in granting opportunities for
presenting oneself as a candidate for office "as one of the
nominees of the Republican Party" than those that are
relevant when claim is made that a state has discriminated
in regulating the pursuit of a private calling. It appears
extremely unlikely that the plaintiff could establish his
case. The sole question now is whether, assuming he
can make good his allegations, he should be denied the opportunity of a trial to do so.
The Constitution does not assure uniformity of decisions or immunity from merely erroneous action,
whether by the courts or the executive agencies of a state.
See McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363, 370-1. However, in forbidding a state to "deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws," the Fourteenth Amendment does not permit a state to deny the
equal protection of its laws because such denial is not
wholesale. The talk in some of the cases about systematic discrimination is only a way of indicating that in
order to give rise to a constitutional grievance a departure from a norm must be rooted in design and not derive merely from error or fallible judgment. Speaking
of a situation in which conscious discrimination by a state
touches "the plaintiff alone," this Court tersely expressed
the governing principle by observing that "we suppose
that no one would contend that the plaintiff was given the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FmwxuRTmR, J., concurring.

321 U.S.

equal protection of the laws." McFarland v. American
Sugar Co., 241 U. S. 79, 86, 87. And if the highest court
of a state should candidly deny to one litigant a rule of
law which it concededly would apply to all other litigants
in similar situations, could it escape condemnation as an
unjust discrimination and therefore a denial of the equal
protection of the laws? See Backus v. Fort Street Union
Depot Co., 169 U. S.557,571.
But to constitute such unjust discrimination the actiol,
must be that of the state. Since the state, for present purposes, can only act through functionaries, the question
naturally arises what functionaries, acting under what circumstances, are to be deemed the state for purposes of
bringing suit in the federal courts on the basis of illegal
state action. The problem is beset with inherent difficulties and not unnaturally has had a fluctuating history in the
decisions of the Court. Compare Barney v. City of New
York, 193 U. S.430, with Raymond v. Chicago Traction
Co., 207 U. S.20, Memphis v. Cumberland Telephone Co.,
218 U. S.624, with Home Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles,
227 U. S.278. It is not to be resolved by abstract considerations such as the fact that every official who purports to
wield power conferred by a state is pro tanto the state.
Otherwise every illegal discrimination by a policeman on
the beat would be state action for purpose of suit in a
federal court.
Our question is not whether a remedy is available for
such an illegality, but whether it is available in the first instance in a federal court. Such a problem of federal judicial control must be placed in the historic context of the
relationship of the federal courts to the states, with due
regard for the natural sensitiveness of the states and for
the appropriate responsibility of state courts to correct the
action of lower state courts and state officials. See, e. g.,
Ex parteRoyall, 117 U. S.241,251. Take the present case.
The plaintiff complains that he has been denied the equal

SNOWDEN v. HUGHES.
1

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

protection of the laws of Illinois precisely because the defendants, constituting the State Canvassing Board, have
willfully, with set purpose to withdraw from him the privileges afforded by Illinois, disobeyed those laws. To adapt
the language of an earlier opinion, I am unable to grasp
the principle on which the State can here be said to deny
the plaintiff the equal protection of the laws of the State
when the foundation of his claim is that the Board had
disobeyed the authentic command of the State. Holmes,
J., dissenting, in Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., supra
at p. 41.
I am clear, therefore, that the action of the Canvassing
Board taken, as the plaintiff himself acknowledges, in defiance of the duty of that Board under Illinois law, cannot
be deemed the action of the State, certainly not until the
highest court of the State confirms such action and thereby
makes it the law of the State. I agree, in a word, with the
court below that Barney v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 430,
is controlling. See Isseks, Jurisdictionof the Lower Fedcral Courts to Enjoin Unauthorized Action of State Officials, 40 Harv. L. Rev. 969. Neither the wisdom of its
reasoning nor its holding has been impaired by subsequent
decisions. A different problem is presented when a case
comes here on review from a decision of a state court as
the ultimate voice of state law. See for instance Iowa-Des
Moines Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239. And the case is
wholly unlike Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268, in which the
election officials acted not in defiance of a statute of a state
but under its authority.

MIR. JusricE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JusT=c MURPHconcurs, dissenting:
My disagreement with the majority of the Court is on a
narrow ground. I agree that the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment should not be distorted to
make the federal courts the supervisor of the state elec-

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DoUGLAS, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

tions. That would place the federal judiciary in a position
"to supervise and review the political administration of a
state government by its own officials and through its own
courts" (Wilson v. North Carolina,169 U. S. 586, 596)matters on which each State has the final say. I also agree
that a candidate for public office is not denied the equal
protection of the law in the constitutional sense merely
because he is the victim of unlawful administration of a
state election law. I believe, as the opinion of the Court
indicates, that a denial of equal protection of the laws requires an invidious, purposeful discrimination. But I depart from the majority when it denies Snowden the opportunity of showing that he was in fact the victim of such
discriminatory action. His complaint seems to me to be
adequate to raise the issue. He charges a conspiracy to
wilfully, maliciously and arbitrarily refuse to designate
him as one of the nominees of the Republican party, that
such action was an "unequal" administration of the Illinois law and a denial to him of the equal protection of the
laws, and that the conspiracy had that purpose. While the
complaint could have drawn the issue more sharply, I
think it defines it sufficiently to survive the motion to
dismiss.
No doubt unconstitutional discriminations against a
class, such as those which we have recently condemned in
Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268, and Skinner v. Oklahoma,
316 U. S. 535, may be more readily established than a discrimination against an individual per se. But though the
proof is exacting, the latter may be shown as in Cochranv.
Kansas,316 U. S. 255, where a prisoner was prevented from
perfecting an appeal. The criteria are the same whether
one has been denied the opportunity to be a candidate for
public office, to enter private business, or to have the protection of the courts. If the law is "applied and administered by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal

THOMSON v. UNITED STATES.
I

Statement of the Case.

hand, so as practically to make unjust and illegal discriminations between persons in similar circumstances" (Yick
Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, 373-374), it is the same as if
the invidious discrimination were incorporated in the law
itself. If the action of the Illinois Board in effect were
the same as an Illinois law that Snowden could not run for
office, it would run afoul of the equal protection clause
whether that discrimination were based on the fact that
Snowden was a Negro, Catholic, Presbyterian, Free Mason,
or had some other characteristic or belief which the authorities did not like. Snowden should be allowed the opportunity to make that showing no matter how thin his
chances of success may seem.

THOMSON, TRUSTEE OF THE PROPERTY OF
THE CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY
CO., v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 70. Argued December 7, 1943-Decided January 17, 1944.
1. In respect of operations by motor vehicle in a coordinated railmotor freight service-the motor vehicles being operated by
contractors under arrangements described in the opinion-only the
railroad was a "common carrier by motor vehicle" entitled to
"grandfather" rights under § 206 (a) of Part II of the Interstate
Commerce Act, since it alone held itself out to the general public
to engage in such service. P. 23.

2. The Commission's so-called "control and responsibility" test, so
far as it leads to a different result, is disapproved. P. 26.
Reversed.
APPEAL from

a decree of a District Court of three judges,
dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, 31 M. C. C. 299.

