UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE BANK.
573

583

Syllabus.

distinction do not exist. It would be difficult to deny the
claims of those who devote their lives to the healing of the
sick, to the nursing of the disabled, to the betterment of
social and economic conditions, and to a myriad other
worthy objects, that their respective callings, albeit they
earn their living by pursuing them, are, for them, the exercise of religion. Such a belief, however earnestly and honestly held, does not entitle the believers to be free of
contribution to the cost of government, which itself guarantees them the privilege of pursuing their callings without governmental prohibition or interference.
We should affirm the judgment.
UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE-FIRST NATIONAL
BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 267. Argued February 7, 8, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
Under authority of § 3 of the National Banking Act, as amended,
and pursuant to a consolidation agreement, a state bank was consolidated in 1935 with a national banking association. The transfer to the consolidated association of title to the property of the
state bank was not evidenced by deed, conveyance, assignment or
other instrument. Held:
1. In respect of (a) securities held by the state bank as legal
and beneficial owner and (b) securities to which the state bank
held legal title in fiduciary capacities, the transfer was "wholly by
operation of law" within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 71
(1932 ed.), Arts. 34 (r) and 35 (r), and thereby exempt from the
stamp tax imposed by § 800, Schedule A, pars. 3 and 9, of the
Revenue Act of 1926, as amended. P. 5S8.
2. The transfer to the consolidated association of the realty of
the state bank was not subject to the stamp tax imposed by § 800,
Schedule A-S, of the Revenue Act of 1926, as amended, since the
property was not conveyed by any "deed, instrument, or writing,"
was not "sold," and there was no "purchaser." P. 589.
136 F. 2d 676, affirmed.
576281-44--41

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTORARI,

321 U. S.

320 U. S. 723, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the plaintiff, 44 F. Supp. 603, in a suit to
recover sums paid as taxes.
Mr. Valentine Brookes, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Messrs. Sewall Key, T.Louis Monarch, and Morton
K. Rothschild were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Arnold L. Graves, with whom Mr. B. H. Kizer was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE MuRPHY delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent initiated this suit to recover the amount of
the documentary stamp tax,penalty and interestwhich had
been exacted under the Revenue Act of 1926, as amended,
in connection with a statutory consolidation of banks under
§ 3 of the National Banking Act.1 The District Court entered judgment for respondent for the amount of the tax
and interest, 44 F. Supp. 603.2 The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the case was governed by one of its former
decisions 3 and affirmed the judgment, 136 F. 2d 676. We
granted certiorari, 320 U. S. 723, because this judgment was
alleged to conflict with decisions in other circuits ' and because of the desirability of a final settlement of the problems involved.
I Act of November 7, 1918, c. 209, 40 Stat. 1043, § 3, as added by the
Act of February 25, 1927, c. 191, 44 Stat. 1224, § 1, and as amended by
the Banking Act of 1933, c. 89, 48 Stat. 162, § 24, and the Banking Act
of 1935, c. 614, 49 Stat. 684, § 331; 12 U. S. C. § 34a.
2Recovery was denied for the $100 penalty, which was paid in compromise of a threatened criminal prosecution, on the ground that the
compromise was a final settlement of the penalty. This matter is not

now before us.
3 United States v. Merchants National Bank, 101 F. 2d 399.
4See City Bank Farmers Trust Co. v. Hoey, 125 F. 2d 577; State
Street Trust Co. v. Hassett, 134 F. 2d 156.

UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE BANK.
583

585

Opinion of the Court.

In 1935 the directors of the Spokane and Eastern Trust
Company, a state bank, entered into a written agreement
of consolidation with the directors of the First National
Bank of Seattle. The agreement provided that the banks
were to be consolidated under the charter of the First National Bank of Seattle and under the new corporate title of
Seattle-First National Bank, the respondent herein. The
agreement was ratified and confirmed by the requisite
number of stockholders of both banks and the Comptroller
of the Currency issued the necessary certificate of approval, reciting that the directors and shareholders of both
banks had complied with the provisions of the National
Banking Act.
The state bank owned real estate, including its banking premises, as well as corporate stocks and bonds, to all
of which it held legal and beneficial title as part of its corporate assets. It also held in trust certain stocks and
bonds, the legal title to which was vested in it as trustee,
executor, administrator, guardian, or in other fiduciary
capacities. Section 5 of the consolidation agreement provided that "All assets of each association at the date of
consolidation shall pass to and vest in the consolidated
association, and the consolidated association shall be responsible for all of the liabilities of every kind and description of each of the consolidating associations."
The transfer to respondent of title to this property held
by the state bank was not evidenced by any deed, conveyance, assignment or other instrument. Nor were any documentary stamps purchased or affixed with respect to such
transfer. Subsequently, a deputy collector examined the
bank records and exacted a tax from respondent on the
theory that the consolidation had resulted in a taxable
transfer. The necessary stamps were purchased and affixed and this suit for refund followed.
First. We conclude that, as to the securities to which
the state bank held both legal and beneficial title, there

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

was no taxable transfer under the stamp tax provisions
in effect at the time the consolidation took place.
Section 800, Schedule A-3, of the Revenue Act of 1926,
as amended,5 imposes a stamp tax on transfers of legal
title to any shares of stock or certificates, "whether made
upon or shown by the books of the corporation or other
organization, or by any assignment in blank, or by any delivery, or by any paper or agreement or memorandum or
other evidence of transfer or sale (whether entitling the
holder in any manner to the benefit of such share, certificate . . . or not)." Schedule A-9 6 imposes a stamp
tax on similar transfers of legal title to bonds.
Standing alone, these statutory provisions make no exceptions and clearly impose a tax on the transfer of title
to the securities legally and beneficially owned by the
state bank. But administrative regulations, which until
recently have been left undisturbed by subsequently enacted legislation and are to be respected as settled
administrative practice have carved out certain exemptions germane to the transfer here involved. Thus
Article 34 (r) of Treasury Regulations 71 (1932 ed.)
provides that the transfer of stock owned by a corporation which is merged into another corporation is subject
to the stamp tax, "such a transfer being effected by the
5 C. 27, 44 Stat. 9, as amended by § 723 (a) of the Revenue Act of
1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169.
6C. 27, 44 Stat. 9, as added by § 724 (a) of the Revenue Act of
1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, and as amended by § 212 of the National
Industrial Recovery Act, c. 90, 48 Stat. 195, and as amended by Pub.
Res. No. 36, c. 333, 49 Stat. 431.
7
Substantially similar regulations were promulgated under the
Revenue Act of 1926 and were in effect when Congress, in the
Revenue Act of 1932, reenacted the stamp tax provisions in issue.
Congress did not see fit to amend or change these regulations until
the Revenue Act of 1942, §§ 506 (b) (1) and (2), c. 619, 56 Stat. 958,
See Helvering v. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 306 U. S.110, 115.

UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE BANK.
583

587

Opinion of the Court.

act of the parties and not wholly by operation of law." 8
Article 35 (r) specifically exempts from the tax those
transfers of shares or certificates of stock "which result
wholly by operation of law"; it further states that "transfers of this character are those which the law itself will
effect without any voluntary act of the parties, such as
transfer of stock from decedent to executor." Article 120
makes these same provisions applicable to sales or transfers of bonds. The problem thus resolves itself into a
determination of whether the transfer of the state bank's
securities to respondent occurred "wholly by operation of
law" so as to exempt the transfer from the stamp tax
requirements.
It is clear that the consolidation or merger of the national bank and the state bank occurred through the voluntary acts of the respective directors and stockholders
pursuant to the provisions of § 3 of the National Banking
Act, with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency. If the words "wholly by operation of law," as
used in the administrative regulations, refer here to the
entire process of consolidation, of which the transfer of
securities is an essential part, the exemption cannot be
applied. But in a broad sense, few if any transfers ever
take place "wholly by operation of law," for every transfer must necessarily be a part of a chain of human events,
rarely if ever other than voluntary in character. Thus to
give any real substance to the exemption, we must take
a more narrow view and examine the transfer apart from
its general background. We must look only to the immediate mechanism by which the transfer is made ef8

While the grammatical construction of the quoted clause gives
rise to some doubt as to its meaning, we interpret it in accord with
Article 35 (r) so as to impose a tax on transfers arising out of mergers only if the transfer occurs by the act of the parties and not
wholly by operation of law.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

fective. If that mechanism is entirely statutory, effecting
an automatic transfer without any voluntary action by
the parties, then the transfer may truly be said to be
"wholly by operation of law."
Here the actual transfer to respondent of the legal
and beneficial title to the securities owned by the state
bank was not effected by or dependent on any of the voluntary acts relating to the consolidation agreement or
the ratification or approval thereof. Nor was any voluntary deed, conveyance, assignment or other instrument
utilized. Rather the transfer occurred solely and automatically by virtue of § 3 of the National Banking Act.
This provides in pertinent part that: (1) upon consolidation, the corporate existence of each of the constituent
banks shall be merged and continued in the consolidated
national banking association, which shall be deemed to
be the same corporation as the constituent banks; (2)
all the rights, franchises and interests of each constituent
bank in and to every species of property, real, personal
and mixed, and choses in action thereto belonging, "shall
be deemed to be transferred to and vested in" the consolidated association without any deed or other transfer;
(3) the consolidated association, by virtue of such consolidation and without any order or other action by any
court or otherwise, shall hold and enjoy the same and all
rights of property, franchises and interests (including
fiduciary interests) in the same manner and to the same
extent as held and enjoyed by the constituent banks.
Thus it is the National Banking Act that is the mechanism by which the transfer of securities is made effective.
No voluntary act by the parties is necessary. It follows
that the transfer occurred "wholly by operation of law."
The mere fact that the parties here saw fit to include in
their consolidation agreement a provision that all assets
of each constituent bank "shall pass to and vest in the
consolidated association" does not make the transfer any

UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE BANK.
583

589

Opinion of the Court.

less than one "wholly by operation of law." This was
merely an agreement that the assets would be transferred in the future and did not purport to be a present,
effective conveyance. The transfer of the securities to
which the state bank held legal and beneficial title was
therefore exempt from the stamp tax under Articles 34
(r) and 35 (r).
Second. We reach the same conclusion as to the transfer of securities to which the state bank held legal title
in trust in various fiduciary capacities. The intent to tax
such transfers must be clear and unmistakable. No such
intent is apparent here. Under § 3 of the National Banking Act, these securities passed to respondent "wholly by
operation of law" just as did the securities previously
discussed. Articles 34 (r) and 35 (r) make no distinction
between transfers of stocks from a fiduciary and transfers
from one who is also the beneficial owner. The exemption
therein contained is therefore applicable
Third. The transfer of the real property owned by the
state bank is likewise, in our opinion, exempt from the
stamp tax.
Section 800, Schedule A-8, of the Revenue Act of 1926,
as amended," places a stamp tax on "Conveyances: Deed,
instrument, or writing, delivered . . .whereby any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold shall be granted, assigned,
transferred, or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the
9 Because of the clear applicability of Articles 34 (r) and 35 (r),
we have no occasion to determine the applicability here of Article
35 (h), which exempts from the stamp tax "the transfer of stock
from the name of a deceased or resigned trustee to the name of a
substituted trustee appointed in accordance with the terms of the
original trust agreement, which is a transfer resulting wholly by
operation of law."
10 C. 27, 44 Stat. 9, as added by § 725 of the Revenue Act of 1932,
and as amended by § 212 of the National Industrial Recovery Act,
and as amended by Pub. Res. No. 36, c. 333, 49 Stat. 431.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

purchaser or purchasers . . ." It is clear, however, from
§ 3 of the National Banking Act that the state bank's
realty was not conveyed to or vested in respondent by
means of any deed, instrument or writing. There was
a complete absence of any of the formal instruments or
writings upon which the stamp tax is laid. Nor can the
realty be said to have been "sold" or vested in a "purchaser or purchasers" within the ordinary meanings of
those terms. Only by straining the realities of the statutory consolidation process can respondent be said to have
"bought" or "purchased" the real property. That we are
unable to do.
The judgment of the court below is therefore
Affirmed.

TENNESSEE COAL, IRON & RAILROAD CO.
v. MUSCODA LOCAL No. 123 .TAL.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 409. Argued January 13, 14, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. The Fair Labor Standards Act is remedial and humanitarian in
nature and must not be interpreted or applied in a narrow, grudging
manner. P. 597.
2. Sections 7 (a), 3 (g) and 3 (j)of the Fair Labor Standards Act
are necessarily indicative of a Congressional intention to guarantee
either regular or overtime compensation for all actual work or
employment. P. 597.
3. In the absence of a contrary legislative expression, it must be
assumed that Congress in the Fair Labor Standards Act was
referring to work or employment as those words are commonly
used-as meaning physical or mental exertion (whether burdensome or not) controlled or required by the employer and pursued
necessarily and primarily for the benefit of the employer and his
business. P. 598.
4. Underground travel by iron ore miners to and from the "working
face" of the mines, held, upon the facts of this case as found by

