FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
233

253

Statement of the Case.

incident to this exercise of authority, require the banks to
file reports of inactive accounts, as the statute directs.
Waite v. Dowley, supra; Colorado Bank v. Bedford, 310
U. S. 41, 53.
Affirmed.

FLOURNOY, SHERIFF AND EX-OFFICIO TAX
COLLECTOR, v. WIENER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 252. Argued February 4, 7, 1944-Decided February 28, 1944.
1. Upon review of a decision of a state court, either on appeal or
on certiorari, this Court will not pass upon or consider federal questions not assigned as error or designated in the points to be relied
upon, even though they were properly presented to and passed upon
by the state court. P. 259.
2. The state court having rested its decision in this case upon (1) the
invalidity of the federal Act under the Fifth Amendment and (2)
the invalidity of the state Act under the Fourteenth Amendment,
either of which grounds was adequate to support the judgment; and
the appellant having assigned as error only the Fifth Amendment
question; and the Fourteenth Amendment question not having been
briefed or argued by either party in this Court,--held that, upon the
record, this Court was without jurisdiction to decide either question,
and the cause must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Pp. 258,
261.
3. Appellant having assigned as error the decision of the state court
holding the federal Act invalid, the case is properly an appeal,
and appellant could have included in his assignments of error any
other denial of federal right whether or not capable in itself of being
brought here by appeal; or he could have filed a petition for writ of
certiorari in addition to his appeal. But since he failed to raise or
brief in this Court any question as to the validity of the state
statute under the Fourteenth Amendment, this Court has no
jurisdiction of the case either on certiorari or on appeal, and there
is no occasion for the application of Jud. Code § 237 (c). P. 263.
203 La. 649, 14 So. 2d 475, appeal dismissed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment which held
unconstitutional, as applied to the appellees, a state inheritance tax statute.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Mr. LeonardL. Lockard, with whom Mr. Eugene Stanley, Attorney General of Louisiana, was on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Sidney L. Herold for appellees.
By special leave of Court, Assistant Attorney General
Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Messrs. Sewall Key, Carlton Fox, and Alvin J. Rockwell,
and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae,urging dismissal of the
appeal and upholding the constitutionality of § 402 (b) of
the Revenue Act of 1942. Mr. Max Radin argued the
cause on behalf of the States of Arizona, California, Idaho,
Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, and Washington, and the
Oklahoma Tax Commission (with him on the brief were
the Attorneys General of those States and Mr. E. L.
Mitchell), and Messrs. Joseph D. Brady, George Donworth, Charles E. Dunbar, Jr., Palmer Hutcheson, J. P.
Jackson, Gerald Jones, Samuel H. Morris, and Harry C.
Weeks filed a brief, as amici curiae,-urgingaffirmance.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE SToE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), from a judgment
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, appellant assigning as error that that court had held invalid, as in violation of the Fifth Amendment, § 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 942. On considering the jurisdictional statement filed by appellant pursuant to Rule 12
of the Rules of this Court, we postponed decision of the
jurisdictional questions to the argument on the merits.
Section 237 (a) of the Judicial Code authorizes an appeal
to this Court from a judgment of the highest court of the
state "where is drawn in question" the validity of a statute
of the United States and the decision is against its validity.

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

255

Opinion of the Court.

The error assigned is therefore one cognizable on appeal.
The question for our decision is whether, the state court
having rested its decision and judgment upon two independent grounds, each adequate to support the decision
but only one of which appellant has assigned as error on
appeal to this Court, we have jurisdiction to decide
either.

Appellees, children and sole legatees of Wiener, who had
died a resident of Louisiana, leaving his widow surviving,
brought the present proceeding in the District Court for
the First Judicial District of Louisiana to establish the
amount of the state inheritance tax on the interest acquired
by them under the will of decedent. Under state law they
cannot be placed in possession of the property inherited by
them until they have paid the tax. Act No. 127 of the
Extra Session of 1921 as amended by Act No. 44 of 1922;
see § 3 of Act No. 119 of 1932. So far as material here, the
amount of their liability for the tax depends upon the
meaning and application of Act No. 119 of the Louisiana
Acts of 1932, Louisiana Code of Practice, Arts. 996.89996.94, and of § 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1942.
Act No. 119 directs the levy, in addition to existing inheritance taxes, of "an estate transfer tax upon all estates which
are subject to taxation under the Federal Revenue Act of
1926." The Act provides that whenever the aggregate
amount of all inheritance, succession, legacy and estate
taxes actually paid to the several states of the United
States in respect to any property owned by the decedent
shall be less than 80% of the estate tax payable to the
United States under the provisions of the Revenue Act of
1926, the difference between that amount and 80% shall be
paid to Louisiana.'
'The purpose of the Act, declared by § 4, was to secure for the state
the benefit of the credit allowed by § 301 (b) of the Revenue Act of
1926, 26 U. S. C. § 813 (b), which allowed the taxpayer a credit against
the estate tax imposed by that Act for estate, inheritance or legacy

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Section 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1942 amends
§ 811 (e) of the Internal Revenue Code, which was derived
from § 302 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1926, so as to include
in the gross estate of decedent for purposes of the federal
estate tax, property
"to the extent of the interest therein held as community
property by the decedent and surviving spouse under the
law of any State, Territory, or possession of the United
States, or any foreign country, except such part thereof
as may be shown to have been received as compensation
for personal services actually rendered by the surviving
spouse or derived originally from such compensation or
from separate property of the surviving spouse."
Relying on these statutory provisions appellant, who is
charged by state law with the duty of collecting the state
inheritance tax, set up by his answer that the State of
Louisiana is entitled to recover an inheritance tax equal
to 80% of the basic federal estate tax, which by § 402 (b)
(2) of the Revenue Act of 1942, is to be computed upon
the entire community, and prayed judgment against appellees for an inheritance tax so computed.
To this answer appellees interposed pleas that the inheritance tax demanded of them, insofar as it is measured
by the interest of the widow in the community, is unconstitutional for want of the uniformity prescribed by § 8
of Article I of the Constitution, and is a denial of due
process, in contravention of the Fifth Amendment, in
that it taxes property not belonging to decedent and not
acquired by appellees under the will. The District Court
sustained these pleas on the grounds assigned and gave
judgment accordingly.
It will be observed that although the federal estate
tax, laid on all the property included in the taxable estate
taxes actually paid to a state or territory or the District of Columbia,
and provided that the total credit for such taxes should not exceed
80% of the federal estate tax payable.

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

257

Opinion of the Court.

of the decedent, is payable by the estate,' the effect of appellant's contention in both state courts was that Act No.
119 had, by virtue of § 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of
1942, imposed an inheritance tax measured by the entire
community property and had authorized collection of
that entire tax from the decedent's legatees. The case
thus presented not only the question whether a tax could
constitutionally be imposed on the entire community
property on the death of the husband, but also the further
question, not necessarily governed by the federal Act, cf.
Riggs v. Del Drago, 317 U. S. 95, whether the entire tax
could be collected from those who inherit from the decedent, although they took no interest in the share of the
community property retained by the surviving spouse.
On appeal to the state Supreme Court the Attorney
General of the United States was allowed to intervene;
on the argument there he urged that the validity of § 402
(b) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1942 was not in question,
but that the only issue before the court was the validity
of Act No. 119 under the Fourteenth Amendment, if construed and applied in the manner contended for by appellant. Appellees accordingly were allowed to amend their
plea of unconstitutionality so as to plead in the alternative that if Act No. 119 were construed so as to impose
on them an inheritance tax measured by the entire
community property it would violate the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana affirmed the judgment
of the District Court but for different reasons. 203 La.
649, 14 So. 2d 475. It held that "the construction sought
to be placed on Act No. 119 of 1932 by the tax collector
. . . would render it violative of the due process guaran2

The tax is made a lien on the gross estate, which includes the entire community property here, Internal Revenue Code § 827 (a), and
is a personal liability of the wife to the extent of the interest acquired by her, Revenue Act of 1942, § 411,

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

teed by the 14th amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, since such interpretation would result in
the imposition of a tax upon those succeeding to the estate
of a decedent measured in part by the property comprising the estate of another, to which the estate of the decedent is in no way related." For this conclusion it relied
upon Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206, holding
that a state graduated income tax measured by the joint
income of husband and wife violated the Fourteenth
Amendment. It said that the tax was there held invalid
because "any attempt by a state to measure the tax on
one person's property or income by reference to the property or income of another is contrary to due process of
law as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment."
The Court thus made an alternative decision that either
Act No. 119 did not impose on appellees a tax on property
not bequeathed to them or that if it did it violated the
Fourteenth Amendment. But it also went on to hold
that "the limitation placed upon the state by the Fourteenth Amendment is likewise placed on the Federal Government by the Fifth Amendment" and that § 402 (b)
of the Revenue Act of 1942, which appellant, by interpretation of Act No. 119, had contended was the measure
of the tax to be imposed on appellees, is likewise a violation of the Fifth Amendment if interpreted so as to tax
the entire community property here.
Appellant, in his assignments of error here, made no
mention of the ruling of the state Supreme Court that
Act No. 119, as construed and sought to be applied by
him, violates the Fourteenth Amendment. He assigned
as error the Supreme Court's decision that § 402 (b) (2)
of the Revenue Act of 1942 violates the Fifth Amendment.
He also asserted that it had erred "in denying legal efficacy" to that provision of the Revenue Act which required
the valuation of all the community property of decedent
and his surviving spouse in the computation of the fed-

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

Opinion of the Court.

eral estate tax. But in his "Statement of the points on
which he intends to rely," filed pursuant to paragraph 9
of Rule 13 of this Court, he stated, "the only issue before
the Court, and the point on which he intends to rely is
that the Act of Congress held by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana to be unconstitutional, to-wit Section 402 (b)
(2) of the Revenue Act of 1942, approved October 21,
1942, is constitutional and that the Supreme Court of
Louisiana erred in holding said statute to be violative of
the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution."
Rule 9 of this Court's Rules requires the appellant in
all cases to file assignments of error "which shall set out
separately and particularly each error asserted," and paragraph 9 of Rule 13, requiring the statement of points to
be relied upon, provides that "The Court will consider
nothing but the points of law so stated." See also Rule
27, par. 6. It is a familiar rule, consistently followed, that
upon appeal from a state court this Court will not pass
upon or consider federal questions not assigned as error
or designated in the points to be relied upon even though
properly presented to and passed upon by the state court.
O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323, 331; New York v. Kleinert, 268 U. S. 646, 651; Herbring v. Lee, 280 U. S. 111, 117;
Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 91;

Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167, 172;
Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584, 592. The rule is the same
in the case of applications for certiorari. Rule 38, par. 2;
General PicturesCorp. v. Western Electric Co., 304 U. S.
175, 179; National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S.
350, 357.
There is a special reason why this practice should be
followed here. Doubtless because of appellant's disclaimer, in his points to be relied upon, of a purpose to
present any but the Fifth Amendment question, appellees
have proceeded on argument and in briefs in this Court
on the assumption that only the Fifth Amendment ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tion was before us. Appellant's only mention of the impact of the tax on appellees is to say that "they have been
victimized by the state law not the federal law." And
he has made no effort to sustain the constitutionality
of the imposition by the state of the entire burden of the
tax on appellees. This is important because on the present record the two questions as to the constitutionality of
the state and federal statutes are materially different in
point of substance and in kind. The Fifth Amendment
is relevant only because the federal tax on community
property is made the measure of the tax which Louisiana,
not the federal government, imposes upon appellees. If
the federal tax on community property infringes the Fifth
Amendment then obviously that property is not "subject
to taxation under the Federal Revenue Act" as the Louisiana Act requires, and there is wanting the taxable subject
matter upon which the Louisiana statute purports to
impose the tax, namely community property which is
subject to a federal tax.
It is not the federal but the state statute which imposes
the tax on appellees, and the Fourteenth Amendment
question in this case is not merely that the state statute,
like the federal statute, imposes the tax on a subject matter which is not constitutionally taxable, but that the state
statute does something which, as we have seen, the federal
statute does not do, namely imposes on appellees an inheritance tax which includes in its measure some of the
community property which they do not receive. As already pointed out, this was the question raised by appellees' supplemental plea of unconstitutionality, allowed
and decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. By it
they challenged, as a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, the imposition on them of an "inheritance tax"
"based or measured upon the value of the entire community." Even though it were decided that the federal
statute validly imposes the tax on decedent's estate with

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

Opinion of the Court.

its burden distributed among all those entitled to share
in the estate as the state law may provide, see Riggs v.
Del Drago, supra, the question would remain for decision
whether the Fourteenth Amendment permits the particular distribution for which appellant contends, requiring appellees to bear all the tax although they share in
only part of the estate on which it is laid.
But this question is not before us because appellant, by
his statement of points to be relied on, has affirmatively
excluded it from consideration on this appeal and has
limited himself to the different question arising under the
Fifth Amendment. In any case we ought not to consider
it here because in reliance upon this declaration neither
party has briefed or argued it in this Court. Rule 27,
paragraph 6 declares that errors not urged in the briefs
will be disregarded. And, independently of "technical"
rules it is not the habit of this Court to decide important
constitutional questions which the parties have not presented, briefed or argued.
It is apparent that the decision of the single question
arising under the Fifth Amendment, cannot, in the present
state of the record, be dispositive of the case. The only
tax here sought to be imposed is the state inheritance tax
authorized by Act No. 119. The state court having held
that that Act is either inapplicable or, if applicable, is an
infringement of the Fourteenth Amendment, any ruling
we could make as to the validity of § 402 (b) (2) could
afford no basis for affirming, modifying or setting aside
the decision of the state court that by reason of the invalidity or inapplicability of Act No. 119, the tax demanded cannot be imposed.
Any determination which we might make of the Fifth
Amendment question would thus leave unaffected the
state court's judgment brought here for review. Our opinion on that subject would be advisory only, since there is
nothing before us on which we could render a decision

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

that would have any controlling effect on the rights of
the parties. Hence the case stands in the same posture
as those in which we have repeatedly held that where the
judgment of a state court rests in part on a non-federal
ground adequate to support it, this Court will not consider
the correctness of the decision which the state court also
made of a federal question otherwise reviewable here.
Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S. 45, 53; Enterprise
IrrigationDist. v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 163-4; Lynch
v. New York, 293 U. S. 52, 54-5; Fox Film Corp. v. Muller, 296 U. S. 207, 210-11. In such a case this Court has
said that it will not enter "a useless and profitless reversal" "where the same judgment will be rendered by the
court below, after they have corrected the error in the federal question." Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall.
590, 634-5. Compare Pugh v. McCormick, 14 Wall. 361,
374. For like reasons we have refused to answer questions
certified to us by a lower federal court where it appears
that the answer cannot affect the result, United States v.
Buzzo, 18 Wall. 125, 129; United States v. Britton, 108
U. S. 199, 207; Lederer v. McGarvey, 271 U. S. 342, 344.
See also the rules stated in New Orleansv. Emsheimer, 181
U. S. 153; New York Telephone Co. v. Maltbie, 291 U. S.
645; Lindheimer v. Illinois Tel. Co., 292 U. S. 151, 176;
and in Hirabayashiv. United States, 320 U. S. 81, 85, and
cases cited.
The cause is accordingly dismissed for want of jurisdiction. In the view we take of the case we do not reach the
question whether the appeal should not also be dismissed
because of doubt whether the decision of the Louisiana
Supreme Court as to Act No. 119 rests on a holding that
the Act violates the Fourteenth Amendment, or merely
that it is inapplicable as a matter of construction of a state
statute not reviewable here. With that left in doubt, we
could not say that the decision of the state Supreme Court
does not rest on a non-federal ground adequate to support

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

RAwFmrR ER,

J., di&senting.

it. Compare Lynch v. New York, supra, 55; Honeyman
v. Hanan, 300 U. S. 14; Bakery & Pastry Drivers Local
v. Wohl, 313 U. S. 572; New York ex rel. Rogalski v. Martin, 320 U. S. 767, with State Tax Commission v. Van
Cott, 306 U. S. 511; Minnesota v. National Tea Co., 309
U. S. 551; StandardOil Co. v. Johnson, 316 U. S. 481.
Appellant having assigned as error the decision of the
Louisiana Supreme Court holding the federal Act invalid,
the case is properly an appeal, and appellant could have
included in his assignments of error any other denial of
federal right whether or not capable in itself of being
brought here by appeal. Prudential Insurance Co. v.
Cheek, 259 U. S. 530, 547. Or he could have filed a petition for writ of certiorari in addition to his appeal. Columbus & Greenville Ry. Co. v. Miller, 283 U. S. 93, 98.
But since he failed to raise or brief in this Court any question as to the validity of the Louisiana statute under the
Fourteenth Amendment, we have no jurisdiction of the
case either on certiorari or on appeal, and there is no occasion for the application of Judicial Code, § 237 (c), 28
U. S. C. § 344 (c). See Robertson and Kirkham, Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States, p. 40,
and cases cited.
Dismissed.
IR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, with whom MR. JusTiCE

RoBERTS and Mu. JUSTICE JACKSON concur, dissenting:
If this appeal were dismissed summarily I should remain silent. But opinions on the jurisdiction of this Court
must serve as guides for the bar as well as for all other
courts. Therefore the reasons for my inability to concur
in the Court's views, involving as they do general considerations, call for somewhat detailed expression.
1. The law of the jurisdiction of this Court raises problems of a highly technical nature. But underlying their
solution are matters of substance in the practical working
576281--44------21

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxFURTER,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

of our dual system and in the effective conduct of the business of this Court. While therefore the disposition of jurisdictional questions involves specialized knowledge, we
are not dealing with problems the answers to which depend on the use of talismanic words or on the observance
of rigid forms. On no one I venture to believe has the
conviction stronger hold than on me that it is important
to postpone constitutional adjudications and therefore
constitutional conflicts until they are judicially unavoidable, or to keep them, when unavoidable, within the strict
confines of a specific case. That is why we should be uncompromising in observing the limits of our authority and
should avoid laxity in assuming jurisdiction. See 49
Harv. L. Rev. 68, 90-107. But the duties of this Court
do not hang on the thread of mere verbalism.
2. We do not review a case from a state court which
can be supported on a non-federal ground because federal
authority ought not to intrude upon the domain of the
States. This far-reaching political consideration was
decisive even after the Civil War in settling the rule that
not only do we not review a case from a state court that
can rest on a purely state ground, but we do not even
review state questions in a case that is properly here
from a state court on a federal ground. Murdock v.
Memphis, 20 Wall. 590.
3. The requirement of assignment of errors in order to
invoke our reviewing power rests on a wholly different
consideration. "The purpose is to enable the court as
well as opposing counsel, readily to perceive what points
are relied on." Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, 287
U. S. 86, 91. Of course, when the error complained of is
a rejection of a claim of the invalidity of a state statute
under the United States Constitution, the claim must
have been effectively pressed before the state court and
rejected by it. But the requirement is not for some abra-

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

FhNvwTRn

, J., dksenting.

cadabra. The nub of the matter is found in Bryant v.
Zimmerman, 278 U. S. 63, 67:
"There are various ways in which the validity of a state
statute may be drawn in question on the ground that it
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
No particular form of words or phrases is essential, but
only that the claim of invalidity and the ground therefor
be brought to the attention of the state court with fair
precision and in due time. And if thxe record as a whole
shows either expressly or by clear intendment that this
was done, the claim is to be regarded as having been
adequately presented."
4. These general considerations bring us to the particular case. Its reviewability here is questioned on
numerous grounds. Any one of them would be conclusive.
Apparently, however, a cloud of unreviewability is compounded by intermingling doubts on several scores. If
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana can rest
on a non-federal ground there is an end of the matter.
If that court went off on the constitutionality of a federal
statute when that statute was not drawn into question
again there is an end to the matter. If the judgment in
fact rested on the validity of a state statute urged to be
repugnant to the United States Constitution, the case
could come here but only if the claim of invalidity was
properly presented and duly rejected by the state court.
And even then such error could be urged here only if
brought before this Court by revealing assignment of
errors. If that requirement were not met, again the
appeal would call for dismissal.
5. This controversy "concerns the constitutional validity of an act of Congress"-§ 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue
Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, 942-"which is directly drawn
in question. The decision depends upon the determination of this issue." Smith v. Kansas City Title Co., 255

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRXi

RTMm,
J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

U. S. 180, 201. This is so, that is, unless we wish to overrule the Kansas City Title case as well as the recent unanimous decision in Standard Oil Co. v. Johnson, 316 U. S.
481, and adopt the dissenting views of Mr. Justice Holmes
in the Kansas City Title case, supraat 213. In any event,
however, the decision of the Louisiana Supreme Court
cannot be supported on a non-federal ground and does
involve the validity of a state statute under the United
States Constitution. Finally the assignment of errors,
the order allowing appeal and the statement of points on
which appellant relied satisfy the reasons for our Rules 9
and 13 (9). All three considerations are intertwined in
the distinctive circumstances of this case and they establish our jurisdiction, once the cause of this litigation is kept
in mind and our jurisdictional requirements are not turned
into formalism "run riot."
6. What then was in issue in this litigation and what
issue was determined in the judgment that was brought
here? The tax collector claimed that "the heirs of Sam
Wiener, Jr., owe an inheritance tax on the entire community estate rather than upon the one-half interest in
the community inherited by them" for the reason that
"by virtue of Act No. 119 of the Legislature of Louisiana
for the year 1932, the State of Louisiana is ultimately entitled to recover an inheritance tax against this estate
which is equal to eighty per cent of the basic federal tax
as fixed by the Federal Revenue Act of 1926,"
and that
"Congress in the Revenue Act of 1942, (Title IV, Sec.
402A, 56 Statutes 798, Title 26, Sec. 811, U. S. C. A.) provides that the basic Federal Estate Tax is computed upon
the entire community and accordingly, the State of Louisiana is entitled to an amount equal to eighty per cent of the
basic Federal Estate Tax so calculated." (R. 8)
The claim of the State for an inheritance tax in a sum
equal to 80% of the tax due to the Federal Government as

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

FRKFumT,

J., dissenting.

computed in part under § 402 (b) (2) was thus based on
the interdependence between the Louisiana Act No. 119
and § 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1942. The latter
was incorporated by reference into the former. The two
became inseparable for purposes of construction-in a case
like the present a decision involving Act No. 119 inescapably depended upon the determination of the validity of
§ 402 (b) (2).' Such was the issue tendered by the State,
and issue was joined by the appellees' plea of unconstitutionality:
"notwithstanding anything to the contrary that may be
contained in the Federal Revenue Act of 1942, approved
on October 21, 1942, there may not be included in the
estate of the decedent, subject to the Federal Estate Tax
(and consequently subject to the provisions of the State
Inheritance Tax under Act 119 of 1932) any property except that which was owned by the decedent at the instant
of his death, and by his death transmitted to his heirs."

(R. 9)
I Section 2 of Act No. 119 of the Louisiana Acts of 1932 provides that
"Whenever the aggregate amount of all inheritance, succession, legacy
and estate taxes actually paid to the several states of the United States
in respect to any property owned by such decedent shall be less than
eighty per cent ($0%) of the estate tax payable to the United States
under the provisions of the said Federal Revenue Act of 1926, but not
otherwise, the difference between said amount and said eighty per cent
(80%) shall be paid to the State of Louisiana."
Section 302 of the Revenue Act of 1926 as amended by § 402 (b) (2)
of the Revenue Act of 1942, includes in the gross estate property, "To
the extent of the interest therein held as community property by the
decedent and surviving spouse under the law of any State, Territory,
or possession of the United States, or any foreign country, except such
part thereof as may be shown to have been received as compensation
for personal services actually rendered by the surviving spouse or
derived originally from such compensation or from separate property
of the surviving spouse. In no case shall such interest included in
the gross estate of the decedent be less than the value of such part of
the community property as was subject to the decedent's power of
testamentary disposition." 44 Stat. (part 2) 9, 70; 56 Stat. 798, 942.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FnN FuRTm, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

In this plea the constitutional invalidity of the federal
act was challenged as follows:
"Such statutory provision is in contravention of and violative of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, in that its application would deprive these
appearers of their property without due process of law
by its imposition of taxes upon them, based both upon an
arbitrary inclusion in the estate of the decedent of property which did not belong to him and upon the application
thereto of graduated rates based upon values arrived at by
reference to such other property." (R. 10)
7. Putting to one side the claim of unconstitutionality
of § 402 (b) (2) for want of uniformity, this is the issue
which persists throughout the litigation-the issue arising from the claim of constitutional invalidity under the
Fifth Amendment of the method of computing the federal estate tax according to the Amendment of 1942 inasmuch as the state inheritance tax is concededly ascertained
through the ascertainment of the federal estate tax. This
was the issue raised by the pleadings in the First Judicial
District Court of Louisiana; this was the issue tendered by
the agreed statement of facts before that court (R. 11,
particularly par. 4); this was the issue which that court
decided against the State because it found a statute of
Congress "violative of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in that its application here
would deprive the heirs of the decedent of their property
without due process of law" (R. 13); this was the issue
formulated by both parties in their appeal to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana (R. 14, 16); on the basis of this issue
that court invited the Attorney General of the United
States to appear as amicus curiae. After the Attorney
General, so appearing, suggested for the first time that
"the tax liability here in issue is only that imposed by the
state statute," appellees

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

269

FaINxFURTn, J., dissenting.

"Without in any manner conceding the correctness of
that position, but on the contrary expressly reaffirming
that this cause involves and depends upon the constitutionality of the federal statute,"
amended their plea of unconstitutionality, with the State's
consent, by adding also an attack upon the validity of the
state statutes "either alone or in conjunction with the
federal statute" (R. 18).
By this process the case reached the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. No one can read that court's opinion and be
left in any doubt that Louisiana Act No. 119 of 1932 and
§ 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1942 were treated
inseparably and the validity of the former made to depend on the fate of the latter. Two passages give the
pith of the opinion:
"Now, because of the Congressional adoption of Section 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act, amending Section
811 (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, 26 U. S.
C. A. Int. Rev. Code § 811 (e), the tax collector of Caddo
parish is contending inheritance and estate taxes in this
state, under Act No. 119 of 1932, must be computed on
the basis established in that section."
"we are asked to place an interpretation on Act No. 119
of 1932 and Section 402 (b) (2) of the Revenue Act of
1942 that would result in the inclusion in the estate of
the managing partner of an interest in the community
partnership to which he never had any claim and which
was, in fact, during his lifetime and is now, owned by his
wife." 203 La. 649, 656, 669-70.
On this showing the lower court concluded that § 402
(b) (2) offends the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment, and therefore the reliance of the State upon
§ 402 (b) (2) as read into Act No. 119 made the latter
Act offensive to the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANKFURn R,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

8. The invalidity, because wanting in due process, of
§ 402 (b) (2) infused into Act No. 119, is the issue that
runs like a silver thread unbroken and unalloyed through
this litigation as it took its course from the First Judicial
District Court of Louisiana to the State Supreme Court
and from there to this Court. This makes it abundantly
clear why the errors were assigned as they were-claims
of error in holding that § 402 (b) (2) is unconstitutional
and in denying
"legal efficacy to the provisions of Section 402 (b) (2) of
the Federal Revenue Act of 1942 as requiring the valuation of all of the community property standing in the name
of the decedent, Sam Wiener, Jr., in the computation of
the federal basic estate tax; and, consequently, in the
computation of the inheritance tax due to the State of
Louisiana which, under the statute of the state, is required to be eighty percent of the amount of the federal
basic estate tax." (R. 32, Assignment of Errors, 2.)
Because such was the issue and because the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana determined that issue,
the order allowing appeal recites that "there was drawn
in question the validity of Section 402 (b) (2) of the Federal Revenue Act of 1942," (R. 33). Such having been
the issue and such its determination, appellant naturally
set it forth in his statement of the points on which he
intended to rely. (R. 35)
9. If a federal claim was drawn in question in Smith v.
Kansas City Title Co., supra,and StandardOil Co. v. Johnson, supra,it was not less drawn in question in this case.
If the earlier two decisions are to continue to stand, I am
unable to make a differentiation between them and the
record before us.2 Much is to be said for the reasoning
2The

Kansas City Title case was a suit by a Missouri shareholder
of a Missouri trust company to enjoin the directors from buying
bonds of Federal Land Banks and Joint Stock Land Banks on the

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

FRA

URtmTER,
J., dissenting.

of Mr. Justice Holmes in the Kansas City Title case in
urging that the incorporation of a federal act into a state
law nevertheless makes the suit, for purposes of our jurisdiction, one arising under the state and not under the
federal law. But his view was rejected. In the recent
Standard Oil case we had an opportunity to adopt his
view and reject that of the Court in the Kansas City Title
case. Instead, we unanimously applied the reasoning of
theory that the statutes authorizing the banks and bonds being unconstitutional, the bonds were not lawful securities for investment
purposes. The Court held that this was a statement of a cause of
action arising under the laws of the United States. The meaning of
the Court's holding is clearly indicated by the view which was rejected.
"The defendant is a Missouri corporation and the right claimed is
that of a stockholder to prevent the directors from doing an act,
that is, making an investment, alleged to be contrary to their duty.
But the scope of their duty depends upon the charter of their corporation and other laws of Missouri. If those laws had authorized
the investment in terms the plaintiff would have had no case, and this
seems to me to make manifest what I am unable to deem even
debatable, that, as I have said, the cause of action arises wholly under
Missouri law. If the Missouri law authorizes or forbids the investment according to the determination of this Court upon a point under
the Constitution or acts of Congress, still that point is material only
because the Missouri law saw fit to make it so." 255 U. S. at 214.
In the Standard Oil case, a ruling by a state court that United
States Army Post Exchanges were not federal agencies in deciding
the applicability of a state sales tax which did not apply to sales to
Government agencies, was held to be a decision of a federal question
reviewable here. "For post exchanges operate under regulations of
the Secretary of War pursuant to federal authority. These regulations and the practices under them establish the relationship between
the post exchange and the United States Government, and together
with the relevant statutory and constitutional provisions from which
they derive, afford the data upon which the legal status of the post
exchange may be determined. It was upon a determination of a
federal question, therefore, that the Supreme Court of California
rested its conclusion that, by § 10, sales to post exchanges were not
exempted from the tax." 316 U. S. at 483.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

the Kansas City Title case that where a decision under
state law necessarily involves the construction or validity
of federal law the determination of such federal law in
the application of state law gives rise to a federal question
for review here.
10. In any event the decision below did not go off on a
non-federal ground. It cannot be said of this case as was
true of a case like Fox Film Corp. v. Muller, 296 U. S.
207, 211, that the case "in effect, was disposed of before
the federal question said to be involved was reached.
Chouteauv. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; Chapmanv. Goodnow,
123 U. S. 540, 548. A decision of that question then
became unnecessary; and whether it was decided or not,
our want of jurisdiction is clear." We have seen that the
issue that was framed after the tax collector's return to
the rule was exclusively a question of constitutionality
under the United States Constitution, and the judgment
of the two State Courts was a determination of that issue.
There never was any suggestion that the controversy involved merely a construction of the state law except a construction that necessarily raised a federal constitutional
question. It was deemed to be a question under the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution until the Attorney General of the United States suggested that the Fourteenth
Amendment was at stake. But even on that assumption,
the case was decided on a federal and not on a non-federal
ground, namely the invalidity of the State's claim because
of want of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Since, however, the claim of invalidity was sustained we
can take the case only on certiorari. § 277 (b) of the
Judicial Code.
11. The question then is whether the federal ground was
adequately assigned to satisfy our Rules 9 and 13 (9).1
8Rule 9: "Where an appeal is taken to this court from any court,
the appellant shall fle with the clerk of the court below, with his petition for appeal, an assignment of errors, which shall set out separately

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
253

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

This brings us again to the rationale of these rules. "The
purpose is to enable the Court as well as opposing counsel,
readily to perceive what points are relied on." Seaboard
Air Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 91. Is there
any doubt that everybody knew what was the issue on
which the Supreme Court of Louisiana passed and what
was the issue on which the State of Louisiana and the
Government desire us to reverse that decision? Seaboard
Air Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, &upra,illustrates the true
functions of assignment of errors and affords an example of the kind of situations in which the rule comes into
operation. It is not fair to the administration of justiceto the work of this Court and counsel taking part in its
business--that appeal papers here should not enable us
to know clearly and quickly what it is that is complained
of and that we are asked to undo:
"The substitution of vague and general statement for
the prescribed particularity sets the rule at naught ...
And as the rule makes for convenience and certainty in
the consideration of cases the court may, and generally it
will, disregard a specification that is so uncertain or otherwise deficient as not substantially to comply with the rule,
even if the opposing party raises no question and treats
it as adequate. The quoted assignment amounts merely
to a complaint that the supreme court erred in not reand particularly each error asserted. No appeal shall be allowed unless such an assignment of errors shall accompany the petition."
Rule 13 (9): "When the record is filed, or within fifteen days thereafter, the appellant shall file with the clerk a definite statement of the

points on which he intends to rely and a designation of the parts of
the record which he thinks necessary for the consideration thereof
or a designation of those parts considered unnecessary, whichever is
more convenient, with proof of service of the same on the adverse
party ....

The statement of points intended to be relied upon and

the designations of the parts of the record to be printed shall be printed
by the clerk with the record.... The court will consider nothing

but the points of law so stated. .. "

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxFURTER, J., dksenting.

321 U. S.

versing the judgment of the trial court because 'in the
trial of this case' the 'scope and effect' of the section deprived appellant of its property in violation of both the
due process and equal protection clauses. An allegation
of error could scarcely be more indefinite. It does not
identify any ruling at the trial or specify any basis for the
assertion of deprivation of constitutional right. It presents no question for our consideration." Seaboard Air
Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, supraat 91.
In this case, unlike the Watson case, there was not a "vague
and general statement," an "indefinite" allegation of error. From beginning to end all concerned knew the precise issue that this litigation raises--whether § 402 (b)
(2) meets the guaranty of due process, in view of the dependence of the state act upon that federal provision.
Surely we would have to take this case if Louisiana had
specifically assigned as error the view that the Supreme
Court of Louisiana took of the Fourteenth Amendment
in relation to taxing community property. But since, as
the Louisiana Supreme Court said, the issue under the
Fourteenth Amendment is precisely the same in this situation as that under the Fifth Amendment, to throw out
the case because "Fourteenth Amendment" was not written is to make our jurisdiction the slave of words.
12. If the decision below can really be said to rest on a
non-federal ground, no assignment of errors could cure
the defect. But it does not rest on a non-federal ground.
It rests on a federal ground-the federal ground that is
written on almost every page of the record.
13. Nor should we avoid jurisdiction by creating an
issue which "the parties have not presented, briefed or
argued" for the very good reason that it is not in the case.
In brief, it is suggested that even assuming the tax on the
whole community is valid, the question remains whether
the appellees as legatees of half the community can be
made to bear the whole tax. That issue is excluded from

GOODYEAR CO. v. RAY-O-VAC CO.
Counsel for Parties.

253

the case. The amended plea of unconstitutionality did
not raise a new issue but merely gave a new label-the
Fourteenth Amendment-to the issue they tendered under the Fifth Amendment, dependence on which they reaffirmed. For the appellees, in the petition to prove the
will, have assumed the full liability for whatever taxes
are constitutionally due from the estate. We ought not
to create a constitutional grievance which the parties
themselves have never entertained in order to avoid adjudication of the only question which has been in the case
from the beginning.

GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO., INC. ET AL.

V.

RAY-O-VAC COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 262.

Argued February 2, 3, 1944.-Decided February 28, 1944.

1. Concurrent findings of the District Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals in a patent infringement suit will not be set aside unless
clearly erroneous. P. 278.
2. Anthony Patent No. 2,198,423, Claims 1, 2 and 3, for a leakproof
dry cell for a flashlight battery, held valid and infringed. P. 278.
3. Defenses based on insufficiency of description of the invention and
on flle-wrapper estoppel are not supported by the evidence. P. 279.
136 F. 2d 159, affirmed.

CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 727, to review the affirmance of

a decree for the plaintiff (45 F. Supp. 927) in a suit for
infringement of a patent.
Messrs. William E. Chilton and Albert R. Golrick for
petitioners.
Messrs. Bernard A. Schroeder and Gerhard A. Gesell,
with whom Messrs. Russell Wiles and CharlesJ. Merriam
were on the brief, for respondent.

