590

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

purchaser or purchasers . . ." It is clear, however, from
§ 3 of the National Banking Act that the state bank's
realty was not conveyed to or vested in respondent by
means of any deed, instrument or writing. There was
a complete absence of any of the formal instruments or
writings upon which the stamp tax is laid. Nor can the
realty be said to have been "sold" or vested in a "purchaser or purchasers" within the ordinary meanings of
those terms. Only by straining the realities of the statutory consolidation process can respondent be said to have
"bought" or "purchased" the real property. That we are
unable to do.
The judgment of the court below is therefore
Affirmed.

TENNESSEE COAL, IRON & RAILROAD CO.
v. MUSCODA LOCAL No. 123 .TAL.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 409. Argued January 13, 14, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. The Fair Labor Standards Act is remedial and humanitarian in
nature and must not be interpreted or applied in a narrow, grudging
manner. P. 597.
2. Sections 7 (a), 3 (g) and 3 (j)of the Fair Labor Standards Act
are necessarily indicative of a Congressional intention to guarantee
either regular or overtime compensation for all actual work or
employment. P. 597.
3. In the absence of a contrary legislative expression, it must be
assumed that Congress in the Fair Labor Standards Act was
referring to work or employment as those words are commonly
used-as meaning physical or mental exertion (whether burdensome or not) controlled or required by the employer and pursued
necessarily and primarily for the benefit of the employer and his
business. P. 598.
4. Underground travel by iron ore miners to and from the "working
face" of the mines, held, upon the facts of this case as found by

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

591

Opinion of the Court.

both courts below, to constitute work. Such underground travel
time is includible in the workweek within the meaning of the Fair
Labor Standards Act and must be compensated accordingly.

P. 598.
5. Although such underground travel of the iron ore miners is in
a strict sense non-productive, they are nevertheless engaged during
such travel time in a "process or occupation necessary to
production," within the meaning of § 3 (j) of the Act. P. 599.
6. The facts relating to underground travel by miners in iron ore
mines in this case leave no doubt as to its character as work within
the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, and the requirement
of the Act that it be compensated accordingly can not be rendered
inapplicable by any contrary custom or contract. P. 602.
137 F. 2d 176, affirmed.
CERTioRARI, 320 U. S. 731, to review a judgment which
modified and affirmed a judgment, 40 F. Supp. 4, in actions
for declaratory judgments construing the Fair Labor
Standards Act.

Messrs. NathanL. Miller and Borden Burrfor the Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad Co., petitioner. Messrs.
E. L. All, S. M. Bronaugh, and William B. White submitted for the Sloss-Sheffield Steel & Iron Co., and Messrs.
T. F. Patton, R. T. Rivers, and Borden Burr for the
Republic Steel Corp., petitioners.
Mr. Crampton Harris,with whom Messrs. J. Q. Smith
and Lee Pressmanwere on the brief (Mr. James A. Lipscomb entered an appearance), for respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. Robert L.
Stern, Douglas B. Maggs, Irving J. Levy, and Miss Bessie
Margolin were on the brief, for the Administrator of the
Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor,
intervener.
MR. JusTicE MUmpHY delivered the opinion of the Court.
We are confronted here with the problem of determining
in part what constitutes work or employment in under-

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

ground iron ore mines within the meaning of the Fair
Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201.
This question, which is one of first impression, arises out of
conflicting claims based upon the actual activities pursued
and upon prior custom and contract in the iron ore mines.
Such an issue can be resolved only by discarding formalities and adopting a realistic attitude, recognizing that we
are dealing with human beings and with a statute that
is intended to secure to them the fruits of their toil and
exertion.
Three iron ore mining companies, petitioners herein,
filed declaratory judgment actions I to determine whether
time spent by iron ore miners in traveling underground in
mines to and from the "working face" 2 constitutes work or
employment for which compensation must be paid under
the Act. The respondent labor unions and their officials,
representing petitioners' employees, were named as defendants and the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor was allowed to intervene.
The actual controversy relates only to the hours of employment during the period intervening between the effective date of the Act, October 24, 1938, and the dates when
the respective actions were initiated in April, 1941V It is
1 These actions were instituted under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act, 48 Stat. 955, § 274D, 28 U. S. C. § 400. They were
consolidated for trial purposes and the District Court entered a single
judgment.
2The "working face" is the place in the mine where the miners
actually drill and load ore. The "face to face" basis of compensation, advocated by petitioners, includes only the time spent at the
working face. The "portal to portal" basis, proposed by respondents,
includes time spent in traveling between the portal or entrance to the
mine and the working face and back again, as well as the time spent
at
the working face.
3 Since May 5, 1941, petitioners have paid their miners for travel
time pursuant to contract in compliance with the opinion of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division that underground travel
in
iron ore mines is work within the meaning of the Act.

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

593

Opinion of the Court.

conceded that if underground travel constitutes employment, the miners worked more than the statutory maximum workweek and are entitled to be paid one and onehalf times the regular rate for the excess hours. But if the
travel time is excluded from the workweek, thus limiting it
to the time spent at the working face, no overtime payments are due.
After extended hearings, the District Court found that
the travel time "bears in a substantial degree every indicia
of worktime: supervision by the employer, physical and
mental exertion, activity necessary to be performed for
the employers' benefit, and conditions peculiar to the occupation of mining." The court accordingly ruled that the
travel time, as well as the time spent at the surface obtaining and returning tools, lamps and carbide and checking
in and out, was included within the workweek. 40 F.
Supp. 4. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed as to the
travel time, holding that the District Court's findings on
that matter were supported by substantial evidence. The
judgment was modified by the Circuit Court, however, by
excluding from the workweek the time spent in the activities at the surface. 135 F. 2d 320; rehearing denied, 137 F.
2d 176. The importance of the problem as to the travel
time led us to grant certiorari.'
Specifically we are called upon to decide whether the
District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals properly
found that iron ore miners were at work within the meaning of the Act while engaged in underground travel which
they were obliged to perform on the property of and
under the direction of petitioners as a necessary concomitant of their employment. The record shows that petitioners own and operate twelve underground iron ore
4No review has been sought of the exclusion from the workweek of
the activities at the surface. We therefore do not discuss that issue in
this case. Alexander v. Cosden Pipe Line Co., 290 U. S. 484, 487, and

cases cited.

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

mines in Jefferson County, Alabama,5 and that the general
pattern of facts underlying the findings of the courts below
is essentially the same in each of these mines.0
The miners begin their day by arriving on the company
property at a scheduled hour 7 and going to the bath house,
where they change into working clothes.8 They then
walk to the tally house near the mine entrance or portal;
there they check in and hang up individual brass checks,
furnished by petitioners, on a tally or check-in board.
This enables the foreman and other officials to tell at a
glance those individuals who have reported for work and
those production and service crews that are incomplete
and in need of substitutes. Vacancies are filled and the
head miners and crews receive any necessary instructions.
In addition, each miner either rents a battery lamp for the
day or buys a can of carbide each day or two for underground illumination purposes. And at some of the mines,
5 The Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad Company has eight mines;
Sloss-Sheffield Steel & Iron Company, two mines; and Republic Steel
Corporation, two mines.
6 As the District Court pointed out, the conditions set forth by the
record are not intended to be used to censure petitioners' manner of
maintenance of their mines, "for these conditions may well be normal
conditions in iron ore mines and practically inevitable." Moreover,
the record indicates that the Spaulding mine of the Republic Company
has been operated only intermittently and experimentally during the last
20 years and many of the conditions in the other mines are not present.
The ore is close to the surface and miners can walk all the way to the
working faces.
7 One of the Tennessee Company's superintendents stated that
'Whenever a man comes to the mine late, dragging along and encourages others to be late, he is setting a bad example. I want this
understood thoroughly-men must be on time; we don't care whether
they work here or not, but if they want to work here they will have
to be on time or else they will be disciplined, even to discharge."
8 The use of the bath house, or change house, is optional. Some
miners change their clothes at home and make no use of the bath
houses furnished by petitioners.

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

595

Opinion of the Court.

many miners stop at a tool box or tool house on the surface
to pick up other small supplies and tools necessary for their
work. These activities consume but a few minutes.
The miners thereupon are required to report at the loading platform at the mine portal and await their turn to
ride down the inclined shafts of the mines. Originally
the miners could reach the working faces entirely by foot,
but as the shafts increased in length petitioners provided
transportation down the main shafts. The miners accordingly ride part of the way to the working faces in ore
skips I or regular man trips," which operate on narrow
gauge tracks by means of cables or hoisting ropes. The
operation of the skips and man trips is under the strict control and supervision of the petitioners at all times and
they refuse to permit the miners to walk rather than ride.
Regular schedules are fixed; loading and unloading are
supervised; the speed of the trips is regulated; and the
conduct of the miners during the rides is prescribed.
About three to six trips are made, depending on the
size of the mine and the number of miners. Ten men sit
on each man trip car, while from 30 to 40 are crowded into
an ore skip. They are forced to jump several feet into
the skip from the loading platform, which not infrequently
causes injuries to ankles, feet and hands. The skips are
usually overcrowded and the men stand tightly pressed
together. The heads of most of them are a foot or more
9

An ore skip is an ordinary four-wheeled ore box car made of steel.
It is normally used for transporting ore and its floor is often covered
with muck from such haulings. When men are riding in the car it
is known as a "man skip trip." It is used for such purposes in the
mines of the Tennessee Company and the Republic Company.
10 A regular man trip is a specially constructed series of cars. Each
car is about eight feet long and resembles a stairway. Five men sit
on either side of the car facing outwards, back to back with five men
on the other side. The man trip used in the Sloss Company mines

consists of six such cars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

above the top of the skips. But since the skips usually
clear the low mine ceilings by only a few inches, the miners
are compelled to bend over. They thus ride in a close
"spoon-fashion," with bodies contorted and heads drawn
below the level of the skip top. Broken ribs, injured arms
and legs, and bloody heads often result; even fatalities are
not unknown.
The length of the rides in the dark, moist, malodorous
shafts varies in the different mines from 3,000 feet to
12,000 feet. The miners then climb out of the skips and
man trips at the underground man-loading platforms or
"hoodlums" and continue their journeys on foot for distances up to two miles. These subterranean walks are
filled with discomforts and hidden perils. The surroundings are dark and dank. The air is increasingly warm and
humid, the ventilation poor. Odors of human sewage,
resulting from a complete absence of sanitary facilities,
permeate the atmosphere. Rotting mine timbers add to
the befouling of the air. Many of the passages are level,
but others take the form of tunnels and steep grades.
Water, muck and stray pieces of ore often make the footing uncertain. Low ceilings must be ducked and moving
ore skips must be avoided. Overhead, a maze of water
and air pipe lines, telephone wires, and exposed high voltage electric cables and wires present ever-dangerous obstacles, especially to those transporting tools. At all times
the miners are subject to the hazards of falling rocks.
Moreover, most of the working equipment, except drills
and heavy supplies, is kept near the "hoodlums." This
equipment is carried each day by foot by the crews through
these perilous paths from the "hoodlums" to the working
faces. Included are such items as fifty-pound sacks of
dynamite, dynamite caps, fuses, gallon cans of oil and
servicemen's supplies. Actual drilling and loading of the
ore begin on arrival at the working faces, interrupted only
by a thirty minute lunch period spent at or near the faces.

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

597

Opinion of the Court.

The service and maintenance men, of course, work whereever they are needed.
At the end of the day's duties at the working faces, the
miners lay down their drills, pick up their other equipment
and retrace their steps back to the "hoodlums." They
wait there until an ore skip or man trip is available to
transport them back to the portal. After arriving on the
surface, they return their small tools and lamps, pick up
their brass checks at the tally house, and proceed to bathe
and change their clothes at the bath house. Finally they
leave petitioners' property and return to their homes.
In determining whether this underground travel constitutes compensable work or employment within the
meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, we are not
guided by any precise statutory definition of work or employment. Section 7 (a) merely provides that no one,
who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods
for commerce, shall be employed for a workweek longer
than the prescribed hours unless compensation is paid for
the excess hours at a rate not less than one and one-half
times the regular rate. Section 3 (g) defines the word
"employ" to include "to suffer or permit to work," while
§ 3 (j) states that "production" includes "any process or
occupation necessary to . . . production."
But these provisions, like the other portions of the Fair
Labor Standards Act, are remedial and humanitarian in
purpose. We are not here dealing with mere chattels or
articles of trade but with the rights of those who toil, of
those who sacrifice a full measure of their freedom and
talents to the use and profit of others. Those are the
rights that Congress has specially legislated to protect.
Such a statute must not be interpreted or applied in a
narrow, grudging manner. Accordingly we view §§ 7 (a),
3 (g) and 3 (j) of the Act as necessarily indicative of
a Congressional intention to guarantee either regular or
overtime compensation for all actual work or employ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

ment. To hold that an employer may validly compensate
his employees for only a fraction of the time consumed in
actual labor would be inconsistent with the very purpose
and structure of those sections of the Act. It is vital, of
course, to determine first the extent of the actual workweek. Only after this is done can the minimum wage
and maximum hour requirements of the Act be effectively
applied. And, in the absence of a contrary legislative
expression, we cannot assume that Congress here was
referring to work or employment other than as those
words are commonly used-as meaning physical or mental exertion (whether burdensome or not) controlled or
required by the employer and pursued necessarily and primarily for the benefit of the employer and his business."1
Viewing the facts of this case as found by both courts
below in the light of the foregoing considerations, we are
unwilling to conclude that the underground travel in petitioners' iron ore mines cannot be construed as work or employment within the meaning of the Act. The exacting
and dangerous conditions in the mine shafts stand as
mute, unanswerable proof that the journey from and to
the portal involves continuous physical and mental exertion as well as hazards to life and limb. And this compulsory travel occurs entirely on petitioners' property and is at all times under their strict control and
supervision.
" Webster's New International Dictionary (2d ed., unabridged)
defines work as follows: "1. To exert oneself physically or mentally
for a purpose, esp., in common speech, to exert oneself thus in doing
something undertaken chiefly for gain, for improvement in one's
material, intellectual, or physical condition, or under compulsion of
any kind, as distinguished from something undertaken primarily for
pleasure, sport, or immediate gratification, or as merely incidental
to other activities (as a disagreeable walk involved in going to see
a friend, or the packing of a trunk for a pleasure trip) . .

."

The

word "employ" is defined as follows: "2. To make use of the services of; to give employment to; to entrust with some duty or behest."

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.

599

Opinion of the Court.

590

Such travel, furthermore, is not primarily undertaken
for the convenience of the miners and bears no relation
whatever to their needs or to the distance between their
homes and the mines' 2 Rather the travel time is spent
for the benefit of petitioners and their iron ore mining
operations. The extraction of ore from these mines by its
very nature necessitates dangerous travel in petitioners'
underground shafts in order to reach the working faces,
where production actually occurs. Such hazardous
travel is thus essential to petitioners' production. It
matters not that such travel is, in a strict sense, a nonproductive benefit. Nothing in the statute or in reason
demands that every moment of an employee's time devoted to the service of his employer shall be directly
productive. Section 3 (j) of the Act expressly provides
that it is sufficient if an employee is engaged in a process
or occupation necessary to production. Hence employees
engaged in such necessary but not directly productive
activities as watching and guarding a building, 3 waiting
for work,' and standing by on call 11 have been held to
be engaged in work necessary to production and entitled
to the benefits of the Act. Iron ore miners traveling
underground are no less engaged in a "process or occupation" necessary to actual production. They do more than
"stand and wait," Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 231 U. S. 112, 119. Cf. Bountiful Brick Co. v.
Giles, 276 U. S. 154, 158. Theirs is a fossorial activity
bearing all the indicia of hard labor.
22 Cf. Dollar v. Caddo River Lumber Co., 43 F. Supp. 822; Sirmon. v. Cron & Gracey Drilling Corp., 44 F. Supp. 29; Bulot v. Freeport Sulphur Co., 45 F. Supp. 380; Walling v. Peavy-Wilson Lumber
Co., 49 F. Supp. 846.
'1 Walton v. Southern Package Corp., 320 U. S. 540; Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517.
2"Fleming v. North Georgia Mfg. Co., 33 F. Supp. 1005; Travis
v. Ray, 41 F. Supp. 6.
15 Walling v. Allied Messenger Servzce, 47 F. Supp. 773.

576281-44----42

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U.S.

The conclusion that underground travel in iron ore
mines is work has also been reached by the Administrator
of the Wage and Hour Division. On March 17, 1941,
he approved an informal report of his representative
based upon an investigation of the "hours worked" in
underground metal mines in the United States. The
report concluded, in part, that "The workday in underground metal mining starts when the miner reports for
duty as required at or near the collar [portal] of the mine
and ends when he reaches the collar at the end of the
shift." See also Sunshine Mining Co. v. Carver, 41 F.
Supp. 60. In addition, statutes of several important
metal mining states provide that the eight-hour per day
limitation upon work includes travel underground."
Petitioners, however, rely mainly upon the alleged "immemorial custom and agreements arrived at by the practice of collective bargaining" which are said to establish
"the 'face to face' method as the standard and measure

"6
Arizona and Utah statutes specifically include all the travel time
within the eight-hour limitation. Ariz. Code Ann. (1939), vol. 4, § 56115; Utah Code Ann. (1943), § 49-3-2. The Supreme Court of
'Montana has construed Mont. Const., art. 18, § 4, and Mont. Rev.
Code (1935), § 3071, which provide for eight hours of work per day
in underground mines, to include all travel time, Butte Miners' Union
No. 1 v. Anaconda Copper Mining Co., 112 Mont. 418, 118 P. 2d 148.
Nevada Comp. Laws (1929), § 10237, provides that the limitation
shall apply to travel one way. But Wyoming Rev. Stat. (1931),
§ 63-107, specifically excludes underground travel from the limitation; a like result has been reached by interpretation of California
Stats. 1909, ch. 181, p. 279, in Mitatter of Application of Martin,
157 Cal. 59, 106 P. 238. Alabama and Tennessee fix no limitation
on hours, while maximum hour statutes of other metal mining
states are inconclusive insofar as the inclusion of travel time is
concerned. See also § 5 (2) of the English Metalliferous Mines
Regulation Act (1872), 35 & 36 Vict., c. 77, which provides that
"The period of each employment shall be deemed to begin at the
time of leaving the surface, and to end at the time of returning to
the surface."

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

601

Opinion of the Court.

for computing working time in the iron ore industry."
They further claim that since the Fair Labor Standards
Act contains no specific provision regarding underground
travel in mines, Congress must be presumed to have intended to perpetuate existing customs or to leave the matter to be worked out through the process of collective
bargaining.
The short answer is that the District Court was unable to find from the evidence that any such "immemorial" custom or collective bargaining agreements existed.
That court, in making its findings, properly directed its
attention solely to the evidence concerning petitioners'
iron ore mines and disregarded the customs and contracts
in the coal mining industry. There was ample evidence
that prior to the crucial date of the enactment of the statute, the provisions in petitioners' contracts with their employees relating to a forty hour workweek "at the usual
working place" bore no relation to the amount of time
actually worked or the compensation received. Instead,
working time and payment appear to have been related to
the amount of iron ore mined each day. Hence such contract provisions defining the workweek are of little if any
value in determining the workweek and compensation
under a statute which requires that they be directly related to the actual work performed.
Likewise there was substantial, if not conclusive, evidence that prior to 1938 petitioners recognized no independent labor unions and engaged in no bona fide collective bargaining with an eye toward reaching agreements
on the workweek. Contracts with company-dominated
unions and discriminatory actions toward the independent unions are poor substitutes for "contracts fairly arrived at through the process of collective bargaining."
The wage payments and work on a tonnage basis, as well
as the contract provisions as to the workweek, were all
dictated by petitioners. The futile efforts by the miners

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

to secure at least partial compensation for their travel
time and their dissatisfaction with existing arrangements,
moreover, negative the conclusion that there was any
real custom as to the workweek and compensation therefor. A valid custom cannot be based on so turbulent and
discordant a history; it requires something more than unilateral and arbitrary imposition of working conditions.
We thus cannot say that the District Court's findings as
to custom and contract are so clearly erroneous as to compel us to disregard them.
But in any event it is immaterial that there may have
been a prior custom or contract not to consider certain
work within the compass of the workweek or not to compensate employees for certain portions of their work. The
Fair Labor Standards Act was not designed to codify or
perpetuate those customs and contracts which allow an
employer to claim all of an employee's time while compensating him for only a part of it. Congress intended, instead, to achieve a uniform national policy of guaranteeing compensation for all work or employment engaged in
by employees covered by the Act."3 Any custom or contract falling short of that basic policy, like an agreement
to pay less than the minimum wage requirements, cannot be utilized to deprive employees of their statutory
7

Blackstone has said that one of the requisites of a valid custom
is that "it must have been peaceable, and acquiesced in; not subject
to contention and dispute. For as customs owe their original to
common consent, their being immemorially disputed, either at law
or otherwise, is a proof that such consent was wanting." 1 Commentaries 77. See also Pollock, First Book of Jurisprudence, 283 (6th

ed.).
18 Congress was not unaware of the effect that collective bargaining contracts might have on overtime pay. It expressly decided to
give effect to two kinds of collective agreements, as specified in § 7
(b) (1) and (2) of the Act. Cf. § 8 (c). It thus did not intend that
other collective agreements should relieve employers from paying
for overtime in excess of an actual workweek of 40 hours, regardless of the provisions of such contracts.

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

Fs'uxrxau

603

, J., concurring.

rights. Cf. OvernightMotor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366. See also Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467; J. I. Case Co. v.
Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332; Order of Railroad Telegraphers v. Railway Express Agency, 321 U. S. 342.
This does not foreclose, of course, reasonable provisions of contract or custom governing the computation of
work hours where precisely accurate computation is difficult or impossible. Nor are we concerned here with the
effect that custom and contract may have in borderline
cases where the other facts give rise to serious doubts as
to whether certain activity or non-activity constitutes
work or employment. It is sufficient in this case that
the facts relating to underground travel in iron ore mines
leave no uncertainty as to its character as work. The
Act thus requires that appropriate compensation be paid
for such work. Any other conclusion would deprive the
iron ore miners of the just remuneration guaranteed them
by the Act for contributing their time, liberty and strength
primarily for the benefit of others.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Affirmed.

Mu. JUSTICE FRMKFmT__,

concurring:

The legal question on the record before us lies within
a narrow compass. Section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act commands the payment of compensation at a
rate of not less than one and one-half times the regular
rate for every employee under the statute who is engaged
"for a workweek" longer than forty-four or forty-two
hours during the first or the second year, respectively,
after the effective date of the section and forty hours
thereafter. 52 Stat. 1060, 1063, 29 U. S. C. § 207. Congress did not explicitly define "workweek" and there is
nothing in the available materials pertinent to construction that warrants a finding that "workweek," as applied
to the workers in the iron ore industry, had so settled a

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JAcKsoN, J., concurring.

321 U. S.

meaning at the time of the enactment of the Fair Labor
Standards Act as to be deemed incorporated by reference.
As a result, "workweek" in this statute, as applied to
workers in this industry and on this record, has no technical meaning, that is, a meaning so well known to those
in this particular industry as to be applied by courts in
enforcing the statute when invoked by men in the industry. For purposes of this case, in any event, when Congress used the word "workweek," it used it colloquiallythe term carries merely the meaning of common
understanding.
An administrative agency for preliminary adjudication
of issues arising under the Wages and Hours Law, like
that established by the National Labor Relations Act,
was not provided by Congress. And so, the application
of this colloquial concept "workweek" to the multifarious
situations in American industry was left by Congress for
ascertainment by judicial proceedings. These facts are
to be found either by a jury or, as in this case, by a judge
sitting without a jury. And so here it was the judge's
duty to determine what time and energy on the part of
the employees involved in this suit constituted a "workweek" of these employees of the petitioners. After a trial
which lasted for about three weeks, during which testimony covering 2,643 pages was heard and voluminous exhibits were introduced, the District Court made its findings of fact. A judgment for the employees based on these
findings was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
40 F. Supp. 4; 135 F. 2d 320.
We have then a judgment of two courts based on findings with ample evidence to warrant such findings. Affirmance by this Court is therefore demanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring:

This case in my view probably does not present any
question of law or, if so, it is one with a very obvious

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

605

JACKSON, J., concurring.

answer. When Congress in the Fair Labor Standards
Act referred to "a workweek longer than forty hours,"
it considered, I assume, that what was a workweek in fact
should be a workweek in law. Therefore, the determination of any particular case does not govern any other, for
each establishment and industry stands on its own
conditions.
A seasoned and wise rule of this Court makes concurrent findings of two courts below final here in the absence
of very exceptional showing of error. Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. v. Ray-O-4ac Co., 321 U. S. 275; District of
Columbia v. Pace, 320 U. S. 698; Baker v. Schofield, 243
U. S. 114, 118; Williams Manufacturing Co. v. United
Shoe Machinery Corp., 316 U. S. 364, 367.
In these cases ore mining companies sought declaratory
judgments that miners' travel time in the shafts getting
to and from actual mining operations, and some other time,
is not to be counted in the workweek as defined for overtime purposes in the Fair Labor Standards Act. They
alleged that the custom of their mines excluded it, but the
trial court considered all the evidence and said, "The evidence has disclosed no such custom." The companies also
contended that the activity during travel is not in the nature of work. After hearing a mass of conflicting testimony the trial court said of these activities, "They axe performed on the premises of the employer, in the furtherance
of the employer's business, with no benefit to the employee
(except to aid him in the performance of work for the
employer), under conditions created and controlled by the
employer, and they involve responsibility to the employer
and physical exertion, even though not burdensome, on the
part of the employee. No characteristic of work is lacking." These were found to be the facts by the two courts
below and, whatever we might decide if we were a trial court
hearing the evidence in the first instance, we cannot with
our limited review hold them wrong on this record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

If these facts are accepted, the ruling that such travel
time is part of the workweek seems manifest. I would
affirm on these controlling facts.
Mit. JusTICE ROBERTS:
The question for decision in this case should be approached not on the basis of any broad humanitarian prepossessions we may all entertain, not with a desire to construe legislation so as to accomplish what we deem worthy
objects, but in the traditional and, if we are to have a government of laws, the essential attitude of ascertaining what
Congress has enacted rather than what we wish it had
enacted.
Much of what is said in the opinion, in my view, disregards this fundamental function of the judicial process and
relies on considerations which have no place in the solution
of the issue presented.
What did Congress mean when it said, in § 7 (a) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act, that "No employer shall . . .
employ any of his employees . . . for a workweek longer
than forty hours . . . unless such employee receives
compensation" for overtime at a specified rate? No other
issue is presented.
The materials for decision are those to which resort always has been had in ascertaining the meaning of a statute.
They are the mischief to be remedied, the purpose of
Congress in the light of the mischief, and the means adopted
to promote that purpose. These are not obscure in this
instance.
The committe reports upon the bill which became the
Fair Labor Standards Act I make it clear that the sole
purpose was to increase employment, to require a fair
day's pay for a fair day's work by raising the wages of the
I1H. R. 1452, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., H. R. 2182, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.,
S. R. 884, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

ROBERTS,

607

J., dissenting.

most poorly paid workers and reducing the hours of those
most overworked, and thus correct inequalities in the cost
of producing goods and prevent unfair competition in commerce. The reports disclose no other purpose. The Congressional findings and declaration of policy embodied in
§ 2 (a) 2 exhibit no intent to deal with any matter other
than substandard conditions in industry stemming from
wage and hour practices. The Act will be searched in vain
for a mandate respecting any subject other than minimum
wages and maximum hours of work. This court has construed it as dealing only with these subjects.'
In this setting, therefore, we are to determine what
Congress meant by the term "workweek" when it prescribed the maximum number of hours of labor an employer might require to be rendered within any week at
the standard wage. The Act does not define "workweek,"
for the evident reason that Congress believed it had a conventional meaning which all would understand and to
which all could conform their practices. The term combines two words in common use. A week is any period
of seven days. In accepted usage a man's work means
that which he does for his employer as the consideration of
the wage he receives. The term is often used in a more
general sense as when one is asked what he is doing and
replies "I am working for Jones." Of course he does not
mean that Jones is paying him for each hour of every
week of his life. Men are not commonly paid for the time
they sleep, the time they eat, or the time they take to go
to, and return from, their employer's premises. Thus,
although the phrase "work" may refer to the calling pursued, or the identity of the employer, it is plainly not so
used in this statute. Its collocation with the word "week"
and with the injunction as to minimum pay, maximum
2 52 Stat.

1060.
3 United States v. Darby,312 U. S. 100, 115,117,122,125.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

hours, and overtime for extra work, in any week, shows
that what Congress meant by work was what I have above
described,-the actual service rendered to the employer
for which he pays wages in conformity to custom or
agreement.
It is common knowledge that what constitutes work for
which payment is to be made varies with customs and
practices in different industries or businesses. Where the
employe is required to report at his employer's place of
business and go thence to the place where his employer's
activities are pursued, it has been the custom in some cases
to pay for the time spent in going from the employer's
place of business to the place of work. In many industries some or all of the employes are required to report
and to remain at a given place awaiting a call for emergency or other casual service and, according to understanding, they are paid for the hours during which they
wait as well as those in which they actually put forth
physical or mental effort. There can be little doubt that
Congress expected the provisions of the Act to be fitted
into the prevailing practices and understandings as to
what constituted work in various industries.
The Act does not provide that the Administrator or the
courts are to define a workweek in the case of each employer on such basis as they deem right, regardless of the
custom of the industry or of existing agreements between
employers and employes. Nor does the Act vest authority in Administrator or court to disregard and supersede
existing understandings and practices as to what constitutes work or the workweek. There is nothing in the
words of the statute or its history to suggest that Congress
intended, without mentioning it, to confer on the Administrator or the courts so vast a power over the industry of
the nation.
The question in this case then is: What was the workweek of iron miners when the Act was adopted? If the

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL. 609
590

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

answer is plain, then, I submit, that existing workweek
must control in the administration of the statute unless
and until employer and employes, by consensual arrangement, alter the current practice.
The record presents no dispute as to the facts. Some
are matters of public notoriety susceptible of judicial
notice; others are contained in offers of evidence which
the District Court excluded as irrelevant; others are exposed in the proofs.
Conditions of labor in iron mines and in coal mines are
similar. In both, as the workings become deeper, the men
have farther to go to reach the places at which they labor.
The time thus consumed by individual workmen varies in
the same mine, and in different mines. The conditions in
the channels of approach to the places of work are somewhat better in iron mines than in coal mines. The custom in coal mines is, therefore, persuasive, since some of
the petitioners maintain coal and iron mines in close proximity, and since the practice in the two has been the same
for many years.
In the public arbitration proceedings at Birmingham,
Alabama, in 1903, the testimony showed that a miner's
day was reckoned "from the time [he] gets to the face of
the coal until he leaves the face of the coal," and that the
eight hour day was so measured. That arbitration resulted in a wage agreement on the "face to face" basis;
that is, on a wage fixed according to the time the miners
worked at the face of the coal.
In 1917 a public board of arbitration, whose award was
approved by the United States Fuel Administrator,
found:
"An eight hour day means eight hours work at the
usual working places of all classes of employees. This
shall be exclusive of the time required in reaching such
working places in the morning and departing from the
same at night."

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

321

U.S.

In 1920 the report and award of the Bituminous Coal
Commission, which was made the basis of agreement between operators and union miners, employed the language
just quoted.
In 1933 the Code of Fair Competition for the Bituminous Coal Industry, promulgated by the President under
the National Industrial Recovery Act, provided:
"Seven hours of labor shall constitute a day's work and
this means seven hours work at the usual working places
for all classes of labor, exclusive of the lunch period,
whether they be paid on the day or the tonnage or other
piecework basis."
In 1933 the Appalachian Agreement, approved by the
President, provided:
"Eight hours of labor shall constitute a day's work.
The eight-hour day means eight hours' work in the mines
at the usual working places for all classes of labor, exclusive of the lunch period."
Prior to 1938, the petitioner Tennessee Coal, Iron &
Railroad Company paid its miners either on a piecework
basis or upon a shift basis, as did the petitioners SlossSheffield and Republic Steel. But the common understanding of men and management was that, at first, ten
hours and, later, eight hours constituted a working day.
This is shown by the proofs and there is no evidence to
the contrary.
On numerous occasions the men working in these mines
claimed, through their unions, that they ought to be paid
for travel time consumed in the mines in going to or from
the face where they worked. Their demands for pay for
travel time are eloquent proof that they understood the
basis on which their pay was reckoned and that it did not
include travel time as working time. No agreement to
pay for travel time was made and no practice to pay for
it was adopted.
In 1934 Tennessee made an agreement with the Union
representing its employees, which was renewed in 1935,

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

611

ROBERTs, J., dissenting.

and again in 1936. It is undisputed that all of these agreements excluded payment for travel time. On October 6,
1938, before the Fair Labor Standards Act was in effect,
a collective bargaining agreement was made between the
International Union, affiliated with the CIO, and the Tennessee Company. In this agreement it was provided:
"Section 4-Hours of Work. Eight (8) hours shall
constitute a day's work and forty (40) hours shall constitute a week's work. Time and one-half shall be paid for
all overtime in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day
or for all overtime in excess of forty (40) hours in any
one week.
"The eight (8) hour day means eight hours of work in
or about the mines at the usual working places for all
classes of labor, exclusive of the lunch period, whether they
be paid by the day or be paid on the tonnage basis."
This agreement remained in effect until May 5, 1941,
when the provisions in question were abrogated pursuant
to an opinion promulgated by the Wage and Hour Administrator as hereinafter described.
The circumstances are not materially different with
respect to Sloss-Sheffield. That company has bargained
with a union representing its miners since 1934. Several
times the union made a demand for payment of travel
time but this was not granted. A formal agreement containing the same definitions of workweek, and hours of
work, as in the case of Tennessee, was executed in 1939
and renewed in 1940. The company continued to pay on
the face to face basis until 1941.
Republic Steel has had no formal written agreement
with its employes, but it has bargained with their union.
As early as 1933 the union suggested that an arrangement be made whereby the men enter the mine on their
own time and come out on company time, but the matter was not pressed. It came up again in 1934. After
a strike, negotiations resulted in a return of the men to

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

work on the face to face plan of payment. In 1935 the
union proposed that the employes should enter on their
own time and come out on company time, but in negotiations the matter was dropped. In 1936 the union wrote
the company respecting an agreement and, in its proposal, said: "The eight hour day means eight hours in
or about the mines, at the usual working places for all
classes of work." In 1939 the union proposed an agreement containing a like provision. In that year the union
preferred charges before the National Labor Relations
Board but these did not involve the face to face basis
of wage computation. The complaint was settled by
stipulation. The company continued to pay for a day's
work on the face to face basis until May 1, 1941.
The Fair Labor Standards Act became effective October
24, 1938. At that time coal and iron miners were being
paid on the basis of their time spent at their working
places in the mine. The miners fully understood this
basis.
On July 9, 1940, the director of the legal department
of the United Mine Workers of America, in a letter to the
Administrator of the Act, requested that he accept the
definition of working time contained in the Appalachian
agreement, which the letter said embodied "the custom
and traditions of the bituminous mining industry." That
definition was the same as that quoted from the Tennessee
agreement, supra. The letter further said, respecting the
face to face method:
"This method of measuring the working time at the
places of work has been the standard provision in the basic
wage agreements for almost fifty years and is the result
of collective bargaining in its complete sense."
and further said:
"As mines grow older, the working places move farther
and farther away from the portal or opening of the mine,
and as such conditions develop, it becomes necessary for

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

ROBERTS,

613

J., dissenting.

provision to be made for transportation of the men over
long distances to their working places."
and added that adjustment of wage rates to any new
measurement
"would create so much confusion in the bituminous industry as to result in complete chaos, and would probably
result in a complete stoppage of work at practically all of
the coal mines in the United States."
On the footing of that letter the Administrator issued
a release stating that the face to face basis in the bituminous industry would not be unreasonable.
On March 23, 1941, the Administrator announced a
modified portal to portal wage hour opinion in which he
defined the workday in underground metal mining as
starting when the miner reports at the collar of the mine,
ends when he returns to the collar, and includes the time
spent on the surface in obtaining and returning lamps,
carbide, and tools and in checking in and out. Realizing
that this was a complete change of opinion, the Administrator announced that he would not seek to compel payment of restitution from mine owners operating on a face
to face basis but that he could not interfere with the right
of employes or their representatives to sue for past overtime and penalties under § 16 (b) of the Act. Thereupon
the unions representing miners demanded payment of
overtime for all travel time since the effective date of
the Act, and invoked the penalties specified therein.
In order to avoid possible penalties, the petitioners complied with the Administrator's ruling and brought the
present suit for a declaratory judgment to the effect that
working time of underground employes comprised the
hours of work in the usual working places in the mine and
did not include the time consumed in travel thereto and
therefrom.
At the trial much evidence was taken as to the practice existing in iron mines long prior to, and at the date

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

of the adoption of, the Fair Labor Standards Act. This
was given by miners, foremen, and employers, and represented not any single locality but the industry over the
country. In fact, some of the testimony consisted of depositions taken by the respondents, but offered by the
petitioners. It was all to the effect that the working time
of iron miners had always been calculated and paid for
according to the time worked in the mine at the place
assigned for the work and that travel time had never been
included in the time for which payment was made.
The district judge entered twenty-nine findings of fact.
The first four are formal. The fifth is to the effect that,
in the history of mining in the Birmingham District,
plaintiffs' employes have been paid without regard to the
number of hours spent at the face of the ore or at any specified place or station in the mines, and adds: "This compensation has never been based upon any precise number
of hours spent daily at the face of the seam or at any specified place or station in the mines." The finding would
seem difficult to explain in view of the history heretofore
outlined. The explanation is found in the fact that, although the men were paid for an eight hour day of work at
the face, if blasts were about to be set off at the close of
the day the men were sent away from the face some time
before the blasting but were, nevertheless, paid as if they
had remained at the face for the full eight hours. But
this can be no reason for disregarding the practices and
agreements of the parties.
Findings 6 to 12, inclusive, refer to various methods of
payment practiced in the past and to the character of the
work of miners and other underground workers. They
evidently are intended to show that, while an eight hour
day was in force, the wage was not calculated at an hourly
rate. Of course, they do not contradict the fact that forty
hours constituted the workweek nor the fact that it was

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

ROBERTS,

615

J., dissenting.

understood that no wages were paid for time spent in
travel in the mines.
Finding 13 is to the effect that the unions which made
agreements with various petitioners had never been certified by the National Labor Relations Board as appropriate units for collective bargaining. The bearing of
this finding is difficult to understand in view of the fact
that the employers dealt with the unions representing
their men and two operated under formal collective bargaining agreements with nationally affiliated unions.
Finding 14 briefly mentions that the men had several
times demanded pay for travel time.
Findings 15 to 27, inclusive, describe the conditions under which the men arrive at the mine, check in, obtain
their tools, and walk, or are carried, to their work underground and how they return. They recite that the men
have to obey company regulations while they are on the
company property and in going to and returning from
work. Many of these regulations are for the men's safety.
These findings also show that, after arriving on company
property, the men receive certain directions with respect
to the work they are to do. The obvious bearing of these
findings is that the court thought travel ought to be considered work, within the intendment of the Act, whatever
the custom, practice, or agreement of the parties. It
would be no less a judicial fiat, though somewhat more
extreme, to hold that as the men's living quarters are uncomfortable and unhealthy and they must live in the
neighborhood of the mines, the time spent in their homes
must be paid for as work.
The two concluding findings are of facts which add
nothing. They are to the effect that, if all the travel time
is counted in the workweek, the men have worked more
than forty hours per week and the petitioners have not
paid them for more than forty hours.
576281-44-----43

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

The opinion and concurring opinion in this court rely
heavily on these findings, especially as they were accepted
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. But it will be observed
that the findings are noteworthy for the feature that they
deal, except in the instance mentioned, which has already
been explained, with facts which are immaterial to the issues in the case. I do not see how aid to decision can be
derived by refusing to disturb findings which do not meet
the issue made by the pleadings. It is significant that the
District Court avoided any finding as to whether the employers had ever paid travel time or as to the understanding
of the parties that the employers were not paying for such
travel time. And it is even more significant that the court
made no finding whatever about the formal collective bargaining agreements entered into by the respondents with
the petitioners in which both parties clearly signified their
understanding of what was work in iron mines. And the
court could not, under the proofs in this case, have found
that these collective bargaining agreements were contrary
to the accepted practice in iron and coal mines throughout
the country prior to 1941. The petitioners objected that
the findings omitted any reference to the fact that the
companies had never paid for travel time, to the fact that
the day's work for which wages were paid did not include
travel time to or from the place where they mined the ore,
or to the negotiations and agreements as to working time,
and sought a new trial. The objections and motions were
overruled.
Reliance is placed on the trial court's finding that the
evidence discloses no custom to exclude travel time from
the workweek. But that very reliance exposes the fallacy
of the lower court's and this court's position. Unless the
statute gave the courts authority to make contracts for the
parties, which the statute did not make, a court could not
support such a contract by finding that there was no custom with respect to travel time. It would be necessary for

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. MUSCODA LOCAL.
590

617

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

it to find that there was a custom to pay for such time,
which the District Court failed to do, for the obvious reason that there was no evidence of such custom.
To say that we should pitch decision on acceptance of the
findings of the trial court, when that court neglected to
find facts which were highly relevant and material, is to
disregard the real and the only issue in the case.
As I have already pointed out, the Fair Labor Standards
Act was not intended by Congress to turn into work that
which was not work, or not so understood to be, at the time
of its passage. It was not intended to permit courts to designate as work some activity of an employe, which neither
employer nor employe had ever regarded as work, merely
because the court thought that such activity imposed such
hardship on him or involved conditions so deleterious to
his health or welfare that he ought to be compensated for
them.
It is common knowledge that the issue of portal to portal
pay was first nationally raised in connection with the mining industry after the nation was at war and in connection
with disastrous coal strikes. And, indeed, the inspiration
for the demand for portal to portal pay was furnished by
the decision of the court below in this case. That decision
was rendered on March 16, 1943. Three days later the
National Policy Committee of the United Mine Workers
changed its demanded definition of hours of labor so that
existing demands, which, until then, had been on the traditional face to face basis of payment, should "conform with
the basic legal requirements of the industry and the maximum hours of work time provisions be amended to establish 'portal to portal' for starting and quitting time for all
underground workers." In presenting this demand it
said: "The Mine Workers desire to take advantage of the
law which, under the Alabama decision, grants them the
right to be paid for the time they are in the mines." Thus
it is plain that the decision under review was understood,

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

as it must be, as a declaration of law by a court as to
what is a workweek under the Act and not a finding of fact
based on the custom of the industry and the agreement of
the parties. In August class actions were filed by the
United Mine Workers in various district courts to obtain
overtime compensation for portal to portal pay.
One further fact should be noted. The District Court
found that not only the travel time from and to the mouth
of the mine should be counted as working time, but that
the time men spent on the surface in collecting tools,
etc. should also be included. The Circuit Court of Appeals, although professing to accept the fact findings of
the District Court, reversed its judgment with respect to
time spent on the surface, saying no more than that the
District Court was wrong in including that time. This is
further proof that the decision of the case by both courts
below turns on the view of a court as to what ought to
be considered work and what not, irrespective of the
understanding of the parties. Suppose that the parties
had agreed that travel time was working time and to be
included and paid for in the workweek? Would the
courts be at liberty to find the contrary and deprive respondents of the benefit of the agreement? I think not.
I cannot better characterize the result in this case than
by quoting from what Judge Sibley said in his dissenting
opinion below: '
"If it would be better to include travel time in work time,
it ought to be done by a new bargain in which rates of pay
are also reviewed. If the change is to be by a special
statute (some western States have such statutes), it will
operate justly in futuro, and not by unexpected penalty,
as here.
"There is nothing in the Act to outlaw agreements that
travel time in getting to or from the agreed place of work
4 135 F. 2d 324, 325.

TENNESSEE COAL CO. v. IUSCODA LOCAL.
590

ROBERTS,

619

J., dissenting.

is not work time. This is true though the employer may
organize a means of transportation and make rules for its
use. The agreements here that work time includes only
time at the face of the ore bed are not illegal. Digging out
the ore is what the miners agree to do, and for that they
are paid. Getting their tools together and riding or walking to the agreed place of work is not, by force of any
law, work done for the mine owner. No one, I suppose,
would say that if a group of miners who had spent an hour
riding to work decided of their own will not to dig any ore
and spent another hour riding back, they had done any
work for which they should be paid by force of the Act.
"It is now proposed to assess against these appellants
as back pay for overtime an estimated quarter of a million dollars, to be doubled by way of penalty, to compensate the miners for their time in going to and from
their place of work, in the face of their agreements that
this time was not in their work time. They are to get
three times as much per hour for riding and walking to
and from the work they were hired to do, as they get for
doing the work itself. The injustice of it to me is
shocking."
I would reverse the judgment.

The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this opinion.

