OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

FRANKS BROS. CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 521. Argued March 2, 27, 1944.-Decided April 10, 1944.
1. The National Labor Relations Board acted within its statutory
authority in ordering petitioner to bargain collectively with a
union which had lost its majority after petitioner had wrongfully
refused to bargain with it. 29 U. S. C. § 160 (a), (c). P. 703.
2. It is for the Board, not the courts, to determine how the effect of
prior unfair labor practices may be expunged. P. 704.
137 F. 2d 989, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 734, to review a decree directing

compliance with an order of the National Labor Relations
Board, 44 N. L. R. B. 898, 917.
Mr. Benjamin E. Gordon, with whom Mr. Arthur V.
Getchell was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Mr. David Findling, and Miss Ruth Weyand were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The single question presented is whether the National
Labor Relations Board acted within its statutory authority in ordering petitioner to bargain collectively with a
union which had lost its majority after petitioner wrongfully had refused to bargain with it.
In June 1941 forty-five of the eighty production and
maintenance employees in petitioner's clothing factory
designated the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America as their bargaining representative. Attempts of the
Union to negotiate with petitioner proved unsuccessful
because of the latter's refusal to bargain, and the Union

FRANKS BROS. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
702

703

Opinion of the Court.

filed with the Board a petition for an investigation and
certification of representatives. A consent election was
scheduled for July 25, and notices posted. Before the
election was held, petitioner conducted an aggressive campaign against the Union, even to the extent of threatening to close its factory if the Union won the election.
Thereupon the Union withdrew its petition for an election, and filed charges with the Board alleging that petitioner had engaged in unfair labor practices.
In the following months various conferences were held
and correspondence exchanged between petitioner and the
Board in an unsuccessful effort to persuade the petitioner
to cease opposition to the Union. Finally on March 2,
1942, the Board issued a complaint against petitioner.
Hearings on the complaint were conducted at length, and
in October 1942 a final order was entered. The finding
of the Board, not here challenged, was that the foregoing
conduct of petitioner, together with related conduct unnecessary to be detailed, constituted unfair labor practices within the meaning of § 8 (1) and (5) of the National Labor Relations Act; 49 Stat. 449, 452, 453; 29
U. S. C. § 158 (1) and (5).
In reaching its conclusion as to the appropriate remedy
for these unfair practices, the Board considered petitioner's contention that during the seven-month interval between the filing of the charges and the issuance of the
complaint, thirteen of the Union's original members had
been replaced by new employees in the normal course of
business. This left the Union with only thirty-two of
the eighty-five employees then in the unit which it represented, or less than a majority. But the Board found
that the Union's lack of a majority was "not determinative
of the remedy to be ordered." Citing many of its previous
decisions involving similar situations, the Board concluded
that "the only means by which a refusal to bargain can
be remedied is an affirmative order requiring the employer

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

to bargain with the Union which represented a majority
at the time the unfair labor practice was committed." 44
N. L. R. B. 898,917. Accordingly, because it deemed such
a provision "necessary to effectuate the policies of the
Act," the Board included in its order a requirement that
petitioner bargain collectively with the Union. The Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the Board, and directed enforcement of the order. 137 F. 2d 989. To consider an
alleged inconsistency between the Circuit Court's decision
and our decision in Labor Board v. FansteelMetallurgical
Corp., 306 U. S. 240, 261-262, we brought the case here
for review. 320 U. S. 734.
We think the decision of the Circuit Court correct under
the Act and consistent with past decisions of this Court.
Little need be added to what has been said on this subject
in other cases. Out of its wide experience, the Board
many times has expressed the view that the unlawful refusal of an employer to bargain collectively with its employees' chosen representatives disrupts the employees'
morale, deters their organizational activities, and discourages their membership in unions. The Board's study of
this problem has led it to conclude that, for these reasons,
a requirement that union membership be kept intact during delays incident to hearings would result in permitting
employers to profit from their own wrongful refusal to
bargain. See, e. g., Matter of Inland Steel Co., 9 N. L.
R. B. 783, 815-816; Matter of P. Lorillard Co., 16 N. L.
R. B. 684, 699-701. One of the chief responsibilities of
the Board is to direct such action as will dissipate the unwholesome effects of violations of the Act. See 29 U. S. C.
§ 160 (a) and (c). And, "It is for the Board, not the
courts, to determine how the effect of prior unfair labor
practices may be expunged." International Association
of Machinistsv. Labor Board, 311 U. S.72, 82.
That determination the Board has made in this case
and in similar cases by adopting a form of remedy which

FRANKS BROS. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
702

705

Opinion of the Court.

requires that an employer bargain exclusively with the
particular union which represented a majority of the employees at the time of the wrongful refusal to bargain despite that union's subsequent failure to retain its majority. The Board might well think that, were it not to
adopt this type of remedy, but instead order elections
upon every claim that a shift in union membership had
occurred during proceedings occasioned by an employer's
wrongful refusal to bargain, recalcitrant employers might
be able by continued opposition to union membership indefinitely to postpone performance of their statutory obligation. In the Board's view, procedural delays necessary fairly to determine charges of unfair labor practices
might in this way be made the occasion for further procedural delays in connection with repeated requests for
elections, thus providing employers a chance to profit from
a stubborn refusal to abide by the law. That the Board
was within its statutory authority in adopting the remedy which it has adopted to foreclose the probability of
such frustrations of the Act seems too plain for anything
but statement. See 29 U. S. C. § 160 (a) and (c).
Contrary to petitioner's suggestion, this remedy, as embodied in a Board order, does not involve any injustice to
employees who may wish to substitute for the particular
union some other bargaining agent or arrangement. For
a Board order which requires an employer to bargain with
a designated union is not intended to fix a permanent bargaining relationship without regard to new situations that
may develop. See GreatSouthern Trucking Co. v. Labor
Board, 139 F. 2d 984, 987. But, as the remedy here in
question recognizes, a bargaining relationship once rightfully established must be permitted to exist and function
for a reasonable period in which it can be given a fair
chance to succeed. See Labor Board v. Appalachian
Power Co., 140 F. 2d 217, 220-222; LaborBoard v. Botany
Worsted Mills, 133 F. 2d 876, 881-882. After such a rea-

706

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

sonable period the Board may, in a proper proceeding
and upon a proper showing, take steps in recognition of
changed situations which might make appropriate changed
bargaining relationships. Id.; see 29 U. S. C. § 159 (c).
That issuance of the order challenged by petitioner lay
within the Board's discretion is settled by our holding in
Labor Board v. P. Lorillard Co., 314 U. S. 512, 513. The
Lorillardcase, argues petitioner, is distinguishable because
in that case the Court pointed to the fact that, "The Board
had considered the effect of a possible shift in membership. . . ." Id., 513. But in this case also the Board
considered the change in membership, and in addition relied in part upon the Lorillarddecision to support its order.
We find no possible valid distinction between this and
the Lorillard case.
Nor is the Lorillarddecision inconsistent with the earlier holding in Labor Board v. Fansteel Metallurgical
Corp., 306 U. S. 240. In the latter case the Board's order
to bargain with the union rested in part on its finding
that the company should reinstate ninety-three discharged union members. The Board had not determined
in that proceeding, nor did it argue in this Court, that the
company should be compelled to bargain with the union
if these ninety-three employees were denied reinstatement. After this Court, contrary to the Board's conclusion, held that these employees properly were denied reinstatement, the situation was the same as if the Board had
not considered the effect of the change in union membership. Cf. Labor Board v. P. Lorillard Co., supra.
Affirmed.
The CHrIEF JusTIcE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

