FOLLETT v. McCORMICK.
565

Counsel for Parties.

formed to that standard and no other. Rusin moreover
had that permanent attachment to the vessel which commonly characterizes a crew. See A. L. Mechling Barge
Line v. Bassett, 119 F. 2d 995.
We conclude that only by a distorted definition of the
word "crew" as used in the Act could Rusin be restricted
to the remedy which it affords and excluded from recovery under the Jones Act or be denied relief in admiralty. See Maryland Casualty Co. v. Lawson, 94 F.
2d 190; Loverich v. Warner Co., 118 F. 2d 690; Cantey
v. McLain Line, 32 F. Supp. 1023, 114 F. 2d 1017, which
we reversed in 312 U. S. 667.
Affirmed.
AIR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs

in the result.

FOLLETT v. TOWN OF McCORMICK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 486. Argued February 11, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
A municipal ordinance imposing a flat license tax on book agents, as
applied to an evangelist or preacher who distributes religious tracts
in his home town and who makes his livelihood from such activity,
held violative of the freedom of worship guaranteed by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. P. 576.
Reversed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a conviction for violation of a municipal ordinance prescribing an occupational
license tax.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Grover C.
Powell was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. J. Fred Buzhardt and Jeff D. Griffith for
appellee.

574

OCTOBER TERMi,

1943.

Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S

Miss Dorothy Kenyon filed a brief on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant was convicted of violating an ordinance of
the town of McCormick, South Carolina which provided:
".. . the following license on business, occupation and
professions to be paid by the person or persons carrying on
or engaged in such business, occupation or professions
within the corporate limits of the Town of McCormick,
South Carolina: Agents selling books, per day $1.00, per
year $15.00." Appellant is a Jehovah's Witness and has
been certified by the Watch Tower Bible & Tract Society
as "an ordained minister of Jehovah God to preach the
gospel of God's kingdom under Christ Jesus." He is a
resident of McCormick, South Carolina, where he went
from house to house distributing certain books. He obtained his living from the money received; he had no
other source of income. He claimed that he merely offered the books for a "contribution." But there was evidence that he "offered to and did sell the books."
Admittedly he had no license from the town and refused
to obtain one. He moved for a directed verdict of not
guilty at the close of the evidence, claiming that the ordinance restricted freedom of worship in violation of the
First Amendment which the Fourteenth Amendment
makes applicable to the States. The motion was overruled and appellant was found guilty by the jury in the
Mayor's Court. That judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of General Sessions for McCormick County and
then by the Supreme Court of South Carolina. The case
is here on appeal. Judicial Code, § 237 (a), 28 U. S. C.
§344 (a).

The ordinance in this case is in all material respects
the same as the ones involved in Jones v. Opelika, 319

FOLLETT v. McCORMICK.
573

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 103, and Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105.
In those cases, the tax imposed was also a license tax"a flat tax imposed on the exercise of a privilege granted
by the Bill of Rights" and therefore an unconstitutional
exaction. Murdock v. Pennsylvania, supra, p. 113. In
those cases members of Jehovah's Witnesses had also been
found guilty of "peddling" or "selling' literature within
the meaning of the local ordinances. But since they
were engaged in a "religious" rather than a "commercial"
venture, we held that the constitutionality of the ordinances might not be measured by the standards governing the sales of wares and merchandise by hucksters and
other merchants. "Freedom of press, freedom of speech,
freedom of religion are in a preferred position." Murdock v. Pennsylvania,supra, p. 115. We emphasized that
the "inherent vice and evil" of the flat license tax is that
"it restrains in advance those constitutional liberties" and
"inevitably tends to suppress their exercise." p. 114.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina recognized those
principles but distinguished the present case from the
Murdock and Opelika decisions. It pointed out that the
appellant was not an itinerant but was a resident of the
town where the canvassing took place, and that the principle of the Murdock decision was applicable only to itinerant preachers. It stated, moreover, that appellant
earned his living "by the sale of books," that his "occupation was that of selling books and not that of colporteur,"
that "the sales proven were more commercial than religious." It concluded that the "license was required for
the selling of books, not for the spreading of religion." I
'The court also distinguished State v. Meredith, 197 S. C. 351, 15
S. E. 2d 678, where a license tax statute was construed to be inapplicable to an itinerant minister of Jehovah's Witnesses, the "sale" of
literature being "merely collateral to the main purpose in which
he was engaged, which was to preach and teach the tenets of his
religion." p. 355.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

We pointed out in the Murdock case that the distinction between "religious" activity and "purely commercial" activity would at times be "vital" in determining the
constitutionality of flat license taxes such as these. 319
U. S. p. 110. But we need not determine here by what
tests the existence of a "religion" or the "free exercise"
thereof in the constitutional sense may be ascertained
or measured. For the Supreme Court of South Carolina
conceded that "the book in question 2 is a religious book";
and it concluded "without difficulty" that "its publication and distribution come within the words, 'exercise of
religion,' as they are used in the Constitution." We must
accordingly accept as bona fide appellant's assertion that
he was "preaching the gospel" by going "from house to
house presenting the gospel of the kingdom in printed
form." Thus we have quite a different case from that of a
merchant who sells books at a stand or on the road.
The question is therefore a narrow one. It is whether
a flat license tax as applied to one who earns his livelihood as an evangelist or preacher in his home town is
constitutional. It was not clear from the records in the
Opelika and Murdock cases to what extent, if any, the
Jehovah's Witnesses there involved were dependent on
"sales" or "contributions" for a livelihood. But we did
state that an "itinerant evangelist" did not become "a
mere book agent by selling the Bible or religious tracts to
help defray his expenses or to sustain him." 319 U. S.
p. 111. Freedom of religion is not merely reserved for
those with a long purse. Preachers of the more orthodox
faiths are not engaged in commercial undertakings because they are dependent on their calling for a living.
2

Though appellant distributed more than one tract or book, the
only one before the Supreme Court of South Carolina was entitled
"Children." As stated by that court, "Tested by the tenets of other
forms of the Christian religion with which we are familiar, it is full
of heresies. But it purports to offer a plan of salvation of the human
soul in life after death . . ."

FOLLETT v. McCORMICK.
573

Opinion of the Court.

Whether needy or affluent, they avail themselves of the
constitutional privilege of a "free exercise" of their religion when they enter the pulpit to proclaim their faith.
The priest or preacher is as fully protected in his function
as the parishioners are in their worship. A flat license
tax on that constitutional privilege would be as odious
as the early "taxes on knowledge" which the framers of
the First Amendment sought to outlaw. Grosjean v.
American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 245-248. A preacher
has no less a claim to that privilege when he is not an
itinerant. We referred to the itinerant nature of the
activity in the Murdock case merely in emphasis of the
prohibitive character of the license tax as so applied. Its
unconstitutionality was not dependent on that circumstance. The exaction of a tax as a condition to the exercise of the great liberties guaranteed by the First Amendment is as obnoxious (Grosjean v. American Press Co.,
supra; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, supra) as the imposition of a censorship or a previous restraint. Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697. For, to repeat, "the power to tax
the exercise of a privilege is the power to control or suppress its enjoyment." Murdock v. Pennsylvania, supra,
p. 112.
But if this license tax would be invalid as applied to one
who preaches the Gospel from the pulpit, the judgment
below must be reversed. For we fail to see how such a tax
loses its constitutional infirmity when exacted from those
who confine themselves to their own village or town and
spread their religious beliefs from door to door or on the
street. The protection of the First Amendment is not restricted to orthodox religious practices any more than it
is to the expression of orthodox economic views. He who
makes a profession of evangelism is not in a less preferred
position than the casual worker.
This does not mean that religious undertakings must be
subsidized. The exemption from a license tax of a
preacher who preaches or a parishioner who listens does

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
MuRPEY,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

not mean that either is free from all financial burdens of
government, including taxes on income or property. We
said as much in the Murdock case. 319 U. S. p. 112. But
to say that they, like other citizens, may be subject to general taxation does not mean that they can be required to
pay a tax for the exercise of that which the First Amendment has made a high constitutional privilege.
Reversed.
MR. JusTcE REED, concurring:

My views on the constitutionality of ordinances of this
type are set out at length in Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S.
584, and in a dissent on the rehearing of the same case,
319 U. S. 117. These views remain unchanged but they
are not in accord with those announced by the Court.
My understanding of this Court's opinions in Murdock
v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105, and Jones v. Opelika, 319
U. S. 103, is that distribution of religious literature in return for money when done as a method of spreading the
distributor's religious beliefs is an exercise of religion
within the First Amendment and therefore immune from
interference by the requirement of a license. These opinions are now the law of the land.
As I see no difference in respect to the exercise of religion between an itinerant distributor and one who remains in one general neighborhood or between one who
is active part time and another who is active all of his
time, there is no occasion for me to state again views
already rejected by a majority of the Court. Consequently, I concur in the conclusion reached in the present
case.
M . JUSTIcE MURPHY, concurring:

While I am in complete accord with the opinion of the
Court, I desire to add a brief word in light of certain
statements made in the dissenting opinion. It is claimed

FOLLETT v. McCORMICK.
573

Dissent.

that the effect of our decision is to subsidize religion. But
this is merely a harsh way of saying that to prohibit the
taxation of religious activities is to give substance to the
constitutional right of religious freedom.
It is suggested that we have opened the door to exemption of wealthy religious institutions, like Trinity Church
in New York City, from the payment of taxes on property
investments from which support is derived for religious
activities. It is also charged that the decision contains
startling implications with respect to freedom of speech
and the press. I am neither disturbed nor impressed by
these allegations. We are not called upon in this case to
deal with the taxability of income arising out of extensive
holdings of commercial property and business activities
related thereto. There is an obvious difference between
taxing commercial property and investments undertaken
for profit, whatever use is made of the income, and laying
a tax directly on an activity that is essentially religious in
purpose and character or on an exercise of the privilege of
free speech and free publication.
It is wise to remember that the taxing and licensing
power is a dangerous and potent weapon which, in the
hands of unscrupulous or bigoted men, could be used to
suppress freedoms and destroy religion unless it is kept
within appropriate bounds.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON.
The present decision extends the rule announced in
Jones v. Opelika, 319 U. S. 103, and Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105.
The ordinance in question is not, in the words of the
First Amendment, a law "prohibiting the free exercise"
of religion. At the outset it should be observed that the
ordinance is not discriminatory. It lays a tax on the pursuit of occupations by which persons earn their living in
FRANKFURTER,

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Dissent.

321 U. S.

the Town of McCormick. It does not single out persons
pursuing any given occupation and exempt others. If it
were attacked as a denial of the equal protection of the
laws the contention would be frivolous.1 There is no suggestion that the purpose is other than to raise revenue
necessary for the support of government from all who enjoy the service and protection of government, and to adjust the tax laid on the appellant in the light of the aid he
derives from such service and protection.
Secondly, the ordinance lays no onerous burden on the
occupation of the appellant or any other citizen. The
tax in question is wholly unlike that considered in Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, which had the
unmistakable purpose of hitting at one out of many occupations and hitting so hard as to discourage or suppress
the pursuit of that calling. The Court there said (p.
250):
"It is not intended by anything we have said to suggest
that the owners of newspapers are immune from any of
the ordinary forms of taxation for support of the government. But this is not an ordinary form of tax, but one
single in kind, with a long history of hostile misuse against
the freedom of the press."
What then is the law under attack? It is a revenue
measure applying generally to those earning their living
in the community. It is a monetary exaction reasonably
related to the cost of maintaining society by governmental
protection, which alone renders civil liberty attainable.
Follett is not made to pay a tax for the exercise of that
which the First Amendment has relieved from taxation.
He is made to pay for that for which all others similarly
situated must pay-an excise for the occupation of street
vending. Follett asks exemption because street vending
IClark,v. Titusville, 184 U. S. 329; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas,
217 U. S. 114, 121; Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S. 477.

FOLLETT v. McCORMICK.
573

Dissent.

is, for him, also part of his religion. As a result, Follett
will enjoy a subsidy for his religion. He will save the
contribution for the cost of government which everyone
else will have to pay.
The present decision extends and reaches beyond what
was decided in Murdock v. Pennsylvania, supra. There
the community asserted the right to subject transient
preachers of religion to taxation; there the court emphasized the "itinerant" aspect of the activities sought to be
subjected to the exaction. The emphasis there was upon
the casual missionary appearances of Jehovah's Witnesses in the town and the injustice of subjecting them
to a general license tax. Here, a citizen of the community, earning his living in the community by a religious
activity, claims immunity from contributing to the cost
of the government under which he lives. The record
shows appellant "testified that he obtained his living from
the money received from those with whom he placed
books, that he had no other source of income."
Unless the phrase "free exercise," embodied in the First
Amendment, means that government must render service
free to those who earn their living in a religious calling,
no reason is apparent why the appellant, like every other
earner in the community, should not contribute his share
of the community's common burden of expense. In effect
the decision grants not free exercise of religion, in the
sense that such exercise shall not be hindered or limited,
but, on the other hand, requires that the exercise of
religion be subsidized. Trinity Church, owning great
property in New York City, devotes the income to religious ends. Must it, therefore, be exempt from paying
its fair share of the cost of government's protection of its
property?
We cannot ignore what this decision involves. If the
First Amendment grants immunity from taxation to the
exercise of religion, it must equally grant a similar exemp-

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Dissent.

321 U. S.

tion to those who speak and to the press. It will not do
to say that the Amendment, in the clause relating to religion, is couched in the imperative and, in the clause
relating to freedom of speech and of press, is couched in
the comparative. The Amendment's prohibitions are
equally sweeping. 2 If exactions on the business or occupation of selling cannot be enforced against Jehovah's
Witnesses they can no more be enforced against publishers or vendors of books, whether dealing with religion
or other matters of information. The decision now rendered must mean that the guarantee of freedom of the
press creates an immunity equal to that here upheld
as to teaching or preaching religious doctrine. Thus
the decision precludes nonoppressive, nondiscriminatory
licensing or occupation taxes on publishers, and on news
vendors as well, since, without the latter, the dissemination of views would be impossible. This court disavowed
any such doctrine with respect to freedom of the press
in Grosjean v. American Press Co., supra, and it is unthinkable that those who publish and distribute for profit
newspapers and periodicals should suggest that they are
in a class apart, untouchable by taxation upon their enterprises for the support of the government which makes
their activities possible.
Not only must the court, if it is to be consistent, accord
to dissemination of all opinion, religious or other, the same
immunity, but, even in the field of religion alone, the implications of the present decision are startling. Multiple
activities by which citizens earn their bread may, with
equal propriety, be denominated an exercise of religion
as may preaching or selling religious tracts. Certainly
this court cannot say that one activity is the exercise
of religion and the other is not. The materials for judicial
2

"Congress shall make no law . .. prohibiting the free exercise
[of religion]; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press ..."

UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE BANK.
573

583

Syllabus.

distinction do not exist. It would be difficult to deny the
claims of those who devote their lives to the healing of the
sick, to the nursing of the disabled, to the betterment of
social and economic conditions, and to a myriad other
worthy objects, that their respective callings, albeit they
earn their living by pursuing them, are, for them, the exercise of religion. Such a belief, however earnestly and honestly held, does not entitle the believers to be free of
contribution to the cost of government, which itself guarantees them the privilege of pursuing their callings without governmental prohibition or interference.
We should affirm the judgment.
UNITED STATES v. SEATTLE-FIRST NATIONAL
BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 267. Argued February 7, 8, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
Under authority of § 3 of the National Banking Act, as amended,
and pursuant to a consolidation agreement, a state bank was consolidated in 1935 with a national banking association. The transfer to the consolidated association of title to the property of the
state bank was not evidenced by deed, conveyance, assignment or
other instrument. Held:
1. In respect of (a) securities held by the state bank as legal
and beneficial owner and (b) securities to which the state bank
held legal title in fiduciary capacities, the transfer was "wholly by
operation of law" within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 71
(1932 ed.), Arts. 34 (r) and 35 (r), and thereby exempt from the
stamp tax imposed by § 800, Schedule A, pars. 3 and 9, of the
Revenue Act of 1926, as amended. P. 5S8.
2. The transfer to the consolidated association of the realty of
the state bank was not subject to the stamp tax imposed by § 800,
Schedule A-S, of the Revenue Act of 1926, as amended, since the
property was not conveyed by any "deed, instrument, or writing,"
was not "sold," and there was no "purchaser." P. 589.
136 F. 2d 676, affirmed.
576281-44--41

