GOODYEAR CO. v. RAY-O-VAC CO.
Counsel for Parties.

253

the case. The amended plea of unconstitutionality did
not raise a new issue but merely gave a new label-the
Fourteenth Amendment-to the issue they tendered under the Fifth Amendment, dependence on which they reaffirmed. For the appellees, in the petition to prove the
will, have assumed the full liability for whatever taxes
are constitutionally due from the estate. We ought not
to create a constitutional grievance which the parties
themselves have never entertained in order to avoid adjudication of the only question which has been in the case
from the beginning.

GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO., INC. ET AL.

V.

RAY-O-VAC COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 262.

Argued February 2, 3, 1944.-Decided February 28, 1944.

1. Concurrent findings of the District Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals in a patent infringement suit will not be set aside unless
clearly erroneous. P. 278.
2. Anthony Patent No. 2,198,423, Claims 1, 2 and 3, for a leakproof
dry cell for a flashlight battery, held valid and infringed. P. 278.
3. Defenses based on insufficiency of description of the invention and
on flle-wrapper estoppel are not supported by the evidence. P. 279.
136 F. 2d 159, affirmed.

CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 727, to review the affirmance of

a decree for the plaintiff (45 F. Supp. 927) in a suit for
infringement of a patent.
Messrs. William E. Chilton and Albert R. Golrick for
petitioners.
Messrs. Bernard A. Schroeder and Gerhard A. Gesell,
with whom Messrs. Russell Wiles and CharlesJ. Merriam
were on the brief, for respondent.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case involves the validity and alleged infringement of the Anthony Patent No. 2,198,423, issued April
23, 1940. The District Court held the patent valid and
infringed' and its judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
2
Court of Appeals.
The patent, a very narrow one in a crowded art, is for
a leak-proof dry cell for a flashlight battery. The conventional dry cell embodies a cup-like zinc electrode acting as
a container for a central carbon electrode, electrolyte, and
depolarizing mix. The bottom enclosure is the terminal
for one electrode, the top enclosure for the other. The
electrolyte is a viscous liquid composed of ammonium
chloride, zinc chloride, water and starch. Use of the battery causes erosion of the zinc and eventually the mixture
leaks through the container. A short circuit, or long continuous use, causes the formation of solids as the zinc is
eaten away. The resultant expansion of the cell contents, due to the weakness of the zinc walls, causes bulging, breaking, and seepage. The escaping liquid tends to
injure the metal walls of the flashlight casing.
Dry cells have been used in flashlights for many years.
The tendency of the cells to damage flashlight containers
by leakage, bulging, and freezing in the container had long
plagued the industry. So much so that most manufacturers attached warning notices to their flashlight batteries
advising users not to allow them to remain in the flashlight for extended periods of non-use and to remove a cell
promptly upon ascertaining that it was dead.
No patent in the prior art addressed itself to the problem of preventing both leakage and swelling in a dry cell.
At the time of the Anthony application flashlight cells
were commonly encased in a paper coating which might
145 F. Supp. 927.
2 136 F. 2d 159.

GOODYEAR CO. v. RAY-O-VAC CO.
275

Opinion of the Court.

or might not be waterproofed, or in some other similar casing for purposes of insulation from the case. In the
patent in suit Anthony calls attention to the existing
difficulties and states that his invention is for an improved
protective casing which will prevent fluids from leaking
out of the cell and causing injury to the case or other dry
cells within it. He also adverts to the tendency of the
cells to swell after a certain time and associates this swelling with the leaking. He states that the object of his
invention is to protect the side walls of the zinc cup by
providing a strong metal sheath which will closely and
rigidly confine the cell to a given length and diameter and,
while providing such a sheath, to insulate it from both
terminals so as to render unnecessary the use of an insulating cover or label to prevent the cell from short-circuiting by contact with the side walls of the case. To
accomplish his objects Anthony used the ordinary type
of dry cell having circuit terminals at opposite ends, one
electrode being a cylindrical zinc cup, the other a centrally
placed carbon electrode, in electrolyte and depolarizing
mix, the bottom closure affording a terminal for one
electrode and the top for the other. Around this conventional combination he placed an insulating material
and an outside protecting metal sheath which would enclose the insulated side walls of the zinc cup and tightly
embrace both upper and lower closures to prevent
leakage.
The claims in suit are Nos. 1, 2, and 3. If 1 is good, 2
and 3 are also. We, therefore, quote 1:
"A leak-immunized flashlight dry-cell provided with
circuit terminals at opposite ends, comprising: a hollow
cylindrical zinc metal electrode containing electrolyte; a
centrally disposed carbon electrode and depolarizing-mix
in said electrolyte; a bottom closure for the cell affording
a terminal for one of the electrodes; a top closure for the
cell provided with a terminal for the other electrode,

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

electrically insulated from the first mentioned terminal;
and a protecting sheet-metal sheath insulated from both
of said electrodes and enclosing the side walls of said
metal electrode and tightly embracing said closures so as
to prevent leakage of the electrolyte from the unit."
The District Judge made findings, which have support
in the evidence, to the following effect: That the problem
presented was old and no solution was attained prior to
Anthony's invention; that the respondent began marketing the patented cell in 1939 and was the first to guarantee
its product against sticking in the flashlight case; that the
cell met with immediate commercial success due to the
advantages of its construction and not to extensive advertising; that its advantages were recognized by the Army
and other governmental agencies and were demonstrated
by reliable tests. In his opinion he examined the prior
art and showed that none of the workers in the art had
met the problems of leakage and swelling in the way suggested by Anthony and that most of the cited patents had
not in fact been addressed to these problems.
With respect to the charge of infringement, the court
found, on sufficient evidence: That the petitioners consciously copied the respondent's commercial cell, which
was made in accordance with the claims of the patent;
that the petitioners' cell infringed the claims in suit, since
the petitioners' substitutions of structure and material
were no more than the choice of mechanical alternatives
and did not avoid the practice of the principle disclosed by
the patent.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reexamined the findings
in the light of the evidence and accepted them. It must
be a strong case in which this court will set aside these
concurrent findings of two courts.' We think this is not
such a case.
a Williams Mfg. Co. v. United Shoe Machinery Corp., 316 U.
367.

S. 364,

GOODYEAR CO v. RAY-O-VAC CO.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

275

Viewed after the event, the means Anthony adopted
seem simple and such as should have been obvious to those
who worked in the field, but this is not enough to negative
invention.' During a period of half a century, in which
the use of flashlight batteries increased enormously, and
the manufacturers of flashlight cells were conscious of the
defects in them, no one devised a method of curing such
defects. Once the method was discovered it commended
itself to the public as evidenced by marked commercial
success. These factors were entitled to weight in determining whether the improvement amounted to invention
and should, in a close case, tip the scales in favor of patentability.5

Accepting, as we do, the findings below, we hold

the patent valid and infringed.
The petitioners renew here contentions, based on asserted insufficiency of description of the invention and on
alleged fie-wrapper estoppel, which the courts below overruled. We have considered these defenses but conclude
that the proofs do not sustain them.
Decree affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting:
Those who strive to produce and distribute goods in a
system of free competitive enterprise should not be handicapped by patents based on a "shadow of a shade of an
idea." Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200. The
practice of granting patents for microscopic structural or
' Loom Company v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, 589, 591; The Barbed
Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275, 277, 283; Krementz v. S. Cottle Co., 148
U. S. 556; Expanded Metal Co. v. Bradford, 214 U. S. 366, 381;
Diamond Rubber Co. v. Consolidated Tire Co., 220 U. S. 428, 434-435.
5
Smith v. Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Co., 93 U. S. 486, 495-6;
Magowan v. New York Belting Co., 141 U. S. 332, 343; Topliff v. Topliff, 145 U. S. 156, 163, 164; Keystone Mfg. Co. v. Adams, 151 U. S.
139, 143; Potts v. Creager, 155 U. S. 597, 609; Minerals Separation,
Ltd. v. Hyde, 242 U. S. 261, 270; Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1, 7, 14;
ParamountPublix Corp. v. Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 464, 474.
576281-44----22

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

mechanical improvements inevitably must reduce the
United States Patent Office to a mass production factory
for unearned special privileges which serve no purpose
except unfairly to harass the honest pursuit of business.
If the patentee here has "discovered" anything, it is that
the creamy substance in a dry cell will not leak through
a steel jacket which covers and is securely fastened to the
ends of the cell. For that alleged discovery this patent
is today upheld. I do not deny that someone, somewhere,
sometime, made the discovery that liquids would not leak
through leak-proof solids. My trouble is that, despite
findings to the contrary,1 I cannot agree that this patentee
is that discoverer. My disagreement is not based solely
on the narrow ground that the record shows previous
patents have been issued to others who put jackets of metal
and other substances around dry cells. Antiquarians tell
us that the use of solid containers to hold liquids predated
the dawn of written history. That the problem of the
quality and strength of the walls of such containers was
one to which ancient people turned their attention appears
from the widespread currency at an early age of the maxim
that "new wine should not be put in old bottles." It is
impossible for me to believe that Congress intended to
grant monopoly privileges to persons who do no more than
apply knowledge which has for centuries been the universal possession of all the earth's people-even those of
the most primitive civilizations.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs and MIR. JusTICE MuRPY concur in this opinion.
MIR. JusTIcn JAcxsoN is of opinion the judgment below
should be reversed for the reason that, invention being
1 This Court in 1884 declared that "whether the thing patented
amounts to a patentable invention" is a question of law to be decided by the courts. Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, 358. On
numerous occasions both before and since that case, this Court has

SECURITY MILLS CO. v. COMM'R.
275

Syllabus.

doubtful, the Court of Appeals relied upon commercial
success of the product without adequate findings or evidence as to whether such alleged success was due to the
product or to the phenomenal increase in demand due to
the war and to the advantages of marketing contracts with
mail-order houses.

SECURITY FLOUR MILLS CO. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH3 CIRCUIT.

No. 276. Argued February 10, 1944.--Decided February 28, 1944.
1. The rule that a taxpayer (on the accrual basis) may not accrue an
expense the amount of which is unsettled or the liability for which
is contingent is applicable to a tax the liability for which he denies
and payment of which he is contesting. P. 284.
2. In 1935 a taxpayer (on the accrual basis) made sales of flour at
prices which included an amount sufficient to cover a federal processing tax. In the same year, the taxpayer obtained a temporary injunction against collection of the tax, on condition that the amount
thereof be deposited pendente lite. In 1936 the tax was held invalid
and the impounded funds were returned to the taxpayer. Held that
payments made by the taxpayer in 1936, 1937 and 1938 to reimburse
customers for the amount of the tax on such sales were not deductible from gross income for 1935. Pp. 283, 285.
3. Section 43 of the Revenue Act of 1934, which requires that deductions be taken for the taxable year in which the amount was paid or
accrued, "unless in order to clearly reflect income the deductions or
credits should be taken as of a different period," does not authorize
or require that deduction of the payments here in question be taken
as of the taxable year 1935. Pp. 284, 287.
135 F. 2d 165, affirmed.
invalidated patents on the ground that the alleged discoveries failed
to measure up to the legal standards for invention. See cases collected
United States Supreme Court Digest (West 1943), Patents, Vol. 11,
Par. 16-74.

