OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

amended, 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 45a. Whether Boston had
sufficient interest to intervene as of right before the Commission and in the District Court we need not decide, the
issue here being only whether Boston has such an "independent right which is violated" by the decision against
Cornell as will support an independent appeal. Alexander Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281 U. S. 249, 255.
Clearly it has not. See Edward Hines Trustees v. United
States, 263 U. S. 143; The ChicagoJunction Case,264 U. S.
258, 266-269; Alexander Sprunt & Son v. United States,
supra; Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry. Co. v. United
States, 281 U. S. 479, 486-488; Moffat Tunnel League v.
UnitedStates, 289 U. S. 113; cf. Kansas City SouthernRy.
Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 760; L. Singer & Sons v.
Union PacificR. Co., 311 U. S. 295.
Appeal dismissed.
CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 384. Argued March 1, 2, 1944.-Decided April 3, 1944.
Appellant operated tugboats for hire in and about New York harbor
and on the Hudson River. The tugboats carried no cargo but
towed cargo vessels belonging to others. Operations were between
New York and New Jersey, but mostly between points in New
York and other points in the same State. Held:
1. Appellant was a "water carrier" within the meaning of Part
III of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 636.
2. The finding of the Interstate Commerce Commission that
appellant was a "common carrier by water," within the meaning
of § 302 (d) of the Act, is supported by substantial evidence and
is sustained. P. 637.
3. Under § 302 (i) (1) of the Act, which defines "interstate
transportation" as including transportation "wholly by water
from a place in a State to a place in another State," appellant's

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

635

Opinion of the Court.

towage operations between New York and New Jersey were subject to regulation. P. 638.
4. Section 302 (i) (1) is properly construed to apply also to
appellant's towage operations between points in New York and

other points in the same State, where in the course of such operations the tows regularly crossed into New Jersey waters. P. 638.
53 F. Supp. 349, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of a district court of three
judges, which dismissed a suit to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Robert S. Erskine for appellant.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce,with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Berge, and i.essrs. Walter J.
Cummings, Jr., Daniel W. Knowlton, and Edward M.
Reidy were on the brief, for the United States et al.; Mr.
ChristopherE. Heckman argued the cause, and Mr. James
A. Martin was on the brief, for the National Water Carriers Association, Inc.,--appellees.

MR. JUSTICE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Cornell operates tugboats for hire on the Hudson River
and in and about New York harbor. Its tugs carry no
cargo but move scows, barges, and similar vessels belonging to others which thenfselves usually carry cargo. This
towing service Cornell offers to perform for the public in
general. About ninety-five per cent of the vessels which
it serves are moved from points in New York to other
points in the same State, but these movements generally
traverse New Jersey as well as New York waters. Part
III of the Interstate Commerce Act' provides that contract or common carriers by water in interstate commerce
are subject to the Act's regulating provisions. In appropriate proceedings the Interstate Commerce Commission
held Cornell's business covered. 250 I. C. C. 301; 250
1Transportation Act of 1940, c. 722, 54 Stat. 898, 929.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

I. C. C. 577. A three judge District Court sustained the
Commission's order. 53 F. Supp. 349. The case is here
on direct appeal. 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 345.
First. Cornell argues that its towboats are not "water
carriers" within the meaning of Part III of the Act. Looking at Part III, we find that, read together, §§ 302 (c), (d)
and (e) define a "water carrier" as any person who engages in the "transportation by water . . . of . . . property . . . for compensation." Section 302 (h) defines
"transportation" as including "all services in or in connection with transportation," as well as "the use of any transportation facility." Any "vessel," which means any
"watercraft," § 302 (f), is such a facility. § 302 (g).
Congress has thus carefully and explicitly set out the
conditions which in combination describe the kinds of
carriers it intended to subject to regulation. Cornell's
tugboats fall squarely within the description. If further
proof of this be needed, §§ 303 (f) (1) and (2) expressly
exempt from regulation under Part III certain types of
towage service, but not that such as Cornell provides.
Congress hardly would have exempted some towers, as
it did in these sections, had it intended to exempt all
towers.
Nevertheless, Cornell argues that the Act's language,
which appears on its face plainly to include transportation by means of towers, should not be so construed. In
support of this contention, it is said that towers do not
have that common law or statutory liability to shippers
which generally attaches to common carriers, see Sun Oil
Co. v. Dalzell Towing Co., 287 U. S. 291; cf. The Murrell,
200 F. 826; and that a "carrier" has been judicially defined
as one who undertakes to transport the goods of another,
a definition not inclusive of Cornell, since it does not make
contracts to carry goods but only to move vessels which
have goods on them. See Sacramento Navigation Co. v.
Salz, 273 U. S. 326, 328; The PropellerNiagarav. Cordes,

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

Opinion of the Court.

21 How. 7, 22. But the authorities relied upon by Cornell
are of little or no assistance here. The case at bar does
not require that we determine at large the legal obligations
of a tower or define the usual characteristics of a carrier.
We are called upon only to interpret a single Act of Congress. With unquestioned power to regulate Cornell's
business, Congress in this Act has given its own definition to Cornell's activities in words literally inclusive of
those activities, and which operate to subject to the Act
interstate activities in the business of towing, which at
common law was a common calling. Sproul v. Hemmingway, 14 Pick. 1, 6. The Act in which Congress has included this definition is designed, not to determine the
legal status of vessels for all purposes,2 but to provide
for regulation of the rates and services of competing interstate water carriers as part of a broad plan of regulation
for all types of competing interstate transportation facilities. Cornell is in active competition with other types of
interstate water carriers as well as with trucks and railroads. Therefore, if Cornell's particular method of providing water transportation facilities for others is not subject
to regulation under the Act, it would appear to present an
anomalous exception to the Congressional plan for regulation of competing transportation activities. We conclude that the language of the Act brings Cornell's business
within its coverage, and that to construe the Act otherwise
would frustrate the purpose of Congress.
Second. Cornell argues that even if it is covered by
Part III of the Act, there was error in holding it to be a
"common" rather than a "contract" carrier. Section 302
2 Compare § 320 (d) of Part III of the Act: "Nothing in this part
shall be construed to affect any law of navigation, the admiralty
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, liabilities of vessels
and their owners for loss or damage, or laws respecting seamen, or
any other maritime law, regulation, or custom not in conflict with the
provisions of this part." 49 U. S. C. § 920 (d) ; 54 Stat. 950.

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

(d) defines a "common carrier" as one "which holds itself
out to the general public to engage in the transportation
by water . . . of . . . property . . . for compensation."
The Commission found from evidence offered that Cornell
did so hold itself out to the general public. Upon review
the District Court held the Commission's finding was supported by substantial evidence. The opinions of the Commission and the District Court showed the evidence relied
on and it is unnecessary to repeat it here. Sufficient it is to
say that we agree with the District Court's conclusion.
Third. The five per cent of Cornell's business which consists of moving vessels between New York and New Jersey
ports is unquestionably covered by the Act, because § 302
(i) (1) specifically includes transportation "wholly by
water from a place in a State to a place in any other
State." I But about ninety-five per cent of the vessels
towed by Cornell are picked up at New York ports and
pulled to other ports in the same State. Cornell contends that none of these movements come within the Commission's jurisdiction. We accept findings of the Commission and the District Court that at least a substantial
proportion of these latter movements regularly and ordinarily pass over New Jersey territorial waters. While
moving on New Jersey waters, Cornell's vessels are not
-This section should be read together with §§ 303 (j) and (k)
of Part III which are as follows:
"(j) Nothing in this part shall be construed to interfere with the
exclusive exercise by each State of the power to regulate intrastate
commerce by water carriers within the jurisdiction of such State.

"(k) Nothing in this part shall authorize the Commission to prescribe or regulate any rate, fare, or charge for intrastate transportation, or for any service connected therewith, for the purpose of removing discrimination against interstate commerce or for any other

purpose."
The words "intrastate commerce" and "intrastate transportation"
as used in these two subsections are not expressly defined in Part

I.

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

Opinion of the Court.

at that time at "a place" in New York. Certain of its
towing activities therefore actually move vessels from
places in New York to places in New Jersey and thence
back to places in New York. Such movements, if made
on land by rail carriers, would be classified as interstate
for regulatory purposes under previous decisions of this
Court; I and, as the Commission's opinion points out,
these decisions have cast grave doubts upon the power
of a single state to regulate such movements in whole or
in part. Water transportation between two ports of a
single state may touch many other states, and pass through
hundreds of miles of other states' waters, far removed from
the state in which the terminal ports of the voyage are
located. Power of the Commission to regulate such movements appears to come well within the broad purposes
declared by Congress in passing legislation designed comprehensively to coordinate a national system of all types
of transportation. We are unpersuaded that Congress
has inadvertently left such a gap in its plan as acceptance
of Cornell's argument would create.
The pertinent language Congress used in defining what
should be interstate commerce in Part III of the Act reg4 Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617. The rule
of the Hanley case has not been changed by the cases holding that
companies engaged in such transportation movements are subject
to taxation by the state where the terminal points are located. See
Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Sohmer, 235 U. S. 549; Lehigh Valley R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192; Ewing v. Leavenworth, 226 U. S.
464, 468-469.
Compare Wilmington TransportationCo. v. Railroad Comm'n, 236
U. S. 151, 155-156, which held that transportation on the high seas
between two points within the state of California, Santa Catalina
Island and San Pedro, being "local" and not involving "passage
through the territory of another state," was subject to rate regulation by California in the absence of controlling federal legislation.
For a general survey of state and federal legislation pertaining to
regulation of water carriers, see Regulation of Transportation Agencies, Senate Document No. 152, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 5-13, 98-170.

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

ulating water carriers is to all practical intents and purposes the same as it used in Part I regulating rail carriers."
Part III of the Act, including this definition, first was
drafted in the House Committee on Interstate Commerce
as part of a general revision of an omnibus transportation
bill (S. 2009) proposed by the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce. See H. R. No. 1217,76th Cong., 1st Sess.
In reporting on the provisions of Part III, the House Committee, a body well acquainted with transportation legislation, made the statement that, "Most of the regulatory provisions included in the new part III were modeled on provisions of part I dealing with the same subject." Id., p. 18.
At the time of this report, the definition of interstate
commerce in Part I upon which that in Part III was
modeled had long before been interpreted both by the
Commission and the courts as broad enough to cover railroad movements which pass through the territory of two
states, even though the freight be carried from a place in
one state to another place in the same state. Missouri
PacificR. Co. v. Stroud, 267 U. S. 404.1
Parts I, II, and IV of the Interstate Commerce Act, relating respectively to regulation of rail carriers, motor carriers, and freight forwarders, explicitly or by judicial interpretation cover all shipments which pass through the territory of two or more states even though both terminal
points are in the same state.' And so if railroads or truck5See Note 7, infra.
6 See also Wells-Higman Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 18 1 C.
C. 175,176; Willman & Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 22 1. C. C.
405; Security Cement & Lime Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 113
I. C. C. 579; United States v. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 152 F. 269,
271-272 (C. C. S. D. N. Y.).
Part I, § 1 (1) of the Act confers jurisdiction over "transportation
... wholly by railroad . . . from one State... to any other State."
49 U. S. C. § 1 (1); 24 Stat. 379 as amended. As previously stated
this has been construed to include transportation starting in one

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

FRA~xru

TEI ,

J., dissenting.

ers should use tugs for the same purposes and over the same
route as Cornell the movements would be interstate under
the Act and subject to regulation by the Commission; and
apparently the same is true of freight forwarders. From
the language of Part III of the Act, its history, and its general purpose, we conclude that the Commission and District Court correctly decided Cornell's transportation
through New York and New Jersey waters also is subject
to regulation by the Commission.8
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicE I RAwFuuRm , dissenting in part:

When in 1940 Congress provided for the regulation of
water carriers in interstate and foreign commerce, it defined "transportation in interstate . . . commerce" for
state, passing through a second state, and returning to the first state.
See Note 6, supra.
Part II, § 203 (a) (10) of the Act defines the "interstate commerce"
by motor vehicle over which the Commission has jurisdiction as including "commerce ... between places in the same State through
another State...

"

49 U. S. C. § 303 (10); 49 Stat. 543, 544, as

amended.
And Part IV, § 402 (a) (6) defines that transportation which shall
be deemed "interstate commerce" for the purpose of regulation of
freight forwarders as including "transportation ... between points
within the same State but through any place outside thereof." 49
U. S. C. § 1002 (a) (6); 56 Stat. 284, 285.
8
As reported in the Senate, the original omnibus transportation bill
(S. 2009) contained a single definition of "interstate commerce" applicable alike to rail, motor, and water carriers. This definition embodied
the holding of the Stroud case (267 U. S. 404) cited in our opinion by
expressly including "transportation . . . between places in the same
State by a route . . . passing beyond the borders of said State." § 3

(25), Bill S. 2009, reported to the Senate May 16, 1939. It has been
suggested that the failure of the House Committee's revision of Bill S.
2009 to retain this part of the definition contained in the original bill
indicates an intention that the rule of the Stroud case should not apply
to water transportation. In reaching our conclusion in the present case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxyRTaua,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

the purpose of such regulation to mean "transportation of
persons or property-(1) wholly by water from a place
in a State to a place in any other State, whether or not
such transportation takes place wholly in the United
States." § 302 (i) (1) of the Transportation Act of 1940,
54 Stat. 898, 929, 49 U. S. C. § 902 (i) (1). To the extent
that the decision of the Court construes the field of regulation thus defined by Congress to include tugboats moving on the Hudson River from place to place in New York
simply because they leave the New York boundary of the
river and navigate on what are deemed Jersey waters, I
dissent.
we have considered this suggestion and have rejected it for several
reasons.
In the first place, the House Committee's failure to retain in Part III
the particular language of the definition of "interstate commerce" in
original S. 2009 is sufficiently explained by the fact, noted in the body
of our opinion, that the Committee modeled Part III, not upon the
provisions of original S. 2009, but upon the existing Part I of the Act.
And from the report of the House Committee, a body experienced in
matters of transportation legislation, we may fairly infer that, in thus
using the language of Part I, it had in mind the same objective as the
Senate Committee which drafted the original S. 2009, namely to save
"so far as possible the existing language so that full advantage may be
taken of the many interpretations, both judicial and administrative,
which have been put upon the respective sections." See S. R. No. 433,
76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4; and H. R. No. 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 18-19. Cf. McLean Trucking Co. v. United States, 321 U. S. 67,
77-80.
Furthermore, had the experienced House Committee intended to
place in Part Ifl a definition of "interstate commerce" different in
scope from that in Part I, it hardly would have expressed such an intention by adopting substantially the identical language of Part I.
But neither the House nor the Senate Committee appears to have had
any such intention. As shown by their reports and the language of
the bills which they drafted, the intention of both Committees, and of
Congress, was to provide for regulation of the same sort of interstate
water shipments as already were being regulated in the case of interstate rail shipments. See H. R. No. 1217, supra;S. R. No. 433. supra.

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

FRNxFuR'nR, J., dissenting.

The problem is here, as it was before the Commission,
for the first time. And the Court's duty of construction
is not aided by the light of continuous administrative
practice, though of course even the initial conclusion by
the Commission on such a question of law should have its
weight. But since the matter ultimately turns on general
considerations regarding the manner in which legislation
should be construed, I deem it appropriate to add a few
words to the views expressed by Commissioner Splawn
that Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act does not
bring within the regulatory powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission transportation on a boundary stream
between points in the same State merely because a water
carrier crosses a state boundary in a stream.
The terms by which Congress conferred jurisdiction
upon the Commission successively over rail carriers, motor
carriers and water carriers are different. In a field so well
trodden as this, involving as it does the distribution of
authority as between States and Nation over transportation facilities of interest to both governments, one would
suppose that only the environment of legislation and the
history of its enactment could dislodge the natural assumption that different literary roads taken by Congress
had different objectives. For we are here concerned with
three different definitions having different genealogies in
the general field of regulation incorporated in one piece
of legislation, namely the Transportation Act of 1940.
There is nothing in the legislative history of the extent
of the power over transportation by water carriage committed to the Commission to show that Congress meant
that the phrasing which it employed was in purpose to be
identic with the different phrasings Congress used as to
rail and motor carriers. The legislative history indicates
the contrary.
The Cullom Act of 1887, as is well known, was in direct
response to Wabash, St. L. & P. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
F&

TmamTm,
J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

U. S. 557. That decision rested fundamentally on the
view that rail transportation has a physical unity and to
such an extent that, as held very early, regulation of rail
rates cannot be "split up" between two States or left only
to one State even as to transportation which begins and
ends in the same State but passes through the territory
of another. See Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.,
187 U. S. 617. The terms in which Congress granted regulatory power over railroads to the Interstate Commerce
Commission reflected this view. The Commission was
authorized to regulate rail transportation "from one
State . . . to any other State," but the provisions of the
Act were not to apply "to the transportation . . . wholly
within one State . . ." § 1 of the Act to Regulate Com-

merce, 24 Stat. 379, 49 U. S. C. §§ 1 (1), (2) (a). When
Congress in 1935 brought motor carriers within the regulatory powers of the Commission, it was not content to
define the scope of the transportation to be regulated in
terms of the scope of the regulated railroad transportation. It defined the motor transportation to be regulated
to include "commerce between any place in a State and
any place in another State or between places in the same
State through another State." § 203 (a) (10) of the
Motor Carrier Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 543, 544, 49 U. S. C.
§ 303 (a) (10). It used this explicit and precise language
because the conditions of motor transportation in relation
to state control differ from the conditions of interstate
railroad transportation, and it wished to leave no doubt
whatever that it was regulating rates on motor transportation within the same State through another. The same
explicitness was again used by Congress when in 1942 it
swept freight forwarders who serve interstate transportation within federal control. § 402 (a) (6), 56 Stat. 284,
285,49 U. S. C. (Supp. 1942) § 1002 (a) (6).
A totally different situation was presented to Congress
by the heavy water traffic on boundry streams through-

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

FRANxruRTn_,

J., dissenting.

out the country. In his report as Federal Coordinator
of Transportation, the late Commissioner Eastman
pointed out that thirty-two States had laws regulating
water transportation "on inland waters and in some instances on bordering streams or lakes and coastal waters."
Sen. Doc. No. 152, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 158. This Court,
in PortRichmond Ferry Co. v. Hudson County, 234 U. S.
317, had occasion to call attention to this lively water traffic which, throughout our history, presented "a situation
essentially local requiring regulation according to local
conditions." 234 U. S. at 332. For that reason it sustained state regulation of ferry rates even for transportation from one State to another.- The doctrine of Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., supra,is thus a doctrine applicable to railroads and has not been applied to
water carriers. See Wilmington Transportation Co. v.
RailroadComm'n, 236 U. S. 151, 155-156.
In 1940 Congress did undertake to regulate water transportation. But in view of the different ways in which
rail, motor and water transportation are entangled with
state interests and therefore state authority, it becomes
vital to heed the exact language in which Congress expressed its purpose of regulation and the manner in which
it finally passed the provisions by which it defined the
Commission's authority.
1"It has never been supposed that because of the absence of Federal action the public interest was unprotected from extortion and
that in order to secure reasonable charges in a myriad of such different local instances, exhibiting an endless variety of circumstance,
it would be necessary for Congress to act directly or to establish for
The practical advantages of
that purpose a Federal agency ...
having the matter dealt with by the States are obvious and are illustrated by the practice of one hundred and twenty-five years. And in
view of the character of the subject, we find no sound objection to
its continuance. If Congress at any time undertakes to regulate such
rates, its action will of course control." 234 U. S. at 332.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRmNxFURTER, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

In a word, the bill as enacted was in quite a different
form from the bill as originally introduced. As the bill
came out of the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce and as passed by the Senate it had this provision:
"the term 'interstate commerce' means transportation
. . . from a place in one State . . . to a place in another
State . . . or between places in the same State by a

route or routes passing beyond the borders of said State
. .")

84 Cong. Rec. 5964. This was not merely a choice

of language but a choice of purpose. The Committee
and the Senate, that is, asserted a control as extensive as
that which Congress asserted in 1935 over motor carriers.
The practical result of the purpose thus manifested was
to exclude state control over water carriers from port to
port in the same State but entering the water of a border
State. The House evidently had other views, for that provision was deleted after the Senate bill was committed
to the House Committee. That Committee reported and
the House passed this restrictive provision: "The term
'interstate or foreign transportation' . . . means trans-

portation of persons or property-(1) wholly by water
from a place in a State to a place in any other State,
whether or not such transportation takes place wholly in
the United States." 84 Cong. Rec. 9956. The Senate
receded from its formulation (H. Rep. No. 2016, 76th
Cong., 3d Sess., p. 30), and the restrictive House provision
became the law. But we are now told that this change
from explicit assumption of jurisdiction is meaningless,
and the fact that the provision in the Senate bill was left
out as the bill went through the House, the Conference
and to passage has precisely the same significance as
though the original Senate provision had remained in it.
As to this as well as other phases of water transportation,
Congress circumscribed the Commission's authority and
left state regulation to continue to operate as to matters

CORNELL STEAMBOAT CO. v. U. S.
634

FRANKFuRTER,

J., dissenting.

which, in the case of rail and motor transportation, federal
control has been asserted. Thus for instance, use of the
Shreveport doctrine (see Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v.
UnitedStates, 234 U. S. 342)-the control over state rates
discriminatory against interstate rates-is explicitly denied (§ 303 (k)), and numerous other exceptions and
exemptions show "congressional intent to confer more
limited jurisdiction than has been given in the other parts
of the act." 250 I. C. C. 577,586.
No doubt, as the House Committee said, "Most of the
regulatory provisions included in the new part III were
modeled on provisions of part I dealing with the same subject." H. R. No. 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 18. In
its context, the idea behind the phrase "regulatory provisions" bears on how to regulate, not what is regulated.
And the fact that "most" provisions were the same, not all,
indicates that variations from Part I were made in Part
III. When therefore we find differences in definition of
the "commerce" to be regulated between Part I and Part
III, it will not do to disregard them and find identity
through variation. Particularly is this true when there
are practical differences to account for the variation. We
must first define the field of the regulation-what "commerce" between two points in the same State but going
through another becomes federally regulated although
theretofore free from state regulation as was rail transportation, and what "commerce" is given over to federal
regulation although theretofore it was within the province
of state regulation as was water transportation in a situation like that under discussion. We thus have the practical differences between water-borne and land traffic, the
practical problems in the distribution between state and
federal power raised by water-borne traffic on boundary
streams, and the actual differences in the definitions of
"commerce" in the same Act of Congress responding to
570281-4----4

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANx=Tm ,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

these differences of fact between water-borne and land
transportation. All enjoin judicial regard for these differences in the construction of the statute.
The definition originally proposed in the Senate bill
was intended to cover all three types of carrier-rail, water
and motor. Particularization in this proposed definition
of transportation within one State but through a second
is clear proof that the Hanley doctrine applicable to rail
carriers did not carry over to water and motor carriage.
When Congress finally rejected the all-inclusive definition
proposed by the Senate and decided on separate definitions
of the commerce to be regulated, it did so precisely because
it realized that the legal situation as to the three types
was not the same. This careful process of distinctive
definition by Congress is now in effect held to have been
a futile legislative endeavor. The all-inclusive definition in the original Senate bill which the Congress rejected
this Court restores.
A final word. We must not be unmindful that the Committees on Interstate Commerce out of which issued this
legislation have a continuity of membership which makes
them well versed in the problem before us: namely, how
much of the constitutional power possessed by Congress
for the control of utility services should in fact be committed to the Interstate Commerce Commission. (The
Chairmen of the Senate and House Committees on Interstate Commerce, who had charge of the bills that became
the Transportation Act of 1940, have been members of
these Committees for twenty and twenty-three years respectively.) Particularly therefore when dealing with
legislation coming from these Committees and in matters involving displacement of state by federal authority,
we ought not to assume that Congress did not attach significance to what it said and meant to convey that which
skilled language withheld. It is more respectful of Congress to attribute to it care instead of casualness. It is

SMITH v. ALLWRIGHT.
634

649

Syllabus.

certainly more consonant with judicial tradition and more
conducive to legislative responsibility for courts to act
on that belief.
I am therefore compelled to conclude that the Commission was not given power to regulate transportation by
Cornell from one port in New York to another port in
the same State.
IMI. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this dissent.

SMITH v. ALLWRIGHT, ELECTION JUDGE,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued November 10, 12, 1943. Reargued January 12,
1944.-Decided April 3, 1944.

1. The right of a citizen of the United States to vote for the nomination of candidates for the United States Senate and House of
Representatives in a primary which is an integral part of the
elective process is a right secured by the Federal Constitution; and
this right of the citizen may not be abridged by the State on
account of his race or color. P. 661.
2. Whether the exclusion of citizens from voting on account of their
race or color has been effected by action of the State-rather than
of individuals or of a political party-is a question upon which the
decision of the courts of the State is not binding on the federal
courts, but which the latter must determine for themselves
P. 662.
3. Upon examination of the statutes of Texas regulating primaries,
held that the exclusion of Negroes from voting in a Democratic
primary to select nominees for a general election-although by
resolution of a state convention of the party its membership was
limited to white citizens-was State action in violation of the
Fifteenth Amendment. Grovey v. Townsend, 295 U. S. 45, over-

ruled. Pp. 663, 666.
When, as here, primaries become a part of the machinery for
choosing officials, state and federal, the same tests to determine

