ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.

233

Syllabus.

ANDERSON NATIONAL BANK

ET AL.

v. LUCKETT,

COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 154. Argued February 2, 1944.-Decided February 28, 1944.
A statute of Kentucky sets up a comprehensive scheme for the administration of abandoned bank deposits. Upon a report by the
bank and notice to the depositor, and with an opportunity for either
to be heard, the State takes into its protective custody bank accounts
which, having been inactive for at least ten years if demand accounts or for at least twenty-five years if non-demand, the statute
declares to be presumptively abandoned. The bank is relieved of
its liability to the depositor, who receives instead a claim against
the State, enforcible at any time until the deposit is judicially found
to be abandoned and for five years thereafter. Refusal by the
designated state officer to make payment is reviewable by the state
courts. In an action by a national bank to enjoin the enforcement
of the statute, held:
1. In requiring payment of the deposit accounts to the State on
the prescribed notice, without recourse to judicial proceedings or
any court order or judgment, the statute does not deprive the
depositor or the bank of property without due process of law.
Pp. 240, 247.
(a) Apart from questions which may arise under the national
banking laws in the case of national banks, a State, by a procedure
satisfying constitutional requirements, may compel surrender to it
of deposit balances, when there is substantial ground for belief
that they have been abandoned or forgotten, especially where the
State acquires them subject to all lawful demands of depositors.
P. 240.
(b) The statutory rebuttable presumption of abandonment of
demand deposits after inactivity of ten years, and of non-demand
deposits after inactivity of twenty-five years, is sustained. P. 241.
(c) Subject to the requirements of procedural due process, the

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

depositors, prior to a judicial decree of actual abandonment, will
not be deprived of their property by the surrender of their presumptively abandoned bank accounts into the custody of the
State. P. 241.
(d) The requirement that a depositor without actual notice of
a proceeding for the judicial determination of abandonment must
make claim within five years after the decree, does not infringe constitutional rights. P. 241.
(e) Notice to the depositors of the statutory proceedings, by
the sheriff's posting on the courthouse door or bulletin board, for a
period of six weeks, a copy of the bank's report of deposits presumed abandoned, in conjunction with the notice provided by the
statute itself and by the taking of possession of the bank balances by
the State, is sufficient notice to the depositors to satisfy the requirements of due process. P. 243.
(f) The fundamental requirement of due process is an opportunity to be heard upon such notice and proceedings as are adequate
to safeguard the right for which the constitutional protection is invoked. P. 246.
(g) It is not an indispensable requirement of due process that
every procedure affecting the ownership or disposition of property
be exclusively by judicial proceeding. Statutory proceedings affecting property rights, which, by later resort to the courts, secure to
adverse parties an opportunity to be heard, suitable to the occasion,
do not deny due process. P. 246.
(h) The mere fact that the State or its authorities acquire possession or control of property as a preliminary step to the judicial
determination of asserted rights in the property is not a denial of
due process. P. 247.
2. The statute does not infringe the national banking laws and
does not unconstitutionally interfere with a national bank as an
instrumentality of the federal government. Pp. 247, 252.
(a) The statute does not discriminate against national banks in
directing payment to the State, pursuant to the statute, of presumptively abandoned accounts by state and national banks. P. 247.
(b) The statute is not in conflict with any provision of the
national banking laws. P. 247.

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

235

Counsel for Parties.

(c) First National Bank v. California, 262 U. S. 366, distinguished. P. 250.
3. As an appropriate incident to the exercise of its power to require the surrender to it of presumptively abandoned accounts in
national as well as state banks, the State may require the banks
to file reports of inactive accounts. P. 252.
294 Ky. 674, 172 S.W. 2d 575, affirmed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment which, upon

a remand (293 Ky. 735, 170 S. W. 2d 350), dismissed the
bill in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a state statute.
Messrs. Win. Marshall Bullitt and Charles W. Milner
(Mr. Leo T. Wolford was with the latter on the brief) for
appellants.
Mr. Earl S. Wilson, Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, with whom Messrs. M. B. Holifield and A. E. Funk,
Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for
appellees.
By special leave of Court, Mr. ClarenceA. Linn, Deputy
Attorney General, with whom Mr. Robert W. Kenny, Attorney General, was on the brief, for the State of California, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
Messrs.John F. Anderson and Trevor V. Roberts, on behalf of the Comptroller of the Currency of the United
States; Messrs. Herbert W. Clark,Roland C. Foerster,and
Edward Hohfeld, on behalf of the California Bankers Association; and Messrs. J. B. Faegre and Hayner N. Larson,
on behalf of the Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis et al., filed briefs, as amici curiae, urging reversal.
Messrs. J. A. A. Burnquist,Attorney General, and Win. C.
Green, Assistant Attorney General, on behalf of the State

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

of Minnesota (Mr. John E. Martin, Attorney General,
joining with them on behalf of the State of Wisconsin),
and Mr. Herbert J. Rushton, Attorney General, on behalf
of the State of Michigan, fried briefs, as amici curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE ST Nm delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Under Kentucky Revised Statutes of 1942, ch. 393,
§§ 393.060 et seq., every bank or trust company in the
state is required to turn over to the state, deposits which
have remained inactive and unclaimed for specified
periods. The questions for decision are: (1) whether the
statute under which the state purports to acquire the right
to demand custody of the deposits, affords due process
of law, even though the depositors may not receive personal notice of the pending transfer and there may be no
prior judicial proceedings, and (2) whether the statute, as
applied to deposits in a national bank, conflicts with the
national banking laws or is an unconstitutional interference by the state with appellant's operations as a banking
instrumentality of the United States.
So far as here relevant, the provisions of the statute may
be summarily stated as follows. Demand deposits held
by a bank, with accrued interest, are presumed abandoned
unless the owner has, within ten years preceding the date
for making the report required by § 393.110, negotiated in
writing with the bank, or been credited with interest on
his passbook at his request, or had a transaction noted
upon the books of the bank, or increased or decreased the
amount of his deposit (§ 393.060). Non-demand deposits, with accrued interest, are likewise presumed abandoned, unless the owner, within the twenty-five years
preceding the report, has taken one or more of such
enumerated actions (§ 393.070).

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

237

Opinion of the Court.

The holder of property presumed abandoned, including
any national bank, is required to file with the state Department of Revenue, annually before September 1, a
report in duplicate of such property as of the preceding
July 1; the copy is sent to the sheriff of the county in which
the property is located, and he is under the statutory duty
of posting the copy on the court house door or bulletin
board, before the following October 1 (§ 393.110 (1)).
The holder is required to turn over to the Department of
Revenue before November 15, the property so reported,
unless the holder or owner certifies facts to rebut the presumption of abandonment, or unless the statute of limitations has run as between the owner and the holder. In
neither such case need the holder turn over the property
except upon an order of court. If a claimant has filed
an action with respect to any such property, the holder
is required to notify the Department of the pendency of
the action but is not required to turn over the property
during its pendency. (§ 393.110 (2).) In any case the
holder of such property is entitled to a judicial determination of his rights, under § 393.160, providing for appeals
from the decisions of the Commissioner of Revenue, or
under § 393.230, providing for an equitable action by the
Commissioner to compel the surrender of such property
(§393.110 (3)).
A person refusing to turn over property under this statute is subject to a penalty of 10% of its amount, but not to
exceed $500; he is subject to no penalty, however, if he
posts a compliance bond (§ 393.290). Any person who
transfers property to the state under this statute is relieved of liability to the owner, and the state is required to
reimburse the holder for any such liability (§ 393.130).
The Commissioner may institute judicial proceedings to
establish conclusively that property, in his hands be-

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

cause presumed abandoned, is actually abandoned, or
that the owner of the property has died and that there is
no person entitled to it (§ 393.230 (2)). In such an action
the procedure is governed by the Kentucky Civil Code
of Practice (§ 393.240 (2)).
A claim to property surrendered to the state may be
made at any time, unless the property has been judicially
determined, under § 393.230, to have been actually abandoned, in which case any claim to the property by a person
not actually served with notice and who did not appear
and whose claim was not considered during the proceeding, must be made within five years of the judicial determination (§ 393.140 (1) and (2); and see Anderson
NationalBank v. Reeves, 293 Ky. 735, 738, 741, 170 S. W.
2d 350). The claimant is required to make publication of
his claim in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county, or if there is none, he is required to post his claim
at the court house door and at three other conspicuous
places in the county (§ 393.140 (3)). The Commissioner
of Revenue is directed to consider and determine the validity of any claim and any defense; if he approves the claim,
he must authorize its payment (§ 393.150). Judicial review of his determination in the appropriate state courts
is provided (§ 393.160).
The statute thus sets up a comprehensive scheme for the
administration of abandoned bank deposits. Upon a report by the bank and notice to the depositors and with an
opportunity to be heard, if either wish it, the state takes
into its protective custody bank accounts which, having
been inactive for at least ten years if demand accounts, or
at least twenty-five years if non-demand, the statute declares to be presumptively abandoned. The bank is relieved of its liability to the depositors, who receive instead
a claim against the state, enforcible at any time until the
deposits are judicially found to be abandoned in fact and

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

239

Opinion of the Court.

for five years thereafter. Refusal by the designated state
officer to make payment is reviewable by the state courts.
Appellant, a national banking association organized under the laws of the United States, brought the present suit
in the Circuit Court of Kentucky for Franklin County.
The bill of complaint, filed by appellant on behalf of itself
and all others similarly situated, sought to enjoin appellees,
the state Commissioner of Revenue and other state officers,
from enforcing the statute here in question. The Circuit
Court held invalid so much of the challenged statute as
requires the payment of deposits to the state merely on the
prescribed notice, and without the order or judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction. It gave judgment perpetually enjoining appellees from enforcing such parts of
the statute. The Kentucky Court of Appeals sustained
the Act in its entirety, holding that it affords due process,
and that it neither infringes the national banking laws nor
is a prohibited interference with a banking instrumentality
of the United States. It accordingly reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court, and instructed it to deny an injunction. 293 Ky. 735. On remand, the Circuit Court entered its judgment, dismissing the bill. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 294 Ky. 674, 172 S. W. 2d 575. The case
comes here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code,

28 U. S. C. § 344 (a).
Appellant contends here: (1) that the statute, in requiring payment of the deposit accounts to the state on
the prescribed notice, without recourse to judicial proceedings or any court order or judgment, deprives the
depositors and appellant of property without due process of law, and (2) that such withdrawal of accounts
from a national bank infringes the national banking laws,
particularly R. S. § 5136, 12 U. S. C. § 24, which authorize
national banks to accept deposits and to do a banking business, and is an unconstitutional interference with the

240

OCTOBER TERI, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

federally authorized function of national banks as instrumentalities of the Federal Government.
I.
Appellant argues that the statute deprives both the
bank and the depositors of their property rights in the
bank accounts, and contends that the procedure by which
the state acquires its asserted right to demand payment
of the accounts is so lacking in notice to depositors and
in an opportunity for them to be heard as to deny the
state the right to assert the depositors' claims and afford
to the bank no protection if it responds to the state's demand for payment of the accounts.
While the Kentucky statute is entitled "Escheats," its
provisions, so far as applicable to bank deposits, are concerned only with personal property deemed abandoned.
At common law, abandoned personal property was not
the subject of escheat, but was subject only to the right
of appropriation by the sovereign as bona vacantia. See
7 Holdsworth, A History of English Law (2d ed.) 495-496.
Like rights of appropriation, except so far as limited by
state law and the Fourteenth Amendment, exist in the
several states of the United States. Hamilton v. Brown,
161 U. S. 256; Christianson v. King County, 239 U. S.
356; Security Bank v. California,263 U. S. 282; United
States v. Klein, 303 U. S. 276.
Apart from questions which may arise under the national banking laws in the case of national banks, it is no
longer open to doubt that a state, by a procedure satisfying constitutional requirements, may compel surrender
to it of deposit balances, when there is substantial ground
for belief that they have been abandoned or forgotten,
Security Bank v. California, supra, certainly when the
state acquires them subject to all lawful demands of the
depositors. Provident Savings Institution v. Malone,
221 U. S. 660.

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

241

Opinion of the Court.

The deposits are debtor obligations of the bank, incurred and to be performed in the state where the bank is
located, and hence are subject to the state's dominion. See
Security Bank v. California,supra, 285 and cases cited;
Irving Trust Co. v. Day, 314 U. S. 556, 562. And it is
within the constitutional power of the state to protect the
interests of depositors from the risks which attend long
neglected accounts, by taking them into custody when
they have been inactive so long as to be presumptively
abandoned, see Provident Savings Institution v. Malone,
supra, 664, just as it may provide for the administration
of the property of a missing person. Cunnius v. Reading School District, 198 U. S. 458; Blinn v. Nelson, 222
U.S. I.
With respect to the statutory rebuttable presumption
of abandonment of demand deposits after inactivity of
ten years and of non-demand deposits after inactivity of
twenty-five years, we are unable to say that the legislative
determination is without support in experience. We have
sustained like statutory presumptions that shorter periods
of inactivity furnish the basis for state administration
of unasserted claims or demands. See Security Bank v.
California, supra; Cunnius v. Reading School District,
supra; Blinn v. Nelson, supra; cf. Provident Savings
Institutionv. Malone, supra.
In the present posture of the case we conclude, subject
to the requirements of procedural due process, that prior
to a judicial decree of actual abandonment, the depositors
will not be deprived of their property by the surrender
of their bank accounts to the state. We need not decide
whether the procedure for determining abandonment in
fact conforms to due process, for appellant has not attacked this procedure here and no such proceeding is
before us. Prior to such a decree the present statute
merely compels the summary substitution of the state
for the bank, as the debtor of the depositors. It deprives

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

the depositors of none of their rights as creditors, preserving their right to demand from the state payment
of the deposits, and their right to resort to the courts if
payment is refused. True, payment over of the deposits
to the state may be the precursor of a decree of abandonment and the shortening of the period within which a
claimant may demand payment of his deposit. But, if
the notice to depositors is adequate, we cannot say that
the period of five years allowed for that purpose after
the decree, is an infringement of constitutional rights.
Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628, 632-633, and cases cited;
United States v. Morena,245 U. S. 392, 397.
Appellant and the Comptroller of the Currency, as
amicus curiae, point to the formalities with which the depositors must comply before they will be able to recover
their deposits, and argue that the state may be less solvent or less willing to pay than the bank. In the absence
of some persuasive showing, which is lacking here, that
these formalities will be more onerous than those which
would or could be properly required by the bank, or that
the state will in fact be less able or less willing to pay, it
cannot be assumed that the mere substitution of the state
as the debtor will deprive the depositors of their property, or impose on them an unconstitutional burden. See
Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U. S. 362, 366-368; cf. Blinn v.
Nelson, supra,7; Corn Exchange Bank v. Coler, 280 U. S.
218, 223. In the absence of a showing of injury, actual or
threatened, there can be no constitutional argument. In
re 620 ChurchSt. Corp., 299 U. S. 24,27, and cases cited.
Since the bank is a debtor to its depositors, it can interpose no due process or contract clause objection to payment of the claimed deposits to the state, if the state is
lawfully entitled to demand payment, for in that case
payment of the debt to the state, under the statute, relieves the bank of its liability to the depositors. Security
Bank v. California,supra, 285, 286. But if the statute

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

243

Opinion of the Court.

is deficient in its provisions for notice and opportunity
for hearing so that the depositors would not be bound
by any proceedings taken under it, the bank would be
entitled to raise the question whether its obligation to the
depositors would be discharged by payment of the deposits to the state. Hence our inquiry must be directed
to the question whether the procedure by which the state
undertakes to acquire the depositors' right to demand
payment of the deposits was upon adequate notice to
them and opportunity for them to be heard.
As we have said, the statute provides for notice to the
depositors by requiring the sheriff to post on the court
house door or bulletin board a copy of the bank's report
of deposits presumed abandoned. We think that this,
in conjunction with the notice provided by the statute itself and by the taking of possession of the bank balances
by the state, is sufficient notice to the depositors to satisfy all requirements of due process.
The statute itself is notice to all depositors of banks
within the state, of the conditions on which the balances
of inactive accounts will be deemed presumptively abandoned, and their surrender to the state compelled. All
persons having property located within a state and subject to its dominion must take note of its statutes affecting the control or disposition of such property and of the
procedure which they set up for those purposes. Reetz
v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 509; North Laramie Land Co.
v. Hoffman, 26S U. S. 276, 283. Proceedings for the assessment of taxes, the condemnation of land, the establishment of highways and public improvements affecting
land owners, are familiar examples. Huling v. Kaw Valley Co., 130 U. S. 559, 563-564; Ballard v. Hunter, 204
U. S. 241, 254-257, 262.
The report of the bank, required to be posted on the
court house door or bulletin board, lists the abandoned
accounts as defined by the statute and thus gives notice

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

to the owners of all those accounts which, because of their
inactivity for the periods and in the ways specified by the
statute, are deemed abandoned and required to be paid
to the state. This notice, when read in the light of the
knowledge of the statute, with which all persons having
such bank accounts within the state are chargeable, is
sufficient to advise that the listed accounts are deemed
presumptively abandoned and will at the end of six weeks
from the date of filing be paid over to the state, and that
both before and after that event the depositors will be
afforded opportunity to present their claims and to have
them judicially determined, if rejected.
Posting on the court house door as a method of giving
notice of proceedings affecting property within the
county, is an ancient one and is time-honored in Kentucky. The Act of the Kentucky legislature of December
19, 1796, provided in § 2 for the use of this method of
warning absent defendants in equity proceedings that a
decree would be entered against them, if they did not
appear. This means of giving notice was employed in the
escheat statutes of Kentucky at least as early as 1852.
Kentucky Revised Statutes of 1852, p. 308, c. 34, Art. IV,
§ 3 (1). The fact that a procedure is so old as to have
become customary and well known in the community is of
great weight in determining whether it conforms to due
process, for "Not lightly vacated is the verdict of quiescent years." Coler v. Corn Exchange Bank, 250 N. Y.
136, 141, 164 N. E. 882, aff'd, sub nom. Corn Exchange
Bank v. Coler, supra. To that effect, see Otis Co. v. Ludlow Mfg. Co., 201 U. S. 140, 154; Ownbey v. Morgan,256
U. S. 94, 108-109, 112; Jackman v. Rosenbaum Co., 260
U. S. 22, 31; Corn Exchange Bank v. Coler, supra, 222223; Snyder v. Massachusetts,291 U. S. 97, 110-111.
We cannot say that the posting of a notice on the door
of the court house in a Kentucky county is a less efficacious
method of giving notice to depositors in banks of the

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

245

Opinion of the Court.

county than publication in a local newspaper, or that in the
circumstances of this case it is an inadequate means of
giving notice of the summary taking into custody of the
designated bank accounts by the state. This is the more
so because in this case the notice is the immediate prelude
to and accompanies the compulsory surrender of the bank
balances to the state, unless the depositors in the meantime
intervene as claimants. The statutory procedure, so far
as it affects depositors, is in the nature of a proceeding in
rem, in the course of which property, against which a claim
is asserted, is seized or sequestered, and held subject to the
appearance and presentation of claims by all those who assert an adverse interest in it. In all such proceedings the
seizure of the property is in itself a form of notice of the
claim asserted, to those who may claim an interest in the
property. See Corn ExchangeBank v. Coler, supra,holding constitutional a statute providing for no notice to the
owner of a bank deposit other than its seizure.
Security Bank v. California,supra, was a proceeding to
compel the bank to pay over to the state inactive bank accounts as the first step in their sequestration and, if unclaimed, their possible ultimate escheat. The Court held,
263 U. S. at 289-290, that publication of notice of the proceeding in a newspaper at the state capital was sufficient
notice to absent depositors to meet due process requirements. It supported this conclusion by reference to the
proceeding against the bank by which it was required to
pay over the deposits to the state "as in personam so far as
concerns the bank; as quasi in rem so far as concerns the
depositors," 263 U. S. at p. 287. Since the service of process on the bank personally was equivalent to a seizure of
the accounts, it was deemed to supplement the publication
as an independent notice, in itself, to the depositors of the
seizure and of their opportunity given by the statute to
appear and assert their claims against the state.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Like procedure, begun by the seizure or acquisition of
control of a res, including, in some cases, choses in actions,
has been sustained as affording adequate notice to absent
claimants in escheat proceedings, Hamilton v. Brown, supra; Christiansonv. King County, supra, 373; in garnishment proceedings, Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215, 223; in
proceedings for the administration of a debt due an absentee, Cunnius v. Reading School District, supra;in proceedings begun by attachment, Cooper v. Reynolds, 10
Wall. 308; and in admiralty proceedings, The Mary, 9
Cranch 126, 144.
We cannot say, nor does appellant seriously urge, that
the length of notice by posting, six weeks, is inadequate.
Three weeks notice by publication of the condemnation
of the land for a public highway was held sufficient by this
Court in North Laramie Land Co. v. Hoffman, supra; and
thirty days was deemed sufficient in a like proceeding in
Huling v. Kaw Valley Co., supra.
What is due process in a procedure affecting property
interests must be determined by taking into account the
purposes of the procedure and its effect upon the rights
asserted and all other circumstances which may render the
proceeding appropriate to the nature of the case. Davidson v. New Orleans,96 U. S. 97, 107-108; Ballardv. Hunter,
supra, 255; North Laramie Land Co. v. Hoffman, supra,
282-283; Dohany v. Rogers, supra, 369, and cases cited.
The fundamental requirement of due process is an opportunity to be heard upon such notice and proceedings as are
adequate to safeguard the right for which the constitutional
protection is invoked. If that is preserved, the demands
of due process are fulfilled. Measured by this standard,
we cannot say that the present notice is insufficient.
For this reason also it is not an indispensable requirement of due process that every procedure affecting the
ownership or disposition of property be exclusively by
judicial proceeding. Statutory proceedings affecting

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.

247

Opinion of the Court.

233

property rights, which, by later resort to the courts, secure
to adverse parties an opportunity to be heard, suitable to
the occasion, do not deny due process. Familiar examples
are the decisions and orders of administrative agencies
which determine rights subject to a subsequent judicial review. And such is obviously the case here, where there is
full opportunity to the depositors to be heard by the State
Commissioner, whose decision is subject to court review.
It is difficult to see what right here asserted would have
been better preserved by a court procedure whose end was
the compulsory surrender of the deposit balances by the
bank to the state, which takes subject to the claims of the
depositors.
The mere fact that the state or its authorities acquire
possession or control of property as a preliminary step to
the judicial determination of asserted rights in the property is not a denial of due process. Samuels v. McCurdy,
267 U. S. 188, 200; North Laramie Land Co. v. Hoffman,
supra; Corn Exchange Bank v. Coler, supra; Phillips v.
Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 593-601, and cases cited.
We conclude that the procedural provisions of the Kentucky statute are adequate to meet all constitutional requirements, and that it does not deprive appellant or its
depositors of property without due process of law.
II.
We come now to appellant's second contention, that the
Kentucky statute infringes the national banking laws
and unconstitutionally interferes with appellant as an instrumentality of the federal government. But the statute
does not discriminate against national banks, cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, by directing payment to
the state by state and national banks alike, of presumptively abandoned accounts. Nor do we find any word
in the national banking laws which expressly or by implication conflicts with the provisions of the Kentucky
576281--44----20

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

statutes. Cf. Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S.
275.
This Court has often pointed out that national banks
are subject to state laws, unless those laws infringe the
national banking laws or impose an undue burden on the
performance of the banks' functions. Waite v. Dowley,
94 U. S. 527, 533; First National Bank v. Missouri, 263
U. S. 640, 656; Lewis v. Fidelity Co., 292 U. S. 559, 566;
Jennings v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 294 U. S. 216,
219. Thus the mere fact that the depositor's account is
in a national bank does not render it immune to attachment by the creditors of the depositor, as authorized by
state law. Compare Earle v. Pennsylvania,178 U. S. 449,
with Van Reed v. People'sNationalBank, 198 U. S. 554.
As we have seen, a bank account is a chose in action of
the depositor against the bank, which the latter is obligated to pay in accordance with the terms of the deposit.
It is a part of the mass of property within the state whose
transfer and devolution is subject to state control. Security Bank v. California,supra, 285, 286, and cases cited;
Irving Trust Co. v. Day, supra, 562. It has never been
suggested that non-discriminatory laws of this type are
so burdensome as to be inapplicable to the accounts of
depositors in national banks.
The statute here attacked does not purport to do more
than does any other regulation of the devolution of bank
accounts of missing persons, a function which is, as we
have seen, within the competence of the state. Under
the statute the state merely acquires the right to demand
payment of the accounts in the place of the depositors.
Upon payment of the deposits to the state, the bank's
obligation is discharged. Something more than this is
required to render the statute obnoxious to the federal
banking laws. For an inseparable incident of a national
bank's privilege of receiving deposits is its obligation to
pay them to the persons entitled to demand payment ac-

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

249

Opinion of the Court.

cording to the law of the state where it does business. A
demand for payment of an account by one entitled to
make the demand does not infringe or interfere with any
authorized function of the bank. In fact, inability to
comply with such demands is made a basis in the national
banking laws for closing the doors of the bank and winding
up its affairs.
Appellant argues that if the present act is sustained, it
will open the door to the exertion of unlimited state discretionary power over the deposits in national banks, and
that the act imposes a burden on appellants such as was
held to be inadmissible in First National Bank v. California, 262 U. S. 366, which was followed in National City
Bank v. Philippine Islands, 302 U. S. 651. As we have
seen, the only power sought to be exerted by the state
over the depositors' accounts is the assertion of its lawfully acquired right to collect them, in accordance with
the obligation, which was both assumed by appellant and
is to be performed in conformity with the banking laws
of the United States. In this respect the state's power to
make such a demand cannot extend beyond its power
under state law and the Federal Constitution to acquire
control of deposit accounts from their owners. So long
as it is thus limited, and the power is exercised only to
demand payment of the accounts in the same way and
to the same extent that the depositors could, we can perceive no danger of unlimited control by the state over the
operations of national banking institutions. We need not
decide whether, within the limit, the state's power over
deposits in national banks is as simple as its like power
over deposits in state banks. Compare First National
Bank v. California,supra,with Security Bank v. California, supra. We are concerned only with the question
whether the particular power here asserted is a forbidden
encroachment upon the privileges of a national bank.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

The decision of this Court in First National Bank v.
California,supra,did not rest on any want of power of a
state to demand of a national bank, payment of deposits
which the state was lawfully entitled to receive. Decision
there turned rather on the effect of the state statute in
altering the contracts of deposit in a manner considered
so unusual and so harsh in its application to depositors
as to deter them from placing or keeping their funds in
national banks. In that case the state brought a statutory proceeding in its courts to compel a national bank
to pay over to it an inactive deposit account. The statute
required "escheat to the state" of all balances in deposit
accounts remaining unclaimed and inactive for more than
twenty years, where neither the depositor nor any claimant had filed any notice with the bank showing his present
address. It authorized suit in behalf of the state to
recover such amounts and directed that judgment should
be given for the state "if it be determined that the moneys
deposited in any defendant bank or banks are unclaimed,"
for the period and in the manner specified by the statute.
It will be noted that the statute required no proof that
the forfeited accounts had been in fact abandoned, or
that their owners were unknown or had died without
heirs or surviving kin. Upon mere proof of dormancy for
the prescribed period, the statute declared the accounts to
be escheated to the state.
After pointing out that the state Supreme Court, in
sustaining the judgment in the state's favor, had declined,
as unnecessary to its decision, to express an opinion
whether the absent depositors could reclaim their forfeited deposits from the state, this Court declared that the
statute "attempts to qualify in an unusual way agreements between national banks and their customers long
understood to arise when the former receive deposits
under their plainly granted powers." 262 U. S. at p. 370.

ANDERSON NAT. BANK v. LUCKETT.
233

251

Opinion of the Court.

And since it was thought that such alterations might be
made by that and other states "and, instead of twenty
years, varying limitations may be prescribed-three years
perhaps, or five, or ten, or fifteen," the Court declared
that the effect on the national banking system would be
incompatible with the statutory purposes of establishing
a system of national banks acting as federal instrumentalities. That effect it specifically described as follows
(p. 370): "The depositors of a national bank often live in
many different States and countries; and certainly it
would not be an immaterial thing if the deposits of all
were subject to seizure by the State where the bank happened to be located. The success of almost all commercial
banks depends upon their ability to obtain loans from
depositors, and these might well hesitate to subject their
funds to possible confiscation."
The unusual alteration of depositors' accounts to which
the Court referred was plainly the statutory declaration of
escheat of depositors' accounts merely because of their dormancy for the specified period, without any determination
of abandonment in fact. This it treated as in effect "confiscation" of depositors' accounts, operating as an effective
deterrent to depositors' placing their funds in national
banks doing business within the state.
We have no occasion to reconsider this decision, as appellees urge, for the grounds assigned for it are wholly
wanting here. While the seizure and escheat or forfeiture
for mere dormancy of a national bank account are unusual,
the escheat or appropriation by the state of property in
fact abandoned or without an owner is, as we have seen, as
old as the common law itself. Here there is no escheat or
forfeiture by reason of dormancy. Dormancy without
more is made the statutory ground for the state's taking
inactive bank accounts into its custody, the state assuming
the bank's obligation to the depositors. And the deposits

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S

need not be surrendered, if the depositors or the bank
make it appear that abandonment has not occurred. This
is not confiscation or even an attempted deprivation of
property. Escheat or forfeiture to the state may follow,
but only on proof of abandonment in fact. We cannot say
that the protective custody of long inactive bank accounts,
for which the Kentucky statute provides, and which in
many circumstances may operate for the benefit and
security of depositors, see ProvidentSavings Institutionv.
Malone, supra, 664, will deter them from placing their
funds in national banks in that state. It cannot be said
that it would have that effect, more than would the tax
laws, the attachment laws, or the laws for the administration of estates of decedents or of missing or unknown persons, which a state may maintain and apply to depositors
in national banks.
Nor are we able to discern any greater or different effect
so far as prospective depositors in national banks are concerned, from the application of the ancient law of escheat
or forfeiture of goods as bona vacantia, to bank accounts
found to be without an owner, or to have been in fact
abandoned by their owners. Compare United States v.
Klein, supra. True, under the Kentucky statute, as in the
case of an attachment or the administration of the estate of
a deceased depositor, a change in the dominion over the accounts will ensue, to which the bank must respond by payment of them on lawful demand. But this, as we have
said, is nothing more than performance of a duty by the
bank imposed by the federal banking laws, and not a denial
of its privileges as a federal instrumentality. In all this
we can perceive no denial of constitutional right and no unlawful encroachment on the rights and privileges of
national banks.
Since Kentucky may enforce its statute requiring the
surrender to it of presumptively abandoned accounts in
national as well as state banks, it may, as an appropriate

FLOURNOY v. WIENER.
233

253

Statement of the Case.

incident to this exercise of authority, require the banks to
file reports of inactive accounts, as the statute directs.
Waite v. Dowley, supra; Colorado Bank v. Bedford, 310
U. S. 41, 53.
Affirmed.

FLOURNOY, SHERIFF AND EX-OFFICIO TAX
COLLECTOR, v. WIENER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 252. Argued February 4, 7, 1944-Decided February 28, 1944.
1. Upon review of a decision of a state court, either on appeal or
on certiorari, this Court will not pass upon or consider federal questions not assigned as error or designated in the points to be relied
upon, even though they were properly presented to and passed upon
by the state court. P. 259.
2. The state court having rested its decision in this case upon (1) the
invalidity of the federal Act under the Fifth Amendment and (2)
the invalidity of the state Act under the Fourteenth Amendment,
either of which grounds was adequate to support the judgment; and
the appellant having assigned as error only the Fifth Amendment
question; and the Fourteenth Amendment question not having been
briefed or argued by either party in this Court,--held that, upon the
record, this Court was without jurisdiction to decide either question,
and the cause must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Pp. 258,
261.
3. Appellant having assigned as error the decision of the state court
holding the federal Act invalid, the case is properly an appeal,
and appellant could have included in his assignments of error any
other denial of federal right whether or not capable in itself of being
brought here by appeal; or he could have filed a petition for writ of
certiorari in addition to his appeal. But since he failed to raise or
brief in this Court any question as to the validity of the state
statute under the Fourteenth Amendment, this Court has no
jurisdiction of the case either on certiorari or on appeal, and there
is no occasion for the application of Jud. Code § 237 (c). P. 263.
203 La. 649, 14 So. 2d 475, appeal dismissed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment which held
unconstitutional, as applied to the appellees, a state inheritance tax statute.

