678

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U. S.

of Appeals be vacated, and the judgment of the Dis-

trict Court restored, as though respondent had taken no
appeal.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and
the cause will be remanded to the District Court, where
petitioner will be free to take such proceedings for the enforcement of the judgment of the District Court, as he may
deem advisable, and as may be proper in the circumstances
of the case. Any order of the District Court will, of course,
be subject to appropriate appellate review.
So ordered.
MEDO PHOTO SUPPLY CORP. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 265. Argued March 2, 1944.-Decided April 10, 1944.

Petitioner recognized a labor union as the bargaining representative
of its employees. At their request and upon their statement that
they were dissatisfied with the union and would abandon it if
their wages were increased, petitioner negotiated with them
without the intervention of the union, granted the requested increase in wages, and thereafter refused to recognize or bargain
with the union. Held that the Labor Board properly determined
that petitioner's negotiations with its employees, its payment of increased wages, and its refusal to bargain with the union constituted
unfair labor practices in violation of §§ 8 (1) and (5) of the
National Labor Relations Act; and that this determination supported its order directing the cessation of those practices. P. 679.
1. The negotiations by petitioner with any other than the union,
the designated representative of the employees, was an unfair
labor practice. P. 683.
Bargaining carried on by the employer directly with the employees, whether a minority or a majority, who have not revoked
their designation of a bargaining agent, would be subversive of the
mode of collective bargaining which the statute has ordained.
P. 684.

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

Opinion of the Court.

2. It was likewise an unfair labor practice for petitioner,
though in response to the proposal of its employees, to grant wage
increases inducing them to leave the union. P. 685.
3. The defection of union members, which petitioner had induced by unfair labor practices, even though the result was that
the union no longer had the support of a majority, could not
justify petitioner's refusal to bargain with the union. P. 687.
135 F. 2d 279, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 723, to review a decree granting
enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations
Board, 43 N. L. R. B. 989.

Mr. William E. Friedman, with whom Mr. Walter N.
Seligsberg was on the brief, for petitioner.
Miss Ruth Weyand, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy
and Messrs. Alvin J. Rockwell and David Findling were
on the brief, for respondent.
MIR. CHIF

JusTicE SToNE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner recognized a labor union as the bargaining
representative of its employees. At their request and
upon their statement that they were dissatisfied with the
union and would abandon it if their wages were increased,
petitioner negotiated with them without the intervention
of the union, granted the requested increases in wages and
thereafter refused to recognize or bargain with the union.
The only questions raised by the petition for certiorari
are whether in the circumstances, petitioner's negotiations
with its employees, its payment of increased wages, and
its refusal to bargain with the union constituted unfair
labor practices in violation of §§ 8 (1) and (5) of the
National Labor Relations Act, 29 U. S. C. §§ 158 (1) and
(5).
Upon complaint of the National Labor Relations Board
charging petitioner with unfair labor practices, issued pur576281-44----47

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

suant to § 10 of the Act, 29 U. S. C. § 160, the Board found
that petitioner had violated §§ 8 (1) and (5) of the Act by
interfering with its employees in the exercise of their rights
to bargain collectively, guaranteed by § 7 of the Act, 29
U. S. C. § 157, and by refusing to bargain with a union
representing its employees. The Board entered the usual
order directing petitioner to cease the unfair labor practices so found, and requiring it to bargain with the union.
43 N. L. R. B. 989. On the Board's petition to enforce
its order, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overruled petitioner's contentions that the union, at the time
of the alleged unfair labor practices, no longer represented
petitioner's employees for purposes of collective bargaining and directed compliance with the order. 135 F. 2d
279. We granted certiorari, 320 U. S. 723, as the case involves questions of importance in the administration of
the National Labor Relations Act.
The Board made findings supported by evidence that
after eighteen of the twenty-six employees in petitioner's
shipping and receiving department, constituting an appropriate bargaining unit, had designated the union as their
bargaining agent, petitioner, on June 4th and 5th, 1941,
recognized it as the exclusive bargaining representative of
the employees. The union having proposed a contract
providing for an increase of wages for the employees, petitioner agreed to meet the union representatives on June 9,
1941 in order to begin collective bargaining.
Two days before that date, twelve of the employees who
were members of the union, waited on petitioner's manager and stated that they and the six other members had
no desire to belong to the union if through their own efforts
they could obtain wage increases, a list of which they submitted. The manager, at that time, declined to discuss
the union, but stated that he would consider the request
for wage increases with petitioner's president on the latter's return to the office on June 9th, and asked the
employees to return on that day.

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

Opinion of the Court.

On June 9th, the manager, after a conference with the
president, met with a committee of four of the employees
who had conferred with him two days before. He advised
them that petitioner would grant substantially the requested wage increases. The committee then withdrew
to convey this message to the other employees, who thereupon agreed to accept the wage increases. The committee
returned to inform the manager of this and that the employees "felt that they did not need the union, and we
would rather stay out." Later in the day, the committee
notified the union representative that the employees no
longer desired the union to represent them. At a meeting
on the same day with the representatives of the union, at
which this committee was present, petitioner's attorney
stated that he understood that the union no longer represented a majority of the employees and he declined to
negotiate with it unless it were established by an election
that it did.
From this, and from evidence which it is unnecessary
to detail, the Board concluded, and we accept its findings,
that the employees had not revoked their designation of
the union as their bargaining agent before the wage increases were promised by petitioner's manager on June
9th; that the increases were induced by negotiations
begun with petitioner on June 7th and concluded on June
9th before they had repudiated the union; that petitioner's
determination to increase wages was "occasioned solely
by the employees' offer to withdraw from the union if the
raises were granted"; and that the employees' defection
from the union was induced by petitioner's conduct in
dealing directly with the employees.'
It has now long been settled that findings of the Board, as with
those of other administrative agencies, are conclusive upon reviewing
courts when supported by evidence, that the weighing of conflicting
evidence is for the Board and not for the courts, that the inferences
from the evidence are to be drawn by the Board and not by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

In sustaining the Board's order the Court of Appeals
assumed that as there had been no election or certification
of the union as their bargaining representative, the employees were free to revoke their designation of it and to
negotiate directly with the employer for an increase in
wages, without the intervention of the union. But it
thought that if such a proposal came from the employer,
it would be a forbidden interference with the collective
bargaining process and it concluded that, in view of the
difficulties of determining whether in fact such an offer,
ostensibly coming from the employees, was induced by the
employer, the Board could conclude that the mere acceptance by the employer of the employees' offer was an
unfair labor practice. A concurring judge thought that
the case was stripped of any intimation of employer control but that the Board's order should be sustained on the
ground that it was an unfair labor practice for the employer to bargain with the employees when their revocation of the union's authority was made conditional upon
the majority's agreement to abandon collective bargaining
altogether, even for an unspecified time.
We think it plain that the findings of the Board do not
admit of either of these dispositions of the case. While
the negotiations of petitioner with the employees resulted
in a wage increase and their abandonment of the union, the
negotiations were carried on by certain of the employees
purporting to act in behalf of and to represent a majority.
Nothing appears which would suggest, as the concurring
judge thought, that any of the employees during or as
courts, save only as questions of law are raised and that upon such
questions of law, the experienced judgment of the Board is entitled
to great weight. See Franks Bros. Co. v. Labor Board, post, p. 702;
Labor Board v. Southern Bell Co., 319 U. S. 50, 60, and cases cited;
Labor Board v. Nevada Copper Co., 316 U. S. 105, 106-107, and cases
cited; cf. Dobson v. Commissioner,320 U. S. 489, 501, and cases cited.

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

683

Opinion of the Court.

a result of the negotiations had by agreement or otherwise
foreclosed themselves from continuing such bargaining
through the same or any other representatives whom they
might choose. Nor in the circumstances disclosed by the
evidence and the Board's findings can we say that it was
of any significance whether, as the Court of Appeals
thought, the employees' offer to abandon the union
originated with them or was inspired by the employer.
For in either case, as will presently appear, we think that
the negotiations by petitioner for wage increases with any
one other than the union, the designated representative
of the employees, was an unfair labor practice. We think
that the Board's order should have been enforced for the
reasons stated by it.
The petition for certiorari does not challenge the Board's
findings that the union represented a majority of the employees in petitioner's shipping department, and that they
constituted a proper bargaining unit and that petitioner
had agreed to bargain with the union. The evidence
shows and the Board found that when the employees
opened their negotiations with petitioner's manager on
June 7th, they had not repudiated the union. On the
contrary they made it plain that their proposal for its
abandonment was contingent upon petitioner's willingness to give the desired wage increases. The evidence
also shows, as the Board found, that the employees did
not withdraw their designation of the union as their bargaining representative until after they had voted to accept
the wage increases, and that until then, they had held
themselves out as union members throughout their negotiations with petitioner and its representatives.
The National Labor Relations Act makes it the duty of
the employer to bargain collectively with the chosen representatives of his employees. The obligation being exclusive, see § 9 (a) of the Act, 29 U. S. C. § 159 (a), it

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

exacts "the negative duty to treat with no other." Labor
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 44; and see
VirginianRy. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 548549. Petitioner, by ignoring the union as the employees'
exclusive bargaining representative, by negotiating with
its employees concerning wages at a time when wage negotiations with the union were pending, and by inducing its
employees to abandon the union by promising them higher
wages, violated § 8 (1) of the Act, which forbids interference with the right of employees to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choice.
That it is a violation of the essential principle of collective bargaining and an infringement of the Act for the
employer to disregard the bargaining representative by
negotiating with individual employees, whether a majority
or a minority, with respect to wages, hours and working
conditions was recognized by this Court in J. I. Case Co. v.
Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332; of. Order of Railroad Telegraphers v. Railway Express Agency, 321 U. S. 342; see
also National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350,
359-361. The statute guarantees to all employees the
right to bargain collectively through their chosen representatives. Bargaining carried on by the employer directly with the employees, whether a minority or majority,
who have not revoked their designation of a bargaining
agent, would be subversive of the mode of collective bargaining which the statute has ordained, as the Board, the
expert body in this field, has found. Such conduct is
therefore an interference with the rights guaranteed by
There is no
§ 7 and a violation of § 8 (1) of the Act
That the Act "carries the clear implication that employers shall
not interfere" with the right of collective bargaining "by bargaining
with individuals or minority groups in their own behalf, after representatives have been picked by the majority to represent all," was
recognized by the reports of the Congressional committees recom2

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

Opinion of the Court.

necessity for us to determine the extent to which or the
periods for which the employees, having designated a bargaining representative, may be foreclosed from revoking
their designation, if at all, or the formalities, if any, necessary for such a revocation. Compare Labor Board v.
Century Oxford Mfg. Co., 140 F. 2d 541, C. C. A. 2d, decided February 15, 1944. But orderly collective bargaining requires that the employer be not permitted to go
behind the designated representatives, in order to bargain
with the employees themselves, prior to such a revocation.
And it is the fact here, as found by the Board, that the
employees did not revoke their designation of the union
as their bargaining agent at any time while they were
themselves negotiating with petitioner, and that they left
the union, as they had promised petitioner to do, only
when petitioner had agreed to give them increased
wages.
Quite apart from the Board's finding of an unfair labor
practice in petitioner's direct negotiations with its employees when they had not revoked their designation of
the union, there can be no question but that it was likewise an unfair labor practice for petitioner, in response
to the offer of its employees, to induce them by the grant
of wage increases, to leave the union.3 Labor Board v.
mending the adoption of the bill which became the National Labor
Relations Act. Sen. Rep. No. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13; H.
Rep. No. 1147,74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 20.
We find no evidence in the record that petitioner's representatives
stated to the employees either in terms or in substance, "We will give
you the [wage] increases and you can do as you please about the
uion!' From the evidence, which fully supports the findings, it appears that the employees proposed to petitioner's manager on June
7th that they would leave the union if they were given wage raises;
that the manager adjourned the meeting with the employees until
June 9th in order to consider the suggested wage increases with petitioner's president. On that date, after considering the matter with

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

Falk Corp., 308 U. S. 453, 460-461. This violation of
§ 8 (1) was in itself sufficient to support the Board's order
to cease and desist. The words and purpose of §§ 7 and
8 (1) of the Act enjoin an employer from interfering with,
or coercing, its employees in their rights to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, and to
bargain collectively through representatives of their own
choosing. There could be no more obvious way of interfering with these rights of employees than by grants of
wage increases upon the understanding that they would
leave the union in return. The action of employees with
respect to the choice of their bargaining agents may be
induced by favors bestowed by the employer as well as
by his threats or domination. InternationalAssociation
of Machinists v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72; Labor Board
v. Falk Corp., supra;Labor Board v. PennsylvaniaGreyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 266-268.
Petitioner contends that it would be equally an unfair
labor practice to refuse the wage increases as to grant them,
for that would influence the employees to stay in the
union, instead of abandoning it. But either consequence,
as well as any violation of the Act, would in this case have
been avoided if the employer, as is its statutory duty, had
refused to negotiate with any one other than the duly
designated bargaining representative of his employees.
We are not now concerned with the question whether, in
other circumstances, such action would have been an unfair labor practice. Nor does that possibility relieve petithe president, the manager announced to the employees that wage
increases would be given, and this was immediately followed by the
employees' desertion of the union. It also appears that it was petitioner's normal practice to grant wage increases only at the close of
the year. From these facts the Board could conclude, as it did, that
the purpose and the effect of the wage increases was to induce petitioner's employees to leave the union.

IEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

Opinion of the Court.

tioner of the consequences of its unfair labor practices
which the Board has found.
Petitioner was not relieved from its obligations because
the employees asked that they be disregarded. The
statute was enacted in the public interest for the protection of the employees' right to collective bargaining and
it may not be ignored by the employer, even though the
employees consent, Labor Board v. Newport News Co.,
308 U. S. 241, 251, or the employees suggest the conduct
found to be an unfair labor practice, NationalLicorice Co.
v. Labor Board, supra, 353, at least where the employer
is in a position to secure any advantage from these practices, H. J. Heinz Co. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 514, 519521, and cases cited.
Petitioner cannot, as justification for its refusal to bargain with the union, set up the defection of union members
which it had induced by unfair labor practices, even though
the result was that the union no longer had the support
of a majority. It cannot thus, by its own action, disestablish the union as the bargaining representative of
the employees, previously designated as such of their own
free will. Labor Board v. Bradford Dyeing Assn., 310
U. S. 318, 339-340; InternationalAssn. of Machinists v.
Labor Board,supra,82; cf. NationalLicorice Co. v. Labor
Board, supra, 359. Petitioner's refusal to bargain under
those circumstances was but an aggravation of its unfair
labor practice in destroying the majority's support of the
union, and was a violation of §§ 8 (1) and (5) of the Act.
The Board rightly determined that petitioner had engaged in the unfair labor practices which the Board found,
and this determination supports its order directing the
cessation of those practices. The petition for certiorari has
raised no question as to the propriety of the Board's order
directing petitioner to bargain with the union, which was
also sustained and ordered enforced by the Court of Ap-

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RTTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

peals. We therefore have no occasion to consider that
part of the order here. Compare FranksBros. Co. v. Labor
Board,post, p. 702.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissents.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting:

I dissent. The story told by this record is not of a
dominating or intermeddling employer, interfering with
employees in their collective bargaining arrangements or
activities. It is rather of one which sought to do no more
than meet its employees' wishes, freely formed and freely
stated; and at the same time to be sure it would do nothing
to violate the law governing their relations. The record
is barren of any evidence of trouble or real dispute between Medo and its employees, of hostility by Medo to
unions or employee organization, or of any refusal to bargain collectively as the statute requires.' On the contrary, it shows without contradiction that Medo regarded
these things as wholly for the employees to settle among
themselves; that it scrupulously sought to keep hands
off; and that it was willing to bargain with them by whatever agency they might select. These attitudes were
qualified only by the company's desire to be sure that the
union was entitled legally to represent the employees and
to avoid being caught in a possible jurisdictional dispute
between the A. F. of L. and the C. I. 0.2
The Board has found that Medo was guilty of unfair
labor practice in three respects: (1) in dealing directly
with the employees, rather than through the union, on
June 7 and 9; (2) in refusing to deal with the union; (3)
in granting the increased wages sought by the employees.
IThere was no refusal to bargain with the union until June 9,
1941, after the employer and the employees had reached a full agreement. Cf. note 6 infra.
2 Cf. note 5 infra.

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

RumnEwx, J., dissenting.

On the facts, (1) and (2) come to the same thing, that before June 7 the union had acquired legal status as exclusive bargaining agent, which was effective to require
Medo to deal only with it, and that this was not validly
revoked then or later. The same things are subsumed
by (3), which however poses the further question whether
granting the increase in itself was an unlawful interference. The questions thus presented may be pictured
more accurately in the light of further facts.
There is no evidence of labor trouble or employee dissatisfaction prior to May, 1941. On the contrary, for all
that appears, relations were peaceful and harmonious.
During that spring the A. F. of L.3 put on a campaign to
organize all photographic supply stores in New York.
In May it got around to Medo. The company had about
70 employees. Of these, about 25 or 26 (including some
supervisory employees) were in the shipping and receiving department, doing manual labor in the plant's basement. The others were clerical employees and salesmen,
working upstairs. Stoltman, the A. F. of L. organizer,
started out in May to organize all of Medo's employees
in a single unit. Apparently he was not successful upstairs. But by May 23 he had signed up 18 of the downstairs men. He and they then decided to limit the unit
to the basement, and requested the employer to negotiate.
At the same time the union applied to the Board for certification. There was some short delay, owing to the
absence of Medo's president over the Memorial Day
holiday. But on June 4, at the Board's arrangement,
the first conference concerning recognition was held.4
3Acting through the American Federation of Photo Employees
Union, Local 21314, of which Stoltman, chief union figure in this case,
was president.
4The Board's part in bringing about the conference was due solely
to the union's having applied to it for certification simultaneously
with the making of its first demand upon Medo to negotiate with it,
not to any refusal by M'edo to negotiate concerning recognition.

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

Several followed between that time and Saturday, June 7,
when the employees intervened for themselves.
At all times Medo showed willingness to negotiate.
But it also wished to be sure, as it had both the right and
the duty to be, that the unit was appropriate and the
Medo further
union had a majority of the employees
wanted to know something about the terms the union
would demand, if recognized; not wishing, as it said, to
"buy a pig in a poke." All of these things were matters
of discussion between Stoltman and various company
representatives in the conferences held on June 4 and 5.
But it was not until the latter date that Stoltman finally
submitted his substantive demands to Medo through
Seligsberg, its attorney.
The Board's findings, in effect, are that on June 5 Seligsberg, in this conference with Stoltman, conceded finally
all questions of representation, that is, of appropriateness
of the unit and the union's majority status. Hence it
concluded Medo then recognized the union as collective
agent and, consequently, the only thing remaining for
5 It felt, as Stoltman did at first, that there should be one unit in
the small plant and was fearful of becoming involved in a jurisdictional dispute if the A. F. of L. should organize the unit downstairs
and the C. 1. 0., which was actively organizing such units, should
come in and organize the clerical and sales employees working
upstairs.
The union clearly had a majority of the claimed unit from May
23 to June 7, since 18 of the 25 or 26 employees embraced in the
unit had signed membership application cards and none had revoked
his application or membership in that period.
The company, however, had to take Stoltman's word for this. It
asked him for proof that his union represented a majority, but he
declined to submit it, saying he would submit the cards only to a
Board representative. The record does not show that Medo ever
was given proof that the union had lined up its claimed and actual
majority. This was one of the things which, in my opinion, the record shows was held for discussion and determination at the conference scheduled for June 9. Cf. text infra notes 6-10.

IEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

Rumu a, J., dissenting.

further discussion was the terms of the collective agreement. This finding is the basis for the Board's conclusion that Medo was guilty of unfair labor practices when
it later dealt directly with the employees rather than
through the union. Medo, however, says that all three
questions remained open for final action by it at the conference scheduled for Monday, June 9, but not held because the employees intervened directly in their own
behalf on Saturday, June 7.3
Seligsberg made particular statements in his conference with Stoltman on June 5 which, if disconnected from
the context of the whole conversation and treated as in
themselves stating the employer's entire position, could
be taken as indicating intention to close the discussion on
appropriateness of the unit and the union's majority status. These statements are the Board's only foundation
for finding that Medo at any time conceded recognition
to the union with finality. In my opinion it would do violence to the facts to regard them as sufficient to sustain
these findings. The employer was entitled to a reasonable
time for ascertaining the union's status before dealing
11It is undisputed that the employees, entirely of their own motion and without any stimulus or suggestion by Medo, on Saturday
morning, June 7, sought a conference with Medo's officials, without
disclosing their purpose. The request was granted and the conference held Saturday afternoon. As it opened, one of the men mentioned the "union situation." But Medo's general manager, Hoppin,
at once and flatly declined to discuss that, saying he would discuss anything else. The men then stated their desire for an increase in wages, and not to have the union. They specified the
wages sought and Medo's reply, granting them in part, was given the
following Monday morning, June 9. On Monday afternoon there was
also a conference with Stoltman, but because of the turn events had
taken by the employees' intervention it served only as the occasion
for notifying him that Medo and the employees had reached agreement and therefore the company would not deal further with the

union.

692

OCTOBR
R

TERM, 1943.

,T.EnGn,J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

with it 7 and this had not expired on June 7 or, for that
matter, on June 9V Prior to June 5 all questions were
open. The conference then was not begun, carried
through or concluded with any intention or purpose that
understandings which might be reached were or could
be taken to be final. Medo's representative was doing a
lawyer's job,' which was to see how far he and Stoltman
could agree on terms to be considered by his client as a
basis for final decision. They had been successful previously in bringing other employers and employees together in more difficult disputes and the whole intent of
their conference was to find a basis of possible agreement
upon all matters, including representation,"0 for consider' Cf., e. g., North Electric Mfg. Co. v. Labor Board, 123 F. 2d 887
(C. C. A.); Texarkana Bus Co. v. Labor Board, 119 F. 2d 480, 484
(C. C.A.). See also LaborBoardv. Union Pacific Stages, 99 F. 2d 153,
158-159 (C. C. A.).
1It is to be recalled that the whole period from demand by the union
on Medo to negotiate to the time the employees intervened extended
only from May 23 to June 7, and that the period of active negotiation
began on June 4. Three days, or even a little more than two weeks,
is hardly too much under the circumstances here present to allow an
employer for determining whether the union meets the statute's
requirements.
9Seligsberg's testimony was: "That was the purpose of the postponement. They were to bring us proof of representation. We were
both to study the question of unit, and we were to study it-and when
I say 'we,' I mean the employer, because except as to language, I
wouldn't know anything about it. They were to study it. Mr. Hoppin and Mr. Goodfield and Mr. Niemeyer, if he were there-which I
don't remember-were to study the proposed terms and see how they
compared with the possibilities." (Emphasis added.) Seligsberg consistently testified that he and Stoltman considered "all three questions
together, proof of majority, proof of unit, and the contract." He was a
director and secretary of the company, but not a shareholder.
10 In the conference Seligsberg renewed a previous request for proof
that the union had a majority and conditioned the discussion upon the
company's being satisfied in this respect and that the unit was appropriate. Cf. note 9 supra. However, Stoltman again refused to exhibit
the cards and renewed his offer only to submit them to a Board rep-

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

Rul

GE,

J., dissenting.

ation by Medo for its final decision and with a view to further discussion and possible final settlement in the conference agreed upon for June 9. To tear Seligsberg's statements out of this setting and context and make of such
tentative understandings or bases of further negotiation
final concessions of recognition is to draw inferences
wholly unwarranted by the record. It is therefore not at
all clear that on June 7 negotiations had passed beyond
the stage of recognition or, consequently, that the union
then was legally entitled to act as exclusive bargaining
agent.
But even assuming that Medo on June 5, through Seligsberg, conceded recognition, still I cannot agree that
it committed any unfair labor practice, under the facts
shown here, either in merely hearing what the employees
had to say or, after declining to be drawn into discussion of their relations with the union,1 ' in granting unconditionally their freely made and wholly uncoerced request for an increase in wages. In my view it is immaterial that this, in effect, short-circuited the union, for two
reasons. One is that, under the special circumstances,
the employees had the right to revoke the designation and
did so by undertaking to deal for themselves; the other,
which is perhaps but a different way of stating the first,
is that the union itself had no right or interest sufficient
to prevent them from doing so.
At most the employer did nothing more than accede to
the wishes of a clear majority, both in listening to their
request and in granting it. There is no claim or semblance of proof that Medo induced the men to make the
resentative for comparison with Medo's payroll. The record does not

show this was ever done, although in my opinion, contrary to the
Board's findings, it does show conclusively that the parties contemplated it would be done and that the result of the comparison would
be given to Medo before the negotiations should be concluded with
finality of recognition.

11 Cf. note 6 supra.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RuT Ei,

J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

request. On the contrary, it is not disputed that, when
they asked for the conference on June 7, the request came
unexpectedly to Medo. And when, at the start of the
conference the men mentioned the union situation, Medo's
general manager, Hoppin, stated at once and flatly that
he would not discuss their union affairs or relations with
them, clearly implying that this was their business exclusively, not the company's.' Asked whether he would
discuss other matters, he answered affirmatively. The
men thereupon said they wanted the increase and there
is some evidence they also said unconditionally that they
did not want the union. 3 The Board, however, has found
that they coupled the two statements conditionally,
namely, that they did not want the union, if they could
have the increase without it.
The Board concluded that Medo's action on June 9 in
granting the increases, though less than what were requested, "constituted interference with the self-organizational rights of its employees," on the theory that this
influenced them to abandon the union. It also held that
the employees' action in approaching the company on
June 7 did not "constitute an implied revocation of their
designation of the Union so as to relieve the respondent
of the obligation to deal solely with it," and therefore
dealing directly with them was a violation of Medo's
"Cf. note 6 supra. Hoppin's testimony was in response to the
question "What happened after they came to your office?" (on
Saturday afternoon): "They came up and said that, 'We have decided that we don't want to have anything to do with the union.'
I immediately stopped them, and I told them that if there was anything at all pertaining to any union activities, I did not want to listen
to them at all, but if it was anything else they had to offer, I would be
willing to listen to them."
13 Hoppin testified he was told: "We have one thing that we are
primarily interested in. The working conditions here are excellent.
We are very happy with our jobs, but we would like to get more

money."

MIEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

RuLEDm

,

J., dissenting.

statutory duty to the union and an unfair labor practice.
The Board's theory was, apparently, that the men, to revoke their designation, were required to communicate
the revocation to the union and that the union had acquired such an interest or status no other act could terminate the agency, however inconsistent with its continued existence and exclusive character.
The statute makes no provision that the agency, once
created, shall continue for any specific time. It prescribes
no particular method for terminating, as it makes none
for creating," the agency. Greater formality hardly would
seem to be required in the one case than in the other. The
statute purports to be drawn in favor of protecting the
interests of employees, not those of unions as such. 5
True, while the agency exists it is exclusive for its appropriate purposes. But it is so only while it does exist
and the question here is whether it continued in force
after the employees took matters into their own hands
and showed to the employer by that act that they wanted
to deal for themselves, not through the union.
The Board implies and the Court says the employer
should have declined to discuss with them any matter
which was appropriate for collective bargaining, since the
union was their agent for this purpose. Therefore, it is
concluded, the employer violated their rights under the
statute to bargain collectively. This, although it is conceded the twelve employees spoke for 18 of the 25 or 26
I"Cf. Lebanon Steel Foundry v. Labor Board, 130 F. 2d 404 (App.
D. C.).
"*Whatever justiciable "interest" the union may have in continuing
to act as the employees' representative, its status as such is for the
principal's benefit, not its own, and is terminable at the former's will.
Cf. ConsolidatedEdison Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 237; Labor
Board v. Sands Mfg. Co., 306 U. S. 332, 344; Labor Board v. Fansteel
Metallurgical Corp., 306 U. S. 240, 261-262; Labor Board v. Remington Rand, 94 F. 2d 862, 869-870 (C. C. A.); Labor Board v. Lion
Shoe Co., 97 F. 2d 448.
576281-44-----48

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
RUTLDGm, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

in the unit and it does not appear that what they did was
disapproved or repudiated by the other six or seven.
Merely to state this proposition should be enough to
negate it. For it preserves rights of employees to bargain
by representatives of their own choosing by destroying
them. In all normal agency relations, except those
"coupled with an interest," 16 the principal can revoke
them by exercising the agency himself.17 He need not
notify the agent. When he acts on his own behalf, he exhausts the subject matter of the agency and it comes to
an end.
Unless a designated union acquires, by its selection,
a thraldom over the men who designate it analogous
to the power acquired by one who has a "power coupled
with an interest," unbreakable and irrevocable by him
who gave it, it would seem that any powers the union may
acquire by virtue of the designation would end whenever
those who confer them and on whose behalf they are to
be exercised take them back of their own accord into their
own hands and exercise them for themselves. And this
should be true, whether or not previous notice is given to
the union and whether or not the subject matter of the
resumption may include, as one consequence of the dealing, the possible continuance of the agency. For it is the
very taking back of the right to deal with their employer,
not what he does in response to this, unless that creates
some new pressure or influence not contemplated in the
employees' freely made proposals, that shows the intent
to destroy the agency. Dealing for themselves and dealing exclusively through the agent cannot coexist. The
10 See, e. g., Hunt v. Rousmanier's Administrators,8 Wheat. 174;
Lane Mortgage Co. v. Crenshaw, 93 Cal. App. 411, 269 P. 672; Hall
v. Bliss, 118 Mass. 554; Note (1930) 39 Yale L. J. 110.
17 See, e. g., Ahem v. Baker, 34 Minn. 98, 24 N. W. 341; Mott v.
Ferguson,92 Minn. 201, 99 N. W. 804; White & Hoskins v. Benton,
121 Iowa 354, 96 N. W. 876; Gilbert v. Holmes, 64 Ill. 548.

IEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

RUTLEIE, J.,

dissenting.

one wholly excludes the other and the real question becomes, which is to prevail, the agent's interest and right

or the principal's, the union's or the employees'?
I do not think Congress intended, by this legislation,
to create rights in unions overriding those of the employees
they represent."8 Nor did it require a special form or
mode for ending a collective agency any more than for
creating it. What Congress did was to give the designated union the exclusive right to bargain collectively as
long as, and only as long as, a majority of the employees
of the unit consent to its doing so. When that majority
vanishes by the employees' voluntary action, whatever
form this may take, and the fact is made unmistakably
clear to the employer, it not only is no longer under duty to
deal with the union; it comes under affirmative obligation
not to do so. For otherwise it would be dealing with a representative not of the employees' choice.
There are two possibly applicable limitations. One
is that the employer must not interfere to bring about the
abandonment. The other is that, in large units, where
there are difficult problems of ascertaining whether a majority exists at a particular time, a reasonable degree of
stability in employment relations may require, to give the
statute workable operation, that a majority designation
be deemed to continue for a reasonable period, though
changes meanwhile may take away the clearly existing
majority, a question not yet finally determined. 19
The latter limitation, if it is one, can have no reasonable
application to a small unit and a small employer under
circumstances like those involved here. In such a situation to impose it, where the actual desires of the majority
may be easily and readily ascertained at any time, would
Cf. note 15 supra.
9Cf. Labor Board v. Century Oxford Mfg. Corp., 140 F. 2d 541

18

(C.C.A.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Rumzno, J., dissenting.

321 U.

S.

be to force men into unions and into dealing with their
employers through unions contrary to the employees' own
wishes. The statute has no such purpose.
But it is said the other limitation applies here, that the
employer shall offer no inducement and exert no influence
to secure abandonment. This, too, is a salutary principle
when properly applied. And it may be applied as well
to a small unit and a small employer as to large ones.
But again the limitation is not universally applicable.
Whether it is applicable or not depends upon what the
employer does. Clearly if he stimulates a proposal from
the employees to abandon the union for any substantial
advantage he may give, the limitation should be effective.
But does he do this when, with no suggestion or intimation on his part, when rather he has shown every willingness to leave the whole matter of their organization
to his employees and to deal with them in any way they
wish, they come to him, without influence, without coercion, and make a proposal wholly of their own conception
and desire?
It is not impossible for men to want wage increases and
also to remain or become nonunion men at the same time.
Nor is such a combination of desires illegal. When such
a proposal is thus made, and the employer does no more
than was done here, namely, accede to it, knowing he is
dealing with a majority of the unit, saying in effect,
"Whether or not you have a union is your own business,
not mine. But whether you do or not, you get the increase
you want," then in my judgment two things have happened: (1) The employees have revoked the collective
agency, as they have a right to do; and (2) the employer
has been guilty of no unfair labor practice either in hearing their proposal or in acceding to it. He has done no
more than comply with the wishes of the majority, freely
formed and freely stated. And this it is the employer's
duty to do under the statute. If thereby the union has

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

RuTLEDE, J., dissenting.

been by-passed, it is not through the employer's action,
but rather through that of the employees. The employer's
response, so limited, is not a violation of the principle,
recently stated here,' that individual employees cannot
deal with the employer to create terms in the contract of
employment inconsistent with the collective agreement.
Such a situation presents no case of inconsistent individual
bargaining. It involves rather one of collective bargaining, not by individuals as such, but by the majority on
behalf of the unit.
Finally, if more is needed, the matter should be considered in the light of Medo's predicament when the employees made the proposal, account being taken of the
alternative courses open to it. Under the Court's ruling
it was between the devil and the deep blue sea. There
was no answer Medo could give which would not leave it
open to a charge and a finding of unfair labor practice.
The employees wanted an increase, according to the findings, with the union if they could not get one without it;
without the union, if they could. The main thing in their
minds was the increase, not the union.' In effect, according to the findings, they said so to their employer. It had
to keep silent or reply. It could reply in several ways:
(1) The union is your exclusive agent and we cannot deal
with you while it is such; (2) we will give you the increase
if you discharge the union; do that and then come back;
(3) we will give you the increase and you can do as you
please about the union; (4) we will not give the raise,
union or no union.
The Court says the company's reply should have been
(1), whereas its response actually was (3).22 It finds the
"IJ. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332; Order of Railroad
Telegraphers v. Railway Express Agency, 321 U. S. 342.
21 Cf. note 13 supra.
22That this is the fair meaning of Medo's response is clear from
its refusal to discuss or interfere in the employees' union activities, cf.
note 12 supra.

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Rum

, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

latter bad because in effect it offered "inducement" to the
employees to abandon the union. The trouble is that the
same thing would have been true of (1) or of any of the
other possible replies. Answers (2) and (4) clearly would
constitute unfair labor practices, under the Court's view,
the former as offering inducement to abandon, the latter
as a fiat refusal to bargain through the union or otherwise.
Answer (1), while purporting to say only that the employer could not deal with anyone as long as the union
retained its exclusive agency, in fact would be infected
with two faults. One would be the assumption that the
employees could not revoke the agency and take matters
back into their own hands, without giving prior notice to
the union, a question involved in the issues here. But,
even more plainly, by making this response the employer
would open itself to the charge and to the finding that it
had said, in effect: "We cannot deal with you directly
while the union's agency stands unrevoked," and thereby
had offered, by clear implication, the inducement of dealing with the employees directly, conditioned upon their
discharging the union.
The only other answers open to the employer were (3),
the one Medo actually made, and to remain silent.
Merely ignoring the employees might have been taken to
mean anything, but more probably answer (4) than any
other. Silence therefore afforded no escape from the
trap. Nor does the Act require silence in such a situation. Consequently answer (3), which Medo gave, was
the only one it could give consistently with the view
that the employer should hold out no inducement to the
employees to abandon the union. In effect it said simply,
"We are perfectly willing you should have the increase.
But whether you have it through the union or without
it is entirely your own business and we will not have anything to do with this." Any other reply would have

MEDO CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
678

RUTEE, J., dissenting.

been a counter-proposal offering inducement to abandon
or a rejection of all bargaining. The answer Medo gave
was neither. It was merely accession to the employees'
wishes, not "inducement" or offer held out; and it was
coupled with the clear indication, under the circumstances, that what the employees might do about the union
was wholly their own affair and none of Medo's.
Accordingly, I think Medo gave the only possible answer consistent with the statute's requirements and purposes and the only one which afforded no substantial
basis for finding either that it was refusing to bargain
collectively or that it was interfering with the employees' rights of organization by offering inducement to get
rid of the union. In my opinion the Wagner Act was not
designed or intended to put an employer, whose sole
purpose and conduct are to give his employees completely
free rein in matters of organization and collective bargaining, on such a spot that anything he may do will be,
or will form the basis for a finding that it is, an unfair
labor practice. So to construe the Act not only would
make it a trap for employers, but also would defeat the
very purposes the statute was intended to accomplish,
by fastening upon employers and employees alike union
domination the latter do not want. This would be to
destroy, not to safeguard, the employees' basic right of
collective bargaining by representatives of their own
choosing. I would reverse the judgment with instructions
to dismiss the petition for enforcement.

