CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
Counsel for Parties.

CARTER
NO. 134.

ET AL.

v. VIRGINIA.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS
OF VIRGINIA.*

Argued January 6, 1944.-Decided January 31, 1944.
1. Regulations by a State of the transportation of intoxicating liquor
through the State in interstate commerce, requiring (1) that the
vehicle use the most direct route and carry a bill of lading describing
the route; (2) that the carrier post a $1,000 bond conditioned on
lawful transportation; and (3) that the true consignee be named
in the bill of lading and be one who has a legal right to receive the
shipment at destination, held within the power of the State, independently of the Twenty-First Amendment, and not (absent conflicting federal regulation) in contravention of the Commerce
Clause. P. 137.
2. As no procedural due process point was raised, the state court's
conclusion that under the applicable state procedure only the bondsman, who was not a party to the present proceeding, had standing
to object to the cancellation of a bond given pursuant to the regulations, is accepted here. P. 136.
3. The power of the State Board to cancel a bond given pursuant to
the regulations, because of doubt of the responsibility of the bondsman, does not constitute an undue burden on interstate commerce.
P. 136.
181 Va. 306, 313, 24 S. E. 2d 550, 569, affirmed.

APPEALS from convictions for violation of state regulations relating to the transportation of intoxicating liquors.
Mr. John S. Battle, with whom Messrs. R. E. Joyce and
Aubrey G. Weaver were on the brief, for appellants in No.
134; and Mr. Warren E. Miller, with whom Mr. Edward
G. Hobbs was on the brief, for appellants in No. 198.
Mr. Abram P. Staples, Attorney General of Virginia,
for appellee.
*Together with No. 198, Dickerson et al. v. Virginia, also on appeal
from the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia.

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

MR. JusTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellants were convicted of violations of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Act 1 and certain Regulations issued pursuant to it, concerning the transportation of
intoxicating liquor through the Commonwealth. Their
contention that the pertinent provisions of the Act and
Regulations 2 violated the Commerce Clause, Article I,
§ 8 (3), of the Federal Constitution was rejected by Virginia's highest court, the Supreme Court of Appeals. 181
Va. 306, 313, 24 S. E. 2d 550, 569. The cases are here on
appeals pursuant to § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28

U. S. C. § 344 (a).
The Act in question contains a comprehensive scheme
for the control of trade in alcoholic beverages within the
territory of Virginia. By the statute an Alcoholic Beverage Control Board is established and authorized to adopt
such regulations "as it may deem necessary" to confine the
transportation of liquor "to legitimate purposes." 8 The
A. B. C. Board promulgated regulations applicable to
IMichie's Virginia Code (1942) § 4675.
2Regulations

§§42,44.

of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board,

3
Virginia Code, § 4675 (49a). "Transportation; transportation
permits; penalties.--The transportation of alcoholic beverages, other
than wine and beer purchased from persons licensed to sell same in
this State, and those alcoholic beverages which may be manufactured
and sold without any license under the provisions of this act, within,
into or through the State of Virginia in quantities in excess of one gallon is prohibited except in accordance with regulations adopted by
the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board pursuant to this section.
"The board may adopt such regulations governing the transportation of alcoholic beverages, other than wine and beer purchased from
persons licensed to sell same in this State and those alcoholic beverages which may be manufactured and sold without any license under the provisions of this act, within, into or through Virginia in quantities in excess of one gallon as it may deem necessary to confine such
transportation to legitimate purposes and may issue transportation
permits in accordance with such regulations....2

CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
131

133

Opinion of the Court.

transportation through Virginia.4 The requirements here
in issue are these: (1) The vehicle must use the most direct
route and carry a bill of lading showing the route it will
travel; (2) The carrier must post a bond in the penal sum
of $1,000 conditioned on lawful transportation; and (3)
4Section 42 of the Regulations provides: "Before any person shall
transport any alcoholic beverages within, into, or through the State
of Virginia, such person shall post with the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board a bond with approved surety, payable to the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the penalty of One Thousand Dollars, upon
condition that such person will not unlawfully transport and/or deliver
any alcoholic beverages within, into, or through the State of Virginia,
and evidence that the required bond has been posted shall accompany
the alcoholic beverages at all times during transportation. . ."
Section 44 reads as follows: "Where alcoholic beverages are desired
to be transported within, into, or through the State of Virginia (except
those instances mentioned in Sections 42 and 43 of these Regulations),
such transportation shall be engaged in only when in accordance with
the provisions of these regulations:
"(a) There shall accompany such alcoholic beverages at all times
during transportation, a bill of lading or other memorandum of shipment signed by the consignor showing an exact description of the alcoholic beverages being transported; the name and address of the consignor; the name and address of the consignee; the route to be traveled by such vehicle while in Virginia and such route must be the most
direct route from the consignor's place of business to the place of business of the consignee.
"(b) Vehicles transporting alcoholic beverages shall not vary from
the route specified in the bill of lading or other memorandum of shipment.
"(c) The name of the consignor on any such bill of lading or other
memorandum of shipment shall be the name of the true consignor of
the alcoholic beverages being transported and such consignor shall
only be a person who has a legal right to make such shipment. The
name of the consignee on any such bill of lading or memorandum of
shipment shall be the name of the true consignee of the alcoholic beverages being transported and who has previously authorized in writing the shipment of the alcoholic beverages being transported and who
has a legal right to receive such alcoholic beverages at the point of
destination shown on the bill of lading or other memorandum of
shipment."

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

The bill of lading must show the name of the true consignee, and that consignee must have a legal right to
receive the beverages at the stated destination.
Both cases reached the Virginia Supreme Court on stipulated facts. In No. 134, it was agreed that Carter and
Macemore received 168 gallons of whiskey from a wholesaler in Maryland for transportation to an individual consignee in Thomasville, North Carolina. The appellants
were apprehended in Rappahannock County, Virginia,
while carrying the whiskey by truck. The appellants
themselves did not post a bond, and a bond which was
posted by the registered owner of the truck was cancelled
because he was reputed to be a bootlegger. Their bill of
lading did not show the route to be traversed through Virginia, and the intended delivery to the consignee was forbidden by the laws of North Carolina.
The facts stipulated in No. 198 are similar. Dickerson
was arrested in Prince William County, Virginia, while
driving a truck carrying more than one gallon of alcoholic
beverages. He was traveling by the most direct route
from Maryland to his employer-consignee, Page, in North
Carolina. Page had posted the required bond, but the
bill of lading did not show the route to be traveled, and
Page was forbidden by the laws of North Carolina to accept delivery there.
All the individuals involved in the two cases were residents of North Carolina.
The appellants argue, first, that the Twenty-first
Amendment gives Virginia no power to prohibit absolutely
the shipment of liquor from Maryland to North Carolina through Virginia; second, that its power to regulate
such shipments is limited by the Commerce Clause to regulations reasonably necessary to enforce its local liquor
laws and not unduly burdensome on interstate commerce;
third, that Virginia has no authority to penalize prospective violations of the criminal laws of North Carolina or

CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
131

Opinion of the Court.

the United States. It will be observed that the intoxicating liquors in question are intended for continuous
shipment through Virginia, so that here, as in the Duckworth case,' a different question arises from those considered under the Twenty-first Amendment,' where transportation or importation into a state for delivery or use
therein was prohibited. But we may put aside the first
and third contentions, for we are satisfied that Virginia
may, notwithstanding the Commerce Clause and independently of the Twenty-first Amendment, in order to
protect herself from illicit liquor traffic within her borders,
subject the shipment of liquor through Virginia to the
regulations here in question.
We have recognized that the several states in the absence of federal legislation may require regulatory licenses
for through shipments of liquor in order to guard against
violations of their own laws. Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314
U. S. 390. Thus this Court has extended to this very
field its recognition that regulation of interstate commerce
by local authority in the absence of Congressional action
is admissible to protect the state from injuries arising from
that commerce. Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109,
113, 115, and cases cited; Clarkv.PaulGray,Inc., 306 U. S.
583, 591; Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S. 407, 410; Clyde
Mallory Lines v. Alabama, 296 U. S. 261, 267. The commerce power of Congress is not invaded by such police
regulations as Virginia has here enforced.
The state of transit may compel the carrier to furnish
information necessary for checking the shipment against
unlawful diversion, and the requirement that the truck
follow a direct, stated route is within the rule of Duck5
Duckworth v.
8

Arkansas, 314 U. S. 390, 392-3.
See State Board v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59; Mahoney
v. Joseph Triner Corp., 304 U. S. 401; Indianapolis Brewing Co. v.
Liquor Commission, 305 U. S. 391; Joseph S. Finch & Co. v. McKittrick, 305 U. S. 395.
576281--44----13

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

worth v. Arkansas, supra. Similarly, a state may require
a reasonable bond of one who wishes to engage in interstate trade of a kind dangerous to well-recognized local
interests. Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109.
The state court did not pass upon the legality under
state or federal law of the cancellation of the bond in No.
134, since it concluded that only the bondsman, who was
not a party to the proceeding, had standing to object
under applicable state procedure. As no procedural due
process point is raised, we accept its conclusion without
further examination. United Gas Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S.
123, 139. It is urged, however, that the Board's power to
cancel a bond because of doubts as to the trustworthiness
of the bondsman amounts to an undue burden on interstate commerce.
The bond is to be furnished, according to § 42 of the
Regulations, by the person transporting the liquor. Thus
the requirement that the bond be signed by a responsible
person appears to raise the same type of question as the
requirement that delivery be lawful at the place of consignment, and the two may be considered together. Of
the latter rule, the Virginia court said,
"We cannot escape the conclusion that one who deliberately and intentionally violates the Federal Constitution
and the law of his resident State, in the unlawful transportation of liquor would hardly hesitate to violate the
laws of this State while passing through it if he thought
he might profit thereby. We cannot shut our eyes to
the possibilities of such a situation and the necessity of
prevention."
We are therefore dealing with a case in which Virginia
is attempting no more than the enforcement of her own
laws; she is not seeking to inflict punishment for the violation of the laws of North Carolina. Whether or not she
is entitled thus to enforce her laws must be judged in the

CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
131

Opinion of the Court.

light of our long-standing recognition of the exceptional
problems involved in successfully regulating trade in intoxicating liquors. Clark DistillingCo. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 332; Duckworth v. Arkansas,
supra, at 396. We do not consider the appellee's suggestion that complete exclusion (and hence these partial restraints) of motor carriers from the through liquor
traffic and a limitation of through transit to rail carriers
would be consonant with the Commerce Clause. Cf. Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308 U. S. 132, 140. Whatever may
be the effect of the Twenty-first Amendment, this record
presents no problem that may not be resolved under the
Commerce Clause alone. That Clause remains in the
Constitution as a grant of power to Congress to control
commerce and as a diminution pro tanto of absolute state
sovereignty over the same subject matter. The Twentyfirst Amendment limits that grant of power as to intoxicating liquor by prohibiting "transportation or importation
into any State, Territory, or possession of the United
States for delivery or use therein . . . in violation of the
laws thereof." By interpretation of this Court the Amendment has been held to relieve the states of the limitations
of the Commerce Clause on their powers over such transportation or importation
It has also been held that
shipment through a state is not transportation or importation into the state within the meaning of the Amendment. Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S. 518, 535,
538. But in the present case we need not consider the
power of Virginia under the Twenty-first Amendment to
regulate through shipments. It is enough that Virginia
could conclude, in the absence of contrary federal legislation, that she could not safely permit the transportation
7 State

Board v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59; Indianapos

Brewing Co. v. Liquor Commission, 305 U. S. 391.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAcK, J., concurring.

321 U. S.

of liquor through her territory by those who concededly
mean to break federal laws' and the laws of a neighboring
state. By her ruling she has imposed no substantial clog
on whatever cognate rights her sister states may have to
determine their own policies regarding intoxicating liquors
and to receive alcoholic beverages in interstate commerce,
if they so desire.
For these reasons the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result only, for the
reasons stated in his separate opinion in Duckworth v.
Arkansas, 314 U. S. 390.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK, concurring:

I am not sure that state statutes regulating intoxicating liquor should ever be invalidated by this Court under
the Commerce Clause except where they conflict with
valid federal statutes. Cf. dissenting opinions, McCarroll
v. Dixie Greyhound Lines, 309 U. S. 176, 183; Gwin,
White & Princev. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 442; Adams
Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 316. The
Twenty-first Amendment has placed liquor in a category
different from that of other articles of commerce. Though
the precise amount of power it has left in Congress to regulate liquor under the Commerce Clause has not been
marked out by decisions, this much is settled: local, not
national, regulation of the liquor traffic is now the general
Constitutional policy. Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308 U. S.
132; IndianapolisBrewing Co. v. Liquor Control Comm'n,
305 U. S. 391; State Board of Equalization v. Young's
Market Co., 299 U. S. 59.
Whatever limited force the Commerce Clause may retain with regard to the liquor traffic, it should not require
the invalidation of the Virginia statutes here involved,
8

Twenty-first Amendment, § 2; 27 U. S. C. § 122.

CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
131

FRKF URTflR,

J., concurring.

which do not conflict with any Act of Congress, and which
are designed to enforce local liquor policies. Virginia
seems to think that, unless adequate precautionary regulations are devised and enforced, liquor shipments ostensibly being transported through her territory to a
neighboring state could be diverted for bootleg purposes
contrary to her laws. Such precautionary regulations
must come from either Virginia or the federal government.
The legislature of Virginia has provided them; the Congress has not. This Court could invalidate the Virginia
regulations, but only the Congress could devise and substitute effective federal regulations to take their place. I
therefore agree with the Court "that Virginia could con-:
clude, in the absence of contrary federal legislation, that
she could not safely permit the transportation of liquor
through her territory by those who concededly mean to
break federal laws and the laws of a neighboring state."
M

.JUsTIcE FRANKFURTER,

concurring:

1. After as thorough a consideration as it ever gave to a
problem, this Court, in a long series of cases beginning
with Bowman v. Chicago & North Western Ry. Co., 125
U. S. 465, decided that intoxicating liquor is a legitimate
subject of commerce, as much so as cabbages and candlesticks, and as such within the protection of the Commerce
Clause. In the absence of regulation by Congress, the
movement of intoxicants in interstate commerce like that
of all other merchantable goods was "free from all state
control." Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry.
Co., 242 U. S.311, 323, 327, citing Leisy v. Hardin, 135
U. S. 100; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.545; Vance v. Vandercook Company (No. 1), 170 U. S. 438; Rhodes v. Iowa,
170 U. S. 412. All of these decisions are still on the books.
And so, before the Twenty-first Amendment displaced
the Eighteenth, Mr. Justice Holmes was able to say: "I
cannot for a moment believe that apart from the Eight-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
FRANxURTE,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

eenth Amendment special constitutional principles exist
against strong drink. The fathers of the Constitution so
far as I know approved it." Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 169.
2. If then the Commerce Clause be the measure of State
action, such a requirement as the posting of a bond for
transportation of goods from without Virginia would be
beyond Virginia's powers even if the shipment of the liquor
were for delivery into Virginia. Heyman v. Southern Ry.
Co., 203 U. S.270; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 206
U. S.129. Cases like Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S.
109, which recognize the power of States to regulate local
activities by taxation or otherwise related even though they
be to interstate commerce, but none of which was concerned with restricting the through-passage of goods, liquor
or any other, afford no basis for suggesting that a State
has power to license the movement of goods in interstate
commerce on oppressive or prohibitive terms. A fortiori,
the Commerce Clause would prohibit and not permit such
legislation as is before us in the case of liquor arriving in
Virginia for ultimate delivery without. Heyman v. Hays,
236 U. S. 178.
3. In the light of the uniform current of decisions under
the Commerce Clause prior to the Twenty-first Amendment, the Virginia legislation could not survive as to
shipments bound beyond its borders. If the legislation
is valid, as I believe it to be, it must be solely because the
range of State control over liquor has been extended
by the Twenty-first Amendment beyond the permissive
bounds of the Commerce Clause.
4. The legislation is sustainable under the Twenty-first
Amendment on one of two considerations. It is a notorious fact that State prohibition laws were to no small
measure evaded by illicit diversion of liquor claimed to be
transported through a State. Since we are dealing with

CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
131

FAxxFumm, J., concurring.

a constitutional amendment that should be broadly and
colloquially interpreted, liquor that enters a State in the
manner in which the liquor here came into Virginia may,
without undue liberty with the English language, be
deemed to be for "delivery" there even though it is consigned for another State. The Twenty-first Amendment
prohibits the "transportation or importation into any
State . . . of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws
thereof," not when the liquor is for delivery and use but
for "delivery or use therein." In other words, liquor
need not be intended for consumption in a State to be
deemed to be imported into the State and therefore subject to control by that State. The decision in Collins v.
Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S. 518, has nothing whatever
to do with the relation of the Commerce Clause to the
power given the States by the Twenty-first Amendment
to control the liquor traffic. That was a suit "to restrain
enforcement of the [California] Alcoholic Beverage Control Act within Yosemite Park, on the theory that the
Park is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States." All that was there decided, after extended consideration of the relation of the United States to the Yosemite
Park, was that the United States did exercise exclusive jurisdiction over the land ceded by California to the
Federal Government for park purposes, and that of course
when "exclusive jurisdiction is in the United States, without power in the State to regulate alcoholic beverages,
the XXI Amendment is not applicable." 304 U. S. at
538. State control must yield to superior federal power,
but State control by one State, since the Twenty-first
Amendment, need not yield to State control by another
State.
5. In the alternative, since Virginia has power to prohibit the importation of liquor within that Commonwealth, it may effectuate that purpose by measures

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
hAxFmTER,

J., concurring.

321 U. S.

deemed by it necessary to prevent evasion of its policy
by pretended through-shipments. In a word, having the
power to prohibit liquor from coming into a State, a State
may take measures against frustration of that power by
resort to the claim that liquor passing through a State enjoys the protection of the Commerce Clause. If a State
may take these protective measures, as surely it may, who
is to decide what measures are necessary for its protection? If a State may ask for the posting of a $1,000 bond,
may she not require a $10,000 bond? If a State should
urge that its experience shows that any regulatory system is ineffective because illicit diversion is too resourceful for control by mere regulation and requires prohibition, who is to say, in view of the history embedded in the
Twenty-first Amendment, that a State may not fairly act
on such a judgment? Are not these peculiarly political,
that is legislative, questions which were not meant by the
Twenty-first Amendment to continue to be the fruitful
apple of judicial discord, as they were before the Twentyfirst Amendment?
6. It is now suggested that a State must keep within
"the limits of reasonable necessity" and that this Court
must judge whether or not Virginia has adopted "regulations reasonably necessary to enforce its local liquor
laws." Such canons of adjudication open wide the door
of conflict and confusion which have in the past characterized the liquor controversies in this Court and in no
small measure formed part of the unedifying history which
led first to the Eighteenth and then to the Twenty-first
Amendment.
7. Less than six years ago this Court rejected the impossible task of deciding, instead of leaving it for legislatures
to decide, what constitutes a "reasonable regulation" of
the liquor traffic, The issue was fairly presented in Ma-

CARTER v. VIRGINIA.
131

nx~rumum,

J., concurring.

honey v. Triner Corp., 304 U. S. 401. And this was the
holding:
"We are asked to limit the power conferred by the
Amendment so that only those importations may be forbidden which, in the opinion of the Court, violate a reasonable regulation of the liquor traffic. To do so would,
as stated in the Young's Market case, [299 U. S. 59] p. 62,
'involve not a construction of the Amendment, but a rewriting of it.'" 304 U. S. at 404.
Therefore if a State, in aid of its powers of prohibition,
may regulate, without let or hindrance by courts regarding
the "reasonableness" of a regulation, it may do so whether
the liquor is openly consigned for consumption within it
or intended for consumption there although, by subterfuge too difficult to check, nominally destined elsewhere.
8. Fuller consideration has therefore convinced me that
the power exercised by the State in Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314 U. S. 390, as well as in this case must rest on
the authority given to the States by the Twenty-first
Amendment. And since Virginia derives the power to
legislate as she did from the Twenty-first Amendment,
the Commerce Clause does not come into play. So this
Court has twice ruled. "Since the Twenty-first Amendment, as held in the Young case [299 U. S. 59], the right of
a state to prohibit or regulate the importation of intoxicating liquor is not limited by the commerce clause."
IndianapolisBrewing Co. v. Liquor Commission, 305 U. S.
391,394; see also Finch & Co. v. McKittrick, 305 U. S. 395,
398.

