OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

321 U.S.

thereof, or any similar form of contract for any period subsequent to the date of this Decree, that such contract will
not in any manner be enforced or attempted to be enforced
to forestallcollective bargainingor deter self-organization,
that the employee is not required or expected by virtue of
such contract to deal with respondent individually in respect to ratesof pay, wages, hours of employment, or other
conditions of employment, and that such discontinuance of
the contract is without prejudice to the assertion of any
legal rights the employee may have acquired under such
contract or to any defenses thereto by the employer."
As so modified the decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

is of opinion that the judgment

should be reversed.

ORDER OF RAILROAD TELEGRAPHERS v. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 343. Argued November 10, 1943.-Decided February 28, 1944.
1. Failure of the carrier to give notice, to the representative of the
employees, of an intended change affecting rates of pay of certain
individual employees was in violation of § 6 of the Railway Labor
Act of 1926, applicable to the collective agreement in question, and
rendered ineffective the individual agreements entered into; and the
award of the Adjustment Board, based on the collective agreement,
was in accordance with law. P. 346.
2. An award of the Adjustment Board under the Railway Labor Act,
held enforcible in a proceeding in the federal district court begun
within two years of the date of the award, and not barred by a state
statute of limitation of six years (even if applicable) merely because
the claims became six years old while proceedings were pending
before the Board. P. 348.
137 F. 2d 46, reversed.

TELEGRAPHERS v. RY. EXPRESS AGENCY. 343
342

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORAm,

320 U. S. 727, to review the reversal of a

judgment for the plaintiff in a suit to enforce an award of
the Adjustment Board under the Railway Labor Act.
Mr. William G. McRae, with whom Mr. Leo J. Hassenauer was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Blair Foster, with whom Messrs. A. M. Hartung
and H. S. Marx were on the brief, for respondent.
D". JusTICE

JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This hoary litigation presents the question whether a
carrier by contracts with individual employees made in
1930 could supersede or expand terms of an agreement collectively bargained between the employer and the union
in 1917, in view of the provisions of the Railway Labor Act
of 1926, which was applicable when the controversy
arose.
Petitioner was a union designated to represent certain
crafts and classes of employees of carriers by railroad.
Employees here involved are agents at stations on the
Seaboard Airline Railroad, who primarily are employees
of the railway and secondarily of the railway express
agency; they receive compensation from each employer.
For some years they were represented by the union in
bargaining collective agreements with predecessor express
companies. The last was executed in 1917 and was assumed by this respondent March 1, 1929.
In 1930, the Express Company began to handle new
business consisting mainly of carload shipments of perishables which formerly had been handled by the railroad
company as freight. The Express Company thought the
change in volume and character of its shipments warranted an adjustment of rates of pay applicable to certain
of the agencies where the shipments originated. The
Railway Labor Act of 1926, then in effect, provided that
576281-44----26

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
321 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carriers and representatives of employees should give at
least thirty days' written notice of an intended change
affecting rates of pay, rules, or working conditions, and
should agree upon time and place of conference.' The
collective agreement also provided that no change should
be made in its terms "until after 30 days' notice in writing
has been given." The Express Company gave no such
notice to the union signatory to the 1917 collective agreement. Instead, it gave individual notices to the agents
that their compensation for such shipments would be
$5.00 per car, the notices on one division going out on
March 25, and those on another, April 8, and all becoming
effective April 10, 1930. The agents involved, after
various objections and negotiations, individually accepted
the rate, although there is controversy as to whether their
acceptance was wholly voluntary. For purposes of decision, however, we assume voluntary assent and that but
for provisions of the Railway Labor Act valid individual
contracts resulted.
The local chairman of the union protested and insisted
that collective bargaining must control the compensation
of the agents. The Express Company declined to accede
to the claims, and the union's clahn that the agents must
be compensated under the collective agreement remained
unadjusted. Attempts to adjust were renewed by the
general chairman, but no voluntary Board of Adjustment
was agreed upon as provided under § 3 of the 1926 Act.'
1 § 6,44 Stat. 582. This provided: "Carriers and the representatives
of the employees shall give at least thirty days' written notice of an
intended change affecting rates of pay, rules, or working conditions,
and the time and place for conference between the representatives of
the parties interested in such intended changes shall be agreed upon
within ten days after the receipt of said notice, and said time shall

be within the thirty days provided in the notice. . .

."

The 1934

Act contains a similar provision. § 6, 48 Stat. 1197, 45 U. S. C. § 156.
244

Stat. 578.

TELEGRAPHERS v. RY. EXPRESS AGENCY. 345
342

Opinion of the Court.

The statutory Board was created in 1934,1 the Company
refused to join the union in a petition, and the union on
October 8, 1935, gave notice of its intention to refer the
dispute to the Board. The Company challenged the
Board's jurisdiction, a hearing was had, the bi-partisan
board deadlocked, a referee was named, and in 1936 objections to jurisdiction were overruled and a hearing on
the merits was directed. After the hearing the Board
again deadlocked, again a referee was chosen, and on December 15, 1937, an award sustaining the claims that the
agents were entitled to the compensation provided by the
collectively bargained agreement was made, accompanied
by a holding that the individual contracts were ineffective.
The Company failed to comply with the award and in
December 1939, after almost two years, the present action
was commenced in the United States District Court. The
district courts are given jurisdiction to enforce awards
of the Board, its orders and findings being declared to be
"prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated." Laws
1934, c. 691, § 3, First (p), 48 Stat. 1192. In June 1942
decision was rendered by which the district court enforced
the Adjustment Board's award. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed upon the ground that the collective
agreement had been superseded validly by the individual
contracts and upon the further ground that the claims
under collective agreements were barred by the statute
3 Act of 1934, § 3, 48 Stat. 1189. § 3, First (i) provides: "The
disputes between an employee or group of employees and a carrier
or carriers growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or
application of agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, or working
conditions, including cases pending and unadjusted on the date of
approval of this Act, shall be handled in the usual manner up to and
including the chief operating officer of the carrier designated to handle
such disputes; but, failing to reach an adjustment in this manner, the
disputes may be referred by petition of the parties or by either party
to the appropriate division of the Adjustment Board with a full statement of the facts and all supporting data bearing upon the disputes."

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

of limitations.4 These questions are unsettled ones important to the administration of the current Railway
Labor Act, and we granted certiorari.'
1. The Company contends that special voluntary individual contracts as to rates of pay, rules, and conditions
of employment may validly be made, notwithstanding the
existence of a collective agreement, and that the terms of
the individual agreements supersede those of the collectively bargained one. If this were true, statutes requiring collective bargaining would have little substance, for
what was made collectively could be promptly unmade
individually. It is said, however, that in this case the
agreements affect relatively few agents and that those are
specially and uniquely situated. This apparently is true,
for the application of the collective agreement results in
an award of some $40,000 to one agent over the period and
less than $2,000 to all of the others, and most of the awards
are for a few hundred dollars.
Collective bargaining was not defined by the statute
which provided for it, but it generally has been considered
to absorb and give statutory approval to the philosophy
of bargaining as worked out in the labor movement in the
United States.' From the first the position of labor with
reference to the wage structure of an industry has been
much like that of the carriers about rate structures.' It is
insisted that exceptional situations often have an importance to the whole because they introduce competitions and
discriminations that are upsetting to the entire structure.
4 137 F. 2d 46.
5320 U. S. 727.
6Cf. H. J. Heinz Co. v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 514, 523-26.
7See Lenhoff, The Present Status of Collective Contracts in the
American Legal System, 39 Mich. L. Rev. 1109; Daugherty, Labor
Problems in American Industry (1933) p. 415; Taylor, Labor Problems and Labor Law (1938) p. 85 et seq.; Golden and Ruttenberg,
The Dynamics of Industrial Democracy (1942) pp. 23-26, 82 et seq.

TELEGRAPHERS v. RY. EXPRESS AGENCY. 347
342

Opinion of the Court.

Hence effective collective bargaining has been generally
conceded to include the right of the representatives of the
unit to be consulted and to bargain about the exceptional
as well as the routine rates, rules, and working conditions.
Collective bargains need not and do not always settle or
embrace every exception. It may be agreed that particular situations are reserved for individual contracting, either
completely or within prescribed limits. Had this proposed rate of pay been submitted to the collective bargaining process it might have been settled thereby or might
have resulted in an agreement that the Company should
be free to negotiate with the agents severally. But the
Company did not observe the right of the representatives
of the whole unit to be notified and dealt with concerning a
matter which from an employee's point of view may not
be exceptional or which may provide a leverage for taking
away other advantages of the collective contract.
The decision in J. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board, ante, p.
332, considers more generally the relation of individual
contracts to collective bargaining, and much that is said
in that opinion is applicable here.
We hold that the failure of the carrier to proceed as provided by the Railway Labor Act of 1926, then applicable,
left the collective agreement in force throughout the period
and that the carrier's efforts to modify its terms through
individual agreements are not effective. The award,
therefore, was in accordance with the law.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals held the claims barred
by the state six-year statute of limitations applicable in
the forum. It is true that the enforcement of the award
results in entering judgment in 1942 on claims that began
to accrue in 1930 and some of which ceased to accrue over
six years before the suit in the District Court was commenced. It also is true that some of these have accrued
in large amounts.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

If the action brought in 1939 had been a common-law
action to recover wages, like that in Moore v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 312 U. S. 630, a quite different question
of limitations would be presented. The action as brought,
however, was not a common-law action but one of statutory origin to enforce the award of an administrative tribunal. A special two-year limitation from the time of
award was prescribed by the federal statute,8 and this
action was brought within that period. It is clear that as
an action to enforce the award the suit was not barred, and
it must therefore have been the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals that the statute barred the administrative tribunal from making an award on claims so old.
There is no federal statute of limitations applicable to
unadjusted claims which the Adjustment Board may consider. It is difficult to see how state statutes of limitations can restrict the power of the federal administrative
tribunal to consider and adjust claims. Moreover, even
if the six-year statute did apply to the claims under the
collective contract, as we think it did not, proceedings on
these claims were initiated before the Board well within
that time.
If, therefore, these claims are barred, it must be because the time occupied in their litigation before the
Adjustment Board operates to defeat them. A state
statute of limitations can hardly destroy a claim because
the period of actual contest over it in a federal tribunal
extends beyond the limitation period.
Statutes of limitation, like the equitable doctrine of
laches, in their conclusive effects are designed to promote
justice by preventing surprises through the revival of
8

Act of 1934, § 3, First (q), 48 Stat. 1192, 45 U. S. C. § 153, First
(q): "All actions at law based upon the provisions of this section
shall be begun within two years from the time the cause of action
accrues under the award of the division of the Adjustment Board,
and not after."

ANDERSON v. ABBOTT.
342

Syllabus.

claims that have been allowed to slumber until evidence
has been lost, memories have faded, and witnesses have
disappeared. The theory is that even if one has a just
claim it is unjust not to put the adversary on notice to
defend within the period of limitation and that the right
to be free of stale claims in time comes to prevail over the
right to prosecute them. Here, while the litigation shows
no evidence of reckless haste on the part of either party, it
cannot be said that the claims were not timely pursued.
Regrettable as the long delay has been it has been caused
by the exigencies of the contest, not by the neglect to proceed. We find no basis for applying a state statute of
limitations to cut off the right of the Adjustment Board
to consider the claims or to absolve the courts from the
duty to enforce an award.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTiCE ROBERTS is of opinion that the judgment

should be affirmed for the reasons given in the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 137 F. 2d 46.

ANDERSON, RECEIVER, v. ABBOTT,
ADMINISTRATRIX, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No.3. Argued February 8, 1943. Reargued January 12, 13, 1944.Decided March 6, 1944.
1. Upon the facts, held that shareholders of a bank-stock holding
company were liable for an assessment on shares of a national
bank in the portfolio of the holding company. Construing Federal
Reserve Act, § 23; National Bank Act, § 12. P. 356.
So held of shareholders who acquired their holding-company shares
by purchase as well as of others who acquired their holding-company
shares by transfer of bank shares.

