VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
414

Syllabus.

dure should be approved which dispenses with trial of any

material issue or splits the trial into disjointed segments,
one of which is summary and civil, the other but a remnant of the ancient criminal proceeding.
The judgment should be reversed.
I am authorized to say that MR.JUSTICE MURPHY joins
in this opinion.
VINSON, DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC STABILIZATION, ET AL. V. WASHINGTON GAS LIGHT CO.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 396. Argued February 11, 14, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 specifically withheld from
the Administrator authority to regulate the rates of any public
utility. The amendatory Act of October 2, 1942 provided "That
no ... public utility shall make any general increase in its rates
or charges which were in effect on September 15, 1942, unless it
first gives thirty days notice to the President, or such agency as
he may designate, and consents to the timely intervention by such
agency before the Federal, State, or municipal authority having
stantial equivalent to defense in a criminal trial. And the opportunity
should be long enough so that the failure to take it reasonably could
be taken to mean that the party intends, by not taking it, to waive
the question actually and not by forced surrender. So safeguarded,
the foreclosure of such questions in this way would not work a
substantial deprivation of defense.
In respect to other questions, such as the drawing of racial or
religious lines in orders or by their application, of a character determinable as well by the criminal as by the special tribunal, in my
opinion the special constitutional limitations applicable to federal
criminal trials, and due enforcement of some substantive requirements
as well, require keeping open and available the chance for full and
complete defense in the criminal trial itself.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

321 U. S.

jurisdiction to consider such increase." In a proceeding pursuant
to a sliding scale arrangement authorized by the local law, the
Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia granted an
increase in the rates of a public utility. The Director of Economic Stabilization was permitted to intervene, but only for the
purpose of adducing evidence as to the inflationary effect of the
proposed increase, and no such evidence was offered. Held:
1. By the Emergency Price Control Act, as amended, Congress
did not intend to prohibit local regulatory authorities from permitting any increase in utility rates which was not shown to be
necessary to prevent actual hardship. P. 498.
2. Upon the record, the Commission, in refusing to enlarge the
scope of the proceeding and to reexamine the basis of the sliding
scale arrangement, did not deny the Director a fair hearing.
P. 499.
3. Upon the issues as properly limited by the Commission, the
Director was afforded opportunity for a full hearing. P. 500.
137 F. 2d 547, affirmed.
CERTIOARmI, 320 U. S. 730, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 48 F. Supp. 703, which set aside an order of
the Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia authorizing an increase in the rates of a public utility
company.

Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Richard H. Field and HarryR. Booth were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Stoddard M. Stevens, Jr., with whom Messrs. E.
Barrett Prettyman, C. Oscar Berry, and John C. Bruton
were on the brief, for the Washington Gas Light Co.; and
Mr. Richmond B. Keech, with whom Messrs. Vernon E.
West and Lloyd B. Harrison were on the brief, for the
Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia,-respondents.
Mr. John H. Connaughton filed a brief on behalf of
the Federation of Citizens' Associations, as amicus curzae,
urging affirmance.

VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
489

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

Certiorari was granted in this case, at the instance of the
Director of Economic Stablization and the Administrator,
Office of Price Administration, of the United States, to review a rate order of the Public Utilities Commission of the
District of Columbia. The application and effect of the
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942,' and the Act of
October 2, 1942, are involved.
The petitioners, who were intervenors before the Commission, appealed from its order to the District Court of the
District of Columbia, which set aside the order as arbitrary
and illegal.' The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed the District Court.' Understanding of
the questions presented requires a detailed statement of
their historical background.
The Commission was created, and its powers and duties
defined, by Act of Congress in 1913, supplemented in 1926,
1935, and 1939.1 References will be to the District of Columbia Code, 1940 edition. The statutes require public
utilities within the District to furnish safe and adequate
facilities, just and reasonable service, at reasonable, just
and nondiscriminatory rates, and to obey the lawful orders
of the Commission (§ 43-301). There are detailed provisions respecting rates and depreciation (§ 43-315). For
the purpose of its functions, the Commission is directed to
value "the property of every public utility within the District of Columbia actually used and useful for the convenience of the public at the fair value thereof at the time of
said valuation." (§ 43-306.) Nothing in the statute is to
156 Stat. 23.

'.56 Stat. 765.
F. Supp. 703.
4 137 F. 2d 547.
348
5

c. 150, 37 Stat. 974; c. 8, 44 Stat. 920; c. 742, 49 Stat. 882; c. 40,
53 Stat. 569. D. C. Code, 1940 Ed., Tit. 43 §§ 101-1006.

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

be "taken to prohibit a public utility, with the consent of
the Commission, from providing a sliding scale of rates and
dividends according to what is commonly known as the
Boston sliding scale, or other financial device that may be
practicable and advantageous to the parties interested."
But no such arrangement is lawful until found by the Commission, after investigation, to be reasonable, just, and not
inconsistent with the purposes of the Act. Such arrangement must operate under the supervision and regulation of
the Commission, may be altered and amended, and may
be terminated by the Commission (§ 43-317). Usual
powers to fix rates, charges, and make rules and regulations
are conferred (§ 43-411). The Commission may make
rules and regulations to govern its proceedings and to regulate the mode and manner of investigations and hearings
before it (§ 43-402). Appeal from its orders is authorized,
and the scope of review defined (§§ 43-705 to 43-706).
Pursuant to its authority, the Commission initiated in
1931 and concluded in 1935 a proceeding for the valuation
of the property of the Washington Gas Light Company,
at an expense of some $750,000, and arrived at a depreciated rate base as of 1932. It then entered upon a further
inquiry as to rates. After this had lasted some time it
approved and adopted a sliding scale arrangement, which
involved a rate base, to be adjusted annually by adding net
property additions at cost, a rate of return, and a rate of
accrual to retirement reserve, in the light of which the
rates of the company were to be adjusted annually. It
found that the plan was practical and would be advantageous to all parties interested. This plan calls for an
annual determination of the rate of return earned during
the "test year," and of the amount available for rate
increase or decrease for the succeeding "rate year," and
schedules and regulations to accomplish such increase or
decrease. Such determination is to be made after public

VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
489

Opinion of the Court.

notice and opportunity for hearing. The plan defines a
rate year as "the twelve months' period from September
1st to August 31st, inclusive," and the test year as "the
twelve months' period ending . . . June 30th preceding
the rate year." At the inception of the plan, rates were
reduced by some $800,000 annually, and subsequent
annual hearings and -determinations resulted in rate
reductions in each year after 1935, except in 1937 and 1941,
when no changes were made.
The duration of the system was not prescribed but in
its order the Commission stated that it construed the statute to permit a termination upon reasonable notice, and
found that ninety days' written notice of termination by
Commission or Company would be reasonable.
March 20, 1942, the Commission issued its order of investigation in conformity with the sliding scale arrangement. After preliminary investigation by its agents and
the representatives of the company, the Commission, pursuant to statutory requirement, issued, on July 21, 1942,
notice of hearing as to rates, charges, and regulations
which were to become effective September 1, 1942, in accordance with the sliding-scale arrangement. The Price
Administrator was given leave to intervene and was represented at a prehearing conference and at all hearings,
and his counsel was permitted to cross-examine witnesses
and to offer testimony. These began August 18 and continued on August 19, September 4, 8, 11, and 14, and closed
on the last-named date. The Commission stated that it
would welcome testimony with relation to the aims and
purposes of the Office of Price Administration during the
national emergency and the relation of those aims and
purposes to the proceedings, and expressed the hope that
the Administrator, as intervenor, would develop testimony along lines which would enable the Commission to
determine whether an increase should be granted in view

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

of the national emergency. The Administrator's counsel
offered evidence, cross-examined witnesses, argued and
filed a brief.
On application of other parties, the proceedings were
reopened and further hearing had September 30th.
Counsel for the Administrator participated and filed a
second brief. The hearings were again closed, and, October 13, the Commission issued its findings, opinion and
order.
The petitioners' standing in the proceedings deserves
notice. Section 302 (c) of the Emergency Price Control
Act of 19428 provides: "Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the regulation of . . . rates charged by
any common carrier or other public utility." I The admission of the Administrator as intervenor was,
therefore,
not pursuant to statute but was governed by the Commission's rules. The Commission had provided for intervention in its rules. Rule 7.3 is: "The Commission may
grant or deny a petition for leave to intervene, or may
grant the petition upon such conditions and limitations
as it may prescribe." Rule 7.5 is: "The granting of a petition to intervene shall not have the effect of changing or
enlarging the issues in the proceeding, except where such
change or enlargement is expressly requested in the petition and is expressly granted by the Commission after opportunity for hearing upon the question has been afforded
all other parties."
After final submission, and before promulgation of the
Commission's order, the Emergency Price Control Act was
amended by the Act of October 2, 1942, which, while prohibiting the President from suspending that portion of the
original Act exempting public utilities from the scope of
the statute, provided: "That no common carrier or other
656 Stat. 36,50 U. S. C. § 942 (c).
7 Compare Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144.

VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
489

495

Opinion of the Court.

public utility shall make any general increase in its rates
or charges which were in effect on September 15, 1942,
unless it first gives thirty days notice to the President, or
such agency as he may designate, and consents to the
timely intervention by such agency before the federal,
state, or municipal authority having jurisdiction to consider such increase." 50 U. S. C., Supp. III, § 961.
On the showing of the Commission's staff, the company
would have been entitled, under the sliding scale, to an
increase in rates of $324,718. The increase approved by
the Commission was $201,424, effective September 1, 1942.
In its order, however, the Commission directed the company's attention to the provisions of the Act of October 2,
1942, and quoted its language. Accordingly the company, October 14, 1942, served notice upon the Director of
Economic Stabilization, who had been designated for the
purpose by the President, of the proposed increase in rates
together with a copy of the Commission's order, and later
consented to his intervention. The court below has found
that the requisite notice and consent to intervention was
given by the company in accordance with the Act.
Counsel who had participated in all the prior proceedings for the Administrator filed with the Commission October 19 a petition in the name of the Administrator, and
on behalf of the Director, asking that the Commission vacate its order and reopen the proceedings to allow the Director to intervene. The Commission reopened the proceeding and set a hearing for November 2 "for the purpose of receiving from the Office of Price Administration,
on behalf of the Director of Economic Stabilization, additional evidence relating to the inflationary effect, if any,
of the increase in rates authorized by Order No. 2401, and
intervention is granted for such purpose." When the reopened proceedings came on for hearing, the same counsel who had theretofore participated in behalf of the Administrator appeared before the Commission, offered no

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

witnesses, but renewed a motion previously filed that the
proceeding be reopened "without restriction as to the type
of evidence to be presented" and that the Commission
vacate its order. The motion was denied, the Commission announcing that it was ready to receive evidence in
accordance with the order reopening the proceeding. The
petitioners offered no evidence. On being asked whether
they had any testimony to present in accordance with
the order to reopen the proceedings, they asked for a continuance so that they might consult their associates. The
request was granted. On November 4, counsel recalled a
witness for further examination but offered no other evidence. The proceedings were then closed for the third
time without the offer of any testimony relating to the
national economic policy developed under the Emergency
Price Control Act as amended "and the effect thereon of
increase in rates or charges of common carriers or other
public utilities."
The Commission reconsidered the record and the testimony and, November 9, issued its order in which it reviewed the proceedings and found that the evidence adduced failed to show that the rates authorized by order
No. 2401 were unduly inflationary. It denied the Director's petition to vacate the order. Thereafter the company put the new rates into effect as of November 16th.
On appeal by the petitioners, the District Court held that
the action of the Commission, in the light of the record,
was arbitrary and illegal, and vacated the order. The
Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the Commission
had afforded petitioners full opportunity for a hearing
upon any question which, under the law and the rules of
the Commission, was open in the proceeding and that it
was not arbitrary or illegal for the Commission, on the
record made, to deny the abandonment of the sliding-scale
plan and the prosecution of an entirely new rate investigation involving fair value, depreciation, rate of return,

VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
489

Opinion of the Court.

and other elements commonly considered in such an
investigation.
The petitioners seek vacation of the order on the ground
that the Commission denied them a full and fair hearing.
This contention is based upon the substantive contention
that under the Acts of January 30 and October 2, 1942,
they were entitled to demand that the Commission enlarge the scope of the hearing and convert the inquiry into
one whether an increase of rates was necessary to the
company to prevent hardship. The Commission, on
the other hand, insists that it was entitled to conduct the
proceedings in accordance with its statutory powers as
they existed prior to 1942, and, at most, accord the petitioners a full hearing as to the effect of any order in its
relation to inflation in the war emergency. Thus it appears that the controversy is essentially one between two
governmental agencies as to whether the powers of the
one or the other are preponderant in the circumstances.
In view of the petitioners' insistence that they were entitled, in effect, to control and direct the inquiry without
regard to the statutory powers of the Commission, we
shall first examine the extent of the authority conferred
upon petitioners by Congress.
The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, while it gives
the Administrator power over prices of "commodities,"
which are not generally regulated by public authority, specifically and expressly withholds from the Administrator
jurisdiction over public utility rates. And, as we have
noted, the Stabilization Act of October 2,1942, did not alter
this prohibition but required merely that no utility should
generally increase rates in effect September 15, 1942, unless it first gave thirty days' notice to the President or his
representative and consented to the timely intervention of
that representative before the federal, state, or municipal
authority having jurisdiction to consider the increase.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

It is not clear that this language confers a right of intervention. The bill as passed by the Senate contained a
provision that there should be no increase in utility rates
unless they were approved by the President. The House
refused to concur, with the result that only the language
now contained in the proviso appeared in the bill. The
assertion that, while the Price Administrator or the Director may present his views to the regulatory body, "he had
nothing to say about its decision," was made and not contradicted on the Senate floor in discussion of the conference
report. Evidently Congress intended to grant the Administrator plenary control over commodity prices, since
they generally were not the subject of local regulation, but
in both the original Act and the amendment, as this Court
has recently said in Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, supra,
was careful "to avoid paralyzing or extinguishing local institutions." Thus it limited the right of the Executive to
notice by the utility and the utility's consent that the
Executive might be heard by the regulatory body having
final authority in the premises.
If the petitioners were admitted as intervenors by a
state commission, or by the District Commission, which is
a respondent here, they might, of course, be admitted to
participation in the proceeding upon reasonable terms;
and one of the most usual procedural rules is that an intervenor is admitted to the proceeding as it stands, and
in respect of the pending issues, but is not permitted to enlarge those issues or compel an alteration of the nature of
the proceeding. To this effect was the Commission's rule
on the subject. It would seem then that, in the absence of
clear legislative mandate to the contrary, the petitioners
should not possess greater rights than other intervenors.
This the petitioners deny. They say that, notwithstanding the absence of any categorical enactment, the
general purpose of the original Act and its supplement

VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
489

Opinion of the Court.

show that Congress intended to prohibit state and local
regulatory authorities from permitting any increase in utility rates which was not shown to be necessary to prevent
actual hardship. We are asked then, not only to revise
the views expressed in Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles,
supra, as to the scope of the Acts, but to infer from a general expression of congressional policy, the limitation of
existing powers conferred by law on regulatory commissions throughout the nation, both state and federal, and
the endowment of a different federal agency with new and
superior rights and powers.' This we are unable to do.
The other contention of the petitioners stems from their
view as to the effect of the Emergency Price Control Act
and the Stabilization Act. They insisted below that they
were denied a fair hearing because the Commission refused,
in the current proceeding, to alter and enlarge the scope
and the character of the inquiry. It will be remembered
that, under the Commission's existing order, a termination
of the sliding scale arrangement required ninety days'
written notice. There was no application of any rate
payer or any purpose of the Commission in the spring of
1942 to abrogate the arrangement. On the contrary, the
Conunission gave the required notice for the usual annual
adjustment under the plan; and, after the necessary investigations by its agents, gave notice of hearing with
respect to such adjustment. At that point, and at a time
when no notice of increase of rates was required by any Act
of Congress, the Administrator, upon his application was
permitted to intervene in the proceeding.
In his petition, and at the hearings, he asserted and
reiterated that he had the right to go into the propriety of
the rate base, the operating expenses, including depreciation expenses, taxes, and rate of return, summarizing his
8Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, supra; Yonkers v. United States,
320 U. S. 685.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

demand as "a full and complete inquiry for the purpose
of determining what are fair and reasonable rates . . ."
The petitioners now insist that their desire was limited to
examination of certain factors involved in the sliding scale.
But the courts below did not so understand. The District
Court, which sustained the appeal, said: "The Commission
was requested to reconsider the basic principle of the sliding-scale arrangement . . ." The Court of Appeals said
"the Price Administrator departed from the field committed to his care and demanded that the Commission suspend
the application of the sliding scale, and reexamine its basis
in a complete investigation of all the elements that enter
into the determination of a utility rate by a regulatory
body." These characterizations of the Administrator's
contentions before the Commission are supported by the
record.
If we consider the petitioners' present position we find
that the Commission heard all evidence offered, and says
it weighed it. The Administrator urged that the straightline method of depreciation embodied in the sinking fund
plan must be discarded in favor of a sinking fund method
under the force of decisions of this Court, a position unsupported by our cases, and evidence was offered to show
the result which would ensue the substitution. Some
testimony was adduced as to rate of return, and the Commission's report shows this was considered. In short, if
the inquiry was limited to the issues comprehended in the
Commission's order of investigation, the petitioners were
afforded every opportunity for a full hearing. On the
subject respecting which the petitioners were especially
competent to enlighten the Commission,--namely the inflationary effect of a rate increase of 2.28% for one year,
amounting, on the average, to three cents per month per
customer, in the light of wage increases and increased
commodity prices and over-all conditions in the national

VINSON v. WASHINGTON GAS CO.
489

DouGis, J., dissenting.

economy,-no evidence was tendered by petitioners, in
response to repeated invitations by the Commission.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
DoUGLAs, with whom MR.JUSTICE BLAcK
and MR.JUSTICE MURPrY concur, dissenting.
This case goes hand in hand with Davies Warehouse Co.
v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144. That decision expanded the
"public utility" exemption in the Emergency Price Control Act to include a wide variety of enterprises. The
present decision illustrates the value of that preferred
treatment.
The Stabilization Act prohibits any "utility" from making "any general increase in its rates or charges which were
in effect on September 15, 1942" without giving the President's agent the right to intervene in the proceedings.
The present decision goes far towards making that provision ineffective. It allows the Commission so to shape
the issues of the rate proceeding as to exclude the data
most relevant to a determination of whether any rate increase should be allowed. The power of a commission to
shape the issues as it desires and to restrict the Director
of Economic Stabilization to those issues is not a power
which is apt to be neglected. The Director may of course
proclaim against rate increases. But he does not need
the right to intervene to prove that rate increases are inflationary. That is self-evident. The right to intervene,
if it is not a right to introduce relevant data bearing on the
true earnings and returns of the utility, is an empty right
indeed.
I agree that Congress did not transfer rate-making
powers from the commissions to the Director. I agree
that Congress must have contemplated that some rate
increases might take place or else it would have treated
MR.JUSTICE

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

321 U. S.

the whole problem quite differently. But I find not the
slightest indication that the Director was to be denied
a full hearing. And I do not see how a full hearing could
be accorded unless he was given the opportunity to establish, if he could, that the case under consideration showed
no real hardship, that wartime demands were not causing
the company to suffer, that its financial integrity and its
ability to render service remained unimpaired, that its
property was not being confiscated, that it was not being
treated unfairly as compared with other companies.
We are told that this company has an inflated rate base
of some $1,000,000. We are told that its excessive charges
for depreciation expense were over $225,000 a year as compared with the rate increase of about $200,000 a year. We
are told that a full hearing would have disclosed that the
company was in fact earning more than 6-%. I do not
know what the evidence would show. But an offer of
proof in a rate case could not be more relevant.
I believe, moreover, that when Congress halted general rate increases and gave the Director a right to intervene, it did not sanction rate increases regardless of need
and regardless of inflationary effect. I think it meant
to make utility commissions at least partial participants
in the war against inflation and gave them a sector of the
front to control. Though it did not remove the established standards for rate-making, I do not think it intended
utility commissions to proceed in disregard of the requirements of emergency price control and unmindful of
the dangers of general rate increases. To the contrary,
I think Congress intended that there should be as great
an accommodation as possible between the old standards
and the new wartime necessities. The failure of the Commission to make that accommodation is best illustrated
perhaps by its treatment of taxes. The Commission allowed the company to deduct as operating expenses all
income taxes up to and including 31%. That this amount

BOWLES v. WILLINGHAM.
Syllabus.

489

includes wartime taxes is evident from the fact that the
highest corporate tax rate which prevailed from 1936 to
1939 was 19%. We all know that the extraordinary expenditures incurred for the defense of the nation started
with the Revenue Act of 1940. It has been accepted practice to deduct income taxes as well as other taxes from
operating expenses in determining rates for public utilities.
Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388, 399.
But this is war, not business-as-usual. When income taxes
are passed on to consumers, the inflationary effect is
obvious. And it is self-evident that the ability to pass
present wartime income taxes on to others. is a remarkable
privilege indeed.
BOWLES, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, v. WILLINGHAI

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 464. Argued January 7i 10, 1944.-Decided March 27, 1944.
1. Under § 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 and
§ 24 (1) of the Judicial Code, and in view of § 204 (d) of the Act,
a federal district court in a suit by the Administrator has authority
to enjoin a proceeding in a state court to restrain issuance by the
Administrator of rent orders; and § 265 of the Judicial Code,
forbidding federal courts to enjoin proceedings in state courts, is
inapplicable. P. 510.
(a) Congress may determine whether the federal courts should
have exclusive jurisdiction of controversies which arise under the
Constitution and laws of the United States and which are therefore
within the judicial power of the United States as defined in Art.
III, § 2 of the Constitution, or whether they should exercise that
jurisdiction concurrently with the courts of the States. P. 511.
(b) The authority of Congress to withhold from state courts
all jurisdiction of controversies arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States includes the power to restrict the oc.
casions when that jurisdiction may be invoked. P. 512.
57 6281--;-4,4---36

