OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

B. F. GOODRICH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 158. Argued January 3, 4, 1944.-Decided January 31, 1944.

The proviso of § 9 (a) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act which, in
respect of the "processing tax" paid on processed cotton, authorizes a
deduction from the manufacturers' excise tax imposed by § 602 of
the Revenue Act of 1932, is not to be construed as authorizing a
deduction also in respect of the tax on floor stocks levied by § 16 of
the Agricultural Adjustment Act. P. 129.
135 F. 2d 456, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 722, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for the Government, 48 F. Supp. 453, in a suit
brought by the taxpayer for a tax refund.

Mr. William H. Bemis, with whom Mr. HowardF. Burns
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Valentine Brookes, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Warren F.
Wattles were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit for refund of a portion of the manufacturers' excise tax on tires paid by the Pacific Goodrich
Rubber Company, petitioner's wholly owned subsidiary,
pursuant to § 602 of the Revenue Act of 1932.1 The District Court's judgment was for the Government, 48 F.
Supp. 453, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
1 "See. 602. Tax on Tires and Inner Tubes.

"There is hereby imposed upon the following articles sold by the
manufacturer, producer, or importer, a tax at the following rates:
"(1) Tires wholly or in part of rubber, 21/4 cents a pound on total
weight . . ." Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, 261.

B. F. GOODRICH CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

135 F. 2d 456. Certiorari was granted on a petition which
alleged that the Circuit Court's affirmance rested on its
erroneous decision of procedural questions. We were
asked in the petition to pass upon these issues: (1)
Whether there was a material variance between the
claim which had been denied by the Commissioner and
that sued upon in the District Court. See R. S. § 3226,
as amended; United States v. Andrews, 302 U. S. 517.
(2) Whether, if there was such a variance, it had been,
or could have been, waived by the Government in the proceedings in the District Court. See United States v.
GarbuttOil Co., 302 U. S. 528. Argument at the bar and
in the briefs of both parties was not, however, limited to
these narrow procedural problems but also dealt with the
merits of the claim for refund. This argument has disclosed that, regardless of the procedural questions, the
judgment in favor of the Government can be supported
on the ground that under the controlling tax statutes
petitioner's claim has no merit. See Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U. S. 238, 245. We pass at once to a consideration of that decisive issue.
Petitioner claims it is entitled to the tax refund under
provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment Act.2 Section
9 (a) of that Act authorized the imposition of a "processing tax" on the "first domestic processing" of basic agricultural commodities, including cotton. A proviso at the
end of the section granted to manufacturers of certain
products, including tires, a deduction from the excise tax
on those products because of the payment of the "processing tax" on the cotton used in them.3 Another sec2

3

48

Stat. 31.

"Provided, That upon any article upon which a manufacturers'
sales tax is levied under the authority of the Revenue Act of 1932 and
which manufacturers' sales tax is computed on the basis of weight,
such manufacturers' sales tax shall be computed on the basis of the
weight of said finished article less the weight of the processed cotton

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

tion of the Act, § 16, imposed a different tax, equal to the
processing tax, on articles held in floor stocks on a certain
date for sale or other disposition which articles had been
"processed wholly or in chief value" from a basic agricultural commodity.4 This latter section did not grant
any deduction from the manufacturers' excise tax because of the floor stocks tax. Nevertheless when the Pacific Goodrich Rubber Company computed its manufacturers' excise tax on tires it claimed deduction on account
of the tax which it had paid on floor stocks of cotton
fabrics. The Commissioner disallowed the deduction on
the ground that, while deductions were allowable for cotton on which a "processing tax" had been paid under § 9
(a), they were not allowable for cotton on which a tax on
floor stocks had been paid under § 16. This suit is based
on the premise that the deduction proviso of § 9 (a) should
be read into § 16.
contained therein on which a processing tax has been paid." 48 Stat.
36. Although the coverage of this proviso was not specifically limited to the excise tax on tires, the proviso came into § 9 (a) as a
Senate floor amendment introduced "to avoid an unduly burdensome
tax on automobile tires." 77 Cong. Rec. 1959. The view was expressed on the floor of the Senate that, except for the proposed
amendment, the cotton used in tires would be twice taxed by weight;
once by the processing tax on cotton, and again by the excise tax
on tires. 77 Cong. Rec. 1960. See Note 1, supra.
4 Section 16, entitled "Floor Stocks," read in part as follows: "See.
16. (a) Upon the sale or other disposition of any article processed
wholly or in chief value from any commodity with respect to which
a processing tax is to be levied, that on the date the tax first takes
effect . . . with respect to the commodity, is held for sale or other
disposition ... by any person, there shall be made a tax adjust-

ment as follows:
"(1) Whenever the processing tax first takes effect, there shall be
levied .

.

. a tax to be paid by such person equivalent to the amount

of the processing tax which would be payable with respect to the commodity from which processed if the processing had occurred on such
date." 48 Stat. 40.

B. F. GOODRICH CO. v. U. S.
126

Opinion of the Court.

Within the literal meaning of the Agricultural Adjustment Act a tax on floor stocks was not a "processing tax,"
and therefore the proviso in § 9 (a) which spoke only of a
"processing tax" on cotton was not literally applicable to
the tax on floor stocks imposed under § 16. The tax on
floor stocks, though complementing the processing tax, was
not a tax upon the "processing" of an agricultural commodity but upon articles already processed from such a
commodity and held for sale or other disposition on the
date when the processing tax on the commodity went into
effect. Although the literal language of the Act does not
authorize the deduction which it claims, petitioner contends that the purpose of Congress to relieve tire manufacturers from so-called "double taxation" on cotton contained
in tires will be defeated I unless we read into § 16 the pro-

viso of §9 (a).
With this contention we cannot agree. In the form in
which the Agricultural Adjustment Act was introduced in
Congress, neither § 9 (a), which authorized the "processing
tax," nor § 16, which authorized the floor stocks tax, contained a proviso granting a deduction from the manufacturers' excise tax.6 But § 16 of the bill did provide that
under specified circumstances taxpayers subject to the
floor stocks tax would be entitled to a tax adjustment in the
nature of a refund.' When the bill was under consideration in the Senate, § 9 (a) was amended by adding a pro"See Note 3, supra.
6Senate Hearings on H. R. 3835, 73d Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1, 3, 6.
7Section 16 (a) (2) of the original bill, subsequently enacted without amendment, provided that, "Whenever the processing tax is wholly
terminated, there shall be refunded to such person a sum ... in an
amount equivalent to the processing tax with respect to the commodity
from which processed." In reporting on § 16 the House Committee on
Agriculture stated that, "A corresponding refund is provided on floor
stocks when the processing tax finally terminates." H. R. Rep. No. 6,
73d Cong., 1st Sess., 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

321 U. S.

viso 8 which authorized an adjustment on account of the
"processing tax" in the nature of a deduction from the
manufacturers' excise tax. Thus the bill as finally enacted
provided one type of adjustment for the floor stocks tax in
§ 16 and a different type of adjustment for the processing
tax in § 9 (a). We have been pointed to nothing in the
Act as a whole or its legislative history which shows that
Congress considered these separate methods of adjusting
the two taxes insufficient to prevent the burden of "double
taxation" on the tire manufacturers so far as Congress
wanted to prevent it. We cannot say, therefore, that the
expressed intention of Congress is defeated by a literal interpretation of the Act which declines to read the proviso
of § 9 (a) into § 16.1 The judgment of the Circuit Court
is accordingly
Affirmed.

8 The proviso, originally introduced as an amendment to § 9 (a),
authorized an adjustment to be computed by deducting from the manufacturers' excise taxes on certain articles, including tires, "an amount
equal to the processing tax paid on the cotton used therein." 77 Cong.
Rec. 1959. Subsequently the method of computing the permissible
deduction was altered. See Conference Report accompanying H. R.
3835, printed as H. R. Report No. 100, 73d Cong., 1st Sess., 3; see also
Note 3, supra.
9 Cf. Moore v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 141 F. 2d 328.

