DOYLE v. MITCHELL BROTHERS CO.
175.

179

Syllabus.

Both the federal and state courts in Oklahoma have for
several years applied the view here expressed. Bell v.
Cook, 192 Fed. Rep. 597, 604-605; Yarbrough"v. Spalding, 31 0klahoma, 806; Lawless v. Raddis, 36 Oklahoma,
616.
It hardly requires statement that the court rightly interpreted the entry of Yekcha,'s enrollment, before quoted.
It neither names nor says anything about either parent,
but does state very plainly that he is an Indian of the
half-blood.
Decree affirmed.

DOYLE, COLLECTOR OF IN T ERNAL REVENUE,
v. MITCHELL BROTHERS COMPANY.
-CERTIORAPI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 492. Argued March 4, 5, 6, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
The purpose of the Corporation Tax Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36
Stat. 11, 112, ยง 38, is not to tax property as such, or the mere conversion of pioperty, but to tax the conduct of the business of corporations organized for profit by a measure based upon the gainful
returns from their business operations and property from the time
the act took effect..
The act employs the term "income" in its natural and obvious sense,
as importing.something distinct from principal or capital, and con-'
veying the idea of gain or increase arising from corporate activities.
While a conversion of capital may result in income, in the sense of the
act, where the proceeds inlude an increment of. value, such is not
the case where the increment existed when the act took effect.
In distinguishing preexisting capital from income subject to the act,
it is a mere question of method whether a deduction be made from
gross receipts in ascertaining gross income, or from gross income, by
way of depreciation, in ascertaining net income.
Before the Corporation Tax Act, a lumber company bought timber land

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

to supply its mills, and after the act it manufactured part of the
timber into lumber, which it sold. Held, that the amount by which
the timber so used had increased in value between the date of purchase and the effective date of the.act was not an element of income
to be considered in computing the tax.
The 1irinciple upon which the removal of minerals by mining companies
has been held not to produce a depreciation within the meaning of
the act is inapplicable to the case of a company efigaged in the business of manufacturing and selling lumber.from tinber supplied by its
own timber lands, and which sells the lands incidentally after the
timber is removed.
The income is to be determined from the actual facts, as to which the
corporate books are only evidential.
235 Fed. Rep. 686, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Mark Norris, with whom Mr. Oscar E. Waer was
on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America,
as amicus curi.
MR. JusTiCE Pi=mrn delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover from the Collector adclitional taxes assessed against the respondent under the
Corporation Excise Tax Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36
Stat. 11, 112, ยง 38, and paid under protest. The District
Court gave judgment for the plaintiff, which was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals (225 Fed. Rep. 437;
235 Fed. Rep. 686), and the case comes here on certiorari.
It was submitted at the same time with several other
cases decided this day, arising under the same act.

DOYLE v. MITCHELL BROTHERS CO.
179.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are as follows: Plaintiff is a lumber manufacturing corporation which operates its own mills,
manufactures into lumber therein its own stumpage,
sells the lumber in the market, and from these sales and
sales of various by-products makes its profits, declares
its dividends, and creates its surplus. It sells its stumpage
lands, so-called, after the timber is cut and removed. Its
sole business is as described; it is not a real estate trading
corporation. Plaintiff acquired certain timber lands at
its organization in 1903 Pnd paid for them at a valuation
approximately equivalent to $20 per acre. Owing to
increases in the market price of stumpage the market
value of the timber land, on December 31, 1908, had
become approximately $40 per acre.' The company made
no entry upon its books representing this increase, but
each year entered -as a profit the difference between the
original cost of the timber cut and the sums received for.
the manufactured product, less the cost of manufacture.
After the passage of the Excise Tax Act, and preparatory
to making a return of income for the year 1909,, the company revalued its timber stumpage as of December 31,
1908, at approximately $40 per acre. The good faith and
accuracy of this valuation are not in question, but the
figures representing it never were entered in the corporate
books.
Under the act the company made a return for each ofthe years 1909, 1910, 1911, 1912, and ii each instance
deducted from its gross receipts the market value, as of
December 31, 1908, of the stumpage cut and converted
during the year covered by the tax. There appears to
have been no change in its market value during these
years.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue having alThe valuations were based upon the quantity of standing timber,
at certain prices per thousand feet for the different varieties. The
approximate acreage equivalent is employed for convenience.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

lowed a deduction of the cost of the timber in 1903 and
refused to allow the difference between that cost and the
fair market value of the timber on December 31, 1908,
the question is whether this difference (made the basis of
the additional taxes) was income for the years in which
it was converted into money, within the meaning of the
act.
Other items are involved in the case, arising from the
sale of certain stump lands, certain by-products, and a
parcel of real estate, but they raise no different question
from that which arises upon the valuation of the stumpage, and need not be further mentioned.
The act became effective January 1, 1909, an=4 provided for the -annual payment by every domestic corporation "organized for profit and having a capital stock
represented by shares" of an excise tax "equivalent to
one per centum uponthe entire net. income ovef and
above five thousand dollars received -byit from all sources
during such year," with exceptions not now material. It
declared that such net income should be ascertained by
deducting from the gross income received within the year
from all sources the expenses paid within the year out of
income in the maintenance and operation of business and
property, including rentals and the like; losses sustained
within the year and not compensated by insurance or
otherwise, including a- reasonable allowance- for depreciation of property; interest paid within the year to a limited extent; taxes; and amounts -received within the year
as dividends upon stock of other cd46orations subject to
the same tax. In the case of a corporation organized
under the laws of a foreign country; the net income was
to be ascertained by takifng into account the gross income
-received within the year "from business transacted and
capital invested -within-the United States and-any of its
Territories, Alaska, and the District of Columbia" with
- deductions.. for expenses of maintenance and operation,

DOYLE v,.MITCHELL BROTHERS CO.
179.

183

Opinion of the Court.

business losses, interest, ,and taxes, all referable to that.
portion of its business transacted and capital invested
within the United States, etc.
An examination of these and other provisions of the
act makes it plain that the legislative purpose was not to
tax property as such, or the mere conversion of property,
but to tax the conduct of the business of corporations
organized for profit by a measure based upon the gainfulreturns from their business operations and property from
the time the act took efect. As was pointed out-in Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 145, the tax was imposed
((not upon the franchises of the corporation irrespective
of their use in business, nor upon the property of the
corporation, but upon the doing of corporate or insurance
business and with respect to the carrying on thereof;"
an exposition that has been consistently adhered to.
McCoach v. Minehill & Schuylkill Haven Railway Co.,
228 U. S. 295, 300; United States v. Whitridge, 231 U. S.
144, 147; Anderson v. Forty-two Broadway Co., 239 U. S.
69, 72.
When we come to apply the act to gains acquired
through an increase in the value of capital assets acquired
before and converted into money after the taking effect
of the act, questions of difficulty are encountered. The
suggestion that the entire proceeds of the conversion
should be still. treated as the same capital, changed only
in form and containing no element of income although
including an increment of value, we reject at once as
inconsistent with the general purpose of the act. Selling
for profit is too familiar a business transaction to permit
us to suppose that it was intended to be omitted from
consideration in an act for taxing the doing of business
in corporate form upon the basis of the income received
'from all sources."
Starting from this point, the learned Solicitor General
has submitted an elaborate argument in behalf of the

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion-of the Court.

247 U. S.

Government, based in part upon theoretical definitions
of "cfapital," "income,") "profits," etc., and in part upon
expressions quoted from our opinions in Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 147, and Anderson v. Forty-two
Broadway Co., 239 U. S. 69, 72, with the object of showing that a conversion of capital into money always produces income, and that for the purposes of the present
case the words "gross income" are equivalent to "gross
receipts"; the insistence being that the entire proceeds
of a conversion of capital assets should be treated as
gross income., and that by deducting the mere cost of
such assets we arrive at net income. The cases referred
to throw little light upon -the present matter, and the
expressions quoted from the :opinions were employed by
us with reference to questions wholly.remote from Any
that is here presented.
The formula that the entire receipts derived from a conversion of capital assets after deducting cost value must
be treated as net income, so far a's it is applied to a conversion of assets acquired before the.act took effect and
so as to tax as income any increased value that accrued
before that date, finds no support in either the letter or
the spirit of the act, and brings the former into incongruity with the latter. If the gross recdipts upon such
a conversion are to be treated as gross income, what
authority have we for deducting either the cost or the
previous market value of the assets converted in order
to arrive at net income? The deductions specifically
authorized are only such as expenses of maintenance and
operation of the business and property, rentals, uncompensated losses, depreciation, interest, and taxes. There
- is no express provision that even allows a merchant to
deduct the cost of the goods that he sells.
Yet it is plain, we think, that by the true intent and
meaning of the act the entire proceeds of a mere conversion of capital assets were not to be treated as income.

DOYLE v.. MITCHELL BROTHERS CO.
179.

'Opinion of the Court.,

Whatever difficulty there may be about a precise and
scientific definition of "income," it imports, as-used here,
something entirely 'distinct from pincipal or capital
either as a subject of taxation or as a measure of the tax;
conveying rather the idea of gain or increase arising from
corporate activities. As was said in Straton's Independence v. How.ert, 231 U. S. 399,- 415: "(Income may be
defined as the gain derived from canital. from labor, or
from both combined."
Understanding the term in this natual and*obvious
sense, it cannot be said that a conversion of capital
assets invariably produces income. If sold at less than
cost, it produces rather loss or outgo. Nevertheless, in
many if not in most cases there results a gain that properly may be accounted as a part of the "gross income"
received "from all-sources"; and by applying to this the
authorized deductions we arrive at "net income." In
order to determine whether there has been gain or loss,
and the amount of the gain, if any, we must withdraw
from the gross proceeds an amount sufficient to restore
the capital value that existed at the commencement of
the period under consideration.
This has been recognized from the beginning by the
administrative officers of the Government. Shortly after
the passage of the act, and before the time (March 1,
1910) for making the first returns of income, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury, pipmulgated Regulations
No. 31, under date December 3,1909, for the guidance
of collectors and other subordinate officers in the performance of their duties under the act. These prescribed,
with respect to manufacturing companies, that gross
income should consist of the difference between the
price received for the goods as sold and the cost of such
goods as manufactured; cost to be "ascertained by an
addition of a charge to the account of the cost of goods as

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

manufactured during the year of the sum of the inventory
at beginning of the year and a credit to the account of
the sum of the inventory at the end of the year." In
the case of mercantile companies, gross income was to
be the "amount ascertained through inventory, or its
equivalent, which shows the difference between the
price received for goods, sold and the cost bf goods purchased during the year, with an addition of a charge to
the account of the sum of the. inventory at beginning of
the year and a credit to the account of the sum of the
inventory at the end of the year." And as to miscellaneous corporations, gross income was to be "the gross
revenue derived from the operation and management of
the business and property of the corporation," with all
income derived from other sources.' The matter of income arising from a profitable sale of capital assets was
dealt with specifically in such a way as to limit the tax to
income arising after the effective date of the act. This
was done by adopting the rule that an advance in value
arising during a period of years should be so adjusted
that only so much as properly was attributable to the time
subsequent to January 1, 1909, (December 31, 1908,
would have been more precise), should be subjected to
th tax.1 Subsequent treasury regulations, promulgated from time to time (T. D. 1606, larch 29, 1910,
I Extract from TreasuryRegulations No. 31, issued December 3, 1909.
Sale of capital assets.-In ascertaining income derived from the sale
of capital assets, if the assets were acquired subsequent to January 1,
1909, the difference between the selling price and the buying price shall
constitute an item of gross income to be added to or subtracted from
gross income according to whether the selling prise was greater or less'
than the buying price. If the capital assets were acquired prior to
January 1, 1909, the amount of increment or depreciation representing
the difference between the selling and buying price is to be adjusted so
as to fairly determine the proportion of the loss or gain arising subsequent to January 1, 1909, and which proportion shall be deducted from
or added to the gross income for the year in which the sale was made.

DOYLE
179.

,.

MITCHELL BROTHERS CO.
Opinion ofthe Court.

paragraphs 40, 71, 76; T. D. 1675, February 14, 1911,
paragraphs 37, 55, 75; T. D. 1742, December 15, 1911,
paragraphs 43, 62, 86, 91,) adhered to the same rule
with respect to lands bought prior to January 1, 1909,
and sold during a subsequent year, prescribing,.however,
that the profits, when not otherwise accurately determinable, should be prorated according to the time elapsed before and after the act took effect; and gave to it an application especially pertinent here, one of the regulations
reading: "The mere re noval of timber by cutting from
timber lands, unless the timber is otherwise disposed of
through sales-or plant operations, is considered simply a
change in form of assets. If said timber is disposed of
through sales or otherwise it is to be accounted for in
accordance with regulations governing disposition" of
capital- and other assets."
In our opinion these regulations correctly interpret the
act in its application to the facts of the present case.
When the act took effect, plaintiff's timber lands, with
whatever value they then possessed, were a part of its
capital assets, and subsequent change of form by conversion into money did not change the essence. Their.
increased value since purchase, as that value stood on
December 31, 1908, was not in any proper sense the result
of the operation and management of the business or property of the corporation while the act was in force. Nor is
the result altered by the mere fact that the increment
of value had not been entered upon plaintiff's books of
account. Such books are no more than evidential, being
neither indispensable nor conclusive. Thd debision must
rest upon the actual facts, which in the present case are
not in dispute.
. The plaintiff, in making up its income tax returns for
the years 1909, 1910, 1911, and 1912, deducted from its
gross receipts the admittedly accurate Valuation as of December 31, 1908, of the stumpage cut and converted dur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

ing the year covered by the tax. There having been no
change in market values during these years, the deduction
did but restore to the capital in money that which had
been withdrawn in stumpage cut, leaving the aggregate
of capital neither increased nor decreased, and leaving the
residue of the gross receipts to represent the gain realized
by the conversion, so far as that gain arose while the act
was in effect. This was in accordance with the true intent
and meaning of the act.
It may be observed that it is a mere :question of methods, not affecting the result, whether the amount necessary
to be withdrawn in order to preserve capital intact should
be deducted from-gross receipts in the process of ascertaining gross income, or should be deducted from gross income
in the form of a depreciation account in the process of

determining net income. In either case the object is to
distinguish capital previously existing from income taxable under the act.
There is only a superficial analogy between this case
and the case of an allowance claimed for depreciation of
a mining property through the removal of minerals, since
we have held that owing to the peculiar nature of mining
ptoperty its partial exhaustion attributable to the removal
of ores cannot be regarded as depreciation within the
meaning of the act. Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co.,
242 U. S. 503, 520, 524; United States v. Biwabik Mining
Co., ante, 116; Goldfield Consolidated Mines Co. v. Scott,
ante, 126.
It should be added that in this case no question is
raised as to whether, in apportioning the profits derived
from a disposition of capital assets acquired before and
converted after the act took effect, the division should be
pro rata,according to the time elapsed, or should be based
upon -n inventbry taken as of December 31, 1908.
Plaintiff; in accordance with Treasury Regulations No.
31, T. D. 1578, January 4, 1910, and T. D. 1588, January

