ERIE it. R. CO. v,. HILT.

95.

Syllabus.

prosecution, .prevented. We think, therefore, the error
in excluding the testimony cannot be said to have been
without detriment to defendants.
The court was asked to instruct the jury as in No. 133
and refused. It gave, however, a number of instructions
requested by the prosecution, some abstract, as to theextent of the police power of the State, and others directed
to the effect of possession of the drug, if found by the jury,
and its 'determination of defendants' guilt. We do not
consider it necessary to comment upon them fuither than
to say that they give emphasis to the rulings upon the
testimony offered by the defendants.

The judgment of the Superior Court is irev&eised and tho
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. HILT, AN INFANT,
BY HIS NEXT FRIEND, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THiRD CIRCUIT.
No. 846.

Argued May 3, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.

The New Jersey law providing that any person- injure ,byengine or
car while walking, standing or playing on any railroad shall be
deemed to have contributed and shall not recover from the company
(Comp. Stats., 1911, p. 4245), applies to a boy les than seven years

old.
In the absence of a decision of the state supreme court, this court inclines to follow an intermediate appellate tribunal in construing a
state statute.
When the injured child's object in reaching under a car was to recover a
plaything, held there was no basis for implying an invitation on the
part of the railroad company.
246 Fed. Rep. 800, reversed..

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Argument for Respondents.

247 U. S.

TEX case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George S. Hobart, with whom Mr. Gilbert Collins
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Raymond Dawson, with whom Mr. James J. Murphy, Mr. Edwin F. Smith and Mr. Samuel Greenstone were
on the brief, for respondents:
The statute does not apply to infants of tender years. In
Barcoliniv. Atlantic City & Shore R. R. Co., 82 N. J. L. 107,
the New Jersey Supreme Court held that the statute applied to an infant of the age of 21 months. The Court of
Errors agid Appeals (the- highest court of that State)
has never passed upon the question, and the decision of the
Supreme Court is not binding upon the federal courts.
While it may be true that the statute was passed to
prevent accidents on railroads, and to discourage the
walking, standing or playing on railroad tracks of p6rsons
who have arrived at such an age as to fully appreciate
the dangers of so doing, yet to apply the terms thereof to
infants of such tender years as to be incapable of caring
for their own safety seems harsh and inhumane, and not in
accordance with the true intent of the legislature. It has
always been the policy of the State to safeguard the life
and limb of its citizens, and particularly those too young
to take care of themselves.
While there are decisions by the courts of New Jersey
holding that one going upon the lands of another as a trespasser or mere licensee can recover from the owner only
in case of injury wilfully or wantonly inflicted, there is
no such settled rule of law established by the decisions of
the New Jersey tribunal of last resort as would be binding upon the federal courts under the circumstances of this
case. Snare & Triest Co. v. Friedman, 169 Fed. Rep. 1, 15.
The federal courts, realizing the 'inability of children
of tender years to care for themselves, and the dangers
which their impulsiveness and thoughtlessness leads them

ERIE R. R. CO. v. HILT.
97.

Argument for Respondents.

into; have refused to hold that when attracted and enticed
into a place of danger for the purpose of play, they cannot
recover for injuries received due to the owner's negligence, where the owner knew, or had reason to know,
of the custom of such children-to be at such place. Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657.
The wording of the statute plainly indicates that there
must be a voluntary action upon the part of the person
injured, accompanied by an understanding of the action
taken. Surely an idiot or insane person straying on to a
railroad track and injured by a train could not be "deemed
to have contributed to the injury sustained" by him.
See State v. Brown, 38 Kansas, 390.
.This court has held that an infant of tender years cannot be guilty of contributory negligence. How, then,
could such a onei -injured while on a railroad track, be
"deemed to have contributed to the injury sustained?"
Had the legislature intended the statute to be applicable
to such infants, it would have said so. Erie R. R. Co. v.
Swiderski, 197 Fed. Rep. 521.
For years prior to the accident such infants had been
accustomed to play in and upon the tracks at this point,
and in, upon and between railroad cars standing thereon.
Of .these facts the defendant had actual knowledge; all
of its servants working nearby knew of it, and the crew
of the train which backed into the cars where the plaintiff
was, knew of it. By permitting children of tender years
so to play upon said railroad tracks, and in, about and between said cars, the defendant impliedly invited them so to
do. Kaffe v. Milwaukee & St. Paul R. R. Co., 21 Minnesota, 207, 211; Union Paciflc R. R. Co. v. McDonald, 152
U. S. 262; Cooley on Torts, c. 10, p. 303. The defendant
could not invite the plaintiff upon its premises and then
interpose the statute as a defense to an action to recover
damages for injuries inflicted upon him by reason of its
niegligence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

Mn.

JusTIcE

247 U. S.

HoiM s delivered the opinion of 'the court.

This is an action for personal injuries caused by the
plaintiff being run over on a siding of the defendant's
railroad at Garfield, New Jersey. The plaintiff was a boy
less than seven years old and had been playing marbles
near the siding when a marble rolled under a car. The
boy tried to reach the marble with his foot and while he
was doing so the car was backed and his left leg was so
badly hurt that it-had to be cut off. A statute of New
Jersey provides that "if any person shall be injured by
an engine or car while walking, standing or playing on any
railroad,

.

.

..

such person shall be deemed to have

contributed to the injury sustained, and shall not recover
therefor any damages from the company owning or operating said railroad," with a proviso that the section shall
not apply to the crossing of a railroad at a lawful crossing.
General Railroad Law, ยง 55; Compiled Stats., 1911, p.
4?45, citing P. L. 1903, p. 673. The trial court, notwithstanding this statute, allowed the plaintiff to go'to the
jury and to obtain and keep a verdict, following such
precedents in the circuit as Erie R. R. Co. v. Swiderski,
.197 Fed. Rep. 521, and the judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 246 Fed. Rep. 800.
The ground of the decision seemingly is that the statute
does not appear beyond doubt to apply to very young
infants, although the word "playing" sufficiently indicates that it had minors in view, even if the absoluteness
of the opening phrase "any person" were not enough to
exclude, the reading inof exceptions by the Court. The
words of the-statute seem to us to require a different construction-from that adopted and they haye been given
-their full literal meaning by the Supreme Court of the
State, in the case of an infant younger than the. plaintiff.
Barcolini v. Atlantic City & Shore R.,R.Co., 82 N. J. -L.
107.. In view of the Importance of that tribunal in New

ERIE R. R. CO. r,.
HILT.
97.

101

Dissent.

Jersey, although not the highest Court in the State, we
see no reason why it should not be followed by the Courts
of the United States, even if we thought its decision more
doubtful than we do.
There is no ground for the argument that the plaintiff was invited upon the tracks. Temptation is not always
invitation. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.
v. Reich, 61 N. J. L. 635. Holbrook v. Aldrich, 168 Massachusetts, 15, 16. Romana v. Boston Elevated Ry. Co.,
218 Massachusetts, 76. In this case too the plaintiff was
not moved by the temptation, if any, offered by the cars,
but by the wish to recover his marble. Therefore it is unnecessary to consider whether an express invitation would
have affected the case, or what conclusion properly coild
be drawn from the fact that children had played in thatneighborhood before and sometimes had been ordered
away. The statute seemingly adopts in an unqualified
form the policy of the common-law as understood we believe in New Jersey, Massachusetts, and some other States,
that while a landowner cannot intentionally injure of lay
traps for a person coming upon his premises without license, he is not bound to provide for the trespasser's safety
from other undisclosed dangers, or to interrupt, his own
otherwise lawful occupations to provide for the chance
that someone may be unlawfully there. Turess v. New
York, Susquehanna & Western R. R. Co., 61 N. J. L. 314.
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Reich;
Holbrook v. Aldrich; Romana v. Boston Elevated Ry. Co.,
supra.
Judgment reversed.
In the absence of a decision of the highest -Court of
New Jersey holding otherwise, MR.JusTICE DAY and
MR. JusTcE; CLARxE are of opinion that the Circuit

Court of Appeals was right in holding the statute inap,plicable to a child of seven, and therefore dissent.

