OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

247 U. S.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. LOWE, UNITED
STATES COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE SECOND DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 452.

Argued March 4, 5, 6, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.

Accumulations that accrued to a corporation through surplus earnings or appreciation in property value, before the adoption of the
Sixteenth Amendment (February, 1913), and the effective date
'(March, 1913), of the Income Tax Act of 1913 (Act October 3, 1913,
c. 16, 38 Stat. 166), are to be regarded as its capital, not as its income for the purposes of that act.
Although, in general, the Income Tax Act of 1913, unlike that of
Jne 30,1864; treated corporate earnings as not accruing to the shareholders until the time when a dividend was paid (Lynch v. Hoby,
post, 339), and although in ordinary cases the mere accumulation
of adequate surplus does not entitle a shareholder to dividends until
the directors, in their discretion, declare them, yet, where the shares
of a corporation were all owned, and its property and funds possessed,
and its operations and affairs completely dominated, by another
corporation, so that the two were in substance but one, and where
dividends from the one to the other were consummated, after the
Act of 1913 became effective, by a mere paper transaction-formal
vote of the directors of the first company and entries on the books of
the two-and represented merely what the second company was
entitled to have as shareholder before January 1, 1913, from a surplus theretofore accumulated, held, that such dividends were not
taxable as income of the shareholding company within the true
intent and meaning of the Income Tax Act of 1913.
238 Fed. Rep. 847, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Gordon M. Buck for plaintiff in error.

.SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v.LOWE.
330.

331

Opinion of the Court.

he .Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America, as amicus curim.
MR. JUSTICE PrNmy delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents a question arising under the Federal
Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913,, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114,
166. Suit was brought by plaintiff in error against the
Collector to recover taxes assessed against it .and paid
under protest. There were two causes of action, of which
only the second went to trial, it having been stipulated
that the trial of the other might be postponed until the
final determination of this one. So far as it is presented
to us, the suit is an effort to recover a tax imposed upon
certain dividends upon stock, in form received by the
plaintiff from another corporation in the early part of the
year 1914, and alleged by the plaintiff to have been paid
out of a surplus accumulated not only prior to the effective
date of the act but prior to the adoption of the Sixteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The District Court directed a verdict and judgment in
favor of the Collector, 238 Fed. Rep. 847, and the case
comes here by direct writ of error. under §238, Judicial
Code, because of the constitutional question. That our
jurisdiction was properly invoked is settled by Towne v.
Eisner, 245 U.. S. 418, 425.
The case was submitted at the same time with several
bther cases arising under the same act and decided thisday, viz., Lynch v. Turrish, ante, 221; Lynch v. Hornby,
post, 339, and Peabody v. Eisner, post, 347.
The material facts are as follows: Prior to January 1,
1913, and at all times material to the case, plaintiff, a

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Kentucky, owned all the capital stock of the Central
Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of the State of
Utah, inclading the stock registered in the names of the
directors.1 This situation existed continuously from the
incorporation of the Railway Company in the year 1899.
That company is the successor of the Central Pacific Railroad Company and acquired all of its properties, which
constitute a part of a large system of railways owned or
controlled by the Southern Pacific Company. The latter
company, besides being sole stockholder, was in the
actual phygical possession of the railroads and all other
assets of the Railway Company, and in charge of its operations, which were conducted in accordance with the terms
of a lease made by the predecessor company to the Southem Pacific and assumed by the Railway Company, the
effect of which was that the Southern Pacific should pay
to the lessor company $10,000 per annum for organization
expenses, should operate the railroads, branches, and
leased lines belonging to the lessor, and account annually
for the net earnings, and if these exceeded 6 per cent. on
the existing capital stock of the lessor the lessee should
retain to itself one-half of the excess; advances by the
lessee for account of the lessor were to bear lawful interest,
and the lessee was to be entitled at any time and from
time to time to refund to itself its advances and interest
out of any net earnings which might be in its hand. The
provisions of the lease were observed by both corporations
for bookkeeping purposes. The Southern Pacific acted
as cashier and banker for the entire system; the Central
Pacific kept no bank account, its earnings being deposited
with the bank account of the Southern Pacific; and if the
1 There -was another

questioa, concerning a dividend paid by the Reward Oil Company, whose stock likewise was owned by the Southern
Pacific Company, but the contention of plaintiff in error respecting
this item has been abandoned.

SOUTHERN" PACIFIC CO. v. LOWE.
330.

333

Opinion of the-Court.

Central Pacific needed money for additiois and betterments or for making up a deficit of current earnings, the
necessary funds were advanced by the Southern Pacific.
As a result of these operations and of the conversion of.
certain capital assets. of the Central Pacific Company,,
that company showed upon its books a large surplus
accumulated prior to January 1, 1913, principally in the
form of.a debit against the Southern Pacific, which at the
same time, as sole stockholder, was entitled to. any and
all dividends that might be declared, and being in control"
of the board of directors was able to and did control the
dividend policy. The dividends in question were declared
and paid during the first. six months of the year 1914 out
of this surplus of the Centraf Pacific accumulated prior to
January 1, 1913; but the payment was only constructive,
being carried into effect' by thookkeeping entries which
simply reduced the aiparent surplus of the Central Pacific
and reduced the apparent indebtedness of the Southern
Pacific to the Central Pacific by precisely the amount of
the dividends.
The question is whether the dividends received under
these circumstances and in this manner by the Southern
Pacific Company were taxable as income of that company
under the Income Tax Act of 1913.'
The act provides in §II, paragraph A, subdivision I
• (38 Stat. 166): "That there shall be levied, assessed,
collected and paid annualy upon the entire net income
arising or accruing from all sources in the preceding caendar year" to eve-y person residing in the United States a
tax of 1 per centum per annum, with exceptions not now
In addition, a question was made in the District Court as to a
special dividend declared by the Central Pacific out of the procecds
of sale of certain land on Long Island, taken in satisfaction of a debt
and sold in December, 1913. As to this, however, no argument is
submitted by plaintiff in error, the facts are not clear, and wepass it
without consideration.

3b4

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

material. By paragraph G -(a) (p. 172), it is provided:
"That the-noimal tax hereinbefore imposed upon individuals [I per cent.] likewise shall be levied, assessed, and
paid annually upon the entire net income -aising or
accruing from all sources during the preceding calendar. year- to every corporation ...
organized in
the United States," with other provisions not now
material.
It is provided in -paragraph G (b), as to domestic
corporations, that such net income shall be ascertained
by deducting from the gross amount of the income of the
corporatioi (1) ordinary and necessary expenses paid
within the year in the maintenance and operation of its
business and properties, including -rentals and the like;
(2) losses sustained within the year and not compensated
by insurance- or otherwise, including- a reasonable allowance for depreciation by -use, ,wear and tear of property,
if any, and-in the case of mines a certain allowance for
depletion of ores and -ther natural deposits; (3) interest
accrued and paid within the year upon indebtedness of
the corporation, within prescribed limits; (4) national and
state taxes paid. It willbe observed that moneys received
as dividends upon the stock of other corporations are not
deducted, as they are in computing the income of individuals for the purposed !of the normal tax under this act
(p. 167), and as' they 'were in computing the income of a
corporation under the Excise Tax Act of August 5, 1909,
c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 113, § 38.
By paragraph G (c), the tax upon: corporations is to be
computed -upon the entite net income accrued within eacb
calendar year but for the year 19l3-nly upn the net income accrued from March '1 to December 31, to. be ascertained by takig five-sixths of the entire net income for the
calendar year.
The purpose to refrain from taxing income that accrued prior to March 1, 1913, and to exclude from con-

SOUtHERN PACIFIC CO. v. LOWE.
330;

Opinion of the Court.

sideration in leaking the computation any income that"
accrued in a, preceding calendar year, is made plain
by the provision last referred to; indeed, the Sixteenth*
Amendment, under which for the first time Congress was
authorized to tax income. from property without apportioning the tax among the States according to population,
received the approval of the requisite number of States
only 'in February, 1913. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 15' U. S. 429, 581; 158 U. S. 601, 637: Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 16.
We must reject in this case, as we have rejected in
cases arising under the Corporation Excise Tax Act of
1909 (Doye v. Mitchell Brothers Co., ante,179, and Hays v.
Gauley Mountain Coal Co., ante, 189) the broad contention
submitted in behalf of the Government that all receipts-everything that comes in-are income, within the proper
definition of the term "gross income," and that the entire
pcoceeds of a conversion of capital assets, in whatever
form and under whatever circumstances accomplished,
should be treated as gross income. Certainly the term
"income" has no broader meaning in the 1913 Act than
in that of 1909 (see Stratton's Independence v. Howbert,
231 U. S. 399, 416, 417), and for the present purpose we
assume there is no difference in its meaning as used in
the two acts. This being so, we are bound to consider
accumulations that accrued to a corporation prior to
January 1, 1913, as being capital, not income, for the
purposes of the act. And we perceive no adequate
ground for a distinction, in this regard, between an accumulation of surplus earnings, and the increment due to
an appreciation in value of the- assets of the taxpayer.
That the dividends in question were paid out of a
surplus that accrued to the Central Pacific prior to January 1, 1913, is undisputed; and we deem it to be equally
clear that this surplus accrued to the Southern Pacific
Company prior to that date, in every substantial sense

336

OCTOBER-TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

pertinent to the present inquiry, and hence underwent
nothing more thana change of form when the dividends
were declared.
We do not rest this upon the view that for the purposes
of the Act of 913_ stockholders in the ordinary case
have the same interest i the accumulated earnings of
the companyb efcre as after 'the declarat'ion of dividends.
The act is quite different in-this respect from the Income
Tax Act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat. 223, 281, 282,
under which this cpurt held, in Collector v. Hubbard, 12
Wall. 1, 16, that"an individual was taxable upon his
proPortion of the earnings of the corporation although not
declared as dividends. That decision was based upon. the
very special language' of a clause of § 117 of the act (13
Stat. 282)tiat, "the' gains and -profits of all companies,
whether incorporated or partfiership , other than the companies specified in this Section, shall be included in estimating the annual gains, profits, or income of a.y person
entitled to the same -whether
divided or otherwise."
The Act of 1913 contains no similar language, but on the
contrary deals with dividends as a particular item of
income, leaving them free from the normal tax-imposed
upon individuals, subjecting them to the graduated
surtaxes only when received as dividends (38 Stat. 167,
paragraph B), and subjecting the interest of an individual.shareholder in the undivided gains and profits of
his corporation to these taxes only in case the company
is formed or fraudulently availed of for the purpose of preventing the imposition of such tax by permitting gains
and profits to accunulate instead of being divided or
distributed.' Our view of the -effect' of this act upon
1"For the purpose of this additional tax the taxable income of any
indiv.Jual shall embrace the share to which he would be entitled of the'
gains and profits, if divided or distributed, whether divided or distributed or not, of all corpo'ations, joint-stock companies, or associatiGns however created or -rganized, formed or fraudulently availed

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. t. LOWE.
330.

337

Opinion of the Court.

dividends received by the ordinary stockholder after it
took effect but paid out of a surplus that accrued to the
corporation before that -event, is set forth in Lynch v.
Hornby, post, 339.
We -base our conclusion in the present case upon the
view that it was the purpose and intent of Congress,
while taxing "the entire net income arising or accruing
from all sources" during each year commencing with the
first day of March, 1913, to refrain from taxing that
which, in mere form only, bore the appearance of income
accruing after that date, while in truth and in substance
it accrued before; and upon the fact that the Central
Pacific and the Southern Pacific were in substance
identical because of the complete ownership and control
which the latter possessed over the former, as stockholder
and in other capacities. While the two companies were
separate legal entities, yet in fact, and for all practical
purposes they were merged, -the former being but a part
of the latter, acting merely as its agent and subject in all
things to its proper direction and control. And, besides,
the funds represented by the dividends were in the actual
possession and control of the Southern Pacific as well
before as after the declaration of the dividends. The
fact that the books7 were kept in accordance with the
provisions of the lease, so that these funds appeared upon
of for the purpose of preventing the imposition of such tax through the.
medium of permitting such gains and profits to accumulate instead of
being divided or distributed; and the fact that any such corporation . . . is a mere holding company, or that the gains and profits
are permitted to accumulate beyond the reasonable needs of the
business shall be primaface evidence of a fraudulent purpose to escape
such tax; but the fact that the gains and profits are in any case permitted to accumulate and become surplus shall not be construed as
evidence of a purpose to escape the said tax in such case unless the
Secretary of the Treasury shall certify that in his opinion such accumulation is unreasonable for the purposes of the business." (38 Stat.
166, 167.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

the accounts as an indebtedness of the lessee to the lessor,
cannot be controlling, in view of the practical identity
between lessor and lessee. Aside from tbe interests of
creditors and the public-and there is nothing to suggest
that the interests of either were concerned in the disposition of the surplus of the Central Pacific-the Southern
Pacific was entitled to dispose of the matter as it saw fit.
There is no question of there being a surplus to warrant
the dividends at the time they were made, hence any
speculation as to what might have happened in case of
financial reverses that did not occur is beside the mark.
It is true that in ordinary cases the mere accumulation of an adequate surplus does not entitle a stockholder
to dividends until the directors in their discretion declare
them' New York, Lake Erie & Western Railroadv. Nickals,
119 U. S. 296, 306;- Gibbons v. Mahon, 136 U. S. 549, 558.
.And see Humphreys v. McKissbck, 140 U. S. 304, 312.
But this is not the ordinary. case. In fact the discretion
of the directors was affirmatively exercised by declaring
dividends out of the surplus that was accumulated prior
to January 1, 1913; it does not appear that any other
fair exercise of discretion was open; and the complete
ownership and right of control'of the Southern Pacific
at all times material makes it a matter of indifference
whether the vote was at one time or another. Under the
circumstances, the entire inatter of the declaration and
payment of the dividends was a paper transaction to bring
the boks into accord with the acknowledged rights of the
Southern Pacific; and so far as the dividends represented
the surplus of the Central Pacific that accumulated prior
to January 1, 1913, they were not taxable as income of
the Southern Pacific within the true intent and meaning
of the Act of 1913.'
The case turns upon its very peculiar facts, and is distifguishable from others in which the question of the identity
of a controlling stockholder with his corporation has been

