PEABODY r. EISNER.
Opinion of the Court.

PEABODY v. EISNER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 705.

Argued March 4, 5, 6, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.

A dividend received by a shareholder after, from surplus profits of the
corporation existing before, March 1, 1913, was subject to the "surtax" under the Income Tax Act of 1913. Lynch v. Hornby, ante, 339.
A dividend by a corporation of shares owned by it in another corporation is not a stock dividend and is subject to the tax, like an equivalent distribution of money. Towne v. Eiwwr, 245 U. S. 418, distinguished.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry W. Clark for plaintiff in error.
The Sblicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America,
as amicu curiu.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arose under the Federal Income Tax Act of
October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 166. The controversy
is over the first cause of action set up by plaintiff in error
in a suit against ihe Collector for the recovery of an additional tax exacted in respect of a certain dividend

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
,Opinion of the Court,

247 U. S.

received by plaintiff in the year 1914, the facts being as
follows: On and prior to March 1, 1913, and thenceforward until payinent of the dividend in question,
plaintiff was owner of 1,100 shares (out of a total of
2,000,000 shares outstanding) of common stock of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, of the par value of
$100 each, and during the same period the company had
large holdings of the common and preferred stocks of the
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company. On March 2,
1914, the Union Pacific declared and paid an extra dividend upon each share of its common stock, amounting to
83 in cash, $12 in par value of preferred stock of the
Baltimore & Ohio, and $22.50 in par value of the common
stock of the same company; the result being that petitioner received as his dividend .upon his holding of Union
Pacific common stock $3,300 in cash, 132 shares of
Baltimore & Ohio preferred and 247Y2 shares of Baltimore
& Ohio common stock. In his income return for 1914 he
included as taxable income $4.12 per share of this dividend, or $4,532 in all, and paid his tax upon the basis
of this return. Afterwards he was subjected to an additional assessment upon a valuation of the balance of his
dividend, and this, having been paid under protest, is the
subject of the present suit, the theory of which is that
the entire earnings, income, gains; and profits from all
sources realized by the Union Pacific Railroad Company
from March 1, 1913, to March 2, 1914, remaining after
the payment of prior charges, did not exceed $4.12 per
share of the Union Pacific common stock, and that the cash
and Baltimore & Ohio stock disposed of in the extra
dividend (so far as they exceeded the value of $4.12 per'
share of Union Pacific) did not constitute a gain, profit,
or income of the Union Pacific, and therefore did not
constitute a gain, profit, or income of the plaintiff arising
or accruing either in or-for the year 1914 or for any period
subsequent to March 1, 1913, the date. when the Income

PEABODY v. EISNER.
347.

Opinion of the Court.

Tax Law took effect. The District Court overruled this
contention upon the authority of Southern Pacific Co.
v. Lowe, 238 Fed. Rep. 847, and Towne v. Eisner, 242 Fed.
Rep. 702. The latter case has since been reversed (245
U. S. 418), but only upon the ground that it related to a
stock dividend which in fact took nothing from the property of the corporation and added nothing to the interest
of the shareholder, but iferely changed the evidence
which represented that interest. Southern Pacific Co.
v. Lowe, has been reversed this day, ante, 330, but only
upon the ground that the Central Pacific Railway Company, which paid the dividend, and the Southern Pacific
Company, which received it, were in substance identical
corporations because of the complete ownership and control which the latter possessed over the former as stockholder and in other capacities, so that while the two
companies were separate legal entities, yet in fact and
for all practical purposes the former was but a part of the
latter, acting merely as its agent and subject in all things
to its direction and control; and for the further reason
that the funds represented by the dividend were in the
actual possession and control of the Southern Pacific
Company as well before as after the declaration of the
dividend. In this case the plaintiff in error stands in the
position of the ordinary stockholder, whose interest in
the accumulated earnings and surplus of the company
are not the same before as after the declaration of a
dividend; his right being merely to have the assets devoted to the proper business of the corporation and to
receive from the current earnrings or accumulated surplus such dividends as the directors in their discretion
may declare; and -without right or power on his part to
control that discretion.
It hardly is necessary to say that this case is not ruled
by our decision in Towne v. Eisner, since the dividend of
Baltimore & Ohio shares was not a stock dividend but

