FRIEDERICHSEN v'. RENARD.
204.

Syllabus.

strument by means of which the wrong is accomplished
happens to be the judgment of a federal cburt. No sub-'
stantial federal question is involved. We have no occasion, therefore, to consider whether the validity of the
Missouri statute was drawn in question (Philadelphia&
Reading Coal & Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S. 162); nor
whether "a decision in the suit" might not have been had
in the Supreme Court of Missouri, (Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 530).
Writ of error dismissed.

FRIEDERICHSEN v. RENARD, EXECUTOR OF
RENARD, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 270. Argued April 25, 6, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
Plaintiff, .having been defrauded in an exchange of lands, sued in the
Dis;rict Court to annul his contract and deed and for incidental
damages. The court finding that by acts of-ownership he had affirmed the contract, by its order, under Equity Rule 22, transferred
the case to the law side as an action for damages for the deceit, and
the bill was amended accordingly but~with no substantial change in
the allegations of fraud. Meanwhile, the period of the statute of
limitations had expired.
Held: (1) That the amendment did not change the cause of action and
did not constitute the beginning of a new case.
(2) That, since the money relief prayed in the amended petition could
properly have been sought as alternative relief in the original bill in
equity, and since the transfer to the law side was made upon order of
the court in the exercise of its discretion, plaintiff could not be held

OCTOBER TERM) 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

to have made such an election of inconsistent remedies as would let
in the defense of limitations against the amended demand.
231 Fed. Rep. 882, reversed.

Tp case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William V. Allen for petitioner.
Mr. R. E. Evans, with whom Mr. W. D. Funk was on
the briefs, for respondents.
MR. JusTicE CIA=E delivered the opinion of the court.
On March 12, 1908, the petitioner, Friederichsen, contracted in writing to exchange land which he owned in
Nebraska for land in Virginia owned by the respondent,
Mary C. Gilmore, who in the transaction acted through
her agent, Edward Renard, the decedent of the respondent
G. H. Renard. We shall refer to the parties as they were
in the courts below, Friederichsen as plaintiff, and Gilmore and Renard as defendants.
On September 22, 1908, Friederichsen filed a bill in
equity
in the United States Circuit Court for the
District ol Nebraska, praying for a decree cancelling the
contract and the deed made pursuant thereto and for
damages sustained, on the ground of fraud practiced upon
him. -

Defendants answered denying the fraud charged, and
on August 20, 1912, .a master, theretofore appointed in
the case, reported that Friederichsen at the time of the
exchange was "below the average in mental ability;"
that he had been induced to enter into the contract by
the fraudulent representations of Renard, as alleged; and
thal he had sustained damage in the sum of $5,880. But
the master also reported that Friederichsen, after taking
possession of the Virginia lands,.after filing his bill in the
ease and after having had time to discover the condition

FRIEDERICHSEN v. RENARD.
207.

Opinion of the CoUrt.

and value of the land, had cut down a considerable amount
of timber growing thereon.
On the coming in of this report, the court on September 19, 1913, found that the plaintiff was not entitled
to equitable relief because he had ratified the contract of.
exchange by cutting timber on the Virginia lands, thereby
preventing the defendants from being placed in statu
quo, but that his remedy was at law for damages, and
thereupon it was ordered: that the master's report be
vacated; that pursuant to Equity Rule 22, the cause be
transferred to the law sideof the court; and that the
parties "file amended pleadings to conform with an
action at law."
Complying with this order, on September 25, 1913,
the plaintiff filed an "amended petition" on the law side
of the court, and, upon the same facts stated in the original bill in equity, prayed for a judgment for damages.
The, defendants filed answers the same -in substance as
those filed in the equity suit, but adding the defense that
the cause of action stated in the amended petition was -,
barred by the Nebraska four-year statute of limitations.
When the case came on for trial, and after it was stipulated by counsel for the defendants that the plaintiff had
introduced sufficient evidence to. entitle him to recover a
verdict, unless barred by the statute of limitations, it was
ruled "that the cause of action stated in the plaintiff's
amended petition was barred by the statute of limitations of thd State of Nebraska, and that the filing of the
amended petition did not relate back to the commencement of the action in such a way as to prevent the bar of
the statute," and a verdict was- directed for the defendants. The judgment entered on this verdict, affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, is
now before us for review on writ of certiorari.
Thus the case presents for. decision the single question,
Whether the filing of the "amended petition" on the law

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

side of the court on September 25, 1913, was the commencement of a new action more than four years after
the fraud was discovered, (which must have been prior
to the filing of the bill in equity on September 22, 1908),
which was therefore barred, or whether the tproceeding
at law was but pursuing toward a conclusion, in another
form, the same cause of action stated in the original bill,
so that the suspension of the statute of limitations continued, which began with the date of the service of .the
subpcena in chancery.
It is argued by the respondents that in the bill in equity
the petitioner disaffirmed, while in the amended petition
he affirmed the contract of exchange; that the latter for
this reason states a new and different cause of action
from the former, anad that, against this new cause of action,
the running of the statute of limitations was not arrested
until the amended petition was filed, and that then it
had become barred.
But the allegations of fraud in the two papers are the
same in substance, and practically the same in form, the
only substantial difference between them being that the
prayer for relief in the bill is for mutual return of lands,
with incidental damages, while, in the amended petition,
it is for damages alone. The cause of action is the wrong
done, not the measure of compensation for it, or the
character of the relief sought, and, considered as a matter
of substance, the change in the statement of that wrong
in the amended petition cannot in any just sense be considered a new or different cause of action.
It.is settled upon reason and authority that the conversion of a suit in equity into an action at law or vice versa
is not -alone sufficient to constitute the beginning of a
new action and that with respect to the statute of limitations it is a mere incident in the progress of the original
case.:
It was so held by, the Supreme Court of Nebraska long

FRIEDERICHSEN v. RENARD.
207.

Opinion of the Court.

prior to the origii of the'controversy we have here, when
an action in-ejectment was, converted into a suit to redeem,
McKeighan v.. HqPkins, 19 Nebraska, 33, and Again, in
Butler v. Smith, 184 Nebraska, 78, in a similar case in
1909, the question was held not to be an open one.
In Smith v. Butler, 176 Massachusetts,: 38, followed
with approval in 1917 in Reynolds v. Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co., 228 Massachusetts, 584, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts declared that it had been the
settled practice in that Commonwealth -for a period of
over fifty years to allow actions at law to be amended into
suits in equity, inplace of putting the plaintiff to a new
suit, and to "allow those amendments on the ground that
if a new suit were brought, it would be barred by the
statute." It will suffice to add that in Schurmeier v.
Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co., 171 Fed. Rep. 1, the
Circuit Court of Appeals, a, judgment of which we are
here reviewing, held that the amendment of a law action
into one in equity, for the express purpose of meeting an
anticipated defense of the statute of limitations, did not
change the cause of action and that the amendment related to the time of the commencement of the action.
There remains to be considered the ground on which
the lower courts chiefly rested their judgment, viz: That,
in disaffirming the contract by his suit in equity, the
petitioner elected to pursue one of two inconsistent remedies open to him, until the period of the statute of limitations had expired, and that he therefore cannot escape
that bar when afterwards, by amendment of his pleadings,
he seeks to affirm the contract and recover damages.
No matter what may be thought of the merit of the
doctrine of election of remedies, it is a long observed and
deeply entrenched rule of procedure. But, for obvious
reasons, it has never been a favorite of equity and it has
been specifically decided by this court that the two forms
of relief pursued, before and after the amendment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

pleadings in this case, are not so inconsistent but-that both
may be prayed for in one bill in equity and either granted,
as the evidence and the equities of the case may require.
Thus, in Hardinv. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756, in a suit to annul
a land contract for fraud, the trial court permitted an
amendment to the bill, adding a prayer in the alternative
for a decree affirming the contract, granting a lien for the
unpaid purchase money and for foreclosure. The decree
in the case was entered on the alternative prayer.
This court affirmed that decree on principle and authority holding that:
"Under the liberal rules bf chancery practice which now
obtain, there is no sound reason why the .original bill in
this case might not have been framed with a prayer for
the cancellation of the cpntract upon the ground of fraud,
and an accounting between the parties, and, in the alternative, for a decree which, without chsturbing ihe contract, would give a lien on the lands for unpaid purchasemoney. .
. - The amendment had no other effect
than to make the bill read just as it might have been
originally prepared consistently with the established rules
of equity practice. It suggested no change or modification of its allegations, and, in no just sense, made a new
case."7

In view of the New Equity Rules of 1912, especially
Rule 22, and of the Act of Congress of March 3, 1915,
38 Stat. 956, it cannot be said that the power of courts
of equity to amend pleadings, or to permit them to be
amended, to accomplish the ends of justice, has been curtailed since the Hardin Case was-decided in 1884.
Thus, in express terms was it decided that a properly
framed prayer would have allowed the petitioner the relief in equity which he sought before the amendment or,
in the alternative, that for which he now prays, and to
this it must be added, that the order which converted his
suit in equity into an action at law was made in the ex-

FRIEDERICHSEN v. RENARD.
207.

Opinion of the Court.

ercise of a chancellor's discretion under warrant of an
equity rule.
At best this doctrine of election of remedies is a harsh,
and now largely obsolete rule, the scope of which should
not-be extended, as it must be in order to reach the case at
bar, for here the "amended petition" was not filed by
petitioner's counsel of their own motion, but on the order
of the court, entered in its discretion, to promote the ends

of justice.
Thus, we are brought to the conclusion that since the
two remedies asserted by the petitioner were alternative
remedies, and since the order made, requiring the conversion of the suit in equity into one at law, was entered
by the court sitting in chancery, for us to affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the petitioner,
in obeying the order of the trial court, made a fatal choice
of an inconsistent remedy, would be to subordinate substance to form of procedure, with the result of defeating
a claim which the respondents stipulated had been sufficiently established to justify a verdict against them.
This we cannot consent to do.
The questions of procedure being thus cleared away,
there is little further difficulty with the case. As we have
seen, the "amended petition" was not filed in a new case
but was simply a,step forward in progress toward settlement of the original controversy; the allegations of fact
are precisely the same in substance, and almost the same
in form, as they were in the original bill and therefore
looking to substance and realities, they *cannotbe regarded
as stating a new cause of action. The case falls clearly
within the scope of the principle of the decisions of this
court in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v'Cox, 145 U. S. 593604; Atlantic & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Laird, 164 U. S. 393,
401; Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Wulf, 226 U. S.
570; SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Renn, 241 U. S. 290; Washington Ry. & Elec. Co. v. Scala, 244 U. S. 630, 640.

