NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. SOLUM.

477-

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY

COMPANY v.

SOLUM.
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
MONARCH ELEVATOR COMPANY.

v.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
DULUTH ELEVATOR COMPANY.
ERROR TO

TE

SUPREME

COURT OF

THE STATE

OF

MINNESOTA.

Nos. 205, 206, 526. Argued March 19, 1918.-Decided June 10,. 1918.
The duty of a carrier to ship by the cheapest route in the absence of
shipping instructions is not absolute; it is a duty to deal fairly with
the shipper, with due regard also for the carrier's own interest and
its obligation to the public.
Resort to the more expensive of two of the carrier's routes may be
justified by a reasonable general practice of the carrier.
The Northern Pacific, having two routes between Duluth and other
Minnesota points farther west, one intrastate, with a heavy upgrade
westward, the other interstate, of lighter grades, used, in the absence
of other shipping directions, the former for Minnesota traffic bound
to Duluth and the latter for like traffic in the other direction. The
charges under the interstate tariff were more than those allowed between the same points by Minnesota law. Held, that the reasonableness of this practice of rquting was an administrative question within
the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Conimssion, whose decision the state courts had no jurisdiction to anticipate.
133 Minnesota, 93; id. 461, reversed.
Writ of error to review 136 Minnesota, 468, dismissed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. CharlesDonnelly, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

"478

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the'Court.

247 U. S.

Mr. Henry.C. Flannery, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Minnesota, with whom Mr. Lyndon A. Smith;
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, -was on the
brief, for defendant in error in No. 205.
Mr. Ernest E. Watson, for defendants in error in Nos.
206 and 526, submitted.
MR. JusTcE BRADEms delivered the opinion of the
court.
These three case-s were heard together. In each of
them the plaintiff below sought to recover from the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, in a state district
court of Minnesota,' an amount equal to that by which
the freight collected for coal carried on an interstate
route from Duluth to some other city in the State, exceeded tlhe rate prescribed by the Minnesota law for
carriage between those points on another route, wholly
within the State. In each case judgment was entered in
the trial court for the plaintiff for such amount; and the
judgments were affirmed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota. Each case comes here on writ of error.
Carlton is situated on the Northern Pacific Railway,
west of Duluth. "Between these - Minnesota cities that
company operates two lines of railroad, each mainly
single track. The northerly line, about 20.9 miles in
length, lies wholly within Minnesota; the southerly line,
27.5. miles in length, extends for 11.7 miles through
Wisconsin. The southerly is the original Northern Pacific. line which was built in 1885. It has relatively light
grades. The northerly line was built by the St. Paul
and Duluth Railroad Company and came under the
management of the Northern Pacific in 1900. It has a
heavy upgrade from lluth to Carlton. Since 1900 both
lines have been operated -continuously by the Northern

NORTHERN. PACIFIC RY. CO. .. SOLUM
477.'

479

Opinion of the Court.

Pacific. Because of these grades, the northerly route
has been used almost exclusively for such Duluth shipments as are inbound and the southerly route has been
used for such as axe outbound. Until June, 1907, the
rates were the same over the two routes. They were
duly filed with the Minnesota Railroad and Warehouse
C'Pommission and with the Interstate Commerce Commission.
In 1907 the legislature of Minnesota fixed for intrastate carriage of coal, maximum rates which were lower
than the published rates theretofore charged. The rates
so fixed were to take effect June 1, 1907; but before that
date their enforcement was enjoined by the proceedings
which were reviewed in The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352. This injunction remained in effect until July,
1913, when it was dissolved pursuant to that decision.
Until then the Northern Pacific continued to charge the
published rates (and therefore the same rates) on all
shipments of coal from Duluth to Minnesota points,
whether moving via the interstate route or the intrastate
route. After dissolution of the injunction, the company
refunded on the few shipments which had moved over
the intrastate route, the amount by which the charges actually collected exceeded the, charges which would have
been collected had the rates fixed by the legislature been
observed. -It refused, however, to make refunds on
shipments made over the interstate route, on the ground
that the state statute did not affect them.
Among such shipments were those involved in these
cases, from Duluth by the interstate route to three
Minnesota points, Hitterdal, Battle Lake, and Hawley,
cities on the Northern Pacific lying west of Carlton.
The shipment in each case was delivered to the Railway
without any instruction as to how it should be routed;
but the plaintiffs contended. that, in-the absence of instructions, it was the duty of the carrier to select that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

route which was for the interest of the shipper, namely
the intrastate route; because it would prove tol-be =the
cheaper, if the rates prescribed by the State were upheld. The-several shippers claimed that they were entitled to the same refunds which would have been made
if the coal had been carried .on the intrastate route; and
the suits were brought to recover these am~unts.
The Railway answered in the first two cases, that, at..
the time of the shipments, the rates published were
(because of the injunctioi in effect) identical on the two
routes; that "in the ordinary and proper and economical
operation of its property, it was necessary to move, and
this defendant in general did and does now, move all
out-bound shipments from Duluth via the interstate line
and all in-bound shipments into Duluth via the intrastate
line, and that to have carried the shipments referred to
in the complaint, to their destination . -.., via said
intrastate line instead of via the interstate line, over which
they were actually carried, would .have entailed great
additional expense upon this defendant"; and that these
rates were lust and reasonable for the service performed
and were collected pursuant to the tariffs published and
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. In the
third case the answer alleged in addition, that, on December 24, 1915, and prior to the commencement of that
action, the Interstate Commerce Commission had, in
Holmes & Hallowell Co. v. Great Northem Ry. Co., 37
I. C. C. 627, decided -that the practice of defendant in
routing its westbound shipments from Duluth over its
interstate line was a proberi and reasonable practice and
had denied the application for reparation on shipments
of coal made over that route.
The judgments entered were upon demurrers to the
answers.- That in number 205 was entered May 28, 1916;
that in number 206 on-May 23, 1916; that in number 526
on May 2,1917.= (133 Minnesota, 93; Id. 461; 136 Id. 468.)

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. SOLUM.
477.

481

Opinion of the Court.

In each case it is assigned as error that the state court
held that the cause of action therein is not affected by
the federal statute regulating interstate commerce;
and also that the state court assumed jurisdiction in
advance of a determination by the Interstate Commerce
Commission as to whether the practice of the Northern
Pacific Railway, in sending via its interstate route all
shipments of the character involved in these cases, was
reasonable. In the third case the additional error is
assigned that the court held that the intrastate rate
should be applied, although the Interstate Commerce
Commission had found that the practice of r6uting outbound shipments from Duluth via the interstate route
was proper and reasonable. The objection that the
court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the proceeding was
not made in the answers in the trial court; but it was insisted upon before the Supreme Court of Minnesota; was
considered and overruled by that court (133 Minnesota,
93, 97); and is available here. In numbers 205 and 206
judgment was entered before the Act, of September 6,
1916. A federal question is involved; and the cases are
properly here under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code. In number 526 the judgment was entered after the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39-Stat. 726, took effect. In that
case there was not drawn in question the validity of i
statute or treaty nor the validity of any authority exercised under the State. Philadelphia & Reading Coal &
Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S. 162; Ireland v. Woods, 246
U. S. 323; Stadelman v. Miner, 246 U. S. 544. The writ
of error in number 526 must therefore be dismissed;
although the defendant in error has not objected to the
jurisdiction of this court.
We proceed to consider numbers 205 and 206. In.
those cases the Supreme Court of Minnesota declared
that the arier's duty was governed by the common law
and it stated the applicible principle as follows (p. 96) :

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

"Where a railroad company operates two lines of
railroad between the same points, and the freight rate
over one line is less than such rate over the other line, if
other conditions are reasonably equal, it is the .duty of
the company to transport shipments between those points
over the line which will give the shipper the benefit of
the cheaper rate. To justify transporting such shipments
over the other line and thereby -compel the shipper to pay
the higher rate, the company must show that such line
was chosen by t1 ship ?er or .that the circumstances
or exigencies weA such that a proper regard for the
interests of the shipper precluded the use of the cheaper
line."
In the absence of shipping instructions it is ordinarily
the duty of the carrier to ship by the cheaper route. , But
the duty is not an absolute one. The obligation of the
carrier is to deal justly with the shipper, not toconsider
only his interests and to disregard wholly its own and those
of the general public. If, all things considered, it would
be unreasonable to ship by the cheaper route, the carrier
is not compelled to do so. The duty is upon the carrier
to select the cheaper route only "if other conditions are
reasonably equal." Resort to the more expensive route
*may be justified. And the justification may rest either
upon the peculiar circumstances of a particular case or
upon a general practice. In the cases before us the justification is rested upon a general pri.ctice. The answers
allege that, because of the gtades of the two lines, all
outbound shipments were and are in general moved over
the southerly route on account of the very great expense
'Which another arrangement would entail. It may well be,
under such circumstances, that carriage over the interstate
route would be justified, even if it appeared that it was
feasible to haul freight out of Duluth over the intrastate
line. Whether the practice of the.. carrier of shipping
over the interstate route was reasonable, when'a lower

NORT

.ERN PACIFIC RY. CO. r. SOLUM.

477.

Opinion of the Court.

intrastate route was open to it, presents an adminstrative
question, one of perhaps considerable complexity.
The Railway contends that, since the administrative
question upon which its liability depends involves the
reasonableness of a practice in interstate commerce and
the 'traffic actually moved in interstate commerce, the
court had no jurisdiction to adjudicate the controversy
until that administrative question had been determined
by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The shipper,
on the other hand, urges that the rule which requires such
preliminary determination of administrative questions
by the Commission applies only to those cases where the
question involved is whether a particular rate
is unreasonable or whether a particular practice is discriminatory.
But the rule is not so limited. It applies, likewise, to any
practice of the carrier which gives rise to the application
of a rate. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie' &
Timber Co., 234 U. S. 138, 147; Pennsylvania R. R. Co.
v. PuritanCoal Co., 237 U.S. 121, 131; PennsylvaniaR. R.
Co. v. Clark Brothers Coal Mining Co., 238 U. S. 456, 469.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has frequently
entertained proceedings for refunds for misrouting, under
such circumstances.1 Indeed, long before these suits were
filed, proceedings had been begun before the Interstate
Commerce Commission against this and other railroad
companies to secure the refunds of amounts paid for shipment over the interstate routes between Minnesota points
in excess of that which would have Jbeen payable, if shipment had beeni made over the intrastate routes. Holmes
& Hallowell Co. v. Great NorthernRy. Co., 37 I. C. C. 627,
Wiilman & Co. v. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co., 22
I. C. C. 405; Lathrop Lumber Co. v. Alabama Great Soidtwrn R. R. Co.,
27 I. C. C. 250; Texarkana Pipe Works v. Beaumont, Sour Lake &
Western Ry. Co.; 38 1. C. C. 341; MeCauU-DinmnoreCo. v. Great North- .
em Ry. Co., 411. C..

178; Cardwell v. Chicagb, Rock Island & Pacific

Ry. Co., 42 I. C. C. 730.

