EX PARTE SOUTHWESTERN .SURETY INS. CO.
16.

19

Statement of tle-Caie.

terdiction removed. Assuming that the plaintiff has
every other right that he says, he cannot pursue his rights
across country but must proceed along the road that
Louisiana law provides.
Decree affirmed.
THE CHmF JUSTICE took no part in the decision of this
case.

EX PARTE SOUTIWESTERN SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF PR6HIBITION.
No. 28, Original. Rubmitted April 22, 1918.-Rule discharged May 20,
1918.
Ik an action against a contractor and surety under the Act of August 13,
1894, 28 Stat. 278, as amended, the District Court has jurisdiction
to.decide whether claims of materialmen were filed within the year
limited by the act, and upon the effect of filing them later.
Prohibition will not issue to control the District Court upon questions
which that court is competent to decide or questions dependent on
facts not presented to this court.
Rule discharged.
UPON petition, a rule was made upon the Judge (,f the
District Court for the Western District of North Carolina,
to show cause why a writ of prohibition should not issue
to prevent further proceedings in an action brought
against a contractor and the petitioner as its surety, under
the Act of'August 13, 1894, c. 280,28 Stat. 278, as amended.
The decision was made upon the petition and respondent's
answer thereto.

Mr. Hayden Johnson and Mr. Thons M. Fields for
petitioner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinon of the Court.

247 U. S.

Mr. R. Randolph Hicks for respondent.

Memorandum opinion by MR. CHiEF JUSTICE WHrrE,
by direction of -the court.
The statute (c. 280, 28 Stat. 278; c. 778, 33 Stat. 811)
makes the district court of the district in which work contracted to be done for the United States is to be performed
the forum for the assertion by supply creditors or material
men of their claims against the contractor and the surety
on the bond. It moreover authorizes one suit by all for
the purpose of enforcing the liability of the surety. In
the light of these provisions and their settled interpretation all the contentions of the petitioner but one which we
shall hereafter separately notice are so completely foreclosed by previous authorities as to require only reference
to them. United States v. Congress Construction Co.,
222 U. S. 199; Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214;
Illinois Surety-Co. v. John Davis Co., 244 U. S. 376. Indeed so certain is this the case that .as to the principal
one of the questions, the power of the court, when raised
at this term it was treated as not open to controversy
and was hence disposed of by a per curiam opinion.
Hopkins v. Ellington & Guy, 246 U. S. 655.
The one subject which we pbstponiW considering is
the contention that rights of some of the claimants were
asserted after the one-year period of limitation which the
statute fixes. But this depends upon facts which are not
before us, and besides involves a question within the competency of the court to decide concerning which therefore
there is no basis for granting the writ of prohibition or
sanctioning a resort to any other extraordinary legal. rem-.
edy. See In re New York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 155
U. S. 523; Ex parte Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191.
It follows therefore that the rule must-be and it is dis-

chaiged.
Rule discharged.

