LYNCH v. TURRISH.
214.

Syllabus.

nishes an additional reason for our conclusion. The
relief asked by the defendants is refused."
The use of the writ of injunction, by federal courts
first acquiring jurisdiction over the parties or the subjectmatter of a suit, for the purpose of protecting and preserving, that jurisdiction until the object of the suit is
accomplished and complete justice done between the
parties, is familiar and long established practice, Freeman
v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Harkrader v. Wadley, 172 U. S.
148, 163, 164; in a rate case, Missouri v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 241 U. S. 533, 543. So important is it that unseemly conflict of authority between
state and federal courts should be avoided by maintaining
the jurisdiction of each free from the encroachments of
the other, that § 265 of the Judicial Code, Rev. Stats.,
§ 720, Act of March 2, 1793, c. 22, 1 Stat. 334, has repeatedly been held not applicable to such an injunction.
Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S.93, 113; Simon v.
Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115.
The motion to dismiss is granted.
Dismissed.

LYNCH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA, v. TURRISH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 421.

Argued March 4, 5, 6, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.

Due to gradual increase in the market value of timber lands owned by a
corporation, the market value of i's shares had increased to twice
par value by March 1, 1913, when the Income Tax Act of that year
took effect. Afterwards the company sold all its property and made

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

final distribution of the proceeds to the shareholders on surrender of
their certificates of stock, the amount received by each being twice
the par value of his shares but.representing no increase since the
effective date of the act. Held, that the value thus received in excess
of par was not "income, gains, or profits" of a shareholder, subject
to the tax, (a) because it represented merely a conversion of his existing investment, (b) because it did not "arise" or "accgue" after
the act became effective.
236 Fed. Rep. 653, affirmed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. 'Herron
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. W. Clapp, with whom Mr. N. H. Clapp, Mr. H.
Oldenburg and Mr. H. -J. Richardson were on the brief,
for respondent.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America,
as amicus curio.
MR. JusTcIC

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit to recover an income tax, paid under protest, assessed under the Act of October 3, 1913, 38 Stat. 166.
-The ftfis, as admitted by demurrer, are these: Respondent, Turrish, who was plaintiff in the trial court,
made a return of his income for the calendar year 1914
which showed that he had no net income for that year;
afterwards the Commissioner of Internal Revenue made
a supplemental assessment showing that he had received
a net income of $32,712.08, which, because of specific
deductions and exemptions, resulted in no normal tax,
but as the net income exceeded the sum of $20,000 the
Commissioner assessed an additional or super-tax of*one
per cent. upon the excess, resulting in a tax- of $127.12,

LYNCH r. TURRISH.

22L

Opinion of the Court..

'which was sought to be recovered. The reassessment was
based upon certain sums received by the plaintiff in the
year 1914 as distributions from corporations subject to
the Income Tax Law and held by the Commissioner to be
income derived from dividends received by the plaintiff
on stock of domestic corporations; of which the sum of
$79,975, received as a distribution from the Payette
Lumber & Manufacturing Company, and without which
no tax could have been levied against the plaintiff, is here
in dispute.
Prior to March 1, 1913, and continuously thereafter
until the surrender of his stock as hereinafter mentioned,
plaintiff was a stockholder in the Payette'Company,
which was organized in the year 1903 with power to buy,
hold, and sell timber lands, and in fact never engaged in
any. other business than this except minor. business incidental to it. Immediately after its organization this
company began to invest in timber lands, aid prior to
March 1, 1913, had thus invested approximately
$1,375,000.
On March 1, 1913, the value of its assets.was not less
than $3,000,000, of which sum the value of the timber
lands was not less than $2,875,000. The increase was
due to the gradual rise in the market value of the lands.
At that date the value of Turrish's stock was twice its
par value, or $159,950.00, and about that time he and all
the other stockholders gave an option to sell their stock
for twice its par value. The holders of the option formed
another company, called the Boise Payette Lumber Company, and transferred the options to it. The options
having been extended to December 31, 1913, the new
company informed the Payette Company and its tock-.
holders shortly before this date that instead of exercising the option it preferred and proposed to purchase
all of the assets of the Payette Company, paying to
that company such a purchase price that there would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

available for distribution to its stockholders tw'ce the
par value of their stock. The stockholders by resolution
authorized this sale, and, pursuant to this and a resolution of the directors, the Payette Company transferred
to the new company all of its assets,'property, anfl franchises, and upon the completion of the transaction
found itself with no assets or' property, except cash to
the amount of double the par value
of its stpck which
/
,had been paid to it b.y the new company, and with no
debt, liabilities, or obligations except those which *thenew
company had assumed. The casi was distributed to
the stockholders on the surrender of, their certificates
of stock, and the company went out of ,business. In
this way, upon the surrender of his shares, Turrish received $159,950, being double their par value.
-r The Commissioner of Internal Revenue considered
that of this sum one-half was not taxable, being the
liquidation of the par value of Turrish's stock, but
that the other half was income for the year i914 and
taxable under the Act of 1913.
The question in the.case is thus indicated. The District Court took a different view from that of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and therefore overruled
the demurrer to Turrish's complaint and entered judgment for him for the sum prayed, which judgment was
affirmed by the 'Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. 236 Fed. Rep. 653.
The point in the case seems a short one. It, however,
has provoked much discussion on not only the legal but
-the economic distinction between capital and income and
by what processes and at what point of time the former
produces or becomes the latter. And this in resolution
of a statute which concerns the activities of men and
intended, it might be 'supposed, to be without perplexities and readily solvable by the off-hand conceptions of
those to whom it was addressed.

LYNCH v. TURRISH.
221..

Opinion of the CZourt.

The provisions of the act, so far as material to be noticed, are the following: That there is assessed "upon
the entire net income arising or accruing from all sources
in the preceding calendar year to every --, . person
residing in the United States
..
a tax of 1 per
centum per annum upon such income.
." Par. A,

subdiv. 1.
In addition to that tax, which is denominated the norreal income tax, it is provided that there shall be levied
"upon the net income of every individual an additional
tax . . of 1 per centum per annum upon the amount
by which the total net income exceeds" certain amounts,°
and the person subject to the tax is required to make a
personal return of his total net income from all sources
under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.' Subdiv. 2.
By Paagraph B it is provided that, subject to certain
exemptions and deductions, "the net income of a taxable
person shall include gains, profits, and income derived
from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service .
also from interest, rent, dividends, securities,
or the transaction of any lawful business carried on for
gain or profit, or gains or profits and income derived from
any source whatever."
After specifying the exemptions and deductions allowed, the law declares .as follows:
"The said tax shall be computed upon the remainder
of said net income of each person subject thereto accruing
during each preceding calendar year ending December
thirty-first: Provided, however, That for the year ending
December thirty-first, nineteen hundred and thirteen,
said tax shall be computed on the net income accruing
from March first to December thirty-first,- nineteen hundred and thirteen, both dates inclusive

. . ." Par. D.

- It will be observed, therefore, that the statute levies
a normal tax and an additional tax upon net incomes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

derived- rn -whatever source, A.rising or accruing"
each 'preceding calendar year 'ending - December 31,
except that-for the year ending December 31, 1913, the
tax shall be computed on the net income accruing from
March 1, 1913, to December 31, 1913.
-And in determining-The application of the statute to
turrish we must keep in mind that on the admitted
facts the distribution received by him from the Payette
Company manifestly was a single and final dividend in
liquidation of the entire assets and business of the com-'
pahy;, a returni to him of the value of his stock upon the
surrender of his entire: interest in the company, and at a
price -that represented *its intrinsic value at and before
March 1, 1913, when the act took effect.
- The District .Court and the Circuit Court Qf Appeals
decided that the amount so distributed to Turrish was
not income within, the meaniig of the statute, basing
the decision on two propositions, as expressed in the
opinion of the Circuit Court bfAppeals, by Sanbornj Circuit-'Judge,-'-(a) The amount .,was the realization of an
investment: made, some: years -before, representing its
gradual: increase during those years, and which reached
its height before the effective date- of the .law, that is,
before March 1, 1913, and the mere change .of form of
the property "as from-real to personal property, or from
stock to cash" was not income to its holders because
the-value of the property was the same. after as before
the change; (b) .The timber lands were the property,
capital -and capital 'assets of their legal and equitable
owner and, the enhancement of their value, during a
series of years "prior to the effective date of an-income
tax law, although divided or distributed by dividend or
otherwise subsequent' to that date, does not become income, gains, or- profits taxable under such an act."'
For proposition !a" the court cited Collector v. Hubbard712 Wall, 1; Bailey v. Railroad Company, 22 Wall.

LYNCH
221.

.

TURRISH.

227

Opinion of the Court.

604, and the sane case in 106 U. S. 109. For propositibn
"b" (ray v. Darlington, 15 Wall. 63, was relled on.
The Government opposes both contentions by an ela
orate argument containing definitions of capitaIand inLcome drawn from legal and economic sources and given
breadth to cover a number of other cases submitted with
this. The argument, in effect, makes any increase.of
value of property income, emerging as such and.taxable
at the moment of realization by sale or some act of separation, as by dividend declared or by distribution, as in
the instant case.
To sistain the argument these definitions are presented:
"1. Capital is anything, material or otherwise, capable
of ownership, viewed in its static condition ,a a moment
of time, or the rights of ownership therein. 2. hcome
is the service or return rendered by capital during a period
of time. . . 4. Net income ('profits') is the difference
between income and outgo. . . 7. In the act ia. production and distribution of capital there is a constant
conversion of capital into income, and vice versa. 8. The
attempt to conceal this conversion b; treating 'income'
as the standard return from intact 'capital' only leads
to confusion of the value of capital with capital itself."
From these definitions are deduced the following
propositions, which are said to be decisive of the problems
in the cases:
"1. Income being derived from the use of capital, the
conversion: or transfer of capital always produces income.
2. Mere appreciation of .capital value does not produce
'income,' nor mere depreciation 'outgo.' 3. Net income
is the difference between actual 'income' and actual
'outgo.' 4. Income is not confined to mo'ney income,
but includes anything capable of easy valuation in
money."
It will be observed that the breadth of definition and

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

the breadt of application are necessary to the refutation
of the .reasoning of the Cir'cuit Court of 'Appeals. There
is diret antagonsm, the court basing its reliance, it says,
upon wt it asserts is the common sense and understanding o1ithe words of the law,'and the exposition of like laws
by the decisins of this court. The Government's resource is the iscussion of econonnists and the fact, concrete
and practical', bf weit' not only increased but come to
actual hand. The instant case is an example. Turrish's
stock -doubled in value. lie paid for it $79,975.00; he
received$i59;,950.00. It requires a struggle to resist the
influence of the fact, but we are aided and fortified by
our own precedents and saved from.-much intricate and
_"b-l6-aiscussion and an elaborate review of other-cases
cited ' confirmatiok or opposition.
In Collectorv. H2ubbard, supra the distinction between
a corporation and its stockholders Was recognized and
that 'the stockholder had no- title for certain purposes to
the. earning- of the corporation, net or other, prior to a
dividend being declired, but they might become capital
invqstment in permanent improvements .and.thereby
increase the market value of the shares, "whether held
by the original subscribers or by assignees." In other
words',it was held that the investments of the corporation
were the investments of the stockholders; that is, its
stockholders could have an interest, taxable under the
act considered, though not identical with the corporation.
This, was repeated in Bailey v. Railroad Company, 22
Wall. 604, 635, 636.
The latter case came here again in 106 U. S. '109, and
it was then declared that the pu'pose of an income tax
law was to tax the income for the year that it accrued; in
other words, no-axin contemplation of the law accrues
upon something except for the year in which that something-earnings, profits, gains or income-accrues. In.
that case the subject of the tax was a scripdividend, but

LYNCH v. TURRISH.
221.

Opinion of the Court.

the certificates did not show- the year of the earnings and
testimony as to the particular year was admitted. The
principle applies to the case at bar. Ifincrease in value
of the lands was income, it had'its particular time and
such time must have been within the time of the law to
be subject to the law, that is, it must have been after
March 1, 1913. But, according to the fact admitted,
there was no increase after that date and therefore no
increase subject to the law. There was continuity of
value, not gain or increase. In the first proposition of the
Court of Appeals we, therefore, concur.
In support of its second proposition it adduced, as we
have seen, Gray v. Darlington,15 Wall. 63. The case arose
under the income tax law of 1867, which levied "upon
the gains, profits, and income of every person,
whether derived from any kind of property . . . or
from any other source whatever, a tax of five percentum on the amount so derived over one thousand dollars

.

.

for the year ending the thirty-first day of

December next preceding the time for levying, collecting,
and paying said tax."
Darlington, in 1865, being the owner of certain United
States Treasury notes, exchanged them for United States
bonds. In 1869 he sold the bonds at an advance of
$20,000 over the cost of the notes and upon this amount
was levied a tax of five per centum as gains, profits and
income for that year. He paid the tax under protest and
sued to recover, and prevailed. This court, by Mr.
Justice Field, said: "The question presented is whether
the advance in the value of the bonds, during this period
of four years, over their cost, realized by their sale, was
subject to taxation as gains, profits, or income of the
plaintiff for. the year in which the bonds were sold. The
answer which should be given to this question does not,
in our judgment, admit of any doubt. The advance in
the value of property during a series of years can, in no

239"

OCTOBER TERM, -1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S,

justsense,*be considered the gains, profits, or income of
anyone particular year of the series, although the entire
amount of the advance be at one time turned into money
by a sale of the property. The statute looks, with some
exceptions, for subjects of taxation only- to annual gains,
profits, and income."
And again, "The mere fact that property has advanced
in value between the date of its acquisition and sale does
not authorize the imposition of a tax on the, amount of
the advance. Mere advance in value in no sense constitutes the gains, profits, or income specified by the statute.
It constitutes and can be treated merely as increase of
capital.'', This case has not been since questioned or
modified.
The Government feels the impediment of the case and
attempts to confine its ruling to the exact letter of the
Act of March 2, 1867, and thereby distinguish that act
from the Act of 1913 and give .to the latter something of
retrospective effect. Opposed to this there is a presumption, resistless except against an intention imperatively
clear. The Government, however, makes its view depend
upon disputable differences between certain words of the
two acts. It urges that the 'Act of 1913 makes the income
taxed one "arising or accruing" in the preceding calendar
year, while the Act of 1867 makes the income one "de-.
rived." Granting that there is a shade of difference
between the words, it cannot be granted that Congress
made that shade a :criterion. of intention and committed
the, construction of its 'legislation to the disputes of
purists., Besides, the cont~ntion of the Government does
not reach the principle of Gray v. Darlinglon, which is
that the gradual advance in the value of property during
a series of -years in no just sense can be ascribed to a particular year, not therefore as "arising or accruing," to
meet the challenge of the words, in the last one of the
years, as the Government contends, and taxable as income

