OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U. S.

of mining property in Stratton's Independence v. Howbert,
supra, and the application of the principles therein laid
down in the subsequent cases of Stanton v. Baltic Mining
Co., 240 U. S. 103, and Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land
Co., supra, it is unnecessary to enter upon further consideration of the matters disposed of in those cases. We
find no occasion to depart from the principles therel announced, or the rulings therein made. They have been
r
maffrmed
in the case of United States v. BiwabikMining
Co., ante,116. In this view it follows that the first and
*second questions must be answered in the negative, and
that it is unnecessary to answer the third and fourth

questions.
So ordered.

NOPZTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY v. STATE OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO H SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 240. Argued March 22, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
The "license fee," laid by Wiscednsin on domestic "level-premium"
lif insurance companies doing business in .the State, of 3% of the
gross income from all sources during the year, except rents from
real estate and premiums collected outside Wisconsin on policies of
non-residents, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, is a
commutation tax in lieu of all other taxes on the personal property
of the companies taxable in Wisconsin.
Asuming, but not-deciding, that the foreign investment business of
such a company, involving shipments of securities, correspondencd,
etc.; beyond the State, amounts to interstate commerce, such a tax
casts no burden upon such commerce, where the grosg receipts are
in effect used as a fair measure of the value of the property and franchise taxable, but not otherwise taxed, within the State.
A tax on life insurance business is not a tax on interstate commer'ce.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. r. WISCONSIN.
132.

133

.Opinion of tha Court.

It is not an arbitrary discrimination against domestic life insurance
corporations, amounting to a denial of the equal protection of the
laws, for a State to tax them by taking a percentage of their gross
receipts, while exacting a fixed and comparatively slight fee from
similar foreign corporations for the privilege of doing local business
of the same kind. Soilern R11. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, distinguished.
Neither is such arbitrary discrimination involved in imposing a license
or privilege tax upon domestic old-line, level-premium companies,
while exempting fraternal societies, having lodge organizations and
insuring only the lives of their own members.
163 Wisconsin, 484, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harry L. Butler, with whom Mr. John M. Olin, Mr.
Byron H. Stebbins and Mr. Ray M. Stroud were on the
briefs, for plaintiff.in error.
Mr. Walter Drew, with whom Mr. Spencer Haven.,
Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIdcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to recover certain taxes or license
fees paid by the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company to the State of Wisconsin; the same were paid
under protest, and this action was to recover $482,193.23
paid in 1912, and $505,643.22 in 1913. The case was decided in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, upon demurrer
to the original and amended complaints, and julgment
was rendered in favor of the State. 163 Wisconsin, 484.
The taxes in question were collected under the statutes
of Wisconsin. (§ 1220, Wis. Stats. of 1911, being § 51.32
of the later Stats.; § 1221, now § 51.33, being the so-called
retaliatory law; § 1222, subsec. 5 of § 1947, and § 1948.)
The substance of the statute immediately involved is
thus stated by the plaintiff in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Cburt.

"'Every. company

.

247 U. S.

transacting the business

of life insurance within this state,' (excepting only such
fraternal societies-as have lodge organizations and insure
.only the lives of their own members) shall annually, on or
before March 1, pay 'in lieu of all taxes for any purpose
authorized by the laws of this state' (except taxes on
real estate), certain prescribed license fees 'for transacting such business."'
It appears that fraternal societies with lodge organizations insuring only the lives of their own members are
not subject to this tax, and foreign level premium companies, similar to the plaintiff in error, are subject to an
annual tax of but $300.00 liable to increase under the
so-called-retaliatory'law according as other States impose
like taxes on similar companies of Wisconsin. Assessment
and stipulated premium companies, domestic and foreign
are taxed $300.00, or as to foreign companies such--larger
amounts as may be imposed under the retaliatory law.
The license when granted authorizes the company to
transact business until the -first of March of the ensuing
year unless sooner revoked or forfeited.
The contentions of a federal nature, raised by the
plaintiff in error, are that this license tax imposes an unlawful burden upon interstate commerce in contravention
of § 8, Article 1 of the Federal Constitution; that it violates
the Fourteenth Amendment in denying the equal protection of the Iws to the Northwestern Company by
arbitrarily discriminating against it and in favor of foreign
insurance companies, and between it and fraternal associations, both domestic and foreign; that it violates te
Fourteenth Amendment in imposing an arbitrary, discriminatory, and confiscatory burden upon the Northwestern Company.
As to the annual license fee, it is made up as follows:
"Domestic companies. (1) If such company, corporation or association. is organized under the laws of -this

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. . WISCONSIN.
132.

135

Opinion of the Cbuit.

state, and is not purely an assessment or stipulateid premium plan company under chapter 270, laws of 1899 -(sec.
1955-1), three per centum of its gross inconle from all
sources for the year ending December thirty-first, next
prior to said first day of March, excepting therefrom income from rents of real estate upon which said company,
corporation or association has paid the taxes assessed
thereon, and excepting also premiums collected outside
of the state of Wisconsin on policies held by nonresidents
of the state of Wisconsin. In ascertaining the income
upon which such license *fee shall be computed as aforesaid, no deduction shall be made from premiums, whether
paid in cash or premium notes, on account of dividends
allowed or paid to the insured." [Wis. Stats. 1913,
§ 51.32.]
The statute also provides that such license fee shall be
in lieu of all taxes for any purpose authorized by the laws
of the State except taxes on real estate. The Northwestern Company was thus obliged to pay 3% of its
gross income less income from rents of real estate, and
less premium-receipts from outside of the State.
Before entering upon a consideration of the errors assigned the nature and effect of this system of taxation must
be borne in mind. The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company is a corporation of the State. of Wisconsin, having large reserves in that State, having a taxable situs therein. 'Of this statute the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin said:
"It covers all the contributions which the state demands from the company or its business except realestate taxes, which axe relatively small in amount. It is
common knowledge that all of the great level-premium
insurance companies of the present day have vast reserve funds, to protect their liabilities on policies, running
up into the hundreds of millions of dollars, and that these
reserves are invested in: interest-bearing securities, of

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

which real-estate loans secured by mortgage generally
form the largest part. In the complaint in the present
case it appears that on December 31, 1911, the plaintiff
had outstanding loans- secured by real-estate mortgages
amounting to $153,562,654-39, of which only $5,654,369.10
covered real estate in Wisconsin. It also appears that the
plaintiff's income from real-estate mortgages for the year
ending on said last named date amounted to $7,446,393.10
and its income from bonds to $3,172,489.58. These securities are all credits, i. e., personal property of an intangible character, the situs of which for the purposes of
taxation is in this state at the residence of the corporation."
And in the opinion on the filing of the amended complaint, added:
"In this connection it is argued that if a personal prop-

erty tax had been levied on the plaintiff's reserve, consisting of securities and credits, there would have been
deducted from the amount thereof, under the existing
policy of the state with regard to the taxation of such
property, its liabilities to policyholders, i. e., the present
value of its outstanding policies valued as required by
law, which is about ninety per cent. of the reserve. It
is also argued that if the plaintiff had-been subjected to
income taxation under the state law it would have paid
much less than under the three per cent. license fee requirement.
"We do not regard either contention as well founded,
Our statutes governing the taxation of securities and
credits for many years provided that there should'be ex-'
empted from taxation so much thereof as 'shall equal the
amount of bona fide and unconditional debts by him owing.' This provision was repealed by the Income Tax
Law, which marked the abandonment of the attempt to
levy personal property taxes upon that species of property.
Ch.'658, Laws 1911.
"It seems entirely clear that the liability to policy-

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. r. WISCONSIN.
132.

137

Opinion of the Court.

holders which the plaintiff refers to is not in any sense an
'unconditional debt,' and as the policy of the state has
never extended the exemption to any liability short of an
unconditional debt we are unable to see any soundbasis
for the argument made.
"As to the contention that if the plaintiff were tixed
under the income tax system its burden would be far less
than under the present license system, weA shall not attempt to go into the arguments and figures presented in
detail. It is sufficient to say that we do not think it appears from the allegations of the amended complaint that
the plaintiff now pays substantially greater sums than it
would pay under either the income taxation system or
the former personal property taxation system.
"At all events there does not affirmatively appear to
be any such disparity as would condemn the law as arbitrarily discriminatory."
While these views of the nature and effect of the law
are not conclusive upon us, they are accepted unless they
appear to be ill-:founded, and we find no reason to reject
them. The tax in question is, therefore, not only. one for
the privilege of doing life insurance business within the
State, but is in effect a commutation tax, levied by the
State in place of all other taxation upon the personal
property of the company in the State *ofWisconsin.
It is insisted "that because of the foreign investment
business, of the company, large in amount, and involving
shipments of securities, correspondence, etc., beyond the
State, this law burdens interstate commerce. We need
not reiterate the reasoning upon which this court has repeatedly held that a State may not by its systeih. of taxation impose burdens upon interstate commerce, the cases
have been recently reviewed and the doctrine reaffirmed.
Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S.178; Internati6nal Paper
Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S.135; Cheney Brothers Co.'
v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
-

Opinion: of the Court.

247 U. S.

The construction of the act by the state court brings the
case within the decisions of this court in U. S. Express
Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Cudahy Packing Co. v.
Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450. In the former case a coimmutation tax upon gross receipts of the express company
from state and interstate business was sustained as casting no burden upon interstate commerce. In th6 Cudahy
Packing Co. Case a tax of like character was held not a
burden upon interstate commerce, although much of
the gross receipts, whibh measured the property tax, was
derived from such commerce. In both of these cases,
following the previous' decisions of this court, the tax was
held to be within the authority of the State, and the inclusion in the measure of taxation of the receipts partly
derived from interstate commerce was held not to invalidate the tax, its amount not being in excess of what
would be legitimate as an ordinary tax on the property
taken at its value.
We have said thus much as to the-alleged invalidity of
this license tax as a burden upon interstate commerce,
without deciding, as we do not find it necessary to decide,
whether the so-called foreign investment business of the
company does or does not of itself amount to interstate
,commerce. If it amounts to commerde of that character
no burden is cast upon it by such tax as is here involved,
since the gross receipts coming from that character of
business are used only as a measure of the value of the
property and franchise lawfully taxable in the State.
That the tax upon the"life insurance business, which is
the subject-matter of the license tax here involved, is
not a. tax upon interstate commerce is established by a
reference to the recent full consideration of the subject
by thiscourt. New York Life Insurance Co. v. Deer Lodge
County, 231 U. S. 495.
- This brings us to the question whether the statute denies
to the company the equal protection of the laws. That

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. WISCONSIN.
132.

139

Opinion of the Court.

the State is not because of the Fourteenth Amendment
required to tax all property alike, and may classify the
subjects selected for taxation, is too well established to
require citation of the many cases in this court which
have so held. The classification may not be arbitrary and
must rest upon real differences-subject to these qualifications the State has a wide discretion. In this connection the Northwestern Company contends that the tax
upon it is so different from that imposed upon foreign
level-premium companies doing a like business within the
State that an arbitrary discrimination, amounting to a
denial of equal protection, is exercised as against it and
in favor of the foreign company. As we "have already
said, the foreign companies of like character pay a privilege or occupation tax in the sum of $300.00 per annum.,
The state court held, and we think properly so, that foreign insurance companies occupy a relation to the State
which is different from that of a domestic company. The
latter has within the borders and taxing jurisdiction of
the State a large amount of personal property, receiving
protection, and subject to taxation. The foreign company
has its reserves in the State of its domicile, and there subject to local taxation, which is of itself a substantial
difference. Moreover, we have held that it is no deuial
of equal protection for a State to impose a different rate
upon one of its own corporations than that imposed upon
a foreign corporation, for the privilege of doing business
within its borders. Kansas City, Memphii & Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111, 118. In the case
of Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, this court
said:
"(
.
a State does not surrender or abridge its
power to change and revise its taxing system and tax
rates by merely licensing or permitting a foreign corporation to engage in local business and acquire property
within its limits, and, second, that 'a State may impose a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

different rate of taxation upon a foreign corporation for
the privilege of doing business within the State than it
applies to its own c6rporations upon the franchise which
the State grants in creating them.' Kansas City, Memphis
& Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111, 118."
But, it is said that these decisions are opposed to the
decision of this court in Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400. In that case the "railway corporation of another State came into the State of Alabama in compliance with its laws, paid the license and property taximposed upon other corporations doing business within the
State, under sanction of the laws of the State acquired a
large amount of railroad property therein, when it was attempted to subject.it to a further tax for the privilege Qf
doing business as a foreign corporation, which tax was
not imposed upon domestic corporations doing the same
kind of business in the same manner, and it was held that
such classification was arbitrary and void under the
Fourteenth Amendment. In that case we laid stress upon
the fact that the tax related to railroad property not susceptible of other uses, which placed in the State had to
remain there permanently, and could not be withdrawn
at the pleasure of its owners. Under such circumstances,
and dealing with that character of property, we held that
the particular tax constituted :such discrimination as to
-deny to the company'the equal protection of the laws.
That case was distinguished in the decision in Kansas
City, Memphis & Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles, supra,
and also in disposing of the case of the White Company
involved in Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts, supra.
The difference between the Southern Ry. Co. Case and
the one under consideration is quite obvious.
As to the alleged discrimination between old-line levelprqmium companies and beneficial associations, which
are exempted from taxation under this statute, we think
the differences are plain. The fraternal and beneficial

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. WISCONSIN.
132.

141

Opinion of.the Court.

features are wanting in organizations like that of the
Northwestern Company. The ascertainment and collection of premiums and payments for insurance are upon
wholly different plans. As to the alleged discrimination
in favor of stipulated premium companies and assessment
companies, the plaintiff in. error in its brief says that no
domestic company of these classes and but one foreign
company existed in Wisconsin in 1912, and that as to this
its argument as to discrimination in favor of foreign leVelpremium companies applies. What we have already said
disposes of that contention. We find no reason to disagree with the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in the conclusion that differences upon which classification rests in
this statute are not fanciful, but real and substantial,
and that the. dissimilarities in treatment fall short of that
arbitrary classification which amounts to a denial of the
equal protection of the laws.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin.

Atrmed.
MR. JusicE CL&.= took no part in the consideration*
or decision of this case.

