450

OCTOBER. TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U.-S.

inwhich they were secured until the action was supposed
U-bqbarred by the lapse of'six years.
The. edgree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is..

:

-:

_A$

rmed.

MR,--JusTzCE McKENNA and" MR. JUsTIcE VAN DEVANTER dissent.
. MR. JUsTIcE McREYNOLDS took no part in this deci-

Son.

JIM BUTLER TONOPAH MINING COMPANY v.
WEST END CONSOLIDATED MINING COM-,

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEVADA.

No. 249. Argued March 26, 27, 1918.-Decided June 10, 1918.
The end lines of a lode mining claim, in the sense of the mining law,
are those which are laid across the vein to show how much of it in
length is appropriated and claimed by the miner. All other lines are
sidelines.
To sustain the extralateral right, the end lines must be parallel and
straight, but this is not required of the side lines.
A mining claim was laid out as a parallelogram 1500 by 600 feet, but
with two diagonally opposite angles truncated so that what would
'have been end lines in the absence of the truncation were thereby
shortened substantially, but less than one half. Hdd, that these
shortened lines, which were straight and parallel, were the end lines
within the meaning of the mining law and for the purpose of de-termining the extralateral -right, and that the truncating lines were
parts of the side lines.
The extralateral right is a criation of the federal mining lys and they
alone must be looked'to in defining it.
WThere a single vein, whose apex is within the boundaries of th claim,
in it,4 descent separates into two limbs-one being the discoveryveif

JIM BUTLER MIN. CO. v. WEST END MIN. CO.
450.

451

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

--which dip downward through the vertical planes of the side lines,
the extralateral right, its other elements being present, applies to each.
The findings showed a fissure'vein with two dipping limbs whose course
downward was subsfantial, regular and practically free from undu-

lation. For 750 feet out of a total length of 1150 feet within the
claim each was practically a separate vein with a distinct summit
or terminal edge.. For the remaining 400 feet the two were united
and from the place of union mineralized rock continued upward for
from 20 or 30 to 100 feet. There 'was no contention that. a top or
apex had been found elsewhere. Held, that it could not be said as
a matter of Jaw that there was no top or apex within the claim,
in the sense of the mining law.
39 Nevada, 375, affirmed.

T~m case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. CurtisH. Lindley, with whom Mr. -HughH. Brown,
Mr. Win. E. Colby and Mr. J. H. Evans were on the-brief,
for plaintiff in error:
One of the essential elements of an apex is a "terminal
edge"; and, when the vein turns over and dips in the opposite direction, the resulting anticlinal roll has no legal
apex, as is held by all the authorities that have considered
the question. Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Murphy, 3 Fed.
Rep. 368, 371, 375; Stevens v. Williams,-Fed. Cas. No.
13,413, pp. 40, 43; Stewart Min. Co. v. Ontario Min. Co.,
237 U. S. 350, 360; Alameda Min. Co. v. Success Min. Co.,
29 Idaho, 618, 630; Eureka Cons. Min. Co. v. Richmond
Min.ICo., 4 Sawyer, 302, 311; Duggai v. Davey, 4 Dakota,
110; IllinoisSilver M. Co. v. Raff, 7 N. Mex. 336; Costigan,
Mining Law, 139; Barringer and Adams, Law of Mines
and Mining, 442; Shamel, Mining, Mineral and Geolog.
Law, 193, 194; Mines and Minerals, 27 Cyc. 537; Raymond, Glossary of Min. and Met. Terms.; Trans.'Am.
Inst., M. E., Vol. IX, 102.
Section 2322 of the Revised Statutes does not justify the
exercise of an extralateral right on the same vein on two
downward courses and in opposite directions, since

6JOTOBER TERM,.1917.
Opinion ofthe Court.

247 U. S.

the wording of the statute will nt 'per it such a construction. -,This is especially true Where the limb of the
vein on which the discovery was made dips in the opposite direction from the limb -n which the disputed ore
bodies occur. I
Tthewesterly end line of the West End claim is a broken
line; which is in contravention of the mandatory provision
of the statute requiring end lines to be parallel and neces-

sarily straight.
Mr. W. H. Dickson, with whom Mr. S. S. Downer, Mr.
A. C. Ellis, Jr., and Mr. H. H- Atkinson were on the brief,
for defendant in error..
MR. JUSTiCE VA

Dnv..TErR delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit, by the owner of two lode mining claimsthe Eureka and the Curtis-to enjoin the owner of an
adjoining lode claim-the West End-from .exercising
an asserted extralateral right in respect of a vein extending beneath the surface from the latter claim'into the
others. All the claims are patented and their ownership
is conceded. The Eureka adjoins the West End on the
south and the Curtis lies immediately south of the Eureka.
The state courts, both trial and appellate upheld the
defendant's asserted right to follow the vein extralaterally,
39 Nevada, 375, and the plaintiff seeks a reversal of that
. decision on the theory that it is in contravention of the
mining laws of Congress, in that (a) the end lines of the
West End claim are not parpllel and straight, and -therefore an essential element of the right to follow the vein
extralaterally is wanting, (b) this right can be exercised
only -in one direction, that is, beyond one side line, not
both, -and as the discovery vein I dips to the north the
'The discovery was on the noritherly limb hereinafter described.

JIM BUTLER MIN. CO. v. WEST END MIN. CO.
450.

453

Opinion of the Court.

right canbe exercised only in that direction, and (c) the
facts specially found do not show that the top or apex
of the vein is within the vertical limits of the West End
claim.
For present purposes the West End claim may be described as having the form of a parallelogram 1500 feet
in length from east to west and 600 feet in width from
north to south, but with a small portion of the northeast
corner cut off'by a diagonal line and a somewhat larger
portion of the southwest comer similarly cut off (see
diagram, 39 Nevada, 389). Thus what would be the
end lines of the parallelogrdm, if it were complete, are
substantially shortened, but the major part of each remains. These shortened lines are not only parallel but
straight. Are they the end lines of the claim in the sense
of the statute? Or do its end lines consist of the shortened,
lines and the diagonal lines? End lines in the sense of
the statute are those which are laid across the vein to
show how much of it, in point of length, is appropriated
and, claimed by the miner. All other lines are side lines.
True, the end lines must be both parallel and straight,
Rev. Stats., §§ 2320, 2322; Walrath v. Champion Mining
Co., 171 U. S. 293, 311, but it is not so with the side lines.
They may have angles and elbows and be converging or
diverging so long as their general course is along the vein
and the statutory restriction on the width of claims is
respected. Del Monte Mining Co. v. L.ast Chance Mining
Co., 171 U. S. 55, 84. Applying these tests to the bounding lines of the West End claim, we regard it as plain
that the diagonal lines at the two comers are part of its
side lines, and not of its end lines. In this respect the
case is like Walrath v. Champion Mining Co., supra,
where in determining what was the northerly end line
of the Providence claim (see diagram, 171 U. S. 298),
the line g-h was held to be the true end line and the diagoial line f-g to be no part of it. Thus the objection that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion 9f the Court.

247 U.S.

the end lines of the West End claim are not parallel and
straight is untenable.
What in mining cases is termed the extralateral right
is a creation of the mining laws of Congress, and to learn
what it is we must look to them rather than to some
system of law to which it is a stranger. Besides, as Congress has plenary power over the disposal of the mineralbearing public lands, it rests with it to say to what extent, if at all, the right to pursue veins on their downward
course into the earth shall pass to and be reserved for
those to whom it grants'possessory or other titles in such
lands. What it has said is this, Rev. Stats., §2322:
"The locators of all mining locations

.

.

.

on any

mineral vein, lode, or ledge, situated on the public domain, their heirs and assigns, . . . shall have the
exclusive right of -possession and enjoyment of all the
surface included within the lines of their locations, and
of all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their entire
depth, the top or'apex of which lies inside of such surface-lines; extended downward vertically, although such
veins, lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their course downward as to extend out*side the vertical side-lines of -such surface locations.
But their right of possession to such outside parts of such
veins or ledges shall be confined to such portions thereof
as lie between vertical planes drawn downward as above
.described, through the end-lines of their locations, so
continued in their own direction, that such planes will
intersect such exterior parts of such veins or ledges."
-'Itwill be seen that the extralateral right so created is
subject to three limitations. One conditions it on the
presence of the top or apex inside the boundaries of the
claim. Another restricts it to the dip or course downward,
and.so excludes the strike or ontvard course along the'top
or apex. And the last confines it to such outside parts as
lie between the end lines continued outwardly in their own

JIM BUTLER MIN. CO. r. WEST END MIN. CO. 455
450.

Opinion of the Court.

direction and extended vertically downward. But othorwise it is without limitation or exception and broadly
includes "all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their
entire depth,"-one as much as another, and all whether
they depart through one side line or the other. Given two
veins which in their dscent pass, one through one side
line and the other through the other side line, how could
it be held that the right applies to one vein and not to the
other, when the statute says "all veins
.
. throughout their entire depth"? By what rule would a court be
guided in making a selection between the two when the
statute makes none? And where a single vein in its
descent separates ihto two limbs which depart through
the opposite side lines, on what theory could the right
be sustained as to one limb and rejected as to the other?
The terms of the statute, as we think, do not lend themselves to any such distinctions, but, on the contrary,
show that none such is intended.
In Mining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 U. S. 463, 467, this court in
pointing-out the intent of the statute said that "the end
lineg are to cross the lode and extend perpendicularly
downwards, and to be continued in their own direction
either way horizontally." And in Del Monte Mining Co.
v. Last Chance Mining Co., 171 U. S. 55, a case in which
the statute was much considered, it was said, p. 88:
"Every vein whose apex is within the vertical limits of
his surface lines passes to him by virtue of his location.
He is not limited to only those veins which extend from
one end line to another, or from one side line to another,
or from one line of any kind to another, but he is entitled
to every vein whose top or apex lies within his surface
lines. Not only is he entitled to all veins whose apexes
are within such limits, but he is entitled to them throughout their entire depth, 'although such veins, lodes or
ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their
course downward as to extend outside the vertical gide

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

*lines of such surface locations.' lIn other words, given a
vein whose apex is.-ithin his surface limits he can pursue
that vein as far as he pleases in its downward course outside Ihe vertical side lines." And again, p. 89: "The
16cadtor is given a right to pursue any vein, whose apex is
within his surface limits, on its dip outside the vertical
side lines,. ut may not in such pursuit go beyond the
vertical end lines." In Calhoun Gold Mining Co. v. Ajax
Gold Mining Co., 182 U. S. 499, it was added, p. 508:
"There are no exceptions to its language. fThe locators
'5fany mineral veins, lode or ledge' are jiven not only
'an exclusive right of possession and en3oyment' of all
the surface included within the lines of their locations, but
'of all veins, lodes and ledges throughou' their entire depth,
the top or apex of which lies inside o such surface lines
extended downward vertically.' A locator therefore is
not confined to the vein upon which he based his location
and upon which the discovery was made." And also,
p. 509: "Blind veins are not excepted, and we cannot
except them. They are included in the description 'all
,yeins' and belong to the surface location."
We conclude therefore ithat, when the other elements
of the extralateral right lare present, it may be exercised
beyond- either or both side lines depending on the direction which the departing vein or veins take in their downward course.
So much of the special finding as bears onthe character
of the vein and the presence of its top or apex inside the
vertical lines of the W6st End claim is as follows:
'tThe said vein does not on its upward course, or at
its top or apex, outcrop or reach-the present surface, but
s "covered or buried to a considerable ddpth by lava,
lochlly known as and called 'Midway' andesite, which,
after, the formation of the vein, flowed over the then surface'of the territory in, which the vein exists; that at and
for a distance of 360 feet westerly from where said vein

JIM BUTLER MIN. CO. v. WEST END MIN. CO.
450.

-

457

Opinion of the Court.

or lode crosses the easterly end line of said West End
claim, which crossing is at a distance of 135 feet northerlyfrom the southeast'corner of said West End claim, there
is a juncture or union between two limbs or sides of said
vein, and from thee summit of said juncture or union
the downward course of one limb or side thereof is in a
northerly direction, and the downward course of the
other limb or side thereof is in a southerly direction; that
there is a continuation upward from the summit of said
juncture or union of said northerly and southerly dipping
limbs or sides of said vein of ore and silver-bearing quartz
or rock in place for a distance'from 20 or 30 to more than
100 feet, and to what was the surface bef6re the same was
buried beneath the said lava flow; -that such ore and
"silver-bearing quartz were deposited where the same are
now found at the same time and during the same period
that the main vein below was created, and from mineralbearing solutions having the same source; that the dip
.is
fairly conformable, and the strike or course of such upward continuation of ore and silver-bearing quaitz- is
conformable to the dip and strike or course of said northerly dipping limb or side of said vein from the summit of
said juncture downward, and the Court finds that said
upward continuation is a part of said vein or lode; that
thence westerly, and for a distance of 360 feet, the northerly and southerly dipping limbs, sides, or slopes of said
vein do not unite or form a union or juncture in their
upward course, but for that distance each of said limbs
or sides has a separate and independent top or apex; that
thence westerly, for a distance of 40 feet, the northerly
and southerly'dipping limbs, sides or slopes of said vein
are again found in conjunction, as in the said most easterly
360 feet; that thence westerly, and until said northerly
And southerly dipping limbs, sides, or slopes of said vein
intersect with and cross said northerly side line of said
mining claim, they do not unite or form a union or june-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

ture intheir upward course, but for that distance I each
of said limbs or sides has a separate and independent
top or 4apex; that between said -distance of 40 feet, where
said northerly and southerly dipping limbs, sides, or
slopes of said v'ein, as aforesaid, unite or form a union
or juncture in their course upward and said points on
said northerly side line of said mining claim where, as
aforesaid, said contra-dipping limbs, sides, or slopes of
said vein respectively inters ct said side line and cross
the same and so depart from said mining claim, there
are two points at which it appears that said contra-dipping
limbs, side or slopes of said vein on their upward course
approach closely to a juncture or union but as to said
contra-dipping limbs, sides or slopes of said vein at said
two points actually forming a juncture or union on their
upward course, the evidence is meager and unsatisfactory; that the point where the said northerly dipping
limb or side of said vein departs from the said mining
claim through the northerly side line thereof is 1120 feet
westerly from the northeast corner of said claim, measured along the northerly side line thereof; that the point
where' said- southerly dipping limb or side of said vein
departs from said mining claim through the northerly
sid6 line thereof is 1142Y4 feet westerly from the northeast corner of said claim, measured along the northerly
side lin6 thereof; that throughout said distance of 40 feet,
where the contra-dipping limbs on sides of said vein are
found in conjunction, as hereinbefore stated, there is a
continuation upward from the summit of the juncture or
union of said twu limbs or sides of said vein of ore or vein
quartz to what was the surface before the same was covered-by the lava flow; that the dip or downward course of
both the northerly and southerly dipping sides or limbs of
the vein where the two are found in conjunction, as
aforesaid, and also in the places where each, as aforesaid,
'pproaching

400 feet.

JIM BUTLER MIN. CO. v. WEST END MIN. CO.
450.

459

Opinion of the Court.

has its separate and independent top or apex, is regular
and practically free from undulations; that the said
southerly dipping limb or side of the vein in the easterly
portion of the West End claim, that is to say, the easterly
360 feet thereof, has been developed from the top or
summit of said juncture of said contra-dipping limbs to
and beyond the southerly side line of said claim, or for a
distance, measured on the slope or downward course of.
said southerly dipping limb or side, of 800 feet or thereabouts, the average dip there being 17 degrees from the
horizontal; that the westerly portion, that is to say, the
westerly 300 feet of said southerly dippinglimb or side
of said vein found 'in the West End claim, has been developed from its top to and beyond the southerly side
line of said claim, or for a distance, measured on its slope
*or downward course, of 1000 feet or thereabouts, the
average dip there being 30 degrees from the horizontal;
that the average dip of said northerly dipping limb, or
side of said vein, so far as the same has been developed
in its downward course, is 17 degrees from the horizontal;
that said vein is a fissure vein; that there is a difference
in the strikes or courses of said northerly and southerly
dipping limbs of said vein .of about 40 degrees; that at
said places and throughout" said distances, where said
contra-dipping limbs of said vein are found to intersect
and form a juncture, as aforesaid, there has been a mingling of the mineralizations of said two limbs of said vein
within the angle beneath the juncture of the said two
limbs; that at such places and throughout said distances
the footwall of said two limbs of said vein, within the
angle beneath their said juncture, by the process of replacement has beeh converted into mineralized quartz for
considerable distances below said juncture, said replacement quartz extending from limb to limb."
Giving due effect to the finding, it is manifest that the
vein in controversy is not a flat or horizontal vein or one

OCTOBER TERM,. 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

which would be practically horizontal but for a succession
of rolls or waves in its elevation. On the contrary, it is
shown :to be a fissure -veinwith two dipping limbs whose
coumse'downward is substantial, regular and practically
free from undulations. For 750 feet. out of its -total
length of 1150 feet within the West End claim each limb
is practically a geparate vein with a distinct summit or
terminal edge. For the remaining 400 feet the two limbs
are united and from the po*nt of union the mineralized
quartz or rock continues upward for from 20 or 30 to
more than 100 feet, and this seems to answer all the calls
of a summit or terminal edge. In these circumstances we
'hardly would be warranted in saying as matter of law
that the vein has no top or apex within the claim in the
sense of the statute. See -Stewart Mining Co. v. Ontario
Mining Co., 237 U. S. 350.
it is well to remember, as this court has indicated in
other mining cases, that to take from the, discoverer a
portion of that which he has discovered and give it to one
who may have been led to make an adjoining location by.
a knowledge of the'discovery is -unreasonable.
'I The contention-is not that the "topor apex of this vein
has been found elsewhere, but only tbat what is found in.
the West End claim is'not such in the sense of the statute.
"Th law," as has been- truly said, ",assumes that the
lode has a top, or apex, and provides for the acquisition
of title by location upon this apex." Probably this assumption could not be indulged where the fact Appeared
to be otherwise, but it serves to show that the absence of
a top orapex ought not to be adjudged in the presence
of such a-finding as we have here.
Judgment affirmed.

