LOUIS. - NASH.- R.

CRA':O
. '.' RICE.

Opinion of the Co&urt

LOUISVI=

'NASVILLE RAILROADCOMP AN'
v. RICE.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT 'OF THE UNITED STATES'FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 574. Submitted Aulli, 1918.-Deided Mak 20, 1918.'

Judicial Code, ยง 24, gives jurisdiction to the"DistriicCourta."of all
suits and proceedings ar sing under any law 'regulating commerce.?
-Held, that a suit so arises where the carriersues the consignee of an
interstate shipment of live stock to collect a charge for disinfecting
the cars, alleged to be due under tariffs approved and published as
required by the Interstat Commerce Act, and'where 2lhe consignee,
adniitting the interstat6'character of the shipment ajid-propriety of.
the charges under the act, defends on the ground that the-carrier
by its'acts is estopped from holding him responsible.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion;

Mr. George Denegre, Mr. Henry 'L. Stone, Mr Victzr
Leovy, Mr. Henry f. Chafe and Mr. Har McCal for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. T. M. Miller, Mr. John D. Miller'and Mr.,Charles
F. Fletchingerfor defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE McREYNOLDS

deliverect the opinion of the

court.

Did the District Court rightly decide that it had nd
jurisdiction, is the' only question presented.
Plaintiff in error sued to recover one hundred and fortyfive dollars claimed to be due under)tariffs approved and
published as required by Interstate Conmerce'Act, for
disinfecting fifty-eight cars containing live stok shipped

- OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.-

247 U. S.

from points outside the State and delivered to defendant,
the consignee, at New Orleans, Louisiana. It alleged presentation of bills covering each shipment and payment by
defendant of all charges except those for disinfecting-two
dollars and fifty cents per car.
Answering, defendant admitted the shipments were
interstate; that he paid all lawful charges, except those
sued for; and that these had been properly prescribed under and pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. But
he denied liability, for these reasons: As the carrier well
knew, or should have known, he had long been engaged in
the business of factor or commission merchant; in due
course while acting as representative for their owners and
consignors he received the live stock, sold them immediately -upon arrival, -deducted expenses, etc., and remittedbalance of proceeds to his principals; when the cars
arrived he paid all charges actually demanded;*he was not
then advised and remained unaware that any others were
contemplated until such balance had been remitted. Having led him to believe the amount asked and"paid before
he remitted entire net proceeds constituted full settlement,
the carrier is now estopped from demanding more of him.
The trial court upon its own initiative dismissed the
action for want of jurisdiction.
Section 24 of the Judicial Code provides that regardless of amount involved District Courts shall have original
jurisdiction "of all suits and proceedings arising under any
law regulating commerce." The .Interstate Commerce
Act requires carrier to collect and consignee to pay all
lawful charges duly prescribed by the tariff in respect of
every shipment. Their duty and obligation grow out of
and depend upon -that act
In support of the trial court it is said: There is no jurisdiction unless the suit in part at least arises out of a controversy in regard- to operation or effect of the act of
Congress. Here there is-no dispute as to legality of rate

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. RICE.
201.

Opinion of the Court.

or its application to the shipments; and consignee's liability was fully discharged upon payment by him of
amount demanded at time of. delivery and surrender of
the carrier's lien.
* "Cases arising under the laws of the United States are
such as grow out of the.legislation of Congress." Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U: S. 257, 264. "Whether a party
claims a right'under the Constitutionor laws of the United
States is to be ascertained by the legal construction of its
own allegations." Central R. R. Co. of New Jersay v.
Mills, 113 U. S. 249, 257. "'If the plaintiff really makea
substantial claim under an act .of Congress there is jurisz,
diction whether the claim ultimately be held good o'r
bad;" The Fair v. Kohler Die Co., 228 U. S. 22, 25: A.
suit arises under an act of Congress-when "it really and
substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting
the validity, construction or effect of such a law, upon thedetermination of which the result lepeuds."- Shulthis
v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561; 569. As to interstate shipments "there can be no -question that, since the decision
in the .CroningerCase [226 U. S. 4911, the parties are held,
to the responsibilities imposed by the federal law, to the
exclusion of all other rules 6f obligation." St. Louis, Iron
Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v.. Starbird, 243 U. S..592,
595; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Maxweli 237 U. S.
94, 97.
The railroad company set up a claim based upon provisions of a tariff duly filed, published and approved as
required by Interstate Commerce Act; result of the actio-.
necessarily depended upon construction and effect of
that act.
We think the District Court had jurisdiction. Its
judgment is accordingly reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

