OCTOBER -TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

.247 U. S.

GASQUIET v; FENNER, TESTAMENTARY EXECUTOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 261. Argued April 24,-1918.-Deided My 6, 1918..
When the laws of a State piovide that final settlement of an estate in
the probatecourt on behalf of a person under interdiction can only be
had upon proceedings there setting aside the interdiction or appointing a curator, a decree of a court of :another State purporting to
establish his sanity notwithstanding such interdictioh will not, by.

virtue of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution, operate
upon the interdiction directly but; at most. would be conclusive in

such probate proceedings.
In such case the District Court, sitting in the State where the estate is
being administered, can not dispense with such proceedings in the
local probate court and rpquire a settlement from the executors.
:235 Fed. Rep. 997, affirmed.

THe .case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Winans Wall and Mr. G. T. Fitzhugh,
with whom Mr. J. C. Gilmore and Mr. Thos. Gilmore were
on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. George Denegre, with-whom Mr. Victor Leoui'aild
Mr. Henry H. Chaffe were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE Homs delivered the opinion of the court.
T
is a bi brought by the appellant, alleging himself to be a citizen of Tennessee, to require the principal
appellee, the executor under his mother's will, appointed
and qualified in Louisiana, to. pay over to him one-third
of his mother's estate-that being the proportioI to which

GASQUET v. FENNER.
16.

Opinion of the Court.

he is admitted to be ultimately entitled. The defendahts
allege. that the -appellant is a citizen of Louisiana and
pronounced incapable of taking care of his person and
administering his estate, by a judgment of interdiction
of the Louisiana Courts. They say that the estate has not
yet been fully administered as no final account has been
filed and that until'the interdiction is set aside an account
can be rendered and- possession of the apspellant's share
delivered only to a curator; but that appointment of a
curator has been delayed by the appellant's having taken
a writ of error from this Court to the Supreme Court of the
-State in respect of its interdiction decree. 136 Louisiana,
957. Dismissed, .242 U. S.367.
Pending an application to the Supreme Court of the
State for a rehearing; Gasquet, who was in custody,
obtained his release on habeas corpus from a lower court,
afterwards declared by the Supreme Court to have been
without jurisdiction, and on July 28, 1914, established
himself in Tennessee. - On February 20, 1915, he filed a
petition in the Probate Court of Shelby County, Teinnessee, for an inquiry whether he was a lunatic, upon the
-same day obtained a verdict declaring him of sound mind
and on February 23 a decree to this same effect, which also
declared him entitled to settlement from all persons-having
control of any part of his estate "any disability
by reason of the proceedings against him hereinbefore
inentioned [i. e. the Louisiana ilterdict] being hereby removed." Armed with this Gasquet brought the bill in the
present case and contends that due faith and credit were
denied to the Tennessee decree when the bill was dis.missed, as it was. 235 Fed. Rep. 997.
Ordinarily, at least, a-decree in rem is conclusive as to
the facts that it eftablishes only as against parties entitled
to be heard. *TheMary, 9 Cranch, 126, 146. Tilt v. Kelsey,
207 U.S. 43, 52. Manson v. Williams, 213 U. S.453. It
may be argued that if the defendant was entitled to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

heard -he was entitled to notice of some kind, which of
course he did not receive in a proceeding that was tried
on the day when it was begun, and that if he was not
entitled to be heard he is not bound outside the limits of
Tennessee. But we are not called upon to consider whether
this and other arguments are sound that would need consideration before the plaintiff could prevail in this case,
because in our opinion the decree was right for the reason
giveni by the district judge. ' It may be called a matter of
form rather than of substance; upon that we are not
curious to inquire. It is enough that the'reason seems to
us sufficient. Article 420 of the Civil Code of Louisiana
provides that a "person interdicted cannot resume the
exercise of his rights, until after the definitive judgment
by which the repeal of the interdiction is pronounced;"
and article 421, that "interdiction can only be revoked by
the same solemnities which were observed in pronouncing
it." Whatever may be the conclusiveness of the Tennessee decree it cannot operate upon the interdiction
directly. At most it can only furnish ground for a conclusive right to have the interdiction removed. When the
state laws, as a condition for 'the final settlement of a
probate decree require either the revocation of the interdict or the appointment of a curator one'or the other
thing must be ddne. It is not enough for the party to show
that he has a right to have one of them done.
I It is said that the appellant may have his right determined by the Court of the United State, under the
decision in Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank- & Tiust
Co., 215 U. S. 33. But the short answer is that all that
could be determined in the District Court is admitted and
never has been in dispute. The only obstacle in the way
of giving-the plaintiff his share is the obstacle in the way
of a final acco~ut and settlement, which must take place
in the Probate Court. By the law of Louisiana they cannot be had until either a curator is appointed or the in-

