HAYS v. GAULEY MT. COAL CO.
179.

Counsel for Parties.

24, 1910, adopted the latter method, and the Government
makes no contention as to the accuracy of the result
thereby reached, under the stipulated facts, if our construction of the act be correct.
Judgment affirmed.

HAYS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA, v. GAULEY
MOUNTAIN COAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 327. Argued March 4, 5,- 6, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918

The Corporation Tax Act of-August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112, ยง 38,
measures' the tax by income. received during the tax year without
reference to when it accrued, provided it accrued after the act became effective. Gray v. Darlington,15 Wall. 63, distinguished.
A coal company bought shares of another coal company before, and
sold them at an advance after, the Corporation Tax Act became effective. Ield: (1) That interest should not be added to the investment as a part of the cost; (2) that so mucli, and only so much, of
the advance as could be deemed to have accrued since December 31,
1908, was part of the company's "gross income,!' within the act.
Doyle v. Milchell Brothenr Co., ante, 179.
230 Fed. Rep. 110, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry B. Closson, for respondent, submitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief. on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of Amenca,
as amwus curi..
MR,

JUSTICE PimNY delivered the opinion of the court.

Suit by the Gauley Mountain Coal Company against
the Collector to recover taxes alleged to have been unlawfully collected under Corporation -Excise Tax Act of
August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112, ยง38. The District
Court gave judgment in favor of defendant, which was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (230 Fed. Rep.
110), whereupon a writ of certiorari was allowed. The
case was submitted .together withr several other cases decided this day, arising under the same act.
The agreed facts ar6 in substance as follows: The Company is a mining corporation organized under the laws
of the -State of West Virginia. The business of trading
in stocks is not included among its corporate powers, nor
does it appear that, with a single exception, it ever bought
or sold any. On December 9, 1902, it purchased certain
sharesof another mining corporation for $800,000, and
sold them October 16, 1911, for $1,010,000, this sum being
less by $214,933.33 than the purchase price plus interest
at 6 per cent, but greater by $210,000 than cost ignoring
interest. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue held
that a proportion of the $210,000 represented by the ratio
of the 1,019 days that elapsed between January 1, 1909,
when the Corporation Excise Tax Act became effective,
and October 16, .1911, the date of the sale, to the 3,233
days that elapsed between the date of purchase and the
date of sale, constituted income of the corporation for
the year 1911 within the meaning of the act. The apportioned sum, $66,189.30, reduced to $52,506 by certain deductions not now in question, was made the basis of an
additional assessment at 1Iper cent. upon the latter sum;

HAYS v. GAULEY MT. COAL CO.
189.

Opinion of the Court.

and this assessment, having been collected by duress,
formed the subject of the present suit.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the
principal contentions made by respondent in support of
it, are based upon the decision of this court in Gra v. Darlington, 15 Wall. 63. , That case arose under the Act of Congress of March 2, 1867, c. -169, ยง 13, 14 Stat. 477, which
provided that a certain tax should be levied, collected,
and paid annually upon the amount over, $1,000 of the
gains, profits, and incorie of every person, declaring that
"the tax herein provided for .shall be assessed, collected,
and paid upon the gains, profits, and income for the year
ending the thirty-first day of December next preceding
the time for levying, collecting, and paying said tax."
There was this further provision: "That, in estimating
the gains, profits, and income of any person, there shall be
included all income derived from interest upon notes,
bonds, and other securities of the United States; profits
realized within the year from sales of real estate purchased
within the year or within two years previous to the year
'for which income is estimated

.

.

.

and all other

gains, profits, and income derived from any sources whatever," with an exception that need not be stated. It appeared that plaintiff acquired certain United States bonds
in the year 1865 and sold them in 1869 at an advance of
$20,000 over their cost, and was taxed upon, this amount
as gains, profits, and income for the latter year. This
court held that by the true construction of the act, except
as to gains and profits from trade and commerce and sales
of real. property, the statute only applied to such gains,
profits, and 'income as were strictly acquisitions made
during the year preceding that in which the assessment
was levied and collected. We do not regard the decision
as controlling, because the language of the act now under
consideration is different in material particul~rs. As
pointed out.in Doyle v. Mitchell Brothers Co., ante, 179,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

it imposes annually a special excise tax with respect to the
carrying on or doing business by the corporation "equivalent to one per centum upon the entir net income over
and above five thousand dollars received by it from all
sources during such year," to be ascertained by taking
gross income and-applying certain exceptions axid deductions. "Gains, profits, and income for the year ending
the thirty-first day of December next preceding" (Act
of 1867) conveys a different meaning from "the entire
net income

.

received by it

. . . during such

year" (Act of 1909). The former expression, as this court
held (15 Wall. 65), denoted "such gains or profits as may
be realized from a business transaction begun and completed during the preceding year," with the exceptions
already mentined. The expression "income reived
during such year," employed in the Act of 1909; looks to
the time of realization rather than to the period of accruement, except as the'taking effect of the act on a specified
date (January 1, 1909), excludes income that accrued
before that date. There are other differences upon which
we need not dwell.
As we construe the latter act, it measured the tax by
the income received within the year for which the assess-.
ment was levied, whether it accrued within that year
or in some preceding year while the act was in effect; but
it excluded all income that accrued prior to January 1,
1909, although afterwards received while the act was in
effect.
This brings us to consider whether the proceeds of the
sale of stock by respondent in October, 1911, included
anything, and if so how much, of "income" accruing on
or after January'l, 1909,. as the term "income" is employed in the. act.
That' he saie-resulted in a gain or profit to the extent
of $210,000, the difference between the buying and selling prices, is not to be doubted, for there is no merit in the

HAYS r. GAULEY MT. COAL CO.
189.

Opinion of the Court.

contention that interest should be added to the purchase
price in order to ascertain its cost. The money that went
into the purchase was not loaned at interest; on the contrary, by the very fact of the purchase it was placed where
it could not earn interest for the respondent in the ordinary sense, and the gain represented by the increase of selling price over cost price must be regarded as a substitute
for whatever return some other form of investment might
have yielded.
It results that so much of the $210,000 of profits as may
be deemed to have acceued subsequent to December 31,
1908, must be treated as a part of the "gross income" of
respondent. For it is the simple case bf a conversion of
capital assets acquired before and turned into money after
the taking effect of the act; and, as we have shown in
Doyle v. Mitchell Brothers Co., ante, 179, since the conversion of capital often results in gain, the general purpose
of the Act of 1909 to measure the, tax by the increase
arising from corporate activities together with the income
from invested property leads to the inference that that
portion of the gross proceeds which represents gain or
increase acquired after. the taking effect of the act must
be regarded as "gross income"; and to this end it must
be distinguished from that portion which represents a
return of the capital value existing before. In order to do
this, it is necessary to ascertain what was the value of the
capital assets on December 31, 1908. Whether this
should be done by taking inventory upon the basis of
market values then existing, or whether the entire increment accruing between the time of acquiring and the
time of disposing of the assets should be prorated as if
it had arisen through a series of gradual and imperceptible augmentations, is a matter of detail, to be settled
according to the best evidence obtainable, and in accordance with valid departmental regulations. Treasury Regulations No, 31, December 3, 1909, provided

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

for inventories at the beginning and end of each. year
with respect to manufacturing and mercantile companies;
and with regard to a sale of capital assets acquired
prior to January 1, 1909, and sold thereafter, required
that the amount of increment. or depreciation representing the difference between the selling and buying prices
should be adjusted so as fairly to determine the proportion of the loss or gain arising subsequent to the date
*mentioned; but without prescribing any particular method
* of doing this. Subsequent rulings required that sales
of stocks and bonds ihould be regarded as sales of capital assets and accounted for accordingly under Regulations'No. 31, and, while still requiring inventories,
* resorted to the prorating method with respect to real
* estate, apparently on the gr6und that increases and decreases in the value of this class of property during particular periods could not be accurately determined. (T.
D. 1606, March 29, 1910, paragraphs 37, 50, 71; T. D.
1675, February 14; 1911, paragraphs 36, 48, 55, 69; T. D.
1742, December 15, 1911, paragraphs 42, 55, 62, 86.)
The present case was heard upon an agreed statement
of facts which contains nothing from which the value of
the stouck at the time the act took effect may be deduced,
otherwise than by the prorating method that was adopted;
nor is any objection made by the respondent to the application of 'that method. Hence there is no lawful ground
for overthrowing the tax, and the District Court did not
err in rendering judgment in favor of the Collector.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and that of the District Court affirmed.

