OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

247 U. S.

SUPREME COUNCIL OF THE ROYAL ARCANUM
v. BEHREND.
CERTiORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 267.

Argued April 25, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.

In the absence- of a special provision of law or rule of the association
to the contrary, the naming'of a person as beneficiary in the benefit
certificate of a fraternal benefit association confers an 'expectancy
merely, which may be defeated by the act of the insured member in
taking out a substitute certificate changing the beneficiary.
The fact that the first-named beneficiary had paid the assessments
before the change raises no legal claim upon the insurance.
A benefit certificate expressed a promise to pay the beneficiary therein
named, upon the insured member's death, provided the "certificate
shall not have been surrendered by said member and another certificate issued at his request," and bore a printed form providing for
"surrender and return" of the certificate by the member in changing
the beneficiary. Held: That the requirement of surrender *did not
necessarily imply a return of the original paper.
A requirement that a certificate of a fraternal benefit association shall
be surrendered by the insured member before a new one is issued,
is for the protection of the association, and, if waived by it or complied with to its satisfaction during the member's lifetime, it cannot
be availed of by a former beneficiary.
45 App. D. C. 260, reversed.

TH case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Howard C. Wiggins, with whom Mr. Philip Walker
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. Gwrynn Gardinerfor respondent.

ROYAL ARCANUM r. BEHREND.
394.

395 "

Opinion of the Coftrt.

MR. JusTiCE BRANms delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Supreme Council of the Royal Arcanum is incorporated under the laws of Massachusetts as a fraternal benefit society, and it is licensed as a fraternal beneficial association in the District of Columbia.' The character and purposes of the organization ind the relation
to its members are described in Supreme Council of the
Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531. Samuel K.
Behrend became a member of a local lodge of the order
in Washington, known as "Oriental Council, No. 312,
Royal- Arcanum." On March 1, 1899, a $3,000 "Benefit
Certificate" was issued to him there, payable on-his death
to his wife, Sue, as beneficiary; and there the first premium or assessment was paid., He delivered the cerItificate to her, giving it as a wedding present. From'that
time on, the certificate remained in her possession: and
until August, 1913, most of the premiums and assessments
were paid by her. On August 8, 1913, Behrend, having
ceased to live with his wife, requested the Order to change
the beneficiary from his wife to his son and his daughter.
As the original certificate was still in the wife's possession
and she refused to surrender it, Behrend made affidavit
that the.certificate was beyond his control and in writing
relinquished all interest therein. Thereupon a new certificate was issued by the Order payable to the children,
as requested; and the wife was notified that the certificate
held by her had been canceled. On. October 20, 1914,
Behrend died. On December 21, 1914, the Order paid to'
his son and to his daughter each $1,500 upon surrender of
the new certifidate. Thereafter. the widow brought, in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, this action
to recover $3,000 under the original certificate.
I District Code, § 749 (Act of Congress, March 3, 1897, § 1, c. 382,
29 Stat. 630).

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

The Order set up, by plea and affidavit of defence, the
facts showing the change of beneficiary and payment to
the new beneficiaries, which it alleged was in accordance
with the contract contained in the benefit certificate
and the constitution and laws of the organization. The,
case was heard by the Supreme Court on motion for
judgment against the defendant for failure to file a good
and sufficient affidavit of defence; and judgment was entered for $3,000 with interest. The Court of Appeals of
the District reversed this judgment, but later granted a
rehearing, the order reciting: "The question to be argued
is this: Had the beneficiary of the certificate a vested interest in the same that could not be divested by the issue
of a substitute certificate without the surrender of the
original and without the consent of the beneficiary named
in the original certificate?" Upon the rehearing the judgment of the lower court was affirmed. (45 App. D. C.
260.) The case comes here on writ of certiorari under
§251 of the Judicial Code.
The benefit certificate provided, among other things,
that the corporation will pay "out of its Widows and
Orphans' Benefit Fund to Sue B. Behrend (wife) a sum not
exceeding three thousand dollars in accordance with and
under the provisions of the laws governing said Fund,
upon satisfactory evidence of the death of said member,
and upon the surrender of this Certificate; provided that
said member is in good standing in this Order at the time
of his death, and provided also that this Certificate shall
not have been surrendered by said member and another
Certificate issued at his request, in accordance with the
laws of this Order." On the back of said Certificate
appears the following:
"Fo~m FOR CHANGE OF BENEFIcIARY.""
Council No., R. A.
"To ....................
Sup. Sec., S. C. R. A.: I
herewith surrender and return to the Supreme Council

ROYAL ARCANUM v. BEHREND.
394.

Opihion of the Court.

of the Royal Arcanum, the within Benefit Certificate
No ....... , and-direct that a new one be issued to me,
payable to .......... Residing at .......... Related to.
me as .............
Member will write his name in full.
.Attest:
[Seal of Sub. Council.]

.................S ecretary."

The general laws of the Order, in force at latest when
the new certificate was issued, provide that a member-in
good standing may at any time make "a written surrender
of his Benefit Certificate, and direct that a new certificate
be issued to him, payable to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as such member may designate" and that the
issue of such new certificate shall cancel all previous
certificates. They also provide that in case "a Befiefit
Certificate is lost or beyond a member's control," he may,
upon making satisfactory proof of the fact by affidavit
or otherwise and paying the required fee of fifty cents,
"in writing, surrender all claim thereto, and direct that
a new Certificate be issued to him, payable to the same
or a new beneficiary or beneficiaries." These conditions
were complied-with before the new certificate making the
son and daughter beneficiaries was issued.
Act of Congress, January 26, 1887, c. 46, § 6, (24 Stat.
367,) provided that each life insurance company doing
business -ithin the District should attach to each policy
a copy of the application "so that the whole contract may
appear in said application and policy.". Section 657 of
the District of Columbia Code as amended Jume 30, 1902,
c. 1329, (32 Stat. 534,) extended the provision to benefit
orders and associations an&- declared that, in case of
failure to furnish a copy of the application, "no defence
shall be allowed to such policy .on account of anything
contained in, or omitted from, such -application." The

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U.S1

Court of Appeals decided that Mrs. Behrend acquired a
vested interest in the benefit certificate which could not
be divested by the issue of a substitute certificate without
the surrender of the original and without her consent as
beneficiary; that the rights of the parties were governed
by the laws :)f the District of Columbia; that the benefit
certificate was an insurance policy within the meaning of
both the above acts; that the Order was an assessment
insurance company and as such came within the scope of
both acts, so that the fact that the benefit certificate was
issued before the amendment of 1902 was immaterial;
that it did not appear that there had been attached to the
certificate a copy of the. alication therefor; that the
failure to annex the application precluded allowing as a
defence any matter not appearing on the face of the benefit certificate; that the change of beneficiary was such a
defence; and that since natters found only in the application and laws of the'association could not be availed
of, the court must "look solely to the terms of the contract, that is, to the terms of this so-called benefit certificate, to determine the measure of the insured's right to
change the beneficiari;,' and that by its terms there
was no such-right.
This court held in Washzngton Central Bank v. Hume,
128 U. S; 195, 206, that under the ordinary policy of life
insurance, when no right is reserved to surrender the
policy or to change beneficiaries, the beneficiary named
therein acquires, at the moment it is issued, a vested right
which cannot be affected by'any act of the insured subsequent to the execution of the policy. The ile there
declared was deemed by the Court of Appeals to control
the case at bar. But it was not applicable; because the
contract sued on was a benefit certificate of a fraternal
benefit association, not an ordinary policy of life insurance;
and also because the benefit certificate on its face reserves
the right to change beneficiaries.

ROYAL ARCANUM v. BEHREND.
394.

Opinion of the Court.

First: The difference between ordinary life insurance
and that furnished by the fraternal benefit societies has
been universally recognized in legislation and is a.matter
of common knowledge. The. differences in the legal
incidents of these different forms of protection have been
illustrated by numerous decisions. The difference in
respect to the insured's right to change the beneficiary
has been frequently commented on and is firmly established. In the absence of a special provision of law or
of a rule of the association to the contrary, the naming
of a person as beneficiary in the benefit certificate of a
fraternal benefit association confers not a vested right,
but an expectancy'merely which may be defeted at any
time by act of the insured member.1 A different case is
presented where the insured has contracted with the
.beneficiary that he shall remain-such. A contract of'that
nature inay be enforced by appropriate proceeding if
'Slaughter v. Grand Lodge, 192 Ala. 30i; Jory v. Supreme Council
A. L. H., 105 Cal. 20; M4onic Mutual Benefit Ass'n v. Tolles, 70 Conn.
537, 544; Smith v. Locomotive Engineers Mutual Life & Acident In.Assn.., 138 Ga. 717; Delaney v. Delaney, 175 Ill. 187; Masonic Mutual
Benefit Society v. Burkhart, 110 Ind. 189, 194-195; Carpenterv. Knapp,
101 Ia. 712; Titsworth v. Titsworth, 40 Kans. 571; Marsh v. American
Legion of Honor, 149 Mass. 512; Schoenau v. Grand Lodge A. 0. U. W.,
85 Minn. 349; Carson v. Vicksburg Bank, 75 Miss. 167; Masonic Benevolent Assn. v. Bunch, 109 Mo. 560; Knights of Maccabees v. Sackelt,
34 Mon. 357, 363; Ogden v. Sovereign Camp, W. 0. W., 78 Neb. 804:
Ba'ton v. Provident Mutual Relief Assn., 63"N. H. 535; Spengler v.
Spengler, 65 N. J. Eq. 176; Lahey v. Lahey, 174 N. Y. 146; Pollock v.
Household of Ruth, 150 N. C.-211; Lentz v. Fritter, 92 Oh. St. 186:
Noble v. Police Beneficiary Assn., 224 Pa. St. 298; Catholic Knights of
America v. Morrison, 16 R. I. 468; Christenson-v: El Riad Temple, 37
S. D. 68, 71; Alfsen v. Crouch, 115 Tenn; 352; Byrne v. Casey, 70 Tex.
247; Cade v. Head Camp,- W. 0. W., 27 Wash. 218; Supreme Condave, Royal Adelphia v. Cappella, 41 Fed. Rep. 1.
The right of a member of a fraternal benefit society to change the
beneficiary has been denied in a few cases which have failed to distinguish between benefit certificates and ordinary life policies. See
Pittinger v. Pittinger, 28 Colo. 308. _

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

consistent with the general law and with the laws of the
association.' But the remedy to enforce rights arising
out of such a contract would obviously not be a suit, like
that at-bar, upon the certificate. Nor is it contended that
Behrend made any such contract concerning the certificate
with his wife. The mere fact that she paid some, and
possibly all, of the assessments, prior to the change of
beneficiary, even if paid out, of her separate estate,
raises no -legal claim. 2 - Perhaps there was not even a
moral claim; since throughout the period during which
she paid assessments, she enjoyed the full protection
which the Order agreed to. furnish; and for this alone payments were made. Under the form of insurance furnished
by fraternal beneficial associations no reserve is accumulated.
Second: The certificate, on its face, expressed not an
unconditional promise-,to make payment to the wife
therein-named, but a-conditional promise to pay provided
the "Certificate shall not have been surrendered by said
member and another Certificate issued at his request, in
accordance wi.h the laws of this Order." The plaintiff
alleged that the certificate had not been surrendermd and
.Grimbley v. Harrold,125 Cal. 24; Mcdrew v. McGrew, 190 Ill. 604;
In re Reid's Estate, 170 Mich. 476; Catholic Benevolent Legion v.
Murphy,.65 N. J. Eq. 60; Stronge v. Knights-of Pythiaa, 189 N. Y. 346;
Supreme.Lodge, Knights & Ladies of Honor v. Ulanowsky, 246 Pa. St.
591. Section 758 of the Code of the District of Columbia (§ 10 of the
Act of March 3- 1897, supra)provides in regard to fraternal beneficiary
assobiations, that "No contract with any such association shall be
valid when there is a contract, agreement, or understanding between
the member and the beneficiary prior to or t the time of becoming a
member of the association that the beneficiary, or any person for him,
shall.pay such member's assessments and dues, or either of them."
2 Jory v. Supreme Council A. L. H., 105 Cal. 20, 30; Supreme Lodge,
N. B. 0. P. v. Hine, 82 Conn. 315, 320; Schiller-Bund v. Knack, 184
Mich. 95; Spengier v. Spengier, 65 N. J. Eq. 176, 180; Fischer v. Fischer, 99 Tenn. 629, 636; Preneser v. Sup eme Hie L. 0. T. M., 123 Wis.
164.

ROYAL ARCANUM v. BEHREND.
394.

401

Opinion of the Court.

that she had not been requested to surrender or deliver
up the same for change of beneficiary. The latter allegation is denied by the affidavit of defence and the statements therein contained must be taken as true. But the
fact is not material. As indicated by the printed "Form
for Change of Beneficiary" endorsed on the Certificate,
which refers to both "surrender and return," the requirement of a surrender does not necessarily imply a return
to the Order of the original paper called the Benefit
Certificate. Furthermore, requirements of that character
are made for the protection of the society and, if complied with to its satisfaetion or if waived by it during
the lifetime of the insured, cannot be availed of to support
the claim of a former beneficiary.1 It is unnecessary
therefore to determine whether, under this form of certificate, the burden rested upon the plaintiff to prove, as
she alleged, that she had remained the beneficiary. As
the .judgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed
for the reasons statedabove, we express no opinion upon
other questions argued by counsel and, in part, passed
upon below.
Reversed.
Ladies of the Modem Maccabees v. Daley, 166 Mich. 542, 545; Fischer v. Malchow, 93 Minn. 396; Lene v. Fritter,92 Oh. St. 186, 194195; Noble v. Police Beneficiary Assn., 224 Pa. St. 298; Schardt v.
Schardt, 100 Tenn. 27. 279, 280.

