OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

247 U. S.

a distribution in specie of a portion of the assets of the
Union Pacific, and is to be governed for all present
purposes by the same rule applicable: to the distribution
of a like value of money. It is contr6Ued by Lynck v.
Hornby, this day decided, ante, 339.'
Judgment.affirmed.

SUNDAY LAKE IRON COMPANY v. TOWNSHIP
OF WAKEFIELD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 38., Argued November 9, 1917.-Deided June 3, 1918.

An unequal tax assessnient cannot be held in violation of the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, where a purpose
of the assessing board to discriminate is not clearly established and
where the discrimination may be attributed to an honest mistake
of judgment and lack of time and evidence for making general
revaluations when objecti6n was made.
The good faith of tax assessors and the validity of their acts are presumed; when assailed the burden of proof is upon the-complaining
party.
186 Michigan, 626, affirmed.

THE case is

stated in the opinion.

Mr. Horace Andrews, with whom Mr. William P. Belden
'was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The question of assessing other property was brought
to the attention of the State Board at the earliest op.
portunity in connection with -the holding of the special
review ordered-by the board. It knew of the general
under-assessment of property in the district, and had ac-

SUNDAY LAKE IRON CO. v. WAKEFIELD.
350.

351

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cess to information sufficient for its guidance in adjusting
and equalizing the values. It is no answer to say that no
notice had been given of the purpose of the board to hold
a general review. Since it had knowledge of the general
under-valuation, it should either have called a meeting
for a general review, where all property could have been
raised justly and r6latively in the same proportion, or it
should have waited until such time as it could do this in a
manner satisfactory to itself. If lack of time can operate
as an excuse for failure to treat taxpayers equally under
the law, then taxing and other officers can with impunity
deny the equal protection of the law to the citizens of a
State. On principle, the action of the board was violative
of the plaintiff's constitutional rights. It resulted in
taking from it thousands of dollars which it did not rightfully owe. Lack of time to make a proper assessment
cannot justify such a wrong.
The plaintiff does not seek relief because of th6 overassessment of its property. It complains because the
Board of State Tax Commissioners raised the assessed
value of its property to 100 per cent., while it knowingly
left other property generally in the tax district assessed
at 331/3 per cent. of its value. The board, like any individual, is presumed to /have intended all the natural
consequences of its acts. It intended, therefore, to assess
the plaintiff's prqperty on a basis three times as high as the
property generally in the taxing district-on a basis which
was not just andequal, and to cause it, to pay more than
its fair and ratable share of taxes.
Cases wherein the complaint was as to the unreasonable amount of the assessment-that the taxing officers
had gone too ar in the matter admittedly within their
discretion and had assessed the property too high-are here
irrelevant.
The board had no discretion or jurisdiction to change
the assessment of plaintiff's property so as to make it

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the- Court.

247 U. S.

relatively three times as high as all-other asses~ents.
It was an arbitrary act.
Mr. James A. O'Teill for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE 2MdCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a writ of error to a state court and the only
matter for our consideration is the claim that contrary
to the Fourteenth Amendment plaintiff in error was
denied equal protection of the laws by the State Board
of Tax Assessors which assessed its property for 1911 at
full value, whereas other lands throughout the county
were generally assessed at not exceeding one-third of
their actual worth. Proceeding in entire good faith, an
inexperienced local assessor adopted the .valuation which
his predecessor had placed upon-the company's property
-$65,000.00; the County Board of Review approved his
action. Reviewing this in the light of a subsequent
detailed report by experts appointed under a special act
of the legislature passed in April, 1911, to appraise all
.mining properties, the State Board raised the assessment
to $1,071,000.00; but, because of alleged lack of time and
inadequate information, it- declined to order a new and
general survey of -alues or generally to increase other
assessments, notwithstanding plaintiff in error represented and offered to present evidence showing that they
amounted to no more than one-third of true market
values.
The purpose of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is to secure every person within the
State's jurisdiction against intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned by express terms of a
statute or by its improper execution through duly constituted agents. And it must be regarded as settled that
intentional systematic undervaluation by state officials of

SUNDAY LAKE IRON CO. r. WAKEFIELD..
350.

353

Opinion of the Court.

other taxable property in the same class contravenes the
constitutional right of one taxed upon the full value of his
proper y. Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207
L. S. 20, 35, 37. It is also clear that mere errors of judgment by officials will not support a claim of discrimination. There must be something more-something which
in effect amounts to an intentional violation of the essential principle of practical uniformity. The good faith of
such officers and the validity of their actions are presumea;
when assailed, the burden of proof is upon the complaining party. Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 595; Pittsburgh &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 435; Maish
v. Arizona, 16.4 U. S. 599, 611; Adams Express Co. V. Ohio,
165 U. S. 194, 229; New York State v. Barker, 179 U. S.
279, 284, 285;-Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,
196 U. S. 599, 608; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.
v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 597.
The record discloses facts which render it more than
probable that plaintiff in error's mines were assessed for
the year 1911 (but not before or afterwards) relatively
higher than other lands within the county although the
statute enjoined the same rule for all. But we are unable
to conclude that the evidence suffices clearly to establish
that the State Board entertained or is chargeable with
any purpose or design to discriminate. Its action is not
incompatible with an honest effort in new and difficult
circumstances to adopt valuations not relatively unjust
or uneq. !. When pla~ntiff in error first challenged the
values placed upon the pr -perty of others no adequte
time remained for detailed consideration nor was there
sufficient evidenQe before the Board to justify immediate
and general revaluations. The very next year a diligent
and, so far as appears, successful effort was made to rectify any inequality. The judgment of the court below
inust be
A girmed.

