OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U. S.

considered by us and we intimate no opipion respecting
them. Such questions are rarely, if ever, regarded as
properly subject to examination here on writ of ceftiorari.
Appeal dismissed; certiorari granted, record on appeal
. to 'stand as return to writ; decrees below -reversed and
cause remanded to the District Court-for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

JEFERSON ET AL. v. FINK ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS OF, SEVERS, ET AL.
ERROR TO TE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLA.OMA.
No. 242..Argued March 22, 25, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.
The policy and legislation of Congress respectin the descent of Indian
allotments, particularly'in the Five Civilized Tribes, reviewed.
An "allotment made under the Supplemental Creek Agreement (Act
of June 30, 1902, c. 1323,.32 Stat. 500), before the admission of the
State of Oklahoma, to a Creek Freedman who died after the State's
admission, -descends (as among claimants who are all members of
the Creek Tribe) according to the law of that State.
The Oklahoma Enabling Act of June 16, 1906, substituted in this
respect the law of the State -i. e., the law of the Territory of -Oklahoma as extended to, and as it might be changed by, the State-for
the law of Arkansas, Mansfield's Digest, c. 49, which, had been
adopted provisionally in the Supplemental Agreement (§ 6) and in
prior acts; and this substitution is recognized by the Act of May 27,
1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, § 9.
In designating the Arkansas law as the rule of descent, the Supplemental Agreement was not intended and did not operate to confer
any vested right of inheritance in respect of allotments made and
deeded while such designation remained in force.
A prospective heir acquires no vested, right in the land before the
death of the ancestor, and the rules of descent are subject to be
changed meanwhile by the law-making power.
53 Oklahoma, 272, affirmed.

JEFFERSON v.FINK

288.

289

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.John T. Hays and MrT.James M. Hays for plaintiffs
in error.

Mr. George S. Ramsey, with whom Mr.N. A. Gibson,
Mr.Joseph L.Hull, Mr. Edward H. Chaidler,Mr. Farrar
L. McCain, Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr. Malcolm E.
Rosser, Mr.Villard Martin and Mr. J,Berry King were
on the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. John B. Campbell, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curice.
MR. JuSTiCE VAN DEVAT R

delivered the'opinion of

the court.
The title to a Creek allotment is here in controversy.
The allotment was made under the Act of March 1, 1901,
c. 676, .31 Stat. 861, known as the Original Creek Agreement, and the modifying Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32
Stat. 500, known ,'s
the Supplemental Creek Agreement.
In 1903 the usual tribal deeds, approved by the Secretary of the Interior and passing the full title, were
issued to the allottee. In June, 1908, she died intestate,
leaving her surviving a father, brothers, and sisters,
but no mother, husband or issue. The survivors, like the
allottee, wei'e enrolled members of the tribe, and all
were freedmen. In determining who inherited the land
the courts'below applied the Oklahoma law of descent
existing at the time of the allottee's death, 53 Oklahoma,
272; and the question for decision here is whether under the
legislation of Congress an Arkansas law, theretofore put
in force in the Indian Territory, should have been applidd.
When the allotment was made and the tribal deeds
issued the land was in the Indian Territory, but before

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

.247 U. S.

the allottee died that Territory and the Territory of
Oklahoma had become the State of Oklahoma.
In' early times, when allotments in fee simple to individual Indians were made only occasionally, there was
no congressional enactment prescribing who should inherit
allotted land on the death of the allottee, and in such
cases it was held that while the tribal relation continued
the applicable rule of descent was to be found in the lafs
and usages of the tribe, and not in the laws of the State
or Territory in which the land lay. Jones v. Meehan,
175 U. S. 1, 29-32. In actual practice this rule proved
unsatisfactory, because the tribal laws and usages were
generally crude and often difficult of ascertainment;
and so in later allotment acts Congress provided that the
descent should be aecording to the state or territorial law.
A notable illustration of what came to be the policy of
Congress on the subject is found in the general allotment
Act of February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24 Stat. 388, the fifth
section of which says that for a designated period the
United States will hold the land in trust foi the allottee,
"or, in case of his decease, of his heirs according to the
laws of the State or Territory where such land is located,"
and at the expiration of that period will convey the same
iti fee to the allottee, "or his heirs as aforesaid;" and also
"thai the law of descent and partition in force in 'the
State or Territory where such lands are situate shall
apply. thereto after patents therefor have been executed
and delivered." True, that act has no direct application
to the lands of the Five Civilized Tribes, of which the
Creek tribe is one, but it does throw much light on what
was intended by the subsequent, legislation relating to
the descent of thos6 lands when allotted.
A territorial °government never was established in the
Indian Territory and it never had a territorial legislature.
Apart from the tribal laws of the Indians, among which
were laws relating to descent and distribution, the only

JEFFERSON v. FINK.
288:

Opinion of the Court.

laws which became operative there were.such as Congress enacted or put in force.
By acts passed in 1890, 1893, 1897 and 1898, Congress
manifested its purpose to allot or divide in severalty the
lands of the Five Civilized Tribes with a view to -the
ultimate creation of a State embracing the Indian Territory; put in force in the Territory several statutes of Arkansas, including Chapter 49 of Mansfield's Digest relating to descent and distribution; provided that those
statutes should apply to all persons in the Territory,
irrespective of race; and substantially abrogated the
laws of the several tribes, including those relating to
descent and distribution. Acts May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26
Stat. 81, § 31; March 3, 1893, c. 209, 27 Stat. 645, § 16;
June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 83; June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30
Stat. 495, §§ 11 and 26. This was the situation when the
Act of 1901, known as the Original Creek Agreement,
was adopted. That act in the course of providing for the
allotment in severalty of the lands of the Creeks revived
their tribal law of descent and distribution by making it
applicable to their allotments, §§ 7 and 28. But the revival was only temporary, for the Act of 1902, known as
the Supplemental Creek Agreement, not only repealed so
much of the Act of 1901 as gave effect to the tribal law
but reinstated the Arkansas law with the qualification
that Creek heirs, if there were such, should take to the
exclusion of others.' Washington v. M7ller, 235 U. S.
1

The repealing and reinstating portion of the act was as follows:
"6. The provisions of the act of Congress approved March 1, 1901
(31 Stat. L., 861), in so far as they provide for descent and distribution according to the laws of the Creek Nation, are hereby repealed
and the descent and distribution of land and money provided for
by said act shall be in accordance with chapter 49 of Mansfield's
Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas now in force in Indian Territory:.Provided, That only citizens of -the Creek Nation, male and
female, and their Creek descendants shall inherit lands of the Creek
Nation: And provided further, That if there be no person of Creek

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Cort.

247 U. S.

422, 425-426. The allotment in question was-made and
the tribal aeeds issued shortly after the Act of 1902 becaine effective. And this' was followed by the Act of
April 28, 1904, c. 1824, 33 Stat. 573, § 2, declaring that
all statutes of Arkansas theretofore put in force in the
Indian Territory should -betaken "to embrace all persons
and estates in said Territory, whether Indian, freedmen,
or otherwise."
Referring to the purpose with which the Arkansas
statutes were put in force in that Territory and to their
status there, this court said in Shulthis. v. McDougal,
•225 U. S. 561, 571: "Congress was then contemplating.
the early inclusion of that Territory in a ne* State, andthe purpose of those-acts was to provide, for the time
being, a body of laws-adapted to the needsof the locality
and its people in respect of matters of local or domestic
concern. There being no local legislature, Congress.alone
could act. .Pjainly, its action was intended to be merely
provisional.
"
By the enabling act of June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat.
267, provision was made for admitting into the Union
both the Territory of Oklahoma and the Indian Territory
as the State of Oklahoma. Each Territory had a distinct
body of local laws. Those in the Indian Territory, as we
have seen, had been put in force there by .Congress.
Those in the Territory of Oklahoma had been enacted by
the territorial legislature. Deeming it better that the new
State should come into the Union with a body of laws applying with practical uniformity throughout the State,
Congress provided in the enabling act (§ 13) that "the
laws in force in the Territory of Oklahoma, as far as applicitizenship to take the descent and distribution of said estate, then the
inheritance shall go to noncitizen heirs in the order named, in said
chapter 49."
There was a like provision, but without the provisos, in the Act of
lay 27, 1902, c. 888, 32 Stat. 258.

JEFFERSON c. FINK.
288.

Opinion of the Court.

cable, shall extend over and appty to sazd Stateuntil changed
by the legislature thereof," and also (§ 21) that "all laws
in force in the Territory of Oklahoma at the time of the
admission of. said State into the Union shall be in
force throughout said State, except as modified or changed
by this act or by the constitution of the State." The
people of the State, taking the same view, provided in
their constitution (Art. 25, § 2) that "all laws in force
in the Territory of Oklahoma at the time of the admission
of the State into the Union, which are not repugnant to
this Constitution, and which are not locally inapplicable, shall be extended to and remain in force in the State
of Oklahoma until they expire by their own limitation or
are altered or repealed by law."
The State was admitted into the Union November 16,
1907; and thereupon the laws of the Territory of Oklahoma relating to descent and distribution (Rev. Stats.
Okla. 1903, c. 86, art. 4) became laws of the State. Thereafter Congress, by the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35
Stat. 312, § 9, recognized and treated "the laws of descent
and distribution of the State of Oklahoma" as applicable
to the lands allotted to members of the Five Civilized
Tribes.
As before indicated, "the allottee died in June, 1908,
and the courts below in determining who inherited the
land from her gave effect to the state law of Oklahoma
existing at the time of her death.
Two objections to that ruling are pressed on our attention: One that the allotment was made and the tribal
deeds issued under the Act of 1902, which contained a
provision that the descent should be according to the
Arkansas law, and that thereby those who would be heirs
under that law became invested with a right to inherit
which "bould not be taken away or impaired by subsequent legislation, either federal or state; and the other
that, even if Congress possessed the power to substitute

294

-OCTOBER TERM, 117.
Opinion of the Court

247 U. S.

other law of- descent, that powfr was not exercised.
Both objections are untenable.
.
Through congressional action the' Arkansas law found
in Chh ter 49 of Mansfield's Digest lad become the local
law f desceit in -the Indian Tervrtory, and when the
*Act of 1902 provided that the descent of Creek allotments should be in accordance withL that chapter, it was
but another way-of saying that t e descent should be in
accordance with the local law. ,n other words, that act
was made to conform to the general policy of Congress
in respect of the, descent of Indian allotments. Other
pr6visions dealt with the estate which the allottee was
to receive and showed that it was to be a fee simple.
What was said about the rules of descent was purely
legislative, not contractual; and its presence in the act
gave it no effect-that it would not have had as a separate
enactment. Like other rules -of descent .it was subject
to change by the law-making power as to any land not
already passed to the heir by the death of the owner.
Not until the ancestor dies is there any vested right in
the heir. Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed.
512.
We have seen that Congress was accustomed to subjecting allotted Indian lands to the local laws of descent,
and also that its action in putting the Arkangas law in'
force in the Indian Territory was intended' to be merely
provisional. With this in mind it seems very plain that
the provisions before quoted from the enabling act were
intended to result, at the time of the admission of the
new State, in the substitution of the Oklahoma law of
descent for that. of Arkansas theret6fore put in force in
the Indian Territory. The recognition given to the
Oklahoma law, by Congress in the Act of 1908 hardly.
can be explained on any other theory.
It well may be, as held below, that the qualification
which Congress placed on the application of the local
-some

