OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U. S.

10. The- said commissioners shall make .a report of
their proceedings under this decree as soon as practicable
and on or before such date as hereafter shall be fixed by
the court, and shall return with their report an itemized
statement of services performed and expenses incurred
by them in the performance of their duties.
11. All other matters are reserved until the coming in

of said report.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY v. CITY
OF NEWPORT, KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS
KENTUCKY.

OF THE STATE OF

-No. 273. Argued January 18; 21, 1918.-Decided June 10, 1918.
'This court.will review and correct the error of a state supreme court,
in assuming a state of facts without any support in the record as
a basis for denying asserted federal rights.
When the case has been disposed of on the pleadings, everyuncontradicted allegation by the unsuccessful party must be taken as true, in- cluding demals:of material facts previously averred by his opponent.
The sole ground upon which-a judgment against a prior owner is conelusive against his successor in interest is that the estoppel runs with
the property, that the grantor can convey no better right or title
than he had himself, and that the grantee takes cum onere.
fHence, a judgment holding a telegraph company bound by a license
agreement with a city touching the use of the streets, but-rendered
in a suit begun after the company had conveyed to another, does not
estop its remote successor in interest fromoclaiming against the city
that the agreement was never accepted.
While res judicata ordinarily is a matter of state law, a decision of the
state court which denies asserted federal rights through the application of a former judgment will not conclude this court, if such application be clearly inconsistent with the right to due process of law.
It is a violation of the due process of the Fourteenth Amendment for

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. -v.NEWPORT.
44

465

Opinion of the Court.

a State to give conclusive effect to a prior judgment against one who
was neither a party, nor in privity with a party, therein.
160 Kentucky, 244, reversed..
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Randolph Schindel, with whom Mr. Morison
R. Waite was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Brent Spence for defendant in error.
MR. Jusncn. PiTNY delivered the opinion of the court.
On December 5, 1895, the council of the City of Newport, Kentucky, passed an ordinance purporting to grant
to the Postal Telegraph Cable Company and its successors, subject to.certain limitations, the right and privilege
of erecting poles and stretching wires over the streets and
alleys of the city necessary to the establishment, operation,
and maintenance of a telegraph system connecting that
city with other towns and cities. Among its provisions
were these: (a) that unless the company should within
thirty days, and in writing, accept the grant subject to
the' limitations, the grant should become void; (b) that
nothing in the ordinance should be construed as granting
a franchise to the company; and (c) that the company
should pay to the city a "special license tax" of $100 per
annum. This company was a New York corporation
having the same name as that of plaintiff in error, and
will be referred to hereinafter as the first New York company.
On or about Januar 1, 1897, that company conveyed
its property in the State of Kentucky, including all its
rights and interests in the City of Newport, to another
New York corporation known as the Commercial Cable
Company; in 1898 this company conveyed the same
property and privileges to another New York corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

-'

247 U. S.

known as the Commercial Cable & Telegraph Company;
and on or about December 31, 1900, all of said rights and
property were transferred and conveyed by the latter
company to the plaintiff in error, the Postal Telegraph
Cable Company, which is a corporation of the State of
Kentucky, and since then has owned and operated the
property.
In 1908 suit was brought in a state court by the city
against plaintiff in error (hereinafter referred to as defendant) to recover "license taxes" as specified in the ordinance for a series of years, and a judgment in favor of
*the city for the years 1903 to 1907 inclusive was sustained
by the 'Court of Appeals of Kentucky, notwithstanding
certain contentions of defendant based upon the provisions of the Constitfttion of the United States respecting
the regulation of commerce among the States and -the
establishment of post offices and post roads (Art. -1, §8,
pars. 3 & 7), upon 'the Act of Congress of July 24, 1866
(c. 230,-'14 Stat. 221; Rev. Stats. U. S. § 5263 et seq.) and
upon the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. 160 Kentucky, 244. A writ of error under
§ 237, Judicial Code (Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36
Stat. 1087, 1156), issued before the taking effect of thd
Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, brings-the
judgment here for review.
The case was decided upor me pleadings and exhibits,
which latter included a copy of the ordinance and what
was treated as a transcript of the record of a previous suit
brought by the city against the first New York company
in a state court of Kentucky to recover license taxes
under the ordinance for two years ending December 5,
1898, resulting in a judgment in favor of the city, which
was affirmed by the Courit of Appeals, opinion reported in
25 Ky. Law Rep. 635; the judgment being pleaded as a
bar to the defense set up in this action.
The pleadings in the-present suit are so involved and

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. r. NiWPORT. 467
464.

Opinion of the Court.

prolix that a particular recital of them would be tedious.We will present a sufficient sununary to show the questions
raised and how they were disposed of.
The city alleged the passage of the ordinance, and
averred that shortly after its passage and in pursuance .of
it the first New York company erected poles and strung
wires in the streets, and established, operated, and maintained a telegraph system in the city, and thereby the
ordinance became a binding contract between the city
and the company; but that defendant had failed and&refused to pay the sum of $100 per annum for the several
years in question, in disregard of its contract.
Defendant's answer alleged that at the time of the
enactment of the ordinance defendant was not in existence,
and'that the Postal Telegraph Cable Company therein
referred to was the first New York company; denied that
either that company or defendant in any manner or at
any time accepted the ordinance, or that the same became
a binding contract between plaintiff and either company;
admitted that shortly after its passage the first New York
company began the erection of its poles and wires and the
establishment of its telegraph system, but denied that
this was done under or by virtue of the ordinance; alleged
on the contrary that that company did not accept but
declined to accept the ordinance, as plaintiff well knew,
and that the poles were erected and wires strung in and
over the streets and alleys of the city by the company
under another and independent claim of right, as plaintiff
well knew; that that company had accepted the Act of
Congress approved July 24, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221;
Rev. Stats. U. S. § 5263, dt seq, and acts amendatory
thereof, and had complied with their terms, and thereby
obtained the right to construct, maintain, and operate its
lines of telegraph over and along all post roads of the
United States; that under § 3964, Rev. Stats. U. S., and
the Act of Congress of March 1, 1884, c. 9, 23 Stat. 3, all

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
pmion of the Court.

247 U. S.

the streets and alleys of the City of Newport were such
post roads, and by virtue of these provisions of the laws of
the United States said New York company was entitled to
erect its poles and string its wires over and along the
streets and alleys of the.city, and did-so under that author.ty and not in pursuance of any acceptance of the ordinance, nor under any contract, with the city.
Partly in an aniendment to the answer, and paray in,a
rejoinder filed at the same time in response to plaintiff's
reply, defendant set up the conveyance by said New York
company on or about January 1, 1897, of all its property,
rights, and lines of telegraph in the State of Kentucky and
elsewhere, including its rights over the roads, streets and
alleys in said State and in the various cities and municipalities thereof, to the Commerical Cable Company, a
corporation of the -State of New York; set up the subsequent conveyances of the same property as we have recited them, terminating with the conveyance to the defendant on or about December 31, 1900; alleged that from
January 2, 1897, until June 30, 1898, the Commercial"
Cable Company of New York operatea the Kentucky
lines in the name of the Postal Telegraph Cable Company
of New York; that from June 30, 1898, until December 31,
1900, the Commercial Cable & Telegraph Company of
New York did the same; and that since the last mentioned
date defendant had owned and operated and still owned
and operated said lines, and was entirely separate and distinct from the first New York company and had no relations with it; that since the last mentioned date defendant
had been engaged in operating and maintaining a system of
telegraphy in the State of Kentucky between cities and
towns in that State and, in connection with other companies, between various -other cities and towns in other
States; that before the last mentioned date defendant had
accepted the Act of Congress of July 24, 1866, and had
complied with its terms and ever since had been subject

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. NEWPORT. 469
464.,

Opinion of te Court.

thereto, and thus had obtained the right to construct,
maintain, and operate its lines of telegraph over the
streets and alleys of the City of Newport, and was doing
so pursuant to this right and not by virtue of any contract
with the city.
Defendant in its answer further set up that the payment
of $100 per annum mentioned in the ordinance was not
imposed as a rental but as a special license tax; and
that it was not a reasonable rental or a reasonable or
lawful exaction as a license tax. Also that the ordinance
wa- void and inoperative because said right and privilege
was not conferred in acdordance with § 164 of the constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky then in force,
and § 3068, Kentucky Statutes. And also that the
alleged contract was beyond the powers of the city, ultra
vires, and void.
Defendant further alleged that other telegraph companies and telephone companies were using the streets
and alleys of the city for poles and wires in a manner
substantially similar to their use by the first New York
company and by defendant; that none of these companies
was subject to the payment of any license tax or was
required to pay or agreed to pay any compensation to the
city by way of rental, license, or otherwise; that the attempted exaction from defendant of $100 per annum was
an unreasonable discrimination between defendant and
other telegraph and telephone companies, contrary to the.
laws of the State of Kentucky and in violation of the
constitution of that State, and also in violation of the
first section of the Fourteenth Amendinent' to the Constitution of the United States; and also that it was an
unreasonable, excessive, and unlawful exaction, in violation of those provisions of the Constitution of the United
States conferring upon Congress the power to regulate
commerce among the States and to establish post-offices
and post-roads (Art. 1, § 8, pars. 3 & 7), and the laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

enacted in pursuance thereof, and was therefore null and
void.
In what was entitled a "second amended petition,' but
was ordered by the court to be taken as a reply to defendant's answer, plaintiff set up in substance that in a suit
brought by it against, the first New York company, on
September 9, 1899, the city alleged that the ordinance of
December 5, 1895, was a contract consented to by that
company and under which it derived and enjoyed its
privilege to erect poles and string wires in the streets and,
alleys of the city and establish and maintain a telegraph
system therein, that in consideration of this right. and
privilege the company_ agreed to pay to the city the sum
of $100.per year as specified in the ordinance, and that
under its terms $200 was due to -the city for two years
ending December 5, 1898, for which recovery was prayed;
and that.in this .action a judgment was rendered in the
trial court in favor of the city for the amount claimed,
which was affirmed by the Court-of Appeals of Kentucky,
its 6pinion being reported in 25 Ky. Law Rep. 635. The
same pleading alleged that the Postal Telegraph Cable
Company of Kentucky, defendant in the present action,
was the same Postal Telegraph Cable Company that was
organized under the laws of the State of New York and
was defendant in the former action, or that defendant was
the lessee or successor, and succeeded to all the rights,
privileges, and duties of the defendant in the former
action, and was using, operating, and controlling the
same poles, wires, and equipment as those used, operated,. and controlled by the defendant in the former
action; and plaintiff pleaded said proceedings and judgment -as a bar to the defense set up in the present
action.
By way of rejoinder, defendant denied its identity with
the Postal-. Telegraph Cable Company of New York,
defendant in the former action, denied that defendant in

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. r.. NEWPQRT.
461.

471

Opinion, of the Court.

the present action was the lessee or successor of said
company or had succeeded to. all its rights, or to any of
its rights under the ordinance, and denied that it had
succeeded to any of the duties of said New York company.
In the same pleading were the averments respecting its
acquisition of title to the property, its operation thereof,
and its want of relation with-the New York company,
which we have recited.
The Court of Appeals, in disposing of the case (160
Kentucky, 244), laid aside the questions that were raised
under both state and federal. law as to the validity and
'effect of the ordinance, including the authority of the city
to grant the privilege or exact the tax, upon the ground
that the first New York company had agreed to the ordinance, and it and its successors, including defendant, had
since been in possession of the streets under and by virtue
of it, and would not be heard to dispute its validity while
thus occupying the streets. Referring to the statement
in the ordnance that it was hot to be construed as granting a franchise, the court said: "Doubtless it was well
known that a franchise such as is contemplated and required by the [state] constitution could not be secured in
this way. In accepting the use of the streets under this
ordinance, the company merely obtained the right, for
the stipulated compensation, to occupy the streets until
such time as the city might see proper to revoke the
license. But so long as the company occupies the streets
under the license it must pay the agreed price. The compensation provided by the ordinance is not a license tax
upon the right of the company to do business in the city,
but merely a charge against the company for the use of
the streets with its poles and wires." Tle contention
that the exaction of $100 per annum for the use of the
streets was unreasonable was passed by a reference to the
previous decision, where it was .held (25 Ky. Law Rep.
637) that the question of the reasonableness of the grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

and what was a fair compensation for the servitude was
a question for the parties to decide. Finally, the contention that the enforcement of the ordinance denied to
defendant the equal protection of the laws-was rejected
upon the ground that it did not appear that any other
telegraph company was occupying the streets of Newport
under a grant like the ond conferred by the ordinance in
question; the court declaring that a corporation-accepting
a privilege under one grant cannot complain that other
corporations are occupyirrg the streets under different
grants imposing other conditions, and that cities may
make reasonable classifications of grants and privileges,
and attach dissimilar conditions and impose dissimilar
burdens upon each class, without violating the equal
protection feature of the Federal Constitution.
It will be observed .that every point raised by defendant, whether of fact or of, state or federal law, was held
immaterial upon the ground that (a) the first New York
company had accepted the grant subject to the payment
of the charge of $100 per annum; (b) its liability to pay
the same had been adjudicated in the former suit; and
(c) defendant, as successor to the rights and privileges of
that company, was concluded by the former judgment
against it.
It is true that, in answer to the assertion of a right under
the Act of Congress of July 24, 1866, to erect'poles and
string wires in the streets without the consent of the city,
the court declared that the act did not take from the city
the right to charge a telegraph company -for using its
streets a reasonable compensation in the way of a license
fee or occupation tax, citing St. Louis v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, and Western Union Telegraph.
Co.v. Richmond,. 224 U. S. 160. In each 'of these cases,
however, it was assumed, in the absence of anything to
the contrary, that under the state constitution and laws
the municipality represented the public in the control of

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. NEWPORT.
464.

473

Opinion of the Court.

the.streets (148 U. S. 100; 224 U. S. 171); in the St. Louis
Case it was so held upon rehearing (149 U. S. 465); in both
cases it was held that the question of reasonable compensation was a question of fact, to be determined in the
usual way (148 U. S. 104-105; 224 U. S. 171-172); and in
the St. Louis Case, upon a retrial, the ordinAnce charge
was found to be unreasonable in fact (166 U. S. 388,
391). But in the present case, both the power of the city
under the constitution and laws of the State, and the
reasonableness in fact of the charge of $100 per annum,
were denied by defendant, and the court declined to pass
upon either question, deeming that defendant was concluded upon both points by the consent of its predecessor.
We assume that if the first New York company did at
the outset accept the ordinance, either in writing according to its terms or by erecting poles and wires and
occupying the streets thereunder or in any other manner
satisfactory to the city, that company and its successors
in the ownership of the telegraph system, including defendant, were bound to comply with the terms of the ordinance as to the "s1ecial license tax" (which evidently in
that case would be regarded as an agreed rental), so long
as they continued to retain and enjoy the privileges conferred; that in that event every claim of federal right
here asserted Would be without foundation; and that, if
the fact of acceptance had been conclusively adjudged in
a former proceeding against dfendant or its privy, the
same result would follow.
But the question arises, whether the basis of fact upon
which the state court rested its decision denying the asserted federal rights has any support in the record; for if
not, it is our duty to review and correct the error. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611; North Carolina R. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 259; Carlson v.
Curtiss, 234 U. S. 103 106; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v.

OCTOBER TEAM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605, 610; Interstate Amusement
Co. v. Albert, 239 U. S. 560, 567.
Since the case proceeded to judgment upon the pleadings,
it is elementary that every uncontradicted allegation of fact
by the unsuccessful party must be taken as true. This applies to the 'denial by defendant that either it or the first
New York company accepted the ordinance, the averment
-that the"latter company declined to accept it and erected
its poles and strung its wires-in the streets of the city
under another and indepe'dent claim of right as pla'itiff
well knew, and other averments bearing upon the question of acceptance in fact.
There remains only the adjudication in the former
suit against the first New York company, which we assume to have been sufficiently pleaded, and to have sub-,
stantially involved- the points that are now material so as
to make them res judicata in a subsequent silt between
the parties'and their privies although based on a different
demand (Croqwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352;
Wilson's Executor v. Deen, 121.U. S. 525, 534; Nesbit v.
Riverside Independent District,'144U. S. 610), and which
the Court of Appeals regarded as concluding defendant
upon matters of fact as well as law. But there is nothing
in the record to make this judgment conclusive as against
defendant except upon the theory of a privity of estate
between it and the first New York company. And, as to
this, it appears from the averments in defendant's pleadings-indeed, it is sta ed as a fact in the opinion of the
court-that the suit against that company was' brought
in the year 1899, two years after it had conveyed its prop'erty in the State of Kentucky, including all its rights
and interests in the City of Newport, to another corporation through which defendant afterwards acquired title.
The ground upon which, and upon which alone, a judgment against a prior owner is held conclusive against his
successor in interest, is that the estoppel runs with the

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. NEWPORT.
464.

475

Opinion of the Court.

property, that the grantor can transfer no better right
or title than he himself has, and that the grantee takes
cum onere. From this it follows that nothing which the
grantor can do or suffer after he has parted with the -title
can affect rights previously vested in the grantee, for there
is no longer privity between them. This doctrine is
universally accepted, and. was applied by this court in
Keokuk & Western R. R. Co. v. Missouri, 152 U. S.
301, 314; Keokuk & Western R. R. Co. v. Scotland
County, 152 U. S. 318, 322; Dull v. Blackman, 169
U. S. 243, 248; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S.
100, 122. We infer that its obvious application to the
facts of this case was inadvertently overlooked by the
Court of Appeals, because the general principle is recognized in previous decisions of that court as a limitation
upon the doctrine of lis pendens. Clarkson v. Morgan's
Devisees, 45 Kentucky (6 B. Mon.), 441, 446, 453; Parks
v. Smoot, 105 Kentucky, 63, 67.
Res judicata, like other kinds of estoppel, ordinarily is
a matter of state law, and as the decision of the state
court in this case in effect rests upon that ground, this of
itself would be sufficient to sustain the judgment against
reversal in this court, except for two queries that must,
first be answered: (a) Is the question of state law, in this
case, independent of the federal questions? and (b) Is
the decision reached upon that point sufficiently well
founded to furnish adequate support for the judgment?
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, 366; Southern Pacific Co.
v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 610; Enterprise Irrigation
District v. Farmers Mutual Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157,
164.
Waiving the doubt whether, under the particular facts
of this case, the question of res judicata can be regarded
as independent of the federal questions that were raised,
we are of the opinion that the-decision reached upon it is
so clearly ill founded that it cannot sustain the judgment;

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S,

and this for the reason that it is inconsistent with another
federal right of defendant, fundamental in character.
'The, doctrine of res judi&ata rests at bottom upon the
ground that the party to be affected, or some other with
whom he is in privity, has litigated or had an opportunity
to litigate the same matter in a former action in a court
of competent jurisdiction. Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
United States, 168 U. S. 1k 48; Greenleaf Ev., §§ 522523. The opportunity to be heard is an essential requisite of due process of la- in judicial proceedings. Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 277; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. S'chmidt, 177 U. S. 230, 236; Simon v. Craft,
182 U. S.,427, 436. And as a State may not, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment, enforce a judgment against a party named in the proceedings without a hearing or an opportunity to be heard (Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 733; Scott v. McNeal, 154.U. S. 34,
46; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S.413, 423),
so -it cannot, without disregarding the requirement of due
process, give a conclusive effect to a prior judgment
against one who is neither a party nor in privity with a
party therein.
It follows that in this case res judicata cannot be regarded as an adequate support for the judgment; and
since, without; that, we have not the materials necessary
for a proper disposition of th6 federal questions that were
raised, we express no opinion upon them.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not iftconsistent with this opinion.

