OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

deals with other iegal acts. Action iike the present in my
opinion is wholly unwarranted by even color of law.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

GRINNELL WASHING MACHINE COMPANY v.
E. E. JOHNSON COMPANY.
CERTIORARI. TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 272:

Argued April 26, 29, 1918.-Decided June 10, 1918.

Patent No. 950,402, gtanted to W. F. Phillips, for a gearing device
applied to a washing machine whereby the operation of wringing,
in either direction, may-be conducted and controlled simultaneously
With the operation of washing, or separately, with one motor, is
v6id for want of invention.
A'combination of old elements,. evolving no new co6perative function
and producing no new result, other than convenience and economy,
held not patentable.
231 Fed. Rep. 988, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.'

Mr. Melville Church for petitioner.
Mr. ClarenceE. Mehlhope for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DAT delivered the-opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Grinnell Washing Machine Company against the E. E. Johnson Company
for infringement of letters patent NO. 950,402 granted to

W. F. Phillips February 22, 1910. The patentee states
the object of the invention to be "to provide a gearing

GRINNELL WASHINGIIACH. CO. v. JOHNSON CO. 427
426.

Qpinion of the Court.

device of simple, d&able and inexpensive construction,
especially designed for use in operating washing machines
and wringers, by means of ppwer applied by an electric,
motor or other source of power."
The patent has been several times in litigation. In the
United States District Court for the Southern District

of Iowa it was held valid'and infringed. 209 Fed.. Rep.
621. It was again sued upon in the same District Court,
and upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit a decree holding the- patent valid and
infringed was sustained. 222 Fed. Rep-'512. In the case
at bar the patent was sustained in the District Court for
the Southem District of Illinois where it was held valid
and infringed, and a decree entered accordingly. From

.428

OCTOBER TERM, 1917,
Opinion.of the Court.

247 U. S.

this decree an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, and that court reversed
the decree below, and held the patent invalid. 231 Fed.
-Rep. 988. A writ of certiorari brings the last-named case
here.
The gearing device, which is the subject-matter of the
Phillips patent, will sufficiently appear, reference being had
to the annexed drawing and description. [See p. 427.]
While the invention is for a gearing device, the washing
machine to which it is said to be especially designed is
what is known as the "dolly type." As the drawing
shows, in that type of machine there is a tub (10) on which
is hinged a cover (11). Joinmaled in the cover is a vertical
shaft (45), known as the dolly shaft. Mounted to slide
up and down this shaft is the dolly, which consists of a
block of wood with pins projecting downward, so that,
when the cover is down, the pins extend into the clothes
in the water in the tub. In operation the dolly.shaft, and
with it the dolly, is swung back and forth from Y .to %
of a turn. A wringer is mounted on the side of the tub,
and this wringer consists of two rolls which rotate towards
each other and carry the clothes into another tub which
contains rinse water. The clothes-may be carried by the
wringer rolls in either direction. The power commonly
used is a small electric motor. This motor (23) is fastened on the bottom of the tub and the armature shaft
of the motor is secured to a small pulley (22) connected
by a belt (21), with a balance wheel (20) journaled on a
stub shaft supported from the bracket (13). This large
pulley wheel or belt wheel has secured on the hub a small
spur gear pinion (17), which meshes with a large spur
gear wheel (16), which is secured on the outer end of the
horizontal power shaft (15), which is journaled in two
bearings (14) projecting upward from the bracket or
bearing. When the motor' is running the train of gearing
keeps the power shaft (15) running always in the same

GRINNELL WASHING MACH. CO. v. JOHNSON CO, 429
426.

Opinion of the Court.

direction at an average sloweir-ate of speed than the,
armature shaft of the motor. The power shaft swings and
rotates the vertical dolly shaft back and forth. A spur
gear pinion (40), secured on the shaft (15), meshes with
the larger spur ge:ar wheel (44), secured on the shaft (43),
journaled in bearings (42). The spur gear wheel (44)
carries an eccentric gear, which is connected by apitman
(48) with a pin on the horizontal reciprocating rack bar
(47). This rack bar is in mesh with a spur gear pnion (46)
secured on the top of the dolly shaft, so that the power
shaft being continuously rotated in one direction, the
dolly shaft (45) is swung back and forth in alternate
directions.
From the power shaft (15) a train of geaing to tte
wringer rolls has secured on it a small bevel gear (15a),
which meshes with two mitre gears (26 and 27) mounted
Dn a shaft -(24) extending at right angles to the power
sWaft. The shaft (24) has secured on it, so that it can
slide back and forth on the shaft, but must always rotate
with the shaft, a clutch sleeve (30), which has on its ends
clutch teeth shaped to be engaged with similar clutch
teeth on the inner ends of the hubs of the mitre gears
(26 and 27).' The clutch sleeve is engaged with only one
mitre gear at a time, and if it engages with one mitre gear,
the wringer rolls are rotated in one direction; if it engages
with the other, the wringer rolls are rotated in the opposite direction, so that the shifting of the clutch sleeve
reverses the direction of the rotation of the wringer rolls.
To do this shifting there is an operating handle (34), which
extends beneath the wringer to a position where it can be
readily operated by the person doing the washing. The
handle (34) is secured on the end of a rock shaft (32),
which has an upwardly projecting arm (33) that fits into
an annular groove (30), into the clutch sleeve (29), so
that as you swing the handle the clutch sleeve is moved
from one position to another. The connection between

OCTOBER TERM4, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

shaft (24) and shaft (39) on which the wringer roll is
secured, consists of a sprocket pinion (36) secured on the
outer end of the shaft (24) connected by a sprocket chain
(37) with a large sprocket wheel (38) secured on the outer
end of the shaft (39).
The method of operation is to place a batch of clothing
in soapy water in the tub, and, when the electric motor is
started, the driving shaft and the spur gear pinion,
secured thereon, are put into rotation; when the hinged
cover of the machine is brought down it has the effect of
causing the spur gear wheel to go into mesh with the spur
gear pinion -and to set the dolly shaft and its head into
reciprocating motion, thus scrubbing the clothes in the
tub. When the cover of the washer is swung up, the gear
of the dolly is automatically thrown out of gear with the
pinion, the main driving shaft still continuously rotating.
The operating handle is shifted so as to cause the clutch
sleeve to engage with the hub of the bevel pinion, thereby
causing the bevel pinion secured to the end of the main
drive shaft to drive the shaft (24) and through the latter
the sprocket wheel (36), the chain (37), the sprocket wheel
(38) and the shaft of the lower wringer roll, causing the
wringer rolls to rotate so that a garment placed between
them will be carried outwardly. When the first batch of
clothes has been washed, and passed through the wringer,
a second batch of clothes is inserted in the soapy water
in the washer, and the cover of the washer again swung
down, thereby, in the manner described, putting the dolly
into action again. While the second batch of clothes is
being washed, the operator shifts the handle which controls the wringing mechanism, so as to reverse the motion
of the wringer rolls, so that the garments in the rinse
water tub may be passed back through the rolls of the
wringer, and cast into a hamper. The second action
of the wringer rolls takes place simultaneously with the
washing of the second batch of clothes.

GRINNELL WASHING MACH. CO. v. JOHNSON CO. 431
426.

Opinion of the Court.

Th6-net result, it is contended-, of the Phillips patent
is that the washing and wringing are carried on simultaneously and the operations of the wringer rolls are
controlled by the handle described.
The claims alleged to be infringed are numbers five to
eight inclusive. Number six was selected by the petitioner
as typical in character, and is as follows:
"6. A gearing device of the class 'described, comprising
a support, a power shaft mounted on the support, means
for imparting a continuous rotary motion to the power
shaft, an upright shaft 45 mounted in the support, a
driving device for the upright shaft operatively connected
with the power shaft and capable of imparting an alternating rotary motion to the upright shaft, a horizontal
shaft 39, a driving mechanism. for the said shaft 39
connected with the power shaft and capable of imparting
a rotary motion to the shaft 39, and a controlling means
applied to the driving device for the shaft 39, for reversing
the movement thereof and also for operatively disconnecting the shaft 39 from the driving shaft."
Confessedly all the elements of the Phillips patent are
old. The merits of the combination, which, it is contended, involve invention and validate the patent, are
that this gearing device, applied and operated as specified,
enables the washing of a part of the clothes to be per-.
formed at the same time that the wringing process is
being applied to other clothes. Thus, it is said, saving
time in doing the washing, and, furthermore, by the operation of the control handle the rolls may be reversed or
instantly stopped as the need, convenience and safety of
the operator may require. These things, the simultaneous
washing and wringing, with'the operation of the control
handle, for the purposes stated, embrace the advances
alleged to have .been accomplished upon the prior art.
In this view it is uninecessary to particularize the prior
patents disclosed in the art. The question is, does this

OC'OBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

bringing together of old elements accomplishing thp purposes stated amount to that combination which is invention within the meaning of the patent law; or does the
gearing device, thus applied and used, show only an
aggregation of old elements performing well-known
functions, producing no novel and useful result entitling
the aggregation to the protection of a patent?
It is not always, easy to decide this question, as the
difference of opinion i- the Circuit Courts of -Appeals i.n
this case illustrates. Generally speaking, a combination
of old elements in order, to be patentable must produce
by their joint action a novel and useful result, or an old
result in a more'advantageous way. To arrive at the
distinctions between combinations and aggregations definite reference must be had to the decisions of this court.
The subject was fully, discussed in Palmer v. Corning,
156'U. S. 342, wherein the previous decisions were reviewed. The rule stated in Hailes v. VanWormer, 20
Wall. 353, 368, was quoted with approval, wherein the
court said:
"It must be conceded that a new combination, if it
produces new and useful results, is patentable, though all
the constituents of the combination were well known and
in common use before the combination was made. But
the results must be a product of the combination, and not
a mere aggregate of -several results, each the complete
product of one of the combined elements. Combined
results are not necessarily a novel result, nor are they an
old result obtained in a new and improved manner.
Merely bringing old devices into juxtaposition, and there
allowing each to work out its own effect without the production of something novel, is not inventicn. No one by
bringing together several old devices without producing
a new and useful result, the joint product of the elements
of the combination and something more than an aggregate
of old results, can acquire a right to prevent others from

GRINNELL WASHING MACH. CO. v. JOHNSON CO. 433
426.

Opinion of the Court.

using the same devices, either singly or in other combinations, or, even if a new and useful result is obtained, can
prevent others from using s6ire of the devices, omitting
others, in combination." Hailes v. VanWormer, 20 Wall.
353, 368.
-InRichards v. Chase Elevator Co., 158 U. S.-299, 302,.the
rule was stated as follows:
"Unless the combination accomplishes some new result, the mere multiplicity of elements does not make it,
patentable. So long as each element performs some old
and well-known function, the result is not a patentable
combination, but an aggregation of elements."
In Specialty Manufacturing Co. v. Fenton Metallic
Manufacturing Co., 174 U. S. 492, 498, the rule was again
tersely stated:
"Where a combination of old devices produces a new
result such combination is doubtless patentable, but
where the combination is not .only of old elements, but
of old results, and no new function is evolved from such
combination, it falls within the rulings of this court in
Hailes v. VanWormer, .20 Wall. 353, 368; Reckendorfer
v. Faber, 92 U. S. 347, 356; Phillipsv. Detroit, 111 U. S.
604; Brinkerhoff v. Aloe, 146 U. S. 515, 517; Palmer Y.
Corning, 156 U. S.342, 345; Richards v. Chase Elevator Co.,
158 U. S.299."
Applying the rule thus authoritatively settled by this
court, we think no invention is shown in assembling
these old elements for the purposes declared. No new
function is "eiiolved from this combination;" the new
result, so far as one is achieved, is only that which arises
from the well-known operation of each one of the elements.'
In the gearing specified every element is old. The
operations of the wringer and the washing machine, although simultaneous, are independent one of the other.
The control of the operation of the wringer is by an old and
well-known method. From the coSperation of the ele

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Diment.

247 U. S.

ments, here brought together, no new result, involving
the exercise of the creative faculty which 's invention, is
achieved. Phillips may have produced a more convenient and economical mechanism than others who preceded
him, but superiority does not make an aggregation patentable. Specialty Manufacturing Co. v. Fenton Metallic
ManufacturingCo., upra. The assemblage of the old elements, and their operation in the manner indicated, may
save time, and the mechanism may meet with a readier sale
than other similar devices, but these things may result
from mechanical skill and commercial enterprise, and do
not necessarily involve invention.
To borrow an illustration- made at the argument, we
think the Phillips aggregation of elements may be likened
to the operation of a number of different machines in a
factory by power applied from the same line shaft, each
operation contributing its separate part to the production
of a given result. 'So in this instance we think the combination accomplished by Phillips fails to show that exercise of invention, producing a novel and useful result
from the co6perating action of the elements, which is
essential to distinguish patentable combination from an
aggregation of old elements so placed by mechanical
skill as to do work more rapidly and economically.
We agree with the conclusion reached by the court
below.

Affirmed.
MR. JusTcE McKENNA dissents.

