LYNCH V.HORNBY.
330.

raised.

Syllabus.

Pullman Car Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.,

115 U. S. 587, 596; Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364, 391.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE CLA.RKE dissents.

LYNCH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA, v. HORNBY.
JERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 422. Argued March 4, 5, 6, 1918.-D3cided June 3, 1918.

rhe Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 166, drew a
distinction between a shareholder's undivided interest in the gains
and profits of a corporation prior to declaration of a dividend, and
his participation in the dividends declared and paid; treating the
latter, in ordinary circumstances, as part of his income for the purpose of the "surtax," and not regarding the former as taxable to him
unless fraudulently accumulated to evade the tax.
nder the Sixteenth Amendment, Congress may tax without apportiomnent dividends received in the ordinary course by a shareholder"
from a corporation, even though extraordinary in amount and derived from a surplus of corporate assets existing before the Amendment.
"nder the Income Tax Act of 1913, dividends declared and paid in
the ordinary course by a corporation to its shareholders after March
1, 1913, whether from current earnings or from a surplus accumulated before that date, were taxable to the individual shareholders
as income, under the "surtax" provision. Lynch v. Turrish, ante,
221, and Southern Pacifi Co. v. Lowe, ante, 330. distinguished.
36 Fed. Rep. 661, reversed.
THF. case

is stated in the opinion.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

The Solici or General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for petitioner,
Mr. A. W. Clapp, with whom Mr. N. H. Clapp, Mr. H.
Oldenburg and Mr. H. J. Richardson were on the brief,
for respondent.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America,
as amicus curiw,.
Ma. JUsTIcE PmrhY delivered the opinion of the court.
Hornby, the respondent, recovered a judgment in the
United States District Court against Lynch, as Collector
of Internal Revenue, for the return of $171, assessed as an
additional income tax under the Act of October 3, 1913,
c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 166, and paid under protest. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, 236 Fed.
Rep. 661, and the case comes here on certiorari. It was
submitted at the same time with Lynch v. Turrish, ante,
221; Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, ante, 330; and Peabody
v. Eisner, post, 347, arising under the same act, and this
day decided.
The facts, in brief, are as follows: Hornby, from 1906
to ,1915, was the owner of 434 (out of 10,000) shares of
the capital stock of the Cloquet Lumber Company, an
Iowa corporation, which for more than a quarter of a
century had been engaged in purchasing timber lands,
manufacturing the timber into lumber and selling it.
Its shares had a par value of $100 each, making the entire
capital stock $1,000,000. On and prior to March 1, 1913,
by the increase of the value of its timber lands andthrough its business operations, the total property of the
company had come to be worth $4,000,000, and Hornby's
stock, the par v~alue of which was $43,400, had become

LYNCH r'. HORNBY.
339.

Opinion of the Court.

worth at least $150,000. In the year 1914 the company
was engaged in cutting its standing timber, manufacturing
it into lumber, selling the lumber, and distributing the
proceeds among its stockholders. In that year it thus
distributed dividends aggregating $650,000, of which
$240,000, or 24 per cent. of the par value of the capital
stock, was derived from current earnings, and $410,000
from conversion into money of property that it owned or
in which it had an interest on March 1, 1913. Hornby's
share of the latter amount was $17,794, and this not
having been included in his income tax return, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue levied an additional tax of
$171 on account of it, and this forms the subject of- the
present suit.
The case was tried in the District Court and argued
in the Circuit Court of Appeals together with Lynch v.
Turrish,(236 Fed. Rep. 653), and was treated a presenting
substantially the same question upon the merits. In our
opinion it is distinguishable from the Turrish Case, where
the distribution in question was a single and final dividend
received by Turrisb from the Payette Company in liquidation of the entire assets and business of the company
and a return to him of the value of his stock upon the
surrender of his entire interest in the company, at a
price that represented its intrinsic value at and before
March 1, 1913, when the Income Tax Act took effect.
In the present case there was no winding up or liquidation of the Cloquet Lumber Company, nor any surrender
of Hornby's stock. He was but one of many stockholders,
and had but the ordinary stockholder's interest in the
capital and surplus of the company, that is, a right to
have them devoted to the proper business of the corporation and to receive from the current earnings or accumulated surplus such dividends as the directors in their discretion might declare. Gibbons v. Mahon, 136 U. S. 549,
557. The operations of this company in the year 1914

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

were, according to tbe, facts pleaded, of a nature essentially like those in which it bad been engaged for more
than a quarter of a century. The fact that they resulted
in converting into money, and thus setting free for distribution as dividends a part of its surplus assets accumulated prior to*March 1, 1913, does not render Hornby's
share of those dividends any the less a part of his income
within the true intent and meaning'of the act, the per-

tinent language of which is as follows (38 Stat. 166, 167):
"A. Subdivision 1. That there shall be levied,
assessed, collected and paid annually upon the entire
net income arising or accruing from all sources in the
preceding calendar year to every citizen of the United
States, .
United States,
.

.
.

and to every person residing in the
. . a tax of 1 per centum per annum

upon such income, except as hereinafter provided;
.
"B. That, subject only to such exemptions and
deductions as are hereinafter allowed, the net income of a
taxable person shall include gains, profits, and income
derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal
service

.

.

, also from interest, rent, dividends,

securities, or the transaction of any lawful business
carried on for gain or profit, or gains or profits and income
derived from any source whatever."
Among the deductions allowed for the purpose of the
normal tax is "seventh, the amount received as dividends
upon the stock or from the net earnings of any corporation,
.
which is taxable upon its net income as
hereinafter provided." There is a graduated additional
tax, commonly known as a "surtax," upon net income
in excess of $20,000, including income from dividends,
and for the purpose of this additional tax "the taxable
income of any individual shall embrace the share to.
which he would be entitled of the gains and profits, if
divided or distributed, whether divided or distributed or
not, of al corporations

formed or fraudulently

LYNCH r. HORNBY.
339.

Opinion of the Court.-

availed of for the purpose of preventing the imposition
of such tax through the medium of permitting such gains
and profits to iccumulate instead of being divided or
distributed."
It is evident that Congress intended to draw and did
draw a distinction between a stockholder's undivided
share or interest in the gains and profits of a corporation,
prior to the declaration of a dividend, and his participation in the dividends declared and paid; treating the
latter, in ordinary circumstances, as a part of his income
for the purposes of the surtax, and not regarding the
former as taxable income unless fraudulently accumulated
for the purpose f evading the tax.
This treatment of undivided profits applies only to
profits permitted to accumulate after the taking effect of
the act, since only with respect to these is a fraudulent
purpose of evading the tax predicable. Corporate profits
that accumulated before the act took effect stand on a
different footing. As to these, however, just as we deem
the legislative intent manifest to tax the stockholder
with respect to such accumulations only if and when, and
to the extent that, his interest in them comes to fruition as
income, that is, in dividends declared, so we can perceive
no constitutional obstacle that -stands in the way of
carrying out this intent when dividends axe declared out
of a preexisting surplus. The act took effect on March
1, 1913, a few days after the requisite number of States
had given approval to the Sixteenth Amendment, under
which for the first time Congress was empowered to tax
income from property without apportioning the tax
among the States according to population. Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, supra. That the retroactivity of the
act from the date of its passage (October 3, 1913) to a
date not prior to the adoption of the Amendment was permissible is settled by Brushaberv. Union PacificR. R. Co.,
240 U. S. 1, 20. And we deem it equally clear that Con-

OCTOBER- TERM, 1917.
-

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

gress was at liberty under the"Amendment to tax as income, without apportionment, everything that became income, in the ordinary sense of the word, pfter the adoption
of the Amendment, including dividends received in the
ordinary course by a stockholder from a corporation,
even 'though they were extraordinary in amount and
might appear upon analysis to be a mere realization in
possession of an inchoate and contingent interest' that
the stockholder had in a surplus of corporate assets
previously exis'ting. Dividends are the appropriate
fruit of stock ownership, are commonly reckoned as
income, and are expended as such by the stockholder
without regard-to whether they are declared from the
most recent earnings, or .from a surplus accumulated
from tjhe earnings of the past, or are based upon the
increased value of the property of the corporation. The
stockholder. is, in the ordinary case, a different entity
from the corporation, and Congress was at liberty to
treat the dividends as coming to him ab extra, and as
constituting a part of his income when they came to hand.
Hence we construe the provision of the act that "the
net income of a taxable person shall include gains, profits,
and income derived from ...
interest, rent, dividends, . , . or gains or profits and income derived
from any source whatever" as including (for the purposes
of the additional tax) all dividends declared and paid in
the ordinary course of business by a corporation to its
stockholders after the taking effect of the act (March 1,
1913), whether from current earnings, or from the accumulated surplus made up of past earnings or increaso
in value of corporate assets, notwithstanding it accrued
to the corporation in whole or in part prior to March 1,
1913. In short, the word "dividends" was employed inthe act as descriptive of one kind of gain to the individual
stockholder; dividends being treated as the tangible and
recurrent returns upon his stock, analogous to the in--

LYNCH
339.

'.

HORNBY.

345

Opinion of the Court.

trest and rent received upon other forms of invested
capital.
In the more recent Income Tax Acts, provisions have
been inserted for the puirpose of excluding from the effect
of the tax any dividends declared out of earnings or
profits that accrued prior to March 1, 1913. This originated with the Act of September 8, 1916, and has been
continued in the Act of October 3, 1917.1 We are referred
to the legislative.history of the Act of 1916, which it is
contended indicates that the new definition of the term
"dividends" was intended to be declaratory of the meanIn Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 757, which took
the place of the Act of 1913, the substance of what we have quoted
from paragraph B of the 1913 Act was embodied in ยง 2 (a), but with
this proviso: "Provided, That the term 'dividends'. as used in this title
shall be held to mean any distribution made or ordered to be made by
a corporation . . out of its earnings or profits accrued since March.
first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, and payable to its shareholders,
whether in cash or in stock of the corporation," etc. And by the Act
of October 3, 1917, c. 63,40 Stat. 300, 329, 337-8, ยง 2 (a) of the 1916
Act was amended by being repeated without the proviso (p. 329),
while the proviso was inserted as a new section-31 (a)-and to it
was added a subsection, (b), as follows:
"(b) Any distribution made to the shareholders or members of a
corporation

.

.

.

in the year nin'eteen hundred and seventeen. or

subsequent tax years, shall be deemed to have been made from the most
recently accumulated undivided profits or surplus, and shall constitute
a part of the annual income of the distributee for the year in which received, and shall be taxed to the distributee at the rates prescribed by
law for the years in which such profits or surplus were accumulated by
the corporation, . . . but nothing herein shall be construed as
taxing any earnings or profits accrued prior to March first, nineteen
hundred and thirteen, but such earnings or profits may be distributed
in stock dividends or otherwise, exempt from the tax, after the distribution of earnings and profits accrued since March first, nineteen
hundred and.thirteen, has been made. This subdivision shall not
apply to any distribution made prior to August sixth, nineteen hundred and seventeen, out of earnings or profits accrued prior to March
first, nineteen hundred and thirteen."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

ing of the term as used in the 1913 Act. We cannot accept this suggestion, deeming it more reasonable to regard
the change as a concession to the equity of stockholders
granted in the 1916 Act, in view of constitutional questions that had been raised in this case, in the companion case of Lynch v. Turrish, and perhaps in other cases.
These two cases were commenced in October, 1915;
and decisions adverse to the tax were rendered in the District Court in January, 1916, and in the Circuit Court of
Appeals September 4, 1916.
We repeat that under the 1913 Act dividends declared
and paid in the ordinary course by a corporation to its
stockholders after March 1, 1913, whether from current
earnings or from a surplus accumulated prior to that date,
were taxable as income to the stockholder.
We do not overlook the fact that every dividend distribution diminishes by just so much the assets of the corporation, and in a theoretical sense reduces the intrinsic
value of the stock. But, at the same time, it demonstrates
the capacity of the corporation to pay dividends, holds
olxt.a promise of further dividends in the future, and quite
probably increases the market value of the shares. In
our opinion, Congress laid hold of dividends paid in the
ordinary course as de facto income of the stockholder,
without regard to the ultimate effect upon the corporation
resulting from their payment.
Of course we are dealing here with the ordinary stockholder receiving dividends declared in the ordinary way
of business. Lynch v. Turrish and Southern Pacific Co.
v. Lowe, rest upbn their special facts and are plainly distinguishable.
It results from what we have said that it was erroneous
to award a return of the tax collected from the respondent,
and that the judgment should be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Courtfor
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

