OCTOBER TRM.,

354

1917.

Counsex torPlaintiffs in Error.

247 U. S.

McCOY ET AL., EXECUTORS OF McCOY, v. UNION
ELEVATED RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPRPM E COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 19G. Argued March 14, 15, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.
The contract clause relates to legislative, not to judicial, action impairing obligation of cofitracts.
In an action for damages to abutting property due to construction,
maintenence and operation of an elevated railroad, .in a street of
,,which the fee was in the public, the state court held that recovery
depended upon 'the effect on market value, in determining which
increase of such value arising from increase of travel should be considered and treated. 'as a special benefit, though enjoyed also by
other neighboring property. Held, that there was no basis for invoking the equal protection clause, and that the ruling-did not
depriye' of property without due process of law.
Where private proprty-is taken for public purposes, the fundamental
Sright guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment is that the owner
shall not be deprived of the market value tinder a rule of law. which
makes it impossible for him to obtain-just compeiisation. There is
no guarantee that the rule adopted by the State shail be the 'one.
best supported by reason or"authority, or against mere errors in the
boume of the trial,'It _is almost, universally held thatin arriving at the amount of damages to property not taken," allowance should be made fgr peculiar
and individual-benefits conferred upon it, and it cannot be said that
extension of the rule to Include increase of market value resulting
directly from the public improvement where all property'in the'
neighborhood. is sinilarly benefited deprives of the fundamental
right protected by the Amendment.
271 Illinois, 490, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr.HarryS. Mecartney, with whom Mr. John S. Miller
was-on the briefs, for plaintiffs in'error.

McC6Y r. UNION ELEVATED R. R. CO.
354.

355,

Opinion of tl~e Court.

*Mr.Frawcis W. Walker and Mr. Roger L. Foote, with
whom Mr. Addison L. Gardner qnd Mr. Randall W. Burns
were on the brief, for defendants in error'.
MR. JUSnciC
the court.-

McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of

William A. McCoy, testator' of plaintiffs in'error, owned
a hotelsituated
at the northwest coner' of Clark and Van

)Bufen Streets, Chicago

Duing' 1897 defendants con-

structed along the latter street and in front of the building an-elevated passenger railroad of -he ordinary type
and have-continued to maintain and op'erdte it. Charging
that. construction, maintenan-e and operation of the railroad had caused And would continue to cause injury to
the property by noise, smoke, dirt, shutting off air and
light, disturbing privacy and impairing the freedom of
ingress and egress and. that its market value had been
greatly reduced, McCoy brought a common law action
(Septembei, 1902) in .a state court to recover the entire
damage.
The declaration does not allege plaintiff's ownership
of the fee in -the street, but asserts his interest in the lotand right to the "easements and privileges which Ifegally
appertain and rightfully belong to' property labiitting
public streets" in Chicago, including the right of'light,
air, access, privacy, view, etc. .Trial to a juiy upon',plea
of not guilty., during February, 1914, resulted in verdict
for defendants and judgment thereonwas affirmed by the
Supreme Court, a writ of error having been sued out by
McCoy's executors. 271 Illinois, 490. That court's statement of facts follows:
"During the years '1896 and 1897 what is generally
known, as the 'loop' was constructed, under authority
conferred by-rdinances of the city of Chicago, for the,
joint use of the three systems above mentioned and an-

356i

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

other elevated system then in course of construction. -The
loop consists of an elevated structure 'in th streets encircling the central prt6n of. the business district -f4the
city, upon which are lWid tracks for the passage of the
elevated trains of all of the defendant compames completely around the central portion of -the business district.
Before the construction of the loop the elevated trains of
the defendant companies, stopped at their respective terminals. The structure forming the south side of the loop
was placed in that portion of Van Buren street extending
from Wabash avenue on the east to Fifth avenue on the
west, Clark street being one of the streets intersecting Van
Buren 'treet between these two avenues. Stations: to
permnt passengers to board and feave the eleivated trains
were established at irtervals arbund the loop nd sairways were constructed leading from each station to the
surface of the street. One of these stations in Van Buren
street was established at La Salle street, about one himdred feet west from the McCoy Hotel, and another was
established at Dearborn street, about three hundred feet
east from the hotel. The elevated structure in Van Buren
street obstructed the passage of light to the store rooms
in McCoy's building, anid the noise from the passage of
trains over the structure and the fact that passing trains
were on a level with the windows of the second floor of
the building rendered the rooms on the south side of the
second and third floors of the building less desirable for
hotel purposes. Large upright columns supporting the
elevated structure were placed just inside the curb in
front bf the Premises and rendered the premises less accessible from the street.
"Thereis no material controversy over the facts in the
case. The witnesses all agree that the matters above
mentioned, when considered by themselves, would be
detrimental to the premises. They also agree that there
was a steady increase of from five to ten per cent. per year

McCOY P. UNION ELEVATED R. R. CO.
354.

357

Opinion of the Court.

in the value of the premises from the construction of the
loop until 1905. It also appears from the evidence that
the rents from the store rooms on the ground floor constantly increased after 1897. The plaintiff called but one
real estate expert as a witness. He testified that the
damages to the property from the construction of the
elevated structure, and the operation of the trains thereon,
amounted to $81,999, being fifteen per cent. of the value
which the witness placed upon the interest of McCoy in
the premises. He admitted that there had been a continuous increase in the value of the premises since the
completion of the loop, and that a portion of that increase,
which he said it was impossible to estimate, was due
to the increased travel brought to the premises by the
elevated railroad, but that he did not take that into consideration in fixing the damages. The real estate experts called by the defendants, on the other hand, testified that at least one-half of the increase in the value
of the premises was due to the increased travel in front
of the premises resulting from the operation of the elevated
railroad in Van Buren street as a part of the loop.. In
support of the testimony of these witnesses defendants
proved that the number of persons boarding the elevated
trains at the La Salle street station, in Van Buren street,
during the three months of the year 1897 in which trains
were operated around the loop, was 161,763, and that the
number constantly increased until in 1905 there was
3,659,583 persons who boarded the trains at that station.
It was also shown that during the period in 1897 above
mentioned 194,904 persons boarded the elevated trains
at the Dearborn street station, in Van Buren street, and
that the number constantly increased each year until in
1905 there were 2,558,976 persons who boarded the trains
at that station."
During the trial, over plaintiff's objections, questions
concerning evidence were determined in accordance with

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1917,
Opinion of the Court,

247 U, q.

repeated rulings by the Illinois Supreme Court that the
effect .of construction, maintenance and operation of an
elevated road upon market value was the point for determination; and that increase in such value taused by
the improvement itself should'be considered and treated
as a special benefit, although enjoyed by other neighborhood property.
Among others, plaintiff requested -the following instructions:
"The jury are instructed that the constitution of this
state provides -that 'private property shall not be taken
or damaged for public use without. just compensation.'
This action is brought by plaintiff for an alleged damage.
to the property of plaintiff arising from the cznstruction
[maintenance and -operationi of the structure in- the
abutting -street f~r elevated railroad purposes. Such
damages in the eye of the law can, only be a loss in "the
market value of the property arising from the said construction, [maintenance and operation] for the purposes
aforesaid.. Whether the premises in question have in,
fact been so .damaged is for the jury to find from the
evidence, according to the method and within the limitations of other instructions given you.
"The court instructs the jury that 'benefits' and
'damages' spoken of in. the instruction mean benefits
and damages to the market value thereof, and that by
the term 'market value' of property, as used in these
instructions, is meant the price at which the owner if
desirous of selling,-would under ordinary circumstances
surrounding the sales of property have sold the property
f6r, and what a person desirous as purchaser wofild
have paid for it under the same circumstances."
"The jury are .instructed that" in considering. te
question of whether the premises in question were o,
were not damaged by the construction of the structure
in the abutting street.:for elevated railroad purposes..

McCOY 1. UNION ELEVATED R. R. CO.
354.

359

Opinion of the Court.

they are to exclude from consideration all benefit which
accrued to the said premises or to the owners thereof by
reason of improved travel facilities furnished by said
elevated railroad."
The words "maintenance and operation" were inserted
in the first of these requests and as thus amended it was
given; the others were refused.
The following instructions were also given:,
"The court instructs the jury that benefits and damages spoken of in these instructions mean benefits and
damages to the fair cash market value thereof and that
by the term fair cash market value of the property as
used in these instructions is meant its value as determined
by what it would sell for in the market for cash in the due
course of business. This does not mean the price at
which it would sell under special circumstances, but its
value as sold in the market Under ordinary circumstances
for cash, and not on time, and assuming that the owner is
willing and not compelled to sell and the purchaser is
willing and under no compulsion to purchase."
"The jury is instructed that if you believe from the
evidence that plaintiff's premises have been increased
in their fair, cash, market value by the construction,
maintenance and operation of defendants' said railroad,
and if you also believe from the evidence that other
property in the neighborhood of the plaintiff's premises
not abutting upon the defendants' railroad have been
likewise increased in their fair, cash, market value by the
construction, maintenance and operation of said railroad,
but to a greater extent than. the plaintiff's said premises,
you have no right from that fact'to find that the plaintiff's premises-have been damaged.
"Special benefits are such benefits as are special or
peculiar to a particular piece of property, and which
beneficially affect its fair, cash, market value, as"distinguished from those benefits which are common to the

360

OCTOBER.TERM, 1917.
Opinion of ihe Court.,

247 U. S.

.-public at- large, and which are termed general benefits;
and you are instructed that 'indetermining the effect
of the construction, maintenance and operation of defendants' elevated railroad upon the fair, cash, market
value of plaintiff's said premises, you are not to take into
consideration any. general benefits which you may believe from the evidence to have arisen out of the construction, maintenance and operation of said elevated railroad,
but you should take into consideration special benefits,
if any, shown by the evidence, to plaintiff's said premises
'-from the construction, maintenance and operation of de.fendants' said elevated railroad.
"The jury Js instructed that if you believe from the
evidence that tie property of the plaintiff described in
the declaratioi of this case was enhanced in. its fair,
cash, market value by reason of the construction, maintenance and operation of the elevated railroad of the
defendants, such increase in market value is a special benefit to the property of the plaintiff and not a general benefit, notwithstanding you may believe from the evidence
that the other property in the vicinity of plaintiff's property also was enhanced in fair, cash, market value to a
greater or -less degree by reason of the construction,
maintenance and operation of defendants' said elevated
railroad."
"The jury is instructed that. the measure of damages
in a case of -this ldnd is the difference between the fair,
cash, market value of the premises with the elevated
railroad constructed, maintained and operated in the
street in front of it, and what the fair, cash, market value
of said premises would have been had not said elevated
railroad been so constructed, maintained and operated.
If you* believe from the evidence that the fair, cash,
market value of the -plaintiff's premises with the railroad
constructed, maintained and operated in Van Buren
street has not been diminished below-what you believe

McCOY r..
UNION ELEVATED R. R. CO.
354.

361

Opinion of the Court.

from the evidence the fair, cash, market value of said
premises would have been if the said elevated railroad had
not been constructed, maintained and operated in said
street, then said plaintiff's premises have not been damaged by the construction, maintenance and operation of
defendants' elevated railroad."
The Supreme Court said:
"The contention made by plaintiffs in error upon
which most of the assignments of error depend is, that the
benefits to the premises by reason of the increased travel
in front of the premises resulting from the operation of
the elevated railroad in Van Buren street as a part of
the loop cannot be considered in determining whether
the premises have been damaged by the construction of'
the elevated structure and the operation of trains thereon,
first, because such benefits are general benefits, common
to all the property in the vicinity; and second, because
such benefits are conjectural and speculative. The same
contention was made in Brand v. Union Elevated Railroad Co., 258 Ill. 133, Geohegan v. Union Elevated Railroad Co., 258 id. 352, and Geohegan v. Union Elevated
Railroad Co., 266 id. 482, and in each of those cases we
held that such benefits should be considered in determining whether premises abutting on a public street have
been damaged by the construction and operation of an
elevated railroad in such street. The reasons for such
holding were fully set forth in the opinions filed in the cases
a'6ove mentioned and it would serve no useful purpose
to repeat them here. It is sufficient to say that we adhere
to the views expressed in the former cases involh ing
.
. Comthe same question as is here presented. .
giving
certain
of
the
action
of
the
court
in
plaint is made
instructions on behalf of defendants in error and in refusing or modifying certain instructions submitted by
Moreover, the evidence in this case
complainant. ...
would not have sustained a verdict in favor of the plain-

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1917..
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

tiff, and any error committed by the trial court in giving,
refusing or modifying instructions was therefore harmless.".
In their brief here counsel for plaintiffs in error declare:
"Plaintiff presented his' case, therefore, upon the basis
that his damage was to be estimated:
"(1) By taking the market value of the premises
immediately before the advent of the Loop; then
"(2) To consider how the structure in question placed
-.

in the-block upon. which his premises abutted (which

defined the 'physical! scope of his property or rights)forever dedicated to railroadUses and to be operated therefor,
would actually interfere with the actual use and enjoyi ent of the premises; and then
"(3) To estimate to what extent such structure put
or dedicated to such use, would reduce that market
value. That is, to capitalize the permanent interference,
i. e., damage. (AS laid down in Lewis, 3d Ed., § 693.)
"In the trial court the main conflictf was waged over
the question as to whether or not the court should*admit
on behalf of defendants evidence of 'general' or 'travel'
benefits occurring from the establishment of the Loop
in its -entirety, or whether the evidence should be held
down -to the issue of 'direct, proximate and physical
effect.' Said -court, following the late ruling of the
Illinois Supreme Court in Brand v. Union Elev. R. R. Co.,
258. IU, 133 (a review of which was asked in this court in.
238 U, S. 586, same title), tried the case upon the' basis
of aliowing this special damage to be offset or reduced
by, or considered in, connection with the estimated
amount of market benefit that accrued to the premises
from 'tra, -el benefits."'
And -they now maintain that the judgment below is
erroneous because it (1) impairs the contract which their
testator made when he purchased the property contrary
to § 10, Article I, Federal Constitution, (2) denies'to them

McCOY v.UNION ELEVATED R. R. CO.
354.

363.

Opinion of the Court.

the equal protection of the laws and (3) deprives them of
property without due process of law in violation of the'
Fourteenth Amendment. The first claim is clearly untenable; the contract; clause prohibits legislative not judicial
action. Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 161, 164; MooreMansfield Co. v. Electrical Co., 234 U. S. 619, 623, 624;
Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 344. Nothing in the
record affords support for the second claim. The third
demands consideration.
We may examine proceedings in state courts for appropriation of private'property to public purposes so far as
to.inquire whether i rule of law was adopted in absolute
disregard of the owner's right to just compensation. If
the necessary result was to deprivehim of property without such compensation then due process of law was denied
him, contrary to Fourteenth Amendment.
Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226, 246; Backus v. Fort.Street Union Depot Co., 169
U. S. 557, 565; Fayerweatherv. Ritch, 195 U. S. 276, 298.
Our concerli is not to ascertain whether the rule adopted
by the State is the one best, supported by reason or
authority nor with mere errors in course of trial but with
denial of a fundamental right. Appleby v. Buffalo, 221
U. S. *524, 532. And see McGovern v. New York, 229 U.
S.363, 371. And here it must be noted that the claim is
for damages to property not actually taken from the
owner's dominion.
The Illinois constitution provides: ''private property
shall not be taken or damaged for public use without just
compensation.". In Peoria, Bloomington & Champaign
Traction Co. v. Vance, 225 Illinois, 270, 272, where the
owner sought damages to the balance of his farm resulting
from taking a right-of-way for an electric road, the court
pointed out the applicable doctrine long established in
the State. It said:
"Since the adoption of the constitutio of 1870 it has

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

been uniformly held by -this court., -in such cases as this,
that the measure of damages to land not taken is-'the
difference in the fair cash market value of the land before
and after the construction of the railroad,' or 'the amount,
if any, which lands not taken will be depreciated in their
fair cash market value by the construction and operation
of the proposed road.' . . . Under the rule adopted
in this State for determining whether, or in what amount,
property not taken will be damaged by the construction
and operation of a railroad, any benefits which are not
conjectural or speculative, and which actually enhance
the market value of such property, are to be considered
as special benefits and notas general benefits, within the
meaning of the rule that general benefits cannot be considered in determining Whether, or in what: amount,
property not taken will be damaged. Special benefits do
not become general benefits because the benefits are
common to other property in the vicinity. The fact that
other property .in the vicinity of the proposed railroad
will also be increased in value by reason of the construction
and operation thereof furnishes no excuse for excluding
the consideration of special benefits to the particular
property in determining whethei it has been damaged,
and if it has, the extent of the depreciation in value."
This doctrine was again expressly affirmed in Brand v.
Union Elevated R. R. Co., 258 flinois, 133-a proceeding
like the present one to recover damages caused by constructing, maintaining and operating an elevated railroad
along the street. The trial court below accepted and
applied the approved rule and we are now asked to declare that it absolutely disregards the owner's fundamental
right to just compensation-that it necessarily deprives
him of such compensation.
How far benefits must be considered in determining
damages to property when claimed on account of a public
improvement is a vexed question which has given occasion

MCCOY r. UNION ELEVATE5-iR. R. CO.
3Opinion

365

of the Court.

for numberless decisions in different St.tes, as well as
much legislationi. The matter is elaborately treated and
the cases collected in Lewis on Eminent Domain. and
Nichols on Eminent Domain. In the former, § 687,
3d ed., it is said: "The decisions may be divided into five
classes, according as they maintain one or the'other of the
following propositions: First. Benefits cannot be considered at all. Second. Special benefits May be set off
against damages io the remainder, but ot against the
value of the part taken. Tehird. Benefits, whether
general or special, may be set off as in the last proposition.
Fourth. Special benefits may be set off against both
damages to the remainder or the value of the part taken.
Fifth. Both general and special benefits may be set off
as in the last proposition." The latter work at § 256,
2d ed., says: "It is universally recognized that when there
is no taking the damages to a tract of land from the construction of a public work cannot be correctly ascertained
#itbout determining whether the tract has been depre,(iated in value, and to deternine this all the effects of the
public work, beneficial or injurious, must be considered.
Strictly speaking, it is said, it is not a question of benefits
at all, except that proof of benefits might be one way of
showing that there had been no injury. The real question
is, had, the property in question been decreased in market
value by the construction of the public improvement, and
the amount of damage is the decrease in such value. In
most States however it is only special benefits that can be
set off; but in the States which allow the set-off of general
benefits to remaining land when part of a tract is taken,
the same latitude'is given in awarding damages when no
land is taken."
The fundamental right guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment is that the owner shall not be deprived of the
market value of his property under a rule of law which
makes it impossible for him to obtain just compensation.

°
3

-OCTOBER TERM,,1917.

Opinion of the Court

247 U: S.

There is no -guarantee that he shall derive a positive
pecuniary advantage: from. apubl-ics work whenever a
neighbor -does. It is -alost,uiversaly held that in arriving at- the amount, .of dAm.age to property not -taken
allowance' shouldbe made for ,peculiar and indiidual
benefts conferred upon it---compensation to the owner
in that form is permissible. And we are iunable to sa~y
t hat he'suffers deprivation of any fundamental right when
a State- goes o6 step further and- permits consideration
of actual- benefits-enhaiiement- inmarket value'flow-

dectly

n a

lic vrk

'

although all -in the

neighborhood receiv likeAdv-a-ntages' in such 6ase the
owner really loses -othingwhichboe Iad before; and imay
be said'with reason, there has been no real injury.'
This sdibject Wasmuch-discussed in'Bauman-v. Ross,
167 U.-S. 548, 574,'1584 . Thr6ughl-Mr. Justice Gray' we
there said: "The just compnsa'tion required'by
'the
Constitution to be made io the owner is to be 'measured
by the loss Icaused to hi by' the appropriation. He is
entitled to receive the'value of' what he has been deprived
of, and- n- more. To award him less would be unjusi to
him; to award him more would be unjust to the public.
Consequently, when part only of a.parcel of land is taken
for a highway, the value of that part is not, the sole measure 'of the compensation or d~mages to be paid to the
owner; buf the incidental injury or benefit to the part not
taken is also to be considered. When the part not taken
is left ip such shape or condition, as to be in itself of less
value than before, the owner is entitled to -additional
damages on that accomit. When, on the btlier hand, the part which he retains is specially and directly increased
-in value by the public hinprovement, the damages to the
whole parcel by the appropriation of part of it are lessened." .
The Constitution of the United States
contains no express prohibition against considering benefits in estimating the just compensation to be paid for pri.

