372

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U. S.

U. S. 170, 172. These 'established principles and our
holding in Central Vermont Ry: Co. v. White, 238 U. S.
507, 511, 512, we think makeit clear that the question of
burden of proof is a matter of substance nd not subject
to Itcontrol
laws of the several States.
was by
also error to give quoted- instruction
'number
eight. Since the deceased 'endured no conscious suffering
he'had no Tight of action; and possible recovery was limited to pecumiar'y loss sustained by the designated beneficiary. Garrettv. Louisville '& Nashville R. R. Co.,- 235
U. S. 308, 312; Chsapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Kelly, 241
U. S. 485, 489.
The act makes the widow sole beneficiary when there
is no child and onIr in the absence of both may parents
be considered. The deceased left awidow'and although
they had lived apart no claim is made that rights and liabilities consequent upon marriage had disappeared under
local-law. Of course, we do not go beyond the particular
facts here disclosed. In the circumstances, proof of the
mother's pecuniary loss could not support a recovery,
: The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
for fu ther prodeedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

CHELENTIS v. LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 657.

Argued April 18, 1918.-Decided Jun 3, 1918.

By the general maritime law, the vessel owner is liable only for the
maintenance, cure and wages of a seaman injured in the service of
his ship, by the negligence of a member of the crew, whether

CHELENTIS i,.
LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
372.

373

Argument for Petitioner.

a superior officer or not; and this- liability is not subject to
be enlarged to full common-law indemnity by the law of a
State. Southwen Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205. So held,
in a case brought in a state court of New York, and removed to
the District Court, to recover full common-law damages from a
Delaware owner for injuries received at tea on a voyage to New
'
York.
Section 20 of the Seamen's Act of March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1185,
declaring "seamen having command shall not be held to be fellowservants with those under their authority," was not intended to
substitute the common-law measure of liability for the maritime
rule in such cases.
The Judiciary Act of 1789, § 9, giving exclusive original admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction to the District Courts, saves "to suitors, in
all cases, the right of a common law remedy, where the common law
is competent to give it." Held, that this, recognizing the fundamental distinction between rights and remedies, allows a right sanctioned
by maritime law to be enforced through an appropriate common-law
remedy, but does not give a plaintiff his election to have the defendant's liability measured by common-law standards instead of those
prescribed by the maritime law.
243 Fed. Rep. 536, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Silas B. Axtell, with whom Mr. Arthur L. Burchell
was on the brief, for petitioner:
All decisions concede to the common-law courts the
right to apply their own rem2ies in accordance with the
provisions of the saving claus- in § 9 of the Judiciary Act
of 1789. As concurrent remedies existed at common law
and under the maritime law in such cases, .a suitor always
enjoyed the right to determine which remedy should be
pursued. Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 185 (an action for
wages); Schoonmaker v. 9ilmore, 102 U. S. 118 (a collision
case); Chappell v. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132 (damages by
fire caused by negligence); Knapp v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S.
638 (lien for towage); Kallec v. Deering, 161 Massachusetts, 469 (personal injuries to a seaman, opinion per
Mr. Justice Holmes).

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

247 U. S,

The concurrent jurisdiction of the two systems of law
arises from the saving, clause and it has been held many
times that the only remedy which the common law is
not competent to give under that-section is the right to
an. action t rem In a maritime matter. Of those cases
the admiralty courts have' unquestioned and exclive
Y. 546; The
jurisdiction., McDonaldy. Mallory, 77T
Hamilton, 207 U. S 398; Rounds v. Cloverport Foundry,
237 U. S. 301; The Hine v: Trevor,4 Wall. 555. In saving
the comnon law Congress intended t6 save the common
law o the States, there being no United States common
e~-591-657; Western Union
law. JVheatoiz,' r. Pees
TelegraphC-. Y. -Call Publishing,Co., 181 U. S. 92-101.
This intention:, was crystallized by § 721, Rev. Stats.
Congress intended -to supplement the 'very limited law of
the-sea by saving rights'at'common law. See The Moses
Taylor, 4 Wall.'411; Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 440, 460461; American Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522, 530,
532, 534; Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389, 395.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; and
Schwede v. Zenith S. S. Co., 244 U. S: 646, show clearly
that there are two jurisdictions, each independent of the
other and each working out its own body of law according
to its own ideas. A-few illustrations will serve to Show the
application of differenf law upon the same facts in these
two courts. Erie 1.,R. -Co. v. Erie Transportation Co.,.
204U. S. 220; Beld n v. Chase, 150.U: S. 674; Workman v.
New Yor City, 179 U. S. 552; The China, 7 Wall. 53.
Homer Ramsdell Co. v. Compagnie Gknrale, etc., 182 U. S.
406; Quebec S. S. Co. v. Merchant, 133 U. S. 375; The
Osceola, 189 .U.S. 158. ' In 'England the courts of common law apply common-law principles (Hedley v. Pinkney,
[18941 A.. C. 222); also in Ireland (Ramsay v. Quitn, Ir.
Rep. 8 C. L. 322), and in Scotland (Leddy v. Gibson, 11
Ct. Sess. Cas., 3d series, 304).
The liability of the master to the servant is a liability

CHELENTIS '. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
372.

Argument for Petitioner.

imposed by law and is not a matter of contract. The contract fixes the relation of the parties, the law does the rest.
The John G. Stevens, 170 U. S. 113; Knapp v. McCaffrey,
177 U. S. 638; Martin v. Pittsburgh Ry. Co., 203 U. S.
284' Keithley v. Northern Pacific S. S. Co., 232 Fed. Rep.
255, 259; Swayne & Hoyt v. Barsch, 226 Fed. Rep. 581,
590; The Quickstep, 9 Wall. 665, 670.
The principles here contended for. do -not tend to destroy the uniformity of the admiralty law. When Congreis left open the common law over torts committed at
-sea it must have contemplated just such a case as this.
If it had been essential that the admiralty jurisdiction be
made exclusive, we believe that Congress could, without
offense to constitutional provisions,, have made it so. If
at any time it should develop that greater uniformity is
needed, the power always rests with Congress to attain
that -end by appropriate legislation, as in the analogous
situation covered by the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.
Admiralty courts often follow the common law, for the
reason that the law of admiralty, being, as it is, a collection of a few rules and customs of the sea which are
grossly inadequate to cover its needs, literally borrowed
common-law principles. Common-law courts on the
other hand never administer the admiralty law. In a
common-law action on a maritime contract, as where a.
seaman sues for damages for failure of the ship owner to
supply him with treatment for injuries, the contract is
interpreted in the light of admiralty law but that law is
not the basis of recovery. Harden-v. Gordon, 2 Mason,
541; Holt v. Cummings, 102 Pa. St. 212. When, however,
a case arises in a common-law court where the relief de-,
manded cannot bp sustained on some principle known
to the common law, the court will refuse to act. Unless
such a principle can be applied, the remedy asked for is
not a remedy which the common law is competent to

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

247 U. S,

give. See, e. g., Lipson v.Harrison,Q. B., 1854, 24 Eng.
L. & Eq. 208; Merritt v. Tice, 77 App. Div. 326.
Section 20 of the Seamen's Act of 1915 removed the
only obstacle to recovery in a common-law action by
abolishing the fellow-servant rule.
The same is true of its effect upon the maritime law,
for there also it was the fellow-servant rule alone which
prevented recovery by a seaman from the owner on account of personal injuries received in his work and not due
to unseaworthiness of the ship. Save for this rule, it is
incorrect to say that in maritime law recovery was limited
to maintenance and cure. - Those were independent contractual rights, really part of the seaman's wages (Harden
v. Gordon, 2 Mason, 541). There is nothing in the maritime law which makes them exclusive of other claims.
The admiralty courts have followed the courts of common law, and the reason why the ship owner is liable
only for failure to supply a seaworthy .hip is that, under
that law, unamended, all on board a ship are fellow servants, and if the ship be seaworthy then, obviously, any
injury which occurred would have to be caused by either
the negligence of the injured person or one of his fellow
sef-vants, and, therefore, there could be no recovery. If,
on the other hand, the ship were unseaworthy and a seaman were injured because of it, he was allowed to recover
damages upon the theory that the ship owner had failed
to supply him with a reasonably safe place in which to
workthat expression being synonymous with "seaworthy
vessel." The matters decided in The Osceola, 189 U. S.
158, are not inconsistent with this view. The court was
not promulgating any new rules in that case, and an examination of the-decisions apon which it based its rulings
will show them all founded on the fellowv-servait doctrine.
See also The Queen, 40oFed. Rep. 694, 697; The Sachem,
42 Fed. Rep. 66; The Bolivia, 59 Fed. Rep. 626, 628;
The Miami, 93 Fed. Rep. 218; The Eg'yptian Monarch,

CHELENTIS r. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
372.

-Argument for Respondent.

36 Fed. Rep. 773; The New York, 204 Fed. Rep. 765;
The Nyack, 199 Fed. Rep. 383; The Buffalo, 154 Fed. Rep.
815; Bettis v. Leijland, 153 Fed. Rep. 571; Matter of Tonawanda Iron & Steel Co., 234 Fed. Rep. 198.
After a careful review of all the cases reported involving
torts occurring on shipboard, we find that, with the exception of the case at bar and Cornell Steamboat Co. v.
Fallon, 179 Fed. Rep. 293, where the opinion was by the
same judge, both state and federal courts have considered
the common-law principles which determine liability as
between master and servant on land to be the principles
which determine liability as between geaman and owner
on board ship.
Mr. Peter S. Carter,for respondent, submitted.
On the evidence the trial court was, as a matter of law,
ju~tified in finding that the respondent was free from negligehce, dismissing the complaint and directing a verdict
i4 favor of the respondent.
Even if it had been shown by the testimony of the peIAitioner that the respondent was liable for the acts of the
officer, the respondent still would not have been liable for
the petitioner's injuries beyond his m4intenance and cure,
within the law established by the following decisions:
Globe S. S. Co: v. Moss, 245 Fed. Rep. 54, 60; The Bouker
No. 2, 241 Fed. Rep. 831; The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158;
The Bunker Hill, 198 -Fed. Rep. 587, 588, 591; Cornell
Steamboat Co. v. Fallon, 179 Fed. Rep. 293-295; The P.
P. Miller, 180 Fed. Rep. 288, 290; The Nyack, 199 Fed.
Rep. 383, 389, 390; Wilson v. Manhattan Canning Co.,
205 Fed. Rep. 996. As no claim is made in the case under
review for maintenance and cure, and as the petitioner
stands.upon his common-law rights, he cannot recover any
damages from the respondent where his injuries .are caused
by his fault.
As a matter of law the trial court was justified in finding,

'378

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1917. Opinion of the Court.-

247 U. S.

on the evidence, that the petitioner was guilty of contributhry ngligence. Petitioner relies on § 20 of the Seamen's Act of 1915, claiming that it, applies to subordinate officers, as well as the master and chief engineer, of a
vessel, As to negligence in the performace of their duties,
and relieves the seaman- (the petitioner) from his acts of
contributory negligence. We maintain that the section
was passed to put at rest all uncertainty as to whether
the master of the vessel or those as, high in command
as the- master-the chief engineer-were fellow servants
with the seamen under them, as that question of law was
left open in the cage of The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, and the
case of The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 406. In the admiralty
contributory negligence of a seaman does not bar his
his right to recover; but the. case under review is a com-mon-law -action, and in the common law contributory
negligence, however slight, bars the right to.recoVer. I
As -a matter of law the trial court was justified in finding that the petitioner assumed the risk.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLD! delivered the opinion of the
court.

In December, 1915, petitioner was employed by respondent, a- Delaware corporation, as fireman on board the
steamship "J. L. Luckenbach" which it then operated
and controlled. While'at sea, twenty-four hours out from
New York, the port of destination, petitioner undertook.
to perform certain duties on deck during a heavy wind;
a wave came aboard, knocked him d6wn and broke his leg.
He received due care immediately; when the vessel
arrived at destination he Was taken t6 the'mar "e hospital
where he remained for three months; during that time it
became necessaryto amputate his lag. After discharge
from the hospital, claiming that his injuries resulted from
the negligence- and an improvident order of a superior.

C.HELENTIS v. L(JCKENBACH S. S. 00.
372.

Opinion of the Court.

officer, he instituted a common law action in Supreme
Court, New York County, demanding full indemnity
for damage sustained. The cause was removed to the
United States District Court because of diverse citizenship. Counsel did not question seaworthiness of ship or
her appliances and announced that no claim was made
for maintenance, cure, or wages. At conclusion of plaintiff'sjudgment
evidence the court directed verdict for respondent,
and
thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 243 Fed. Rep. 536. The latter court said:
"The contract of a seaman is maritime and has written
into it those peculiar features of the maritime law that
were considered in the case of The OsceOla [189 U. S.158];
and although, because of these peculiahities, such con-

tracts are almost invariably litigated in admiralty court,,
still the contract must be the same in every court, maritime or common law. The .only difference between a
proceeding in one court or the other would be that the
remedy would be regulated by the lex fori. -If a seaman
who had been locked up or put in irons for disobedience
of orders were to sue the master for damages in a court
of common law, he could not recover like a shore servant,
such as a cook or chauffeur, who had received the same
treatment. So a seaman bringing suit in a common law
court for personal injuries could recover, even if guilty of
contributory negligence, although a shore servant suing in
the same court could not; and a seaman suing ih a common law court for personal injuries could recover (except
in the case of unseaworthness of the vessel or failure to
give proper care and medical attention) only wages to the
end of the voyage and the expenses for maintenance and
cure for a reasonable time thereafter, whereas in a similar
case a shore servant would be entitled to recover full indemnity. Therefore, by virtue of the inherent nature of
the seaman's contract, the-defendant's negligence and the
plaintiff's contributory negligence were totally immaterial

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

consideratiolis in this case; the sole question for the jury
to determine being whether the plaintiff was entitled to
recover because he had not received from the defendant
his wages to ,the end of the voyage and the expense for
his maintenance and cure for a reasonable time thereafter ....

"Has Congress changed the sifuation by section 20 of
the Seamen's Act [c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, 11851 as the
plaintiff contends? He argues that the act makes the
master a fellow servant of the seaman and therefore that
Congress intended to make the relation between the
seaman- and all the officers throughout the same as at
common law. But the Supreme Court, in the case of
The Osceola, sutpra, while reserving 'the-question whether
the -master and seaman were fellow servants, held that
it made no difference whatever in respect to the liability of the shipowners for an improvident order of
the master which resulted in personal injuries to the
seaman.
"It follows that whether the master and-seaman are
fellow servants or not is quite immaterial in the case of a
suit for injuries resulting from an improvident order of
the master. For this reason the court was light in directing a verdict for the defendant and the judgment is
affirmed."
In The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175, a libel *inrem to
recover damages for personal injuries to a seaman while
on board and alleged to have resulted from the master's
negligence, speaking through Mr. Justice Brown we
held:
"1. That the vessel and her owners are liable, in case
a seaman falls sick, or is wounded, in the service of the
ship, to the extent of his maintenance and cure, and to his
wages, at least so long as the voyage is continued.
"2. That the vessel and her-owner are both by English
and American law, liable to an indemnity for injuri s

CHELENTIS n LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.

372.

Opinion of the Court.

received by seamen in consequence of the unseaworthiness
of the ship,'or a failure to supply and keep in order the
proper 'appliances appurtenant to the ship. Scarff v.
Metcalf, 107 N. Y. 211.
"3. That all the members of the crew, except perhaps
the master, are, as between themselves, fellow servants,
and hence seamen cannot recover for injuries sustained
through the negligence;_ of another member of the
crew beyond the expense of their maintenance and
cure.
"4. That the seaman is -not allowed to recover an
indemnity for the negligence of the master, or any member
of the crew, but is entitled to maintenance and cure,
whether the injuries were received by negligence or
accident.".
After reference to Article 1, § 8, and Article 3, § 2, of
the Constitution, we declared in Soutlern Pacific Co. v.
Yensen, 244 U. S. 205, 215, 216: "Considering our former
opinions, it must now be accepted as settled doctrine that
in consequence of these provisions Congress has paramount power to fix and determine the maritime law
which shall prevail throughout the country.
And further, that in the absence of some controlling
statute the general maritime law as accepted by the
federal courts constitutes part of our national law applicable to matters within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction." Concerning extent to which the general
maritime law may be changed, modified or affected by
state legislation this was said: "No such legislation is
valid if it contravenes the essential purpose expressed
by aA act of Congress or works material prejudice to
the characteristic features of the general maritime law
or interferes with the proper harmony. and uniformity
of that law in its international and interstate relations.
This limitation, at the least, is essential to the effective
operation of the fundamental purposes for which such

382

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion ol the Court.

247 U. S.

a- was incorporated into, our national laws. by ,the
Constitution itself. These purposes' - are forcefully indicated in the foregoing quotatons from The Lottawanna
(21 Wall. 558, 575). Among such quotati4 is'the
following: "One, thing, howeveris unq estionable; the
Constitution mUst have referi eL to a system of law
coextensive with, and operating dniforrily in, the whole
country. It certainly could not h'ave been the intention
to place the rules and limits of maritime law uinder the
disposal and regulation of the several States, as that
would haye defeated the uniformilty and'donsistency at
which, the Constitution aimed, on -a subjects of a coinmercial character affecting the 'intercourse of -the States
with each other or with foreign states."
The work about which petitioner was engaged is Minatime -in its nature;' his -employment was- a maritime contract; the injuries received- were likewise maritime and
the parties' rights and liabilities were matters clearly
within the admiralty jurisdiction: Atilantic Tranporta-'
iion Co. v. Imbro-vek, 234 U. S.- 52, 59, 60. And unless
in some way there was imposed upon the owners a liability different from that- prescribed by maritime' law,
petitioner could properly demand only wages, imainte-.
nance and cure. Under the doctrine approved in Southern
Pacific Co. v. Jensen., no State has power to abolish the
well recognized maritime rule concerning measure of
recovery and substitute therefor the full indemnity rule
of the common law. Such a substitution would distinc ly
and definitely change o r , add to the settled na-ritime law;
and it would be destructive of the "tunformity and*consistency at, which .the Constitution aimed on all subjects of a commercial -character affecting'the intercourse of the States with each iother or with foreign
states."
Two acts of Congresi are relied upon, and it is said that
under each petitioner has the right to recover full indem-

CHELENTIS v. LUCKENBACH S. 8. CO.
372.

Opinion of the Court.

nity according to the common law. They are: (1) Section 9, Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 76, 77, whereby District Courts of the United States were given exclusive
original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, "saving to suitors, in all cases, the
right of a common law remedy, where the common law is
competent to give it" (Judicial Code, §§ 24, 256); and
(2) section 20 of Act to Promote the Welfare of American
Seamen, approved March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164i
1185, which provides-" That in any suit to recover
damages for any injury sustained on board vessel or in
its- service seamen having command shall not be
held to be fellow-servants with those under their authority."
The precise effect of the quoted clause of the original
Judiciary Act has not been delimited by this court and
different views have been entertained concerning it.. In
Southtern Pacific Co. v. Jensen we definitely ruled that it
gave no"authority to the several States to enact legislation
which would work ','material prejudice to the character-'
istic features of the general maritime law or interfere with
the proper harmony and uniformity of that law in its
international and interstate relations." In The Moses
Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 431, we said: "That clause only
saves to suitors 'the-right of a common-law remedy, where
the common law is competent to give it.' It is not a remedy in the common-law courts which is saved, but a
common-law remedy. A proceeding in rem, as used in the
admiraty courts, is not a remedy afforded by the common
law; it is a proceeding under the civil law." And -in
Knapp, Stout & Co. v. McCaifrey, 17-7 U. S. 638,.644, 648:
"Some of the cases already "ited recognize the distinction between, a common law action and a common law
remedy. Thus in The Moses Taylor, . ., . it is said
6f the saving clause of the Judiciary Act: "It is not a
remedy in the common law courts which is saved, but a

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

common law, remedy.'
"If the suit be!*in fersonam
against an individual defendant,, with an auxiliaixr attachment against a particular thing, or-against the property
of the defendant in general, it is essentially a proceeding
according to the course of the common law, and within
the saving clause of the statute

.

.

of a common

law remedy. The suit in this case being one in equity to
enforce a common law remedy, the state courts were
correct in assuming jurisdiction."
The distinction between rights and remedies is fundamental. A right is a well founded or acknowledged claim;
a remedy is the means employed to enforce a right or
redress an injury. Bouvier's Law Dictionary. Plainly,
we think, under the saving clause a right sanctioned by
the maritime law may be enforced through any appropriate remedy recognized at common law; but we find
nothing therein which reveals an fntention to give the
complaining party an election to deterniine whether the
defendant's liability shall be measured by common-law
standards rather than those of the maritime law. Under
the circumstances here presented, without regard to the
court where he might ask relief, petitioner's rights were
those recognized by the law of the sea.
Section 20 of the Seamen's Act declares "seamen having command shall not be held to be fellow-servants withthose under their authority," Ad. full effect must be
given this whenever the ielatW~nship between such parties
becomes important. But the/maritime law imposes upon
a shipowner liability to a member of the 'rew injured at
sea by reason of another member's negligence without
regard to their relationship; it was of -no consequence
therefore to petitioner whether or not the alleged negligent
order came from a-fellow servant; the-statute is irrelevant.
The language of the section discloses no intention to
impose upon shipowners the same measure, of liability for
injuries suffered by the crew while at sea as the common

