UNITED STATES v. FERGUSON.165.

Syllabus.

from all sources." There is no discrimination. At most,
exportation isaffected only indirectly and remotely. The'
tax is levied after exportation is completed, after all expenses are paid ind losses adjusted, and after the recipient
of the income is free to use it as he chooses. Thus what.
is taxed-the net income-is as far removed froni exportation as are articles 'intended for export before the
exportation begins. If articles manufactured and intended for export are subject to taxation under general
laws up to the time they: re put in course of exportation,
as we have seen they are, the conclusion is unavoidable
that the net income from the venture when completed,
that is to say, after the exportation and sale are fully consummated, is likewise subject -to taxation under generalaws. In that respect the status of the income is not
different from that of the exported articles prior to the
exportation.
For these reasons we hold that the objection urged
against the tax is not well grounded.

Judgment a.ffrmed.

UNITED STATES

t.

FERGUSON ET AL.-

APPEAL FROM THE -CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 238. Submitted May 1, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
For the purpose of determining the quantum of Indian blood possessed
by members of the Five Civilized Tribes, and therein their capacity
to alienate allotted lands, the rolls of citizenship. approved by the
Secretary of the Interior are conclusive. Acts of April 26, 1906, c.
1876, 34 Stat. 137; May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat 312.

In this case the Indian was enrolled as a Seminole, "blood At" his

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

father was enrolled as a full-blood Creek. Held, that oral testimony
to prove that his mother, not enrolled, was a full-blood Seminole
was properly excluded.
225 Fed. Rep. 974, affirmed.

THo case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States.
Mr. Harry H. Rogers, Mr. Joseph L. Hull and Mr.
Nathan A. Gibson for appellees.
MR. JusnrcE VAN DEVAwR delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit to cancel certain conveyances of allotted
Indian lands made by the heir of the deceased allottee.
In the District Court there was a decree for the defendants,
which was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 225
Fed. Rep. 974.
The lands formerly belonged to the Creek tribe and
were allotted and patented to Kochokney, an enrolled
member of that tribe, as his part or share of the tribal
domain. . He died and Yekcha, as sole heir, succeeded to
the title. A considerable time thereafter Yekcha made
the conveyances sought to be canceled. Under the Act
of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, § 22, 34 Stat. 137, 145, dealing
with restrictions on the alienation of Creek and other allotments, he was free to make the conveyances if he was not
a full-blood Indian. But if he was a*full-blood the conveyances were void because made in violation of applicable restrictions. .How the question whether he was or
was not a full-blood should be deternrined-whether by
reference to the rolls of, citizensip or otherwise-is the
matter in controversr.
The legislation providing for the allotment of the lands

UNITED STATES i. FERGUSON.
175.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Five Civilized Tribes, of which the Creek tribe was
one, required the commission in charge of that work to
make rolls of the citizens or members of each tribe, such
rolls to be "descriptive of the persons thereon," and declared that the rolls, when approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, should be "the final rolls of citizenship."
Acts June 28, 1898, c. 517, §21, 30 Stat. 495, 503; June 2,
1900, c. 610, 31 Stat. 250; March 1, 1901, c. 676, §§ 28 and
29, 31 Stat. 861, 870; June 30, 1902, c. 1323, §§ 7-9, 32
Stat. 500, 501. The roll 2 were made and approved by
the Secretary, a statement of the age, sex, and quantum.
of Indian blood of each member being included in the
descriptive matter thereon. The Act of April 26, 1906,
supra, besides making the presence or absence of restrictions on the alienation of allotments dependent on
the quantum of Indian blood possessed by the allottee or
heir, declared that "the quantum of Indian blood possessed by any member of said tribes shall be determined
by the rolls of citizens of said tribes approved by the
Secretary of the Interior." -The Act of June 21, 1906, c.
3504, 34 Stat. 325, 340, directed that a printed and bound
copy of the approved rolls be deposited "in the office of
the recorder in each of the recording districts for public
inspection." Printed copies were so deposited.
While Kochokney, the father, was a member of the
Creek tribe, Yekcha, the son, was a member of the
Seminole tribe. Yekcha's enrollment as shown on the
approved roll was as follows:
Seminole Roll. Indian by Blood.
"No. 1278-- Name, Yekcha, Marche; age 30; sex M.;
blood . Tribal enrollment: Year, 1897; band, Echo
Emarthoge; No. 1; census card No. 380."
At the trial counsel for the plaintiff, after calling attention to the fact, which was admitted, that the father
was enrolled as a full-blood Creek, sought to show by

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

oral testimony that the mother, whose name did not ap.pear on any of the approved rolls, was a full-blood Seminole; but the court was of opinion that the quantum of
Indian blood possessed by Yekcha must be determined by
the approved roll, and so rejected the testimony. Then,
interpreting the roll as meaning that he was'an Indian of
the half-blood, the court held that under -theAct of April
26, 1906, he was free to make the conveyances:
We think the court rightly excluded the oral testimony
and gave controlling effect to the approved roll. When
Congress came to make a difference between full-blood
and mixed-blood Indians,, by subjecting the former to
restrictions not applied to the latter, it evidently deemed.
it better for the .Indians and all concerned that there be
some fixed, easily accessible and reasonably reliable evidential standard by which to determine, for the purpose
of the matter then in hand, who were of the full-blood and
who of the mixed-blood. Congress had power to deal with
the subject, and from among the standards which might
have been prescribed it selected the rolls made at its direction by the commission charged with making- the
allotments. Not improbably it -was thought that the
rolls, even if not altogether free from mistake and error,
woulol be quite as reliable as oral testimony and would
have the advantage of being both easily accessible and
enduring. But, passing the reason for it, Congress directed that the quantum of Indian blood "be determined"
by the approved rolls, and it did this in a connection which
leaves no doubt of its purpose to give controlling effect to
the rolls. Emphasis was given to this purpose in the Act
of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, where, in again dealing with restrictions on the alienation of allotments, it
was provided that the approved rolls "shall be conclusive
evidence as to the quantum of Indian blood-of any enrolled citizen or freedman of said tribes and of no other
persons to determine questions arising under this Act."

