McGINIS v. CALIFORNIA.
Syllabus.

32.

the simple declaration by the court of its readiness to
resort to either or both of these effective remedies, if the
conduct of the parties or the exigencies of the situation
should require it, served in that case, as it would in this,
to open the way for bringing the powerful interests involved into obedience to the law.
Convinced as I am, by a most careful study of this record, that the United Shoe Machinery Company is a combination in restraint of interstate trade and commerce;
that it was designed to and actually does monopolize a
large part of that trade and commerce, and that it therefore is a continuing violation -of both §§ 1 and 2 of the
Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, I am obliged to dissent
from the opinion and judgment of the court.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR.
PiTNEy concur in this dissent.

JUSTICE

McGINIS ET AL. v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF'
CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF IMPERIAL COUNTY,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 133.

Argued Anril 26. 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.

Upon the question whether opium was in transit through California
to Mexico, or was in possession of defendauts in violation of the
state law, evidence that the purpose of a customn officer in weighing
it at the boundary with the assistance of one of the defendants was
to make out papers necessary for the exportation, and that defendants had authority from the Treasury Department to export,
was competent in a prosecution for unlawful possession, and its
exclusion by the state cdurt denied a federal right of the defendants
arising under the commerce clause.
Reversed.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Milliam Sea, Jr., with whom Mr. Frederick S. Tyler
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James M. Oliver, with whom Mr. Thomas E. Haven
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JuSTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is here to review a judgment of the Superior
Court modifying and affirming as modified a judgment
pronounced against plaintiffs in error (whom we shall call
defendants) after a verdict of a*jury finding them guilty
of violating a law of the State entitled "An Act to regulate the sale and use of poisons in the State of California and providing a penalty for the violation thereof."
[Stats. 1913, c. 342, p. 692.]
The action was commenced by filing a verified complaint in a justice's court of the county charging them
with having in their possession at Calexico in that
county a preparation of opium containing more than
two grains of opium to the fluid ounce, they, the defendants, not being within any of the exceptions of the statute.
Their trial was by jury which returned a verdict of
guilty against them, and, after motion for new trial made
upon the rulings hereinafter stated and denied, judgment was entered fining each of them in the sum of $300,
the imprisonment to be suspended during good be-havior if the fine be paid. It was further adjudged that
until the fine be paid each should be imprisoned in the
county jail one day for each dollar of the fine not exceeding 180 days.
On appeal to the Superior Court of the county the
judgment was reversed as to imprisonment until the fine

McGINIS v. CALIFORNIA.
91.

Opinion of the Court.

be paid; in all else affirmed. This writ of error was then
allowed by the presiding judge.
The case is in narrow compass. The charge was, as we
have seen, that the defendants had opium in their possession in violation of the statute of the State. The defense was, among others, that the opium was in transit
from St. Louis, Missouri, to Mexicali, Mexico. The latter
town and Calexico are really but one, having, however,
different names and being in different countries-the
international boundary being a street.
Necessarily the United States custom house is in
Calexico, and to the practical singleness of the towns is
added the fact that Wells, Fargo & Company, the carrier
of the drug from St. Louis, has its terminal in Calexico
and has the same office that the custom house broker has,
whose relations with defendants were the subject of testimony and contention.
It is clear, however, that the drug was shipped from
St. Louis and could have been carried by Wells, Fargo &
Conipany no farther than Calexico and that the consignees could have paid-indeed, had to pay, and did
pay-the express charges at that place, and could have
received the drug upon payment. It is in dispute whether
they did or whether one McCoy, the custom house broker,
received it and weighed it, assisted by Young. The
weighing, it was testified, was made necessary by the requirement of the law of Mexico. It was therefore a dispute of fact or inference in the case whether Young received the drug or McCoy did as a customs officer and
that Young did no more than assist in the preparation
of the shipment to Mexico, not participating in the possession.
In explanation of the situation Young testified that he
did not remove the box (it was quite large and weighed,
with contents, 72 pounds and, we may say in passing,
was valued at $960.00) or take possession of it, arrange-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court,

247 U. S.

inents having been made with McCoy to have he box
taken to Mexicali, he, McCoy, being-a common carrier.
And he testified that McCoy weighed its contents. He
was then asked the _question if he knew why McCoy
weighed the contents. The question was objected to as
immaterial on the ground that it made no difference what
the purpose of weighing the contents was. The objection
was sustained and counsel for Young replied, "We want
to show that Mr. McCoy was to makdout the American and
Mexican papers for the exportation of the box to McGinis
and Young at Mexicali." The question was then put
whether McGinis and Young had authority to export the
opium that was seized. Again the attorney for the State
objected, saying, "It can have no bearing in this case.
It is only a question of possession." The objection was
sustained, to which it was replied by defendants' attorney,
"If the court will not permit us to put in our defense as to
having permission and authority to export the opium,
cocaine and morphine mentioned in interstate and'foreign
commerce under the regulations of the Treasury Department -)f the United States, Le defendants will rest."
A series of instructions were asked by defendants to be
given -which expressed the supremacy of Congress over
interstate and foreign commerce and that therefore, even
if defendants had control of the opium, if it was in transit
or being transported from the United States to Mexico
through a chain of carriers, then the defendants did not
have possession of the opium in violation of the laws of the
State, and that it was the duty of the jury to acquit them.
The instructions were refused.
It is clear, therefore, that defendants asserted rights
under the commerce clause of the Constitution and that.
the evidence ruled out as immaterial was offered to sustain
them. It was certainly pertinent and the circumstances
of the case and the evidence made it competent. In other
words, there was a dispute as to whether defendants had

MWGINIS r. CALIFORNIA.
01.

Counsel for Parties.

taken possession of the opium-of which the jury were
to be the judges, not the court-and whether the drug was
in transit; and the conditions of transit were elements to
be considered.
The judgment of the Superior Court is reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion..

McGINIS ET AL. v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF IMPERIAL COUNTY,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 134.

Argued April 26, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.

In a prosecution for having cocaine in possession in violation of a
state law, it is a defense that the drug was in transit through the
State to an adjacent foreign country; and defendants are entitled
to prove such fact in the state court and therein to explain their
relations to the shipment at the international boundary where
they are charged with having taken the unlawful possession. McGinis v. California,ante, 91.
Error in excluding such evidence held, in the circumstances of this
case, not to have been made harmless by proof that more of the
drug was added at the international boundary, where the whole
prosecution was based upon the original shipment and such proof
involved only one of the defendants, and cross-examination upon it
was not allowed, and the source of the added drug was not shown.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Sea, Jr., with whom Mr. FrederickS. Tyler
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James M. Oliver, with whom Mr. Thomas B. Haven
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Coirt.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA
court.

247 U. S.

'delivered the opinion of the

This case was submitted with No. 133, ank, 91.
As in the latter case plaintiffs in error, whom we shall
call defendants, were charged in a justice's court of
Imperial County with having cocaine in their possession
in a quailtity forbidden by the statute of the State regulating the sale and use of poisons. After trial and verdict
of guilty, there was judgment exactly the same as in No.
133, which judgment, after motion for new trial made and
denied, and upon appeal to the. Superior Court of the
county, was modified, and as modified affirmed as in that.dase.
The drug was shipped from St. Louis in the same box
as the opium in case No. 133. The testimony in this case,
however, as to its being in transit to Mexico is somewhat fuller. In addition to the exclusion of such testimony the defendants were prevented from showing permission from the Treasury Department to export a
quantity of cocaine to Mexico. Such permission and the
purpose of weighing the contents of the box were decided
to be immaterial, possession alone being determinative

of guilt.
We think the rulings were error. But it is said that the
error was without detriment to defendants; that the testimony showed that there were only 100 ounces of cocaine
in the original package from St. Louis and that 85 ounces
were added in the repacking. However, it is not shown
from whence it came, and the trial of the case and the submission of it were based on the shipment from St. Louis.
The judgment of the Superior Court was rendered in both
actions and made no distinction between them. And, besides, McGinis was not shown to have had any connection
with the 85 ounces, and we may remark that cross-examination as to the fact was, on the objection of the

