ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE
Interlocutory Decree.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.
INTERLOCUTORY DECREE.
No. 4.

Oxial.

IN EQUITY.

Entered June 10, 1918.

Defining the principles determining the boundary between Arkansas
and Tennessee in accorknce with the previous opinion and decisioi,-246 U. S. 158, and ap]ointing a commission, duly empowered, to
locate and designate th&line, with instructions to report, etc.

Tmg cause came m to be heard at this '?erm and was
argued by counsel; gnd thereupon and on consideration

thereof, it was Ordered, Adjudged and Decreed as follows, viz:
1. The true boundary line between the States of
Arkansas and Tennessee, aside from the question of the
avulsion of 1876, hereinafter mentioned, is the middle of
the main channel of navigation of the ,Mississippi river
as it eisted at the Treaty of Peace concluded between
the United States and Great Britain in 1783, subject to
such changes as have occurred since that time through
natural-and gradual processes.
2. By the avulsion of March 7, 1876, which resulted
in the formation of a new channel known as the Centennial Cut-off, the boundary line between said States was
unaffected, and remained in the middle of the former
main channel of navigation as above defined.
3. The boundary line between the said States should
now be located along that portion of the bed of said rivev
that was left dry as the result of said avulsion, according
to the middle of the main navigable channel as it existed
at the time the current'ceased to flow therein as the result
of said avulsion.
4. A commission consisting of (3. B. Bailey, of Wynne,

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Interlocutory Decree.

247 U. S.

Arkansas, Horace Vandeventer, of Knoxville, Tennessee,
and Charles A. Baiton, of Memphis, Tennessee, competent persons, -is here and now named by the court, upon
the suggestion of counsel, to run, locate, and designate
the boundary line between said States along that portion
of the bed of said river that was left dry as the result- of
said avulsion, in accordance with the above principles:
Commencing at the upper end of the abandoned portion
of the river bed at or about the beginning, or head of Said
Centennial Cut-off, and thence following along the
middle of the former main channel of navigation: by its
several courses and windings to the lower end of the
abhandoned portiion of Said river bed at or about the terminus or outlet-of said.Centennial Cut-off.
5. In-:the event the: said Commission cannot now
locate with reasonable certainty'the line of the river as
it' then -Tan, that is, at or immediately before the avulsion
of 1876, it- shall- report the nature and eitent of the erosions and accretions that occurred in the old channel
prior to its abandonment by the current as the result of
said Avulsion, and in-said report, if necessary to be made
in obedience to this paragraph of the decree, said Commission shall give its findings of fact and the evidence on
.... . ... .
*wh ich th e sam e ar e bAsed .
6. Before entering upon the discharge of -their duties,
each of said commissioners shall be duly sworn to perform
faithfully, impartially, and without prejudice or bias the
duties herein imposed;.said oaths to be taken before the
Clerk of this. court, or zbefore the Clerk of any District
Court of the United States, or before an officer authorized
'by law to administer an oath in the State of Arkansas or
of Tennessee, and 'returned with their report that said
Commission is authorized and empowered to make examination of the territory in question, and to adopt all
'jordinary and legitinate methods in the ascertainment
of the true location of said boundary line; to summon

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
461.

463.

-Interlocutory Decree.

witnesses and take evidence under oath; to compel the
attendance of witnesses and require them to testify; to
call for and require the production of- papers and other
documentary evidence-' such evidence, however, to be
taken upon notice to the parties, with permission to
attend by counsel and cross-examine the witnesses; and
all evidence taken and all exceptions thereto and rulings
thereon shall be preserved and certified and returned with
the report of said conmnissioners; and said commissiopers
are also at liberty to refer to and consult the printed record
in' the cause and the opinion of this court delivered on
March 4, 1918, and to- do all other matters necessary to
enable them to discharge their duties and attain the end
to be accomplished conformably to this decree:
7. It. is further ordered that should any vacancy or
vacancies occur in said board of commissioners by reason
of death, refusal to act, or inability to perform the'duties
required by this decree, the Chief Justice of this court is
hereby authorized and empowered to appoint another
commissioner or commissioners to supply such vacancy
or vacancies, the Chief Justice acting upon such in'formation in the premises as may be satisfactory to
him..
8. It is further ordered that said commissioners do
proceed with all convenient dispatch to discharge their
duties conformably to this decree, and they are authorized, if they deem it necessary, to request the coperationand assistance of the state authorities of Arkansas and
Tennessee, or either of those States, in the performance
of the duties hereby imposed.
9. It is further ordered that the Clerk of this court
shall forward at once to the Governor of each of said
States of Arkansas and Tennessee and to each of the
commissioners hereby appointed a copy of-this decree and
of the opinion of this court delivered herein March 4,
1918, duly authenticated.

