OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

CARNEY v. CHAPMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 2$1.

Argued May 1, 1918-Decided May 20, 1918.

The construction of an act of Congress may be involved by impiication so as to present a federal question.
Fvidence that, notwithstanding a tribal law of 1876 directing that marriages be solemnized by judge or preacher, it was customary among
the Cickasaws to disregard such ceremonies, with evidence that
two Indians held themselves out as man and wife and were reputed
married, held enough to warrant a finding of marriage contracted
under the tribal customs, within the meaning of the Act of Congress
of May 2,1890, ratifying marriages theretofore dntracted under the
laws or tribal customs of Indian nations of the Indian Territory.
158 Pac. Rep. 1125, affirmed.

Tii case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Kirby Fitzpatrick for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. C. Duncan for defendants in error.
MLR. JUSTICE Ho.

s delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by the defendant in error J. C. Chapman
to recover possession of certain land and to have his title
quieted against the claims of Lottie Carney, the plaintiff
in error, and of the Albersons, the other defendants in
error. The right of possession is immaterial now, but there
was a jndgment quieting. the title of the plaintiff against
the above named parties which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State and in which error is alleged by
Lottie Carney. The land was allotted to John Alberson,
a Chickasaw Indian, who was averred by the plaintiff to*

CARNEY r. CHAPMAN.

102.

Opinion of the Court.

be the lawful son of Charles Puller, a Chickasaw, and
Louisa James, an Indian woman. She died and later
Alberson died leaving Puller his sole heir, if Puller was
married as alleged. Puller conveyed to the plaintiff. The
defendants denied the marriage and if they were right
Lottie Carney is Alberson's heir.
If any federal question is presented in the case it arises
under the Act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, ยง 38, 26
Stat. 81, 98, by which all marriages theretofore "contracted under the laws or tribal customs of any Indian
nation" located in the Indian Territory are declared valid.
The date of the supposed marriage was in 1887 and therefore if it complied with the terms of the act it was validated if not valid before. The plaintiff in error, after
asking instructions as to what constituted a common law
marriage that were given in substance, asked for another
that a common law marriage was not recognized by the
Chickasaws and that a marriage of Chickasaws without a
compliance with their laws was void. Taking all the requests for rulings and the rulings together we are inclined
to agree with the Court below that common law marriage
and marriage under the customs of the tribe were used as
equivalent phrases and to assume in favor of the plaintiff
in error that the request means that a marriage of Chickasaws although in accord with their customs was invalid
under a Chickasaw Act of October 12, 1876, unless solemnized by a judge or 6rdained preacher of the Gospel. This
assumption would seem to carry with it the implication
that the act of Congress did not validate a Iharriage in accordance with still prevailing custom if no judge or
preacher added his sanction, and so to ask a construction
of that act that, again by implication, was refused.
In this somewhat remote way a federal question is
opened, but it cannot profit the plaintiff .in error. There
was some evidence that Charles Puller and Louisa James
held themselves out as man and wife and were reputed

1V4

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

married. There was evidence also that it was customary
to disregard solemnization before a judge or preacher.
It would bd going somewhat far to construe the Chickasaw statute as purporting to invalidate marriages not
so solemnized. The act of Congress made valid marriages
under either custom or law. Whatever may be the requisites to satisfy that act the above mentioned evidence
warranted a finding that they had been complied with, as
is expressly provided by statute for the case of a marriage
of a white man with an Indian woman. Act of August 9,
1888, c. 818, ยง3,25 Stat. 392. The reason for the rule is
stronger here.
Judgment affirmed.

