430

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

287 U.S.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. ET AL. v. MARVEL RARE
METALS CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 57. Argued November 17, 1932.--Peided December 12, 1932.
1. In a suit in the district court for infringement of patents, an order
granting a-motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a counterclaim alleging infringement by plaintiffs of a patent of the defendants and praying for an injunction and an accounting, held an interlocutory order refusing an injunction, and appealable to the Circuit
Court of Appeals under Judicial Code, § 129; U. S. C. Tit. 28,

§227. P. 432.
2. Section 48 of the Judicial Code (U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 227) relates
to venue, and the privilege conferred by it upon defendants in
patent cases, in respect of the places in which suits may be maintained against them, may be waived. P. 434.:
3. In a suit in the district court for infringement of patents, a counterclaim alleging infringement by plaintiffs of a patent of the defendants and praying for an injfincftion and accounting, may be mainfained against the plaintiffs (Equity Rule 30), though it. does not
contain allegations showing- that plaintiffs are inhabitants of, or
committed acts of infringement and have a regular place of business within, the district in which they commenced their suit. Section 48 of the Judicial Code (U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 227) does not
previent. P. 435:
56 F. (2d) 823, affirmed.

CERTi RARI, 286 U. S. 541, to review a judgment which,
upon appeal from an order dismissing a counterclaim in
a suit brought by the petitioners for patent infringement,
denied a motion to dismiss the appeal and reversed the
order.
Mr. Lawrence Bristol, with whom Mr. Charles Neave
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William C. McCoy, with whom Mr. Lloyd L. Evans
was on the brief, for respondents.

GENERAL ELEC. CO. v. MARVEL CO.
430

431

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE BuTLFR delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners, New York corporations having their principal offices in that State, brought this suit in the northern
district of Ohio against defendants, two corporations hav"ingregular and established: places of business in that district and two individuals residing there. The complaint
alleges that the defendants infringed plaintiffs' rights under certain patents relating to the manufacture of hardmetal products by making, using and selling tools and
parts thereof embodying such inventions. The answer
avers that the patenits are invalid and denies infringement,
alleging that all manufacture by defendants has been
under one or more of five patents granted defendant
Gebauer. And the answer sets up a counterclaim against
plaintiffs for the infringement of one of thdse patents and
prays injunction against such infringement and an accounting. But it does not allege that plaintiffs are inhabitants of the district, or that they infringed defendants'
patent and have a regular and established place of business
there. The plaintiffs moved to dismiss the counterclaim
-for want of jurisdiction. The district court granted their
motion. Defendants appealed. Plaintiffs moved to dismiss the appeal on the ground that the dismissal of the
counterclaim does not amount to the refusal of an injunction under § 129, Judicial Code, and was not appealable
under that section. The Circuit Court of Appeals denied
the motion and reversed the order appealed from. 56 F.
(2d) 823.
Plaintiffs insist that the court erred in refusing to dismiss the appeal. Equity Rule 30 declares: "The defendant by his answer shall set out - . . his defense to each
claim asserted itn the bill .
The answer must state in
short and sinple form any counterclaim arising out of the
transaction which is the subject matter of the suit, and

432

3 OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

may, without cross bill, set up any set-off or counterclaim
against the plaintiff which might be the subject of an
independent suit in equity against him, and such set-off
or counterclaim, so set up, shall have the same effect as
a cross suit, so as to enable the court to pronounce a final
decree in the same suit on both the original and the cross
claims." 268 U. S. 709. It is clear that in this suit the
court in a single decree may finally determine the merits of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint and the counterclaim set up in the answer. The order dismissing the

counterclaim is interlocutory. Winters v. Ethell, 132
U. S. 207, 210. Ex parte Railroad Co., 95 U. S. 221, 225.
Ayres v. Carver, 17 How. 591, 595. The general rule is
that review of interlocutory orders must await appeal
from the final decree. But in proceedings for injunctions
and receivers exceptions have been made by § 129, Judicial Code:
"Where, upon a hearing in a district court, or by a
judge thereof in vacation, an injunction is granted, continued, modified, refused, or dissolved by an interlocutory order or decree, or an application to dissolve or modify an injunction is refused, or an interlocutory order or
decree is made appointing a receiver, or refusing an order
to wind up a pending receivership or to take the appropriate steps to accomplish the purposes thereof, such as
directing a sale-or other disposal of property held thereunder, an appeal may be taken from such interlocutory
order or decree to the circuit court of appeals. . . . The
appeal . . . must"be applied for within thirty days from
the entry of such order or decree, and shall take precedence in the appellate court; and the proceedings in other
respects in the district court shall not be stayed during
the pendency of such appeal unless otherwise ordered by
the court, or the appellate court, or a judge thereof .
28 U. S. C., § 227.

GENERAL ELEC. CO. v. MARVEL CO.
430

433

Opinion of the Court.

The reasons suggested by plaintiffs in support of the
contention that the order is not appealable are that there
was no heafing upon any application for an injunction
and that the dismissal of the counterclaim was not the
refusal of an injunction. But by their motion to dismiss,
plaintiffs themselves brought on for hearing the very
question that, among others, would have been presented
to the court upon formal application for an interlocutory
injunction. That is, whether the allegations of the answer
are sufficient to constitute a cause of action for injunction. And the court necessarily decided that upon the
facts alleged in the counterclaim defendants were not
entitled to an injunction. It canot be said, indeed plaintiffs do not claim, that the dismissal did not deny to
defendants the protection of the injunction prayed in
their answer. The ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals
that an injunction has been denied by an interlocutory
order which is reviewable under § 129 is sustained by
reason and supported by the weight of judicial opinion.
Emery v. Central Trust & Safe Deposit Co., 204 Fed. 965,
968. Ward Baking Co. v. Weber Bros., 230 Fed. 142.
HistoricalPub. Co. v. Jones Bros. Pub. Co., 231 Fed. 638,
643. Naivette v. Philad Co., 54 F. (2d) 623. Cf. Banco
Mercantilv: Taggart Coal Co., 276 Fed. 388, 390.* Plaintiffs' motion to dismiss the appeal was rightly denied.
Plaintiffs maintain that the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred in sustaining the counterclaim.
They call attention to Equity Rule 30 and cite § 48'
of the-Judicial Code: "In suits brought for the infringement of letters patent the district courts . . . shall have
jurisdiction, in law or in equity, in the district of which
the defendant is an inhabitant, or in any district in which
Contra: Radio Corp. v. J. H. Bunnell & Co., 298 Fed. 62. Allied
Metal, Stamping Co. v. Standard Electric Equipment Corp., 55 F.
(2d) 221.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

the defendant ... shall have committed acts of infringem'ent and have a regular and established place of business.
." 28 U. S. C., § 109. They argue that a counterclaim
for patent infringement cannot be maintained over plaintiffs' objection if it does not contain allegations showing
that plaintiffs are inhabitants of or committed acts of
infringement and have a regular place of business within
the district in which they commenced their suit. And
they insist that to construe the rule more broadly would
make it repugnant to the statute.
Rule 30 is without force as against conflicting statutory
provisions. Washington-Southern Co. v. Baltimore Co.,
263 U. S. 629. It deals with counterclaims of two classes.
The first in6ludes every counterclaim arising out of the
transaction which is the subject matter of the suit and
which must be set up in t]he answer. The second class
includes counterclaims not so arising but which might be
the subject of an independent suit in equity and which
may but need not be so set up. American Mills Co. v.
American Surety Co., 260 U. S. 360, 364. We may assume
that the counterclaim in question, does not arise out of
the subject matter of plaintiffs' suit. But, unless § 48
prevents, it may be set up in the answer. Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. v. National E. S. Co., 206 Fed. 295.
Electric Boat Co. v. Lake Torpedo Boat Co., 215 Fed. 377.
United States ExpansionBolt Co. v. Kroncke Co., 216 Fed.
186; 234 Fed. 868. Buffalo Specialty Co. v. Vancleef, 217
Fed. 91. Champion Spark Plug Co. v. Champion Ignition
Co., 247 Fed. 200. -Victor Talking Mach. Co. v. Brunswik-Balke-Collender Co., 279 Fed. 758."
Section 24 (7) of the Judicial Code is the source from
which district courts derive jurisdiction of cases arising
under the patent laws. Under that clause and until the
enactment of § 48 a suit for infringement might have been
,maintained in any -district in which jurisdiction of defendant could be obtained. In re Hohorst, 150 U. S. 653,

SORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
430

435

Syllabus.

661. And see In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S.
221-230. Section 48 relates to venue. It confers upon
defendants in patent cases a privilege in respect of the
places in which suits may be maintained against them.
And that privilege may be waived. Lee v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 653. Gulf Smokeless Coal Co. v.
Sutton, Steele & Steele, 35 F. (2d) 433, 438. The section
does not, as to counterclaims, purport to modify the rule,
prevailing prior to its enactment. The setting up of a
counterclaim against one. already in d court of his own
choosing is very different, in respect to venue, from hailing
him into that court. Section 48, taken according to the
meaning ordinarily given to the words used, applies only
to the latter, and we find no Warrant for a construction
thai would make it include the former. This Court has
recently declared that one who sues in a federal court of
equity to enjoin the infringement of his patent, thereby
submits hirhself to the jurisdiction of the court with respect to all the issues of the case, including those pertaining to a counterclaim praying that he be restrained from
infringing a patent of the defendant. Leman v. KrentlerArnold Co., 284 U. S. 448, 451. And that rule applies
here.
Affirmed.
S.ORRELLS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 177. Argued November 8, 1932.-Decided December 19, 1932.

1. Where application of a penal statute according to its literal meaning would produce results contrary to the plain purpose and policy
of the enactment, and flagrantly unjust, another construction should
be adopted if possible. P. 446.
2. The National Prohibition Act, though denouncing generally as

criminal the sale of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes, was

