DETROIT BRIDGE CO. v. TAX BOARD
291

295

Syllabus.

owner is an application of the well-established rule that
when one puts his employee at the disposal and under the
*direction of another for the performance of service for the
latter, such employee while so engaged acts directly for
and is to be deemed the employee of the latter and not of
the former. Denton v. Yazoo & M. V. R. Co., 284 U. S.,
305, 308. It would be unconscionable for petitioner upon
occurrence of a mishap to repudiate the agreement upon
which it obtained the service.
The decree under consideration is not in conflict with
the decisions of this court cited by petitioner, The Steamer
Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167, and Compaida de Navegacio v.
Ins. Co., 277 U. S. 66. Neither involved an agreemeht
similar to the provisions of the pilotage clause on which
this case turns.
Decree affirmed.
DETROIT INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO. v. CORPORATION TAX APPEAL BOARD OF MICHIGAN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN'.

No. 51. Argued November 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.
1. One who challenges the constitutionality of a statute has the
'burden of establishing the facts on which he asserts its invalidity.
P. 297.
2. The question whether the operation bf a toll bridge between a
State of this country and Canada is foreign commerce, so that a
corporation engaged therein may not be subjected to a state excise
on the right to do business, will not be considered where the corporation failed to establish that it has no power to carry on
business that is not within the protection of the commerce clause.
P. 297.
257 Mich. 52; 240 N. W. 68, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment sustaining a determination of

a corporation privilege tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

-

287 U.S.

Mr. Victor W. Klein, with whom Messrs. Alfred A.
Cook and Thomas G. Long were on the brief, for appellant.
Mrs. Alice E. Alexander, with whom Mr. Paul W. Voorhies, Attorney General of Michigan, was on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUsncE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant is a Michigan corporation engaged in operating the international bridge spanning the river between
Detroit and Sandwich, Ontario. Acting under Act No.
85 'of 1921, as amended by Act No. 175 of 1929, the
secretary of state calculated, and appellee confirmed his
determinations, that appellant was liable for a license fee
tax of $3,000 for 1929 and $2,935.95 for. 1930. Appellant
6btained a review in the state supreme court and there
maintained, as it still insists, that by its articles of- association its powers are limited to constructing, owning,
nfaintaining k-nd operating the bridge for the.use of traffic
and to taking tolls therefor, that in 1930 it was engaged
exclusively in foreign commerce and that the statute, construed to impose a fee for the privilege of doing that business, violates the commerce clause. The bridge was under
construction during a part of 1929, and no question is
here presented as to the fee for that year. The court overruled appellant's contention and, except as to an item
not now material, entered judgment affirming the deter.mination of the fees. 257 Mich. 52; 240 N. W. 68.
The sole question is whether as construed the state law
violates the commerce clause.
The statute, ยง 4, declares that every corporation, excepting certain companies that need not be named, organized under the laws of the State "shall . . . for the
privilege of exercising its franchise and of transacting its

DETROIT BRIDGE CO. v. TAX BOARD.
295

297

Opinion of the Court.

business within this state; piy to the secretary of state an
annual fee'of two and one-half mills upon each dollar of
its paid-up capital and surplus, but such privilege fee
shall in no case be less than ten dollars nor .more than
fifty thousand dollars.- It is the intent of this section to
impose the tai herein provided for upon every corpbration,
foreign or domestic, having the privileges of exercising
corporate franchises within this state,- irrespective -of
whether any such corporation chooses to actually exercise
such privilege during any taxable period."
In In re Detroit Properties Corp., (1931) 254 Mich.
523; 236 N. W. 850, the state supreme court held (p. 525):
"The privilege fee is an excise tax, not upon, the right to
be a corporation, but upon the activities of the corporation
in the exercise of its corporate franchise, or, as it is sometimes expressed, upon the franchise 'to do,'. not.upon"the
franchise ' to be.' . ... Actual transaction of business by
a domestic corporation is not a condition of the tax. It is
imposed on the right to transact." And this court follows
that construction. Michigan v. Michigan,Trust Co , 286
U. S. 334, 342.
Appellee insists that to own and operate the bridge
and take tolls for its use does not involve intercourse between Michigan and Ontario and that therefore aplellant
is not engaged in foreign commerce and further maintains
that appellant has power to engage in business other than
the operation of the bridge. We do riot consider whether
appellant is engaged in foreign commerce for we are of
opinion that it has failed to establish that it has no power
to carry on any business that is not within the protection
of the conimerce clause. Aetna, Insurance Co. v. Hyde,
275 U. S. 440, 448.

Appellant has the burden to establish the facts on which
it asserts the invalidity of the statute. Weaver v. Palmer
Bros. Co., 270 U. S. 402, 410. The record contains only

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

a part of the third article of its articles of association:
"The purpose or purposes of this corporation are as follows: To construct, own and/or operate a highway bridge
across the Deitroit River from Detroit, Michigan, to Sandwich, Province of Ontario, Canada, and the approaches
thereto; To maintain and operate such bridge and the
approaches thereto for the use of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, and to charge and collect tolls for such use."
Appellant asserts that its powers are solely limited to
these purposes. But appellee in its brief brings forward
the entire article, containing in its final paragraph a
specification of power that is not limited, incident or
appurtenant to the authority to construct, maintain and
operate the bridge: "This corporation may maintain offices or agencies, conduct its business or any part thereof,
purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, hold, mortgage, convey and assign real or personal property, and do all or any
of the acts herein'set forth, outside of the State of Michigan as well as within said State." It is clear that in
addition to general power to own and operate the bridge
and to do all that is related to that enterprise, appellant
is by the last quoted provision empowered, as contended
by appellee, to carry on the business of buying and selling real and personal property within the State of Michigan and elsewhere.
Indeed, appellant did not at first claim that its powers
and activities are limited to foreign commerce. On the
contrary it sent to the secretary of state with its annual
report- of 1929 the prescribed minimum fee of $10 and
with that of 1930 the sum of $145.92. It did not then
construe the Act as not applicable to any business within
the scope of its authorization under its articles and the
laws of the State, but merely that it was not liable for
as much as the state taxing authorities laid against it.
Judgment affirmed.

