488

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

construction can a verdict that nominal loss has resulted
from a breach be turned into a verdict that there had been
no breach at all. On the face of the record, the jury found
there was a wrong, and then, in contravention of instructions, refused, either through misunderstanding or through
wilfulness, to assess the damages ensuing.
Justice is not promoted in its orderly administration
when such conduct is condoned.

WABASH VALLEY ELECTRIC CO. v. YOUNG ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOVTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 128. Argued December 7, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
L' In fixing rates of a public utility for part of 'the territory
served, conditions may be such as to require or permit that the
property used and useful in serving the smaller area be treated as
* the rate base rather than the entire plant serving the whole territory. P. 497.
2. An electrical plant, built and operated as a generating and distributing plant for a single municipality, became part of a large system.
.The new owner" ceased to generate current locally and brought in
current over its lines from without. It served many other towns
and cities, and also delivered varying proportions of the entire current borne by its lines to affiliated companies for delivery to their
customers, including many towns and cities within their respective
territories. Held:
(1) That under the Indiana Public Utility Act, the municipality
was properly treated as the unit for determining the rates to be'
charged therein, and that this is consisient with due process.
Pp. 495-498.
(2) The property to be valued i§ that which is used and useful
for supplying current to the municipality, adding thereto the proportionate part of the value of the general distributing system fairly
attributable to the local service, but disregarding local plants in,
other municipalities which aie separate and distinct and bear no
relation to the one in question. P. 499.

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO.,v. YOUNG.
488

489

Argument for Appellant.

(3) The :calculation is of necessity more -or less .approximate,
but must be fair. P. 499.
(4) No allowance for cost of financing need be made in the absence of evidence that such a cost was incurred, or that it necessarily would be incurred in the event of reconstruction. P. 500.'
(5) Rate case expenses of the utility on matters not connected with the iialuation are properly disallowed; and the conclusion of the state commission, the master and the court as to the
proper allowance will not be disturbed when not definitely shown
to be erroneous. P. 500.
3. The fact that an electric power company is in a favorable financial
position through being a subsidiary of a larger one may be taken
into account in determining the rate of return to which it is entitled.
P. 501.
4. What may be an inadequate percentage of return on capital to one
kind of public utility in. its particular circumstances, may be adequate for another kind in different circumstances. United Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234. P. 501.
5. Seven per cent. rate of return is not shown to be confiscatory under
the facts disclosed in this case. P. 502.
1 F. Supp. 6.06, affirmed.

APPEAL 'from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing for want of equity a bill to restrain the
enforcement of rates fixed by the defendant Indiana Commission for electric service in the City of Martinsville.
Mr. John C. Lawyer, with whom Messrs-.-jGeorge A.
Cooke, Francis L. Daily, and Howard S. Young were on
the brief, for appellant.
It is established by undisputed evidence: (1) That appellant's system as a whole is'earning only 4.15% on its.
value; (2) That appellant's rates in the various cities,
towns and communities served by it are uniform for the
same classes of service; and (3) That the rotes fixed by
the Commission for Martinsville amount to approximately a .15% reduction.
The basis of utility rates is the fair value of the property used for the convenience of the public. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 434-5; Smyth v. Ames, 169

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

U. S. 466, 547; McCardle v. IndianapolisWater Co., 272
U. S. 400, 408; Southwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 276, 287.
Confiscation can not be determined by a single rate or
group of rates, but must be judged from the effect on the
entire business done by the utility within the area served.
Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U. S. 19,. 54; State
Public Utilities Comm'n v. Springfield Gas & Elec. Co.,
291 II. 209, 228, 229; Michigan Bell Tel. Co. v. Odell,
45 F. (2d) 180, 181-2; New York Telephone Co. v. Prendergast, 36 F. (2d) 54, 69; United Railways v. West, 280
U. S. 234, 252-253; St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Gill, 156
U. S. 649, 665, 666; The Municipality as a Unit for Utility Valuation, 14 Yale L. J. 912; Puget Sound Traction
Co. v. Reynolds, 244 U. S. 574, 580-581; New York &
Queens Gas Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345, 350-351; N. Y.
ex rel. Gas Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 269 U. S. 244,
248-249; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia,
236 U. S. 605, 608-609; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352; Ames v.. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 64 Fed. 165, 179,
aff'd 169 U. S. 466; Groesbeck v. Duluth, S. S. & A. Ry.
Co., 250 U. S. 607.
The value in question is that of the property actually
used and not of 'what may be considered by some one to
be an efficient substitute. McCardle v. IndianapolisWater
Co., 272 U. S. 400, 417-418.
The right to regulate does not warrant an unreasonable
interference with the right of management or the taking
of the company's property without compensation. -Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Wisconsin?, 238 U. S.. 491, 501.
The evidence shows prudent management about a matter requiring business judgment. The Commission is not
the financihl manager of the corporation and is not empowered to substitute its judgment for that of the directors. Southwestern Bell Tel, Co. v. Public Service
Coim'vn, 262 U. S. 276, 288-289; United Gas Co. v. Rail-

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO. v. YOUNG. 491
488

Argument for Appellant.

road Comm'n, 278 U. S. 300, 320-321. Public interest
can not be invoked as a justification for demands which
-pass the limits of reasonable protection and seek to impose upon a utility and its property burdens that are not
incident to its engagement. Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595-6.
These principles, applied to this case, dearly mean that
appellant is protected in the dedication of its property as
a unit to the public service and that the State under the
guise of regulation may not dismember that property and
subject portions of it to uses to which appellant has never
submitted them. It is plainly apparent that the owner
might be. perfectly willing to serve fifty interconnected
towns as a unit, and not be willing to serve any of them
separately.
Having by reasonable and lawful methods arquired a
given operating unit of utility property, he has the constitutional right to insist that that unit shall as a whole
be permitted at all times to yield to him a fair return
upon its value, and that the State may not, whatever its
local forms, deprive that unit of property of such earnings. There is no suggestion in this record of unreasonableness or unlawfulness in the establishment of the operating unit serving the fifty towns, cities and rural communities located on appellant's interconnected systems.
On the contrary all of the evidence establishes the reasonableness and economy of the system.
The public service commissions of the various States
quite generally recognize that the proper unit for"testing
rates is the used and useful property which makes up the
operating unit, and they have generally refused to make
the municipality the rate unit. [Citing from many public utility decisions.]
If Martinsville is to be treated as a segregated unit,'
the allocation of power system property, to Martinsvilleuse, and. the fixing of a "gateway" cost for electric

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

energy supplied Martinsville, must be on a use basis and
not by averaging. NorthernPac. Ry. Co. v. Dep't of Pub.
Wks., 268 U. S. 39, 42--5; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 274 U. S. 344, 351; Wood v.
VandaliaR. Co., 231 U. S. 1, 3-4.
The court erred in finding the value of the appellant's
used and useful property; in finding that no costs of
financing would be incurred in reproducing any of appellant's property; in finding that only $4,000.00 should be
charged to operating expenses for the expenses of this
rate case when the actual expenses were shown to be in
excess of $60,000.00; and in finding that a return of 7%
upon the fair value of the property used and useful in
the public service is a reasonable return. United Railways v. West, 280'U. S. 234, 251-52; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co, 272 U. S. 400, 419.
An eight per cent. return was allowed in the following
cases: 262 U. S. 443, 445; 6 F. (2d) 243, 273-4, 280; 10 F.
(2d) 252, 255; 7 F. (2d) 192, 194-5, 218, aff'd 278 U. S.
322; 16 F. (2d) 615, 622, 638; 26 F. (2d) 912, 924-5;
36 F. (2d) 54, 67-9; 45 F. (2d) 180, 182-3; 57 F. (2d) 735,
745, 754; 1 F. (2d) 351, 370.
The Commission can not ignore items charged by the
utility as operating expenses unless there is an abuse of
discretion in that regard by the corporate officers.
Messrs. Arthur L. Gilliom and George Hufsmith, Assistant Attorney General of Indiana, with whom Messrs.
James M. Ogden, Attorney General, and Ralph K. Lowder.
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant is one of seven affiliated public utility corporations organized under the laws of Indiana, more than

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO. v. YOUNG. 493
488

Opinion of the Court.

99 per cent, of-the combined capital stock and securities
of which is owned by the Central Indiana Power Company. The officers and directors of the. several corporations are the same, and the operations of the entire group
are under a common control, so that in substance the
business of all is carried on as though they constituted a
single entity. Their lines are interconnected, and. the
electrical energy distributed by them is drawn from common sources. Appellant owns and.operates an interconnected system in a territory comprising thirteen counties
of the state, and sells and distributes electric current to
approximately fifty cities and towns therein, including
the inhabitants of the City of Martinsville, and also to
a large number of industrial plants and customers outside
the limits of such. cities and towns. Appellant's system
consists in the main of general transmission and'transformation properties, and local distributing plants,
Among other local plants it owns one in the City of Martinsville, which was built by former owners to supply that
city and its inhabitants. In the hands of the original
owners this was a separate and complete plant, generating
electrical energy as well as distributing it.
Nearly all the electric current distributed by appellant
is." purchased" by it from one of the other Affliated corporations which has had in operation since 1924 an extensive and modern generating plant known as the "Dresser
Plant." The combined needs of the affiliated corporations have so increased that for the year ending May 31,
1930, the total current used greatly exceeded that supplied by the Dresser Plant; and in order to meet the
increased demand the affiliated system was connected with
other large generating plants in Indiana and Ohio. In
furtherance of the general plans of the affiliated group,
appellant some years ago purchased the local electric
plant at Martinsville and similar plants in many other

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

cities and towns within the thirteen counties above
referred to.
The Martinsville plant now. is operated by appellant
under an indeterminate permit from the state in virtue
of the provisions of the state Public Utility Act. 3 Burns
Ann. Ind. Stat., 1926, § 12672, et seq. The current is fed
into this plant from outside sources, principally from the
Dresser Plant. Section 57 of the Public Utility Act
(supra, § 12728) authorizes, among others, any municipal
organization or any ten persons directly interested to make
complaint to the Public Service Commission challenging
any rates, tolls, etc., as unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory. Under that provision, on. March 16, 1927, seventeen citizens of Martinsville, patrons of appellant, filed
with the Public Service Commission of Indiana a petition
seeking a reduction in electric rates, in which petition the
City of Martinsville subsequently joined. At that time,
and prior thereto, appellant had on fie with the commission a schedule of rates applicable only in that city. After
hearings, the commission made an order, effective as of
February 1, 1929, reducing the rates for electric service
to be charged and collected by appellant in Martinsville.
Appellant, being dissatisfied with these rates and asserting that they were confiscatory, brought suit in the federal
district court for the southern district of Indiana to enjoin
the commission and others from enforcing the order. The
City of Martinsville intervened and filed an answer in
support of the rates. The court issued a temporary injunction. and referred the case to a special master to hear
and report the evidence to the court, together with his
findings of fact and conclusions of law. The-master heard
the case and made a report of the evidence and of his
findings of-fact and conclusions thereon, to which appellant filed a large number of -exceptions. The district
court, consisting of three judges (§ 266 of the Judicial
Code, U. S. C., Title 28, § 380), approved the report of

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO. v. YOUNG. 495
488

Opinion of the Court.

the master and also made findings of fact and conclusions
of law in accordance with Equity Rule 701/, and, thereupon, delivered an opinion and entered a decree dissolving
the temporary injunction, directing appellant to refund
to its customers all amounts collected from them in excess of those which it would have collected under the
schedule of rates complained of, and dismissing the bill
for want of equity. I F. Supp. 106.
Rate base. The court below held that under the provisions of the state statute and in the light of the facts, not
the entire property and system of appellant, but the City
of Martinsville alone should be treated as the unit for
the purpose of determining the schedule of rates to be
charged therein. The commission, as well as the master,
had reached the same conclusion. Upon that basis, in
fixing the value of the property used and useful for supplying electric current to the city, the court determined
the value of the local property, to which it added that
proportionate part of the value of the system property
which it found to be fairly attributable to the Martinsville service.
Appellant's chief contention is that its entire operating
property should be taken as a unit in fixing the rate base,
and that the action of the court in failing to do so deprived it of its property without due process of law.
The Martinsville plant, prior to its acquisition by appellant, had produced within itself the whole of the electric current which its owners sold and distributed. That
it then was a distinct unit for the purpose of fixing rates,
if and when necessary, is, of course, clear. If the former
owners had simply abandoned the use of the local generating appliances and purchased electric current from outside sources, the plant, for all purposes of rate making
and regulation, would have remained a distinct and separate unit. It was this unit which appellant acquired; and
if appellant had continued to operate it as it then was

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

being operated, that is to say, as a generating, as well as
a distributing, plant for the entire electric current supplied to the city, the value of the plant with appropriate
allowances for expenses, etc., would have continued to be
the lawful rate base. But that method of operation was
abandoned; and the question is whether, because the local
plant now is interconnected with appellant's general distributing system and the electric current is drawn from
outside sources, the city still may be treated as a separate
unit for rate making purposes.
The answer primarily depends upon the meaning and
*application of the state Public Utility Act. The Supreme
Court of Indiana thus far has not dealt with the question; but the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, construing
an act of that state essentially the same as the Indiana
act, has determined that the Wisconsin commission was
"required to treat the municipality as a unit 'nd to base
its rate upon the cost to the utility of serving the individual municipality rather than the average cost of serving
many distinct and scattered municipalities." Eau Claire
v. Wisconsin-MinnesotaL. & P. Co., 178 Wis. 207, 220;
189 N. W. 476, 481. This result was deduced by the
Wisconsin court (pp. 217 et seq.) not from any express
provision of the statute, but from a consideration of
many .correlated statutory provisions and in the light of
"the history of commercial, economic, and political, development." That court pointed out that when the Public Utility Act *was enacted, each municipality was charged
with the duty of furnishing public utility service and
end6weid with power to perform that duty; that each
municipality had, and dealt with, an individual public
utility; that there was no great, development of power
by a single utility serving numerous municipalities scattered far and wide; and, hence, that present day.developments could not have been within the contemplation of

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO. v. YOUNG. 497
488

Opinion of the Court.

the legislature because they did not exist. The court
stressed the. fact that, notwithstanding the subsequent
large developments of power which had come about since
the passage of the utility law, there had been no modification of that law, which, in the light of conditions then
existing, must have "regarded the municipality as the
entity on the one hand and the utility as the entity
on the other, for the 15urpose of establishing just and reasonable rates and service." Upon these considerations
and others, the c out reached the conclusion above stated.
Sinc6 the Indiana act was patterned after the Wisr
consin act with a like history and attended by similar circumstances, the court below felt warranted in following
the decision of the Wisconsin court; and with that view
we see no reason to disagree. Whether the method afforded by the state statute thus construed is in accordance with sound policy is a question with which we are
not concerned. See Wabash, St. L.& P. Ry. Co.v. Illinois,
118 U, S. 557, 577; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
416. The only question we are called upon to consider
is whether, under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the method is' constitutional.
Normally, the unit for rate making purposes, we may
assume, would be the entire interconnected operating
property of a utility used and useful for the convenience
of the public in the territory served, Without regard to
particular groups of consumers or local subdivisions. But
conditions may be such as to require or permit the fixing
of a smaller unit. Compare United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 278 U. S.300; United Fuel Gas Co.v.
Pub. S&rv. Commn., id., 322; MinnesotaRate Cases,supra,
at pp. 434-436; Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., 282 U. S.
133, 148, -et seq.; Houston v. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co.,
259 U. S.318, 322.
The three cases last cited recognize that where the
business of a carrier or utility is both interstate and intra-

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

state, the state rates for intrastate transportation or business must be determined by a separate consideration of
the value of the property employed in the intrastate business. It is true that there such a separation is made necessary because a different government exercises the rate
making power in each of. the two fields of regulation; and
that situation is wanting here. Nevertheless, the cases
furnish a helpful illustration in support of the applica,
tion of a similar rule in the case now under review. Compare United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 13 F.
(2d) 510, 522; United Fuel Gas Cu. v. Public Service
Commn., 14 F. (2d) 209,223; Idaho Power Co. v. Thompson, 19 F. (2d) 547, 571; and see InternationalRy. Co. v.
Prendergast,1 F. Supp. 623, 626.
In addition to what already has been said, it should be
noted that appellant not only furnishes electric current
to the fifty separate and unrelated towns and cities, in
none of which the plant is used or useful for the rendition
of service to any -other town or city, but appellant also
carries over its lines and delivers to others of the affiliated
companies, as intercorporate transactions, varying portions of the entire current borne by its lines for subsequent
distribution by the affiliated companies to their customers,
including many towns and cities within their respective
territories. This intermingling of the business and distributing activities of the several companies results in
such elements of uncertainty in respect of the proper
evaluation of appellant's participation therein that,
standing alone, it would go far in the direction of justifying the rejection of the contention that the due process
clause requires that appellant's entire distributing system
should be included in the basic unit. In the light of all
the-facts and circumstances, we hold that an adjustment
of rates for the municipality here served by appellant in
accordance with the method adopted below is consonant
with state law and immune from constitutional attack.

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO. v. YOUNG. 499
488

Opinion of the Court.

Valuation and Expense Allowances. Appellant further
contends that, assuming this method to be free from constitutional objection, the valuation put upon the property
is so low as to result in confiscation. To meet this objection it is only necessary that there shall be brought into
the rate base the value of all property of appellant which
is in fact used and useful for supplying the electric current to the city. Mknifestly, the local plants in other
towns and cities bear no such relation to the Martinsville
plant. As already shown, these various plants are separate and distinct from one another, and they were properly left out of the calculation. See Hardin-Wyandot
Lighting Co. v. Public Utilities Commn., 118 Ohio St. 592,
601; 162 N. E. 262. - The property values fixed by the
commission and those fixed by the master and approved
by the court differ to some degree, but not so materially
as to affect the result. Upon the basis adopted, that is,
first to value the local property and then add that proportionate part of the value of the general distributing
system found tobe fairly attributable to the Martinsville
service, the figures finally arrived at by the master and
the court were $102,947 for the local plant, and $101,191
for the proportionate value of the other property, or a
total of $204,138. In arriving at the second figure a proportionate part of the total value of the general system
was allocated to Martinsville "on the basis of the ratio
of actual sales of Kw. H. to Martinsville and its consumers to the total sales of Kw. H. by plaintiff during
the ydar 1929, that being the last calendar year before
the date of the hearing." This ratio was arrived at and
supported by a variety of calculations, the results differing slightly, and upon these various calculations the court
fixed 3.3 per cent. as the fair ratio of the value to be
allocated to Martinsville.
We deem it unnecessary to repeat the details which led
'to the court's conclusion. The findings of the court and

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

of the master are full and convincing and give evidence of
careful and thorough consideration. The deductions from
the evidence and the calculations are of necessity more or
less approximate (Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.
165, 190), but we find nothing in the record which casts
a substantial doubt upon their essential fairness.
Complaint is-made that in determining the value of the
Martinsville property no allowance was made for cost of
financing. As the court below, however; pointed out,
there was no evidence that such cost was incurred, or that
it necessarily would be incurred in the event of reconstruction. This is also in accordance with the findings of the
master. We see no reason to interfere. See Vincennes
Water Supply Co. v. Public Service Commn., 34 F. (2d)
5,9.
The commission, the master, and the court below all rejected as exorbitant the claim of appellant for an allowance of $60,000 rate case expenses, and allowed the sum of
$4,000, to be amortized as an operating charge over a
period of ten years. This action, it is contended, was arbitrary and without basis in the evidence. While there is
evidence in the record that appellant expended the amount
claimed, there is further evidence justifying the conclusion
that a large part of the expenditure was made for the additional purpose of securing data relatingto a merger proceeding with which the Martinsville rates are in no way
connected. There is also evidence that the appraisal
covered the local property in the other municipalities,
which, as we have seen, are without relation to the Martinsville distribution. From a consideration of all the
evidence it seems clear that the refusal to allow, as against
the Martinsville plant, the entire $60,000 was well founded.
That being so, it became necessary to fix that part of the
sum reasonably chargeable as an expense of the Martinsville rate case. The commission and the master, who
heard the evidence and were familiar with all the details,

WABASH VALLEY ELEC. CO. v. YOUNG.
488

501

Opinion of the Court.

reached the same conclusion as to the amount. While it
may be true that even upon the view taken a larger sum
than $4,000 might well have been allowed, we find nothing
sufficiently definite in the record to require us so to determine, or to call for a disturbance of the amount fixed.
Rate af return. The court below found that a rate of
return of 7 per cent. was adequate. The evidence is conflicting. Witnesses fbr appellees estimated that 7 per
cent. was sufficient. The testimony for appellant was to
the effect that to take care of bonds, debt discounts, bor-rowed money and stock dividends a return of 7 per cent.
-was sufficient; but that in order to accumulate a surplus
and make it easier to finance the company, the rate of
return should be not less than 8 per cent. Appellant's
balance sheets show that on January 1, 1929, it had an
accumulated surplus of $1,074,739.71, and, at the end of
that year, a surplus of $1,257,884.64, as compared with a
total stock -and funded debt liability of about $4,500,000.
The record, as already stated, also shows that appellant is
a subsidiary of the Central Indiana Power Company by
which it is owned and financed, its securities having been
taken directly by that company without any intervening
agency. The power company also owns and finances the
other affiliated corporations in the same way. It is reasonable to conclude that appellant is in a more favorable financial condition than if..-it were a disconnected
enterprise.
It is true, as appellant points out, that in United.Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234, 251-252, this court held that
a rate of return for a street railway of less than 7.44 per
dent. was confiscatory, saying that sound business management required that after paying all expenses of opera-.
tion, etc., "there should still remain something to be
passed to the surplus account; " and that a rate of return
which did not admit of that being done was not sufficient
to enable a utility to maintain its credit and raise money

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

for the proper discharge of its public duties. Many cases
were cited tending to show that a return of 71/2 per cent.
or even 8 per cent. might be necessary, but it was said
(pp. 249-250) that no rule could be laid down which
would apply uniformly to all sorts of utilities. "What
may be a fair return for one may be inadequate for another, depending upon circumstances, locality and risk."
A street railway company, compelled to meet the growing
competition of private automobiles, public omnibuses, and
other motor carriers, well might sustain such losses of
revenue because of the decreased number of passengers
carried, as -to require a larger rate of return than would
be required by an electric utility company like appellant,
which not only enjoys a practical monopoly in the field
where its services are rendered, but whose financial structure, it fairly may be assumed, is greatly strengthened by
its affiliations and by the interested support of the parent
company to -which it belongs. On the whole we are unable to conclude that a 7 per cent. rate of return, under the
facts here disclosed, is so low as to be configcatory. See
Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., supra,at pp. 160-161.
Moreover it appears, as the master and the lower court
found, that if the rates complained of had been in force
during the period beginning January 1, 1929, and ending
May 31, 1930, the return would have been much in excess
of 7 per cent. on the value fixed.
Decree affirmed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO. ET AL. v. FORD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT Of SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 194.

Argued December 14, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1. If due process is afforded by provisions of a state statute as construed and applied by the state supreme court in the case under
review, the appellant can not complain that in earlier cases they

