WASHINGTON FID. INS. CO. v. BURTON.

97

Counsel for Parties.

92

tried in equity. Their application was noticed to be
heard about a week before the case was reached for trial.
It is not shown that they delayed the hearing of the wotion. Presumably the matter was referred to the judge
sitting in equity to serve the convenience of the court.
The rile directs the transfer if "at any time" it shall
appear that the suit should have been brought as an
action at law. An application for transfer brought on
for hearing before the commencement of the trial is not
too late. Parkersonv. Borst, 251 Fed. 242, 245. Plaintiff's claim that defendants waived their right under the
rule is without merit.
Reversed.
WASHINGTON FIDELITY NATIONAL
ANCE CO. v. BURTON.
CERTIORARI TO T

INSUR-

F APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
E COUP
CuijUMBIA.

No. 22. Argued October 20, 1932.--Decided November 7, 1932.
Section 657 of the Code of the District of Columbia, as amended,
provides that each life insurance company doing business in the
District shall deliver with each policy issued by ii a copy of the
application made by the insured, so that the whole contract may
appear in the said application and policy, "in default of which no
defense shall be allowed to such policy on account of anything
contained in, or omitted from, such application." Held: That
where the policy declared that it constituted the entire agreement,
the fact that'no application was delivered with it did not preclude a defense based upon a provision- of the policy avoiding it
if the insured was not in sound health at the time of issue. P. 100.
5 F. (2d) '300, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 286 U. S.'536, to review, the affirmance of a

judgment in an action on a life insurance policy.
Mr. Gilbert L. Hall, with whom Messrs. Walter C.
Clephane and J. Wilmer Latimer were on the brief, for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932:
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Mr. W. Gwynn Gardiner, with whom Mr. George A.
Maddox was on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Benjamin S. Minor, H. Prescott Gatley, and
Arthur P. Drury, by leave of Cour, filed a brief as amici
curiae.
MR. JusTIcE BU=LER delivered

the opinion of the Court.

Respondent sued in the municipal court of the District
of Columbia to recover the amount of an insurance policy
issued by-petitioner December 12, 1927, on the life of her
husband, who died May 22, 1929, The policy was delivered to the insured and all premiums were paid in the
District of Columbia where he lived. Adequate.proof of
death, plaintiff's demand for payment and defendant's
refusal to pay were conceded. The policy contained these
provisions: "This Policy constitutes the entire agreement
between the Company and the Insured and theholder and
owner hereof. . . . If the Insured . . . is not in sound
health on the date hereof ... the Company may declare
this Policy void . . ." Section 657 of the District Code
(Act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1294, as amended by Act
of June 30, 1902, 32 Stat. 534) provides: "Each life insurance company, benefit order and association doing a life
insurance business in the District of Columbia shall deliver
with each policy issued by it a copy of the application
made by the insured so that the whole contract may appear
in said application and policy, in default of which no
defense shall be allowed to such policy on account of anything coiltained in, or omitted from, such application."
The company did not deliver with the policy or otherwise
a copy of an application therefor. Indeed, there was no
evidence that any had been made. Defendant offered
evidence to show that, at the date of the issue of the
policy, the insured was n6t in sound health. Plaintiff
objected on the ground that no copy of the application

WASHINGTON FID. INS. CO. v. BURTON.
97

99

Opinion of the CourL

was delivered with the policy. The court, relying on the
statute, sustained the objection and refused to permit
defendant to interpose that defense and gave judgment
for plaintiff. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 56 F. (2d)
300.
The sole question is whether ยง 657 was rightly
construed.
The Court of Appeals assumed as a matter of common
knowledge that lite insurance polices are issued on written applications and that in this case one had been made
by the insured. Without deciding whether that assumption is warranted, we shall consider the case as if it were
shown that the assured applied in writing for the insurance in question. In the absence of a statute forbidding
it, contracts of insurance may be made orally. Relief
Fire Ins. Co. v. Shaw, 94 U. S. 574.. There -is no such
prohibitior iii the District of Columbia. In ยง 657 the
word "policy" and the phrase "a copy of the application" plainly indicate that writings are meanti (Trustees
of the First Baptist Church v. Brooklyn Fire Ins. Co.,
19 N. Y. 305, 308), and that the statute does not extend
to oral applications. The construction generally put upon
enactments like the one before us indicates that the principal if not the only purpose is that, if there be an application,'a copy of it shall be attached to or otherwise
delivered with the policy so that the documents showing the entire agreement shall be made available to the
insured.' That serves to guard the insured against mis-.
understanding as to his contract and, in case of controversy with. the company, to protect him against sur*MacKinnon & Co. v. Mut. FireIns. Co., 89 Ia.. 170; 56 N. W. 423.
Rauen v. Insurance Co., 129 Ia. 725; 106 N. W. 198. Kirkpatrick v.
Accident Co., 139 Ia. 370; 115 N. W. 1107. Lenox v. Insurance Co.,
165 Pa. 575; 30 AtI. 940. Washington Fire Relief Assn. v. Albro, 130
Wish. 114; 226 Pao. 264. Metropolitan L. Ins. Co. v. Scott, 160 Miss.
537; 134 So. 159.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

287 U.S.

prise, inconvenience and danger of injustice liable to arise
where the policy- does not contain the entire agreement
and refers for parts of it to applications or other papers.
That purpose is reflected clearly by the clause that, in
default of the required delivery of a copy of the application, no defense shall be allowed to such policy on account
of anything "contained in, or omitted from, such application." And the barring of such defenses is the only consequence declared to result.
Here the policy definitely declares that it constitutes
the entire agreement between the parties. The defense
interposed is based solely on one of its provisions and
has no relation to the application. The sect-ion does not
require written applications to be made or declare that,
where one is made but not delivered with the policy,
there shall be no defense based on the provisions of the
policy itself. And no reason is suggested in support of a
construction of the section that would prevent defense
based on a provision of the policy even though a similar
or .the same provision were contained in an application.
As this policy expressed the entire agreement defendant,
notwithstanding its failure to deliver a copy of- the
application, was entitled to interpose such defenses as
would have been open to it if no application had
been made. MacKinnon & Co. v. Mut. Fire Ins. Co.,
89 Ia. 170, 173; 56 N. W. 423. Imperial F. Ins.
Co. v. Dunham, 117 Pa. 460, 473i 12 Atl. 668. It follows that ยง 657 furnishes no support for the refusal of
the trial court to permit defendant to show that the
insured was not in sound health when the policy was
i~sued.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTice. STONE, dissenting.
If an insurance policy is issued on written application
and the company fails to deliver a copy of it to the in-

WASHINGTON FID. INS. CO. v. BURTON. 101
97

STONE, J.,

dissenting.

sured, along with the policy, the District, statute, in terms,
provides that "no defense shall be allowed to such policy
on account of anything contained in or omitted from the
application." In this case it does not appear that there
was anr written application, and as the defense was based
on a clause contained in the policy, which purported to
embody the "whole contract," no case was presented calling for the application of the statute, or which would
enable a court to say just what force should be given to
its prohibition in a case where the written applieation,
not delivered with the policy, is in evidence. For that
reason the case should be reversed if it is not, for other
reasons, to be dismissed.
I think it should be dismissed. The certiorari was
granted upon a petition which set forth as grounds for
its allowance that the court below, in construing the prohibition of the statute, had "decided erroneously a question of general importance" and that the decision "is
in conflict with all decisions in other jurisdictions involving similar statutes and therefore tends to unsettle the
law." Upon the briefs and the argument the statutes of
many states were quoted, prescribing the legal consequences of the failure of the insurer to deliver to the insured, with the policy, a copy of the written application.
Most of them provide only that in such cases the application is not to be considered a part of the policy or received in evidence in a suit brought upon it. None contain language like that of the present statute prohibiting
any defense on the policy "on account of anything contained in or omitted from" the application, and we have
been cited to no decision of any court outside the District
of Columbia in which that language or any resembling it
has been considered.
It thus appears that the construction of the statute
which we were asked to review is not in the case, and even
if it were, it is of local significance only. The conflict of

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

287 U.S.

decisions asserted is not shown. Plainly the question is
not of such general interest or importance as under the
rules and practice of this Court warrants its review upon
certiorari. For these reasons it is the duty of this Court
to dismiss the writ as improvidently granted. Tyrrell v.
District of Columbia, 243 U. S. 1; Southern Power Co. v.
Public Service Co., 263 U. S. 508; Houston Oil Co. v.

(Goodrich,245 U. S. 440; Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western Well Works, 261 U. S. 387; Furness, Withy & Co. v.
Yang-Tsze Insurance Assn., 242 U. S. 430.
If the writ is not to be dismissed and the case is to be
decided on the construction of the statute, the Court's
reversal of the judgment, in the absence of the application
which, for purposes of decision, it assumes to exist, can
only proceed on the ground that under no circumstances
could a defense based on a clause in the policy itself be
said to be one "on account of anything contained in or
omitted from the application." With that conclusion I
am unable to agree. The defense here was that the insured was not in sound health at the date of the policy.
Petitioner sought to establish it by showing that the state
of health of the insured, then deceased, had been bad for
several years before the policy was issued. If the written application were before the Court and revealed that
the insured had been asked about his condition of health
and had either answered fully and truthfully, or not at
all, it would show, I think, that the defense, within the
very meaning and purpose of the statute, was "on account" of something "contained in or omitted from the
application," and that the petitioner was precluded from
making it.
MP. JusncE BRA=EIs concurs in this opinion.

