502

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

for the proper discharge of its public duties. Many cases
were cited tending to show that a return of 71/2 per cent.
or even 8 per cent. might be necessary, but it was said
(pp. 249-250) that no rule could be laid down which
would apply uniformly to all sorts of utilities. "What
may be a fair return for one may be inadequate for another, depending upon circumstances, locality and risk."
A street railway company, compelled to meet the growing
competition of private automobiles, public omnibuses, and
other motor carriers, well might sustain such losses of
revenue because of the decreased number of passengers
carried, as -to require a larger rate of return than would
be required by an electric utility company like appellant,
which not only enjoys a practical monopoly in the field
where its services are rendered, but whose financial structure, it fairly may be assumed, is greatly strengthened by
its affiliations and by the interested support of the parent
company to -which it belongs. On the whole we are unable to conclude that a 7 per cent. rate of return, under the
facts here disclosed, is so low as to be configcatory. See
Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., supra,at pp. 160-161.
Moreover it appears, as the master and the lower court
found, that if the rates complained of had been in force
during the period beginning January 1, 1929, and ending
May 31, 1930, the return would have been much in excess
of 7 per cent. on the value fixed.
Decree affirmed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO. ET AL. v. FORD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT Of SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 194.

Argued December 14, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1. If due process is afforded by provisions of a state statute as construed and applied by the state supreme court in the case under
review, the appellant can not complain that in earlier cases they

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FORD.
502

Opinion of the Court.

were so construed and applied as to deny due process to other
litigants. P. 505.
2. A state statute that raises a presumption of negligence against the
railroad in a grade crossing accident upon proof of failure to give
prescribed warning signals, is not contrary to due process if the
presumption amounts merely to a temporary inference which may
be rebutted by evidence and is thereafter to be excluded in determining proximate cause. Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,
219 U. S. 35, and Western & Att. R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S.
639, contrasted. P. 506.
3. Limiting such presumption of negligence to railway companies does
not deprive them of equal protection of the laws. P. 509.
4. The presumption does not violate the commerce clause. Id.
5. Instructions to a jury are to be reasonably interpreted; if they are
not sufficiently definite, the omissions complained of should be
pointed out when exceptions are taken. P. 507.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a recovery against
the railroad company in an action for personal injuries.
Mr. Henry E. Davis, with whom Messrs. F. B. Grier
and Thomas W. Davis were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. W. C. Davis for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action brought by appellee in a South Carolina state court of first instance against the railroad company and its engineer to recover for injuries said to have
been sustained by her as the result of a collision at a
public highway crossing between an automobile in which
she was riding and a passenger train of the company. The
complaint alleges several grounds of negligence, but the
only one necessary for our consideration is that appellants
negligently failed to give the crossing signals provided for
by the state law.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

By § 4903, Vol. 3 of the Code of South Carolina (1922),
a railroad company is required to place on each locomotive engine a bell of at least thirty pounds weight and a
steam or air whistle, and "such bell shall be rung or such
whistle sounded by the engineer . . . at the distance of.
at least five hundred yards from the . . . traveled place,
and be kept ringing or whistling until the engine ... has
crossed such highway ...
Section 4925 provides:
"Injuries at Crossings-Penalty and Damages.-If a
person is injured in his person or property by collision
with the engines or any car or cars of a railroad corporation at a crossing, and it appears that the corporation
neglected to give the signals required by this Chapter,
and that such neglect contributed to the injury, the corpo-"
ration shall be liable for all damages caused by the collision, or to a fine recoverable by indictment, as provided
in the preceding Section, unless it is shown that in addition to a mere want of ordinary care the person injured,
or the person having charge of his person or property, was
at the time of the collision guilty of gross or wilful negligence, or was acting in violation of the law, and that such
gross [or] wilful negligence or unlawful act contributed
to the injury."
Appellants answered the complaint, denying liability
and setting up affirmative defenses. The cause was tried
before the court and a jury. At the close of the eVidence, appellants moved for a directed verdict in their
favor upon the ground, among others, that §§ 4903 and
4925 of the code, as they had been construed, constituted a violation of the due process. of law and equal
protection of law clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and an unlawful attempt to regulate interstate -commerce. The motion was overruled, and the jury after
being instructed returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff,

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FORD.
502

Opinion of the Court.

upon which judgment was duly entered. The state supreme court affirmed the judgment.
The attack upon the statute as contravening the due
process clause is bated upon the contention, shortly
stated, that the state supreme court, by affirming the
judgment, in effect construed the statute to mean that
failure to give the prescribed signals is negligence per se
and raises a presumption that such failure is the proximate cause of the collision and warrants recovery by
the plaintiff without further proof, and that such presumption does not vanish from the case upon the introduction of evidence by the railroad company, but remains throughout to be considered by the jury as evidence. We have italicized the words which are said by
appellants to constitute the crux of their contention.
Appellants review many decisions of -the state supreme
court dealing with the question, which seem not to be
altogether in agreement; but it is not necessary to analyze
these decisions and from them attempt to extract the
.rule. The court below has done this and reached a conclusion contrary to that advanced by appellants; and that
is enough for the purposes of our decision here. If the
assailed provisions as construed and applied in the present case afford due process, appellants cannot complain
that in earlier cases they. were so construed and applied
as to deny due process to other litigants. Compare
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Sunburst Oil & Refining Co.,
ante, p. 358; Patterson v. Colorado,*205 U. S. 454, 460;
Brinkerhofi-FarisCo. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 680; Dunbar
v. New York, 251 U. S. 516, 518-519; Tidal Qil Co. v.
Flanagan,263 U. S. 444, 452; Fleming v. Fleming, 264
U. S. 29, 31.
The jury, upon this subject, was instructed as follows:
"... under that statute, it is incumbent upon the
plaintiff here first to prove that the'crossing signals were

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

not given, ... and then she must prove, and prove both
by the preponderance of the evidence as I have already
charged you, that that failure to give the signals contributed to the injury of which she is complaining.
Where the signals are not given as in the manner provided by statute, and an injury occurs at the crossing of
railroad and public highway, a presumption would arise
that the failure to give the signals is the proximate cause
of the injury. But such presumption would be rebuttable
by evidence, and the jury should consider any and all evidence that may be in the case in determining the question
of proximate cause. . . . the failure to give these signals
raises that presumption, but it is rebuttable; it is not a
conclusive presumption. That may be rebutted by the
defendants by its [their] evidence, and as stated here, all
the evidence must be considered in determining the question of proximate cause."
Immediately preceding the charge to the jury, the trial
court, rulig upon the motion for a directed verdict, had
quoted the words of this court in Western & At. R. Co. v.
Henderson, 270 U. S. 639, 643, used in comparing the
Georgia statute there under consideration with the Mississippi statute considered in Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v.
Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35:
"Each of the state enactments raises a presumption
from the fact of injury caused by the running of locomotives or cars. The Mississippi statute created merely a
temporary inference of fact that vanished upon the introduction of opposing evidence. [citing cases] That of
Georgia as construed in this case creates an inference that
is given effect of evidence to be weighed against opposing
testimony and i to prevail unless such testimony is found
by the jury to preponderate."
And the effect of the ruling of the trial court is that the
South Carolina statute was comparable with that of Mis-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FORD.
502

Opinion of the Court.

sissippi and not with that of Georgia. It must be 'supposed that the court, with this in fnind, intended to charge
the jhry in accordance with the language which it had
just quoted. True, the jury was not told in so many
words that where countervailing evidence had been put
in tPe presumption comes to an end, but we think this is
the fair purport of the language of the court to the effect
that appellants may rebut the presumption by their evidence, and that then all the evidence must be considered
in determining the question of proximate cause. Certainly, the charge contains no affirmative words directing
the jury in that event to consider the presumption as
evidence to be weighed with other evidence in the case.
Under these circumstances, a, request for a more explicit
instruction in exact accord with what had just been read
as to the Mississippi statute undoubtedly would have
been granted; but that request was not made. Instructions are entitled to a reasonable interpretation, and are
not generally to be regarded as the subject of error on
account of not being sufficiently definite, if omissions
complained of are not at the time pointed out by the
excepting party. Castle v. Bullard, 23 How. 172, 189190; First Unitarian Society v. Faulkner, 91 U. S. 415,
423; Tweed's Case, 16 Wall. 504, 515-516; Locke v.
United States., 2 Cliff. 574, 15 Fed. Cas. 740, 742 (No.
8,442).
A reading of its opinion leaves no doubt that the state
supreme court construed the statute as creating a presumption limited by the. rule of the Turnipseed case,
supra (at p. 43), and considered the charge of the trial
court as in harmony with that view-namely; that the
legal effect of the presumption was to cast upon the railroad company the duty of producing some evidence to
the contrary, whereupon the inference was at an end,
and the question became one for the jury upon all of the
evidence. Appellants' contention that the presumption

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

fell within the principle laid down as to the Georgia statute in the Henderson case, supra, was rejected, and the
court said that no decision brought to its attention sustained "the characterization of the disputable presumption arising under the crossing statute to the effect that
it remains 'throughout the entire case' and is to be
weighed as opposing evidence in fixing liability."
The Georgia statute involved in the Hendersoncase was
of an entirely different character. As construed by the
Georgia court, it not only permitted the presumption of
negligence to be given the effect of evidence to be weighed
against opposing testimony and to prevail unless such testimony was found by the jury to preponderate, but it was
fundamentally arbitrary, in that the mere fact of collision
between a railway train and a vehicle at a highway grade
crossing created a presumption that the accident was
caused by the negligence -of the company. The mere fact
of such a collision, we said, "furnishes no basis for any
inference as to whether the accident was caused by negligence of the railway company or of the traveler on the
highway or of both or without fault of anyone. Reasoning does not lead from the occurrence back to its cause."
Moreover, the presumption was invoked to support conflicting allegations of negligence. Our decision in that
case appropriately might have been cited here if we were
considering a statute construed to mean that mere proof of
collision at a crossing creates a presumption that the bell
was not rung or the whistle sounded. But the rational
connection between the fact proved and the fact inferred
is plain enough when the proposition is put conversely,
namely, that proof of failure on the part of the railroad
to give the statutory signals raises a presumption that
sueh failure is the proximate cause of the injury.*
* In addition to the Turnipseed case, see Bailey v. Alabama, 219

U. S. 219, 238; Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 25; Yee Heft v.
United States, 268 U. S. 178, 183.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. BLODGETT.
502

509

Syllabus.

It follows that the statutory presumption as construed
by the court below is free from constitutional infirmity
under the due process clause.
The objection that because the presumption applies only
to railway c6mpanies, its effect is to deprive appellants
of the equal protection of the laws is clearly untenable.
Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia,234 U. S. 280, 289; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 233 U. S. 325, 330;
Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73' 76; Mobile,
J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, supra; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205, 209. There is even less
ground for the final contention that the statutory presumption under consideration violates the interstatE commerce clause of the federal Constitution. Upon that
point we are satisfied with what was said by the court
below upon the authority, among other cases, of Atlantic
Coast Line v. Georgia, supra, at p. 290, and Southern Ry.
Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 531-533.
Judgment affirmed.
GUARANTY TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v. BLODGETT, TAX COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY,
CONNECTICUT.

No. 217. Argued December'15, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.
1. Where it is claimed that a state statute imposing a tax has been
applied by the state supreme court to an earlier contract in violation of the contract impairment clause of the Constitution, the
opinion of th.at court definitely sustaining the tax on another statute
antedating the contract must be accepted, in the absence of convincing reasons to the contrary. P. 512.
2. The contract clause not being involved, a construction placed upon
a state statute by the state.supreme court binds this Court as fully
as if expressed in the statute itself in specific words. P. 513.

