ADVANCE-RJ MELY CO. v. JACKSON.
Argument for Appellant.

ADVANCE-RUMELY THRESHER CO., INC., v.
JACKSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 33.

Argued November 10, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. In determining the validity of a legislative declaration that a
contract is contrary to public policy, regard is to be had to the
general rule that competent persons shall have the utmost liberty
of contracting and that it is only where enforcement conflicts with

dominant public interests that one who has had the benefit of
performance by the other party to a contract Will be permitted to
avoid his own promise. P. 288.
2. Upon the sale of a machine for cutting and threshing the buyer's
grain in a single operation, there is an implied warranty under
the Uniform Sales Act, adopted in North Dakota, that the machine
is reasonably fit for that purpose. P. 288.
3. A North Dakota statute provides that the purchaser of harvesting or threshing, machinery for his own use shall have a
reasonable time after delivery for inspecting and testing it and
that, if it does not prove to be reasonably fit for the purposes for
which it was purchased, he may rescind. It further declares any
agreement contrary to its provisions to be against public policy
end void, thus preventing waiver of the warranty of fitness. In
a case involving the sale of a harvesting and threshing machine it
is held, in view of conditions in the State to which the. statute was
addressed,, that it does not violate the due process or the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 289-292.
62 N. D. 143; 241 N. W. 722, affirmed.

from a judgment affirming a judgment against
the thresher company, entered upon demurrer to its
.answer, in a suit against it to cancel promissory notes
following the rescission of a contract of sale.
APPEAL

Mr. Howard G. Fuller, with whom Mr. Matthew W.
Murphy was on the brief, for appellant.
The effect of the Act is to burden the business of appellant with serious financial loss, impair the value of
its commodities held or acquired for sale, and arbitrarily

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

deprive appellant of valuable rights of contract. It opens
to controversy and to possible repudiation by the buyer
the plain and unqualified terms of the sale, to which the
parties agreed. What article is or is not fit for the purpose of the purchase is made a jury question. As North
Dakota is exclusively- agricultural, a jury there will
naturally see the question of fitness from the standpoint
of the buyer. There is no standard of law to go by. The
question of fitness becomes a question whether the machine would harvest grain or thresh grain, under the
peculiar physical conditions which the buyer had in mind.
A single defective part could render the machine unfit
for the purpose of purchase, in the view of a jury, though
the part might, under reasonable contract, be replaced
almost instantly and without any loss to the buyer.
The evil sought to be remedied was not the financial
harm or loss caused by the sale of unfit commodities;
it -was the damage caused by fraudulent sales. A legislative declaration, or implication that. the fact of
unfitness is conclusive evidence of fraudulent, sale
is unreasonable and unconstitutional where, as in this
case, it would deprive- the seller of a right to disprove
fraud; or where the result is to convict and penalize a
person for a wrong of which he is blameless. Heiner v.
Donnan, 285 U. S. 312; Schlesingerv. Wisconsin, 270 U. S.
230; Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,219 U. S. 35.
This statute, as a remedy for the evil of fraud, is in'
appropriate, arbitrary and unreasonable. There is no
attempt to regulate or supervise sales; nor to prohibit
sales of unfit articles. The remedy given the buyer bears
no relation whatever to the particular evil at which the
statute is said by the state court to be aimed.
The purchaser here was a dealer in farm implements.
It is a fair inference that he was in no position to be
victimized. He contracted to waive all warranties and

ADVANCE-RUMELY CO. v. JACKSON.
283

285

Argument for Appellant.

remedies for their breach in express consideratioi of a
reduction of the purchase price.
An act of the legislature which gives to a buyer of a
commodity the full financial benefit- of a procedural
remedy for fraud, in the sale thereof, where there was no
fraud-taking from the seller the cost of this financial
gratuity'to the buyer-violates the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The discrimination of this law in favor of a certain
part of the class of persons who buy the described com:modities is unreasonable, and no state of facts can be
conceived to* sustain it. If, as explained by the court
below, persons who negligently or unwisely sign contracts
not for their best interests are the class intended to be
benefited, there is no rational theory for limiting that
class to those who buy these particular commodities; and
no reasonable basis for expanding that class to all persons
who buy any of these commodities. It is unreasonable
and discriminatory to impose the burden of the Act on
those only who sell such commodities to buyers who do not
preserve their right of warranty.
It is true the court below refers to the need of testing
harvesting machinery in harvesting time and threshing
machinery in threshing season. But in so far as this
statement alludes to a classification of persons affected by
the Act, it fails to furnish Any rational support for the
classification actually made.. This need of test -within a
limited space of time is related by the court only to harvesting and threshing machinery. The statement of the
necessities of the buyer is not claimed to have reference
to gas or oil-burning tractors or gas or steam engines."
The business of selling the commodities in question is
not so charged with a public use or interest that the
regulation in question is justified. New State Ice Co.-V.
Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Mr. William Lemke for appellee.
It is merely a necessary regulation to prevent fraud
and misrepresentation in the sale of that class of farm
machinery enumerated in Chapter 238 of the Laws of
1919. It does not deprive appellant of property, but
compels it to be honest with the purchaser and to sell him
only that class of machinery which is reasonably fitted
for the purpose for which it was purchased.
The Fourteenth Amendment has never been held a
protector of fraud to the extent of permitting highpressure salesmen to sell to farmers farm machinery not
reasonably fitted for the purpose for which it was purchased. To prevent one from perpetrating a fratid is
not to deprive him of property within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment. That Amendment does not
guarantee to a citizen the right to contract, either by
himself or agent, within his State, in violation of its laws.
Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648. Nor does it give
immunity from reasonable regulation to. safeguard the
people's interest. Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S.373; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13. The regulation
of trade, business or profession is within the domain of
the police power; such regulation may more or less restrict liberty or. impair the value of property, but if
reasonably calculated to produce the end contemplated
is constitutional. Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703;
Gundling v. Chicago; 177 U. S. 183; Nutting v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S.553. A statute prohibiting a stipulation against liability for negligence in the delivery of an
interstate message is not invalid as a deprivation of liberty to contract. Western Union v. Commercial Milling
Co., 218 U. S. 406.
MR. JusTIce BumLF]R delivered the opinion of the Court.
By this appeal we are called on to decide whether as
construed below a statute of North Dakota, c. 238, Laws

ADVANCE-RUMELY CO. v. JACKSON.
283

287

Opinion of the Court.

! 19, is repugnant to the due process or equal protection
clause Of the Fourteenth Amendment. It declares:
"Sec. 1. Reasonable Time to Discover Defects. Any
person, firm or corporation purchasing any gas or oilburning tractor, gas or steam engine, harvesting or threshing
machinery for their own use shall have a reasonable time
after delivery for the inspection and testing of the same,
and if it does not prove to be reasonably fit for the purpose for which it was purchased the purchaser may rescind the sale by giving notice within a reasonable time
after delivery to the parties from whom any such machinery was purchased, or the agent who negotiated the
sale or made delivery of such personal property or his
successor, and placing same at the disposal of the seller.
"Sec. 2. Provisions Contrary to Preceding Section Void.
Any provision in any written order or contract of sale, or
other contract which is contrary to any of the provisions
of this Act is hereby declared to be against public policy
and void."
The complaint of appellee, plaintiff below, shows the
following facts. August 13, 1928, defendant, in consideration of $1,360 to be paid by plaintiff according to his
three promissory notes given therefor, sold and delivered
to the latter a harvester-combine to be used for the cutting. and threshing in a single operation of grain raised by
him. Plaintiff undertook by means of the machine so
to cut and thresh his crop, but upon a fair trial and test he
found that it was defective and could not be used or made
fit to operate for the purpose. September 5, he rescinded
the sale in the manner prescribed by the statute. His
notes remained wholly unpaid. He prayed judgment that
defendant return them to him for cancellation. The
answer, asserting that the statute is repugnant to the due
process and equal protection clauses, does not deny the
complaint but avers that plaintiff gave defendant a written order by which he waived all warranties, express,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

implied or statutory, and unconditionally promised to pay
the price represented by the notes. Plaintiff demurred.
The trial court sustained the demurrer and, defendant
having elected to stand' on its answer, gave plaintiff judgment in accordance with the prayer of the. complaint.
The supre-me court affirmed. 62 N. D. 143; 241 N. W. 722:
On the facts alleged in the complaint, ยง 15 (1) of the.
Uniform Sales Act, Laws 1917, c. 202,-implied a warranty
by defendant that the machine was reasonably fit in a
single operation to cut and thresh plaintiff's grain. AllisChalmers Mfg. Co. v. Frank,'57N. D. 295, 299; 221 N. W.
75. But it left plaintiff free to waive such: warranty' and
to purchase'on the terms referred to in the answer. ยง 71.
Minneapolis Threshing Mach. Co. v. Hocking, 54 N. D.
559, 569; 209 N. W. 996.
The question is whether the challenged enactment of
1919 may prohibit such waives as contrary to' public
policy and void, and so limit the right of seller and purchaser to contract. While that right is a Part of the
liberty protectedby the due process clause, it is subject
to such restraints as the State in the exertion of its police
power reasonably may'put upon it. But freedom.of contract is the general rule and restraint the exception. 'The
exercise of legislative authority to abridge it can be justified only by the existence of exceptional circumstances.
Adkins v. Children.s Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, 545, 546
and cases cited. In determining the validity of a legislative declaration that a contract is contrary to public
policy, regard is to be had to the general rule that competent persons shall have the utmost liberty of contracting
and that it is only where enforcement conflicts with
dominant public interests that onewho has had the benefit of performance by the other party to a contract will be
permitted to aoid his own promise. Cf. Steele v. Drummond, 275 U. S. 199,205. Twin City Co. v. HardingGlass
Co., 283 U. S. 353, 356.

ADVANCELRUMELY CO. v. JACKSON.
283

Opinion of the Court.

The object sought to be attained by the statute under
consideration is to protect farmers in an agricultural State
against losses from investments in important machines
that are not fit for the purposes for which they are purchased and .to guard against crop losses likely to result
from reliance upon such machines. It applies only to
sales madeto purchasers requiring for their own use the
relatively complicated and costly implements referred to
in ยง 1. These are used on farms producing grain, and the
raising of such crops is North Dakota's principal industry.
Enormous. quantities of farm machinery are required in
that. State, and expenditures therefor constitute a large
part of the total investment in farm land and equipment.
Most, if not all, of the tractors, engines, harvesters and
threshers referred to are made outside North Dakota by
a few manufacturers who, through their agents or dealers,
sell -them directly to farmers. Forms of sales contracts
generally used are prepared by sellers and, as pointed out
in the opinion of the state supreme court, the tendency has
been to'restrict the rights of purchasers and to lessen the
liability of sellers. Such machines can properly be tested
only during seasons in which they are used and, especially
in the case of harvester and thresher combines, these periods are short. The machine sold to plaintiff is a gas and
oil-burning harvester and thresher combine. Machines
ddsigned for such purposes are necessarily complex and
even under favorable cofiditio.s their effective use requires skill, experience and resourcefulness on the part of
operators. In determining whether they are reasonably
suitable and fit for the purposes intended, there is involved
a consideration of the kind and condition of the crops to
be harvested, the periods duriig which they remain recoverable after becoming sufficiently ripe, and dry to be
contemporaneously cut and threshed, the amount and
kind of weeds and other foreign vegetation growing with
the grain, the topography of the fields, and the rainfall,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

dew and humidity. Such combines have not been long,
known or much used in the grain-raising Northwest, and
undoubtedly there are ample grounds for a legislative
finding that the farmers of North Dakota as a class are
not sufficiently familiar with them to be able, without
actual test, to form an intelligent opinion as to their fitness to cut and thresh in a single operation or whether they
safely may be regarded as dependable for use on their
farms. If they were relied on generally in that State and
should fail in the fields, the resulting losses would be of
such magnitude and public concern as to warrant the
adoption of measures calculated to guard against them.
The regulation imposed seems well calculated to effect
the purposes sought to be attained. The evils aimed at
do not necessarily result from misrepresentation or any
fraud on the part of sellers, and at least one of the purposes of the legislation is to lessen losses resulting from
purchasers' lack of capacity, without opportunity for
inspection and trial, to decide whether the machines are
suitable. The statute prevents waiver of the warranty of
fitness implied by the state law. Such warranties tend to
festrain manufacturers from selling unfit or defective machines and also from selling any-even those of appropriate design and construction for operation in some
regions-for use in places or under conditions not permitting effective service. And the right of inspection,
test and rescission that the statute assures to purchasers
enables them,-free from peril of serious mistakes, deliberately to consider whther such machines are reasonably
suitable or fit for the purposes for which they want to use
them. There is nothing in this case to suggest that, under
the guise of permissible regulation, the State unreasonably deprives sellers of such machines of their right freely
to contract or that in its practical operation the statute
arbitrarily burdens their business. Burns Baking Co. v.
Bryan, 264 U. S. 504. Weaver v. Patmer Bros. Co., 270

SUN OIL CO. v. DALZELL TOWING CO.
283

291

Syllabus.

U. S. 402. The State, in, order to ameliorate the evils
found incident to waivers of implied warranties of fitness,
merely declares that such agreements in respect of the
sale of the designated machines are contrary to public
policy and holds the parties to the just and reasonable
rule prescribed by ยง 15 (1) of the Sales Act. Upon the
question of due process more need not be said.
The character of the'machines, the need of tests to
determine their fitness, the serious losses that ensue if in
actual use they prove unfit, and the other considerations
alluded to plainly warrant the classification and special
regulation of.sales prescribed by the statute.
We find no*substantial support for the contention that
the statute complained of violates the due process or equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Frisbie
v. United States; 157 U. S. 160, 165. Orient Insurance
Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, 563, et seq. Patterson v.
Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169, 173. Whitfield v. Aetna
Ins. Co., 205 U. S. 489, 495. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v,
"McGuire,-219 U. S. 549, 564, et seq. National Union
Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U..S. 71.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SToNE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concur

in the result.
SUN OIL CO. v. DALZELL TOWING CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 38.

Argued November 16, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. A towage company, in performing a contract to assist a vessel
propelled by her own power and manned by her officers and crew,
is neither commaon carrier nor bailee, and is not subject to the rule
that prevents common carriers, and others under like duty to
serve the public, from escaping by agreement liability for damage
caused by their negligence. P. 294.

