STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

pleadings or discussed in either of the opinions delivered
in the District Court. 1 F. Supp. 134. It was not
mentioned in the Jurisdictional Statement filed inder
Rule 12 or in the briefs of the parties filed here. So far
as appears, all the members of the lower court and both
parties have assumed that § 3 is controlling.

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 27. Argued October 21, 1932.-Decided October 24, 1932.
A bill in equity to restrain the collection of state taxes under a statute
alleged to violate the Federal Constitution should not be dismissed
on bill .and answer upon the ground that the statute affords an
adequate legal remedy by payment under protest and action to
recover, when the allegations of the bill put in doubt whether, if
that remedy were pursued and the claim allowed, satisfaction of it
could be secured certainly and within a reasonable time out of the
fund designated by otatute as the source of such payments. - P. 10.
Reversed.

These were four suits by retail merchants'seeking to
enjoin collection of taxes on gross sales, measured by
progressively increasing rates. All the bills -invoked the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and in two of them it was claimed, also, that
the tax operated as a direct burden on interstate commerce. By stipulation the cases were heard together and
disposed of -by one opinion of the three-judge District
Court. The cases were treated as submitted upon bill
and answer as well as upon plaintiffs' motion for prelim'Together with No. 28, Levy et al. v. Lewis et al., and No. 29, J. C.
Penney Co. v. Same, both from the Western District of Kentucky,
and No.'30, Kroger Grocery & Baking Co. v. Same, from the Eastern
District.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

inary injunctions and defendants' motions to dismiss; and
all suits were dismissed. The tenth section of the Ken-

tucky 2statute, referred to in the court's opinion, is copied
below.
Mr. Robert S. Marx, with whom Messrs. John C.
Doolan, Frank E.

Wood, Harry Kasfir, and James W.

Stites were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. S. H. Brown, Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, .withwhom Messrs. Bailey P. Wootton, Attorney
General, FrancisM. Burke, Assistant Attorney General,
and Leslie W. Morris were on the brief, for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

After. interlocutory injunction had been granted, these
cases went respectively to final hearing upon motions to
dismiss the bills of complaint, and these were dismissed
solely upon the ground that plaintiffs had an adequate
remedy at law. The Court is of the opinion that the decision cannot be sustained merely upon the face of the
2" § 10. No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or
delay' the collection or payment of the tax herein imposed upon any
ground whatever, but the aggrieved taxpayer shall pay the tax as and
when due, and if paid under protest may at any time within two years
from the date of such payment sue the Auditor of Public Accounts in
an action at law to recover the tax so paid, with legal interest thereon,
from the date of payment. If it is finally determined that said tax,
or any part thereof, was wrongfully collected for any reason, it shall
be the duty of the Auditor of Public Accounts then in office to.issue
his warrant on the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Kentucky for
the amount of such tax so adjudged to have been wrongfully collected,
together with interest thereon, and the Treasurer shall pay same out
of the General Fund of the State. A separate suit need not be filed
for each separate payment made by any taxpayer, but a recovery
may be had in one suit for as many payments as may have been
made, and which are not-barred by the limitation of two years herein
imposed."

STEWART DRY GOODS CO. v. LEWIS.
9

Opinidn of the Court.

statute invoked (Kentucky'Acts. of 1930, c. 149, § 10) in
view of the allegations of the bills of complaint that the
only remedy provided is to obtain warrants -upon the General Fund of the State in the -hands of the State Treasurer
to be paid if and when funds are available for the payment
of such warrants in the usual and orderly course; that
there are now outstanding many such warrants drawn by
the Auditor of Public Accounts upon the General Fund
in the hands of the State Treasurer, which have been outstanding since June, 1927, and cannot be collected by*the
owners or holders for lack of funds in the Treasury; and
that there were at the time of the beginning of these suits
outstanding warrants aggregating $9,880,502.76 drawn by
the Auditor of Public Accdunts upon the State Treasurer,
presented for payment, but not paid for lack of funds.
(See State Budget Commn. v. Lebus, 244 Ky. 700, 703,
714; 51 S.W. (2d) 965, as to warrants outstanding.) Defendants' answers denied the above-mentioned allegations,
but it does not appear that there has been a hearing upon
evidence of the issue tendered and no findings of fact upon
the ubject have been made by the courts below.
The decrees are reversed and the causes remanded to the
District Courts, of three judges, for final hearing upon the
merits, without prejudice to a determination upon evidence with respect to the questions of the status of outstanding warrants upon the General Fund in the State
Treasury, and whether warrants of the sort contemplated
by § 10 of the Act in question are accorded preference in
payment over other warrants, and the basis, if 'any, for
the assurance that such preference will be continued so
that in the event of actions by the plaintiffs at law under
§ 10 they would be afforded a certain, reasonably prompt
and efficacious remedy. Davis v. Wakelee, 156 U. S. 680,
688; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Daughton, 262 U. S.
413, 426.

