OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

that the standards of legal duty must be the same .by
land and sea. Congress meant no more than this, that
the duty must be legal, i. e., imposed by law; that it shall
have been imposed for the benefit of the seaman, and for
the promotion of his health or safety; and that the
negligent omission to fulfill it shall have resulted in damage to his person. When this, concurrence of duty, of
negligence and of personal injury is made out, the seaman's remedy is to be the same as if a like duty had been
imposed'by law upon carriers by rail.
The Court of Appeals in its reversal of the District
Court assumed without deciding that the care of the seaman had been negligent and that there was a causal
relation between the negligence and the death. The
correctness of that assumption is challenged by counsel
,for the shipowner. These issues of fact being still open
and undecided should be disposed of by the court below.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the Court of Appeals for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
STERLING, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS, ET AI. v. CONSTANTIN ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 11 and 453. Argued November 15, 16, 1932.-Decided Decem-

ber 12, 1932.
1. The Governor of a State is subject to the process of the federal
"courts for the relief of private persons when by his acts under color

of state authority he invades rights secured to them by the Federal
Constitution. P. 393.
2. The suit is not a suit against the State. Id.
3. In a suit to restrain a state official from violating federal constitutional rights by action under color of state law, the fact that it may
appear that, he exceeded his authority under that law does not
deprive the District Court of jurisdiction. Id.

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Syllabus.

4. In a suit to restrain a state official from invading property rights
under color of state constitutional and statutory provisions, where
the validity of such provisions, if construed to authorize' the acts
complained of, is challenged by the plaintiff under the Federal Constitution, the application for an injunction is properly heard by the
District Court of three judges. P. 393.
5. In such a case, the jurisdiction of the three judge District Court,
and of this Court on appeal from a decree of injunction, extends to
every question involved, whether of state or of federal law, and
enables the court to rest its judgment on the decision of such of the
questions as in its opinion effectively dispose of the case. P. 393.
6. Whether or not the constitution and laws of Texas purport to
authorize the acts of the Governor complained of in this case, is
not decided. In disposing of the federal question, such authority
is assumed .to have existed. P. 394.
7. The right of a lessee of oil land to extract oil pursuant to his lease,
subject to reasonable regulation by the State in the exercise of its
power to prevent unnecessary loss, 'destruction and. waste, is protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 396.
8. The existence of facts justifying an exertion of military power by
the Governor of a State is subject to judicial inquiry when there
is a substantial showing that such exertion has overridden private
rights secured by the Federal Constitution. P. 398.
9. The Governor of Texas proclaimed "martial law's over several
oil-producing counties of tle State, declaring that insurrection and
riot beyond civil control existed there, due to wasteful production
of oil by some of the operators in defiance of the state conservation
law and to violent public feeling thereby excited. After shutting
down all of the wells by military force, he permitted the state commission that administers the conservation law to fix the limit of production, and production was resumed accordingly; but when some of
the operators, the plaintiffs in this case, objecting to that limit as
infringing their property rights under the Fourteenth Amendment,
obtained a restraining order in a suit against the commission in the
federal court, he took military control of all of the wells and restricted production still further. Held:
(1) The question whether an exigency existed justifying such interference with the plaintiffs' rights was not settled exclusively by
the Governor's acts and declarations but was subject to judicial
inquiry and determination. Pp. 398-403.
(2) The facts of the situation (set forth in the opinion) show no
such exigency, and the interference was properly enjoined. Id.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

287 U.S.

10. The fact that a violation of private rights by a state Governor is
attributable to a military order does not limit the relief to proceedings calling him to account after the passing of the alleged emergency on which he claims to have acted; an injunction will be
granted if essential for protection of the injured party. P. 403.
11. The general language of an opinion must be taken in connection
with the point actually decided,--referring to Moyer v. Peabody,
212 U. S. 78. P. 400.
12. Appeal from an order granting an interlocutory injunction will be
dismissed when there is also an appeal .from a final decree making
the injunction permanent. P. 386.
No. 11 dismissed; No. 453 affirmed.

APPEALS from an order of interlocutory injunction
granted by a three-judge District Court, restraining the
Governor and certain military officials of Texas from enforcing military orders restricting the production of plaintiffs' oil wells, and from a final-decree of the same court
making the injunction permanent. The opinion of the
court below is reported in 57 F. (2d) 227.

Messrs. E. F. Smith and Dan Moody, with whom Mr.
Paul D. Page, Jr.] was on the brief, for appellants.
If the federal Constitution and laws vest in the President the power to declare "martial law" (see dissenting
opinion of Chief Justice Chase in Ex parte Milligan, 4
Wall. 2, 132), then the like provisions of the constitution
and laws of Texas confer a similar power upon the
Governor.
While the power is necessarily an overriding one, since
its use is intended to be exercised in times of peril for the
preservation of the government, its extent and the danger
of its abuse do not argue against its existence. Martin v.
Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 32; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1.,
In re Moyer, 35 Colo. 159, sustains the position that the
constitution and statutes of Texas empower the Goyernor
to .proclaim "martial law." See also Moyer v. Peabody,
212 U. S. 78.

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Argument for Appellants.

Under "martial law" the Governor may call out the
troops; may order them to kill persons who resist and may.
cause offenders and insurrectionists to be restrained of
their liberty.- Regardless of whether in the cases last
cited the proclamation of the Governor of Colorado established a state of "martial law" in name, it appears from
the opinion of this Court and from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Colorado, that the Governor had a power
under his proclamation that could be exercised by him
only under "martial law." Cf. Ex parte McDonald, 49
Mont. 454. See United States v. Wolters, 268 Fed. 69.
Throughout the years the several constitutions of Texas
have each provided that the Chief Executive should,
among other things, be Commander-in-Chief of the military forces of the State, and have enjoined upon him the
responsibility of causing the laws to be executed. It was
intended that this government should at all times be able
to enforce- its laws, continue its existence as an organized
government, and have the power to accomplish both in the
face of vicious lawlessness. This necessary and inherent
power of self defense has been reposed in the Chief Executive by the constitution and statutes. If not there, it
exists only in the people; and so to hold would be to say
that in the organization of the government of Texas-a
border State-no provision was made for the common
defense.
If the term "martial law" arouse prejudice or evoke
the spectre of usurpation, then the term may be abandoned, and yet the constitution and statutes are sufficient
to repose in the Governor authority to use the military
forces to repel invasion and suppress insurrection; and to
effect that end he may cause persolns to be restrained of
their liberty and, where necessary, cause life or property
to be taken.
The courts will not in injunction proceedings inquire
into the sufficiency of the facts to sustain the Governor's

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

287 U.S.

declaration that an insurrection exists, or into the motive
of the Governor in making the declaration. Moyer v.
Peabody, 212 U. S. 78; Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19;
Luther v. Borden,. 7 How. 1; Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall.
493; Keely v. Sanders, 99 U. S. 441; Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch 137; 2 Story, Const., p. 110, 2d ed.; Consolidated
Coal & Coke Co. v. Beale, 282 Fed. 934; In re Moyer,
35 Colo. 159; Chapin v. Ferry, 3 Wash. 386; Mayes v.
Brown, 71 W. Va. 519; Ex parte Jones, 71 W. Va. 567;
In re Boyle, 6 Idaho 609; Franksv. Smith, 142 Ky. 232;
2 Story, Const., § 1211, 2d ed.
To argue that the courts have the power so to inquire
is to argue out of the state constitution the provision
separating the powers of government into departments.
And this applies as well to the federal courts as to the
courts of Texas; for the guaranitee of republican form of
government to every State imposes a duty upon the Congress and the President and not upon the judiciary.
"Martial law " is an exercise of the police power;
to judge of the need for it, is an executive prerogative. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was not -designed to interfere with the power of the
State to protect the lives, liberties and properties of its
citizens. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Pacific Gas
& Elec. Co. v. Police, 251 U. S. 22; Compagnie v. Louisiana, 186 U. S. 380.
Any attempt of the courts to control the manner in
which the Governor uses the military forces in the face
of an emergency brought about by insurrection would be
a clear invasion by one department of fields properly
belonging to another coirdinate department. Franks
v. Smith, 142 Ky. 232; Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19;
Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall. 493; Burnquist v. Minnesota,
168 N. -W. 634; Pomeroy, Const. L., 1870 ed., p. 483;
United States v. Fischer,280 Fed. 208.

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Argument for Appellantv

If the Executive is vested with the discretion to determine the exigency requiring the declaration of "martial
law," it logically follows that the Executive together with
the officers in charge of his military forces are to determine

the use of soldiers that is necessary to make the proclamation effective. There may be a responsibility after
the emergency has passed for a wrongful -decision and an
unlawful order and a consequent invasion of a private

right. Hartranft'sAppeal, 85 Pa. St. 433.
If the Executive act as a tyrant or despot, he is, as suggested in some of the cases, subject to impeachment. If
his use of the power..destroy a republican government,
the United States has power to restore it. Moyer v.
Peabody, 212 U. S.78; In re Boyle, 6 Idaho 609; Wadsworth v. Shortall, 206 Pa. St. 165; Mayes v. Brown, 71
W. Va. 519.
The Executive must have the authority to make his
proclamation effective. The courts have said that he
may make the ordinary use of troops. The expression
certainly implies that he may use his troops to go to the
fountain head of the insurrection and suppress the insurrection by removing its cause. If the Executive determined, as in this case, that the cause of the trouble was
the operation of oil wells, he would have power to end the
insurrection by removing its cause through controlling the
operation of the wells as in his judgment the situation
might require.
The decision of the Governor that the taking of private
property is necessary to prevent impending or suppress
existing insurrection etc., is conclusive. A taking under
such circumstances is with due process of law. Power to
do a thing necessarily implies power to do all things
necessary to d the principal thing. Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115; United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623.
The power to take private property, when necessary; of

384

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1932.
. Argument for Appellants.

287 U.S.

course, implies authority to determine when the taking is
necessary. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19. While due
process of. law in taking property may not be due process
in taking life or liberty, it is certainly true that due
process in taking life or liberty suffices as due process to
take property. Moyer v. Peabody, 148 Fed. 870.
The taking of property where insurrection and imminent danger of insurrection exist, in order to suppress and
head off insurrection, is not a taking where a hearing is
demanded by due process. A taking by the Executive is
an implied promise upon his part that the State will make
proper compensation, and that the State is morally bound
at some later date to pay to the private individual the
reasonable value of his property taken during the emergency.
Mitchell v. Harmony, 13"How. 115, and United States v.
Russell, 13 Wall. 623, are not, when analyzed, against the
proposition that the Governor is the sole and exclusive
judge of the necessity for taking.: They are authority for
saying that a verdict in this case, holding the appellants
liable in damages, would not be disturbed upon appeal, but
nlot for restraining their acts by injunction.
If the GovernOr, exercising his constitutional discretion,
found it necessary to control the production from appellees' oil wells in order to make his proclamation effective,;
this finding and the subsequent control of the appellees'
oil wells were consistent with due process of law. Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497; Weimer v. Bunbury,
30 Mich. 201.
The various proclamations and orders issued by the
Governor and his testimony upon the trial are the evidence
that the finding was made .and shoiv that a finding of
necessity was made.
The courts may call upon him later, after the emergency, to account for what he has done, (we are not considering tha. question or attempting to express a view

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

385

Argument for Appellees.

upon it,) but while the emergency lasts they can not interpose -their judgment and discretion -where the law has
made it the duty of the executive to use his judgment
and discretion. Mississippi v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475;
Louisianav. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627.
The theory that under declaration of martial law the
soldiers are called out to act as civil officers with no
greater power than civil officers is erroneous.
Distinguishing: Ex parte MlIigan, 4 Wall. 2. In the
case at bar a competent authority had declared a defined
area to be in a state of insurrection and by pioclamation
had instituted "martial law." United States v. Adams,
26 F. (2d) 141; Ex parte Lavinder, 108 S.E. 428.
Messrs. Joseph W: Bailey, Jr., and Luther Nickels for
appellees.
The trial court, expressly or impliedly, found: First,
that there was no "insuriection" or "riot," in fact, at
the time of the declaration of martial law; second, that
there was not at any time warrant for alleged belief of the
Governor that riot or insurrection would ensue if oil production were not restricted; third, that the courts, state
and national, were at all times open and their processes
at all times unobstructed, "the refusal of defendant
Wolters to observe the injunction in this case" being the
only instance wherein there has been interference with
the !'civil authorities or courts . . .or their processes."
The so-called executive proclamations, the appellants'
pleading, and the -proof amply warrant such findings.
The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
precludes existence of an "irrebuttable presumption " in
favor of state action or action of state officers.
The constitution and statutes of Texas do not confer
upon the Governor of the State the powver to declare or
maintain "martial law" or to do or cause to be done the
acts of which complaint is made.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

If any statute of Texas undertakes to confer any such
authority; it is Void because it conflicts with the constitution of Texas and with the contract, due process, and
equal protection clauses and other provisions of the Federal Constitution.
Even if the constitution or statutes of the State under,take to ccinfer such authority, the acts of the Governor
and his subordinates were and are arbitrary, capricious,
Qppressive- and unjust, in violation of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. CHimF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The District Court, composed of three judges (U. S. C.,
Tit. 28, § 380), granted an interlocutory injunction restraining the appellants, Ross S. Sterling, Governor of the
State of Texas, W. W. Sterling, Adjutant General of the
State, and Jacob F. Wolters, Brigadier General of the
Texas National Guard, from enforcing their military or
executive orders regulating or restricting the production
of oil from complainants' wells and from interfering in
any manner"9 with the lawful production of oil from complainants'. property." 57 F. (2d) 227, By stipulation,
causes of action set forth in the amended bill of complaint
against these defendants and others were severed and the
suit proceeded to trial upon the merits against these defendants separately and was submitted upon the pleadings and the evidence taken on the application for the
interlocutory injunction.. The court entered final judgment making the interlocutory injunction permanent,
and appeals have been taken to this Court from both ihe
interlocutory order and the final judgment. As the case
is now here on the latter appeal (No. 453), the appeal
from the interlocutory order (No. 11) will be dismissed.
Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Commission, 286
U. S. 210, 224.

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion of. the Court.

Complainants, as owners of interests in oil and gas
leaseholds, originally brought the suit,, on October 13,
1931, against members of the Railroad Commission 'of
Texas, the Attorney General of the State, Brigadier General Volters, and others, to restrain the enforcement of
order. of the Commission limiting the production of' oil.
These orders were alleged to be arbitrary and illegal, as
having been made in violation of the statutes of Texas
and i4 pursuance of a conspiracy in the interest of prices,
and as operating to deprive complainants of their property without due process of law contrary to both the State
and the Federal constitutions.. The District Judge set
the application for preliminary injunction for hearing on
October 28, 1931, before a specially constituted court of
three judges, and meanwhile made a temporary order restraining the defendants from limiting. comaplainants'
production below 5,000 barrels per well. 57 F. (2d) p.
229. The defendants who were members of the Railroad
Commission accordingly ceased their attempt to enforce
the orders thus challenged.
Preyiously, on August 16, 1931, Governor Sterling had
issued a proclamation stating that certain counties (in
which complainants' properties were located)' were in
"a state of insurrection, tumult, riot, and a breach of
the peace," and declaring "martial law" in that territory.
The Governor directed Brigadier General Wolters to
assume supreme command of the situation and to take
such steps as he might deem necesary in order "to enforce
and uphold the majesty of the law," subject to the orders
of the Governor as Commander in Chief, as given
through the Adjutant General. From that, time, General Wolters acted as "commanding officer of said
military district."
When the District Court made its temporary .restraining order in this suit, as above stated, Governor Sterling,
learning that the .orders made by the Railroad Commis-

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

sion could no longer be enforced, issued his oral and
written orders to General Wolters to limit-the production
of oil in the described military district to 165 barrels
per well per day. This was the limit fixed by the Commission's order of October 10th the enforcement of
which was subject to the restraining order. On October
28th, the Governor made the limit 150 barrels and on
November 6th, 125 barrels. These orders were enforced
by General Wolters, and contempt proceedings were
brought against him.
On November 20, 1931, by leave of the District Court,
complainants filed an amended bill making Governor
Sterling and W. W. Sterling, Adjutant General, parties
* to the suit and alleging that the above mentioned military
and executive orders limiting production were without
justification in law or in fact, were arbitrary and capricious, and were repugfiant to the State and Federal constitutions. Complainants alleged that there had been no
request by the civil authorities for the use of the military
forces; that all courts in said are'a were "open and transacting their ordinary business"; that there were" no
armed bodies of civilians in said area " nor "any bodies
of men threatening bloodshed, violence or destruction ";
but that, on the contrary, "the citizens in said community
are in a quiet, peaceable condition and amenable and
obedient to any process which might be served upon
them." Defendants, Governor Sterling, Adjutant General Sterling, and General Wolters, answered the bill setting forth the executive proclamation and orders, and
the declaration of martial law, and asserting the validity
'of the acts assailed. By a supplemental petition, in
response to the answer, complainants denied that the
Governor, under the constitution and statutes of the
State, could lawfully exercise the, authority he had assumed, and specifically alleged that if any statute of the
State conferred such authority it contravened stated pro-

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion of the Court.

visions of the Constitution of the State and the due
process and equal protection clauses of. the Fourteenth
Amendment. At the time of the hearing of the appli-.
cation for preliminary injunction, it appeared that the
executive orders had further limited the complainants'
production to 100 barrels per day. 57 F. (2d) p. 229.
Upon that application, the District Court received the
evidence submitted by both parties, and considering it to
be "without substantial conflict," stated that it established the following facts:
In August, 1931, the Legislature of Texas passed an
amended oil and conservation act. Chap. 26, Vernon's
Ann. Civ. St. Texas, Arts., 6008, 6014, 6029, 6032, 6036,
6049c. The Governor in issuing his proclamation of August 16th recited the provisions of the constitution and
statutes of Texas for the conservation of oil and gas and
the existence in the East Texas oil field, the territory in
question, of an organized group of oil and gas producers
who were said to be in a state of insurrection against the
conservation laws; that the civil officers did not have a
sufficient force to compel them to obey; that by reason
of their reckless production enormous phygical waste was
being created; that this condition had brought about such
a state of public feeling that if the state government
could not protect the public's interest they would take
the law into their own hands; that this condition had
caused threats of acts of violence; that it was necessary
to give the Railroad Commission time to have hearings
and promulgate proper orders to put the law into force;
that a state of "insurrection, tumult, riot and breach of
the peace existed in the defined area ' and that there was
"serious danger threatening to citizens and property, not
only there, but in other oil producing areas of the State ";
and that it was necessary "that the reckless and illegal
exploitation" should be stopped until such time as the
said resources might be properly conserved and developed

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

under the protection of the civil authorities. The troops
were then called out and the oil wells were shut down.
In September, after the Commission had made its order
limiting production, while the proclamation of martial
law was not rescinded nor the troops entirely withdrawn,
the military occupation in force ended. The wells were
.opened and continued to produce daily under the order of
the Railroad Commission. General Wolters, with the assistance of the "Rangers," the civil officers of the community, and "the few military still remaining in the
field," and in aid of the Commission, patrolled the territory to see that its orders were complied with; that from
time to time the Commission, sometimes with the approval, and. sometimes with the disapproval, of the Governor made its orders further limiting production, and
these orders were obeyed.
The District Court also found that after the restraining order against the Commission had been issued in
this suit, the defendants, Governor Sterling and General
Wolters, "determined not to brook court irterference with
the program of restricted production which they determined to continue." Acting "in the real, though mistaken, belief that the federal court, while competent as
to the Commission, was during the continuance of the proclaimed state of war without jurisdiction over their action," by virtue of the claim, which the District Court
found to be wholly without support in the evidence, "that
war conditions were prevailing in the field, and that military necessity required the action," they "ousted the
Commission-from the fixing of and superintendence over
the daily production allowed, and have since controlled
production by purported military orders."
As to the actual conditions in the area-affected by these
orders the District Court made the following finding:
"It was conceded that at no time has there been any
actual uprising in the territory. At no time has any mili-

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion of the Court.

tary force been exerteql to put riots or mobs down. At
no time, except in the refusal" of defendant Wolters to
.observe the injunction in this case,, have the civil authorities or courts been interferedwith or their processes made
impotent. Though it -was testified to by defendants that
from reports which came to them they believed that, if
plaintiffs' wells were not shut in, there would be dynamiting of property in the oil fields, and efforts to close them
and any others which opened by violence, and that, if
that occurred, there would be general trouble in the field,
no evidence of any dynamite having been used, or show
of violence practiced or actually attempted, or even
threatened against any specific property in the field, was
offered. We find, therefore, that not only was there never
any actual .riot, tumult, or insurrection, which would create a state of war existing in the field, but that, if all of
the conditions had come to pass, they would have resulted
merely in breaches of the peace to be suppressed, by the
militia as a civil force, and not at all in,
a condition constituting, or.even remotely resembling, a state of war."
57 F. (2d) p. 231.
Referring to the testimony of Governor Sterling and
General Wolters that the orders had not been issued for
the purpose of affecting prices, nor even per se to limit
production, but "as acts of military necessity to suppress
actually threatened war" as they believed from reports
brought to them that "unless they kept the production
of oil down to within 400,000.barrels, a warlike iot and
insurrection, in fact a state of wur, would ensue," the
District Court said:
"We find no warrant in the evidence for such belief.
Looking at it in the light most favorable to defendants'
contention, it presents nothing more than threats of violence or breaches of the peace. The testimony showed
that martial law had not ousted the commission 'from
making and enforcing rules regulating conservation, ex-

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

cept alone as to production from the field.

287 U.S.
One of their

witnesses testified: 'Now the Governor with his military
representatives has taken over the proration end but the
conservation end is still with the Commission.' The evidence shows no insurrection nor riot, in fact, existing at
any time in the territory, no closure of the courts, no
failure of civil authorities. It shows that at no time has
there been in fact any condition resembling a state of war,
and that, unless the Governor may by proclamation create
an irrebuttable presumption that a state of war exists, the
actions of the Governor and his staff may not be justified
on the ground of military necessity." Id.
Having thus found the facts, the District Court, main-

taining its jurisdiction, examined the provisions of the
constitution and statutes of the State to ascertain
whether they had conferred upon the Governor the power
he had assumed to -exercise. The court concluded that
not only was no such affirmative authority confewred but
that express provisions of the constitution withheld such
power; that when the Governor calls out the troops of
Texas, it is not as a military but as a civil officer; that
their powerg and duties are derived from the civil law;
and that at no time and under no conditions are their
actions above court review. The court held that, under
the constitution of Texas, courts may not be closed or
their processes interfered with by military orders, that
courts cannot be ousted by the agencies detailed to aid
them, and that their functions cannot be transferred to
tribunals unknown to the constitution. In this view
the court decided that appellants "without warrant of
law " had been depriving complainants of their undoubted
right .to operate their own properties in a prudent and
reasonable 'way, in accordance with the laws of the State.
57 F. (2d) pp. 236-1241. The final judgment, entered
pursuant to the stipulation of the parties and upon the
same record, rests upon the same findings and conclusions.

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion of the Court.

Appellants contend (1) that the Governor has power
to declare martial law; (2) that courts may.not review
-the sufficiency of facts upon which martial law is declared;
(3) that courts may not control by injunction the means
of enforcing martial law; and (4) that the finding of
the Governor of necessity to take property is due process
of law.
First. The District Court had jurisdiction. The suit
is not against the State. The applicable principle is that
where state officials, purporting to act under state authority, invade rights secured by the Federal Constitution,
-they are subject to the process of the federal courts in
order that the persons injured may have appropriate
relief. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.123, 155, 156; Home
Telephone &6Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S.278,
292, 293; Truax .v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 37, 38; Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248 U. S.453, 456; Terrace v.Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214. The Governor of the State,
in this respect, is in no different position from 'that of
other state officials. See Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203,
210, 233; ContinentalBaking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U. S.
352; Binford v. McLeaish, 284 U. S. 598; 52 F. (2d)
151, 152; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374. Nor does
the fact that it may appear that the state officer in such
a-case, while acting under color of state law, has exceeded
the authority conferred by the State, deprive the court
of jurisdiction. Iowa-Des.Moines Bank v. Bennett, 284
U. S.239, 246; Fidelity & Deposit Co.v. Tafoya, 270 U. S.
426, 434.
As the validity of provisions of the state constitution
and statutes, if they could be deemed to authorize the
action of the Governor, was challenged, the application
for 'injunction was properly heard by three judges. St,atton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 282 U. S. 10. The
jurisdiction of the District Court so constituted, anid of
this Court upon appeal, extends to dvery question involved, whether of state or federal law, and enables the

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

court to rest its judgment on the decision of such of the
questions as in its opinion effectively dispose of the case.
Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 213 U. S. 175, 191;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co.v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298,
303; Davis v. Wallace, 257 U. S. 478, 482; Waggoner Estate v. Wichita County, 273 U. S. 113, 116.
Second. Appellants rely upon Article IV, §§ 1, 7 and 10
of the state constitution, and Articles 5778, 5830, 5834
and 5889 of the Revised Civil Statutes of the State, 1925.
The provisions of the state constitution make the Governor the Chief Executive Officer of the State 'and Commander in Chief of its military forces, with "power to
call forth the militia to execute the laws of the State, to
suppress insurrections, repel invasions, and protect the
frontier." The Governor "shall cause the laws to be
faithfully executed." The statutes cited are set forth in
the margin.1
"'Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925:
"Art. 5778. The Governor shall have power in the case of insurrection, invasion, tumult, riot or breach of peace, or imminent danger
thereof, to order-into the actie service of this State any-part of the
militia that he may deem proper.
"Art. 5830. When an invasion of, or aniinsurrection in, this State
is made or threaten.ed or when the Governor may deem it necessary
for the enforcement of the laws of this State, he shall call forth the
active militia or any 'part thereof to repel, suppress, or enforce the
same, and if the number available is insufficient he shall order out
such part of the reserve militia as he may deem necessary.
"Art. 5834. The Governor may oider the active militia, or any
part thereof, to assist the civil authorities in guarding the prisoners,
or in conveying prisoners. from and to any point in this State, or dis"
charging other duties in connection with the execution of the law as
ihe public interest or safety at any time may require.
"Art, 5889. Whenever any portion of the military forces of this
State is employed in aid of the civil authority, the Governor, if in his
judgment the maintenance of law and order will thereby be promoted,
may, by proclamation, declare the county or city in which the troops
are serving, or any special portion thereof, to be- in a state of.
insurrection."'

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
878

Opinion of the Court.

In support of'the conclusion of the court below that
the Governor did not have authority as extensive as that
asserted in this case, appellees invoke the provisions of the
Bill of Rights (Article I) of the state constitution as follows:
See. 12. The writ of habeas corpus is a writ of right,
and shall never be suspended .
"Sec. 24. The military shall at all times be subordinate
to the civil"authority.
"Sec.' 28. No power of suspending laws in this State
shall be exercised except by he. Legislature.
"Sec. 29. To guard against transgressions of the high
powers herein delegated, we declare that everything in
this' Bill of Rights' is excepted out of the general powers
of the government and shall forever remain inviolate, and
all laws contrary thereto, or to the following provisions,
shall be void."
Appellees contend that the subsequent Articles of the
Constitution are to be construed in harmony with these
provisions of the Bill of Rights, and that these show
clearly that it was not the intention of the people of
Texas to confer upon the Governor the authority to declare martial law, but only to suppress insurrections, to
repel invasions and to afford the protection necessary to
preserve the peace, acting in aid, and not in subversion,
of the civil authority and of the jurisdiction of the courts.
These provisions, said the District Court, "were written
.into the fundamental law as direct inhibitions upon the
executive, by men who had suffered under the imposition
of martial law, with its suspension of civil authority, and
the ousting of the courts during reconstruction in Texas."
"In every convention," said the court, "hi eyery gathering assembled, protesting the suppression of free speech,
the interference with the processes, the judgments, the
decrees of courts, these men had denounced martial
tyranny, and sought relief against it, and, when they met.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

to adopt the constitution of 1876 which still obtains, they
determined to, and they did, so write the fundamental
law that such deprivations of liberty might never again
occur." 57 F. (2d) p. 237.
While we recognize the force of these observations, and
the question of the interpretation of the provisions of the
state constitution is before us, it is still a matter of local
law, as to which the courts of the State would in any
event have the final word. We do not find it necessary
to determine that question and we shall not attempt to
explore the history of Texas or to review the decisions of
the state courts cited by the appellees 2 We pass to the
consideration of the federal question presented, and for
that purpose we shall assume, without deciding, that the
law of the State authorizes what the Governor has done.
Third. The existence and nature of the complainants'
rights are not open to question. Their ownership of the
oil properties is undisputed. Their right to the enjoyment and use of these properties subject to reasonable
regulation by the State in the exercise of itg power to
prevent unnecessary loss, destruction and waste, is protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana,177 U. S. 190; Lindsley v.
Natural CarbonicGas Co., 220 U. S. 61; Walls v. Midland
2

Ex parte Coupland, 26 Tex. 386; Ex parte Turman, 26 Tex. 708;
Bx parte Mayer, 27 Tex. 715; State v. Sparks, 27 Tex.. 627; id., 705;
The Emancipation Cases, 31 Tex. 504; Arroyo v. State, 69 S. W. 503.
See, also, Franksv. Smith, 142 Ky. 232; 134 S. W. 484; Fluke v. Canton, 31 Okla. 718; 123 Pac. 1049; Bishop v. Vandercook, 228 Mich.
299; 200 N. W. 278; In re McDonald, 49 Mont. 454; 143 Fac 947;
Herlihy v. Donohue, 52 Mont. 601; 161 Pac. 164; Allen v. Gardner,
182 N. C. 425; 109 S. E. 260. Compare State ex rel. Mays v. Brown,
71 W. a. 519.; 77 S. E. 243; In re Jones, 71 W. Va. 567; 77 S. E. 1029;
Hatfield v. Graham, 73 W. Va. 759; 81 S. E. 533; Ex parte Lavinder,
88 W. Va. 713; 108 S. E. 428; In re Moyer, 35 Colo. 159; 85 Pac.
190; In re Boyle, 6 Idaho 609; 57 Pac. 706; Commonwealth ex ret.'

Wadsworth vi Shortall; 206Pa. St. 165; 55 At. 952.

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN..
378

Opinion of the Court.

Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300'; Bandini Petroleum Co. v.
Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8; Champlin Refining Co. v.
Corporation Commission, 286 U. S. 210. The State, in
this instance, had asserted its regulatory authority by
enacting laws for the prevention of waste and had empowered the Railroad Commission to investigate and to
establish rules to this end. The Commission then made
its orders governing and limiting oil production. The
complainants brought suit in the federal court to restrain
the enforcement of these orders upon the ground that
they were unauthorized, arbitrary and capricious, and
violated the federal right to the enjoyment and use of theo
properties. Exercising the jurisdiction conferred by federal statute, a federal judge had granted a temporary
restraining order, pending the convening of the court
which by that statute was charged with the duty to determine whether the requirement of the Commission was
valid or its enforcement should be enjoined. While this
orderly process was going forward, it was superseded and
in effect nullified by the Governor of the State, who undertook by militar ,order to effect the limitation which
the Commission by that process was for the time being
forbidden to maintain. And when the federal court,
finding his action to have been unjustified by any existing exigency, has given the relief appropriate in, the absence of other adequate remedy, appellants assert that
the court was powerless thus to intervene and that the
Governor's order had the quality of a supreme and unchallengeable edict, overriding all conflicting rights of
property and unreviewable through the judicial power of
the Federal Government.
If this extreme position could be deemed to be well
taken, it is manifest that the fiat of.a state Governor, and
not the Constitution of the United States, would be the
supreme law of the land; that the restrictions of the Federal Constitution upon the exercise of state power would

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

-be but impotent phrases, the futility of which the State
may at any time disclose by the simple process of transferring powers of legislation to the Governor to be exercised by him, beyond control, upon his assertion of necessity. Under our system of government, such a conclusion
is obviously untenable. There is no such avenue of escape from the paramount authority of the Federal Constitution. When there is a substantial showing that the
exertion of state power has overridden private rights secured by that Constitution, the subject is necessarily one
for judicial inquiry in an appropriate proceeding directed
against the individuals charged with the transgression.
To such a case the federal judicial, power extends (Art.
III, § 2) and, so extending, the court-has all the authority
appropriate to its exercise. Accordingly, it has been decided in a great variety of circumstances that when questions of law and fact are so intermingled as to make it
necessary, in order to pass upon the federal question, the
court may, and should, analyze the facts. Even when the
case comes to this Court from a state court this duty must
be performed as a necessary incident to a decision upon
the claim of denial of federal right. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591;
Cresuill v. KnVhts of Pythias,225 U. S. 246,261; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593;
Union PacificR. Co. v. Public Service Commn., 248 U. S.
67, 69; MerchantsNational Bank v. Richmond, 256 U. S.
635, 638; FirstNational Bank v. Hartford, 273 -U. S. 548,
552, 553.; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 385, 386.
Fourth. The application of these principles does not
fail to take into account the distinctive authority of the
State, In the performance of its essential function,, in
promoting the security and well-being .of its people, the
State must, of necessity, enjoy a broad discretion. The
range of that discretion accords with the subject of its
exercise. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 31;

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion of the Court.

Standard Oil Co.v. Marysville, 279 U. S.582, 584; Ohio
Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146, 159. As the State has
no more important interest than the maintenance of law
and order, the power it confers upon its Governor as Chief
Executive and Commander in Chief of its military forces
to suppress insurrection and to preserve the peace is of
the highest consequence. The determinations that the
Governor makes within the range of that authority have
all the weight which can be attributed to state action, and
they must be viewed in the light of the object to which
they may properly be addressed and with full recognition
of its importance. 'It is with appreciation of the gravity
of such an issue that the governing principles have been
declared.
By vittue of his duty to "cause the laws to be faithfully executed," the Executive is appropriately vested
with the discretion to determine whether an exigency
requiring military aid for that purpose has arisei. His
decision to that effect is conclusive. That construction,
this Court has said, in speaking of the power constitutionally conferred by the Congress upon the President to
call the militia into actual service "necessarily results
from the nature of the power itself, and from the manifest object contemplated." The power " is to be exercised
upon sudden emergencies, upon great occasions of state,
and under circumstances which may be vital to the
existence of the Union." Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat.
19, 29, 30. Similar effect, for corresponding reasons, is
ascribed to the exercise by the Governor of a State of his
discretion in calling out its military forces to suppress
insurrection and disorder. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1,
45; Moyer v. Peabody, 212 U. S.78, 83. The nature of
the power also necessarily implies that there is a permitted range of honest judgment as to the measures to
be taken in meeting force with force, in suppressing
violence and restoring order, for without such liberty to

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

make immediate decisions, the power itself would be useless. Such measures, conceived in good faith, in the face
of the emergency and directly related to the quelling of
the disorder or the prevention of its continuance, fall
within the discretion of the Executive in the exercise
of his authority to maintain peace. Thus, in Moyer v.
Peabody, supra, the Court sustained the authority of
the Governor to hold in custody temporarily one whom
he believed to be engaged in fomenting disorder, and
right of recovery against the Governor for the imprisonment was denied. The Court said that, as the Governor
"may kill persons who resist," he "may use the milder
measures of seizing the bodies of those whom he considers to stand in the way of restoring peace. Such
arrests are not necessarily for punishment, but are by
way of precaution to prevent the exercise of hostile
power. So long as such arrests are made in good faith
and in the honest belief that they are needed in order
to head the insurrection off, the Governor is the final
judge and cannot be subjected to an action after he is
out of office on the ground that he had not reasonable
ground for his belief." In that case it appeared that the
action of the Governor had direct relation to the subduing of the insurrection by the temlorary detention of
one believed to.be a participant, and the general language
of the opinion must be taken in connection with the
pQint actually decided. Cohens v. Virginia,6 Wheat. 264,
399; Carroll v. Carroll's Lessee, 16 How. 275, 287; Myers
v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 142.
It- does not follow from the fact that the Executive has
this rafige of discretion, deemed to be a necessary incident of this power to suppress disorder, that every sort of
action the Governor may take, no matter how unjustified
by the exigency or subversive of private right and the
jurisdiction of the courts, otherwise available, is conclusively supported by mere executive fiat. The contrary

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion of the Court.

is well established. What are the allowable limits of
military discretion, and whether or not they have been
overstepped'in a particular case, are judicial questions.
Thus, in the theatre of actual war, there are occasions in
which private property may be taken or destroyed to prevent it from falling into the hands of the enemy or may.
be impressed into the public service and the officer may
show the necessity in defending an action for trespass.
" But we are clearly of opinion," said the Court speaking
through Chief Justice Taney, " that in all of these cases
the danger must be immediate and impending; or the
necessity urgent for the public service, such as will not
admit of delay, and where the action of the civil authority
would be. too late in providing the means which the occasion cali for. . . Every case must depend on its own
circunrstances. It is the emergency that gives the right,
and the emergency must be shown to exist before the
taking can be justified." Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How.
115, 134. See, also, .United States v. Russell, 13. Wall.
623, 628. There is no ground for the conclusion that
military orders in the case of insurrection have any higher
sanction or confer any greater immunity.
We need not undertake to determine the intended significance of the expression "martial law," and all its possible connotations, as it was employed in the Governor's
proclamation. Nor are we concerned with the permis.
sible scope of determinations of military necessity in all
their conceivable applications to actual or threatened disorder and breaches of the peace. Fundamentally, the
question here is not of the power of the Governor. to proclaim that a state of insurrection, or tumult, or riot, or
breach of the peace exists, and that it is necessary' to call
military force to the aid of the civil power. Nor does the
question relate to the quelling of disturbances and the
overcoming of unlawful resistance to civil authority. The
question before us is simply with respect to the Gover-

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

nor's attempt to regulate by executive order the lawful
use of complainants' properties in the production of oil.
Instead of affording them protection in the lawful exercise of their rights as determined by the courts, he sought,
by his executive orders, to make that exercise impossible.
In the place of judicial procedure, available in the courts
which were open and functioning, he set up his executive
commands which brooked neither delay nor appeal. In
particular, to the process of the federal court actually and
properly engaged in examining and protecting an asserted
federal right, the Governor interposed the obstruction of
his will, -subverting the federal authority. The assertion
that such action can be taken as conclusive proof of its
own necessity and must be accepted as in itself due process of law has no support in the decisions of this Court.
Appellants' contentions find their appropriate answer
in what was said by this Court in Ex parte Milligan, 4
Wall. 2, 124, a statement as applicable to the military
authority of the State in the case of insurrection as to
the military authority of the Nation in time of war:
"The proposition is this: That in a time of war the
commander of an armed force (if in his opinion the
exigencies of the country demand it, and of which he is
to judge), has the power, within the lines of his military
-district, to suspend all civil rights and their remedies,
and subject citizens as well as soldiers to the rule of
his will; and in the exercise of his lawful authority cannot be restrained, except by his superior officer or the
President of the United States. If this position is sound
to the extent claimed, then when war exists, foreign or
domestic, and the country is subdivided into military
departments for mere convenience, the commander of
one of them can, if he chooses, within his limits, on the
plea of necessity, with the approval of the Executive,
substitute military force for and to the exclusion of the
laws, and punish all persons, as he thinks right and

STERLING v. CONSTANTIN.
378

Opinion- of the Court.

proper, -without fixed or certain rules. The statement
of this proposition shows its importance; for, if true,
republican government is a failure, and there is an end
of liberty regulated by law. Martial law established
on such a basis, destroys every guarantee of the^Constitution, and effectually renders the military independent
of and superior to the civil power.... Civil liberty and
this kind of martial -law cannot endure together; the
antagonism is irreconcilable; and, in the conflict, one
or the other must perish."
Fifth. The argument of appellants intimates, while- it
reserves the question, that it may be possible for th6
courts to call upon the Governor, after the alleged emergency has passed, to account for what he has done, but
that they may not entertain a proceeding for injunction.
The suggestion confuses the question of judicial power
with that of judicial remedy. If the matter is one of
judicial cognizance, it is because of an alleged invasion
of a right, and the judicial power necessarily extends to
the granting of the relief found to be appropriate according to .the circumstances of the case. Whether or not
the injured party is entitled to an injunction will depend
upon equitable principles; upon the nature of the right
invaded and the adequacy of the remedy at law.* If the
court finds that the limits of executive authority have
been transgressed, and that in view of the character
of the injury equitable relief by injunction is essential
in order to afford the, protection to which the injured
party -is entitled, it can not be said that the judicial
power is fettered because the injury is attributable to
a military order.
In the present case, the findings of fact inade by the

District Court are fully supported by the evidence. They
leave no room for doubt that there was no military necessity which, from any point of view, could be taken to
justify the action of the Governor in attempting to limit

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

complainants' oil production, otherwise lawful. Complainants had a constitutional right to resort to the federal court to have the validity of the Commission's orders
judicially determined. There was no exigency which justified the Governor in attempting to enforce by executive
or military order the restriction which the District Judge
had restrained j ending proper judicial inquiry. If it be
assumed that the Governor was entitled to declare a state
of insurrection and to bring military force to the aid of
civil authority, the proper use of -that power in this instance was to maintain the federal court in the exercise
of its jurisdiction and not to attempt to override it; to
aid in making its process effective and not to nullify it;
to remove, and not to create, obstructions .to the exercise
by the complainants of their rights as judicially declared.
It is also plain that there was no adequate remedy at law
for the redress of the injury and, as the evidence showed
that the Governor's orders were an invasion under color
of state law of rights secured by the Federal Constitution,
the District Court did not err in granting the injunction.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
No. 11, appeal dismissed.
No. 458, judgment affirmed.
DALTON LT AL. v. BOWERS, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

-No. 52w Argued November 14, 1932.-Decided December 12, 1932.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1924, § 206, a loss not "attributable to
the operation of a trade or business regularly carried on by the taxpayer" isnot deductible in computing his net income for the year
following that in which the loss occurred. P. 409.
*2. As a general rule for tax purposes a corporation is an entity dis-,

tinct from its stockholders. P. 410.

