12

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

NEW YORK CENTRAL SECURITIES CORPORATION v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 5. Argued October 14, 17, 1932.--Decided November 7, 1932.
1. Subdivision (2) of § 5 of the Transportation Act empowers the
Interstate Commerce Commission, when of the opinion that acquisition by one carrier of control of another, "either under a lease
or by the purchase of stock or in any other manner not involving
the consolidation of such carriers into a single system for ownership
and operation," will be ih the public interest, to authorize such
acquisition, on such terms and conditions as the Commission finds
to be just and reasonable, etc. Subdivision (6) of the same section
permits carriers, with the approval of the Commission, "to consolidate their properties or any part thereof into one corporation
for the ownership, rianagenient, and operation of the properties
theretofore in separate ownership, management, and operation,"
upon the condition (among others) that- the consolidation must be
in harmony with the complete plan, to be adopted by the Commis-sion under subdivisions (4) and (5), for consolidation of the railway properties of the United States into a limited number of
systems. Held:
(.1) Under subdivision (2) the Commission may authorize a carrier that already controls others by stock ownership, to have control also by lease, for the purpose of securing greater economy and
efficiency of operation. The disjunctive phrasing, "either under a
lease or by purchase of stock," does not mean that one method must
be exclusive of the other. Pp. 22-23.
(2) The extent of control allowable by the Commission under
subdivision (2), short of "consolidation," is tested by its relation
to the public interest. That interest is served by economy and
efficiency in operation. P. 23.
(3) A consolidation within the meaning of subdivision (2) is one
for ownership as well as operation. The acquisition proposed in
this- case was hot such a consolidation. Id.
(4) Whether the authority to lease in this case would interfere
with the plans of the Commission for consolidation of carriers was
an administrative question for the Commission to decide. P. 24.

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO.v.U.S
12

Syllabus.

(5)"Public Interest," the ckiterion of the Commission's authority under subdivision (2), is not the public welfare in general, but
the public interest in the adequate transportation service sought.to
be secured by the Act. Objection that the delegation of authority
is invalid for lack of definition, is hiot tenable. P. 24.
(6) Congress had power'to foster interstate commerce by removing the restrictions of the antitrust laws, as respects the control by
one carrier of the parallel and conpeting linie of another, and to
permit such control in aid of the purposes of the Traxsportation
Act, as provided by subdivisions (2) and (8)'of § 5"thereof. P. 25.
(7) An order of-the Commission permitting a lease under subdivision (2) is permissive, not mandatory; and the question whether
the lease so authorized is beyond the powers of the carriers because
of the laws of the States of incorporation relating to leasing of
competing lines, minimum rentals, and security for payment and
preservation of property, is not a question which the Commission
is. required to decide or which can be raised in a suit to set aside
its order. P. 26.
(8) The authority of the Commission to impose conditions was
not restricted to conditions favored by the carriers, and was not
overstepped in this case by a condition that the lessee acquire certain short lines that were complementary to its railway system.
P. 28.
2. By § 20 (a) of the Transportation Act, a carrier is forbidden .to
assume any liability, as lessor, lessee or otherwise, in respect of the
securities of another, unless, and only to the extent that, the Commission authorizes; and the Commission may make such order only
(among other conditions) when it finds that such assumption "is
for some lawful object within its corporate purposes, and compatible
with the public interest, which is . . . consistent with the proper
performance by the carrier of service to the public- as a common
carrier, and which will*not impair its ability to perform that service." Subdivision (7) declares that the jurisdiction conferred upon
the Commission by the section shall be exclusive and plenary, and
that a carrier may assume obligations in accordance with the provisions of the section without securing approval otherwise than as
specified therein. Held:
(1) That the requirement that the assumption be "for some
lawful object within its .corporate purposes" refers, not to statelimitations upon corporate powers, but to the general field of
corporate purposes. P. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

(2) That the Commission need not determine whether there has
been compliance with state requirements and the question whether
the assumption permitted by its order is -contrary to state law
could not bd raised in a suit to set its order aside. Id.
3. In a suit under U. S. C., Title 28, § 47. (".Urgent Deficiencies
Act "), to set aside an order of the Interstate Oiommerce Commission permitting a carrier to acquire control by lease of the railway
of another company, questions as to whether the lessee, as majority
stoclholder of the lessor company, failed in its fiduciary duty to the
plaintiff, as a minority stockholder,--held not properly raised in
the trial court or open to review on appeal. P. 28.'
4. An order of the Commission permitting a lease under § 5 (2) will
not be set aside upon objections going to the adequacy of the rentals
and the propriety of the lease, where the parties were fully heard
by the Commission and where there is no basis for contending that
the order was not adequately supported by evidence or that it bad
any confiscatory effect. P. 29.
54 F. (2d) 122, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill to set aside orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. One of the orders authorized
the New York Central Railroad Company to acquire control by lease of the railroad systems of the "Big Four"
and Michigan Central companies; another permitted the
lessee to assume obligation and liability in respect of certain securities of the lessors. The plaintiff corporation
was a minority stockholder in each of the three railroad
companies.

Mr. Frederick A. Henry, with whom Messrs. Louis J.
Vorhaus and Joseph Fischer were on the brief, for
appellant.
The New York Central having already acquired control
by stock ownership, there was no power to authorize the
acquisition of control by lease.
The intent of the limitation "not involving the consolidation of such carriers into a single system for owner-

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

15

Argument for Appellant.

ship and operation," was to deter the Commission from
taking any action-under color of § 5 (2), and in advance
of the prorhulgating under § 5 (5) of its nation-wide plan
adopted and published since the orders herein complained
of were made-which might forestall its exertion of the
power conferred by § 5 (6) to permit carriers "to consolidate their properties or any part thereof into one
corporation for the ownership, management and operation of the properties theretofore in separate ownership,
management and operation." Congress in this manner
restricted the extent of advance control allowable by the
Commission so that the latter should keep both able and
free to "unscramble" the elements involved in any
acquisition of control and to reallocate the 'same in
accordance.with the complete plan. Cf. Control of Big
Four by New York Central, 72 I. C. C. 96, 98; also Control of Central Pacific by Southern Pacific, 76 I. C. C.
508, 525, reserving the right to terminate lease and stock
control.
The term "consolidation" does not necessarily import
the acquiring of general title to constituent properties,
but embraces as well what the Commission styles a "unification." East St. L. Ry. Co. v. Jarvis, 92 Fed. 735;
Borg v. Illinois Terminal Co., 16 F. (2d) 988; People v.
People's Gas Light Co., 205 Il. 482, 492; 1 Beach on
Private Corp ns, § 334. While. "ownership" is not at
common law a technical term but is as broadly inclusive as property and property rights (Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co. v. Walker, 45 Oh. St. 114; Federal Trade Commn.
v. Thatcher Mfg. Co., 5 F. (-2d) 615, 620, 621), the word
'especially fits the purposes of § 5 (2) and 5 (6), since
degree of dominion rather than mere kind of title is
the basis alike of what the one paragraph: undertakes
to forbid and the other to permit-inseparable unions
of carriers. Under the latter paragraph no technical

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

consolidation of the properties of two or more carriers
pursuant to the permanent plan would ever be feasible
if a strictly allodial or fee simple title is the only sort
of ownership in the "one corporation" that can satisfy
the statute.
Departmental practice should not be held to validate a
usurpation that outstrips any clear precedent the Commission had theretofore established. The Commission,
moreover, has vacillated in its allowance or denial or proposed expansions and combinations of railroad properties
under §§ 1 (18) and 5 (2), (see Consolidation of D. T. & I.
and D. I. R. R., 124 I. C. C. 145, 159; and cf. Acquisition and Stock Issue by N. Y. C. & St. L. R. Co., 79 1. C. C.
581), and has itself intimated that its own decisions under
divers provisions of the Transportation Act are not to be
deemed binding upon it. Securities of La. Ry. & Nay.
Co., 99 I. C. C. 357.
Jurisdiction of the Commission to make an approving
order under § 5 (2) hinges upon its finding first that the
proposed acquisition of control will be "in the public
interest." Wichita R. R. & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Commn., 260 U. S. 48, 58; Beaumont, S. L. & W. R. Co. v.
United States, 282 U. S. 74, 86. The Act itself, however,
prescribes no definite standard, nor any intelligible principle, to which the Commission is directed to conform;
and the report cites none. Cf. Clinchfield Ry. Lease, 90
I. C. C. 113, 121. To leave this essentially legislative
concept to the determination and discretion of the Commission is an unconstitutional delegation by Congress of
its legislative power. Hampton & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 394, 409.
Those things must certainly be deemed to be against
"public interest" which Congress by § 5 (4) has prohibited in railroad consolidations, viz., every unnecessary suppression of competition and every avoidable diversion of

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

17

Argument for Appellant.

existing traffic routes. But they are precisely the ends
which in the same asserted interest this acquisition of
control purports to achieve.
The above-cited provisioi of § 5 (4) stands in apparent
opposition to that of paragraph (8), which relieves the
carriers affected by orders under earlier provisions of the
section "from the operation of the 'antitrust laws.'" In
the face of this dilemnna, which looks to both the preserving and the relinquishing of competition, the only escape
from repugnancy fatal to the whole section (Rice v. Minnesota & N. W. R. Co., 1 Black 358, 378-379) lies in so
restricting the scope of the latter paragraph that if any
valid order of the Commission under a preceding provision of § 5 interrupts competition in minor particulars
that caiinot be obviated-which is the most that any such
order can lawfully do in view of the limitation in paragraph (4)-then paragraph (8) will operate to relieve the
carriers concerned from the resulting incidental or technical breaches of the antitrust laws..
Accruing thus automatically, such immunity may be
conceived to proceed directly from the will of Congress.
But without such restriction of the scope of paragraph
(8), it must proceed from the Commission's discretionunder an inadmissible, as well as a repugnant, delegation
by Congress of its legislative power.
As exertions of corporate power by the carriers concerned, the proposed leases are not within the sanction
of the controlling statute of Ohio; and as combinations
of competing lines, they contravene constitutional or
statutory limitations of corporate power to enter into
such leases, in every State they touch; so that on either
ground the Commission was without power to approve
and authorize them. The carriers still derive from the
States their corporate power, and the mode prescribed
for exercising it, to enter into leases; and in Ohio the

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

287 U.S.

linitations of such power are inseparable from the grant.
Section 5 (2) prescribes no internal corporate proceedings
for the making of such demise, but leaves the carriers in
this respect where it finds them, namely, subject to the
corporation codes of the States where they are chartered
to do business.
The orders herein complained of contravene th.e Ohio
statute-and under the first of the following specifications
the cited laws of other States as well-in approving and
authorizing the New York Central's acquisition of control,
ultra vires, (a) by leases of competing lines, (b) for a
rental less in each case than the net earnings of the leased
road for the fiscal year next preceding, and (c) without
security for payment of the rental and preservation of
the property.
The attack based upon the state law limitations of the,
corporate power has place in the suit to annul the order.
Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Jackson, 22 F. (2d)
509, 511; Pittsburgh& TV. Va. Ry. Co. v. United States,
281 U. S. 479; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258;
Interstate Commerce Commn. v. Union Pac. R. Co., 222
U. S. 541; Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281 U. S. 249;
Venner v. M1ichigan Central R. Co., 271 U. S. 127. Cf.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Willow Glen, 49 F. (2d) 1005,
1008.
The conclusion is inevitable that in a minority stockholders' suit begun in the District Court under th6 Urgent
Deficiencies Act to set aside an order of the Conmmission
under § 5 (2) upon the ground that such order denies him
equal. treatment or will unlawfully injure his pecuniary
interest as an investor, the plaintiff may litigate every
question pertinent to such claim as in a plenary suit in
equity; for otherwise he would no longer have a remedy
to prevent threatened damage to himself from unconscionable or ultra vires acts by his own corporation in the
carrying out of permissive orders of the Commission; or

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

19

Opinion of the Court.

else such orders would be subject to defeat in suits for
injunction to which the Commission is not made a party.
The Conission was without power to condition its
authorization upon the acquisition of the burdensome
short lines.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General Thacher and Assistant to the Attorney General
O'Brian were on the brief, for the United States and
Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees.
Mr. Jacob Aronson, with whom Mr. Charles C. Paulding was on the brief, for the New York Central Railroad Company et al., appellees.
MR.CHIEF JUsTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
On July 2, 1929, the Iliterstate Commerce Commissioh
made an order authorizing the New Ybrk Central Railroad Company to acquire control, by lease, of the railroad
systems of the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis
Railway Company (known as the 'Big Four') and of the
Michigan Central Railroad Company. By order of December 2, 1929, the Commission permitted the assumption by the lessee of obligation and liability in respect of
certain securities of the lessors. In this suit, a minority
stockholder of each of the lessors, and of the lessee, sought
to set aside these orders upon the ground that the Commission had exceeded its authority. The. District Court,
of three judges, upon pleadings and proofs, and having
filed findings of fact and conclusions of law,. denied the
motion for injunction and dismissed the petition upon
the merits. 54 F. (2d) 122. The petitioner appeals.
U. S. C., Tit. 28, §§ 47, 345.
The District Court, against objection, sustained its
jurisdiction. The court took the view that the petitioner,

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

as a minority stockholder of the lessors, alleged an injury
not merely derivative, but independent, being a member
of a class created by the leasing agreements. 54 F. (2d)
at p. 126; compare Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry., Co.
v. United States, 281 U. S. 479, 487. While appellees
submit that there are certain contentions which appellant
may not properly raise, the correctness of the decision
as to jurisdiction is conceded.
The authority of the Commission to make the orders is
rested upon § 5, subdivision 2, and § 20a of the Interstate
Commerce Act. U. S. C., Tit. 49.1 After full hearing, and
upon consideration of the purpose of the proposals, of
the physical, traffic and intercorporate relationships, of
investment, income and'dividends, of the provisions of
the proposed leases, of the benefits deemed to accrue to
the public, of the particular situation of certain short
lines, and of the objections raised by minority stockholdThe pertinent provisions of these sections are as follows:
"'See. 5 (2): Acquisition of control of one carrier by another.-Whenever the commission is of opinion, after hearing, upon application of any carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or property subject to this chapter, that the acquisition, to the
extent indicated by the commission, by one of such carriers of the control of any other such carrier or carriers either under a lease or by
the purchase of stock or in any other manner not involving the consolidation of such carriers into a single system for ownership and
operation, will be in the public interest, the commission shall have
authority by order to approve and authorize such acquisition, under
such rules and regulations and for such consideration and on such
terms aiid conditions as shall be found by the commission to be just
and reasonable in the premises. .. "
"Sec. 5 (8): Carriers affected relieved from operation of antitrust
laws, etc.-The carriers affected by any order made under the foregoing provisions of this section and any corporation organized to effect
a consolidation approved and authorized in such order are relieved
from the operation of the 'antitrust laws,' as designated in section 12
of Title 15, Commerce and Trade, and of all other restraints or prohibitions by law, State or Federal,, in so far as may be necessary to

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

21

Opinion of the Court.

ers, the Commission found that the "considerations and
terms and conditions' set forth in the proposed leases
were "just and reasonable" and that the contemplated
acquisition would be "in the public interest." The authorization was upon the express condition that before
the leases became effective, the New York Central should
-offer to acquire specified short lines upon terms and conditions stated. Report, January 14, 1929, 150 I. C. C.
278, 321, 322. Upon proof of compliance with this condition, and upon further conditions, the. acquisition was approved. Supplemental Report and Order of July 2, 1929,
154 I. C. C. 489, 494, 495. One of the conditions was
that the New York Central and the 'Big Four' should not
be relieved from compliance with provisions of law applicable' to any assumption of obligations and liabilities
by virtue of the execution of the leases. On later applienable them to do anyt'hing authorized or required by any order made
under and pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this section ... "
"Sec. 20a (2): Issuance of securities; assumption of obligations;
authorization.-Itshall be unlawful for any carrier to issue any share
of capital stock or any bond or other evidence of interest in or indebtedness of the carrier (hereinafter in this section, collectively termed
' securities') or to assume any obligation or liability as lessor, lessee,
guarantor, indorser, surety, or otherwise, in respect of the securities of
any other person, natural or artifitial, even though permitted by the
authority creating the carrier corporation, unless and until, and then
only to the extent that, upon application by the carrier, and after investigation by the commission of the purposes and uses of the proposed
issue and the proceeds thereof, or of the proposed assumption of obligation: or liability in respect of the securities of anyotherperson,natural
or artificial, the commission.by order authorizes such issue or assump.tion. The commission shall .make such order only if it finds that
such issue or assumption: (a) is for some lawful object within its corporate purposes, and compatible with the public interest, which is
necessary or apprepriate for or consistent with the proper performance by the carrier of service to the public as a common carrier, and
which will not impair its ability to perform that service, and (b) is
reasonably necessary and appropriate for such purpose ....

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion. of the Court.

287 U.S.

cation for authority in that respect, the Commission
found that the proposed assumption by the carriers was
"for a lawful object within their corporate purposes, and
compatible with the public interest, which is necessary
and appropriate for and consistent with the proper performance by them of service to the public as common carriers, and which, will not impair their ability to perform
that service" and was "reasonably necessary and appropriate for such purpose." Report and Order of December
2, 1929, 158 I. C. C. 317, 323, 328.
Appellant contends (a) that as the New York Central
had already acquired control of the ' B.ig Four' and Michigan Central by stock ownership, the Commission could
not authorize acquisition of control by lease; (b) that the
proposed acquisition involved a "consolidation" which
could not be authorized under § 5 (2) ; (c) that the main
lines of the lessors are parallel and competing with those
of the lessee so that competition would be suppressed, and
that the attempt to confer authority upon the Commission to approve the acquisition of control was an unconstitutional delegation of power; (d) that the proposed
leases transgressed limitations imposed by state authority; and (e) that the action of the Commission -was
unsupported by evidence and was arbitrary and confiscatory as to the appellant. The questions presented thus
relate, in part, toy the construction and validity of the
statute and, in part, to the present application of the
statute in view of the particular terms of the leases.
First. The Commission stated that, while the properties of the New-. York Central, the 'Big Four' and the
Michigan Central are operated -as separate units, the
companies are under common control. This control has
existed for many years. The Commission found that the
New York Central held upwards of 99 per cent. of the
stock of the Michigan Central and upwards of 91 per
cent. and 84 per cent., respectively, of the common and

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

23

Opinion of the Court.

preferred stocks of the 'Big Four.' The authority to
lease was sought in the view that it would facilitate revision of routes, and physical improvements needed for new
routes, and would make possible important economies in
operation which the Commission set forth in detail. Section 5 (2) authorizes the acquisition of control "to the
extent indicated by the Commission." The question is
not of the extent ofthe control, provided it stops short of
"consolidation'" but of the public interest in having the
control maintained. The public interest is served by
economy and efficiency in operation. If the expected advantages are inailequately secured by stock ownership
and would be better secured by lease, the statute affords
no basis for the contention that the latter may not. be
authorized although the former exists. The fact that one
precedes the other cannot be regarded as determinative
if the desired coordination is not otherwise obtainable.
The disjunctive phrasing of the statute "either under a
lease or by the purchase of stock" must be read in the
light of its obvious purpose and cannot be taken to mean
that one method must be exclusive of the other.
The statute refers to "control" in contradistinction to
"consolidation."
Subdivision (2) itself indicates that
control by purchase of stock or by lease is not regarded as
a "consolidation" as the word is there used. Its use is
in the restricted sense of the formation of a "single system for ownership" as well as for "operation."
This
distinction between control where separate ownership continues, and consolidation where a single ownership is
created, is a familiar -one in the law. Railroad Co. v.
Georgia, 98 U. S. 359, 363. That the Congress had this
distinction in view appears from the other provisions of
§ 5. Thus, subdivision (6) permits carriers "to consolidate their properties or any part thereof, into one corporation for the ownership, management,. and operation
of the properties theretofore in separate ownership, man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

agement, and operation." This may be effected under
stated conditions which contemplate the ownership by one
corporation of the consolidated properties and the issue
of securities upon that basis. The view that-the proposed
acquisition does not involve a "consolidation" contrary
to the limitation in subdivision (2) is in accord with the
long-continued construction of the statute by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Control of El Paso & S. W.
System, 90 1. C. C. 732; Control of Alabama & Vicksburg,
etc., 111 I. C. C. 161, 169; Lease of Pan Handle, 72 I. C. C.
128, 133; New York Central Leases, 72 I. C. C. 243; Control of Central Pacific, 76 1.0. C. 508; Nickle Plate Unification, 105 I. C. C. 425. And this administrative construction
would be persuasive if the statute could be regarded as
ambiguous. United States v. Jackson,.280U. S. 183, 193;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S.
.740, 757. Whether the particular authorization, in the
light of the situation of these carriers, would interfere with
plans of the Commission for consolidation was an administrative question with which the Commission was
competent to deal.
Appellant insists that the delegation of authority to the
Commission is invalid because the stated criterion is
uncertain. That criterion is the , public interest." It
is a mistaken assumption that this is a mere general
reference to public welfare without any standard to guide
determinations. The purpose of the Act, the requirements it imposes, and the context of the provision in
question show the contrary. Going forward from a policy
mainly directed to the prevention of abuses, particularly
those arising from excessive or discriminatory rates, Transportation Act, 1920, was designed better to assure adequacy in transportation service. This Court, in New
England'DivisionsCase, 261 U. S. 184, 189, 190, adverted
to that purpose, which was found to be expressed in
unequivocal language; "to attain it, new rights, new

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

25

Opinion of the Court.

obligations, new machinery, were created." The Court
directed attention to various provisions having this effect,
and to the criteria which the statute had established in
referring -to "the transportation needs of the public,"
"the necessity of enlarging transportation facilities," and
the measures which would "best promote the service in
the interest of the public and the commerce of the people."
Id. p. 189, note. See, also, Texas & PacificRy. Co. v. Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 277. The
provisions now before us were among the additions made
by Transportation Act, 1920, and the term "public interest" as thus used is not a concept without ascertainable
criteria, but has direct relation to adequacy of transportation service, to its essential conditions of economy and
efficiency, and to appropriate provision and best use of
transportation facilities, questions to which the Interstate
Commerce Commission has constantly addressed itself in
the exercise of the authority conferred. So far as constitutional delegation of authority is concerned, the question is not essentially different from that which is raised
by provisions with respect to reasonableness of rates, to
discrimination, and to the issue of certificates of public
convenience and necessity. Intermountain Rate Cases,
234 U. S. 476, 486; Railroad Commission v. Southern
Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331, 343, 344; Avent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127, 130; Coloradov. United States, 271
U. S. 153, 163; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United
States, 283 U. S. 35, 42.
The fact that the carriers' lines are parallel and competing cannot be deemed to affect the validity of the
authority conferred upon the Commission. The Congress,
which had power to impose prohibitions in the regulation
of interstate commerce, Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197, had equal power to foster that
commerce by removing prohibitions and by permitting
acquisition of control where that was found to be an aid

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

in the accomplishment of the purposes in view in the
enactment of Transportation Act, 1920. See New York
v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 601; Colorado v. United
States, 271 U. S. 153, 165. Exercising this paramount
power, the Congress expressly provided in subdivision (8)
of § 5, which has direct reference to subdivision (2), that
"the carriers affected by any order made under the foregoing provisions of this section" are "relieved from the
operation of the 'antitrust laws,'" and "of all other restraints or prohibitions by law, State or Federal, in so far
as may be necessary to enable them to do anything authorized or required by any order made under and pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this section." The
questioi whether the acquisition of control in the case
of competing carriers will aid in preventing an injurious
waste and in securing more efficisnt transportation service
is thus committed to the judgment of the administrative
agency upon the facts developed in the particular case.
Appellant contends that the provision of subdivision
(8) of § 5, referring to "-restraints or prohibitions by law,
State or Federal" should be construed- as limited to those
restrictions which are of the same general character as
the ' antitrust laws and not as applying to specific limitations imposed by state laws upon corporate powers with
respect to the making of leases. Appellant invokes the
laws of the States of incorporation in relation to leases
of competing lines, and especially the laws of Ohio upon
that subject and with respect to minimum rentals and
security for payment and the preservation of property.
It is sufficient for the present purpose to say that this contention cannot, in any event, avail the appellant. The
question of the right of a, State of incorporation, in a direct
proceeding, to challenge the leases -as ultra vires is not
before us. See Cleveland, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis
Ry. Co. v. United States, 275 U. S.404, 414. The order
of -the Commission under § 5 (2) is permissive, not man-

N. Y. CENTRAL SECURITIES CO. v. U. S.
12

27

Opinion of the Coart.

datory. There is no warrant for concluding that the Congress intended to fetter the exercise of the Commission's
authority by requiring that the Commission before making its order must determine whether the acquisition is
within the corporate powers of the carrier under state laws.
The Commission has given its approval in the exercise of
the authority conferred and the question of corporate powers cannot properly be raised in this suit to set aside the
Commission's order. Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago &
St. Louis Ry. Co., supra; Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry Co.
v. United States, 285 U. S. 382, 391.
Nor is there ground for a different conclusion with respect to the Commission's order under § 20a, authorizing
the assumption of obligations. Appellant points to the
requirement in that section that the Commission shall
make such an order only if it finds that the Assumption by
the carrier is "for some lawful object within its corporate
purposes." But that this provision does.not iefer to state
limitations upon corporate powers, but rather to the general field of corporate purposes, sufficiently appears from
the context and from the legislative history of the clause.
In creating federal supervision of the iisue of securities
by interstate carriers, the Congress, so far from making
it necessary for the Ccimmission to determine whether
there had been compliance with state requirements, expressly provided in subdivision (7) of § 20a that the'jurisdiction of the Commission should be "exclusive and
plenary" and that approval other than as specified in that
section, should not be necessary.2
'It

appears that in the course of the consideration of the measure

which ultimately became § 20a (2) the words" corporate, purposes"
were substituted for "corporate powers." 54 F. (2d) at p. 130, note.
It should also be noted that, in connection with the provision which
became subdivision (7) of § 20a, an amendment was offered in the
House of Representatives to strike out that paragraph and to provid&
that no security should be issued, under the Act "except in the man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Another objection, urged against the order under § 5
(2), is that the Commission had no power to make the
acquisition of certain short lines a condition of its approval of the leases. The condition is asserted to be a burdensome one, opposed by the New York Central when it
made its application and involving the building up of an
enlarged system. But § 5 (2) expressly authorized the
Commission to impose conditions, and its action in so
doing was not limited to conditions proposed or favored
by the carriers. The Commission stated the facts as to
each of the short lines (150 I. C. C., pp. 294-311) and the
Commission found that those lines to which the condition
relates were complementary to the New York Central
System and that their preservation was "required by
public convenience and necessity and for the maintenance
of an adequate transportation system." Id., p. 322. It
cannot be said that tthe consideration of the situation of
these short lines was not appropriate to the determination
which the Commission was called upon to make or that
the condition was arbitrarily imposed.
Second. Questions as to the alleged breach by the New
York Central, as majority stockholder of the Michigan
Central, of its fiduciary duty to the appellant as minority
stockholder, in the light of the terms of the indenture
under which the voted shares had been pledged to secure
bonds, are not properly raised in this suit under the Urgent
ner and form prescribed by the laws of the state which created such
common carrier, and that this section is not to be construed as a limitation of state authority, but only as cumulative thereof." The
amendment was defeated. Cong. Rec., 66th Cong., 1st sess., vol. 58,
pp. 8673, 8676. Mr. Esch, in the report of the measure to the House
of Representatives, stated: "Without federal' control, the carriers
would have to be subjected to the diversified requirements of the
several states.... The enactment of the pending bill will put the
control over stock and bond issues exclusively in the hands of the
Federal Government and will result in uniformity and greater promptness of action." Cong. Rec., 1st sess., House Report No. 456, p. 21.

MOSHER v. PHOENIX.
12

Syllabus.

Deficiencies Act (U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 47) and hence are not
open to review on this appeal. Pittsburgh& West Virginia Ry. Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 479, 488.
The remaining questions with respect to the adequacy
of the rentals fixed, the other terms-of the proposed leases,
and the public interests involved, relate to the propriety
of the action of the Commission in the exercise of its
authority under the statute as construed. As to these
matters the parties were fully heard, pertinent evidence
was received and considered, and we find no basis for a
contention that the order of the Commission was not adequately supported or had any confiscatory effect. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 663;
Georgia Commission v. United States, 283 U. S. 765, 775.
Decree affirmed.
MOSHER v. CITY OF PHOENIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No4. 6 and 7. Argued October 17, 1932.-Decided November 7, 1932.
1. Jurisdiction of the District Court upon the ground of federal question, is. determined by the allegations of the bill, and not by the
way the facts turn out or by a deeision of the merits. P. 30.
2. Where a bill complaining of the attempted appropriation of plaintiff's land by a city as part of a street alleges that the city's action
iswithout authority from the state law, but goes on to say that,

under color of state authority, the city is attempting to take and
appropriate the use of plaintiff's property and deprive him thereof
without compensation or condemnation proceedings, -and without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment,.a
substantial federal question is presented. P. 32.

54 F. (2d) 777, 778, reversed.

CERTIOPAI, 285 U. S. 535, to review affirmances of two
decrees of the District Court dismissing bills by which the

-

