OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

178

Syllabus.

287 U.S.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. NEW
YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD
CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 15.

Argued October 17, 18, 1932.-Decided November 21, 1932.

1. Mandamus will not issue- to compel an act as a statutory duty if
the 6xistence of the duty be uncertain. Pp. 191, 203.
2. Public policy forbids that the work of the Interstate Commerce
Commission in valuing the railroads should be hampered by writs
of mandamus, except where departure from the statute is clear.
P. 204.
3. By virtue of contracts with owner and lessee railroads, the New
Haven system has the perpetual right to haul its trains over
tracks entering New York City, provided it pay an agreed price
per passenger carried and an agreed part of its receipts from mail
and express; and the perpetual right to use a New York terminal
station up to 50% capacity with an equal voice in the selection
and discharge of the station manager, provided it pay a part,
proportionate to such use, (1) of interest on the cost of building
the terminal and (2) of the cost of maintaining and operating it;
also a perpetual right to use in common' with other railroads
terminal tracks and a station in Boston that are owned by a
terminal company of which it owns 80% of the stock, provided it
pay a share, proportionate to use, of the cost of maintaining and
operating the terminal, of the interest on the terminal company's
bonds and of dividends on that company's stock. In valuing the
New Haven's property under § 19a of the Interstate Commerce
Act, the Commission, following its practice in like cases, made no
specific appraisal of these trackage and terminal rights; but it
reported them in the inventory and may be. assumed to have considered them in the appraisal of the system as a whole, the total
value assigned to it being more than the aggregate values assigned
to its physical parts. Held:
That whether the trackage and terminal rights are to be classed
as licenses or as easements, the duty to value them specifically, if
ib exists under the statute, is not so clearly and certainly imposed
as to be enforceable by mandamus. Pp. 191, et seq.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. HI. & H. R. CO.
178

179

Argument for Respondents.

4. A command to value all the property owned or used by a carrier
can not mean that a separate and specific value must be allocated
to every kdnd of property interest embraced within the whole.
To what extent a group of property interests shall be resolved into
its elements is a question of degree involving legislative intention
and administrative judgment. Pp. 192, 194.
5. Iii providing, § 19a, subdivision (b), that every "piece of"
property shall be inventoried and that in respect of each the
Commission shall ascertain original and reproduction costs, the
statute does not impose a plain and certain duty to appraise in
terms of cost if the interest to be appraised be such that the cost
of the thing is without relevance as a criterion of the value of the
interest. P. 194.
6. That clause of subdivision (b), par. "First" of § 19a, which
requires the Commission to ascertain and report separately "other
values, and elements of value, if any," of the carrier's property,
with the reasons for any differences between such values and the
cost values, does not impose a duty, inflexible and certain, to
appraise and value a use which is unrelated to the value of what
is subject to the use. P. 199.
7. The valuation report is the exercise solely of the function of
investigation; and though final valuations are to be prima facie
evidence against the carrier in proceedings under the Commerce
Act, the opportunity to contest them, if at any time introduced
in evidence, is fully preserved to the carrier, and any error therein
may be corrected at the trial. P. 204.
60 App. D. C. 403; 55 F. (2d) 1028, reversed.
Supreme Court, D. C., affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 535, to- review the reversal of a
judgment dismissing a petition for mandamus.

Mr.. Thomas M. Ross, with whom Messrs. Charles W.
Needham and Robert E. Freer and Mrs. Mary B. Linkins were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. John L. Hall and Charles 0. Pengra for respondents.
The carrier's rights in the tracks and terminals were
property. People v. O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondents.

287 U.S.

The trackage agreement created an easement, not a
mere license. Saratoga Water Corp. v. Pratt, 227 N. Y.
429, 442, 443; Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1; Louisville &
N. R. Co. v. Chesapeake & 0. R. Co., 107 Ky. 191. Distinguished: Union Pac.Ry. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.
Co., 163 U. S. 564.
The act amending the charter of the Harlem added to
the agreement the advantages of.a franchise. Owensboro
v. Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co., 230 U. S. 58, 65; Nellis v.
Munson, 108 N. Y. 453,460; Hall v. Turner, 110 N. C. 292;
Proprietorsof Lacks v. Boston & M. R. Co., 245 Mass. 52.
The interest in the Grand Central Terminal is an estate.
Georgia v. CincinnatiSou. Ry. Co., 248 U. S..26; Loomis
v. Heublein,91 Conn. 146.
The interest in the South Station and its approaches is
not that of a mere stockholder in the terminal company.
A perpetual right to use property constitutes an estate in
the property itself. Owensboro v. Cumberland Tel. &
Tel. Co., supra; Georgiav. CincinnatiSou. Ry. Co., supra;
Chicago, M. & St. P. R: Co. v. Des Moines Union Ry. Co.,
254 U. S. 196.
The. Commission is not authorized. by § 19a to make a
valuation of physical property to the exclusion of estates
and other incorporeal interests therein.
There is no provision for a special or restricted valuation.
The adaptability of locations as entrances into two
great communities for railroad purposes is an element of
value; perhaps the chief element of value of the property.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 451. This element
of value in the New York tracks and terminals does not
belong exclusively to the Harlem, because the New Haven
has a perpetual right to enjoy it in common with others.
It belongs in part to the New Haven because of its perpetual rights.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

181

Argument for Respondents.

The arbitrary rule for the valuation of jointly-usea
property adopted by the Commission in the Texas Midland Railroad report, is inconsistent with the statute.
The proper valuation of incorporeal property would
not result in duplication. The carrier is not placing an1y
academic interpretation on the word "property." It is
not using it in the constitutional sense which includes
contracts, labor and- other individual rights. It is not
asking the Commission to value as such the agreements
of March 17, 1848, and July 24, 1907. It is using "property" in the same sense as the Commission used it,
namely, the tracks and the terminal; but it contends that
those agreements created a property interest, an estate,
an incorporeal hereditament, in the New York tracks and
terminal themselves. The Harlem is not the sole owner
of that property and neither the Harlem nor its lessee,
the Central, is entitled to have the full value of that property included in its inventory. The ownership of the
property is subject to the estates therein. The value of
those estates should be deducted from the value of the
tracks and terminal and assigned tQ the carrier. There
would then be no duplication. The duplication results
from the insistence of the Commission on valuing a strip
of land or a terminal as a whole to one carrier. The value
should be assigned to and among the several carriers having property rights therein in proportion to thei- respective interests: This would be in accordance with the ordinary methods of valuation in everyday use. The difficulty and inconvenience of making such a proper valuation afford no basis for refusing to enforce the Act of
'Congress. Kansas City Sou. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commn., 252 U. S. 178, 188.
This sort of property right has been valued, and been
required by the courts to be valued, in numerous cases
involving the valuation of public utilities, even for rate-

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondents.

287 U.S.

making purposes. San Joaquin Co. v. Stanislaus County,
233 U. S. 454; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272
U. S. 400.
The Commission is not authorized to report as a value
for rate-making purposes under § 15a, or otherwise, a
valuation which excludes part of the carrier's property.
The carrier contends that it is the duty of the Commission to ascertain and report under § 19a by application of the principles of valuation set forth therein the
actual fair value of all the property of each carrier; and
the value so determined of that part of its property held
for and used in the service of transportation, automatically becomes the rate base of value for rate-making
-purposes under § 15a. The members of the Commission
have been by no means unanimous in their attitude towards this question. Atlanta, B. & A. R. Co., 75 I. C. C.
645, 665, 666; Kansas City Sou. Ry. Co., 84 I. C. C. 113,
117, 125, 126.
The valuation must be susceptible of use for other
purposes as well as rate-making. Subdivision (4) of § 15a
was a mandate to the Commission to give due consideration to all the elements of value recognized by the law
of the land for rate-making purposes, and was a warning
to the Commission to give the property investment
account only that consideration to which it was entitled
under the law of the land. The Transportation Act gave
the carriers as property owners a new interest in seeing
that their individual properties were assigned their full
value, especially in view of the recapture provisions, and
Congress sought to emphasize to the Commission the
necessity for taking into consideration all the elements
of value which had long been recognized by the law of
the land. The law of the land as laid down in Smyth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, established no special or restricted
value for rate-making purposes.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

183

Argument for Repondents.

Under the law of the land, specifically adopted by Congress as the test, the value for rate-making purposes is the
actual fair value of all the property used in the public
service, and a valuation which omits part of that property
is not a proper rate base. St. Louis & O'FallonRy. Co. v.
United States, 279 U. S. 461, 484; s. c., diss. op., Brandeis,
J., p. 505.
Congress by no means intended to authorize the Commission to determine two kinds of value for the same
property. It did not contemplate that the value of
property can vary according to the purpose for which it
is to be used. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 449,
451; Los Angeles & S.-L. R. Co. v. United States, 8 F. (2d)
747; rev. on another ground, 273 U. S. 299; Kansas.
City Sou. Ry. Co. v. United States, 19 F. (2d) 591; rev.
on another ground, 275 U. S. 500. Section 19a contemplates but-one valuation and that valuation is to be used
for various purposes involving the individual properties
of each carrier as against those of-other carriers.
Valuation of incorporeal property is essential even in
rate-making groups.
Mandamus is the proper remedy.
The Commission has not fully exercised its jurisdiction.
Interstatt Commerce Commn. v. Humboldt S. S. Co., 224
U. S. 474, 484.
The Commission had no discretion in respect of its
duty. If a statute invests a public officer with discretion
as to what he shall do, mandamus does not lie to compel
him to exercise that discretion in a particular way. If,
however, the statute, instead of investing him with discretion to determine what he shall do, directs that he shall do
certain things, his erroneous interpretation of the meaning of the statute will not protect him from a writ of
mandamus commanding him to perform his duty according to the true meaning of the statute. Roberts v.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287U.S.

United States, 176 U. S. 221, 231; Wilbur v. Krushnic,
280 U. S.306.
MR. JUSTICE CARDoZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Company, and other railroad companies subject to its control,
the group making up together the New York, New Haven
and Hartford System, and collectively described as "the
carrier," petitioned the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a writ of mandamus directed to the
Interstate Commerce Commission and commanding the
Commission to include the value of the carrier's inferests
in the tracks of the New York and Harlem Railroad
Company from Woodlawn to Forty-third Street in the
City of New York, in the Grand Central Terminal in that
city, and in the land and buildings of the Boston Terminal Company, as part of the inventory and valuation
required by § 19a of the Interstate Commerce Act. 37
Stat. 701, c. 92; 49 U. S. C., § 19a. The Supreme Court
of the District dismissed the petition.. Its judgment was
reversed by the Court of Appeals, 60 App. D. C. 403;
55 F. (2d) 1028, and a writ of certiorari brings the case
here.
The carrier operates lines of railroad in Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York, Its tracks
enter the state of New York at or near Port Chestert and
at Woodlawn connect with the tracks of the New York
and Harlem Railroad Company, now operated under lease
by the New York Central System. From Woodlawn
south to the Grand Central Station, a distance of about
twelve miles, the carrier's passenger trains run over the
Harlem tracks; and the carrier and the Central use the
station in common. At Boston, Massachusetts, the carrier's tracks connect with those of the Boston Terminal
Company, the owner of the South Station in Boston; and

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

185

Opinion of the Court.

the carrier has the use of that station in common with
other lines. The facts bearing upon its interest in the
Harlem tracks and the Grand Central Terminal will be
considered first, and afterwards those bearing upon its
interest in the terminal at Boston.
On March 17, 1848, an "agreement and contract of
transportation" was entered into between the New York
and Harlem Railroad Company and the New York and
New Haven, a predecessor of the carrier. By this contract; the Harlem granted to the New Haven the right
"to run their trains, engines and cars for the transportation of passengers, mails, expresses, freight, etc., over the
track or tracks of the road of the New York and Harlaem
Railroad Company from the point of junction aforesaid
to and into the city of New York." The New Haven was
to furnish its own haulage and to pay the Harlem "as
full compensation for the use and occupation of their
track or tracks as aforesaid, a certain sum for each passenger transported," and a portion of the tariff rates received
for the transportation of express matter and the mails.
Compensation was to be adjusted every five years by
agreement, or in the event of failure to agree, by arbitration. Following the execution of this contract, and on
March 29, 1848, the legislature of New York passed an
act to amend the charter of the New York and Harlem
Railroad Company. In § 6 of that act, it confirmed the
validity of the contract with the carrier's predecessor.
"The New York and New Haven Railroad Company is
hereby authorized to enter upon and run their cars and
engines for passengers, freights, mails, expresses and other
business, over the road of the New York and Harlem Railroad Company, from the point of junction of the roads of
said companies at or near William's Bridge, in the County.
of Westchester, to the City of New York, and as far into
the said city as the said Harlem Railroad may extend,
upon such terms, and to such point as has been or may

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

hereafter be agreed upon by and between said companies,
a copy of such agreement or agreements to be duly authenticated and filed in the office of the Secretary of State
of this state." Promptly upon the enactment of this
statute, the New Haven connected its line with the tracks
of the Harlem, and ever since that time-has run its trains
over them into the City of New York. The Harlem on
April 1, 1872, leased its road to the New York Central for
a term of 401 years, the lease reciting that it was subject
to the contract between the Harlem and the New Haven.
From a statement of the facts as to the carrier's interest
in the tracks south of Woodlawn we pass to a consideration
of its interest in the Grand Central Terminal. An agreement described as a "tripartite lease" was entered into
on November 1, 1872, between the Harlem, the Central
and the New Haven whereby the Harlem leased to the
other roads the use of certain parts of the Grand Central
Depot (a building since then destroyed) and the adjacent
yards. On July 24, 1907, this agreement was superseded
by another tripartite lease between the same parties.
The Central agreed at its sole expense to acquire the
lands and make all the changes necessary for the construction of a new station; the present' Grand Central
Terminal. Acting for itself and the Harlem, it leased to
the New Haven during the term of the New Haven's
charter (i. e., in perpetuity) the "use, in common with
the Central Company, subject to all the provisions of
this agreement, of the said Railroad Terminal for the
accommodation of the traffic of the New Haven Company, other than freight traffic," with the proviso that
the New Haven's right to the use of the terminal should
in no event exceed fifty per cent of the maximum capacity. As "compensation for the premises hereby demised," the New Haven was to pay to the Central that
proportion of four and one-quarter per cent interest on
the cost of construction and of the annual expenses for

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

187

Opinion of the Court.

maintenance and operation "which the use of the Railroad Terminal by the New Haven Company bears to
the entire use thereof." The terminal was to be under
the direction of a terminal manager appointed by the
presidents of the Central and New Haven Companies
and removable by either.
Next in order is a statement of the interest of the
carrier in the terminal at Boston. By an act of the
Massachusetts legislature, approved June 9, 1896, the
Boston Terminal Company was incorporated !'with power
to construct and. maintain a. union passenger station in
the southerly part of the City of Boston, and to provide
and operate adequate terminal facilities for the five railroad companies entering the city and for the accommodation of the public." These railroad companies, including the New Haven, were severally authorized to subscribe for the capital stock in equal amounts.: Upon the
completion of the proposed improvements, the five railroads were to use the station and its terminal facilities
for all their terminal passenger business in Boston, and
were to pay to the Terminal Company the amounts necessary to satisfy the expenses of the corporate administration and of the maintenance and operation of the station and other facilities, together with interest on the
bonds and a dividend not to exceed four per cent on the
capital stock. The payments by the several mads were
to be proportioned to the use, and were to be deemed to
be a part of their operating expenses. At the time of the
trial, the New. Haven, having succeeded to the interests
of some of the other roads, held in its ownership or subject to its control eighty per cent of the Terminal stock,
the remaining twenty per cent being controlled by the
Central.
With this statement of the facts as to the carrier's interests in the tracks and terminals, we reach the question
whether the Commission was under a clear duty, enforce-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

able by mandamus, to include those interests with a specific valuation in the statutory inventory.
By § 19a of- the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U. S.
Code; Act of March 1, 1913, c. 92, 37 Stat. 401, as
amended), there is laid upon the Commission the colossal
task of preparing an inventory and valuation of the property of the railroads of the United States.'
Subdivision a of the section is sweeping in its extension.
"The Commission shall ... investigate, ascertain, and
report the value of-all the property owned or used by
every common carrier subject to the provisions of this
act." It "shall make an inventory which shall list the
in detail, and show the value thereof as
property ...
hereinafter provided, and shall classify the physical property, as nearly as practicable in conformity with the classification of expenditures for road and equipment, as prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission."
Subdivision b contains directions as to the method of
showing values and thus fulfils the promise of subdivision
a that such directions as to form will be "hereinafter
provided."
The provisions are distributed into five classes.
Under the heading "first," there is a command to the
Commission to "ascertain and report in detail as to each
piece of property, other than land, owned or used by said
common carrier for its purposes as a commoncarrier, the
original cost to date, the cost of reproduction new, the
cost of reproduction less depreciation, and an analysis of
the methods by which these several costs are obtained
and the reason for their differences, if any."
For convenience of reference this part of the directions
that are grouped under the heading "first" wini be described as number one.
%The events leading up to the adoption of the act and the public

policy it was designed to further will be found dearly stated in Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission, Vol. 1, pp. 117 to 137.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

189

Opinion of the Court.

Under the same heading there is, however, anqther
part which will be identified as number two.
"The Commission shall in like manner ascertain and
report separately other values, and elements of value, if
any, of the property of such common carrier and an
analysis of the methods of valuation employed, and of the
reasons for any differences between any such value and
each of the foregoing "cost values."
The division described as "second" contains directions
for a report of the original cost and present value of
lands, rights of way and terminals separately from improvements.
The "third" division deals with the valuation of property held for purposes other than those of a common
carrier; the "fourth" with the financial history and corporate structure of the carriers; and the "fifth" with
the ascertainment and valuation of governmental aids or
gifts.
By subdivision c the Commission is empowered, except
as otherwise provided, "to prescribe the 'method of procedure to be followed in the conduct of the investigation,
thp form in which the results of the valuation shall be
submitted, and the classification of the elements that
constitute the ascertained value."
The Commission at an early stage in its labors was
confronted with the problem as to the proper method of
valuation where there was a division of interest between
the ownership and the use. The first exposition of its
views upon that subject will be found in a decision made
July 31, 1918, in the matter of the valuation of the Texas
Midland Railroad, 75 I. C. C. 1, 20, 121, 122. The substance of its ruling there was that where property is
jointly used by two owners, the details will appear in the
inventory of each; that where property is owned by one
carrier, and exclusively used by another, the details will
appear in the inventory of the- owner, but. in addition

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

the value will be shown in the inventory of the user,;
that where a carrier owns and uses property but gives
to some other carrier not the exclusive use but only a
qualified use in common with itself, such as the right to
use its tracks, the fact and nature of the use will be described in the inventory of both the owner and the user,
but the value of the property will be reported in the inventory of the owner sclely. "The physical property,"
said the Commission (p. 124), "is not changed by this
dual use." "The law requires the ascertamment 'of
values for property: owned or used, but not the value of
the use." 75 I. C. C. 24. Despite the comprehensive
command to report the value of all the property owned
or used by any common carrier subject to the act, there
is still, so the Commission held, some latitude of judg-.
ment as to the extent to which the component elements
of worth are to be separated, and a specific valuation
allocated to each.
The Commission has steadfastly adhered to these principles in the fulfilment of its task. Along the lines there
charted, a thousand inventories and reports have been
made, it is said, during the nineteen years that have gone
by since the Valuation Act was passed. Cf. .Report of
the I. C. C. for 1931, p. 68. In only one instance, except
this, has the method, so far as we are informed, been
challenged in the courts as a departure from the statute;
and there mandamus was refused. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commn., 6 F. (2d)
692. Cf. Matter of Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 75
I. C. C. 223,234. What was done in this-inventory has
at least that sanction of validity which is born of long
administrative practice. United States v. Moore, 95 U. S.
760, 763; Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627; Brewster v.
Gage, 280 U. S. 327, 336; Fawcus Machine Co. v.
United States, 282 U. S. 375, 378. In confornity with
that practice the Commission overruled the protest of the

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

191

Opinion of the Court.

carrier, and held that the trackage rights over the Harlem
roadbed and the rights of user in the New York and Boston terminals would be reported in the inventory as valuable rights or interests belonging to the carrier, but without assigning to them a specific value separate from the
value given to the system as a whole. Like "going concern value" and that of many other intangibles, the value
of these qualified privileges of user, falling short of ownership or full possession of the physical thing, was not
excluded altogether as an element to be reflected in the
ultimate appraisal. Cf. Texas Midland R. R. Case, 75
I. C.' C. 1, 69. What was held was no more than this,
that the contribution of such factors was not a separate
thing of value to be segregated from all the other values
inhering in a unified system of railroad operation, and
ticketed by itself. "We report all the costs which are
specifically named in the valuation act, on which" we can
obtain tangible data, and we find a single sum value after
a consideration of those tangible costs and the intangible
elements of value which inhere in a fully organized and
operating property." Cf. Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des
Moines, 238 U. S. 153, 165; McCardle v. IndianapolisCo.,
272"U. S. 400, 414. These are the words of the Commission in answering the carrier's objection that the going
concern value had not been separately stated. Its answer
might have been the same if it had been meeting the objection that privileges of user, incapable of appraisal in
terms of the cost of. the thing used, had been described in
the inventory without specific appraisal of the value of
the use.
We are thus remitted to the question whether this
method of classification, accredited to us, as it is, with all
the authbrity springing from administrative practice, is
a departure from agy duty created by the statute, :or, more
accurately, from any duty so peremptory and unmistakable as to be enforceable by mandamus. True indeed it

.OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

-

287 U.S.

is that by the express direction of the statute there is to
be a valuation of all the property owned or used by any
carrier subject to the act. We do not travel very far upon
the road to a solution of our problem by repeating that
command. A valuation there is to be, for so it is commanded in subdivision a, but only "as hereinafter provided," and to discover what is "hereinafter provided,"
we must look to subdivision b. If there is nothing in subdivision b calling for the separate classification and appraisal of the value of a right to use, then the duty so to
classify and appraise is not created by the statute, and
certainly not created in any clear and peremptory way.
We must distinguish between the ultimate result to be
attained by the preparation of the, inventory and the details of form and method prescribed for its attainment.
To admit that there must be a valuation of the whole is
not equivalent to admitting that a separate and specific
valuation must,be allocated to every kind of property interest -6mbraced within the whole. To what extent a
group of'interests shall be resolved into its elements is
thus a question of degree. If a barren literalism were to
guide'us, subdivision could be carried down to the dimensions of an atom. We are not to push the mandate to "a
drily legical extreme." Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219
'Q. S..104, 110. A roadbed and a terminal are property,
but so are license privileges, and contracts *for supplies,
and rights in personam as well as those attaching to a res.
Was it-the meaning of the lawmakers that rights and interests such as these were to have a value specifically assigned to them apart from their relation to the "going
value" of the business? Not even' counsel for the carrier
would have-us go so far. By concession there are forms
of property which are to be considered by the Commission
as contributions to a larger whole, and not as things apart.
We .were told upon the argument that the interests in the
Harlem tracks might have been omitted from the inven-

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

193

Opinion of the Court.

tory if they had been licenses, and nothing more. Specific
valuation became necessary because, in the view of counsel, the interests had their basis in a franchise or an easement. A like distinction was drawn in respect of the interegts in the terminals. They might have been omitted
from the inventory, however great their value, if the privilege of use had been derived from a contract giving rise
to a. mere license. The omission of a specific valuation
became wrongful, it was argued, if the interests amounted
to a title or estate. The Commission declined to go into
these niceties. "It is . . . not necessary for us to determine whether the right of use in the carrier is best
defined by reference to it as a license to use, an easement
or a trackage- right." We shall practise a like restraint,
observing only in passing that the proper classification is
obscure (Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 564, 582, 583; Union Pacific
R. Co. v. Mason City & Ft. Dodge R. Co., 222 U. S. 237,
247, 248), *and that the carrier by its own conduct has
admitted the obscurity. In its annual reports to the Commission, starting in 1888 and including the year preceding
the beginning of this suit,. its interests in the Harlam
tracks and in the New York and Boston terminals are reported under "class 5," which is described in the report
as including " all tracks operated and maintained by others, but over which the respondent has the right to operate
some or all of its trains. In roads of this class, the
respondent has no proprietary rights, but only the rights
of a, licensee." What concerns us at the moment, however, is not the fitness or the unfitness of'one classification
or another. What matters for present purposes is the
carrier's concession that the command to prepare an inventory in which all the property shall be valued does not
mean that every property interest shall be separately
valued. Something, then, is to be abated from the dictates of an implacable literalism allowing no exceptions.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

At one point or another a line of division has to be drawn
between the-property to go in ,and the property to stay
out. The location of the line will involve considerations
of legislative intention and administrative judgment.
Division being necessary, did the members of the Commission ignore a plain and certain duty in making it
where they did?
In our summary of the statute, the provisions under
the heading "first" of subdivision b were separated into
two parts, described as numbers one and two. Part number one was intended to procure the valuation of a railroad
considered as a physical thing. Every "piece of property" is to be inventoried, and with reference to every
"piece" so inventoried the Commission is to ascertain
the investment in the thing, and the cost of producing it
anew. The factors have been made familiar by historic
litigations. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; St. Louis &
O'Fallon Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 461. But
the statute does not mean that there shall be a duty to
appraise in terms of'cost if the interest to be appraised
is such that the cost of the thing is without relevance as
a criterion of the value of the interest. There can be no
plain and certain duty, enforceable by mandamus to proceed to a valuation that will be a snare or a deception.
Here th New Haven has not invested anything in the
roadbed or the terminals. It is not affected for good or ill
by fluctuations in the cost of building them anew. Whatever the legal'category in which its interests are to be
placed, the value is independent of the cost of the thing
in which those interests inhere. Plainly untenable is its
contention that the amount to be allowed to it is the proportion of the cost value of the property that would result from a division of such value between itself and the
Central in the ratio of use. 30 I. C. C. Val. Rep. 1 at
pp. 31, 33. Such a method of appraisal ignores the millions of dollars payable year by year in perpetuity to keep

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R: CO.
178

195

Opinion of the Court.

the privilege alive. It treats as an investment what is
merely a contingent debt. The value of the trackage
rights, whether one views them as amounting to a license
or an easement, is not the cost of the roadbed, but the
difference between the value of the use and the rent to
be paid therefor. The value of the interests in the terninals, whatever the proper name for them, must be
.measured in the same way. Today, under the Transportation Act of 1920, the Commission may compel a
carrier owning terminal facilities to grant to other carriers the use of such facilities, including main line tracks
for a reasonable .distance, in return for a compensation
prescribed as just and reasonable. 49 U. S. Code 3 (4).
For allthat appears the rights now in controversy might
continue to be enjoyed thbugh the agreements set forth
in the record were to be rescinded or annulled, and enjoyed at a smaller cost, if a rental lower than the existing one were to be fixed by the Commission. Be that
as it may, the value for the New Haven is not the valu
of the thing or piece of property owned or used, or of
any fractional interest therein. The value for the New
Haven is the value of the use, which is measured by the
difference between the rent payable under the lease and
the fair and reasonable rent that would be the compensation payable to the owner in the absence of agreement.
There is nothing to indicate that the carrier laid testimony before the Commission as to what this difference
would be. Cf. Texas Midland Railroad Case, 75 I. C., C.
1, 24. It took its stand upon the positiona that pro tanto,
in proportion to.its use, it was the owner of the fee.
The argument will be made, however, that the Commission is inconsistent. Appraisal on the basis of cost -has
been thought to be suitable where the lessee has a possession exclusive of the owner. Why, then, is it not suitable
also where the interest of the lessee is in common with
the owner, and this though the interest fluctuates from

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

-

287 U.S.

day to day with the measure of the use? No doubt the
practice of the Commission has been what the argument
assumes. The practice has been, as we have already
pointed out, when the possession of.a lessee is exclusive
of the possession of the owner, to inventory leased property in the name of each of them, setting down for each
the original and the reproduction cost of the subject matter of the lease, setting down the fact of use, and making
allowance thereafter for any increase or deduction due by
reason of such use when costs are readjusted and corrected
to express the final values.2 Never -upon the face of the
inventory has there been a specific valuation of the interest
of the lessor and that of the lessee considered as estates
in the land and structures and apart from the valuation
of the property demised. The Commission has been unfaltering in its adherence to the principle that the value
to be repprted is the value of the thing, and not of every
interest connected with the thing. Whenever the nature
of a lease is such that' the cost of what is leased may
appropriately be taken as an index of the value of the
leasehold, the inventory and the valuation have been
made upon that basis. Whenever the interest has been
such that cost is not an index, the test of cost has been
rejected. In the application of these methods there has
been no discrimination between this carrier and others.
In the inventory now in controversy there are properties
owned by the New Haven, and wholly leased to other
lines, and properties owned by other lines, and wholly
leased to the New Haven. For all these properties the reproduction cost is set forth in the inventory of the New.
Haven System without specific appraisal of the value of
the reversion as. an interest subject to the lease, or the
value of the lease as an interest distinct from the rever-The .practice is explained by Mr. Esch, formerly Valuation Analyst
of* the Commission, in an article "Valuation of Leased Railroad
Property." 33 Yale L. J. 272, 276, 277.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

197

Opinion of the Court.

sion. The New Haven itself is thus the beneficiary of the
principle that the inventory is to set forth- the value of
the thing, and not of every interest touching the enjoyment of the thing.
We recur, then, to the question why the method of appraisal that has been thought to be appropriate where a
lessee has the sole use may not be followed here Also
where in common with the owner the lessee has an undivided interest in the use of tracks and terminals in
return for yearly payments. Perhaps a sufficient answer
is that it is never mandatory on the Commission to value
the interest of any lessee on the basis of the cost, though
such a method may in certain circumstances be appropriate as an exercise of discretion. But other answers
are available, if this be thought inadequate. There can
be no doubt that even in its application tb a sole lessee,
the method of valuing a lease on the basis of the cost of
the property demised is at best a rough and ready approximation. Even so, the formation of a-rate base byl
treating a lessee as owner and measuring a fair return of'
income as a percentage of the cost may yield a reasonable
average of accuracy where the interest of the lessee is constant and the rentals that it pays are excluded from the
computation of its operating expenses. Such exclusion
is required by the accounting rules of the Commission
where the lessee has the sole use. The practice is different, however, where a carrier has the benefit of jointfacilities. There the rentals paid for the use of the facilities are part of the operating expenses, and were so treated
in the case at hand. This treatment of them has the
support of statute (Transportation Act, 1920; 49 U. S. C.,
§ 15a [1])' as well as of administrative practice. A car8, The term 'net railway operating income' means railway operating income, including in the computation thereof debits and credits
arising from equipment rents and joint facility rents."
There is a like direction in the act incorporating the Boston
terminal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

rier receives a duplication of benefits if it is permitted to
include its rentals as an operating expense while earning
a return upon the value of an unincumbered fee.4
Aside from this objection, a lease which gives to the lessee, not exclusive possession of the property demised, nor
even a fixed share, but a share fluctuating from time to
time with the variations of the business, is too uncertain
and inconstant to be valued with even approximate correctness by the test of the cost of the property subjected
to the use. The Commission was satisfied to adopt the
formula of cost where the lease was such as to lead it to
believe that the margin of error would not be inordinately
large.' Nothing in the statute makes it mandatory to
apply the same forihula, inaccurate at best, to leases of a
different nature if the margin of error would thereby be
increased.' Nor is there anything in the objection that
by force of § 15a of the Transportation Act, 1920, a form
of inventory. permissible under § 19a of the Valuation
Act of 1913 is permissible no longer. The Act of 1920
'Esch, Leased Railroad Property, supra, at p. 274.
S"Nott only-s the matter of proportion of use at any particular
moment largely speculative, but it varies from time to time." Esch,
supra, at pp. 278, 279.
'Upon a hearing before the Senate Committee, Senator La Follette,
the Chairman, inquired of a witness, Prof. Commons, as to the proper
method of valuation where property was leased. The answer was in
substance that such a case might be taken care of in either one of two
ways, by valuing the property as if it were owned by the lessee or by
making allowance for the rent as an operating expense, and that it

would be the function of the Commission to determine the preferable
method in any given situation. The members of the Committee
appiarently acquiesced. Senator La Follette adverted to the possibility
of a double valuation if one railroad had the privilege of running its
trains over the tracks of another, and added that, of course, only one
valuation would be proper. Physical Valuation of Property of Common Carriers, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, 62nd
Congress, 3rd Session, Senate Library, Vol. 15, No. 6, pp. 128 and 129.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

199

Opinion of the Court.

authorizes the Commissiof to "utilize the results of its
investigation under § 19a" of the Interstate Commerce
Act for certain additional purposes "in so far as deemed
by it available." 49 U. S. Code, § 15a (4). There is
nothing in the new statute to suggest that earlier inventories are to be revised, or that forms of valuation lawful
in the past are to be unlawful in the future.
What has been written serves, we think, to show that
the interests in controversy are not affected by that part
of subdivision b of the statute which we have identified
as number one. The question remains whether a specific
valuation is made mandatory by the provisions of the
part identified as number two. "The Commission shall
in like manner ascertain and report separately other
values, and elements of value, if any, of the property
of such common carrier and an analysis of the methods
employed, and of the reasons for any differences between
any such value and each of the foregoing cost values."
The carrier did not build its case on that command in
making proof to the Commission. It took the position,
on the contrary, that it was an owner of the roadbed
and the terminals in proportion to its use and made its
proof accordingly. See Matter of New York, New Haven
& Hartford R. Co., 30 Val. Rep. I. C. C. 1, 31, 32, 33.
There can surely have been no breach by the Commission
of an inflexible and certain duty in omitting from an
inventory a separate and specific estimate of the difference between the value of the use and the rents reserved
to the lessors when the protest of the carrier was silent as
to what the valuation ought to be. The result will be
the same, however, though this defect be overlooked.
The command to report other elements of value does not
impose a duty, inflexible and certain, to appraise the
value of a use which is unrelated to the value of what
is subject to the use. The ends to be attained are differ-

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ent. They can be gathered from a report of the Senate
Committee on Interstate Commerce submitted to the
Senate in February, 1913. 62nd Congress, 3rd Session,
No. 1290, p. 8. The report begins with a consideration
of the three criteria of value that are stated in part one
of subdivision b: first, original cost; second, cost of reproduction new; third, cost of reproduction, less depreciation.
From these it passes to a consideration of the effect and
pjurpose of part two, prefacing the discussion with the
title "other values and elements of value; that is, intangible values."
"This classification," the report continues,
"provides for going value, good will value, and franchise
value. Whether any or all of these values will be considered by the Commission or the courts in determining
the fair value of the property, and if so, what importance
shall attach to them is a matter for the Commission and
the courts. Especially as to intangible values, the Commission and the courts are in a transition period. The
elements of value which -will finally constitute fair value
for rate-making purposes are steadily narrowing. They
are not expanding. No. decision by Commission or court
will stand which is ultimately found to be unfair to the
public or to the common *carrier; The committee has,
it is believed, provided for ascertaining every element of
value which, upon recognized authority, should be considered." Congress had no thought to tie the hands of
the Commission by imposing a peremptory duty to
classify in any particular way the factors supplementing
or modifying the significance of cost, and to allocate to
each a- specific value. The report makes it clear that
Congress did not know what those factors were, and that
the Commission, guided by the courts, was to work out
in its own way a practical and fair result. Whatever
duty was' imposed had its basis in a general admonition
which left a wide and indefinite margin of judgment as
to the method-of obedience.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

201

Opinion of the Court.

In the light of these ccnsiderations, the aim of the
statute in bidding heed to be given to other elements of
value than those of cost alone, is readily discerned. Its
aim is to afford play for the correction of the errors
certain to result where the value of a railroad is identified
with the cost of its component parts without reference
to the values generated or extinguished by the union of
the parts into a single and organic whole. Effects that
are the resultant of two or more forces working in combination may be capable of appraisal when it would be
difficult, if not impossible, to estimate the consequences
of any one of the forces operating singly. For an illustration of this truth we have only to bear in mind the
obscure and varied factors, psychical as well as physical,
that enter into the creation of the "going value" of a
business. Not infrequently the value of these intangibles
will be an aggregate made up of elements too deeply
interpenetrated for any specific figure to be set opposite
to one of them dissevered from the others. What is true
of "going value" is true of roadbeds and stations,- of
trackage rights and rights in terminals. , As soon as one
passes beyond an appraisal of the cost, the -increments
or the deductions involve estimates of relation, the parts
being worthless or nearly so unless adapted to the whole.
Not a mile of track would be worth the cost of reproducing it, nor a trackage right the rental, if there were not
stations at either end. Not a station-would be worth the
cost of building it anew if there were not roadbeds or
tracks or trackage rights beyond. The final value set
dowvn in the report of the Commission shows that over and
above the cost of reproduction less depreciation, something has been added, in appraising the property of the
carrier, to express the value of the whole as distinguished
from the total of the parts. Not even the depreciated
reproduction cost, let alone something in addition, would

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

have been reported as the final value if the road had
been viewed as a congeries of fragments. To argue that
the Commission ignored these intangibles altogether because it failed to value them specifically is to miss the
significance of the whole process of appraisal. Every
trackage contract and every terminal use, in so far as it
contributes to the unity of the system, is reflected in the
final value ascribed to the physical things that are listed
in the inventory. The Harlem trackage contract is there
reflected, for the reproduction cost would cease to be a
measure of the value if the trains stopped short at Woodlawn. The rights in the New York and Boston terminals
are there, for again the reproduction cost would be of no
avail as a criterion if there were no terminal facilities for
passengers at Boston or New York. The question is not
whether trackage rights and rights in. terminals are interests that the Commission is at liberty to treat as nonexistent. The question is whether they are interests of
such a kind that they must be specifically valued instead
of being viewed as factors that enter by infusion into the
lifeblood of the organism. If there is anything in the
statute requiring values of that order to be separately
stated, the carrier has not pointed to it. In the absence
of such a duty, nothing in the report of valuation justifies
a holding that any property interest was excluded altogether. "We have given careful consideration," said
the Commission, "to all facts of record and pertaining
to the value of the common-carrier property of the
carrier as an organized, developed, well-maintained, seasoned property in operation' as a going concern." Many
diverse elements, reacting one upon another, have
been. fused in an act of judgment drawing its sustenance
from all.
A-word may yet be due with reference to those provisions of subdivision b of the statute which are set forth

L C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

203

Opinion of the Court

under the heading "second."- "Such investigation and
report," it is there said, "shall state in detail and separately from improvements the original cost of all lands,
rights of way and terminals owned or used for the purposes of a common carrier and ascertained as of the time
of dedication to public use, and the present value of the
same." The rights of way there in view are those that
involve an investment of the moneys of the carrier, and
result in the possession of the land itself, the roadbed on
which the tracks are laid. Georgiav. CincinnatiSouthern
Ry. Co., 248 U. S. 26, 28. They do not include the privilege of hauling cars for a rental over the roadbed of another.
What is true of rights of way is true also of terminals.
If the New Haven has no interest in the improvements
constituting the roadbed and the terminal stations sufficient to require a specific valuation of its interests under
parts one and two of subdivision "first," it has none
sufficient to require such valuation under subdivision
"second."
"
We do not go beyond the necessities of the case before
us in shaping our decision. Whether an inventory such
as this one, omitting a specific valuation of important
rights and interests, gives full or adequate effect to the
intention of the lawmakers, we are not required to determine. In later or collateral controversies that, question
may be pertinent. For the purpose of this case, it is
enough to hold, as we do, that the duty of specific valuation, if it exists, has been imposed upon the Commission
too vaguely and obscurely to be enforced by a mandamus.
United States ex rel. Redfield v. Windom, .137 U. S. 636;
Wilbur v. United States ex rel. Kadrie, 281 U. S. 206.
One cannot rise from a study of the statute in the setting
of its history and of the administrative practice under it
and hold at the end an assured belief that the Commission
has been commanded by the Congress to do the act omit-

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

-

287 U.S.

ted. Where a duty is not plainly prescribed, but is to be
gathered by doubtful inference from statutes of uncertain
meaning, "it is regarded as involving the character of
judgment or discretion," (Wilbur v. United States ex rel.
Kadrie, supra), and mandamus is thereby excluded. The
case at hand differs in essentials from Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commn., 252 U. S.
178, where a specific, unequivocal command, removed
after the decision by an amendment of the statute, was
laid upon the Commission to value a particular thing, and
the Commission ignored the command to the extent of
refusing to hear any evidence whatever. The ruling in
that suit has been explained in later cases, and confined
to its peculiar facts. Interstate Commgerce Commission
v. Waste Merchants Association, 260 U. S. 32, 35; United
States v. Los Angeles & Salt Lake R. Co., 273 U. S. 299,
311.
Public policy forbids that the work of the Commission
in the fulfilment of the stupendous task of valuation shall
be hampered by writs of mandamus except where the departure from the statute is clear beyond debate. The
report is not a stage in a judicial proceeding affecting this
carrier or others. "It is the exercise solely of the function of investigation." United States v. Los Angeles &
Salt Lake B. Co., supra, p. 310. The final valuations
made in it will indeed be prima facie evidence against the
carrier in proceedings under the Commerce Act. 49 U. S.
C. § 19a (1). Even so, the opportunity to contest them,
if at ariy time they a,'e introduced in evidence, is "fully
preserved to the carrier, and any error therein may be corrected at the trial." United States v. Los Angeles & Salt
Lake R. Co., supra, p. 313. The valuation of the railroads of the country has been ordered by the Congress in
See Act of June 7, 1922, c. 210, 42 Stat. 624.

I. C. C. v. NEW YORK, N. H. & H. R. CO.
178

205

Dissent.

the belief that this new "Domesday Book" will promote
an important public purpose. Nearly twenty years have
passed since that belief found expression in the enactmeht
of the statute, and the work is still unfinished. Report
of the I. C. C. for 1931, p. 68. In the meantime the enactment of § 15a of the Transportation Act of 1920 has
made the need for valuation more imperative than ever.
49 U. S. C., § 15a. In any work so vast and intricate, what
is to be looked for is not absolute accuracy, but an accuracy that will mark an advance upon previous uncertainty. If every doubt as to the extent and form of valuation is to be dispelled by mandamus, the achievement of
the ends of Congress, already long deferred, wili be put
off till the Greek Kalends.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia is reversed, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court dismissing the petition affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McRPYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND are unable to con-

cur in this decision. But, as the decision is put distinctly
on the.ground that the specific duty sought to be enforced
by mandamus is not so definitely and plainly described
by the statute as to justify the application of that remedy,
and the question whether the inventory in controversy,
omitting a specific valuation of important rights and interests, gives full or adequate effect to the intent of the
statute, is not determined but distinctly reserved for
future contestations, they deem it sufficient to say at this
time that they regard the reasons atsigned by the Court
of Appeals for its judgment as sound and requiring an
affirmance of its judgment.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no
part in the consideration and decision of this case.

