OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

287 U.S.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. SUNBURST
OIL & REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MONTANA.

No. 53.

Argued November 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. Where the state law prescribeg freight rates through a Board but
allows a shipper who has paid at a rate so fixed an action for overcharges when the Board, afterwards, on his complaint and on sufficient evidence, finds such rate excessive and lowers it for the future,
judgment for the shipper does not impair any federal right of the
railroad, since the law, making the rate thus tentative, was the basis
of the contract of shipment. Pp. 360-361.
2. The result is the same whether the tentative character of the rate,
and the right of recovery, are expressed in the words of the statute
or were attached to it by a construction of the state supreme court
before the parties contracted. P. 362.
3. If a statute as construed by the state court does not impair a
party's federal right, a decision applying the construction to him
on the ground of stare decisis but rejecting it for future cases can
not do so. P. 363.
4. It is for the state courts to decide whether changes in their .views
of the common or statutory law shall apply to intermediate trans"actions. P. 364.
5. A federal claim first raised by petition for rehearing in a state court
is in time for purposes of review if the occasion for it arose unexpectedly from the grounds of the state court's decision. P. 366.
91 Mont. 216; 7 P. (2d) 927, affirmed.
CERTIORARI:*

to review the affirmance of a judgment

against the railway company in a suit for overcharges.
Mr. J. P. Plunkett, with whom Mr. R. J. Hagman was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George E. Hurd submitted for respondent.
*See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUNBURST CO.
358

359

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE C~ADo o delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Sunburst Oil & Refining Company, the respondent,
brought suit against petitioner, Great Northern Railway
Company, to recover payments claimed to be overcharges
for freight. The charges were in conformity with a,tariff
schedule approved by the Railroad Commission of Montana for intrastate traffic. After payment had been
made, the same Commission which had approved the
schedule held, upon a complaint by the shipper, that the
rates so approved were excessive and unreasonable. In
this action to recover the excess so paid, the shipper recovered a judgment which was affirmed upon appeal.
91 Mont. 216; 7 P. (2d) 927. The question, broadly
stated, is whether the annulment by retroaction of rates
valid when exacted is an unlawful taking of property
within the Fourteenth Amendment. A writ of certiorari
brings the case here.
By a statute of Montana the Board of Railroad Commissioners is empowered to fix rates of carriage for intrastate shipments. The rates thereby established are not
beyond recall. They may be changed by the Board itself
on the complaint either of shipper or of carrier if found
to be unreasonable. Revised Codes of Montana, § 3796.
In an action against the Board they may be set aside upon
a like showing by a judgment of the court. §§ 3809, 3810.
Until changed or set aside, they "shall prima facie be
deemed to be just, reasonable and proper." § 381i0.
The meaning of the statute was considered by the
Supreme Court of Montana in a cause determined in May,
1921. Doney v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 60 Mont. 209;
199 Pac. 432. A shipper of lumber brought suit against
a carrier to recover transportation charges which were
alleged to be unreasonable, though they were in accord-

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ance with the published tariff. He did this without a
preliminary application to the Board to modify the schedule. He did it without a preliminary suit in which the
Board, being brought into court as a defendant, would
have opportunity to sustain the schedule and resist the
change. The court held that until one of these preliminary conditions had been satisfied, no action for restitution could be maintained against the carrier. It coupled
that decision with the statement that upon compliance
with one or other of the conditions, the excess, thus 'ascertained, might be the subject of recovery. The procedure there outlined was followed by this
respondent. It filed a complaint with the Board to the
effect that the existing tariff for the carriage of crude
petroleum distillate was excessive and unreasonable in
that the rate of 201/2 cents was based upon an estimated
weight of 7.4 pounds per gallon, whereas the actual
weight is not more than 6.6 pounds per gallon. The
Board sustained the complaint. In doing so it ruled, in
conformity with' the decision in the Doney case, that
the published schedule prescribed the minimum and the
maximum to which carrier and shipper were required to
adhere while the schedule was in force, but that by the
true construction of the statute the duty of adherence
was subject to a condition or proviso whereby annulment
or modification would give a right of reparation for the
excess or the deficiency. The revision of the tariff was
followed by this suit against the carrier, and later by a
judgment for the shipper which, is now before us for
review.
The appeal to the Supreme Court of Montana was
heard at the same time as an appeal in another cause
involving a like question, and the two were decided together though with separate opinions. Montana Horse
Products Co. v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 91 Mont. 194;
7 P. (2d) 919; Sunburst Oil & Refining Co. v. Great

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUNBURST CO.
358

361

Opinion of the Court.

Northern Ry. Co., 91 Mont. 216; 7 P. (2d) 927. The
court held that the ruling in the Doney case was erroneous and would not be followed in the future; that a
rate established by the Commission had the same effect
as one established by the legislature; that the statute
giving power to the Commission or the court to declare a
rate unreasonable was not to be read as meaning that a
declaration of invalidity should apply to intermediate
transactions; but none the less that the ruling in the
Doney case was law until reversed and would constitute
the governing principle for shippers and carriers who,
during the period of its reign, had acted on the faith of
it. An opinion handed down upon a motion for rehearing
restates the rationale of the decision, and perhaps with
greater clearness. 91 Mont. 213, 7 P. (2d) 926; 91 Mont.
221, 7 P. (2d) 929. We are thus brought to the inquiry
whether the judgment thus rendered does violence to any
right secured to the petitioner by the federal constitution.
The subject is likely to be clarified if we divide it into
two branches. Was a federal right infringed by the action
of the trial court in adhering to the rule imposed upon it
in the Doney case by the highest. court of the state? If
there was no infringement then, did one come about later
when the.Supreme Court of Montana disavowed the rule
of the Doney case for the future, but applied it to the
past?
1. The trial court did not impair- a federal right by
giving to a statute of the state the meaning that had been
ascribed to it by the highest court of the state, unless
such impairment would have resulted if the naeaning had
been written into the statute by the legislature itself.
But plainly no such consequence would have followed if
that course had-been pursued. The Doney case was decided, as we have seen, in 1921. The transactions complained of occurred between August, 1926, and August,
1928. Carrier and shipper understood at that time that

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

the rates established by the Commission as the delegate
of the legislature were provisional and tentative. Valid
for the time being the rates indubitably were, a prop for'
conduct while they stood, but the prop might be removed,
and charges, past as well as present, would go down at
the same time. By implication of law there had been
written into the statute a notice to all concerned that
payments exacted by a carrier in conformity with a published tariff were subject to be refunded if found thereafter, upon sufficient evidence, to be excessive and unreasonable. The Constitution of the United Stites would
have nothing to say about the validity of a notice of that
tenor written in so many words into the body of the act.
Carrier and shipper would be presumed to bargain with
each other on the basis of existing law. Coombes v. Getz,
285 U. S. 434. The validity of the notice is no less because it was written into the act by a process of construction. Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 32.
The inquiry is irrelevant whether we would construe the
statute in the same way if the duty of construction were
ours and not another's. Knights of Pythias v. Meyer,
supra, p. 33. Enough for us that the construction,
whether we view it as wise or unwise, does not expose the
court that made it to the reproach of withholding from
the carrier the privileges and immunities established by
the constitution of the nation.
Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
284 U. S. 370i holdsnothing. to the contrary. This court
in disposing of that case was not dealing with any questi6n of constitutional law. It was construing a federal
statute. Congress had delegated to the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to fix rates and to revoke
them. The holding was that the grant of power to revoke
did not include by fair intendment a power to invalidate
by relation the rates established in the past. The opinion of the court does not speak of the constitution, but

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUNBURST CO.
358

363

Opinion of the Court.

plants itself upon the statute, and from that source and
no other derives its energy. In none of its pages is there
-a hint, much less a holding, that a denial of due pr6cess
would result from the declaration of provisional rates if
the will to make them provisional had been written into
the Commerce Act, and written there in advance of carriage, and of payment. The essence of such a system
is that under it rates can be "experimentally laid down
and experimentally tried out." Hutcheson, J., in Eagle
Cotton Oil Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 51 F. (2d) 443, 447.
The statute of Montana differs in many ways from the
act considered by this court. We do not need to ask ourselves the question whether the differences, to'our thinking, are important or trivial. There might be no
differences at all, and still the meaning of the Montana
statute would be a problem for the Montana coirt,
and not one for us after they had had their say.
2. If the carrier did not suffer a denial of due.process
through the action of the trial court in subjecting the
published *tariff to the doctrine of the Doney case then
standing unimpeached, the petitioner, to prevail, must
be able to show that a.change was brought about through
something done or omitted by the Supreme Court of
Montana in deciding the appeal.
We think the posture of the case from the viewpoint
of constitutional law was the same after the decision of
the appeal as it was after the trial.- There would certainly have been no denial of due process if the court
in affirming the judgment had rendered no opinion or
had stated in its opinion that the Doney case was approved. The petitioner is thus driven to the position
that the Constitution of the United States has been infringed because the Doney case was disapproved, and
yet, while disapproved, was followed. Adherence to precedent as establishing a governing rule for the past in
respect of the meaning of a statute is said to be a denial

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

of due process when coupled with the declaration of an
intention to refuse to adhere to it in adjudicating any
controversies growing out of the transactions of the future.
We have no occasion to consider whether this division
in time of the effects of a decision is a sound or an unsound application of the doctrine of stare decisis as known
to the common law. Sound or unsound, there is involved in it no denial of a right protected by the federal
constitution. This is not a case where a court in overruling an earlier decision has given to the new ruling
a retroactive bearing, and thereby has made invalid what
was valid in the doing. Even that may often be done,
though litigants not infrequently have argued to the contrary. Tidal Oi1 Co. v. Flanagan, 263 U. S. 444, 450;
Fleming v. Fleming, 264 U. S. 29; Brinkerhoff-Faris Co.
v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 680; cf. Montana Bank v. Yellowstone County, 276 U. S. 499, 503. This is a case where
a court has refused to make its ruling retroactive, and
the novel stand is taken that the constitution of the
United States is infringed by the refusal.
We think the federal constitution has no voice upon
the subject. A state in defining the limits of adherence
to precedent may make a choice for itself between the
principle of forward operation and that of relation backward. It may say that decisions of its highest court,
though later overruled, are law none the less for intermediate transactions. Indeed there are cases intimating,
too broadly (cf. Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan,supra), that
it must give them that effect; but never has doubt been
expressed that it may so treat them if it pleases, whenever
injustice or hardship will thereby be averted. Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Douglass v. County of Pike, 101
U. S. 677, 687; Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179
U. S. 472, 492; Harris v. Jex, 55 N. Y. 421; "Mengesv.
Dentler, 33 Pa. St. 495, 499; Commonwealth v. Fidelity &
Columbia Trust Co., 185 Ky. 300; 215 S. W. 42; Mason v.
Cotton Co., 148 N. C. 492, 510; 62 S. E. 625; Hovem v.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUNBURST CO.
358

365

Opinion of the Court.

4jcCarthy Bros. Co., 163 Minn. 339; 204 N. W. 29; Farrior v. New England Mortgage*Security Co., 92 Ala. 176;
.9 So. 532; Falconerv. Simmons, 51 W. Va. 172; 41 S. E.
193.1 On the other hand, it may hold to the ancient
dogma that the law declared by its courts had a Platonic
or ideal existence before the act of declaration, in which
event the discredited declaration will be viewed as if it
had never been; and the reconsidered declaration s law
from the beginning. Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan,supra;
Fleming v. Fleming, supra; Central Land Co. v. Laidley,
159 U.-S. 103, 112; see, however, Montana Bank v. Yellowstone County, supra.2 The alternative is the same
whether the subject of the new decision is common law
(Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan,supra) or statute. Gelpcke v.
Dubuque, supra; Fleming v. Fleming, supra. * The choice
for any state may be determined by the juristic philosophy of the judges of her courts, their conceptions of law,
its origin and nature. We review not the wisdom of their
philosophies, but the legality of their acts. The State ofMontana has told us by the voice of her highest court
that with these alternative methods open to her, her
preference is for the first. In making this choice, she is
declaring common law for those within her borders. Thecommon law as administered by her judges ascribes to
the decisions of her highest court a power to bind and
loose that is unextinguished, for intermediate 'transactions, by a decision overruling them. .As applied to iuch
transactions we may say of the- earlier decision that it
has not been overruled at all. It has been translated
into a judgment of affirmance and recognized as law anew.
'Other cases have been collected in the writings of learned authors:
Von Moschzisker, Stare Decisis in Courts of Last Resort, 37 Harv.
L. Rev. 409, 421; Freeman, Retroactive Operation of Decisions, 18
Col. L. Rev. 230; Carpenter, Court Decisions and the Common Law,'
17 Col. L. Rev. 593; also 29 Harv. L. Rev. 80.
2
Cf. Gray, Nature and Sources of the Law, §§ 535-550; Holmes, J.,
in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S.349, 371.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

Accompanying the recognition is a prophepy, which may
or may not be realized in conduct, that transactions arising in the future will be governed by a different rule. -If
this is the common law doctrine of adherence to precedent as understood and enforced by the courts of Montana, we are not at liberty, for anything contained in the
cofistitution of the United States, to thrust upon those
courts a different conception either of the binding force
of precedent or of the meaning of the judicial process.
There. is still to be considered a question of jurisdiction
which has been reserved till this stage of the opinion,
for the answer to it becomes easier after a consideration
of the merits has brought into clear relief the challenge
,to the judgment. The first mention of the Fourteenth
Amendment to be found in the record is in the petition
for rehearing, where also there is a statement that the
constitutional question was presented on the first hearing of the appeal and is now renewed and amplified.
The answer to the petition for rehearing by counsel for
the respondent is -also in the record and contains what is
in substance an. admission that the constitutional point
had been duly made at the time and in the manner stated
by the moving party. The court in denying the application did so by reference to its opinion on a similar motion in a companion suit decided at the same time
(Montana Horse Products Co. v. Great Northern Ry.
Co., supra), and nowhere in that opinion did it contest
the statement of counsel that the effect of the Fourteenth
Amendment had been argued at every stage. We have
then in the record what is in essence the stipulation of
counsel followed by the acquiescence of" the court.
Whether this without more avoids the application of the
general rule that a constitutional question is urged too
late if put forward for the first time upon a petition for
rehearing (American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, ante, p. 156;
Godchaux Co. v. Estopinal, 251 U. S. 179), we are not

CORTES v. BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE.
358

367

Syllabus.

required to determine, for here there is more, and that
enough to bring the case within a well-recognized exception. The rule, general as it is, does not extend to cases
where the constitutional question, however tardily raised,
is considered and decided (Consolidated Turnpike Co. v.
Norfolk & 0. V. Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 326, 334; Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board, 284 U. S. 23), nor does it apply
where the grounds of the decision supply a new -and
unexpected basis for a claim by the defeated party of
the denial of a federal right. Brinkerhoff-Faris Trust &
Savings Co. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 678; Missouri ex rel.
Missouri Insurance Co. v. Gehner, 281 U. S. 313, 320;
American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, supra. This case is
clearly within the second of these exceptions, if it is not
also withiin the first. We have seen that the assault
upon the judgment is made along two lines. The first
is a challenge to the constitutional validity of the ruling.
in the Doney case, and involves a misconception of the
decision in Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co., supra. The second is a challenge to the constitutional validity of the ruling in this case whereby the
statute is adjudged to mean one thing for some cases
and another thing for others. This'latter objection the
petitioner could not make in advance of the event.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana is
accordingly
_Affirmed.

CORTES, ADMINISTRATOR, U.BALTIMORE INSULAR LINE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 12. Argued November 16, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.
1. Injury suffered by a seaman in the course of his employment, as
the result of failure of the master of the ship to furnish him care
or cure when stricken by pneumonia, is a "personal injury" from

