OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287U.S.

STROTHER v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 105.

Argued November 18, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

Decided in accordance with Bankers Pocahoftas Coal Co. v. Burnet,
ante, p. 308, pursuant to a stipulation of the parties.
55 F. (2d) 626, affirmed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment sustaining a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals, 18 B. T. A. 901, which upheld a ruling of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

Mr. Camden R. McAtee, with whom Mr. Wells Goodykoontz was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, wvith, whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. Whitney North
Seymour, Sewall Key, and Andrew D. Sharpe were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ST6NE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The decision in this case, which is here on certiorari,
turns on that in Bankers PocahontasCoal Co. v. Burnet,
just decided, ante, p. 308.
Petitioner, a stockholder in the Bankers Pocahontas
Coal Co., received dividends upon his stock which were,
to some extent, a distribution of the royalty payments
received -by the corporation and involved in its suit
against the Commissioner. The ruling of the Commissioner in this case, that the amounts so distributed from
royalties were taxable mncome, was upheld by the Board
of Tax Appeals, 18 B. T. A. 901, and by the Court of
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

REICHELDERFER v. QUINN.
314

315

Syllabus.

Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, 55 F. (2d) 626, which
remanded the case to the Board for further proceedings,
to enable the petitioner to offer additional testimony having a bearing on the correct computation of the deficiency,
in accordance with the opinion of the court. The parties
stipulate that the decision of this case shall be controlled
by that of Bankers Pocahontas-Coal Co. v. Burnet, and
the judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.
REICHELDERFER ET AL. v. QUINN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE -COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 9.

Argued October 17, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. Under the Act of Congress authorizing the establishment of'Rock
Creek Park in the District of Columbia, the land$ taken for 'the
park by purchase and condemnation were "perpetually dedicated
and set apart as a public park or pleasure ground for the benefit and
enjoyment of the people of the United States." By Act of a later
Congress, the Commissioners of the District were 'directed to erect
a fire engine house at a designated location in the park. Owners of
'neighboring land, claiming a right, in the nature of an easement,
to have the land used for park purposes and no other, sought to
enjoin the construction. Held:
(1) The neighboring landowners derived no rights against the
Government from the dedication of the park alone, since this constituted only a declaration of Dublic policy by the particular Congress, which was not binding on its successors. P. 318,
(2) Assuming that the building of the engine hoise was a diversion of the land from park uses, the change of use wa. within the.
legislative power. P. 320.
2z The existence of value, alone does not generate interests protected
by the Constitution against diminution by the Government, espedally where the value was both created and diminished as an
incident of the operation of government. P. 319.
3. The Rock Creek Park Act directed that surrounding lands be assessed to the extent that they were "specially benefited by reason

