LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
324

329

Syllabus.

the consular visa on the alien's passport did not entitle
him to entry as a member of the excepted class. Cf.
.United States ex rel. Spinosa v. Curran, 4 F. (2d) 613,
affirmed, 4 F. (2d) 614. The Secretary gave respondent
a hearing and acted on substantial evidence, already detailed, tending to show that by the exercise of reasonable
diligence in making inquify of the alien before sailing, the
respondent could have ascertained that he was not entitled
to admission as a member of the excepted class.
Reversed.
LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA ANONIMA PER
AZIONI v. ELTING, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 48.

Argued November 11, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. On certiorari only so much of the judgment below as was adverse
to*the petitioner is reviewable. P. 331.
2. Section 9 of the Immigration Act of 1917, as amended, which confers upon the Secretary of Labor, as an administrative officer,
authority to impose money penalties upon persons or transportation
companies bringing to the United States aliens afflicted with any of
the diseases therein enumerated,, or with any mental or physical
'defect which may affect his ability to earn a living, when it appears
to the satisfaction of the Secretary that such disease or defect was
existent and discoverable by competent medical -examination at the
time of embarkation, was a valid exercise of the power of Congress.
P. 334.
3. The statute is an incident to the exercise by Congress of its plenary
power to cdntrol the admission of aliens,.and inasmuch as the fines
prescribed are not unreasonable or confiscatory in anount, their
imposition by administrative action, rather than by judicial procedure, does not deny due process. P. 335.
4. In determining liability under the sectidn, the Secretary's conclusion as to the weight of the evidence is final, and his determination
will not be set aside where challenged solely* upon this ground.
P. 338.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

5. Where, in determining liability, the Secretary fails to consider evidence before him, he exceeds his authority; where he relies alone
upon the medical opinion of examining physicians at the port of
entry, without submitting to them facts which might properly have
influenced their opinion, he acts arbitrarily and unfairly; and,. in
either case, his determination must be set aside. P. 339.
6. The statute is violated when an alien not admissible under its
terms is brought to the United States; and a penalty may thereupon be imposed, notwithstanding that the admissibility of the alien
could not be dete'mined in advance of his arrival, or that he was
not seeking to remain here permanently. Elting v. North German
Lloyd, ante, p. 324. P. 340.
7. To secure remission of the fine imposed under § 16 of the Immigration Act of 1924, a transportation company which brought to
the United States a quota immigrant having a nonquota visa, in
violation of that section, has the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Secretary that it could not have been ascertained by
the exercise of reasonable diligence that the alien was a quota
immigrant. P. 341.
55 F. (2d) 1048, reversed in part.
CERTIORARI,

286 U. S. 539, to review a judgment which

affirmed in part and reversed in part a judgment in an
action brought by the. steamship company against the
Collector of Customs to recover fines imposed under the
Immigration Act. Opinion of District Court, 45 F. (2d)
405; see also, 46 F. (2d) 315.
Mr. Delbert M. Tibbetts, with whom Messrs. Gaspare
M. Cusumano and Richard L. Sullivan were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Mr. Paul D. Miller were on the
briefi for respondent.

Mi. JTSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, a steamship transportation company,
brought suit in the District Court for Southern New York,
to 'recover from the Collector of Customs certain fines

LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
329

331

Opinion of the Court.

alleged to have been illega-lj exacted by the Secretary of
Labor under § 9 of the'Immigration Act of 1917, c. 29, 39
Stat. 874, 880, or its amendment by § 26 of the Immigration Act of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 153, 166, 8"U. S. C., § 145.
The complaint stated fifteen causes of action, one for each
fine involved. The trial court directed a verdict for the
petitioner on three causes of action, the 9th, 11th and
15th, and for the respondent on all the others, and gave
judgment accordingly. 45 F. (2d) 405, see also 46 F. (2d)
315. Upon appeal by both parties the judgment of the
District Court was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, 55 F. (2d) 1048, except as to the 15th
cause of action, with respect to which it was reversed. As
certiorari was granted, 286 U. S.539, on petition of the
steamship company alone, only so inuch of the judgment
below as decided in favor of the Collector is brought before us for review. Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific
PaperAssn., 273 U. S.52, 66; The Malcolm Baxter, Jr.,
277 U. S.323.
Section 9 of the Immigration Act, as amended, provides
that:
"it shall be unlawful for any person, including ,ahy transportation company, . .. to bring to the United States
. . .from a foreign country . . . any alien afflicted with
idiocy, insanity, imbecility, feeble-mindedness, epilepsy,
constitutional psychopathic inferiority, chronic alcoholism,
tuberculosis in any form, or a loathsoie or dangerous contagious disease, and if it shall appear to the.satisfaction of
the Secretary of Labor that any alien so brought to the
United States was afflicted with any of the said diseases or
disabilities at the time of foreign embarkation and that
the existence of such disease or disability might have been
detected by means of a competent medical examination
at such time, such person or transportation company . ..
shall -pay to the collector of customs of the customs district in which the port of arrival is located, the sum of

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

$1,600, and in addition a sum equal to that paid by such
alien for his transportation . . . , for each and every violation of the provisions of Whis section, such latter sum to
be delivered by the collector of customs to the alien on
whose account assessed. ...
The same section also makes it unlawful
"to bring to any port of the United States any alien
afflicted with any mental defect other than those above
specifially named, or physical defect of a nature which
may affect his ability to earn a living, as contemplated
in § 3 of this Act, and if it shall appear to the satisfaction
of the Secretary of Labor that any alien so brought to the.
United States was so afflicted at the time of foreign embarkation, and that the existence of such mental or physical defect might have been detected by means of a competent medical examination at such time, such person
shall pay to the collector of customs of the customs district in which the port of arrival is located the sum bf
$250, and, in addition a sum equal to that paid by such
alien for his transportation. .. ."
Between the years 1923 and 1927 the petitioner brought
to the United States in its vessels the thirteen aliens with
respect to whose transportation the fines now in question
were imposed. All were found, upon arrival, to be inadmissible because they were afflicted either with one of the
diseases specified in § 9, or with a physical defect which
might affect the alien's ability to earn a living. In each
case in the proceedings before the Board of Special Inquiry
to pass on the admissibility of the alien, the examining
physicians of the Health Department certified to his diseased condition or disability on arrival, adding: "In our
opinion the condition herein certified might have been
detected by competent medical examihation at the port
of embarkation.", In each instance the petitioner was
notified of the certificate of the medical examiners, advised that such findings indicated its liability to fine

LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
329

333

Opinion of the C6urt.

under § 9 of the Act of 1917 or its amendment of 1924,
and given thirty or sixty days in which to have a hearing.
In each case the petitioner responded to the notice by depositing the amount of the possible fine, in order to secure
clearance of the vessel,' and transmitting an unverified
letter of protest against the imposition of the fine, stating
generally that it was the regular practice of the petitioner
to have each immigrant carefully examined by competent
doctors before embarkation and that, therefore, the disease
or disability either did not exist, at the time of embarkation or could not then have been discovered by means
of competent medical examination or was of such a nature
as could not affect the alien's abilty to earn a living. In
one case, that of Fusco, stated in the tenth cause of action,
the letter of protest was accompanied by affidavits, tending to confirm the statements contained in the protests.
In all thirteen cases fines were imposed by the Secretary
and the funds deposited by petitioner were retained by
the Government.
The "files" or "records" upon which the Secretary of
Labor based his decisions that the fines should be imposed, consisted in general of the transcript of the hearing
and examination before the Board of Special Inquiry at
Ellis Island, in which the admissibility of the alien was
passed upon, which included a reference to the medical
.ertificate, the petitioner's letter of protest and any accompanying documents, and various- communications of
an inter-departmental character relating to the disposition
of the alien by the Secretary.
At the trial in the District Court, the petitioner introduced evidence which had not been presented fo the Department of Labor tending to show that a competent med1

The statute provides that no vessel shall be granted clearance
pending a determination of the question whether the fine should be
imposed, except upon deposit of the amount of the possible fine or of
a bond to secure its payment.

.334

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

ical examination had been made of the aliens at the port
of embarkation and.that the diseases or disabilities, on the
basis of which the fines had been imposed, had not in fact
been discovered and were not discoverable at that time
by such an examination. Although the trial judge
thought that this .evidence tended to show in detail the
thoroughness of the examinations and the competence of
the physicians, he struck out this class of testimony and
held, on the basis of the record made before the Secretary,
that there was evidence supporting his action.
The petitioner contends here, as it did before the courts
below, that the evidence offered at the trial was erroneously excluded; that if § 9 is construed to preclude a
judicial trial of the issues before the Secretary, it denies
to petitioner due process of law and, finally, that in any
case the fifies were not validly imposed, because the Secretary of Labor abused the discretion. reposed in him by
the statute.
The first two objections are untenable. By the words
of-the statate the Secretary's is the only voice authorized
to express the will of the United States with respect to
the imposition of the fines; the judgment of a court may
not be substituted for the discretion which, under the
statute, he alone may exercise. In conferring that authority upon an administrative officer, Congress did not transcend constitutional limitations. Under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, control of the admission of
aliens is committed exclusively to Congress and, in the
exercise of that control it may ]awfully impose appropriate obligations, sanction their enforcement by reasonable
money penalties, and invest in administrative officials the
power to impose and enforce them. Oceanic Navigation
Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320; Passavant v. United
States, 148 U. S. 214; see Hampton & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 394, 406; Navigazione Libera Triestinav. United
States, 36 F. (2d) 631; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272,
275.

LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
329

335

Opinion of the Court.

In Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, supra, this
Court upheld the constitutionality.of § 9 of the Immigration Act of 1903, c. 1012, 32 Stat. 1213, 1215, which is
substantially the same as the present section, except that
it imposed smaller penalties. Petitioner contends that as
the fines have been increased tenfold, the issue of liability
has become so grave that the Stranahancase is no longer
controlling and the imposition of the fines by administrative action is a denial of due process unless opportunity
is afforded at some stage to test their validity in'court by
a trial of the facts de novo.
As was pointed out in the Stranahancase, the .statute
imposing the fines must be regarded as an incident to the
exercise by Congress of its plenary power to control the
admission of. aliens, and due process of law does not
require that the courts, rather than administrative officers,
be charged, in any case, with determining the facts upon
which the irhpositi6n of such a fine depends.. It follows
that as the fines are not invalid, however imposed, because unreasonable or confiscatory in amount, which is
conceded, Congress may choose the administrative rather
than the judicial method of imposing them. Indeed, the
Court rested its decision in Oceanic Navigaiion"Co. v.
Stranahan,supra, on the authority of cases arising under
the revenue laws, authorizing the administrative imposition of civil penalties frequently much greater than those
imposed here. Bartlett v. Kane, 16 How. 263, 274; Passavant v. United States, supra; Origet v. Hedden, 155
U. S. .228; see Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Imp.
Co., 18 How. .272.
The action of the Secretary is, nevertheless, subject to
some judicial review, as the courts below held. The
courts may determine whether his. action is within his
statutory authority, compare Gonzales v. Williams, 192
U. S: 1; Gegiow v. Uhl, 239 U. S. 3, whether there was
any evidence before him to support his determination,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

compare Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration, 273
U. S. 103, and whether the procedure which he adopted in
making it satisfies elementary standards of fairness and
reasonableness, essential to the due administration of the
summary proceeding which Congress has authorized.
Compare Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253 U. S. 454; Tang
Tun v. Edsell, 223 U. S. 673; Chin Yow v. United States,
208 U. S. 8, 12; The Japanese Immigrant Case, 189 U. S.
86, 100, 101; see United States ex rel. Iorio v. Day, 34 F.
(2d) 920; Whitfield v. Hanges, 222 Fed. 745.
The statute plainly authorizes the imposition of the
fine only if it shall appear, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that the existence of the disease or disability for
which the alien was excluded, "might have been detected
by means of a competent medical examination" at the
time of sailing. That § 9 imposed upon the Secretary
the official duty and responsibility of making such a determination was held by both courts below and is not
questioned by the Government. Accordingly, his action
in particular cases is subject to judicial review, within the
limits mentioned. -Whether, as was suggested in the
Stranahan case, supra, 332, 342, Congress, while adhering to the statutory. declaration that the fine is incurred
only when the alien's disease or disability could have been
detected by competent medical examination at the point
of embarkation, might constitutionally provide that the
certificate of the examining physician at the port of entry
should be conclusive as to that fact, we need not determine. We think it clear, despite language in the Stranahar case intimating a different view, that the statute, as
it has been consistently construed administratively,2 con'Ever since the promulgation by the Department of Commerce
and Labor, in January, 1905, of Department Circular No. 58, the
administrative regulations have provided for a hearing. See Immigration Regulations of July 1, -1907, Rule 28, amended December,
1910; Immigration Rules of November 15, 1911, Rule 28, amended

LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
329

337

Opinion of the Court.

templates that the Secretary should fairly determine, after
a hearing and upon the evidence, the facts establishing its
violation.
Hence, we pass to the petitioner's remaining contention, that the action of the Secretary here in determining
liability was arbitrary and unfair. In all of the cases
before us the Secretary's decision was supported by at
least one item of evidence. It was the certified opinion
of the examining physicians of the Health Department,
based upon a physical examination of the alien in the
proceeding in which his admissibility was determined, that
at an earlier date, that of embarkation, the existence of
the disease with which he was afflicted upon arrival might
have been detected by competent medical examination.
This opihion as to the physical condition of the alien at
the time and place of embarkation was not accompanied
by a statement of the facts observed. Nevertheless, it
was some evidence tending to establish the discoverability
of the disease at the time of embarkation.
In all the cases but that of Fusco the evidence presented
to the Secretary, in support of the petitioner's contention
that the disease -or disability could not have been discovered by competent medical examination at the point
of embarkation, consisted of the general statement in the
protests that it was the practice of the company to
conduct such an examination and, in a few instances, that
the alien had received a. consular visa. Petitioner argues
October, 1915; Immigration Rules of May 1, 1917, Rule 28, amended
August, 1922; Immigration Rules of.February 1, 1924, Rule 22; Immigration Rules of July 1, 1925,'Rule 22; Immigration Rules of
March 1, 1927, Rule 22; Immigration Rules of January 1, 1930,

Rule 23.
During this time the general provisions of § 9 of the Act of 1903,
32 Stat. 1213, 1215, have -been regnacted three times. § 9, Act of 1907,34 Stat. 898, 901; § 9, Act of 1917, 39 Stat. 874, 880; § 26, Act of
1924, 43 Stat. 153, 166.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

that the alien must have received a medical examination
in order to secure the visa. But, the protest did not assert
that such was the fact, or invite the Sdcretary to consider
it. No details were presented showing the nature or results of any medical examination claimed to have been
made before sailing.
As the protests were not rejected by the Secretary, the
facts they disclosed were properly before him and were
evidence which, in an administrative proceeding, must be
considered .and acted upon by the administrative officer.
Vajtauer v. United States, supra; Tang Tun'v. Edsell,
supra. But we cannot say, on the records before us, that
the Secretary did not consider them, as such, for what
they were worth, regarding the official medical certificates
as conflicting evidence entitled to greater weight. No
ground exists, therefore, for setting aside his determination
in these cases. The only question is the weight of the
evidence, as to which the Secretary's conclusion is final.
Compare Zakonaite v. Wolf, supra.
In the case of Fusco, affidavits were submitted along
with the protest and the two together tended to show with
some certainty that the alien had been subjected to three
medical examinations shortly before embarkation, once by
the Royal Italian Immigration Service in Naples, once by
a physician there enjoying the confidence of the American
Consul, whose certificate was available to the Secretary,
and once by petitioner's own ship physician, all of whom
found the immigrant in good health.
The letter imposing the fine in the Fusco case does not
show definitely whether the Secretary considered the evidence submitted by petitioner: It recites in one place,
"The alien gave no history of the disease. Indeed, he
was not questioned with regard thereto, and the only evidence in the record is the official certificate itself," and in
-another, "It is believed that the evidence, placed in the
record by the company is not sufficient to call into ques-

LLOYD SABAUDO SOCIETA v. ELTING.
329

339

Opinion of the Court.

tion the accuracy of the opinion expressed in the official
medical certificate." We need not inquire whether this
ambiguity in the record of itself requires the administrative determination to be set aside. Cf. Tod v¢. Waldman,
266 U. S. 113, 119, 120; -Mahlerv. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 43;
Kwock Jan Fat v. White, supra, 464. For the same result must follow if the -record is considered, whichever
way the doubt is resolyed. If the Secretary failed to consider evidence before him, he exceeded his authority. If
he treated the protest and affidavits' as evidence relevant
to the issue of the .discoverability of the immigrant's disease at the time of sailing, but, nevertheless, chose to rely
upon the certified opinion of the examining physicians at
Ellis Islnd, we think that more is involved than the
weighing of the evidence, and that his determination cannot stand. For the medical opinions did not reveal the
facts upon which they were based, and they were formulated by physicians who, so far as appears, were not apprised, of the fact that three previous examinations of the
nature described had been made. The detailed information as to those examinations which petitioner submitted
to the Secretary in this case might reasonably have
affected the expert judgment of the physicians .at Ellis
Islaud. In relying upon their opinion alone, without
putting these additional facts before them, we think the
Secretary acted .arbitrarily and unfairly.
I The Act of Congress confers on the Secretary great
power, but it is not wholly uncontrolled. It is a power
which' must be exercised fairly, to the end that he may
considr. all evidence relevant' to the dete'mination which
hie is required to make, that he may arrive justly at his
conclusion, and preserve such record of his action'that it
may be known that he has performed the duty which the
law commands. Suppression of evidence or its concealment"from a party whose rights are being determined by
the administrative tribunal, has been held to be so unfair

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

as to invalidate the administrative proceeding. Kwock
Jan Fat v. White, supra; Lewis v. Johnso., 16 F. (2d)
ISO. It is equally offensive to conceal from the experts,
whose judgment is accepted as controlling, facts which
might properly have influenced their opinion.
Petitioner makes contentions, with respect to several of
the cases, which require special consideration. They embrace the cases of aliens with physical defects affecting
their ability to earn a living, aliens who came to the
United States with a transit visa for the purpose of passing through the United States to their ultimate destination, Canada., and the case of an alien who came to the
United States to enroll as a member of the crew of a vessel
to be taken back to Italy. All entered or sought to enter
the United States, and all were afflicted with a disease or
disability specified in the statute. That their admissibility
could not be determined in advance of their reaching the
United States, that they were not seeking to remain permanently within the United States, are immaterial in the
face of the express language of the statute, which imposes
the penalty for bringing them here. See Elting v. North
German Lloyd, decided this day, ante, p. 324.
Crimi, who was blind, a disability which might affect
his ability to earn a living, came to the United States as a
student. le had a consular visa under § 4 (e) of the Act
of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 155, 8 U. S. C., § 204, which exempts from the quota students coming to the United
States to attend an accredited school. To exempt the
alien from the quota under § 4 (e), the school which he
comes to attend must have been approved by the Department of Labor, and a list of such accredited schools is supplied to all American consuls. The alien was excluded
because he did not come for the purpose of study at an
accredited school. The petitioner insists that it was entitled, on the basis of the consular visa, to assume that
the alien was admissible. But § 16 of the applicable Im-

COSTANZO v. TILLINGHAST.
329

Syllabus.

migration Act of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 163, 8 U. S. C.,
§ 216, imposes the fine for bringing any quota immigrant;
which Crimi was found to be, having a non-quota visa. It
provides that the fine shall not be remitted or refunded
unless it appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary of
Labor that the vessel or transportation company "could
not have ascertained, by the exercise of reasonable diligence" that the individual transported was a quota immigrant. The consular visa did not make Crimi a nonquota immigrant entitled to enter. Immigration Act of
1924, § 2 (g), 8 U. S. C., § 202 (g). To secure remission
of the fine, the statute placed upon petitioner the burden
of establishing to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that
it could not have been ascertained by the exercise of reasonable diligence that the alien was a quota immigrant.
Compare Elting v. North German Lloyd, supra. We cannot say that the Secretary did not have ground for holding
that reasonable inquiry of the alien or the Consul issuing
the visa would have disclosed to petitioner that the alien
was not coming to the United States for the purpose of
studying in an accredited school.
The judgment will be reversed as to the tenth cause of
action and affirmed as to all the others.
Reversed in part.
COSTANZO v. TILLINGHAST, COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 110. Argued November 17, 18, 1932.-Decided December 5,
1932.
1. Where, in a proceeding in habeas corpus challenging the legality of
an order of deportation under the Immigration Act of 1917, it appears that the action of the Secretary of Labor in issuing the order
was supported by evidence, his findings are not subject to review
by the courts. P. 342.

