COSTANZO v. TILLINGHAST.
329

Syllabus.

migration Act of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 163, 8 U. S. C.,
§ 216, imposes the fine for bringing any quota immigrant;
which Crimi was found to be, having a non-quota visa. It
provides that the fine shall not be remitted or refunded
unless it appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary of
Labor that the vessel or transportation company "could
not have ascertained, by the exercise of reasonable diligence" that the individual transported was a quota immigrant. The consular visa did not make Crimi a nonquota immigrant entitled to enter. Immigration Act of
1924, § 2 (g), 8 U. S. C., § 202 (g). To secure remission
of the fine, the statute placed upon petitioner the burden
of establishing to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that
it could not have been ascertained by the exercise of reasonable diligence that the alien was a quota immigrant.
Compare Elting v. North German Lloyd, supra. We cannot say that the Secretary did not have ground for holding
that reasonable inquiry of the alien or the Consul issuing
the visa would have disclosed to petitioner that the alien
was not coming to the United States for the purpose of
studying in an accredited school.
The judgment will be reversed as to the tenth cause of
action and affirmed as to all the others.
Reversed in part.
COSTANZO v. TILLINGHAST, COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 110. Argued November 17, 18, 1932.-Decided December 5,
1932.
1. Where, in a proceeding in habeas corpus challenging the legality of
an order of deportation under the Immigration Act of 1917, it appears that the action of the Secretary of Labor in issuing the order
was supported by evidence, his findings are not subject to review
by the courts. P. 342.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

2. Section 19 of the Immigration Act of 1917 imposes no period of
limitation with respect to the deportation of an alien found managing a house of prostitution, and an alien may be taken into custody and deported for this cause at any time after entry. P. 343.
3. Rules of syntax should not be so applied in construing a statute as
to defeat the evident legislative intent. P. 344.
4. A statute must be considered in its entirety in order not to give
undue effect to particular words or clauses. P. 345.
5. The failure of Congress to alter or amend a statute, notwithstanding a consistent construction by the department charged with its
enforcement, creates a presumption in favor of the administrative
interpretation, which is entitled to great weight. P. 345.
56 F. (2d) 566, affirmed.

CERTIoRARI * to review the affirmance of a decree dismissing a writ of habeas corpus.
Mr. William H. Lewis for petitioher.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Dodds, and
Messrs. Harry S. Ridgely and Albert E. Reitzel were on
tho brief, for respondent.
MR: JUSTICE RoBERTs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 19 of the Act of February 5, 1917,1 directs, inter
alia,the deportation of any alien who manages a house of
prostitution. The petitioner, a citizen of Italy, was arrested, given a hearing, and ordered deported as such a
manager. By writ of habeas corpus he challenged the legality of the order. The District Court dismissed the writ,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree.
A claim of violation of constitutional rights made in the
court below has been abandoned. The Circuit Court of
Appeals properly negatived the asserted absence of any
evidence to support the action of the Secretary of Labor,
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.Ch. 29, 39 Stat. 874, 889.

COSTANZO v. TILLINGHAST.
341

Opinion of the Court.

and therefore refused, as we do, to review that officer's
findings. Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460, 468;
Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272, 275; Tisi v. Tod, 264 U.
S. 131, 133; Vajtauerv. Commr. of Immigration,273 U. S.
103, 106.
Certiorari was granted to resolve a question as to the
construction of § 19 of the Act of 1917, which the petitioner says authorized deportation for the cause assigned
only within the five years ensuing entry. He entered this
country much more than five years prior to the issuance of
the warrant for his arrest.
The section, containing .nearly nine hundred words, is
a single sentence, divided by semi-colons and colons into
clauses, qualified by five provisos. The opening clause is:
"That at any time within five years after entry, any alien
who at the time of entry was a member of one or more of
the classes excluded by law;" and the predicate or final
clause is, "shall, upon the warrant of the Secretary of
Labor, be taken into dustody and deported." Inserted
between these, and separated from the first and from each
other by semicolons, are eleven subject-clauses each referring to variously dekribed aliens, as "any alien who"
etc., and each having as its predicate the clause above
quoted, "shall be taken into custody," etc. The evident
purpose is to catalogue in one omnibus section the different classes of aliens who may be deported and thus avoid
repetition of the predicate verbs.
The dispute is as to whether the qualifying phrase of
the first clause, "within five years after entry," is to be
carried over from the clause in which it appears and is to
be read into each following subject clause, including that
applicable to the petitioner, or is to be limited in effect to
its own clause. "The petitioner urges that the grammatical structure of the sentence aid the punctuation require
the adoption of the first alternative, while in support of
the second the Government appeals to the evident mean-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 T.S.

ing of the entire section, the legislative history, and settled
departmental interpretation.
It is to be noted that of the eleven clauses following the
first, three contain references to periods of time after entry within which the described aliens may be deported.
Thus, with reference to the classes which may be shortly
defined as "anarchists" and "convicts," the phrase used
is "at any time after entry "; concerning those who have
entered without inspection, the limitation is "at any time
within three years after entry." Respecting the remaining seven categories contained in as many separate clauses
(including that applicable to this case, "any alien who
manages

. . .

any house of prostitution

.

..

; ")

no

words of time are employed. Certainly, then, the five
year limitation of the first clause does not apply to all the
subsequent ones; and since the p)hrase has a proper office
in qualification of the class specified in the clause in which
it appears, its effect should be limited to that class and
not carried over to the others.
It has often been said that punctuation is not decisive
of the construction of a statute. Hammock v. Loan &
Trust Co., 105 U. S. 77; Ford v. Delta&"Pine Land Co.,
164 U. S. 662; Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U. S. 85; United
States v. Shreveport Grain & Elevator Co., ante, p. 77.
Upon like principle we should not apply the rules of syntax to defeat the evident legislative intent.
The meaning of the sentence is made even plainer by
the third proviso, which is:
"Provided,further, That the provisions of this section,.
with the exceptions hereinbefore noted, shall be applicable
to the classes of aliens therein mentioned irrespective of
the time of their entry into the United States: . .
There is nothing upon which this proviso may operate
if such of the preceding clauses as contain no time limitation are qualified by the Words of the first fixing the
limitation at five years; not so, however, if each clause

COSTANZO v. TILLINGHAST.
341

Opinion of the Court.

containing a time limitation is read separately as an exception to the general rule declared by the proviso. We
must look to the whole of the section, in order not to give
undue effect to particular words or clauses (Brown v.
Duchesne, 19 How. 183, 194; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall.
520, 525), and when so read the proviso precludes a construction which would carry into all subsequent clauses
the five year limitation contained in the first.
If more were needed, the legislative history of § 19
shows that it is a compilation of earlier acts specifying
different grounds for deportation; that in the prior legislation affecting aliens managing houses of prostitution,
etc., no time limitation was included and that in combining those acts to form the present section Congress did
not intend to impose a period of limitation with respect
to this cause for deportation.' The administrative interpretation,. as evidenced by the applicable Rules of the
Bureau of Immigration adopted in 1917 and carried forward in later regulations, has been uniform to the effect
that no time limitation is applicable in a case like the
present.3 The failure of Congress to alter or amend the
section, notwithstanding this consistent construction by
tile department charged with its enforcement, creates a
presumption in favor of the administrative interpretation,
to which we should give great weight, even if we doubted
the correctness of the ruling of the Department of Labor.
Fawcus Machine Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 375, 378;
McCaughn v. Hershey Chocolate Co., 283 U. S. 488, 492.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
'Act of March 26, 1910, c. 128, § 2, 36 Stai. 263; Senate Report No.
352, to accompany H. R. 10384 (64th Cong., 1st Sess.).
'Rules of Bureau of Immigration, May 1, 1917 (1st ed., May,
1917), rule 22; 2d ed., November, 1917; 3d ed., March, 1919; 4th ed.,
February, 1920; 5th ed., December, 1920; 6th ed., September, 1921;
7th ed., August, 1922. See, also, Rules of the Bureau of Immigration,*
February 1, 1924, p. 31, and of July 1, 1925, p. 63.

