JOHNSON &-HIGGINS v. UNITED STATES. 459
435

Syllabus.

only because of instigation and inducement by a government officer. To say that such conduct by an official of
government is condoned and rendered innocuous by'the
fact that the defendant had a bad reputation or had previously, transgressed is wholly to disregard the reason for
refusing the processes of the court to consummate an abhorrent transaction. It is to discard the basis of the doctrine and in effect to weigh the equities as between the
government and the defendant when there are in truth
no equities belonging to the latter, and when the rule of
action cannot rest on any estimate of the good which
may come of the conviction of the-offender by foul means.
The accepted procedure, in effect, pivots conviction in such
cases, not on the commission of the crime charged, but
on the prior reputation or some former act or acts of the
defendant not mentioned in the indictment.
The applicable principle is that courts must be closed
to the trial of a crime instigated by the government's own
agents. No other issue, no comparison of equities as between the guilty official and the guilty defendant, has
any place in the enforcement of this overruling principle
of public policy.
The judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court with instructions to quash
the indictment and discharge the defendant.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
in this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur

JOHNSON & HIGGINS OF CALIFORNIA v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 166.

Argued December 9, 1932.-Decided December 19, 1932.

Cargo, while being carried free on an Army transport, was damaged
by water used to put out a fire. Insurers of the cargo having
claimed contribution from the Government, and the Judge Advocate

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

General having advised that the claim was valid, the officer of the
Quartermaster Corps who was responsible for the operation of the
vessel engaged a private firm to prepare a general average statement
for a reasonable compensation. Held that the contract was author-

ized even if the Government was not liable for general average,
since that question was not free from doubt and the duty of preparing the statement lay on the officer and in discharging it he was
entitled to have the assistance of general average adjusters.

74 Ct. Cls. 331, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment rejecting a claim
against the United States for services and expenses in preparing a general average statement.
Mr. Cletus Keating, with whom Mr. Richard L. Sullivan was on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Rugg and Messrs. H. Brian Holland and
W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The material facts as found by the Court of Claims are
these: In December, 1918, fire broke out on the United
States Army Transport Logan bound from San Francisco
to Manila with a general cargo belonging to various owners. The Logan was under the operation, mahagement
and control of the United States. The cargo consisted in
part of military supplies for American troops in Siberia
and the Philippine Islands, supplies belonging to the government, of the Philippine Islands, supplies belonging to
the American Red Cross, and a small amount of personal
property of officers of the United States Army, all of which
was being transported free of charge. In extinguishing
the fire soime of the cargo was damaged by water; and
some or all of the cargo was covered by insurance against
general average losses.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

JOHNSON & HIGGINS v. UNITED STATES.
459

461.

Opinion of the Court.

In August, 1922, the general superintendent and idministrative officer of the Army Transport Service of the
Quartermaster Corps requested the petitioner, a corporation doing business as average adjuster and insurance
broker, to prepare "a - statement of general average in
order that the responsibility, of the various parties concerned may be determined." Attached to this request,
was a communication from the Acting Judge Advocate
General of the United States to the Quartermaster General which referred to the claim of the marine underwriters for contribution in general average and stated: "The
claim being a valid one, it is therefore recommended that
prompt steps be taken to ascertain the amount due the insurance company by way of contribution in general aver-,
age. For this purpose, it is recommended that the matter
be referred to a; general average adjuster." Petitioner
accordingly made its investigation and prepared and submitted to the general superintendent of the Army .Transport Service at San Francisco the usual general average
statement. For this service and incidental disbursements,
petitioner made the "usual, customary and reasonable
charge" and, upon disallowance of the claim by the
Comptroller General, petitioner brought this suit.
The Court of Claims held that the Government was not
liable to contribute in general average and that, in consequence, none of its officers had authority to contract-.
for the preparation of a general average statement. The
Court of Claims dismissed the petition and this Court
granted certiorari.
The Solicitor General, while not formally confessing
error, and while reserving the question whether the Goveminent was liable to contribute in general average, is in
accord with petitioner's contention that the proper officer
of the Government was authorized to employ petitioner
for the purpose stated. We are of the opinion that this
view is correct. In the circumstances, petitioner's right

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

did not depend upon the determination of the liability of
the Government to contribute in general average. The
question of that liability could not be regarded as free
from doubt. The cargo underwriters had made claim for
contribution and the Judge Advocate General of the Army
had advised that the claim was valid. On receiving this
information, it was the duty of the officer responsible for
the operation of the vessel to prepare the general average
statement in order that the basis for adjustment might
be available. Ralli v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 400. That
duty, in this instance, apart from the question of the liability of the Government for general average as to which
it is not now necessary to express an opinion, lay with
the general superintendent and administrative officer of
the Army Transport Service, and in order that he might
properly perform it, he was entitled to avail himself of
the assistance of general average adjusters.
Judgment reversed.
PINELLAS ICE & COLD STORAGE CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 182.

Argued December 12, 13, 1932.-Decided January 9, 1933.

1. A sale by one corporation to another of all of its property for a
money consideration part in cash and the remainder to be paid in
instalments evidenced meanwhile by the oromissory notes of the
vendee, held not to be an "exchange" of property for cash and
"securities" by a "party to a reorganization," within the meaning
of ยง 203 (b) (3) (h) of the Revenue Act of 1926, which provides
that in, the transactions to which it refers the gain or loss shall not
be considered in computing the income tax of the transferor. P. 468.

