OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

348

Syllabus.

287 U.S.

SHAPIRO v. WILGUS ET AL., RECEIVERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 40.

Argued November 10, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. To prevent disruption of his business by suits of hostile creditors
and to caue the assets to be nursed for the benefit of'all concerned,
a debtor in Pennsylvania, where the law permits appointment of a
receiver for the business of a corporatiop, but not for that of an
individual, caused a corporation to be formed in Delaware and conveyed to it all of his property in exchange for substantially all of
its shares and its covenant to assume payment of his debts. Three
days later, joined with a simple contract *creditor,he sued the corporation in a federal court in Pennsylvania, invoking jurisdiction on
the.ground of diversity of citizenship, and, with the consent of the
corporation, obtained on the same day a decree appointing receivers
and enjoining executions and attachments. Held:
(1) That the conveyance and the receivership were fraudulent
in law as against non-assenting creditors. P. 353.
(2) A creditor who shortly after the decree- brought an action
resulting in a judgment against the debtor in a Pennsylvania state
court, was entitled to an order either for payment out of the assets
held by the receivers or for leave to issue execution. P. 357.
(8) Refusal to grant relief in either of these forms was an abuse
of discretion. Id.
2. A conveyance made with intent to hinder and delay creditors,
though with no intent to defraud them,, is illegal under the Statute
of Elizabeth (13 Eiz., c. 5) and under the Uniform Fraudulent
Conveyance Act, adopted in Pennsylvania. P. 354.
3. In any case not covered by the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance
Act, in Pennsylvania, the Statute of Elizabeth is still the governing
rule. Id.
4. It is a general rule in the federal courts that a creditor who seeks
appointment of receivers must first reduce his claim to judgment
and exhaust his remedy at law- P. 355.
5. Departures from this rule, though allowed in some cases where the
defendAnt acquiesces, are to be jealously watched. P. 356.
55F- (2d) 234, reversed.

SHAPIRO v. WILGUS.
348

Argument for Respondents.

CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 538, to review the affirmance of
an order refusing permission to levy an execution from,
a state court upon property in possession of receiver
appointed by. the federal court.

Mr. Jacob Weinstein for petitioner.
Mr. Sidney E. Smith for the respondents.
There was no attempt to substitute the corporation as
debtor. Nothing was done which deprived, or was intended to deprive, any creditor of the security afforded by
the assets as they existed immediately before the formation of the corporation. In the face of the assumption of
the liabilities by the corporation, the petitioner could not
claim that the property was placed beyond the 'reach of
creditors.
The formation of the corporation and the transfer to it
of the assets was not a " conveyance," as that word is used
in §§ 2, 4 and 5 of the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance
Act. If, however, it be assumed that the legislature intended that the changing of one's method of doing business
should be considered a "conveyance," in no way-does this
transaction fit the other requirements of the Act.
It is not asserted that Robinson was made insolvent by
the transfer to the corporation. On the contrary, he was
solvent after the transfer by the sum of $100,000.00.
Nowhere is it alleged that any fictitious value had been
placed upon the assets transferred. He received two valuable considerations for this "conveyance ": capital stock
of the corporation, and the agreement of the corporation
to assume all liability for and to pay every debt that
Robinson owed.
Robinson did not evidence any intention to engage in
any business or transaction other than the business in
which he had theretofore been engaged. He maintained
complete and sole control of the business. It is admitted

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondents.

287 U.S.

that his very purpose was to continue the business which
he had theretofore carried on as an individual with exactly
the same assets.
The application for the appointment of a receiver for
the corporation is not evidence of an intent to defeat the
claims of Robinson's creditors or to hinder and delay
them fraudulently. The effect of the appointment was to
make it impossible for Robinson or anyone else to remove
the assets from the reach of creditors. All of the property, subject as it was to liability for all of the debts,
was thereby placed in the hands of the Court which held
it for the benefit of all parties interested and as their
rights then existed.
The petitioner at the time of this action had no lien

or claim against the specific property. Even if there had
been a fraudulent transfer in fact, the petitioner would
have been compelled to institute an action in order to acquire a lien against the fund. To say that under the circumstances this petitioner is entitled to the demand he

makes, would be to controvert the thoroughly grounded
rule that one of the purposes of a receivership is the
restraining of indiscriminate levies and executions, in

order that the property involved may be preserved from
dissipation and waste and equal distribution be made to
those entitled.
It is settled law in Pennsylvania that a transaction
which has for its object the payment of all creditors, and
which places them on an equal footing, is not fraudulent.
Wilt v. Franklin, 1 Binn. 502, 513, 515; Lippincott v.
Barker, 2 Binn. 174, 183, 184; M'Allister v. Mar8hall, 6
Binn. 338, 347; M'Clurg v. Lecky/, 3 P. & W. 83, 91; York
County Bank v. Carter;38 Pa. 446,453; Bentz v. Rockey,
69 Pa. 71,76, 77; Lake Shore Banking Co. v. Fuller, 110
Pa. 156, 162, 163; Wetner v. Zierfuss, 162 Pa. 360, 365,
366; MlIer v. Shriver, 197 Pa. 191, 195; Shibler v. Hartley, 201 Pa. 286, 287, 288; Love v. Clayton, 287 Pa. 205,
215.

SHAPIRO v. WILGUS.
348

Opinion of the Court.

Some of the cases cited above go to the extent of holding that the transaction is valid notwithstanding that
particular creditors are preferred.
The formation of the corporation did not operate to
confer a colorable jurisdiction upon the district court of
the United States. Jud. Code, § 37; U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 80,
is inapplicable. Black & White Taxicab Co. v. Brown &
Yellow Co., 276 U. S. 518, 524, 525; Re Metropolitan Ry.
Receivership, 209 U. S. 90, 110, 111.
Miller & Lux v. East Side Canal Co., 211 U. S. 293;
Southern Realty Co. v. Walker, 211 U. S. 603; Lehigh
Mining Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327, are not applicable to
the present case. In all of those cases there was an actual
fraud on the court. In none was the nominal plaintiff
the real party in interest. In all, control of the litigation
and the property remained in the hidden parties. In the
case at bar, both parties plaintiff had a real and substantial interest and were acting to protect their respective
separate interests. Nothing appears to justify the contention that the formation of the corporation was for the
purpose of obtaining a receivership. The reverse is demonstrated by the admitted fact that Robinson originally
formed the corporation for the purpose of continuing in
corporate form the business in which he had engaged. The
parties are actual parties in interest and the subject matter presented in the applibation for appointment of the
receivers was real and substantial
The objection that the complainant McLean was improperly joined as a party complainant for the reason
that he is a simple contract creditor is without foundation.
Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U S: 491.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, a judgment creditor of Herbert P. Robinson, made application in due form to a United States

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

District Court in Pennsylvania praying that leave be
granted him to levy an execution upon property in the
possession of receivers appointed by that court. An order
refusing such leave was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit. 55 F. (2d) 234. The case
is here on certiorari.
From the record and the admissions of counsel these
facts appear. Herbert P. Robinson was engaged in business -inPhiladelphia as a dealer in lumber. He was
unable to pay his debts as they matured, but he believed
that he would be able to pay them in full if his creditors
were lenient. Indeed, he looked for a surplus of $100,000
if the businesi went on under the fostering care of a
receiver. Most of the creditors were willing to give him
time. Two creditors, including the petitioner, were unwilling, and threatened immediate suit. Thus pressed,
the debtor cast about for a device whereby the business
might go on and the importunate be held at bay. He
had to reckon with obstructions erected by the local law.
The law of Pennsylvania does not permit the appointment of a receiver for a business conducted by an individual as distinguished from one conducted by a corporation or a partnership. Hogsett v. Thompson, 258 Pa.
St. 85; 101 Atl. 941. To make such remedies available
there was need to take the title out of Robinson and put
it somewhere else. The act responded to the need. On
January 9, 1931, the debtor brought about the formation
of a Delawarecorporation, the Miller Robinson Company.
On the same day he made a conveyance to this company
of -all is property, real and personal, receiving in return
substantially all the shares of stock and a covenant by
the grantee to assume the payment of the debts. Three
days later,: on January 12, 1931, in conjunction with
.a simple contract creditor, he brought suit against the
Delaware corporation in the federal court, invoking the
jurisdiction of that court on the ground of diversity of

SHAPIRO v. WILGUS.
348

Opinion of the Court.

citizenship. The bill of complaint alleged that creditors
were pressing for immediate payment; that one had
entered suit and was about to proceed to judgment; that
the levy of attachments and executions would ruin the
good will and dissipate the assets; and that the business,
if protected from the suits of creditors and continued
without disturbance cQuld be made to pay the debts
and yield a, surplus of $100,000 for the benefit of stockholders. To accomplish these ends. there was a prayer for
the appointment of receivers with an accompanying injunction. The corporation filed an answer admitting.
all the averments of the bill and joining in the prayer.
A decree, entered the same day, appointed receivers as
prayed for in the complaint, and enjoined attachments
and executions unless permitted by the court. Four days
thereafter, on January 16, 1931, the petitioner began suit
against Robinson in the Court of Common Pleas, and
on February 4, 1931, recovered a judgment against his
debtor for $1,007.65 upon a cause of action for money
loaned: On February 26, 1931, he submitted a petition
to the United States District Court in which he charged
that the conveyance from Robinson to the corporation
and the ensuing receivership were parts of a single scheme
to hinder and delay creditors in their lawful suits and
remedies, and he prayed that he be permitted to issue
a writ of fieri facias against the chattels in the possession
of. the receivers and to sell them so far as necessary for
the satisfaction of his judgment. The petition was
denied, and the denial affirmed upon appeal.
The conveyance and the receivership are fraudulent in
law as against non-assenting creditors. They have the
unity of a common plan, each stage of the transaction
drawing color and significance from the. quality of the
other; but, for convenience, they will be considered in
order of time as if they stood apart. The sole purpose of
the conveyance was to divest the debtor of his title and

354

OCTOBERI TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

put it in such a form and place that levies would be
averted. The petition to issue execution and the answer
by the receivers leave the purpose hardly doubtful.
Whatever fragment of doubt might otherwise be left is
dispelled by the. admissions of counsel on the argument
before us. One cannot read the opinion of the Court of
Appeals without seeing very clearly that like admissions
must have been made upon the argument there. After
a recital of the facts the court stated in substance that
the aim of the debtor was to prevent the disruption of the
business at the suit of hostile creditors and to cause the
assets to be nursed for the benefit of all concerned. Perceiving that aim and indeed even declaring it, the court
did not condemn it, but found it fair and lawful. In this
approval of a purpose which has been condemned in
Anglo-American law since the Statute of Elizabeth (13
Eliz., ch. 5), there is a misconception of the privileges and
liberties vouchsafed to an embarrassed debtor. A conveyance is illegal if made with an intent to defraud the
creditors of the grantor, but equally it is illegal if made
with an intent to hinder and delay them. Many an embarrassed debtor holds the genuine belief that if suits can
be staved off for a season, he will weather a financial
storm, and pay his debts in full. Means v. Dowd, 128
U. S. 273, 281. The belief, even though well founded,
does not clothe him with a privilege to build up obstructions that will hold his creditors at bay. This is true in
Pennsylvania under the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance
Act, which became a law in that state in 1921. Purdon's
Pennsylvania Digest, Title 39, § 357. It is true under
the Statute of Elizabeth (13 Eliz., ch. 5) which, in any
case not covered by the later act, is still the governing
rule. Purdan's Penn sylvania Digest, Title 39, §361;
McKibbin v. Martin, 64.Pa. St. 352, 356; Stern,'s Appeal,
convey64 Pa. St. 44, 450. Tested by either act, this
ance may not stand. Hogsett v. Tlionipson, swpra; Mont-

SHAPIRO v. WILGUS.
348

Opinion of the Court.

gomery Web Co. v. Dienelt, 133 Pa. St. 585; 19 Atl.
428; Atlas Portland Cement Co. v. American Brick &
Clay Co., 280 Pa. St. 449; 124 Atl. 650; In re Elletson Co.,
174 Fed. 859, affirmed 183 Fed. 715; Kimball v. Thompso, 4 Cush. 441, 446; Dearing v. McKinnon Dash Co.,
165 N. Y. 78; 58 N. E. 773; Means v. Dowd, supra.
The conveyance to the corporation being voidable because fraudulent in law, the receivership must share its
fate. It was part and parcel of a scheme whereby the
form of a judicial remedy was to supply a protective
cover for a fraudulent design. Harkin v. Brundage, 276
U. S. 36; Decker v. Decker, 108 N. Y. 128, 135, 15 N. E.
307. The design would have been ieffective if the debtor
had been suffered to keep the business for himself.
Hogsett v. Thompson, supra. It did not gain validity
when he transferred the business to another with a
capacity for obstruction believed to be greater than his
own. The end and aim of this receivership was not to
administer the assets of a corporation legitimately conceived for a normal business purpose and functioning or
designed to function according to normal business methods. What was in view was very different. A corporation created three days before the suit for, the very pur*pose of being sued was to be interposed betweeen its
author and the creditors pursuing him, with a restraining
order of the court to give check to the pursuers. We do
not need to determine what remedies are available for
the conservation of the assets when a corporation has
been brought into existence to serve legitimate and normal ends. Ordinarily a creditor who seeks the appointment of receivers must reduce his claim to judgment and
exhaust his remedy at law. The Uniform Fraudulent
Conveyance Act may have relaxed that requirement in
many of the states (Purdon's Pennsylvania Digest, Title
39, §§ 351, 359, 360; cf. New York Debtor and Creditor
Law, Article 10; Consol. Laws, c. 12; American Surety Co.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

v. Conner, 251 N. Y. 1; 166 N. E. 783), but the rule in
the federal courts remains what it has always been.
Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 497; Scott
v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106; Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron
Co., 156 U. S. 371, 379; Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S.
521, 529. True indeed it is that receivers have at times
been appointed even by federal courts at the suit of
simple contract creditors if the defendant was willing to
waive the irregularity and to consent to the decree. This
.is done not infrequently where the defendant is a public
service corporation and the unbroken performance of its
services is in Wfurtherance of the public good. Re Metropolitan Railrzay Receivership, 208 U. S. 90, 109, 111.
It has been done at times, though the public good was
not involved, where legitimate private interests might
otherwise have suffered harm. United States v. Butterworth-Judson Corp., 269 U. S. 504, 513; Krugsport Press
v. Brief English Systems, 54 F. (2d) 501; Harkin v.
Brundage, supra, p. 52. We have given warning more
than once, however, that the remedy in such circumstances
is not to be granted loosely, but, is to be watched with
jealous eyes. Michigan v. Michigan Trust Co., 286 U. S.
334, 345; Harkin v. Brundage, supra. Never is such a
remedy available when it is a, mere weapon of coercion,
a means for the frustration 6f the public policy of the
state or the locality. It is one.thing for a creditor with
claims against a corporation that is legitimately his debtor
to invoke the -ail of equity to conserve the common fund
for the benefit of himself and of the creditors at large7
Hollins v. Brze rfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S. 371, 380.
Whatever hmidrnce and delay of suitors is involved in
such a remedy may then be incidental and subsidiary.
It is another thing for a debtor, cooperating with friendly
creditors, to bring the corporation into being with the
hindrance and delay of suitors the very aim of its
existence. The power to intervene before the legal

SHAPIRO v. WILGUS.
348

Opinion of the Court.

remedy is exhausted is misused :when it is exercised in
aid of such a purpose. Only exemplary motives and
scrupulous good faith will wake it into action.
The receivership decree assailed upon this record does
not answer to that test: We have no thought in so holding to impute to counsel for; the debtor or even to his
client a willingness to participate in conduct known to be
fraudulent. The candor with which the plan has been
unfolded goes far to satisfy us, without more, that they
acted in the genuine belief that what they planned was
fair and lawfuL Genuine the belief was, but mistaken it
'was also. Conduct and purpose have a quality imprinted
on them by the law.
There remains a question of procedure. The prayer of
the petitioner was that he be permitted to issue execution upon his judgment in the state court. Cf. Viswall v.
Sampson, 14 How. 52. If there had been any substantial
doubt that the conveyance. and the receivership were
voidable obstructions, the federal court might have refused to permit the tangle to be unraveled in the courts
of the state. It might have retained the controversy in
its own grasp and made a decision for itself. But in truth
there was no substantial doubt as to the quality of conveyance and receivership, no genuine issue to be tried.
In such circumstances the petitioner was entitled to an
order in the alternative either for the payment of his
judgment out of the assets in the hands of the receivers
or in default thereof for leave to- issue execution. The
refusal to grant relief in one or other of these forms is
a departure from the bounds of any legitimate discretion
which is not without redress.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.

