STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
.241

Syllabus.

and complete, and may be exercised upon its own motion
and upon such knowledge as it may derive from any
source which it may deem proper, and is not exhausted
or limited by adverse action taken by a previous grand
jury, and that a United States district attorney may present, without leave of court, charges which a previous
grand jury has ignored. The necessary effect of the district
court's order, it was said (pp. 412-413), "was to bar the
absolute right of the United States to prosecute by subjecting the exercise of that right, not only as to this indictment but as to all subsequent ones for the same-offenses, to a limitation resulting from the exercise of the
judicial power," and to bar the lawful authority of the
United States attorney and of the grand jury "by the
application of unauthorized judicial discretion." These
observations are pertinent here.
Rule made absolute.

STEPHENSON

ET

Ar. v. BINFORD ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 326. Argued November 14, 15, i932.-Decided December
5, 1932.

1. The highways of a State are public property, the primary and
preferred use of which is for private purposes; their use for
purposes of gain may generally be prohibited by the legislature or
conditioned as it sees fit. P. 264.
2. Texas statute regulating carriers on highways, considered and
held not open to the objection that it forces private carriers to
assume the duties and burdens of common carriers. Pp. 265-269.
3. Unregulated use of the public highways by a vast and ionstantly
growing number of private contract carriers operating motor
trucks, had the effect of greatly decreasing the freight which
would be carried by railroads within the State, and, in consequence, of adding to the burden upon the highways. Held:

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

(1) That the removal or reduction of this burden, witA its
resulting injury to the highways, interference with their primary
We, danger and inconvenience, was a legitimate subject for the
exercise of the legislative power. P. 271.
(2) Statutory provisions (a), forbidding private carriers to use
the highways without permits, the issuance of which by a commission depends upon the condition that the efficiency of commoncarrier service then adequately serving the same territory shall not
be impaired; and (b) authorizing the commission to prescribe
minimum rates for private carriers not less than those prescribed
for common carriers for substantially the same service, are legitimate means for conserving the highways and do not infringe
the right of the private carrier to due process. Pp. 272, 273.
4. The judgment of -the legislature as to fitness and efficiency of
means adopted by it for a legitimate end, must stand if it can
be seen that, in any degree, or under any reasonably conceivable
circumstances, there is an actual relation between the means and
fhe 6nd; the legislative conclusion must be accepted by the courts
if not manifestly wrong. P. 272.
5. When exercise of the freedom of contract conflicts with the power
and duty of .the State to safeguard its property from injury and
preserve it for the uses for which it was primarily designed, such
freedom may be regulated and limited to the extent that reasonably may be deemed necessary for the execution of such power.
and duty. P. 274.
6. A State has power to regulate not only the use of its highways
but private contracts also, in so far as they contemplate that
use; it may prescribe the terms upon which persons will be permitted to contract in respect of the use of the public highways
for purposes of gain. P. 274.
7. If sustained by one constitutional purpose, a statute is not invalid
becalise designed also for another purpose which, considered apart,
the legislature had no power to effect. P. 276.
8. Contracts are made subject to the future exercise of the constitutional power of the State. Id.
9. Whether the provision of the Texas statute requiring private
motor carriers to furnish bonds and insurance policies as security
for payment for loss of, or injury to, property arising out of their
operations, should be construed as applicable to the cargoes they
themselles carry, will not be determined in the absence of any
cinstruction of it by the state courts and of any attempt to
enforce it against the carriers complaining. P. 276.

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

Argument for Appellants.

10. Unless obliged to do otherwise, this Court should not adopt -a
construction of a state statute that might render it of doubtful
validity, but should await determination of the matter by the

state courts. P. 277.
11. The complaining carriers have not shown such construction or
administration of the statute as produces undue discrimination

against private carriers of their class as compared with carriers
operating under special permits, or persons, commonly known as
"shipper owners," who transport their own commodities.
53 F. (2d) 509, affirmed.

P. 277.

from a decree of the District Court of three
Apprr_
judges denying a permanent injunction in a suit to restrain the Governor, and other officials, of the State of
Texas from enforcing provisions of a statute regulating
the use of the highways by carriers of freight by motor.
The report cited above contains the opinion rendered by
the District Court when it denied a temporary injunction.
Mr. John N. Crocker, with whom Messrs. Win. B.
Bates and Leon Jaworskiwere on the brief, for appellants.
Constitutional guaranties forbid changing by mere
legislative fiat the status of a private contract carrier into
that of a common carrier against his will.
or a business to be "affected with a public interest,"
it must be such "as to justify the conclusion that it has
been devoted to a public use and its use thereby, in effect,
granted to the public," and the term is not so yielding
and flexible as to include the business of a private contract carrier, conducted pursuant to a single contract with
one shipper.
Legislative declaration that a certain business is affected with a public interest does not establish it as being
such, but the matter is one which is -always open to judi-

cial inquiry.
By providing (a) that no private contract carrier shall
be given a permit to operate upon the highways if the
Commission be of the. opinion that the proposed opera-

254

,OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

287 U.S.

tion of such carrier will impair the efficient public service
of any authorized common carriers then adequately serving the same territory, and (b) that the Railroad Commission shall prescribe the rates such private contract
carrier may charge for his services, which rates, in no
event, shall be less than the rates prescribed for a common
carrier performing substantially the same service-among
other provisions-the legislature is attempting to regulate
purely private business belonging to appellants, contrary
to constitutional guaranties.
The legislature can not regulate the purely private business of appellants by attempting, as this Act does, to
invest the Railroad Commission with power and authority to require appellants to file such monthly, annual or
other .reports and data as the Commission may deem
necessary, and to require them 'to keep accounts strictly
in accordance with such classification of accounts and
rules as may be prescribed by said Commission. Nor can
the legislature regulate appellants' business by requiring
them to carry insurance to cover the cargo transported by
them.

Permitting certain contract carriers, similarly situated
to appellants, but engaged in hauling commodities other
than those transported by appellants, to obtain special
permits from the Railroad Commission without first having to comply with the provisions of the Act, is an arbitrary designation of part only of a general class, not based
on anything having reasonable relation to the subjectmatter of the Act.
To require private contract carriers to employ only such
drivers-as have passed a special examination and obtained
a special chauffeur's license-to regulate the number of
hours such drivers can operate trucks and the number of
hours such drivers must rest--and to regulate the manner
of loading the cargo, etc., of private contract carriers-all without placing the "'shipper-owner" and others

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

Argument for Intervener-Appellant.

situated exactly as appellants are situated under similar
regulations, creates an arbitrary and unreasonable designation of part only of a comprehensive class, not based
on anything having relation to the subject-matter of the
Act.
Mr. LaRue Brown, with whom Messrs. L. E. Blankenbecker and Horace P. Moulton were on the brief, for D.
A. Beard, intervener-appellant.
The provisions requiring a permit, fixing minimum
rates, and requiring cargo insurance, are regulations of
the private carrier's business. They are not regulations
to conserve the highways.
By this enactment the State asserts power to impose
competitive restrictions upon the business of the private
carrier. They are sought to be supported by the asserted
power for economic reasons to regulate that business.
They constitute burdens and impose duties peculiar to
public utilities generally.
For both private and common carriers the primary test
of the statute is the adequacy or inadequacy of existing
facilities. Common carriers are protected against competition from private carriers, and the rule does not work
the other way. Highway conditions are to be considered
in passing upon applications of the common carriers, but
only" competitive conditions in the case of private
carriers.
The permit requirement is not designed as a highway
protective measure or a highway traffic, regulation. Cf.
Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307.
The Commission is vested with authority to regulate
the rates of contract carriers only when such carriers are
operating in competition with common carriers. Precisely what constitutes competition within.the contemplation of this section is not altogether clear. Here, as in
the permit requirements, the single aim is the restriction

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Intervener-Appeant.

287 U.S.

of competition between common and private carriers, not
that between private, carriers.
Judged by its necessary effect, the preconceived aim of
the permit requirement of § 6 is that no private carrier
shall contraut with any shipper to whom adequate common-carrier facilities'are available. When to this. is added
this highly artificial rate-fixing provision by which certificated common carriers are placed in a peculiarly advantageous competitive position as against such private car"riers as may.be able to procure permits, the outcome can
only be that the private carrier will ultimately be regulated out of existence.
No extended argument is required to demonstrate that
the regulation of rates is purely a regulation of business,
finding no semblance of authority in the power to legislate for the preservation of the highways or safety in their
use. See Brown & Scott, Regulation of the Contract
Motor Carrier under the Constitution, 44 Harv. L. Rev.
530, 550-558. It is an interference with the freedom of
contract, which may be imposed upon, common carriers
or upon businesses which due to peculiar circumstances of
devotion to public use, virtual monopoly or inequality of
bargaining power between producer and consumer, are
affected by the public interest and have thus acquired the
status of a public utility.
To the extent that the Act requires insurance of the
shipper against loss of or damage to his proper ty in
transit, it bears no relation to public safety or order upon
the highways, but attempts to invade the field of private
contract between shipper and private carrier. It prevents .the shipper from saving the cost of such insurance
-if he prefers to take the risk himself or to rely upon the
'financial responsibility of the carrier. 'It is clearly an
unwarranted regulation of the private business both of
the intervener and of his customer. Louis v. Boynton,
53 F. (2d) 471; Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, 55

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

257

Argument for Appellees.

F. (2d) 347, affirmed, 286 U. S. 352; Sprout v. South
Bend, 277 U. S. 163; Barrett v. New York, 232 U. S.
14; Red Ball Transit Co. v. Marshall, 8 F. (2d) 635; appeal dismissed without opinion, 273 U. S. 782; Cobb v.
Dept. of Public Works, 60 F. (2d) 631.
The business of private carriage of this intervener can
not, in view of the Fourteenth Amendment, be subjected
to such regulation. Michigan Public Utilities Commn. v.
Duke, 266 U. S. 570; Frostv. Railroad Commn., 271 U. S.
583, and particularly Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553.
Continental Baking Co. v. Woodrinig, 286 U. S'. 352,
368, 369.
The business is not bffected with a public interest.
Tyson v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418; Ribnik v. McBride, 277
U. S. 350; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235;
MichiganPublic Utilities Commn. v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570,
576.' See also Wolff Pqcking Co. v. Industrial Court, 262
U. S. 522; Producers' Transportation Co. v. Railroad
Commn., 251 U. S. 228"; Texoma Natural Gas Co. v. Rail-,
road Commn., 59. F. (2d) 750. Robinson, The Public
UtilityConcept in American Law, 41 Harv. L. Rev. 277;
293-303. The familiar criterion of virtual monopoly is
also inapplicable.
The Frost case is conclusive authority that the grant of
the privilege of using the highway's may not be conditioned upon the submission to regulations which would
not be constitutional if directly imposed.
Mr. Elbert Hooper, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Messrs. James V. Allred, Attorney
General, T. S. Christopher, Assistant Attorney General,
Claude Pollard,J. H. Tallichet, Charles C. Huff, W. M.
Streetman,and A. L. Reed were on the brief, for appellees.
The Act does not undertake to convert contract carriers into common carries. It does not require them to
devote their property to any different or greater public

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
*Argument for Appellees.

287 U.S.

use than that to which they have already voluntarily
dedicated it. It does not require them to render any
.greater service than they have contracted to render.
There is no-taking of their property devoted to one use
and declaring it devoted to another use. It leaves them
entirely free to regulate their schedules, designate their
territory and routes, select their contracts, and the traffic
they choose to haul. It merely fixes reasonable conditions
upon purely permissive uses appellants make of public
property as a place of business. The Act is bottomed on
the State's undoubted power to protect its highways and
remove traffic hazards as well as its power and duty to
foster and preserve a dependable transportation system
for the whole people. The regulations of the Act, including the power to fix minimum rates, extend only to those
phases of contract carrier operations which adversely
affect. the public welfare; they are reasonably related to
the accomplishment of its valid purposes.
Transportation is the most. important of the public
-services. Experience has demonstrated the absolute
necessity of its regulation to preserve and protect- the
public interest. The business of contract carriage has
grown to such enormous proportions within recent years
that it threatens to destroy common-carrier transportation agencies. Its manner of operation has seriously affected the economic and industrial life of the people. Its
unrestrained and unregulated use of public highways,- together with its. discriminatory rates and practices, have
resulted in irreparable injury to the public welfare. Con-.
tract carriage has developed such a peculiar and intimate
relationship to the. public interest that the State's power
to enforce the rfgulations.of the Act is superimposed upon
it. Appellants, and the class of contract carriers who are
reached by the Act, are, under conditions now obtaining
on the highways, engaged in a business which is affected
with a public interest, and the reasonable regulation of

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

259

Opinion of the Court.

their rates and practices is essential for the protection of
that interest.
The Act imposes substantially different schemes of
regulation upon common and contract carriers, and there
is a alear differentiation between the two classes. The
burdens imposed upon contract carriers are less onerous
than those applied to common carriers. It authorizes
no greater regulation of appellants' business than is essential
to protect the great public interest involved.
Section
6 (d) authorizing the issuance of special
permits for the transportation of certain named commodities
is not open to the construction that persons operating
thereunder are not subject to regulation upon the same
basis as appellants. A proper construction of the Act
subjects special permit operators to every regulation applicable to appellants. This construction avoids their
c6ntention that the Act is discriminaiory.
The Act is clearly severable; and if § 6 (d) is invalid,
it, and not the Act, must fall.
The Act does not apply to persons transpoiting their
own property in their own trucks. Its classifications are
based upon the substantial differences of fact between
persons making a constant and extensive use of highways
in the business of hauling for hire and persons making
only. a limited and incidental use in the ordinary and
usual pursuits of life. The distinctions are drawn upon
differences in the manner and extent of those uses and
there is a rational basis for them.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought in the court below by Stephenson,
one of the appellants, in which the other.appellants intervened, against various officials of the State and -counties

of Texas, among them, the Governor, Attorney General,
members of the State Highway Commission and of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

State Railroad Commission, to enjoin the enforcement
of certain provisions of a state statute hereafter described.
The appellants severally were engaged in transporting
freight by means of motor trucks over the highways of
the state, between certain cities located within the state,
under private contracts made with various named shippers, which contracts, among other terms, fixed the rate
to be charged for the transportation services. While these
contracts were in force and in process of being performed,
the state statute was passed, the effect of which, it is
alleged, is. to prohibit appellants from carrying out the
terms, provisions and conditions of their contracts; to.
preclude them from transporting freight over the highways of the state under their contracts as private carriers
to their great injury; and to subject them to criminal
prosecutions. It is further alleged that an enforcement of
the act will destroy the business of appellants, and unless
restrained will cause them irreparable injury.
The following constitute the salient provisions of the
act. Section 1 defines various terms used in the act. Section. 3 provides that no common carrier of property for
compensation, or hire shall operate over the highways of.
the state without first obtaining a certificate of public
convenience and necessity, and that no contract carrier
shall thus operate without a permit so to do. Section 4
vests the railroad commission with authority to supervise and regulate the transportation of property for compensation or hire by motor vehicle on any public highway
of the state; to fix mnaxium or minimum, or maximum
and minimum, rates, fares and charges in accordance with
the specific provisions of the act; to prescribe rules and
regulations for the government of motor carriers, for the
safety of their operations, and for other purposes; to
require each driver to have a licenge pursuant to an examination as to his ability and fitness. By the same section
the commission is given broad powers of supervision and

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

Opinion of the Court.

regulation in respect of matters affecting the relationship
of the motor carriers and the shipping public, as may be
necessary in the interest of the public; and also to supervise and regulate such carriers generally "so as to carefully preserve, foster and regulate transportation and to
relieve the existing and all future undue burdens on the
highways arising by reason of the use of the highways by
motor carriers, adjusting and administering its regulations
in the interests of the public." The railroad commission
and the highway commission are directed to co~perate in
respect of the condition of the public highways and their
ability to carry existing and proposed additional traffic.
Section 5 contains various provisions relating to common carriers over the highways, and among other things
requires them to have certificates of public convenience
and necessity. Section 6 (a) provides that no motor carrier now operating as a contract carrier, or hereafter desiring to engage in so doing, shall operate until it shall
have received a permit from the railroad commission
which shall not be issued until the applicant has complied with the requirements of the act. Section 6 (c) directs that such permits shall be granted only after a hearing, and not if the commission be of opinion " that the
proposed operation of any such contract carrier will impair the efficient public service of any authorized common carrier or common carriers then adequately serving
the same territory."
Section 6 (d) authorizes the railroad commission to
issue special permits to persons desiring to transport for
hire over the state highways livestock, mohair, wool, milk,
and certain other commodities, upon such terms and under
such regulations as may be deemed proper, having in
mind the protection of the highways and the safety of the
traveling public.' Section 6aa gives the commission authority to prescribe rules and regulations governing the
operation of contract carriers in competition with com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

mon carriers over the highways,'and to prescribe minimum rates to be collected by such contract carriers "which
shall not be less than the rates prescribed for common
carriers for substantially the same service."
Section 6bb provides that no permit to operate as a
contract carrier shall be granted to any person operating
as a common carrier holding a certificate of convenience
and necessity, and that no certificate of convenience and
necessity shall be granted to any person operating as a
contract carrier, and that no vehicle shall be operated by
any motor carrier with both a permit and a certificate.
- Section 13 requires all motor carriers to give bonds and
insurance policies, which among other things shall provide
that the obligor will pay judgments recovered against the
motor carrier based on claims for loss or damages for personal injuries, or "loss df, or injury to, property occurring
during the term of said bonds and policies and arising
out of the actual operation of such motor carrier." The
section contains a proviso directing the Commission not
to require insurance covering loss of or damage to cargo
in amount excessive for the class of service to be rendered
by the carrier,
Section 22(b) is a broad declaration of policy. It declares that the business of operating as a motor carrier'
of property for hire along the highways of the state is
one affected with the public interest. It further declares
that the rapid increase of motor carrier traffic and the
lack of effective regulation have increased the dangers and
hazards on public highways and made more stringent
regulations imperative to the end that the highways may
be rendered safer for public use, the wear and tear upon
them reduced, discrimination.in rates eliminated, congestion of traffic minimized, the use of the highways for transportation of property for hire restricted to the extent required by the necessities of the general public, and the
various transportation agencies of the state adjusted and

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

263

Opinion of the Court.

correlated "so that public highways may serve the best
interest of the general public."
The case was heard by a statutory court consisting of
three judges, under § 266 of the Judicial Code,. U. S. C.,
Title 28, §380, upon the pleadings and affidavits and other
evidence. That court delivered an opinion and denied an
interlocutory injunction. 53 F. (2d) 509. Later, and
upon final hearig, the court made findings of fact and
entered a decree denying a permanent injunction. The
case comes here by appeal from that decree.
Appellants assail the statute upon the following grounds.
(1) That as applied to appellants, all of whom are private
contract carriers, the result of the statute is to compel
them to dedicate their property to the quasi-public use of
public transportation before they can operate their motors
over the highways, and thus to take their property for
public use without adequate compensation and to deprive
them of their property without due process of law. In
other words, the alleged effect of the statute is to convert
the private carriers into common carriers by legislative
fiat. (2) That the business of appellants is not affected
with a public interest, and the provisions of the statute
so declaring in terms, or in effect, constitute an attempt
to deprive appellants of their property without due process
of law, and to abrogate their right of private contract.
(3) That the statute by requiring appellants to obtain a,
permit in the hature of a certificate of public convenience
and necessity subjects them to other regulations before
they can lawfully operate upon the highways, which regulations are not imposed upon other private carriers similarly situated, and thereby appellants are denied the equal
protection of the laws. (4) That other regulations to
which appellants are subjected are not made applicable
to persons using the highways in transportation of their
own commodities under substantially similar conditions,

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

and thereby appellants are denied the equal protection
of the laws.
To these contentions appellees reply-(a) That the
act does not undertake to convert the contract carriers
into common carriers, or to require them to devote their
property to any different or greater public use than that
to which they have already voluntarily dedicated it, or
to render any service beyond that which they have contracted to render, but merely fixes reasonable conditions
upon the permissive use which they make of public property as a place of business. (b). That the act is bottomed
upon the state's power to protect its highways and remove traffic hazards, as well as upon its power and duty
to foster and preserve a dependable transportation system for the whole people. (c) That the contract carriers reached by the act are, under conditions now obtaining upon the highways, engaged in a business affected
with a public interest, and the reasonable regulation of
their rates and practices is essential for the protection of
that interest. '(d) That the act is not discriminatory in
the particulars asserted by appellants.
First..It is well established law that the highways of
the state are public property; that their primary and
preferred use is for private purposes; and that their use
for purposes of gain is special and extraordinary, which,
generally at least, the legislature may prohibit or condi-,
tion as it sees fit. Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 144,
and cases cited; Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comm.,
271 U. S. 583, 592-593; Hodge Co. v. Cincinnati, 284
U. S. 335, 337; Johnson Transfer& FreightLines v. Perry,
47 F. (2d) 900, 902; Southern Motorways v. Perry, 39
F. (2d) 145, 147; People's Transit Co. v. Henshaw, 20 F.
(2d) 87, 89; Weksler v. Collins, 317 Ill. 132, 138-139;
147 -N.E. 797; Maihe Motor Coaches v. Public Utilities,
125 Me. 63, 65; 130 Atl. 866.

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

Opinion of the Court.

Putting aside the question, whether the statute may
stand against the attack made under the due process of
law clause, upon the theory that appellants, by reasofi
of their use of the public highways, are engaged in a business impressed with a public interest, and the question
whether it may be justified on the ground that, wholly
apart from its relation to highway conservation, it is
necessary in order to prevent impairment of the public
service of authorized common carriers adequately serving the same territory, we confine our inquiry to the question whether, in the light of the broad general rule just
stated, the statute may be construed and sustained as a
constitutional exercise of the legislative power to regulate the use of the state highways. Provisions of the statute assailed on the ground that they are not highway
regulations and violate the due process of law clause are:
the requirement that the private contract carrier before
engaging in business must obtain a permit upon considerations gelating to the effect of their competition upon
existing common carriers; the provision authorizing the
railroad commission to fix. the minimum rates of such
private carriers operating in competition with common
carriers, which shall not be less than the rates prescribed
for common carriers for substantially the same service;
and the requirement, as appellants interpret the statute,
that such private carriers must furnish cargo insurance
policies and bonds.
We are of opinion that neither by specific provision or
provisions, nor by the statute considered as a whole, is
there an attempt to convert private contract carriers by
motor into common carriers. Certainly, the statute does
not say so. Common carriers by motor and private contract carriers are classified separately and subjected to distinctly separate provisions. By § 1 (h), the contract carrier is defined as "any motor carrier . . . transporting

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S

property for compensation or hire over any highway in
this state other than as a common carrier." It is difficult
to see how the legislature could more clearly have evinced'
ai intention to avoid an attempt to convert the contract
carrier into a common carrier. It is true that the regulations imposed upon the two classes are in some instances
similar if not identical; but they are imposed upon each
class considered by itself, and it does not follow that regulations appropriately impQsed upon the business of a common carrier, may not also be appropriate to the business of
a contract carrier.
Appellants, in support of their contention, rely upon
prior decisions of this court; but there is nothing in any
of them, as a brief review will disclose, which requires us
to hold that the legislation here under review compels
private contract carriers to assume the duties and obligations of common carriers, or interferes with their freedom
to limit their business to that of carrying under. private
contracts as they have been wont to do.
Michigan Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570, dealt with
a state law which expressly provided that all persons engaged in the transportation of persons .orproperty for hire
by motor vehicle upon the public highways of the state
should be common carriers, and that all laws of the state
regulating transportation by other common carriers should
apply with equal force and effect to such common carriers.
It was upon this express provision that this court based
its holding (pp. 577-578) that it was beyond the power
of the state by legislative fiat to convert property used
exclusively in the business of a private carrier into a public
utility, or to make the owner a public carrier, since that
would be to cake private property for public use without
lust compensation in violation of the due process of law
clause of the Fourtebnth Amendment.
Buck v. Kuykendal1, 267 U. S. 307, and. Bush Co. v.
Maloy, 267 U. S. 317, were cases which dealt with state

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

•267

Opinion of the Court.

statutes affecting interstate commerce and wit discriminations relating thereto. No such questions are raised in
respect of the application to appellants'of the Texas,
statute now under consideration.

The 4uestion decided in Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad
Commn., 271 U. S. 583, differs entirely from that here
presented. .There (p. 592) the California supreme court
had construed a provision of the state statute which
required the private contract carrier to obtain not a permit, as here, but a certificate of public convenience and
necessity, before doing business over the. state highways,
as a condition obliging him to dedicate his property to
the business of public transportation and to subject himself to all the. duties and -burdens imposed by the act
upon common carriers. This court, in accordance with
the settled rule, accepted that construction as binding
and, in that view, said (p. 592):.
the case presented is not that of a private carrier who, in order .to have the privilege of using the highways, is required merely to secure a certificate of public
convenience and become subject to regulations appropriate to that -kind of a carrier; but it is that of a private
carrier whol in order to enjoy the use of the highways,
must submit to the condition of becoming a common
carrier and of being regulated as such by the railroad
commission. The certificate of public convenience, required by J 5, is exacted of a common carrier and is purely
incidental to thlat status. The requirement does not
apply to a private carrier qua private carrier, but to him
only in his imposed statutory character of*common carrier. Apart from that signification, so far as he is concerned, it does not exist."
On the contrary, the Texas statute in respect of permits
deals exclusively with the private contract carrier, and
requires the issue of the permit not to him in the imposed
character of a common carrier, but in his actual character

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

as a private contract carrier. If the California statute
requiring a certificate had been thus interpreted by the
highest court of the state, the foregoing quotation clearly
suggests that our decision might have been otherwise.
Smithv. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 55a, dealt with a Florida
statute indiscriminately applying to all who operated motor vehicles for compensation or as common carriers over
public highways, and prohibiting such operation without
a certificate of public convenience and necessity, application for. which was to be accompanied by a schedule of
tariffs. No certificate was valid unless a bond were given
by the applicant for protection against injuries resulting
from negligence, and for the protection of persons and
property carried. The railroad commission was vested
with authority to fix or approve rates, regulate service,
prescribe methods of keeping accounts, -etc. Schedules of
rates were to be open to the public, and all alterations in
tariffs were under the commission's control. The violation
of any provision of the act was made a misdemeinor punishable by fine or imprisonment or by both; This court
held that since the statute affixed the same conditions to
all who applied for certificates, and embraced in those
conditions a scheme of supervision and control which constitutionally could be applied only to common carriers, a
private carrier for hire could not constitutionally be arrested under it for failure to procure a certificate or pay
the tax required by the act. It further held that if the
statute were regarded as intended to afford one constitutional scheme for common carriers and another for-private
carriers, it failed to define the obligations of private carriers with the certainty required of criminal statutes, and
was, therefore, void; and that this defect was not removed
by a decision of the state court declaring the provisions
separable and that ohly those legally applicable to private
carriers were intended to apply to fhem, without also deciding which provisions were so appi _able. "No separate

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

269

Opinion of the Court.

scheme of regulation," we said (p. 563), "can be discerned
in the terms of the Act with respect to those considerations of safety and proper operation affecting the use of
highways which may appropriately relate to private carriers as well as to common carriers."
The vice of the statute was that all carriers for hire,
whether public or private, were put upon the same footing
by explicit provisiong which could not be severed so as to
afford one valid scheme for comm6n carriers and another
for private carriers, with the result that until the separability of these provisions should be determined by competent authority, they were void for uncertainty. In the
Texas statute no such uncertainty exists.. The provisions
intended to be applicable to contract carriers are distinctly
set forth and separately stated, plainly leaving for determination only the question whether such provisions, or
any of them, are invalid as so applied. Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U. S. 352, 364.
We come, then, to consider the challenged provisions of
the statute under review, in the light of their exclusive relation to contract carriers, unembarrassed by any previous
ruling of this court. In view of the-conclusions to which
we shall come, it is not necessary to determine whether'
the operation of trucks for the transportation of freight
Under private contracts, carried into effect by the use of
the public highways, is a business impressed with a public
interest.
There is ample support in the record for the following
findings of the court below:
"The evidence shows there are 1,360,413 motor vehicles
other than either common or contract carriers or commercial carriers of passengers registered for use on the
highways of Texas, and that it is one of the purposes of'
the Legislature to make the use of the highways safer and
more convenient for these private operators, involving
incidentally either a lessening of commercial transporta-

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

tion on the highways, or such improvement in their character and practices as to effect the same result. In
this connection, the Court finds that the provisions of
the statute carried out in accordance with the declaration
of purpose and the specific instructions therein will have
the effect either of lessening commercial traffic on the
highways, or, by bringing it under careful and adequate
supervision, of making the use thereof by the very large
number of owners and operators of private motor vehicles
safer and more convenient.
"The increase of unregulated truck transportation over
the highways had developed a difficult and perplexing
public problem to the extent that the Governor of the
State in his message to the Legislature called attention to
the fact that the highways were being taken'and badly
used by motor vehicles engaged in the. transportation of
freight for hire.
"The number of- contract carriers on the highways of
Texas having rapidly grown, as elsewhere found, the business they conduct now exists as a very large factor in commercial transportation. The court finds that it is not the
effect of one such carrier or a limited number thereof which
produced the serious problem with which the Legislature
of Texas purported to deal and has dealt, but it is the
effect, in the aggiegate, of such contract carriers that is
important.
"The inevitable result of the continuance of the enormous increase of so-called private carriers for hire and the
continual decrease in the number of common carriers
holding certificates of public convenience and necessity
will be the practical disappearance altogether of common
carriers from the roads.
' The Legislaturehas declared that all of the available
carriage service, including common carriage by rail and
road and contract carriage by road, are so interdependent

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

271

Opinion of the Court.

that the public may not continue to have a safe and
dependable transportation system unless private carriers
operating on the same roads with common carriers are
brought under just and reasonable regulations bringing
their service into relation with common carriers, and we
find the evidence supports this finding.
"The requirement of the Texas statute under attack
that contract carriers must have a permit with the pre?equisites in the statute for such a permit, is reasonable,
particularly in that this method enables the State to know
who will use its highways and to more efficiently regulate
such use. The permit system has immediate relation to
the condition of the roads and bridges, congestion of the
highways aid the character of equipment to be used,
which relates not only to the effect of the operations on
business but also to the problem of safety and convenience in use of the highway.
"The experience of the Railroad Commission supports
the Legislative declaration that unregulated contract carriers under the former law effectively prevents the primary purpose of fostering and conserving for the public
welfare all commercial transportation on the highways
which it has been the purpose of the laws of Texas, under
rules of the Commission, to foster."
These and other findings and the evidence contained in
the record conclusively show that during recent years the
unregulated use of the highways of the state by a vast and
constantly growing number of private contract carriers
has had the effect of greatly decreasing the freight which
would be carried by railroads within the state, and, in
consequence, adding to the burden upon the highways.
Certainly, the removal or amelioration of that burden,
with its resulting injury to the highways, interference
with their primary use, danger and inconvenience, is a
legitimate subject for the exercise of the state legislative
power. And that this was one of the chief ends sought

272-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

to be accomplished by the provisions in question, the
record amply establishes.
The assailed provisions, in this view, are not ends in and
of themselves, but means to the legitimate end of conserving the highways. The extent to which, as means, they
conduce to that end, the degree of their efficiency, the
closeness of their relation to the end sought to be attained,
are matters addressed to the judgment of the legislature,
and not to that of the courts. It is enough if it can be
seen that in any degree; or under any reasonably conceivable circumstances, there is an actual relation between
the means and the end. Compare McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 409-410, 419, 421, 423; Veazie Bank v.
Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 549; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457,
539-540, 541, 542, 543; Pomeroy, Constitutional Law, 9th
ed., § 268a.
Turning our att et tion then to the provision for permits,
it is to be observ d that the requirement is not thai the
private contract carrier shall obtain a certificate of public
convenience and necessity, but that he shall obtain a permit, the issue of which is made dependent upon the condition that the efficiency of common carrier service then
adequately serving the same territory shall not be impaired. Does the required relation here exist between the
condition imposed and the end sought? We think it does.
But in any event, if the legislature so concluded, as it
evidently did, that conclusion must stand, since we are not
able to say that in reaching it that body was manifestly
wrong. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 30-31.
Compare Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365,
395; Zahn v. Board of Public Works, 274 U. S. 325, 328.
Debatable questions of this character are not for the
courts, but for the legislature, which is entitled to form its
own judgment. Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 388389. Leaving out of consideration common carriers by

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

Opinion of the Court.

trucks, impairment of the railway freight service, in the
very nature of things, must result, to some degree, in
adding to the burden imposed upon the highways. Or
stated conversely, any diversion of traffic from .the highways to the railroads must correspondingly relieve the
former, and, therefore, cotribute directly to their conservation. There is thus a substantial relation between
the means here adopted and the end sought. This is
made plain by the Sproles case, supra (p. 394):
"The State has a vital interest in the appropriate utilization of the raikoads which serve its people, as well as in
the proper maintenance of its highways as safe and convenient facilities. The State provides its highways and
pays for their upkeep. Its people make railroad transportatidn possible by the payment of transportation
charges. It cannot be said that the State is powerless
to protect its highways from being subjected to excessive
burdens when other means of transportation are available.
The use of highways for truck transportation has its manifest convenience, but we perceive no constitutional ground
for denying to the State the right to foster a fair distribution of traffic to the end that all necessary facilities should
be maintained and that the public should not be inconvenr
ienced by inordinate uses of its highways for purposes of
gain. This is not a case of a denial of the use of the highways to one class of citizens as opposed to another, or of
limitations having no appropriate relation to highway
protection."
What has just been said applies in the main to the other
challenged provision authorizing the commission to pre'scribe minimum rates not less than those prescribed for
common carriers for substantially the same service. This
provision, by precluding the contract carriers from rendering service at rates under those charged by the railroad
carriers, has a definite tendency to relieve the highways by

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

diverting traffic from them to the railroads. The authority
is limited to the fixing of minimum rates. The contract
carrier may not charge less than the rates so fixed, but is
left free to charge as much more as hd sees fit and can
obtain. Undoubtedly, this interferes with the freedom
of the parties to contract, but it is not such an interference
as the Fourteenth Amendment forbids. While freedom of
contract is the general rule, it is nevertheless not 'absolute
but subject to a great variety of legitimate restraints,
among which are such as are required for the safety and
welfare of the state and its inhabitants. Knoxville Iron
Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13, 22; Atlantic Coast Line R.
Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 202; Chicago, B. &
Quincy R. Co. v. McGuire, id., 549, 567, et seq.; Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Int. Com. Commn., 221 U. S. 612, 619.
When the exercise of that freedom conflicts with the
power and duty of the state to safeguard its property from
injury and preserve it for 'those uses for which it was
primarily designed, such freedom may be regulated and
limited to the extent which reasonably may be necessary
to carry the power and duty into effect. Compare
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, 545; Miller v. Wilson,
236 U. S. 373, 380; Frisbie'v. United States, 157 U. S.
160, 165; Highland v. Russell Car Co., 279 U. S. 253, 261;
Adkins v. Children'sHospital,261 U. S. 525, 546.
Here the circumstance which justifies what otherwise
might be an unconstitutional interference with the freedom of private contract is that the contract calls for a
service, the performance of which contemplates the use
of facilities belonging to the State; and it would be strange
doctrine which, while recognizing the power of the state
to regulate the use itself, would deny its power to regulate
the contract so far as it contemplates the use. "Contracts which relate to the use of the highways must be
*deemed to have been made in contemplation of the regulatory authority of the State." Sproles v. Binford, supra,

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

Opinion of the Court.

at pp. 390-391, and authorities cited. The principle that
Congress may regulate private contracts whenever reasonably necessary to effect any of the great purposes for
which the national government was created, Highland v.
Russell Car Co., supra,at p. 261, applies to a state under
like
Ancircumstances.
entirely different question was presented
in the
FrostTrucking case, supra. There, as we pointed out (pp.
591-592), the California act, as construed by the highest
court of the state, was in no real sense a regulation -of the
use of the public highways. Its purpose was to protect
the t4usiness of those who were common carriers in fact by
controlling competitive conditions. Protection or conservation of the highways was not involved.* The condition Which constrained the private contract carrier to
become a common carrier, therefore, had no relation to the
highways, In this view, the use of the highways furnished
a purely unrelated bccasion for imposing the unconstitutional condition, affording no firmer basis for that condition than would have been the case if the contract carrier
were using a .road in private ownership.
The Texas statute, on the contrary, rests definitely
upon the policy of highway conservation, and the provision now under review is governed by the same principle
as that which recognizes the authority of a state to prescribe the conditions upon which it will permit public
work to be done on its behalf. Among such conditions
it may prescribe that laborers employed by a contractor
to do such work shall not be permitted to labor more
than eight hours per day. Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S.
207. " It cannot be deemed a part of the liberty of any
contractor," it is said at pp. 222-223, "that he be allowed
to do public work in any mode he may choose to adopt,
The California Supreme Court expressly said that the act "does
not purport to be and is not in fact a regulation of the use of the
highways." 197 Cal. 230, 244; 240 Pao. 26.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
-Opinion of the Court.

287 U.S.

without regard to the wishes of the State. On the contrary, it belongs to the State, as the guardian and trustee
for its people, and having control of its affairs, to prescribe
the conditions upon which it will permit public work to
be done on its behalf, or on behalf of its municipalities.
No court has authority to review its action in that respect.
Regulations on this subject suggest only considerations of
public policy. And with such considerations the courts
have no concern." See also Ellis v. United States, 206
U. S. 246, 256; Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S. 175, 191. It
may be said with like force that it belongs to the state,
"as master in its own house," to prescribe the terms upon
which persons will be permitted to contract in respect of
the use of the public highways for purposes of. gain. See
Hodge Co.v. Cincinnati,284 U. S. 335, 337.
We need not consider whether the act in some other
aspect would be good or bad. It is enough to support
its validity that, plainly, one of its aims is to conserve
the highways. If the legislature had other or additional
purposes, which, considered apart, it had no constitutional
power to make effective, that would not have the result
of making the act invalid. Ellis v. United States, 206
U. S. 246, 256. Nor does it matter that the legislation
has the result of modifying or abrogating contracts already in effect. Such contracts are to .be regarded as
having been made subject to the future exercise of the
constitutional power of the state. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 480, et seq.; Union
Bridge Co. v. lUnited States, 204 U. S.364, 400; Sproles
v. Binford, supra, at pp. 390-391.
The provision of § 13, requiring every motor carrier,
whether operating under permit or certificate, to furnish a bond and policy of insurance conditioned that the
obligor will pay, among other things, for loss of, or injury to, property arising out of the actual operation of
the carrier, is construed by appellants as including car-

STEPHENSON v. BINFORD.
251

277

Opinion of the Court.

goes carried by them, and is assailed as a requirement
bearing no relation to public safety, but as an attempt
to condition the purely private contractual relationship
between shipper and private carrier. It is said that the
proviso which prohibits*the commission from requiring insurance covering loss of, or damage to, cargo in an excessive amount requires the construction suggested. So far
as appears no attempt yet has been made to enforce the
provision against any of these appellants, and until, that
is done they have no occasion to complain. Moreover,
no state court thus far has dealt with the question, and
unless obliged to do otherwise, we should not adopt a
construction which might render the provision of doubtful validity, but await a determination of the matter by
the coutts of the state. Utah Power & L. Co. v. Pfost,
286 U. S. 165, 186.
Second. The contention that the act, in certain particulars, denies appellants the equal protection of the laws
requires only brief consideration. Section 6 (d), which
authorizes the issue of special permits to persons engaged
in the business of transporting certain named commodities upon such terms, conditions and restrictions as the
railroad commission may deem proper, etc., is said to
discriminate arbitrarily against carriers of commodities of
a similar character, in that the selected carriers are not
required to comply with many of the onerous provisions
of the statute. It is by no means clear that such is the
case, and it is asserted on behalf of appellees, and not
disputed, that the Attorney General of the state, in an
official opinion, has construed the provision to mean that
persons operating under these special permits either as
contract or common carriers are subject to the provisions
of the act applicable to such carriers, and that this construction has been accepted by the railroad commission.
There is nothing in the record to suggest that the provision has been otherwise applied. Appellants in this

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

287 U.S.

regard, therefore, have no ground upon which to base a
complaint.
Nor do we find merit in the further contention that the
act arbitrarily discriminates against appellants because it
does not apply to persons, commonly known as "shipperowners," who are transporting their own commodities
under substantially similar conditions. It is obvious that
certain provisions of the statute, like that requiring the
commission to fix minimum rates, can have no application to such owners. We are of opinion, from an examination of the act and the companion act which was upheld
by this court in Sproles v. Binford, supra, that all provisions relating to contract carriers which are germane to
shipper-owners are made applicable to them. In any
event, it is not shown that the act thus far has been so
administered as to result in any unlawful discrimination.
The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
iMR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissents.
BAINBRIDGE v. MERCHANTS & MINERS
TRANSPORTATION CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 90.

Argued November 17, 1932.-Decided December 5, 1932.

1. The provision in § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act that jurisdiction (meaning venue) of actions by seamen for personal injuries
suffered in the course of their employment "shall be under the
court of the district in which the defendant employer resides or
in which his principal office is located," refers only to federal

courts. P. 280.
2. Where such action is in a state court, venue is determined by the
state law. Id.3. U. S. C., Title 28, § 837, (c. 113, 40 Stat. 683) provides that
courts of the United States, "including appellate courts," shall
be open to seamen without payment cf or security for fees or

