266

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Syllabus.

351 U. S.

UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AIRCRAFT & AGRICUL
TURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA
v. WISCONSIN EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS

BOARD

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 530. Argued April 24-25, 1956.-Decided June 4, 1956.
An employer which was subject to the National Labor Relations Act
filed a complaint with the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board
charging appellant union and others with committing unfair labor
practices within the meaning of the Wisconsin Employment Peace
Act, which practices were also unfair labor practices under the
NationaLLabor Relations Act, as amended. The employer alleged.
that, during a strike, members of the union had engaged in mass
picketing, thereby obstructing ingress to and egress from the
employer's plant; interfered with the free and uninterrupted use
of public highways; prevented persons who desired to be employed
from entering the plant; coerced employees who desired to work,
and threatened them and their families with physical injury. The
State Board found the allegations to be true and issued an order
directing the union and certain of its members to cease all such
activities. This order was enforced by a Wisconsin State Court.
Held: The order of the State Board is valid and the judgment of
the State Court enforcing it is affirmed. Pp. 267-275.
(a) Section 8 (b) (1) of the National Labor Relations Act, as
amended, is not the exclusive method of controlling violence even
against employees, much less violence interfering with others
approaching an area where a strike is in progress; and the Federal
Act does not so occupy the field as to prevent a State from enjoining such violence. Pp. 271-273.
(b) The fact that a union commits a federal unfair labor practice
while engaging in violent conduct does not prevent a State from
taking steps to top the violence. P. 274.
(c) A different result is not required by the fact that the State
acted under a state labor-relations statute, rather than under a
general state 'law against violence and coercion, nor by. the fact
that the State has chosen to entrust its power to -a labor board.
Pp. 273-275.
269 Wis. 578, 70 N. W. 2d 191, affirmed.

AUTO WORKERS v. WISCONSIN BOARD.
266

267

Opinion of the Court.

Kurt L. Hanslowe argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief were Harold A. Cranefield, Max
Raskin and Redmond H. Roche, Jr.
Beatrice Lampert, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, argued the cause for the Wisconsin Employment
Relations Board, appellee. With her on the brief were
Vernon W. Thomson, Attorney General, and Stewart G.
Honeck, Deputy Attorney General.
Jerome Powell argued the cause for the Kohler Company, appellee. With him-on the brief were John C.
Gall, John F. Lane, William F. Howe and Lyman C.
Conger.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed by
John Ben Shepperd, Attorney General, and Burnell Waldrep, Philip Sanders and John Atchison, Assistant Attorneys General, for the State of Texas, and E. R. Callister,
Attorney General, and Raymond W. Gee, Assistant
Attorney General, for the State of Utah, and Eugene
Cook, Attorney General, for the State of Georgia.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case, as stated in the brief for the United Automobile, Aircraft and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America, presents the question whether or. not a State
may enjoin through its labor statute, the Wisconsin
Employment Peace Act, union conduct of a kind which
may be an unfair labor practice under the National
Labor Relations Act, as amended.'
IThe question presented is narrowed by appellant in another
paragraph to apply only to instances, as here, where the National
Board has asserted jurisdiction over certain other labor practices
arising from the same employer-union relationship. These proceedings include a plea by the employer that the state-enjoined union
conduct constitutes a defense to a union charge filed with the Board.
Appellant also asserted that the State should act only after the-Board
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

Appellant concedes that a State may punish violence
arising in labor relation controversies under its generally
applicable criminal statutes. It does not admit or deny
the charged violence. The union considers the coercion
immaterial in this case. Its position is that a State may
not exercise this police power through an agency that is
concerned only with labor relations. The argument is that
a State Board will use this power to stop force and violence in order to further state labor policy, thus creating
a conflict with the federal policy as developed by the
National Labor Relations Board. The union argues that
Wisconsin has no jurisdiction to enjoin the alleged
conduct under its labor act because such conduct would
be an unfair labor practice under the National Labor
Relations Act.
This controversy arose out of the failure of appellant
and the Kohler Company to reach an accord concerning
a new collective-bargaining agreement. As the parties
were unable to agree, Kohler's production workers struck
and picketed the premises of the company. Ten days
later Kohler filed a complaint with the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board charging appellant and others
with committing unfair labor practices within the meaning of the Wisconsin Employment Peace Act.! It was
alleged that appellant's members had engaged in mass
picketing, thereby obstructing ingress to and egress from
the Kohler plant; interfered with the free and uninterhas passed upon the pending union complaint. In view of our
disposition of this appeal, we do not consider these narrower issues
material.
2
Wisconsin Statutes, 1953, c. ill, p. 1903.
§ 111.04, p. 1905:
"111.04 Rights of employes. Employes shall have the right of
self-organization and the right to form, join or assift labor.organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own
choosing, and to engage in lawful, concerted activities for the purpose
of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection; and such

AUTO WORKERS v. WISCONSIN BOARD.
266

269

Opinion of the Court.

rupted use of public ways; prevented persons desiring
to be employed by Kohler from entering the plant; and
coerced employees who desired to work, and threatened
them and their families with physical injury. The State
Board found the allegations to be true and issued an order
that directed the union and certain of its members
to cease all such activities. The order appears below.3
employes shail also have the right to refrain from any or all of such
activities."
§ 111.06 (2), p.1907:
"(2) Itshall be an unfair labor practice for an employe individually
or in concert with others: ,
"(a) To coerce or intimidate an employe in the enjoyment of his
legal rights, including those guaranteed in section 111.04, or to intimidate his family, picket his domicile, or injure the person or property
of such emIloye or his family.
"(f) To hinder or prevent, by mass picketing, threats, intimidation,
force or coercion of any kind the f:rsuit of any lawful work or
employment, or to obstruct or interfere with entrance to or egress
from any place of employment, or to obstruct or interfere with free
and uninterrupted use of public roads, streets, highways, railways,
airports, or other ways of travel or conveyance."
§ 111.07, p.1908:
"111.07 Prevention of unfair labor practices. (1)Any controversy concerning unfair labor practices may be submitted to the
board in the manner and with the effect provided in this subchapter,
but nothing herein shall prevent the pursuit of legal or equitable
relief in courts of competent jurisdiction."
3 "It is ordered that the Respondent Unions, their officers, members and agents immediately cease and desist from
"1. Coercing and intimidating any person desiring to.be employed
by the Kohler Company in the enjoyment of his legal rights, intimidating his family, picketing his domicile, or injuring the person or
property of such persons or his employe.
*"2. Hindering, or preventing by mass picketing, threats, intimidation, force or coercion of any kind the pursuit of lawful work or
employment by any person desirous of being employed by the Kohler
Company.
"3, Obstructing or interfering in any way with entrance to and

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

Without change of substance it was enforced by a
Wisconsin Circuit Court, and the State Supreme Court
affirmed that judgment. 269 Wis. 578, 70 N. W..2d 191.
As the appeal raised an important question of federalism,
we noted probable jurisdiction. 350 U. S. 957.'
The Kohler Company is subject to the National Labor
Relations Act. It seems agreed, and we think correctly
in view of the findings of fact, that the alleged conduct
of the union in coercing employees in the exercise of their
rights is a violation of § 8 (b) (1) of that Act." Since
egress from the premises of the Kohler Company.
"4. Obstructing or interfering with the free and uninterrupted use
of public roads, streets, highways, railways or private drives leading
to the premises of the Kohler Company.
"It is further ordered that the Respondent Unions, their officers,
members and agents taketlke following affirmative action:
"1. Limit the number of jickets around the Kohler Company
premises to a total of not more thAn 200, with not more than 25
at any one entrance. Such pickets are to march in single file and
to at all times maintain a space of at least 20 feet in width at each
entrance to the Kohler Company premises over which pickets will
not pass and on which persons either on foot or in conveyance may
freely enter or leave the premises without interference."
4 The legal problems have received considerable attention in recent
years. A collection of available articles appears in Note, 53 Mich.
L. Rev. 602. See also Further Comments on Federalism, 54 Mich.
L. Rev. 540; Isaacson, Labor Relations Law: Federal versus State
Jurisdiction, 42 A. B. A. J. 415.
5 "SEC. 8...
"(b) It shall be an unfair labor practice for a labor organization
or its agents"(1) to restrain or coerce (A) employees in the exercise of the
" 61 Stat. 136, 141, 29 U. S. C.
rights guaranteed in section 7 ....
§ 158 (b)(1).
"SEC. 7.Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to
form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own'choosing, and to engage in other
concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other
mutual aid or protection, and shall also have the right to refrain
from any or all of such activities . . . ." 61 Stat. 140, 29 U. S. C.

§ 157.

AUTO WORKERS v. WISCONSIN BOARD.
266

271

Opinion of the
Court.
I

there is power under the Act to protect employees against
violence from labor organizations by assuring their right
to refrain from concerted labor activities, the National
Labor Board might have issued an order similar to that
of the State Board.' The provisions of the National
Labor Relations Act, as amended, cover the labor relations of the Kohler.Company. Labor Board v. Jones &
Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 31. These provisions
may be assumed to include the coercion not only of strikers
but also of other persons seeking employment with the
plant.7
By virtue of the Commerce Clause, Congress has power
to regulate all labor controversies in or affecting interstate commerce, such as are here involved. If the congressional enactment occupies .the field, its control by the
Supremacy Clause supersedes or, in the current phrase,
pre-empts state power. Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S.
1, 9. In the 1935 Act, § 10 (a), the Board was empowered
to prevent unfair labor practices. By § 10 (a) this power
was made "exclusive." 49 Stat. 449, 453, 29 U. S. C.
§ 160. In the Taft-Hartley amendments of 1947, the
word "exclusive" was omitted but the phrase, "shall not
be affected by any otherm'eans of adjustment or prevention that has been or may be established by agreement,
code, law, or otherwise," was re-enacted without significant change. The omission was explained in the Conference Report.8
6Cf. In the Matter of Local #1150, United Electrical, Radio &
Machine Workers, 84 N. L. R. B. 972; In-the Matter of Perry Norvell
Co., 80 N. L. R. B. 225; United Mine Workers of America, District 2,
96 N. L. R. B. 1389.
7 See Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 182, First.
Cf. Labor Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S. 111, 120, I.
11H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. 52:
"(1) The House bill omitted from section 10 (a) of the existing
law the language providing that the Board's power to deal with
unfair labor practices should not be affected by other means of

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

Yet under the 1935 Wagner Act this Court ruled that
Wisconsin, under its same Labor Peace Act, could enjoin
union conduct of the kind here involved. Allen-Bradley
Local v. Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S. 740. At that time,
however, the federal Act made no provision for enjoining
union activities. With the passage of the Taft-Hartley
Act in 1947, the Congress recognized that labor unions
also might commit unfair labor practices to the detriment of employees, and prohibited, among other practices,
coercion of employees who wish to refrain from, striking.
See n. 5, supra. Appellant urges that this amendment
eliminated the State's power to control the activities now
under consideration through state labor statutes.
It seems obvious that § 8 (b)(1) was not to be the
exclusive method of controlling violence even against
employees much less violence interfering with others
approaching an area where a strike was in progress.' No
one suggests that such violence is beyond state criminal
power. The Act does not have such regulatory pervasiveness, The state interest in law and order precludes such
interpretation. Senator Taft explained that the federal
adjustment or prevention, but it retained the language of the present
act which makes the Board's jurisdiction exclusive. The Senate
amendment, because of its provisions authorizing temporary injunctions enjoining alleged unfair labor practices and because of its provisions making unions suable, omitted the language giving the Board
exclusive jurisdiction of unfair labor practices, but retained that which

provides that the Board's power shall not be affected by other means
of adjustment or prevention. The conference agreement adopts the
provisions of the Senate amendment. By retaining the language

which provides the Board's powers under section 10 shall not be
affected by other means of adjustment, the conference agreement
makes clear that, when two remedies exist, one before the Board and

one before the courts, the remedy before the Board shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, other remedies."
9 United Construction Workers v. Laburnum Construction Corp.,
347 U. S. 656, 666-669, a state case that allowed tort recovery, makes
this clear.

AUTO WORKERS v. WISCONSIN BOARD.
266

273

Opinion of ihe Court.

prohibition against union violence would allow state
action."0
Appellant is of the view that such references were "to
the general state criminal law against violence and coercion, not to state labor relations statutes." But this cannot be correct since Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin
Board, the leading case dealing with violence under this
same Wisconsin statute, was well known to Congress.11
Cong. Rec. 4437:
"The Senator from Oregon a while ago said that the enactment of
this proposed legislation will result in duplication of some of the State
laws. It will duplicate some of the State laws only to the extent, as.
I see it, that actual violence is involved in the threat or in the
operation.
1093

"Mr. President, I may say further that one of the arguments has
suggested that in case this provision covered violence it duplicated
State law. I wish to point out that the provisions agreed to by the
committee covering unfair labor practices on the part of labor unions
also might duplicate to some extent that State law. Secondary boycotts, jurisdictional strikes, and so forth, may involve some violation
of State law respecting violence which may be criminal, and so to
some extent the measure may be duplicating the remedy existing
under State law. But that, in my opinion, is no valid argument."
See also 93 Cong. Rec. 4024; S. Rep. No. 105, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.
50.
11 There it was said:

"The only employee or union conduct and activity forbidden by
the state Board in this case was mass picketing, threatening employees
desiring to work with physical injury or property damage, obstructing
entrance to and egress from the company's factory, obstructing the
streets and public roads surrounding the factory, and picketing the
homes of employees. So far as the fourteen individuals are concerned,
their status as employees of the company was not affected.
"We agree with the statement of the United States as amicus curiae
that the federal Act was not designed to preclude a State from enacting legislation limited to the prohibition or regulation of this type
of employee or union activity. The Committee Reports on the federal Act plainly indicate that it is not 'a mere police court measure'
and that authority of the several States may be exerted to control

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

351 U. S.

The fact that the Labor Management Relations Act covered union unfair practices for the first time does not make
the Allen-Bradley case obsolete. Orders which originate
in state boards and become effective through the state
judiciary should give more careful protection to the rights
of labor than the purely judicial orders of a court.
There is no reason to re-examine the opinions in which
this Court has dealt with problems involving federalstate jurisdiction over industrial controversies. They
have been adequately summarized in Weber v. AnheuserBusch, Inc., 348 U. S.468, 474-477. As a general matter
we have held that a State may .not, in the furtherance
of its public policy, enjoin conduct "which has been made
an 'unfair labor practice' under the federal statutes." Id.,
at 475, and cases cited. But our post-Taft-Hartley opinions have made it clear that this general rule does not
take from the States power to prevent mass picketing,
violence, and overt threats of violence." The dominant
interest of the State in preventing violence and property
damage cannot be questioned. It is a matter of genuine
local concern. Nor should the fact that a union commits
a federal unfair labor practice while engaging in violent
conduct prevent States from taking steps to stop the
violence. This conclusion has been explicit in the
opinions cited in note 12.
The States are the natural guardians of the public
against violence. It is the local communities that suffer
such conduct.

Furthermore, this Court has long insisted that an

'intention of Congress to exclude States from exerting their police
power must be clearly manifested.'. . . Congress has not made such
employee and union conduct as is involved in this case subject to
regulation by the federal Board." 315 U. S.740, 748-749.
12 See Weber v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 348 U. S. 468, 477, 482;
United Construction Workers v. Laburtum Construction Corp., 347
U. S.656, 666-669; Garner v. Teamsters Union, 346 U. S.485, 488;
International Union v. O'Brien, 339 U. S. 454, 459; International
Union v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, 336 U. S. 245, 253.

AUTO WORKERS v. WISCONSIN BOARD.
266

DOUGLAS,

275

J., dissenting.

most from the fear and loss occasioned by coercion and
destruction. We would not interpret an act of Congress
to leave them powerless to avert such emergencies without
compelling directions to that effect.
We hold that Wisconsin may enjoin the violent union
conduct here involved. The fact that Wisconsin has
chosen to entrust its power to a labor board is of no
concern to this Court.1"
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom THE CHIEF
and MR. JUSTICE BLACK concur, dissenting.

JUSTICE

There are instances where we have sustained identical
regulatiuns of the same act by both a State and the Federal Government. Californiav. Zook, 336 U. S. 725, is an
example. But the instances are few and far between.
Of course, where the States and the Federal Government regulate the same act, but each with a different sanction, both often survive. United Workers v. Laburnum
Corp., 347 U. S. 656, is a recent example. We there
allowed a common-law tort action for damages to be enforced in a state court for the same acts that could have
been the basis for administrative relief under the federal
Act. But the present case is not that case. Here the
State has prescribed an administrative remedy that duplicates the administrative remedy prescribed by Congress.
Each reaches the same identical conduct. We disallowed
that duplication of remedy in Garnerv. Teamsters Union,
346 U. S. 485. In that case we held that a state court
could not enjoin action which was subject to an unfair
labor proceeding under the federal Act. And see Weber v.
Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 348 U. S. 468. Today we depart
from Garner and allow a state board to enjoin action
13 Cf. Hughes v. Superior Court, 339 U. S. 460, 467; International
Brotherhood of Teamsters v. Hanke, 339 U. S. 470, 479.

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

351 U. S.

which is subject to an unfair labor proceeding before the
federal board. We sanction a precise duplication of
remedies which is pregnant with potentialities of clashes
and conflicts.*
Of course the States may control violence. They may
make arrests and invoke their criminal law to the hilt.
They transgress only when they allow their administrative agencies or their courts to enjoin the conduct that
Congress has authorized the federal agency to enjoin.
We retreat from Garner and open the door to unseemly
conflicts between state and federal agencies when we sustain what Wisconsin has done here.

*Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S. 740, is not in
point because the federal. Act at that time made no provision for
enjoining union activities.

