166

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

PUMPELLY V.

GREE--N

BAY COMPANY.

1. Where a plea relies on a statute authority as a defence, it must allege the
facts which it asserts to be so authorized, and cannot plead generally
that it complied with the statute. Hence a plea is bad which states
that defendant raised the water in a lake no higher than the statute
authorized, when the State forbid the water being raised above its
ordinary level.
2. Where a declaration charges a defendant with overflowing the plaintiff's
land by raising the water in the lake, a plea containing neither a denial
of what is alleged nor authority for doing it is bad.
3. By the general law of European nations and the common law of England
it was a qualification of the right of eminent domain that compensation
should be made for private property taken or sacrificed for public use.
4. And the constitutional provisions Gf the United States and of the several
States which declare that private property shall not be taken for public
use without just compensation were intended to establish this principle
beyond legislative control.
5. It is not necessary that property should be absolutely taken, in the narrowest sense of that word, to bring the case within the protection of this
constitutional provision. There may be such serious interruption to
the common and necessary use of property as will be equivalent to a
taking, within the meaning of the Constitution.
6. The backing of water so as to overflow the lands of an individual, or any
other superinduced addition of water, earth, sand, or other material or
artificial structure placed on land, if done under statutes authorizing it
for the public benefit, is such a taking as by the constitutional provision
demands compensation.
7. This proposition is sustained by the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin construing the provision of the constitution of that State on
the subject, and by many other adjudged cases in this country.
8. The cases which hold that remote and consequential injury to private
property by reason of authorized public improvements is not taking
such property for public use have many of them gone to the utmost
limit of that principle, and some beyond it, though the principle is a
sound one in its proper application to many injuries so originating.
9. Lands sold by the United States with no reservation, though bordering
on a navigable stream, are as much within the protection of the constitutional principle awarding compensation as other private property.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Wiscousin; the case being thus:
The Constitution of Wisconsin ordains that

"The property of no person shall be taken for public use
without just compensation therefor."

Dec. 1871.]

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

167

Statement of the case.

With this provision in force as fundamental law, one
Pumpelly, in September, 1867, brought trespass on the case
against the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company for
overflowing 640 acres of his land, by means of a dam erected
across Fox River, the northern outlet of Lake Winnebago,
by which, as the declaration averred, the waters of the lake
were raised so high as to forcibly and with violence overflow
all his said laud, from the time of the completion of the dam
in 1861 to the commencement of this suit; the water coming
with such a violence, the declaration averred, as to tear up
his trees and grass by the roots, and wash them, with his
hay by tons, away, to choke up his drains and fill up his
ditches, to saturate some of his lands with water, and to
dirty and injure other parts by bringing and leaving on them
deposits of sand, and otherwise greatly injuring him. The
canal company pleaded six pleas, of which the second was
the most important, but of which the fourth and sixth may
also be mentioned.
This second plea was divisible, apparently, into two parts.
The first part set up (quoting it entire) a statute of Wisconsin Territory, approved March 10th, 1848, by which one
Curtis Reed and his associates were authorized to construct
a dam across Fox River, the northern outlet of Winnebago
Lake, to enable them to use the waters of the river for hydraulic purposes.
The second section of the act quoted read thus:
"Said dam shall not exceed seven feet in height above highwater mark of said river: Provided, that said dam shall not'
raise the water in Lake Winnebago above its ordinary level.
"And the said Curtis Reed and his associates, their heirs and
assigns, shall be subject to, and entitled to, all the benefit and
provisions of the Act relating to Mills and Mill-dams, approved
January 13th, 1840."
[NOTE.-" The 'Act relating to Mills and Mill-dams, approved
January 13th, 18,f0,' thus referred to in the statute of 1848, as an
act to which Reed and his associates should be subject, was an
act of Wisconsin which provided a special remedy for persons
whose lands were overflowed or otherwise injured by mill-dams.
Section 4 was as follows:

168

TPUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"'Any person whose land is- overflowed or otherwise injured by such
dam may obtain compensation therefor upon his complaint before the
District Court for the county where the land, or any part thereof, lies :
provided, that no compensation shall be awarded for any damages sustained more than three years before the institution of the suit.' "
" Sections 5 to 27, inclusive, provided for the manner of prosecuting the suit, the form, effect, and mode of enforcing the judgment, and for appeals and proceedings thereon. Section 28 was
thus:
" 'No action shall be sustained at common law for the recovery of
damages for the erecting, maintaining, or using any mill or mill-dam,
except as provided in this act.' "]
The plea, still continuing its first part, averred that Reed
and an associate commenced the building of this dam; that
by certain legislation of Wisconsin (now become a State) it
was afterwards adopted as part of the system of improving
the navigation of the Fox River, and became the property
of the defendants. The plea, after referring to the provisions of the act of 1848, averred
"That the said dam was built to the same height and in the
same manner, and to no greater height and in no different manner
from that duly authorized under and according to the provisions
aforesaid, and to no greater height than was authorized by the
act aforesaid, approved March 10th, 1848.
" That the said dam has ever since been and is now continued
and maintained at the same and no greater height, and in the
same and no different manner from that to which and in which
it was originally built and erected as aforesaid."
In what might be distinguished as its second part, the
plea having set forth and pleaded in the first, as already indicated, that the legislature of Wisconsin after it bad become
a State passed an act to provide for the improvement of the
Fox and Wisconsin Rivers; that Doty and his associate accepted the terms of the act; that under the act a board of
public works was organized, which, through Doty and his
associate, built the darm-went on to say, that by subsequent
legislation, in the years 1861 and 1866, the present defendants were made a corporation under the laws of Wisconsin,

Dec. 1871.]

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

169

Statement of the case.

and became possessed of the "River Improvement," so
called, and of its dams, water-powers, "also all other rights,
privileges, franchises, easements, and appurtenances of all
kinds described in the acts of the legislature of Wisconsin,
&c., . . . including the easement or right to overflow, as
hereinafter mentioned." The plea then proceeded to say
that by the act of building and completing the dam, &c., and
by means of the waters of Lake Winnebago, Reed and Doty,
and the State by its board of public works, did, as they lawfully might do, seize, and, to the extent necessary and for the
purposes of a water-power and of the said improvement, take
possession of the lands and premises, trees, grass, herbage,
drains, ditches, &c., in the declaration mentioned, to the extent that the same were, as therein alleged, destroyed, damaged, overflowed, saturated, and subverted, and otherwise
injured; that the seizure and taking possession were so
made and don6 under claim and color of right and title duly
made by virtue of the laws of Wisconsin, and that the defendant had done as lawfully it might.
THE FOURTH plea set forth the legislation authorizing the
erection of the dam and the improvement of "the river, the
title of the defendant to the improvement and its privileges
and duties in relation thereto-all as in the second pleaand alleged that the dam was completed in the year 1852;
that the State, by its board of public works, seized so much
of the plaintiff's land as was overflowed and as was necessary for this improvement, and ever since the completion
of the dam, in 1852, that the State, its successors, and the
defendant, had held, and that the defendant now held the
same; that such seizure was made under claim and color of
right and title, by virtue of the laws of Wisconsin; publicly
and notoriously, and with the knowledge and acquiescence
of the plaintiff, and under like claim and color, and in like
manner had since been held; that the plintiff, at the time
of such seizure, was seized in fee and was in possession of
the land described in the declaration, subject to the rights
acquired by the State by its seizure and possession; that

170

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

during all the said time-i. e., since the completion of the
dam, in 1852-the plaintiff had been under no disability
which disabled him from bringing suit.
THE SIXTH plea alleged that by the Ordinance of 1787, the
act of Congress of August 7th, 1789, the act establishing
the territorial government of Wisconsin, the act admitting
the State of Wisconsin into the Union, the Constitution of
the State of Wisconsin, and the laws of the United States
and of the State of Wisconsin, it was declared that the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence,
and the carrying-places, &c., should be common highways
and forever free; that the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers and
Lake Winnebago were and ever had been of the navigable
waters thus referred to; that the Fox River was a navigable
water leading into the St. Lawrence.
The plea then set out the legislation in regard to the improvement, the incorporation of the Fox and Wisconsin Improvement Company, the organization, incorporation, and
title of the canal company (the defendant), as set forth before, and further alleged that the dam was built and maintained under'the authority of the laws of the United States
and of the State of Wisconsin, and the board of public
works; that as constructed and maintained, it was and is an
essential portion of the works for the improvement of the
navigability of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, and to the
proper development as common navigable highways; that
the ordinance, the laws of Congress and of the State, granted
and assigned to the defendant, the improvement and the
easement, right and privilege of overflowing, &c., the lands
described in the declaration, to the extent necessary to improve the navigability of said rivers; that under a treaty
with the Winnebago Indians, in 1832, the United States
patented certain land (of which the plaintiff's was a part) to
one Theresa Paquette; that she, the said Theresa and original grantor of the lands described in the declaration, and
all the subsequent grantees thereof, including the plaintiff,
purchased with full notice of, and subject to, the easement

Dec. 1871.]

PUMPELLY v. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

171

Argument for the builders of the dam.

and right aforesaid; and which easement and right was
granted to the State prior to the original grant of title to
plaintiff's land, which is alleged to have been in 1849.
A general demurrer to these three pleas being overruled
by the court, the plaintiff brought the case here.
Messrs. B. J. Stevens and H. L. Palmer, in support of the"
ruling below:
I. The fact that our dam causes an overflow, even if the
fact were conceded, does not make us liable anywhere. For
the second section of the act of March 10th, 1848, gave us a
right to build a dam of seven feet, or of any greater height,
above high-water mark in Fox River, provided only that
such darn did'not raise the water in Lake Winnebago above
its ordinary level. And it gave us a right to build to the
seven feet, let the result be what it might. This is the fair
construction of the proriso. N~ow we have pleaded that we
built the dam just as the statute authorized us to build it;
that is to say, conceding an overflow, that we have built it
seven feet high and no more. These facts being admitted
by the demurrer, the judgment was properly given for the
defendant.
Further than this, the Mill-dam Act of 1840 having provided a special remedy for injuries sustained by the owners
of lands overflowed by mill-dams, the remedy thus provided
is the only one available to the land-owner, and excludes all
others.
II. Passing to the second part of the plea, we come to a
grave question in State constitutional law; but here, too,
we say that the plaintiff has no claim, and that the demurrer
was rightly overruled.
The Fox River being a public navigable river, and a common public highvay (as it will be admitted in virtue of wellknown public legislation to be), primifacie and ofr common
right belongs to the sovereign power. The lands of individuals bounded on this public navigable river and on the
lakes through which it runs, and which form a part of it,

PUMPELLY v. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

172

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the builders of the dam.

were indeed granted to those individuals by the State or
National government; but neither the State nor the government thereby divested itself of the right and power of improving the navigation of the river, and may improve it
without liability for remote and consequential damages to
individuals.
In Lansing v. Smith,* a statute of New York authorized
the construction of a basin in the Hudson at Albany, and
erections whereby the docks, &c., of the plaintiff were rendered inaccessible by vessels and much depreciated in value.
But it was determined that the act, although it provided no
compensation for such inJury, was not unconstitutional, either
as taking private property for public use without compensation or as impairing the obligation of contracts; that the
plaintiff had not at common law, as owner of the adjacent
soil, nor by virtue of a grant from the State for land under
water opposite to the shore, and under which he claimed, a
right " to the natural flow of the river with which the State
had no right to interfere by any erection in the bed of the
river or in any other manner."
The doctrine of this case was followed in Pennsylvania, in

McKeen v. The DelawareDicision Canal Company.t That was
an action to recover damages fbr i nj uries alleged to have been
sustained by the plaintiff, by reason of the erection by the
defendant of a dam across the Lehigh River for the purpose
of improving the navigation of the river, which caused the
water to flow back into the plaintiff's mill-race and thereby
injured his fall and water-power. The court held that this
was but the common case of a consequential injury, and that
the injury " which followed the raising of the water in the
stream to improve navigation was not a taking of his property, but one merely consequential, which he must suffer
without compensation, unless the State should choose out
of grace to concede it." "Every one," says the court, " who
buys property on a navigable stream purchases subject to
the superior rights of the Commonwealth to regulate and
*8

Cowen, 146.

t- 49 :Pennsylvania State, 424.

Dec. 1-871.]

PUMPELLY v. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

173

Argument for the builders of the dam.

improve it for the benefit of all her citizens." This same
view is had in numerous Pennsylvania cases;* and these
cases are, we think, approved by this court in Bundle v. Delaware and -RaritanCanal Company.t
In Canal Appraisers v. The People,T a New York case, it
was determined that "if, in the improvement of the navigation of a public river, the waters of a tributary stream are
so much 'raised as to destroy a valuable mill site situated
thereon, and the stream be generally navigable, although
not so at the particular locality of the mill site, the owner is
not entitled to damages within the provisions of the canal
laws, directing compensation to be made for private property taken for public use."
To the same effect is The People v. The Canal Appraisers,ยง
decided in the same State by the Court of Appeals, in 1865;
Fitchburg Railroad Co. v. Boston and Maine Bailroad Co.,j in
Massachusetts; Hollister v. The Union Company, in Connecticut; Commissioners of Homochilto v. Tithers,** in Mississippi,
and Hanson v. La Fayette,tt in Louisiana.
But we must direct particular attention to the Wisconsin
case of Alexander v. Ct1y of Milwaukee.j$ The plaintiff there
owned lots on the Milwaukee River, on which he had docks
and a shipyard. The city of Milwaukee, under legislative
authority, constructed the existing "straight cut" harbor,
for the purpose of improving navigation and promoting the
interests of comimerce. By reason of the construction of the
harbor, the waters of the lake were from time to time driven

through the cut and upon and over the plaintiff's premises,
washed away his buildings, materials, and portions of the
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. Coons, 6 Watts & Sergeant, 101; Susquehanna Canal Co. v. Wright, 9 Id. 9; Henry v. Pittsburg and Alleghany
Bridge Co., 8 Id. 85; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. Coon, 6 Barr, 379;
Mliffin v. Railroad Co., 4 Harris, 182; New York and Erie R. R. Co. v.
Young, 9 Casey, 175; Monongahela Bridge Co. v. Kirk, 46 Pennsylvania
State, 112; Watson v. P. & C. R. R. Co., 1 Wright, 469; Shrunk v. Schuylkill Navigation Co., 14 Sergeant & Rawle, 71.
33 New York, 461.
: 17 Wendell, 571.
t 14 Howard, 80.
** 29 Mississippi, 21.
9 Connecticut, 435.
113 Cushing, 68.
$ 16 Wisconsin, 247.
t- 18 Louisiana, 295.

174

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lots, and filled up the channel of the river opposite the plaintiff's premises, so as to render it useless, and substantially
destroyed his shipyard. The action was to recover the damages thus sustained. The Supreme Court held that the city
was not liable for the consequential damages produced by
the improvement to property in the vicinity of such improvement, no part of which was taken or used therefor;
and "that the making of a public improvement in the
vicinity of private property, which is incidentally injured
thereby, or diminished in volume, but no part of which is
taken or used for such improvement, is not a taking of private property for public use within the meaning of the Constitution."
Thus it seems clear that a State may, in the interest of
the public, erect such works as may be deemed expedient
for the purpose of improving the navigation and increasing
usefulness of a navigable river, without rendering itself
liable to individuals owning land bordering on such river,
for injuries to their lands resulting from their overflow by
reason of such improvements.
In this case, whatever has been done by way of improving
the Fox River; whatever has been done by way of erecting
and maintaining the dam in question, has been done by the
State itself or by its express authority. The defendant's
lands have not been taken or appropriated. They are only
affected by the overflow occasioned by raising the water in
Lake Winnebago. Whatever may be the extent of this injury, it is remote and consequential and without remedy.
III. The fourth and sixth pleas involve in the main the
same constitutional question as here raised. The court will
itself consider any points of difference.
Messrs. J. Hl. Gillet and D. Taylor, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The second plea, the most important, is technically liable
to the objection that it relies on two substantially different
grounds of defence, but as the demurrer was general and

Dec. 1871.]

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

175

Opinion of the court.

not special, and as the part of it which sets up the first of
these defences may be treated as mere inducement to the
other, we will consider whether there is found in the plea
any sufficient defence to the cause of action set out in the
declaration.
This first part of the plea is clearly designed to present
this defence, that the dam was authorized by statute and
built in conformity to the specific requirements of the act, so
that the defendants are not liable for exceeding the authority
which it conferred, and that for any injury to the plaintiff's
property arising from this lawful erection of the dam his
only remedy was the one provided in the act referred to,
concerning mills and mill-dams. As this enacted that persons whose lands were overflowed might obtain compensation upon complaint before the District Court of the county
where the land lay, and that no action at common law should
be sustained for such damages, except as provided in the
act; if the remainder of the plea is good, it is a defence to
the present suit. But this part of the plea is defective in
this. It is contended by the counsel for the defendants that
the second section of the act authorizes them to build their
dam seven -feet above high-water mark of the river at all
events, and that the restriction that the water of the lae
shall not be raised above its ordinary level is only applicable
to such raising, if the dam should exceed the first limitation;
while the counsel for the plaintiff asserts that both limita-,
tions were effectual, and that if the dam raised the water in
the lake above its ordinary level the law was violated, though
it may not have reached the seven feet above high-water
of the river.
It will be seen that the plea, in averring that the dam,
when completed, was no higher than the statute authorized,
pleads a conclusion of law, and does not state the facts on
which the court can construe the law for itself and ascertain
if the fact pleaded is a good defence. This is bad pleading. It
is also liable to the objection that it does not either deny the
allegation of the declaration, that the dam raised the water
in Winnebago Lake so as to overflow the plaintiff's land,

176

PUMPELLY v. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nor admit that allegation and aver that they were authorized
to do so by the statute. But, as we are of opinion that the
statute did not authorize the erection of a dam which would
raise the water of the lake above the ordinary level, and as
the plea does not deny that the dam of the defendant did so
raise the water of the lake, we must hold that, so far as the
plea relies on this statute as a defence, it is fatally defective.
But this same plea further alleges that the legislature of
Wisconsin, after it became a State, projected a system of
improving the navigation of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers,
which adopted the dam of Reid and Doty, then in process
of construction, as part of that system; and that, under that
act, a board of public works was established, which made
such arrangements with Reid and Doty that they continued
and completed the dam; and that, by subsequent legislation,
changing the organization under which the work was carried
on, the defendants finally became the owners of the dam,
with such powers concerning the improvement of the navigation of the river as the legislature could confer in that
regard. But it does not appear that any statute made provision for compensation to the plaintiff, or those similarly injured, for damages to their lands. So that the plea, as thus
considered, presents substantially the defence that the State
of Wisconsin, having, in the progress of its system of improving the navigation of the Fox River, authorized the erection of the dam as it now stands, without any provision for
compensating the plaintiff fbr the injury which it does him,
the defendant asserts the right, under legislative authority,
to build and continue the dam without legal responsibility
for those injuries.
And counsel for the defendant, with becoming candor,
argue that the damages of which the plaintiff complains are
such as the State had a right to inflict in improving the
navigation of the Fox River, without making any compensation for them.
This requires a construction of the Constitution of Wiscousin; for though the Constitution of the United States
provides that private property shall not be taken for public

Dec. 1871.]

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COmPANY.

177

Opinion of the court.

use without just compensation, it is well settled that this is
a limitation on the power of the Federal government, and
not on the States. The Constitution of Wisconsin, however, has a provision almost identical in language, viz.: that
"the property of no person shall be taken for public use
without just compensation therefor."* Indeed this limitation on the exercise of the right of eminent domain is so
essentially a part of American constitutional law that it is
believed that no State is now without it, and the only question that we are to consider is whethqr the injury to plaintiff's property, as set forth in his declaration, is within its
protection.
The declaration states that, by reason of the dam, the
water of the lake was so raised as to cause it to overflow all
his land, and that the overflow remained continuously from
the completion of the dam, in the year 1861, to the commencement of the suit in the year 1867, and the nature of
the injuries set out in the declaration are such as show that
it worked an almost complete destruction of the value of the
land.
The argument of the defendant is that there is no taki'ng
of the land within the meaning of the constitutional provision, and that the damage is a consequential result of such
use of a navigable stream as the government had a right to
for the improvement of its navigation.
It would be a very curious and unsatisfactory result, if
in construing a provision of constitutional law, always understood to have been adopted for protection and security
to the rights of the individual as against the government,
and which has received the commendation of jurists, statesmen, and commentators as placing the just principles of the
common law on that subject beyond the power of ordinary
legislation to change or control them,. it shall be held that
if the government refrains from the absolute conversion of
real property to the uses of the public it can destroy its
value entirely, can inflict irreparable and permanent injury
* Sec. 13, Article 1.
VOL. XIII.

12

178

PUMPELLY v. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to any extent, can, in effect, subject it to total destruction
without making any compensation, because, in the narrowest
sense of that word, it is not taken for the public use. Such a
construction would pervert the constitutional provision into
a restriction upon the rights of the citizen, as those rights
stood at the common law, instead of the government, and
make it an authority for invasion of private right under
the pretext of the public good, which had no warrant in the
laws or practices of our ancestors.
In the case of Sinnickson v. Johnson,* the defendant had
been authorized by an act of the legislature to shorten the
navigation of Salem Creek by cutting a canal, and by building a dam across the stream. The canal was well built, but
the dam caused the water to overflow the plaintiff's land, for
which he brought suit. Although the State of New Jersey
then had no such provision in her constitution as the one
cited from Wisconsin, the Supreme Court held the statute
to be no protection to the action for damages. Dayton, J.,
said "that this power to take private property reaches back
of all constitutional provisions; and it seems to have been a
settled principle of universal law that the right to compensation is an incident to the exercise of that power; that the
one is inseparably connected with the other; that they may
be said to exist, not as separate and distinct principles, but
as parts of one and the same principle." For this proposition
he cites numerous authorities, but the case is mainly valuable here as showing that overflowing land by backing the
water on it was considered as "taking" it within the meaning of the principle.
In the case of Gardner v. Newburgh,t Chancellor Kent
granted an injunction to prevent the trustees of Newburg
from diverting the water of a certain stream flowing over
plaintiff's land from its usual course, because the act of the
legislature which authorized it had made no provision for
compensating the plaihtiff for the injury thus done to his
land. And he did this though there was no provision in the
*2 Harrison, New Jersey, 129.

t 2 Johnson's Chancery, 162.

Dec. 1871.]. PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

179

Opinion of the court.

Constitution of New York such as we have mentioned, and
though he recognized that the water was taken for a public
use. After citing several continental jurists on this right of
eminent domain, he says that while they admit that private
property may be taken for public uses when public necessity
or utility requires, they all lay it down as a clear principle
of natural equity that the individual whose property is thus
sacrificed must be indemnified. And he adds that the principles and practice of the English government are equally
explicit on this point. It will be seen in this case that it was
the diversion of the water from the plaintiff's land, which
was considered as taking private property for public use, but
which, under the argument of the defendants' counsel, would,
like overflowing the land, be called only a consequential
injury.
If these be correct statements of the limitations upon the
exercise of the right of eminent domain, as the doctrine
was understood before it had the benefit of constitutional
sanction, by the construction now sought to be placed upon
the Constitution it would become an instrument of oppression rather than protection to individual rights.
But there are numerous authorities to sustain the doctrine
that a serious interruption to the common and necessary use
of property may be, in the language of Mr. Angell, in his
work on water-courses, equivalent to the taking of it, and
that under the constitutional provisions it is not necessary
that the land should be absolutely taken.* And perhaps no
State court has given more frequent utterance to .the doctrine that overflowing land by backing water on it from dams

built below is within the constitutional rovision, than that
of Wisconsin. In numerous cases of this kind under the
Mill and Mill-dam Act of that State this question has arisen,
and the right of the mill-owner to flow back the water has
* Angell on Water-courses, 465 a; Hooker v. New Haven and Northampton Co., 14 Connecticut, 146; Rowe v. Granite Bridge Co., 21 Pickering, 344; Canal Appraisers v. The People, 17 Wendell, 604; Lackland v.
Worth Missouri Railroad Co., 31 Missouri, 180; Stevens v. Proprietors of
Middlesex Canal, 12 Massachusetts, 466.

180

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been repeatedly placed on the ground that it was a taking
of private property for public use. It is true that the court
has often expressed its doubt whether the use under that act
was a public one, within the meaning of the Constitution,
but it has never been doubted in any of those cases that it
was such a taking as required compensation under the Constitution.* As it is the constitution of that State that we
are called on to construe, these decisions of her Supreme
Court, that overflowing land by means of a dam across a
stream is taking private property, within the meaning of
that instrument, are of special weight if not conclusive on
us. And in several of these cases the dams were across
navigable streams.
It is difficult to reconcile the case of Alexander v. Milwaukee,t with those just cited, and in its opinion the court seemed
to feel the same difficulty. They assert that the weight of
authority is in favor of leaving the party injured without
remedy when the damage is inflicted for the public good,
and is remote and consequential. There are some strong
features of analogy between that case and this, but we are
not prepared to say, in the face of what the Wisconsin court
had previously decided, that it would hold the case before us
to come within the principle of that case. At all events, as
the court rests its decision upon the general weight of authority and not upon anything special in the language of the
Wisconsin bill of rights, we feel at liberty to hold as we do
that the case made by the plaintiff's declaration is within
the protection of the constitutional principle embodied in
that instrument.
We are not unaware of the numerous cases in the State
courts in which the doctrine has been successfully invoked
that for a consequential injury to the property of the individual arising from the prosecution of improvements of
roads, streets, rivers, and other highways, for the public
* Pratt v. Brown, 3 Wisconsin, 613; Walker v. Shepardson, 4 Id. 511;
Fisher v. Horicon Iron Co., 10 Id. 353; Newell v. Smith, 15 Id. 104; Goodall v. City of M\ilwaukee, 5 Id. 39; Weeks v. City of Milwaukee, 10 Id. 242.
1116 Wisconsin, 248.

Dec. 1871.]

PUMPELLY

v.

GREE,T BAY COmPANY.

181

Opinion of the court.

good, there is no redress; and we do not deny that the principle is a sound one, in its proper application, to many injuries to property so originating. And when, in the exercise
of our duties here, we shall be called upon to construe other
State constitutions, we shall not be unmindful of the weight
due to the decisions of the courts of those States. But we
are of opinion that the decisions referred to have gone to
the uttermost limit of sound judicial construction in favor
of this principle, and, in some cases, beyond it, and that it
remains true that where real estate is actually invaded by
superinduced additions of water, earth, sand, or other material, or by having any artificial structure placed on it, so as
to effectually destroy or impair its usefulness, it is a taking,
within the meaning of the Constitution, and that'this proposition is not in conflit with the weight of judicial authority
in this country, and certainly not with sound principle. Beyond this we do not go, and this case calls us to go no
further.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the second plea set up
no valid defence, and that the demurrer to it should have
been sustained.
The fourth plea recites substantially the same statutes,
and acts of the defendants and their predecessors as the
second plea, and avers that the dam was completed to its
present height in 1852, and that the defendants have ever
since had, used, and enjoyed the easement of overflowing
the plaintiff's lands with his acquiescence, and that they
had done this under color of right, and as they lawfully
might do.
If this is intended as a plea of prescription for an easement the time is not long enough. It requires twenty years.
If it is designed as a plea of disseizin it is bad, because it
avers that the plaintiff has all the time been seized in fee and
in possession of the land in controversy.
But the foundation of the plea seems to be the authority
conferred by the various statutes of Wisconsin mentioned in
the second plea. We have already held that the defendants

PUMPELLY V. GREEN BAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

were not protected by the act of March 10th, 1848, because
they exceeded the authority conferred by it, and that, as to
the plaintiff's rights, the subsequent statutes were void because they contained no provision for compensation. There
is, therefore, no light in which we can view this fourth plea
that makes it a good one. The demurrer to it should have
been sustained.
The sixth plea, after setting up all the matters alleged in
the second, and also that by the Ordinance of 1787 and the
subsequent legislation of Congress, the navigable streams of
that territory were to be forever preserved as free highways,
then avers that the land of the plaintiff came to him through
a reservation in an Indian treaty in favor of one Therese Pacquett, who received a patent from the.United States in 1849.
It is alleged that this title came to the plaintiff burdened with
an casement in favor of improving the navigation of the Fox
River, which authorized the injuries complained of, and of
which, therefore, he could not complain.
We do not think it necessary to consume time in proving
that when the United States sells land by treaty or otherwise, and parts with the fee by patent without reservations,
it retains no right to take that land for public use without
just compensation, nor does it confer such a right on the
State within which it lies; and that the absolute ownership
and right of private property in such land is not varied by
the fact that it borders on a navigable stream.
The demurrer to this plea should also have been sustained.
and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

NOT INCONSISTENT WITH THIS OPINION.

