TooF

V. M
/ARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

TooF

ET AL. V.

MARTIN, ASSIGNEE, ETC.

1. By insolvency, as used in the bankrupt act when applied to traders and
merchants, is meant inability of a party to pay his debts, as they become due, in the ordinary course of business.
2. The transfer, by a debtor, of a large portion of his property, while he is
insolvent, to one creditor, without making provision for an equal distribution of its proceeds to all his creditors, necessarily operates as a
preference to him, and must be taken as conclusive evidence that a
preference was intended, unless the debtor can show that he was at the
time ignorant of his insolvency, and that his affairs were such that he
could reasonably expect to pay all his debts. The burden of proof is
upon him in such a case, and not upon the assignee or contestant in bankruptcy.
3. A creditor has reasonable cause to believe a debtor, who is a trader, to
be insolvent when such a state of facts is brought to the creditor's notice
respecting the affairs and pecuniary condition of the debtor as would
lead a prudent business man to the conclusion that he is unable to meet
his obligations as they mature in the ordinary course of business.
4. A transfer by an insolvent debtor with a view to secure his property, or
any part of it, to one creditor, and thus prevent an equal distribution
among all his creditors, is a transfer in fraud of the bankrupt act.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Arkansas;
the case being thus:
The 35th section of the bankrupt act of 1867, thus enacts:

"That if any person, being insolvent, or in contemplation of
insolvency, with a view to give a preference to any creditor or
person having a claim against him .... makes any assignment,
(the
transfer, or conveyance of any part of his property ....
person receiving such assignment, transfer, or conveyance, having reasonable cause to believe such person is insolvent, and that
such assignment or conveyance is made in fraud of the provisions of this act), the same shall be void, and the assignee may
recover the property, or the value of it, from the person so receiving it or so to be benefited."

With this enactment in force, Martin, assignee in bankruptcy of Haines and Chetlain, filled a bill in the District
Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas, against J. S.
Toof, C. J. Phillips, and F. M. Mahan, trading as Toot, Phillips & Co. (Haines and Chetlain being also made parties), to

Dec. 1871.]

Toop v.

M/ARTIN.

Statement of the case.

set aside and cancel certain conveyances alleged to have
been made by these last in fraud of the above-quoted act.
Haines and Ohetlain were, in February, 1868, and had
been for some years before, merchants, doing business
under the firm name of W. P. Haines & Co., at Augusta,
Arkansas. On the 29th of that month they filed a petition
for the benefit of the bankrupt act, and on the 28th of May
following were adjudged bankrupts, and the complainant
was appointed assignee of their estates. On the 18th of the
previous January, which was about six weeks before the
filing of their petition, they conveyed an undivided halfinterest in certain parcels of land owned by them at Augusta, to Toof, Phillips & Co., who were doing business at
Memphis, iu Tennessee, for the consideration of $1876,
which sum was to be credited on a debt due from them to
that firm. At the same time they assigned to one Mahan, a
member of that firm, a title-bond which they held for certain
other real property at Augusta, upon which they had made
valuable improvements. The consideration of this assignment was two drafts of Mahan on Toof, Phillips & Co.,
each for $3034, one drawn to the order of Haines, and the
other to the order of Chetlain. The amount of both drafts
was credited on the debt of Haines & Co. to Toof, Phillips
& Co., pursuant to an understanding to that effect made at
the time. There was then due of the purchase-money of
the property, for which the title-bond was given, about $700.
This sum Mahan paid, and took a conveyance to himself
from the obligor who held the fee.
The bill charged specifically that at the time these conveyances were made the bankrupts were insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency; that the conveyances were made
with a view to give a preference to Toof, Phillips & Co.,
who were the creditors of the bankrupts; that Toof, Phillips
& Co. knew, or had reasonable cause to believe, that the
bankrupts were then insolvent, and that the conveyances
were made in fraud of the provisions of the bankrupt act.
It also charged that the assignment of the title-bond to
Mahan was in fact for the use and benefit of Toof, Phillips

TooF

V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

& Co., for the purpose of securing the property or its value
to them in fraud of the rights of the creditors, and that this
purpose was known and participated in by Mahan.
The answer, admitting a large amount of debts at the time
of the conveyances in question, denied that the bankrupts
were then "insolvent," asserting, on the contrary, " that at
the time aforesaid said Haines & Co. had available assets in
excess of their indebtedness to the extent of $16,000." It
also denied that there was a purpose to give a preference;
asserting that the conveyances of the land were made because Iaines & Co., not having cash to pay the debt due
Toot; Phillips & Co., were willing to settle in property; and
it denied that the title-bond was assigned to Mahan for the
benefit of Tool, Phillips & Co., or that they paid for the
same; but on the contrary averred that Mahan bought the
property and paid for it himself, and for his own use and
benefit, out of his own funds.
Appended to the bill were several interrogatories, the first
of which inquired whether at the time of making the transfers to Toof, Phillips & Co. the indebtedness of W. P. Haines
& Co. was not known to be greater than their immediate
ability to pay; and to this Toof, Phillips & Co. answered that
at the time of making these transfers they did not believe
Iaines & Co. were able to pay their debts in money, but that
they were able to do so on a fair market valuation of the
property they owned, and of their assets generally.
Chetlain, one of the bankrupts, testified that on the 18th
of January, 1868, Haines & Co. could not pay their notes as
they came due; that previous to this time they had contemplated bankruptcy, and that he had had several conversations with Mr. F. M. Mahan, relative to their finances, and
had told him the amount, or near the amount, of their debts.
His advice was to get extensions, and he would help them
get through; that after his promises to advance them more
goods, they concluded not to go into bankruptcy, but to go
on in business; that he told Mahan that Haies & Co. could
not pay out; and in a conversation with him previous to the
transfer of the real estate, he, Chetlain, told Malian that

Dec. 1871.]

TooF v. MARTIN.
Statement of the case.

such was the state of the finances of Haines & Co. that if he
would assume their liabilities, and give them a receipt,
Haines & Co. would turn over all their assets to him. He
did not accept.
He also testified that about the 1st of January, 1868, the
sheriff levied on the goods belonging to Haines & Co., in
their storehouse in Augusta, on an execution in favor of
one Weghe, which caused them to suspend business for a
few days, until the levy was dissolved b7 ordeir of the sheriff,
at or about the 15th day of January, 1868. Mahan was in
Augusta at the time of this levy, and Haines & Co. had an
interview with him in regard to it.
During the entire autumn and winter preceding these
transfers, Haines & Co. did not pay, except to Toof, Phillips & Co., more than $500 on all their debts; and in the
latter part of December, 1867, and the first part of January,
1868, some of the creditors sent agents to collect money from
them, but got none, because Haines & Co. had no funds to
pay them.
A witness, Frisbee, testified that he had assisted Mr.
Haines in making.up his balance-sheet "about the 1st of
January, 1868, and that the result was that their available
assets were not sufficient to pay their debts."
Another witness, an agent for an express company, testified that he received, about the last of December, 1867, or
January, 1868, notes from Toof, Phillips & Co. and another
firm against Haines & Co. for collection; that he presented
them' for payment to Haines & Co., and that they said they
could not pay them at that time. They did not pay them
to him. He knew something of the financial condition of
Haines & Co., and of their debt to Toof, Phillips & Co., and
of complaints of other parties, and something of their business through the country, and from all these facts he thought
it doubtful about their being able to pay their debts. This
was during the months of December, 1867, and January,
1868; and he wrote to Toof, Phillips & Co. that he thought
they had better look to their interests, as his conviction was
that it was doubtful about their being able to collect their

TOOp v. IMARTIN.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

debt from Haines & Co. Shortly after writing this letter
Mahan came round to look after the matter.
The property described in the title-bond assigned to
Mahan, which he stated that he purchased as an investment
on private account for $7000, was shown by the testimony
of Chetlain to have been worth only $4000, and by the testimony of a witness, Ilamblet, to have been worth only $3500,
and it was valued by the bankrupts in their schedules at
$4000. Both of the bankrupts testified that it was understood at the time the title-bond was assigned to Malian, that'
the amount of the two drafts given by him on Toof, Phillips & Co. for it, should be credited to Haines & Co. on their
indebtedness to that firm.
The schedules of the bankrupts annexed to their petition
showed that their debts at the time of their transfers to Toof,
Phillips & Co. exceeded $59,000, while their assets were
less than $32,000.
On the other hand there was sonic testimony to show that
some persons thought that they could get through, &c., &c.
The District Court decreed the conveyances void, and
that the title of the property be vested in the assignee, the
latter to refund the amount of the purchase-money advanced
by Mahan to obtain the deed of the land described in the
title-bond, less any rents and profits received by him or Toof,
Phillips & Co. from the property. This decree the Circuit
Court affirmed.
In commenting upon the answer of Toof, Phillips & Co.,
already mentioned, which, in reply to the interrogatory,
"whether at the time of the transfer to them the indebtedness of Haines & Co. was not greater than their ability,"
admitted that they did not believe Iaines & Co. "able to
pay their debts in money," the Circuit Court said:
"Here is a direct confession of a fact that in law constitutes
insolvency, and it is idle for the defendants to profess ignorance
of the insolvency of the bankrupts in face of such a confession.
If the bankrupts could not pay their debts in the ordinary course
of business, that is, in money, as they fell due, they were insolvent, and if the defendants did not know that this constituted

Dec.1871.]

TooF v.

MARTIN.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

insolvency within the meaning of the bankrupt act, it was because they were ignorant of the law."

But that court examined all the testimony, and in affirming the decree of the District Court rested the case upon it,
as well as upon this answer. From the decree of the Circuit Court, Toof, Phillips & Co. brought the case here.
lr. A. -.

Garland,for the plaintiffs in error:

1. Did the inability of Haines & Co. to pay their debts in
money, as they fell due, constitute "insolvency" within the
meaning of the bankrupt act, on their part? Now "insolvency" does not mean inability to pay in money. An insolvent is one who cannot pay, or who does not pay, his
debts, or whose debts cannot be collected out of his means
by legal process.* By the universal acceptation of the word
in this country and in England, if a party's available means,
which he can use in paying his debts, exceed those debts,
be has never been deemed insolvent.t If even there are
debts due which the party is unable to meet, yet if by arrangements made with his creditors, their promises to aid
him, his assets overbalancing his debts, his credit good, and
his prospects in business for the future encouraging, he still
goes on in his business, he is not insolvent.1
2. How does the case in this view stand on the evidence?
W-hen the witness, Frisbee, says that in December, 1867, he
aided in making up a balance-sheet, and he found laines
& Co. were not able to pay, he states a fact, which, if limited
to paying in money, we do not deny; but if he states that
their debts exceeded their property in value, he is not sustained by. the other witnesses. Other persons had confidence
that with extension the firm would get through. The answer of defendants states, in response to an inquiry on this
* 2 Burrill's Law Dictionary, title (Insolvent).

j James on Bankruptcy (notes to 35), p. 158-183; Avery & Hobbs,
Bankruptcy, 261, 289, 290; Burrill on Assignments, 38-41; Buckingham v.
McLean, 13 Howard, 151-167; Jones v. H6wland, 8 Metcalf, 377.
$ Potter v. Coggeshall, 4 Bankrupt Register, 19.

TooF v.

MIARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

point, that the assets of Haines & Co. were in excess of their
liabilities by $16,000.
3. Were these conveyances made with a view to give a
preference to appellants over the other creditors of Iaines &
Co.? To constitute a preference here, not only must Haines
& Co. have been insolvent, but Toof, Phillips & Co. must
have known them to be so, and must have intended to have
received, and actually have received a preference. Toof,
Phillips & Co. swear that Haines & Co. were not insolvent,
but on the contrary had a surplus. As for Haines & Co., it
is impossible to suppose that they supposed themselves insolvent.
Messrs. -Walkins and Bose, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill presents a case within the provisions of the first
clause of the thirty-fifth section of the bankrupt act. That
clause was intended to defeat preferences to a creditor, made
by a debtor when insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency. It declares that any payment or transfer of his
property made by him whilst in that condition, within four
months previous to the filing of his petition, with a view to
give a preference to a creditor, shall be void if the creditor
has at the time reasonable cause to believe him to be insolvent, and that the payment or transfer was made in fraud
of the provisions of the bankrupt act. And it authorizes
in such case the assignee to recover the property or its value
from the party who receives it.
Under this act it is incumbent on the complainant, in
order to maintain the decree in his favor, to show four
things:
1st. That at the time the conveyances to Toof, Phillips &
Co. and Maiahan were made the bankrupts were insolvent or
contemplated insolvency;
2d. That the conveyances were made with a view to give
a preference to these creditors;
3d. That the creditors had reasonable cause to believe the
bankrupts were insolvent at the time; and,

Dec.- 1871.]

1TooF v.

MARTIN.

Opinion of the court.

4th. That the conveyances were made in fraud of the
provisions of the bankrupt act.
1st. The counsel of the appellants have presented an
elaborate argument to show that inability to pay one's debts
at the time they fall due, in money, does not constitute insolvency, within the provisions of the bankrupt act. The argument is especially addressed to language used by the district judge when speaking of the statement of the appellants
in answer to one of the interrogatories of the bill, to the
effect that at the time the transfers were made they did not
believe the bankrupts were able to pay their debts in money,
but were able to do so on a fair market valuation of their
property and assets. The district judge held that this was a
direct confession of a fact which in law constitutes insolvency, and observed that "if the bankrupts could not pay
their debts in the ordinary course of business, that is, in
money, as they fell due, they were insolvent."
The rule thus laid down may not be strictly correct as applied to all bankrupts. The term insolvency is not always
used in the same sense. It is sometimes used to denote the
insufficiency of the entire property and assets of an individual
to pay his debts. This is its general and popular meaning.
But it is also used in a more restricted sense, to express the
inability of a party to pay his debts, as they become due in
the ordinary course of business. It is in this latter sense
that the term is used when traders and merchants are said
to be insolvent, and as applied to them it is the sense intended by the act of Congress. It was of the bankrupts as
traders that the district judge was speaking when he used
the language which is the subject of criticism by counsel.
With reference to other persons not engaged in trade or
commerce the term may perhaps have a less restricted
meaning.
The bankrupt act does not define what shall
constitute insolvency, or the evidence of insolvency, in every
case.
In the present case the bankrupts were insolvent in both
senses of the term at the time the conveyances in controversy were made. They did not then possess sufficient prop-

Toop v.

MAR

TIN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

erty, even upon their own estimation of its value as given in
their schedules, to pay their debts. These exceeded the
estimated value of the property by over twenty thousand
dollars. And for months previous the bankrupts bad failed
to meet their obligations as they matured. Creditors had
pressed for payment without success; their stock of goods
had been levied on, and their store closed by the sheriff
under an execution on a judgment against one of them. It
would serve no useful purpose to state in detail the evidence
contained in the record which relates to their condition. It
is enough to say that it abundantly establishes their hopeless
insolvency.
2d. That the conveyances to Toof, Phillips & Co. were
made with a view to give them a preference over other
creditors hardly admits of a doubt. The bankrupts knew at
the time their insolvent condition. A month previous they
had made up a balance sheet of their affairs which showed
that their assets were insufficient to pay their debts. They
h ad contemplated going into bankruptcy in December previous, and were then pressed by numerous creditors for payment. Their indebtedness at the time exceeded $50,000,
and except to Toof, Phillips & Co. they did not pay upon the
whole of it over $500 during the previous fall and winter.
M'aking a transfer of property to these creditors, under these
circumstances, was in fact giving them a preference, and it
must be presumed that the bankrupts intended this result at
the time. It is a general principle that every one must be
presumed to intend the necessary consequences of his acts.
The transfer, in any case, by a debtor, of a large portion of
his property, while he is insolvent, to one creditor, without
making provision for an equal distribution of its proceeds
to all his creditors, necessarily operates as a preference to
him, and must be taken as conclusive evidence that a preference was intended, unless the debtor can show that he
was at the time ignorant of his insolvency, and that his
affitirs were such that he could reasonably expect to pay all
his debts. The burden of proof is upon him in such case,
and not upon the assignee or contestant in bankruptcy.

Dec. 1871.]

TooF v.

MARTIN.

Opinion of the court.

No such proof was made or attempted in this case. But,
on the contrary, the evidence shows that the conveyances
were executed upon the expectation of the .bankrupts, and
upon the assurance of Toof, Phillips & Co., that in conse-:
quence of them they would continue to sell the bankrupts
goods on credit, as they had previously done; and that no
arrangement was made by the bankrupts with any other of
their creditors, either for payment or security, or for an extension of credit.
The fact that the title-bond was assigned, and the property for which it was given was conveyed to Mahan alone,.
and not to Toof, Phillips & Co., does not change the character of the transaction. Mahan was a member of that firm,
and the conveyance was made to him with the understanding
that the sum mentioned as its consideration should be credited on the indebtedness of the bankrupts to them. Both
of the bankrupts testified that such was the understanding
at the time. The pretence that Mahan bought the lots as
an investment on private account will not bear the slightest
examination. It is in proof that the lots at the time were
only worth $4000 at the outside, yet the consideration given
was nearly $7000. Toof Phillips & Co. might well have
been willing to credit this amount on their claim against insolvent traders in consideration of obtaining from them the
possession of property of much less value, but it is incredible
that an individual, seeking an investment of his money,
would be careless as to the difference between the actual
value of the property and the amount paid as a consideration for its transfer to him.
3d. From what has already been said it is manifest not
only that the bankrupts were insolvent when they made the
conveyances in controversy, but that the creditors, Toof,
Phillips & Co., had reasonable cause to believe that they were
insolvent. The statute, to defeat the conveyances, does not
require that the creditors should have had absolute knowledge on the point, nor even that they should, in fact, have
had any belief on the subject. It only requires that they
should have had reasonable cause to believe that such was
VOL. Xiii.

4

TOOF v.

MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the fact. And reasonable cause they must be considered to
have had when such a state of facts was brought to their
notice in respect to the affairs and pecuniary condition of
the bankrupts as would have led prudent business men to
the conclusion that they could not meet their obligations as
they matured in the ordinary course of business. That such
a state of facts was brought to the notice of the creditors is
Chetlain, one of the bankrupts, testifies
plainly shown.
that previous to the execution of the conveyances he had
several conversations with Mahan respecting their finances,
and told him the amount or near the amount of their indebtedness, and that they could not pay it. Mahan advised
them to get extensions, and said that he would help them
to get through. Chetlain also testifies that such was the
state of the finances of the bankrupts that on one occasion,
in conversation with Mahan, they offered to turn over to
him their entire assets if lie would assume their liabilities
and give them a receipt, and that he declined the offer.
It also appears in evidence that the levy by the sheriff
upon the stock of goods of the bankrupts, already mentioned, which was made in January, 1868, caused a temporary suspension of their business, and that Mahan was in
Augusta at the time and had an interview with the bankrupts on the subject of the levy.
It also appears that about the last of December, 1867, or
the first of January, 1868, Toof, Phillips & Co. sent notes of
the bankrupts which they held to an agent in Augusta for
collection. The agent presented the notes for payment to
the bankrupts and was told by them that they could not pay
the notes at that time. The agent then wrote to Toof, Phillips & Co. that they had better look to their interests, as his
conviction was that it was doubtful whether they would be
able to collect their debts. Shortly after this Mahan went
to Augusta to look after the matter, and whilst there the
conveyances in controversy were made.
It is impossible to doubt that 'Mahan ascertained, while
thus in Augusta, the actual condition of the affairs of the
bankrupts. The facts recited were sufficient to justify the

Dec. 1871.]

WHEELER V. HARRIS.
Statement of the case.

conclusion that they were insolvent, or at least furnished
reasonable cause for a belief that such was the fact.
4th. It only remains to add that the creditors, Toof, Phillips & Co., had also reasonable ground to believe that the
conveyances were made in fraud of the provisions of the
bankrupt act. This, indeed, follows necessarily from the
facts already stated. The act of Congress was designed to
secure an equal distribution of the property of an insolvent
debtor among his creditors, and any transfer made with a
view to secure the property, or any part of it, to one, and
thus prevent such equal distribution, is a transfer in fraud
of the act. That such was the effect of the conveyances in
this case, and that this effect was intended by both creditors
and bankrupts, does not admit, upon the evidence, of any
rational doubt. A clearer case of intended fraud upon the
act is not often presented.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY was absent from the court when
this case was submitted, and consequently took no part in
its decision.

WHEELER V. HARRIS.
1. On appeal to the Circuit Court from a decree in the District Court for the
payment of money, the Circuit Court affirmed the judgment of the District Court with costs to be taxed, from which affirmance the respondent
took an appeal here. After the appeal here, another decree was rendered by the Circuit Court, in which, after reciting the former decree
and taxation of costs, it was decreed in form that the appellee have
judgment against the appellant for the amount decreed, together with
costs, amounting to the sum of $5444.
2. On motion to dismiss this last appeal, on the. ground of a former one
pending in the same case: Held, that under the circumstances, the first
decree was not a final decree; and that it was the first appeal and not
the second which should be dismissed.
3. The court approves the practice of entering decrees in form before taking
appeals to this court.

THIS was a motion by Mr. Donokue to dismiss an appeal
from the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New

