608

PAIGE V. BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

served, or our government will inevitably drift from the
system established by our fathers into a vast centralized and
consolidated government.

PAIGE v. BANKS.
1. Where in consideration of an agreement by publishers to pay him a certain sum of money, and the performance of specified duties in connection with the publication, a reporter of judicial decisions agreed in 1828
"to furnish in manuscript the reports of his court for publication," with
an additional clause that the "publishers shall have the copyright of
said reports, to them and their assigns forever," held, on bill filed by
the reporter's executrix for injunction, and account of profits after the
expiration of twenty-eight years from the entry of copyright (A.D.
1830), that the publishers had a full right of property in the manuscript;
and accordingly that they could publish not only for the twenty-eight
years dring which the act of May 31st, 1790 (the only copyright act in
force when the agreement was made), gave an author and his assigns
the exclusive right to print, reprint, publish, and vend, but also during
the fourteen years granted by an act of 3d February, 1831, subsequently
passed, by which the exclusive right was continued to the author if alive,
or if dead to his widow, child, or children; the reporter not having died
till 1868.
2. Held, further, that this view was confirmed by the fact that a notice had
been given in 1858, by the reporter to his publishers, that he himself
claimed the right to publish on the expiration of the first twenty-eight
years, and forbid them to publish further, and that they in reply denied
his right and asserted their own, and that though the reporter lived, as
already said, till 1868, ten years after this correspondence, no further
notice was taken of this subject, and no attempt by the reporter, by act
or protest, to interfere -with the exercise of the right of the publishers
to publish and sell.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York; the ease being thus:

Congress by a copyright law of 31st May, 1790,* enacted
that the author and authors of any book or books, " and his
or their executors, administrators, or assigns," should have
* 1 Stat. at Large, 124.

Dec. 1871.]

D PAIGE v. BANKS.
Statement of the case.

the sole right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing,
and vending such book or books for the term of fourteen
years. And if, at the expiration of the said term the said
author or authors should be alive, that the same exclusive
right should be continued to him or them, "his or their
executors, administrators, or assigns, for the further term of
fourteen years."
With this law in force as governing the subject of copyrights, the late Mr. Alonzo Paige, of New York, reporter of
its Court of Chancery, entered, on the 7th of October, 1828,
into an agreement with Gould & Banks, law publishers of
that State, thus:
"That the said Alonzo during the term of five years from the
28th of April last, shall and will furnish the said Gould & Banks,
in manuscript, the reports of the said court for publication,and
that the said Gould & Banks shall have the copyright of said reports to them and their heirs and assignsforever.
"And the said Gould & Banks agree to and with the said
Alonzo, that they will publish said reports in royal octavo volumes of between 600 and 700 pages, on paper and type suitable
for such a work; that they will deliver to the said Alonzo twelve
copies free of expense; that they will sell said reports to the
members of the bar of New York at a sum not exceeding 86 per
volume, bound in calf,for each volume they shall so sell within
one year next subsequent to the publication of such volume.
"And the said Gould & Banks agree to pay to the said Alonzo
$1000 per volume for every volume they shall publish, and at
the same rate for less than a volume, within six months after
the publication of each volume.
"It is understood that the said Alonzo is to read and correct
the proof-sheets of said reports as the same are furnished him."
Mr. Paige did accordingly furnish to Gould & Banks the
manuscript of the volume known as 1st Paige's Chancery
Reports; and on the 5th of January, 1830, Gould & Banks
took out the copyright therefor in their own names.
On the 3d of February, 1831, that is to say, about two
years and a half after the date of the agreement letween
VOL. XIII.

39

"

[Sup. Ct.

PAIGE v. BANKS,

Statement of the case.

the parties, Congress amended the copyright law,* enlarging
the rights of copy. The new statute enacted:
"That whenever a copyright shall have been heretofore obtained by an author... of any book, &c., if such author.., be
living at the passage of this act, then such author ... shall continuo to have the same exclusive right to his book,... with the

benefit of each and all the provisions of this act for the security
thereof, for such additional period of time as will, together with
the time which shall have elapsed from the first entry of said
copyright, make up the term of twenty-eight years.
"That if at the expiration of the aforesaid term of years,
such author ...

be still living, and a citizen

. . .

of the United

States, or resident therein, or being dead, shall have left a widow,
or child, or children, either or all then living, the same exclusive
right shall be continued to such author; . . . or if dead, then to
such widow and child or children for the further term of fourteen
years."
The twenty-eight years of right given by the act of 1790,
expired on the 5th of January, 1858. Gould & Banks conceiving themselves to be entitled to renewal under the act
of 1831, on the 3d of October, 1857,'went through the usual
process to secure a copyright for the extended term. Mr.
Paige, on the 3d of January, 1858, conceiving that the extension enured to his benefit, did the same, and on the 13th following informed Gould & Banks that he had thus renewed
his copyright, and calling their attention to the fact, that by
this renewal "all right on their part to print, publish, or
vend volume first of his reports had ceased," and calling on
them "henceforth to refrain from printing, publishing, or
vending it." To this Gould & Banks, referring to the contract of October 7th, 1828, reply :
"First. Your manuscripts were furnished to us for publication
without limit as to time, and, therefore, whatever be your rights
under the law of 1831, we have an unlimited license to publish
and sell.
"In the second place, where the entire interest in the copy4 Stat. at Large, 439.

Dec. 1871.]

PAIGE V. BANKS.
Argument for the autbor.

right has been assigned, we consider the provisions of the act
of 1831 to have been intended to enure to the benefit of the assignee."
They accordingly notify to Mr. Paige that they shall themselves take out all of the renewals of the copyright, "and
hold him liable for all damages consequent on any infringement of their rights."
Things remained in this state till March 31st, 1868, when
Mr. Paige died; and in about ten months afterwards, and
after some correspondence with a view to amicable adjustment, his executors filed a bill for injunction against further
printing and vending, and for an account of profits after
January, 1858.
The court below (Blatchford, J.) dismissed the bill,* and
the executors of Mr. Paige appealed to this court.
Messrs. Clarkson Nott Poller and W. V. Campbell, for the
appellants:
The intention of the parties, to be collected from the
whole agreement, was simply to convey the copyright,
though it may be admitted for the sake of argument that the
agreement contains provisions sufficient to create a license
if the copyright had not been specifically conveyed. Now,
this thing called "copyright" is, so far as the law recognizes
it, or so far as it is a matter of practical value and of sale,
a creature of statute. A man has no more "copyright"
than what the statute gives him. When this agreement was
made Mr. Paige had the exclusive right in himself and in his
assigns to print, publish, and sell, at the longest for a term of
twenty-eight years; and no greater or additional right. That
assuredly is what he meant to sell, and all that he meant to
sell. Now a new statute-bne not dreamt of by any one in
1828-gives to Mr. Paige subsequently a new and different
sort of right. How can it be said that Mr. Paige meant to
assign that when he assigned the other? There are no words
in his agreement such as "whatever -copyright he may here* 7 Blatchford, 154.

PAIGE

v.

BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the author.

after have granted to him ;" by which it might be inferred
that he meant to part with more property than he had; an
inference not to be made easily in any case. Questions have
arisen often in the kindred case of patents, how far a grant
of a patent right carried a subsequent extension of it. In
Wilson v. Rousseau,* a covenant by the patentee prior to the
patent act of 1836, which authorized extensions, that the
covenantee should have the benefit of any improvement in
the machinery, or alteration or renewal of the patent, was
held not to exclude an extension by an administrator under
that act; and this court was not unanimous in holding that
an extension passed even in such a case as Railroad Company
v. Trim ble,t where a patentee conveyed all the right, title,
and interest which he had in the "same invention," as secured to him by letters-patent, and also all " the right, title,
and interest which may be secured to him from time to time,
the same to be held by the assignee for his own use and for
that of his legal representatives, "to the full end of the term
for which said letters are olt may be granted."
2. The copyright act of 1790 gives the right to the author
and to his assigns. The act of 1831 which created this new
term, gives it specifically to the author if living, to his
family if he is dead. Assignees are not mentioned in it, nor
provided for. It looks much as if Congress in this case had
meant specially to take care of men of literary genius; often
as we know not men of business, and, therefore, subject to
be hardly dealt with by the trade. A book is rarely much
demanded after it has been published twenty-eight years.
Some books, the works of men of high genius, are as much
so or more than ever. The provision seems specially to have
been for the authors of them; and for their families; just
as Congress by various acts provides for our soldiers, our
occupants of bounty lands, making very liberal provision for
them and for their families, but declaring th'at their vendees
shall take nothing. Mr. G. T. Curtis, in his work on Copyright,J questions whether the author by any assignment
* I Howard, 682.

t10 -Wallace, 367.

$ Page 235.

Dec. 1871.]

PAIGE v. BANKS.
Argument for the author.

could dispose of the contingent interest given by the act of
1831, so as to deprive his widow and children of the right in
case of his death. A similar provision in the patent law has
been construed by this court against the right.*
We have the benefit of the views on the circuit by Mr.
Justice Nelson, in the case of. Cowen v. Banks,t in support of the position which we take. There the reporter
Cowen had assigned in 1823 to this same house of Gould &
Banks, the copyright of his reports by an instrument like
the present one.1 He lived till 1844, that is to say, three
years after the expiration of his first term of copyright.
The executrix of the reporter after his death claiming the
fourteen years of the extended term of twenty-eight years,
given by statute of 1790, to authors or their assigns, filed a
bill for injunction and account. His honor, Judge Nelson,
after careful consideration, decided in her favor. It is true
indeed that he decreed ultimately infavor of the publishers,
on a cross action brought by them to amend the agreement,
so as to convey all the interest of Mr. Gowen in the extended
term. On the hearing of that cross-bill a deposition of Mr.
Cowen given in a prior suit brought by the publishers against
one Hastings, as a violator of the copyright, was read in
evidence. In this deposition Mr. Cowen testified "that it
was his intention, by the agreement, to convey his whole interest in
the copyright of the work," and he added: "I supposed the
book to belong to my assignees, as soon as made, including
all that was in it. I would not have taken the office of reporter, with its salaries and duties, unless I was to have a
proprietary ight which I could use or dispose of." The
present case is much stronger than that of Mr. Cowen, for
the term claimed by his representatives, was the second
term granted by the statute of 1790, in case the author lived
through the first fourteen years; a term grantable under the
statute to assigns; while what we have claimed is the ex* Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 Howard, 646; Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 Id. 539.

- 24 Howard's Practice Cases, 72.
J A copy of the instrument was shown to the court from the judgment
roll of the case.

PAIGE v. BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tension granted by the statute of 1831, an extension conferred on the author and his family, and where the rights of
assigns seem to have been carefully excluded.
MIIessrs. Joseph Laroque and B. B. Anderson, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS deli%;ered the opinion of the court.
The whole controversy turns upon the true interpretation
of the agreement made on the 7th October, 1828.
Independent of any statutory provision the right of an
author in and to his unpublished manuscripts is full and
complete. It is his property, and, like any other property,
is subject to his disposal. He may assign a qualified interest
in it, or make an absolute conveyance of the whole interest.
The question to be solved is, do the terms of this agreement show the intent to part with the whole interest in the
publication of this book, or with a partial and limited interest?
The agreement on the one side is "to furnish, in manuscript, the reports of said court for publication," with an additional clause that the publishers "shall have the copyright
of said reports to them and their assigns forever." The
cause or consideration of this agreement is a stipulation by
the other side for a certain sum of money, and the performance of certain duties in connection with the publication.
It is insisted by the appellants that a just interpretation
confines the agreement to a mere assignment of the interest
in such copyright, as is provided for in the act of 31st May,
1790; that this was the law in force when the contract was
entered into; that the fourteen years therein provided for,
with the right to a prolongation of fourteen years more, is
all that the publishers, at most, are entitled to, and that they
are excluded necessarily from the benefit of the provisions
conferred by the act of the 3d February, 1831, granting to
authors an additional extension of fourteen years.
In our view this is too narrow a construction. The fair
and just interpretation of the terms of the agreement indicate unmistakably that the author of the manuscript, in

Dec. 1871.]

PAIGE v.

BANiKs.

Opinion of the court.

agreeing to deliver it for publication at a stipulated compensation, intended to vest in the publishers a full right of property thereto.
The manuscript is delivered under the terms of the agreement "for publication." NSo length of time is assigned to
the exercise of this right, nor is the right to publish limited
to any number of copies. The consideration is a fixed sum
of $1000. Whether one or one hundred thousand copies
were published the author was entitled to receive, and the
publishers bound to pay, this precise amount.
As betweeu the parties to the agreement the absolute interest was conveyed by the stipulation of Paige, that he
would furnish the manuscript for publication. Paige could
no longer do any act after such delivery for publication inconsistent with the absolute ownership of the publishers.
But it was proper, for the protection of the publishers, that
they should be in position to assert the remedies given by
the law against intruders, and it is to this end it is added in
the agreement, "and the said Gould & Banks shall have the
copyright of said reports to them, their heirs, and assigns.
forever." It is not covenanted that the publishers should,
take out the copyright, nor is there any express agreement
for an assignment to them by Paige, if he should take it out.
Undoubtedly the provision, that the publishers "should have
the copyright," would authorize them to apply for it, and if
Paige had taken it out in his own name it would have enured
to their benefit. But, as between Paige and the publishers,
the rights of the latter could not be estimated differently,
whether they had or had not availed themselves of the provisions of the act.
We have been referred to the case of Cowen v. Banks, in
which Mr. Justice Nelson, on a similar agreement, expressed
the opinion that the construction now contended for by the
appellants was the true one. No reason is assigned by the
judge for his opinion, and the case was such that it was not
necessary that this point should be maturely considered.'
The practical construction by Judge Cowen of his own contract, in opposition to his interest, is cited in the decision to.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

which we are now referring, together with the fact that the
judge died in 1844, three years after the expiration of the
first term of the copyright. On this it is said, with some
emphasis,* "that he had all this time acquiesced in the claim
of the assignee." The decree was that the contract be reformed accordingly.
In the case now before us the construction contended for
by the appellants was, for the first time, urged by letter of
Mr. Paige, 18th January, 1858, addressed to the appellees,
who replied oil 3d February following, asserting their absolute right of ownership, with an unlimited license to publish
and sell. The parties lived together after this in the same
State until 31st March, 1868, when Paige died, a period of
ten years, during which no further notice was ever taken of
this subject, and no attempt by Paige, by act or protest, to
interfere with the exercise of the right of the appellees to
publish and sell. It is difficult to account for this long acquiescence upon any assumption that Paige, after the receipt
of the reply to the publishers, had faith in the construction
now urged. If this agreement needed any extraneous aid
to indicate the intention of the parties, this acquiescence
would certainly be persuasive of the view we have taken of it.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. BAILEY.
Although equity have power to order the delivery up and cancellation of a
policy of insurance obtained on fraudulent representations and suppressions of facts, yet it will not generally do so, when these representations
and suppressions can be perfectly well used as a defence at law in a suit
upon the policy. Hence a bill for such a delivery up and cancellation
was held properly "dismissed, without prejudice," though the evidences
of the fraud were considerable, there being no allegation that the holder
of the policy meant to assign it; and suit on the policy having after the
bill was filed been begun at law.

from the Supreme Court of the District.
The Phicnix Mutual Life Insurance Company filed a bill
APPEAL

* 24 Howard's Practice Cases, 72.

