Dec. 1871.]

PENDLETON COUNTY V.

AMY.

Syllabus.

The object of Congress was attained when the pre-emptor
went, with clean hands, to the land office and proved up his
right, and paid the government for his land. 'Restriction
upon the power of alienation after this would injure the
pre-emptor, and could serve no important purpose of public
policy. It is well known that patents do not issue in the
usual course of business in the General Land Office until
several years after the certificate of entry is given, and
equally well known that nearly all the valuable lands in the
new States, admitted since 1841, have been taken up under
the pre-emption laws, and the right to sell them freely exercised after the claim was proved up, the land paid for, and
the certificate of entry received. In view of these facts we
cannot suppose, in the absence of an express declaration to
that effect, that Congress intended to tie up these lands in
the hands of the original owners, until the government
should choose to issue the patent.
If it had been the purpose of Congress to attain the object
contended for, it would have declared the lands themselves
unalienable until the patent was granted. Instead of this,
the legislation was directed against the assignment or transfer of the right secured by the act, which was the right of
pre-emption, leaving the pre-emptor free to sell his land
after the entry, if at that time he was, in good faith, the
owner of the land, and had done nothing inconsistent with
the provisions of the law on the subject.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PENDLETON COUNTY v.

AmY.

1. On suit upon the coupons of railroad bonds payable, both bonds and
coupons, by their terms, to the bearer-the declaration alleging the
plaintiff to be owner, holder, and bearer of the coupons-a plea that the
plaintiff was not, either at the time when the declaration or when the
plea was filed, the owner, holder, or bearer, is a traverse of a material
allegation of the declaration, and though faulty as argumentative, must,
on general demurrer, be held good.

298

PENDLETON COUNTY v. AmY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. So, on like sort of demurrer, a plea, that at the times named, the bonds
and coupons were all the property of one A. R., a citizen of K. (the
same State of which the defendant was a citizen), and not of any other
person.
3. So, on like sort of demurrer, when the declaration alleged that the coupons sued on were for interest on bonds that had been issued by a
county and delivered by it to a certain railroad company in payment
by the county of a subscription to stock of the road under an authority given by acts of the legislature, a plea that the county did not
sign, seal, or deliver the bonds and coupons to the company as in the
declaration alleged, and "so that the alleged acts and coupons are not
its acts and deeds."
4. A county issuing bonds to a railroad company in payment of stock in
the road, which subscription the county was authorized by legislative
enactment to make and to pay for by the issue of the bonds, only after
certain things directed had been performed, may be estopped against
asserting that the conditions attached to a grant of the power were not
fulfilled. Where the issue of the bonds without such previous fulfilment would be a misdemeanor, by the county officers, it is to be presumed, though perhaps not conclusively, that the conditions were fulfilled. And an estoppel would take place where the county had received
the proper amount of stock for which the bonds were issued; had held
it for seventeen years, and was actually enjoying it at the time when
pleading want of authority to subscribe.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky.
Amy brought suit in April, 1869, against the county of
Pendleton, in Kentucky, to recover the aggregate amount
of certain coupons or interest warrants attached to fifty
bonds of $1000 each. The bonds were dated October 15th,
1853, payable thirty years after date, and were alleged in
the declaration to have been made and issued by the county
of Pendleton in virtue of authority conferred by the legislature of the State. The declaration averred the execution
ERROR

of the bonds with interest warrants attached to each, pay-

able to the bearer semiannually on the 15th days of April
and October of every year, and also that they had been de-

livered to the Covington and Lexington Railroad Company
in payment of a subscription made by the county to the
capital stock of the company, under authority given by acts
of the legislature. It further averred that the bonds were
received by the railroad company, and that a certificatefor the
shares of stock subscribed, ais aforesaid, was issued to the countly,

Dec. 1871.]

PENDLETON COUNTY

v. Amy.

Statement of the case.

and was received by it, and that it was still owned by the county;
and further, that the bonds were afterwards sold by the railroad company for $50,000, and delivered to the purchasers
with the coupons attached; that the plaintiff subsequently
became the owner, holder, and bearer of them all, and that
from the 15th day of October, 1864, inclusive, until the commencement of the suit the county had neglected and refused
to pay the coupons, though often requested to-pay them.
To the cause of action thus set forth the defendant pleaded
four pleas:
1st. That the plaintiff was not, at the time of filing his
declaration, or at the time of entering the plea, the owner,
holder, or bearer of the said alleged bonds and coupons, or
of any or either of them, as in the declaration mentioned.
2d. That at the time of filing the declaration and plea the
bonds and coupons were all the property of one Augustus
Robins, a citizen of the State of Kentucky, and not then or
now the property of any other person.
3d. That although the legislature, by one act, empowered
the county to subscribe to the stock of the company, and to
borrow money to pay.the subscription, yet the authority was
coupled with a proviso that the real estate holders residing
in the county should so vote, by a majority, at such times as
the county court might appoint, and that "the question of
subscribing stock, or of borrowing money to pay the same,
never was submitted to the real estate holders residing in
the county of Pendleton, to be determined by vote of a majority of them, as authorized and required by the act, before
any stock had been subscribed by or for said county, or any
money borrowed to pay the same." The plea then averred
that subsequent acts of the legislature (enacted before the
subscription was made) which authorized the levy of a tax
for the purpose of paying the subscriptions to the stock of
the said company, also provided that before a subscription
should be made and a tax levied, the question of levying the
tax should be submitted to the voters of the county, and if
a majority of the votes cast should be in favor of the tax, it
should be levied, and the subscription should be made; and

PENDLETON COUNTY v. Amy.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the county.

the plea denied that the question whether the tax or the subscription authorized by these acts, or whether any tax for
payment of a subscription of stock in said company should
be imposed in the county, had ever been submitted to, or
voted upon, by the voters of Pendleton County in conformity
with said acts. The plea further averred that no other acts
of the legislature authorized the county, or any one for it,
to subscribe stock for it in said company, or to levy a tax
for payment, or to borrow money, or to issue bonds and
coupons for the payment of any subscriptions of stock
therein.
4th. That the county did not sign, seal, or deliver the
bonds and coupons to the railroad company, or to any person or corporation, as in the declaration alleged, nor authorize any one to do so; "and so the dcfndant says that the
alleged acts and coupons are not its acts and deeds."
To all these pleas there were general demurrers; and these
demurrers being sustained and judgment given for the plaintiff, the county brought the case here.
Mr. B. I. Bristow, for the plaintiff in error:
1. The first plea shows that Amy was not at any time the
owner, holder, or bearer of any of the bonds or coupons.
If he was not, he had no right to sue. He might have made
out a primdfacie case by producing the bonds and coupons;
but it was not impossible for the county to overturn the
primn facie case, and the opportunity ought to have been
allowed on a trial of the issue.
2. The second plea showed that a citizen of Kentucky
was the oxner, which the county of Pendleton was ready to
verify. This plea ought to have been denied by Amy, because, if the plea was true, he had io right to sue.
3. The third plea, though containing some formal defects,
constituted nevertheless a good defence; for, admitting the
facts alleged in it to be true, it showed an entire want of
authority in the County Court to issue the bonds and coupons, and consequently the absence of liability to pay. The
authority of the County Court to borrow money, as is ap-

Dec. 1871.]

PENDLETON COUNTY v. AMY.
Argument for the bondholder.

parent from the matter pleaded, depended on a condition
precedent, to wit, that the question of subscribing to the
stock and of levying a tax had been submitted to the voters
of the county for their determination. Now, the plea avers,
and the demurrer admits, that the question of subscribing,
&c., was never submitted to a vote. So that the fact established by the pleadings is, not the irregular execution of a
power already possessed, but the non-existence of the power
itself.
4. The fourth plea is a special plea amounting to the general issue, and though bad in form is good in substance.
Mr. J. W. Stevenson, contra:
1 and 2. By the first and second pleas, that which is mere
matter in abatement is relied on in bar. The pleas do not
dispute the making and delivery of the bonds and coupons,

or that they are binding upon the county, or that they are
due or unpaid, or that a cause of action exists against the
county on them, but simply asserts 'that the action is not
brought in the name of the proper party.
Both pleas tender issues upon non-issuable points. The
declaration sets forth that the bonds and coupons were payable to the bearer. The pleas do not dispute this. Therefore the bearer has the right to sue. The bonds and coupons
being specialties, the proper method of trying the question
whether the plaintiff was the bearer or not was to crave oyer.
This would have settled the question by requiring the plaintiff to produce them to the view of the court and of the defendant. If it is said no profert was made, then the proper
course was to demur for want of profert.*
The second plea is bad, for the further reason that it
simply sets forth that the coupons are the property of one
Robins; whereas the undertaking as set forth in the declaration was to pay the bearer of the coupons, and not the
person in whom the right of property might be vested. It
does not deny that the plaintiff is the bearer of them, or
assert that his holding is tortious.
* Stephens on Pleading,'69, 405.

PENDLETON COUNTY v.

AMY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bondholder.

3. The third plea sets forth matter that is immaterial to
the case made by the declaration. The declaration sets forth
that the defendant made the fifty bonds, that by the terms
of each bond it agreed to pay the bearer $1000, with interest payable semiannually, for which coupons payable to
bearer were attached; that it, in fact, subscribed $50,000 to
the capital stock of this railroad company, and tendered
these bonds in payment of it, and they were received in full
payment of the subscription, and that the company immediately sold the bonds for $50,000, which it used in constructing the road, and that the plaintiff has since become
the owner and bearer of them.
The plea does not traverse any one of the facts set out in
the declaration. Nor does it set forth any case that amounts
to an avoidance of them. The county admits that it made
the bonds, sold them, and got the money for them. As
against an innocent holder for value it is estopped to say that
it did this without authority.*
4. The fourth plea is an awkward attempt at non esifactumr.
What it sets out does not amount to the plea of non cstfacturn.
The gist of such a plea is the direct and positive averment
that the instrument sued on is not the party's deed. And
this positive and direct averment must be supported by the
oath of the party. Now this plea, in order to ease the conscience of the required oath, goes on to say that the county
did not do certain things, nor did the county authorize certain individuals to do those things, and then by way of argument and inference concludes, "and so the said defendant
says that the said alleged acts and coupons are not its acts
and deeds."
The plea is bad on other grounds. It purports to be a
special plea of non est facbm. Such a plea must traverse
some fact set out in the declaration which is essential to
make the instrument the deed of the defendant. The substance of the plea is that the county did not sign nor seal
the instruments, nor did it authorize others to do so for it.
* Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wallace, 654; Mercer v. Hacket, 1 Id. 83;
Bronson v. La Crosse, 2 Id. 283.

Dec.1871.]

PENDLETON COUNTY

v. AMY.

Opinion of the court.

This is pleading a mere conclusion of law. If the facts set
forth in the declaration are true, these bonds and coupons
were sealed and delivered by the county. The facts, as specifically set forth in the declaration, are not traversed by the
plea. Admitting those facts to be true, the defendant merely
puts in its conclusion that it did not execute the bonds and
coupons, or authorize it to be done.
Reply: It is said that the third plea is good because it
shows an estoppel. But where this doctrine has been applied in actions against municipal corporations, either the
instruments imported on their face a compliance with the
law conferring the power to issue them, or there appeared
subsequent acts on the part of the proper authorities amounting to a ratification; and even then the estoppel has been
allowed only in favor of bonl fide owners for value; not in
favor of mere holders.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It must be admitted that the pleas interposed by the defendant in the court below were inartistically framed; that
they were argumentative, and that they set up nothing which
could not have been taken advantage of, for what it was
worth, under the general issue. They might have been
stricken from the record on motion, or, if special demurrers
were allowable in that circuit, they would have been condemned, had the plaintiff so demurred. But the demurrers
were general, and the question before us is whether any of
the pleas set up a substantial defence to the action.
Now, in regard to the first plea, while it is true that the
defence which it sets up was only inferentially an answer to
the plaintiff's complaint, and while it might as well have
been set up under the general issue, it was nevertheless a
traverse of a material averment of the declaration. The
coupons were made payable to bearer, but if the plaintiff was
neither the owner, nor the holder, nor the bearer, they were
not promises to pay him, and the county was not indebted
to him. Hence it was material to his case to aver, as he did,

PENDLETON COUNTY V. AMY.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that he was the bearer, and the plea took issue with this
averment. It denied the title of the plaintiff, or his right of
action, and, though faulty in form, in substance it amounted
to a defence. It was, therefore, error to overrule it upon a
general demurrer.
Similar observations might be made respecting the demurrers to the second and fourth pleas.
The third plea was in effect a denial of any legislative
authority to the county to subscribe to the stock of the railroad company, -and to issue bonds for the payment of such
subscription. The general demurrer to it raises the question whether it presented a substantial defence to the action.
It is to be noticed at the outset that the plea concedes
legislative authority to the countsy to make a subscription,
and to issue bonds in payment, though the exercise of the
authority was required to be preceded by a popular vote.
It concedes that the bonds were in fact made and issued.
We say it concedes this, because such making and issue are
alleged in the declaration, and the plea does not traverse
the allegation. It concedes that the subscription was made;
that the bonds were delivered to the company in payment;
that they were sold for $50,000; that the plaintiff subsequently became the owner, and hence that he stands in the
position of a purchaser for value; and it concedes that the
county obtained for the bonds a certificate of stock in the
railroad company, which it now holds.
Without legislative authority a municipal corporation,
like a county, may not subscribe to the capital stock of a
railroad company, and bind itself to pay its subscription, or
issue its bonds in payment; and if it does, the purchase of
such bonds is affected by the want of authority to make
them. But it does not follow from this that when the legislature has given its sanction to the issue of bonds, provided
that before their issue certain things shall be done by the
officers, or the people of the county, the bonds can always
be avoided in the hands of an innocent purchaser by proof
that the county officers, or the people, have not done, or
have insufficiently done, the things which the legislature re-

Dec. 1871.]

BENDLETON COUNTY V. AmY.
Opinion of the court.

quired to be done before,the authority to subscribe, or to
issue bonds, should be exercised. A purchaser is not always
bound to look farther than to discover that the power has
been conferred, even though it be coupled with conditions
precedent. If the right to subscribe be made dependent
upon the result of a popular vote, the officers of the county
must first determine whether the vote has been taken as
directed by law and what the vote was. When, therefore,
they make a subscription, and issue county bonds in payment, it may fairly be presumed, in favor 'of an innocent
purchaser of the bonds, that the condition which the law
attached to the exercise of the power has been fulfilled. To
issue the bonds without the fulfilment of the precedent
conditions would be a misdemeanor, and it is to be presumed that public officers act rightly. We do not say this
is a conclusive presumption in all cases, but it has more
than once been decided that a county may be estopped
against asserting that the conditions attached to a grant of
power were not fulfilled.* The estoppel in these cases was
either by recitals -in the bonds that the conditions precedent
had been complied with, or by the fact that the county had
subsequently levied taxes to pay interest on the bonds. In
the present case it does not appear in the pleadings whether
or not the bonds contained any such recitals, nor whether
the officers of the county have levied taxes to, pay interest
on them, or whether any interest has been paid. These
grounds of estoppel do not exist. But if such acts and such
recitals are sufficient to protect bondfide purchasers-against
an attempt to set up noncompliance with the conditions
attached to the grant of power to issue the bonds, it is not
easy to see why the pleadings do not show an estoppel in
this case. The county received in exchange for the bonds
a certificate for the stock of the 'ailroad company, which it
held about seventeen years before tlie present suit was
* Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall et al., 21 Howard, 539'
Bissell v. City of Jeffersonville, 24 Id. 287; Moran v. Commissioners, 2
Black, 722; Meyer v. Muscatine, 1 Wallace, 384; Van Hostrup v. Madison.
City, 1 Id. 291; Supervisors v. Schenck, 5,Id. 772.
VOL. XIII.
20.

WILLIAMS V.

]KIRTLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

brought, and which it still holds. Having exchanged the
bonds for the stock, can it retain the proceeds of the exchange, and assert against a purchaser of the bonds for
value that though the legislature empowered it to make
them, and put them upon the market, upon certain conditions, they were issued is disregard of the conditions?
We think they cannot, and, therefore, that the third plea
cannot be sustained.
But for the reasons given above the case must be sent
back for another trial; when, doubtless, the pleadings will
be changed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause

REMITTED FOP. FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, with MILLER and FIELD, JJ.,
concurred in a judgment of reversal, but said that they
did not assent to all the views expressed in the preceding
opinion.

WILLIAMS V. ]KIRTLAND.
1. A tax deed executed by a county auditor under a statute of Minnesota of
1866, declaring that where lands sold for taxes were not redeemed within
the time allowed by law, such deed should be primd facie evidence of a
good and valid title in the grantee, his heirs, and assigns, did not dispense -with the performance of all the requirements prescribed by law
for the sale -of the land. It only shifted the burden of proof of such
performance from the party claiming under the deed to the party attacking it.
2. The construction of a State law upon a question affecting the titles to real
property in the State by its highest court, is binding upon the Federal
courts.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota.
This was an action of ejectment for the possession of certain real property, situated in the city of St. Paul, in the
State of Minnesota. The declaration was in the form usual
ERROR

