Ex

[Sup. Ct.

PAlaTE MNIEL.[Sp.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

ceeding from the insured, be regarded as the act of the insurers."*
The modern decisions fully sustain this proposition, and
they seem to us founded in reason and justice, and meet our
entire approval. This principle does not admit oral testimony to vary or contradict that which is in writing, but it
goes upon the idea that the writing offered in evidence was
not the instrument of the party whose name is signed to it;
that it was procured under such circumstances by the other
side as estops that side from using it or relying on its contents; not that it may be contradicted by oral testimony,
but that it may be shown by such testimony that it cannot
be lawfully used against the party whose name is signed
to it.

JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

Ex PARTE MChNEI,.
1. The statutes of the several States regulating the subject of pilotage are,
in view of the numerous acts of Congress recognizing and adopting

them, to be regarded as constitutionally made, until Congress by its
own acts supersedes them. Cooley v. The Board of Wardens of the City
of Philadelphia(12 Howard, 312), affirmed.

2. The sum of money given by statute as half-pilotage, to a pilot who first
tenders his services to a vessel coming into port and is refused, is not a

"penalty,"

but is a compensation under implied contract.

3. Although a State statute cannot confer jurisdiction on a Federal court, it

may yet give a right, to which, other things allowing, such a court may
give effect.

SUR petition for a writ of prohibition to the judge of the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of New York.
Mr. Donohue, in support of the petition; H1r. F. A. Wilcox,.
contra.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.

Alexander Banter filed his libel in the District Court
* Rowley v. Empire Ins. Co., 36 New York, 550.

Dec. 1871.]

EX

PARTE McINiEL.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

above named against the owners of the bark Maggie McNiel,
wherein it was set forth that the libellant was a pilot of the
port of New York, duly licensed under the laws of the State
of New York, to pilot vessels by way of iHfellgate, and that
the respondents were the owners of the bark; that on the
27th day of February, 1870, the libellant, at a point on Long
Island Sound, tendered his services and offered to the master of the bark to pilot her by way of Hellgate to the port
of NTew York, and notwithstanding that the libellant was
the first pilot so offering his services they were refused;
that the bark was a registered vessel foreign to the port of
New York, and drew more than thirteen feet of water, so
that there became due to the libellant by reason of the
premises the sum of twenty-three dollars; that payment
has been demanded and refused, and that the premises are
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States and of the court to which the libel was addressed.
Process was issued according to the prayer of the libel,
and the respondents not being found the vessel was attached.
Alexander McTiel intervened as claimant and answered the
libel. The answer denies that the action is founded upon a
contract civil and maritime. It admits that the bark was
sailing under a register, and alleges that she was towed
through Hellgate by a steam-tug, which had on board a
duly licensed pilot, and that the master of the bark paid for
the service. It insists that the cause of action set forth in
the libel is not enforceable by the District Court and not
within its jurisdiction. Testimony was taken, the cause
proceeded to hearing, and the court gave judgment for the
amount claimed by the libellant. The respondent applies
for a writ of prohibition to restrain the District Court from
enforcing the judgment.
The grounds relied upon are:
(1) That the District Court has no jurisdiction of the cause
of action stated in the libel.
(2) That no lien existed on the vessel enforceable in a court
of admiralty.
The statute of the State upon which the libel was founded

EX PARTE

MONIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is entitled "An act concerning the Pilots of the Channel of
the East River, commonly called Hellgate, passed April
15th, 1847, as amended March 12th, 1860, March 14th, 1865,
April 16th, 1868, and April 5th, 1871." It is a carefully
digested system of regulations, covering the whole subject
of pilotage, and was designed to secure the appointment of
qualified persons and to insure as far as possible the fiithful
performance of their duties. All appointments are required
to be made upon the recommendation of the board of wardens of the port of New York to the governor, the nomination by him to the Senate of the State of the persons so
recommended, and their confirmation by that body. Apprentices are required to serve three years, to be examined
twice during the last year by the board of wardens, and to
serve two years afterwards as deputies before they can be
appointed pilots. The seventh section of the act provides
that a pilot who shall first tender his services may demand
from the master of any vessel of one hundred tons burden
and upwards, navigating Hellgate, to whom the tender was
made and by whom it was refused, half-pilotage, the amount
to be ascertained according to the rules prescribed by the
act. Certain exceptions are made which do not affect this
case and which it is therefore not necessary to consider.
It is not denied that the case made by the libel is within
the statute, nor that it was established by the testimony, but
it is insisted tltat the statute is in conflict with the power of
Congress to regulate commerce, and is therefore void.
It must be admitted that pilot regulations are regulations
of commerce. A pilot is as much a part of the commercial
marine as the hull of the ship and the helm by which it is
guided; and half-pilotage, as it is called, is a necessary and
usual part of every system of such provisions. Pilots are a
meritorious class, and the service in which they are engaged
is one of great importance to the public. It is frequently
full of hardship, and sometimes of peril; night and day, in
winter and summer, in tempest and calm, they must be
present at their proper places and ready to perform the

Dec. 1871.]

Ex PARTE MC1iEL.
Opinion of the court.

duties of their vocation. They are thus shut out for the
time being from more lucrative pursuits and confined to a
single field of employment.
It is not complained anywhere, so far as we are advised,
that the sum of what is allowed them is oppressive, or that
including half-pilotage, it is more than sufficient to secure
the services of persons of proper qualifications and to give
them a reasonable compensatiofi.
There is nothing new in provisions of the same character

with the one here under consideration. They have obtained
from an early period and are to be found in the laws of most
commercial states. The obligation on the captain to take a
pilot, or be responsible for the damages that might ensue,
was prescribed in the Roman Law.* The Hanseatic ordinances, about 1457, required the captain to take a pilot under
the penalty of a mark of gold. The maritime law of Sweden, about 1500, imposed a penalty for refusing a pilot of
150 thalers, one-third to go to the informer, one third to the
pilot who offered, and the residue to poor mariners. By the
maritime code of the Pays Bas the captain was required to
take a pilot under a penalty of 50 reals, and to be responsible for any less to the vessel. By the maritime law of
France, ordinance of Louis the XIV, 1681, corporal pun ishment was imposed for refusing to take a pilot, and the vessel
was to pay 50 livres, to be applied to the use of the marine
hospital and to repair damages from stranding. In England
(3 George I, ch. 13), if a vessel were piloted by any but a
licensed pilot, a penalty of ยฃ20 was to be collected for the
use of superannuated pilots, or the widows of pilots. In the
United States, provisions, more or less stringent, requiring
the payment of a sum when no pilot is taken, are to be
found in the statutes of ten of the States. The earliest of
these statutes is that of Massachusetts of 1783, and the latest,
to which our attention has been called, the statute of New
York here under consideration.
* Digest, Book 19, tit. 2, Edict of Ulpian, 1, 110; in the Laws of Oleron,
I, 232; in the Consulate de Mer, II, 250; and in the Maritime Law of
Denmark, III, 262 (Pardessus).

Ex PARTE McNiEL.Su

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But, conceding that this provision is a regulation of commerce and within the power of Congress upon that subject,
it by no means follows that it involves the constitutional
conflict insisted upon by the counsel for the petitioner. In
the complex system of polity which prevails in this country
the powers of government may be divided into four classes.
Those which belong exclusively to the States.
Those which belong exclusively to the National government.
Those which may be exercised concurrently and independently by both.
Those which may be exercised by the States, but only
untit Congress shall see fit to act upon the subject. The
authority of the State then retires and lies in abeyance until
the occasion for its exercise shall recur.
The commercial power lodged by the Constitution in Congress is, in part, of this character. Some of the rules prescribed in the exercise of that power must, from the nature
of things, be uniform throughout the country. To that extent the power itself must, necessarily, be exclusive; as
much so as if it had been so declared to be, by the organic
law, in express terms. Others may well vary with the varying circumstances of different localities. In the latter contingency the States may prescribe the rules to be observed
until Congress shall supersede them ; the Constitution and
laws of the United States in such case, as in all others to
which they apply, being the supreme law of the land. This
subject, in some of its aspects, was fully considered in Gilman v. Philadelphia.* What is there said need not be repeated. In that case it was held that the State of Pennsylvania might competently authorize a bridge to be built
across the Schuylkill River in that city, but that Congress,
in the exercise of its paramount power, might require it to
be removed, and prohibit and punish the erection of like
structures, whenever it was deemed expedient to do so. It
is the exercise, and not the existence, of the power that is
effectual and exclusive.
* 3 Wallace, 713.

Dec. 1871.]

EX PARTE MCNIEL.
Opinion of the court.

The Constitution took effect on the first Wednesday of
March, 1789. Pilot laws existed in several of the States at
that time, and were subsequently enacted in others. In all
such States, it is believed, they have been changed from
time to time according to the will of their respective legislatures. Suits in the State courts have been founded upon
them and recoveries had, and many such cases are reported.
In none of them have we found that the question was raised,
or a doubt expressed, as to the validity of the laws or the
authority of the States to enact them.*
The legislation of Congress upon the subject is as follows: The 4th section of the act of August 7th, 1789,t provided that pilots should be regulated by the existing laws
of the States, or such as the States- should thereafter enact,
"until further legislative provision should be made by Congress." Whatever may be the effect of the provision looking to future State legislation, it is clear that the body which
passed the section did not doubt the power of the States to
legislate upon the subject. This was the first Congress
which sat under the Constitution, and many of its members
were members of the Convention which framed that instrument. The act of March 2d, 1837,1 declares that a vessel,
approaching or leaving a port situate upon waters which are
the boundary between two States,'may employ a pilot licensed.
by either of such States, "any law, usage, or custom to the
contrary notwithstanding." The act of August 30th, 1852,ยง
regulates the appointment of pilots upon certain steamboats,.
and is a complete system as to the class of vessels to which
it applies. The act of June 8th, 1864,11 regulates the fee to.
be paid by a pilot for his certificate under the act of 1852.
It also requires pilots of the vessels of the class named to be.
licensed according to the provisions of that act. The act
of July 13th, 1866, declares that no regulation shall be!
* 4 Metcalf, 416; Smith v. Swift, 8 Id. 329; Martin v. Hilton, 9 Id. 371.;Nickerson v. Mason, 13 Wendell, 64; Low v. Commissioners of Pilotage,,
R. M. Charlton, 307; Matthew Hunt v. Mickey, 12 Metcalf, 346.
. 10 Id. 63..
5 Id. 153.
t 1 Stat. at Large, 54.

II13 Id. 120.
VOL.

xIII.

. 14 Id. 93.
16

Ex

PARTE McNIIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

adopted by any State making a discrimination as to the rule
of half-pilotage between the vessels therein described, and
such existing regulations were thereby annulled. The act
of February 25th, 1867,* contains a pilot regulation touching the sea-going vessels there described, with a proviso
that certain State regulations should not be thereby affected.
The act of July 25th, 1866,t provides for the revocation of
the pilot's license for the offences specified. These several
acts assert and exercise the plenary power of Congress over
the subject. This early and long-continned practical construction of the Constitution by both National and State authorities, as affecting the validity of the statutory provision
here in question, if a doubt could otherwise exist upon the
subject, would be entitled to the gravest consideration.
The precise question we are considering came before this
court in Cooleg v. The Board of Wardens of the City of Philadelphia.t The suit was for half-pilotage under a statute of
Pennsylvania, substantially the same, in this particular, with
the statute of New York. The plaintiff recovered in the
lower court, and the Supreme Court of the State affirmed
the judgment. The case was brought here for review by
a writ of error under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,
and was argued with exhaustive learning and ability. This
court, after the fullest consideration of the subject, also affirmed the judgment. We are entirely satisfied with that
adjudication, and reaffirm the doctrines which it lays down.
It is conclusive upon this branch of the case before us.
The other objections taken to the judgment relate to the
jurisdiction of the court. It is said there is no jurisdiction
in admiralty to maintain a libel fbr a penalty. It was not a
penalty that was recovered. There was a tender of services
upon which the law raised an implied promise to pay the
amount specified in the statute.ยง Courts of admiralty haye
undoubted jurisdiction of all marine contracts and torts.1j
14 Id. 412.
t Ib. 227.
+ 12 Howard, 299.
Commonwealth v. Ricketson, 5 Metcalf, 419; Steamship Co. v. Joliffe,
2 Wallace, 450; Cooley v. The Board of Wardens, 12 Howard, 312.
I1The Belfast, .7 Wallace, 624; Ins. Co. v. Dunham, 11 Id. 29.
*

Dec. 1871.]

Ex

PARTE

MONIEL.

Opinion of the court.

That contracts relating to pilotage are within the sphere of
the admiralty jurisdiction has not been controverted by the
counsel for the petitioner. The question is not an open one
in this court.*
It is urged further that a State law could not give jurisdiction to the District Court. That is true. A State law
cannot give jurisdiction to any Federal court; but that is
not a question in this case. A State law may give a substantial right of such a character that where there is no impediment arising from the residence of the parties, the right
may be enforced in the proper Federal tribunal whether it
be a court of equity, of admiralty, or of common law. The
statute in such cases does not confer the jurisdiction. That
exists already, and it is invoked to give effect to the right
by applying the appropriate remedy. This principle may
be laid down as axiomatic in our National jurisprudence. A
party forfeits nothing by going into a Federal tribunal. Jurisdiction having attached, his case is tried there upon the
same principles, and its determination is governed by the
same considerations, as if it had been brought in the proper
State tribunal of the same locality.t In no class of cases
has the application of this principle been sustained by this
court more frequently than in those of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.$:
APPLICATION FOR WRIT DENIED AND PETITION DISMISSED.

Hobart et al. v. Drogan et aL, 10 Peters, 120.
t Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheaton, 223; United States v. Knight, 14
Peters, 315; Steamboat Orleans v. Phwbus, 11 Id. 184; Thompson v. Phillips, 1 Baldwin, 272, 204; Lorman v. Clarke, 2 McLean, 568; Ex parte
Biddle, 2 Mason, 472; Johnston v. Vandyke, 6 McLean, 423; Prescott v.
Nevers, 4 Mason, 327; Clark v. Sohier, 1 Woodbury & Minott, 368.
$ The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522; The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438;
Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 324; Rules of Practice in Admiralty, established by this court, Nos. 12 and 92.
*

