DAVENPORT V. LAMB.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Having refused to do this, they were liable to him for the
fair value of the bonds at the time of the demand.
Mrs. Kitchen was not a necessary party to the suit. The
bonds were never hers in law. By the laws of Arkansas, a
husband cannot legally make a gift to his wife during the
marriage. He could not do so at the common law, and the
statute of Arkansas which enables a married woman to take
and hold property in her own right, expressly provides that
no conveyance from a man to his wife, directly or indirectly,
shall entitle her to any benefits or privileges of the act.*
Perhaps he might have made an equitable gift for her
benefit. But in this case, the husband had not parted with
the legal title to the bonds, and had a right to call any person to account who unlawfully converted them.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with directions to award a venire de

noVo.
Mr. Justice STRONG stated that he was unable to construe the contract upon which the plaintiff relied, as it was
construed by a majority of the court, and for that reason,
among others, he dissented from the judgment.

DAVENPORT V.

LAMB ET AL.

1. The act of Congress of 1836 authorizing the issue of patents for land in
the name of deceased parties, who in their lifetime became entitled to

such patents, applies to patents under the act of Congress of September
27th, 18.50, called the Donation Act of Oregon ; and such patents enure
to the parties designated in the Donation Act, and not solely to the parties designated in the act of 1836.
2. The Donation Act declared that in case husband or wife should die before
a patent issues, the survivor and children, or heirs, should be entitled
to the share or interest of the deceased in equal proportions, except

where the deceased should otherwise dispose of the property by will;
held that each of the children, and the surviving husband or wife, took
* Digest of Statutes of Arkansas, p. 765, tit. Married Women.

.Dec. 1871.]

DAVENPORT v. LAM B,
Statement of the case.

equal shares, and that the property of the deceased was not to be divided so as to give one-half to the surviving husband or wife, and the
other half to the children or heirs of the deceased.
3. A covenant to "1warrant and defend" property, for which a quit-claim
deed is executed "against all claims, the United States excepted," only
applies to claims from other sources than the United States. It does
not cover any interest of the United States, nor preclude its acquisition
by the covenantors or their heirs for themselves.
4. A covenant that if the grantors "obtain the fee simple" to property conveyed "from the government of the United States they will convey the
same" to the grantee, his heirs, or assigns, "by deed of general warranty" only takes effect in case the grantors acquire the title directly
from the United States, and does not cover the acquisition of the title
of the United States from any intermediate party.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Oregon.
and Ida Squires, asserting themselves as
Lamb
Emma
granddaughters of one Daniel Lownsdale, to own each an
undivided one-tenth of ".the south half of Block G" in
Portland, Oregon, filed a bill against their co-heirs and persons claiming under them for a partition; one Davenport,
who set up a title adverse to them all, being made a party
defendant, and the real matter in issue being the validity of
the title set up .by him.
The case was thus:
APPE AL

On the 25th of June, 1850, Daniel Lownsdale, Stephen
Coffin, and W. W. Chapman, were the owners of a land
claim, embracing a portion of the tract upon which the city
of Portand is situated. The legal title to the property was
then in the United States, but the parties, asserting their
claim to the possession under the law of the provisional
government of the Territory, expected that legislation would"
be taken at an early day by Congress for the transfer of the
title to them, or some one of them. This expectation of
legislation on their behalf was common with all occupants
of land in Oregon, whose rights were merely possessory, the
fee of the entire land in the Territory being in the United
States. With this expectation these claimants, on the day
named, executed a deed to Chapman, one of their own
number, of numerous lots and blocks in Portland, into

DAVENPORT V. LAIMB.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

which a portion of their claim had been divided, including
among them the already mentioned south half of block G,
the subject of the bill. The deed purported for the consideration of $60,000, to "release, confirm, and quit-claim" to
Chapman, his heirs and assigns, the described property; and
contained two covenants on the part of the grantors-one,
to warrant and defend the property to their grantee, his
heirs and assigns "against all claims except the United States;"
and the other, "that if they obtain the fee-simple to said property, from the governnient of the United States, they will convey
the same" to the grantee, his heirs or assigns, " by deed of
general warranty." The interest thus acquired by Chapman
in the south" half of block G, was afterwards assigned by
various mesne conveyances to the defendant, Davenport.
At the time this deed was executed Lownsdale was a
widower having three children, named James, Mary, and
Sarah.* At the same time there lived in the same town a
widow named Nancy Gillihan, having two children, called
William and Isabella. In July, 1850, the widower and the
widow intermarried, and they had, as the issue of this marriage, two children, named Millard and Ruth.
On the 27th of September, 1850, Congress passed the act,
which is generally known in Oregon as the Donation Act,
and under which the title to a large portion of the real
property of the State is held. It is entitled "An act to
create the office of surveyor-general of the public lands of
Oregon, and to provide for the survey and to make donations to the settlers of the said public lands."t
By the fourth section of this act a grant of land was made
to every white settler, or occupant of the public lands in
Oregon, above the age of eighteen years, who was a citizen
of the United States, or had made a declaration according
to law of his intention to become a citizen, or should make
such declaration on or before the first day of December,
1851, and who was at the time a resident of the Territory, or
might become a resident on or before the 1st of December,
* Mother of the two persons complainants in the bill.
t 9 Stat. at.Large, 496.

Dec. 1871.]

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.
Statement of the case.

1850, and who should reside upon and cultivate the land for
four consecutive years, and -otherwise conform to the provisions of the act. The grant was of 820 acres of land, if the
settler or occupant was a single man, but if a married man,
or if he should become married within a year from the first
of December, 1850, then the grant was of 640 acres, one-half
to himself and the other half to his wife, to be held by her in her
own right.
By the same-section the surveyor-general was required to
designate of the land thus grantedthe part enuring to the husband,
and the part enuring to the wife, and to enter the same on the
records of his office; and it was provided that in all cases
where such married persons complied with the provisions of
the act so as to entitle them to the grant, whether under the
previous provisional government or afterwards, and either
should die before the issue of a patent, " the survivor and children,
or heirs, of the deceased, shall be entitled to the share or interest of
the deceased in equal proportions," except when the deceased
should otherwise dispose of the same by wilL
Under this act Lownsdale was a donation claimant, and
dated the commencement of his settlement on the 22d of
September, 1848. This settlement became complete on the
22d of September, 1852, at the expiration of the four years
prescribed. The proof of the commencement of the settlement and of the continued residence and cultivation required by the act was regularly made; and of the land' the
east half was assigned to Lownsdale and the west half to his
wife Nancy. Within the portion thus assigned to the wife
the premises in controversy were included. The tract thus
claimed and settled upon embraced a fraction over 178 acres,
and for it, in October, 1860, a patent certificate was given to
Lownsdale and wife, and in June, 1865, a patent of the
United States was issued to them, giving and granting in
terms to Daniel Lownsdale the east half of the property, and
to his wife, Nancy Lowusdale, the west half.
Nancy died in April, 1854, before the issue of the patent,
leaving the four children already mentioned-two, William
and Isabella Gillihan, by her first husband, and two, Millard

DAVENPORT v. LAMB.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and Ruth Lownsdale, by her second. These four children
and her surviving husband Daniel became entitled to her
interest in the tract set apart to her; though in what shares
the husband took as respected the children, whether onehalf or only one-fifth, was one of the questions in the case.
In January, 1860, Daniel purchased the interest of Isabella
Gillihan. He himself died in May, 1862, intestate, leaving
as his heirs the four children already named, that is to say,
James and Mary, by his first wife, and Millard and Ruth
by his second wife ; and also two children (the complainants
in this case) of his deceased daughter Sarah, by his first
wife. The four children living, each inherited one undivided fifth of their father's estate, and the two children of
the deceased daughter, each one undivided tenth.
In 1864, William Gillihan, one of the children of Nancy,
brought suit in one of the courts of the State of Oregon for
partition of the tract set apart to Nancy as above-mentioned-called the Nancy Lownsdale tract-making defendants the heirs of both Daniel and Nancy, and numerous
other persons purchasers and claimants under Daniel. By
the decree in that.case it was among other things adjudged
that Daniel was the owner of an undivided two-fifths of the
entire Nancy Lownsdale tract, and that the said William
Gillihan and Ruth and Millard Lownsdale, as heirs of Nancy
Lownsdale, deceased, were each entitled to an undivided
one-fifth of the whole of said tract, and certain portions of
said tract were decreed and set apart to the said 'William,
Ruth, and Millard, to be held by them in severalty, and the
residue of said tract was set apart and allotted to the heirs,
vendees, or* claimants, under Daniel, according to their respective interests, without however determining the extent
of the respective rights and interests of the heirs, and vendees or claimants between themselves, and by reason of the
said partition not being equal, owelty was allowed to William, Millard, and Ruth. The portion set apart to the heirs,
and vendees or claimants, under Daniel, included the south
half of block G, the premises in controversy.
Two granddaughters of Lownsdale, through his daughter

Dec. 1871.]

DAVENPORT v. LAMB.
Statement of the case.

Sarah, now deceased, assumed accordingly that through their
mother, this Sarah, they owned, together, her undivided onefifth of the south half of the block G; each of them of course
an undivided one-tenth.
Davenport denied such their ownership, asserting that he
himself owned the whole of the south half of the block; or,
if not the whole, then five-eighths; and, if not five-eighths,
then one-half; either one of which latter interests in himself
being inconsistent, like the first, with that of one-fifth in the
said two granddaughters.
I. Davenport founded his ownership apparently of the
whole of the south half in part on the first of the covenants
(quoted supra, p. 420) in the deed of June 25th, 1850, to
Chapman, through whom he claimed; and as much or more
on a matter alleged 'by him, to wit, that in 1860 Lownsdale
offered to sell him a portion of another block in Portland
(block 75), and that he, Davenport, knowing that a difficulty
was likely to occur about that and other property, submitted
to Lownsdale a list of all the property he believed he then
rightly held, and among the rest the south half of block G,
and pointed out such as he thought the title of might be de
fective through him, and that Lownsdale agreed verbally for
$2000 to give a confirmatory title to all the property thus
submitted to him, "that HE thought might require it."
Davenport accordingly paid the $2000, and Lownsdale gave
to him a deed for half of block 75, and also a confirmatory
deed for certain other lots, but not for the south half of
block G; that lot not being included among those described
in the confirmatory deed; and a lot therefore to which
Lownsdale, as Davenport considered, was to be held to have
declared that he had no title in himself.
II. But if this was not all so, and if what was thus alleged
in the nature of an estoppel in pais did not exist or operate,
Davenport conceived that still he had five-eighths of the
property; for that (explaining), he had gotFirst. Four-eighths, the true share (as he asserted) of
Daniel as survivor of his wife., inasmuch as under the statute which gave the wife's property to her surviving husband

DAVENPORT v. LAMB.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and her children "in equal proportions," Daniel had got onehalf or four-eighths, an equal share with the children, and
not one-fifth, the same share as if he were but one of five
children, regarded as a class; and that this one-half passed
under the second of the two covenants of the deed of June
25th, 1850.
Second. One-eighth,-the eighth, to wit, that came from
Isabella Gillihan; for, that this had been truly and literally
"obtained " by Daniel " from the government of the United
States," though indirectly, and came under the covenant;
the fact, as he assumed, that it came through Isabella, and
not directly, not affecting Lownsdale's obligation or that of
his heirs to convey.
III. The final and least favorable to himself of Davenport's positions was, that if this second fraction of title-the
one-eighth-Isabella's share-did not pass, still that he,
Davenport, had one-half; the share of Daniel as got by survivorship, and under the statute, as already stated, from his
deceased wife Nancy.
In this state of claim respectively it was that the bill in
this case was filed; the complainants setting up a claim for
their one-fifth, and Davenport setting up his title; the matter
already mentioned as alleged by way of estoppel in pais,
though set out and well colored in his answer to the bill, not
being proved by writing or in some essential features otherwise than by his own testimony.
The court below held that Daniel Lownsdale became the
owner in fee of two-fifths (undivided) of the west half of the
Lownsdale donation claim (being the part allotted to Nancy),
including the south half of block G; one-fifth by donation
from the United States upon the death of his wife Nancy,
before the issue of the patent, and the other one-fifth by purchase from Isabella Gillihan; and that the title to the onefifth of the south half of block G acquired from the United
States enured to Davenport, by virtue of the covenant in the
deed of June 25th, 1850, to Chapman, Davenport deriving
his interest under Chapman; and that the remaining fourfifths in the south half of that block were owned by the four

Dec.'1871.]

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.
Argument for the appellant.

children of Lownsdale living, and the two children of his
deceased daughter Sarah; and the court decreed a partition
accordingly.
From this decree Davenport alone appealed to this court.
Mr. W. W. Chapman,for the appellant:
1. The decree is erroneous, in not giving to Davenport
the whole of the property in controversy, instead of one-fifth
of it.
2. If not thus erroneous, it is erroneous in not giving fiveeighths.
3. And if not erroneous in either respect, it is erroneous
in not giving to him one-half instead of one-fifth.
1. Davenport is entitled to the whole property. In making
the decree below the first clause in the covenant is unnoticed, and the second (including the release obtained from
Isabella) is held to operate only upon the same proportional
interest in the block which Lownsdale obtained in the tract
of 178 acres as survivor of his wife-determined by the
court to be only one-fifth of it-notwithstanding the original decree in partition had allotted to the vendees and heirs
of Lownsdale the entire block.
The first covenant protects the covenantee and assigns, in
the possession against Lownsdale and all other persons, and
against any title ingrafted upon it through his instrumentality. He filed his notification, including it, and dating his
settlement and residence from the 22d September, 1848, to
and including the date of the covenant. This appropriated
the possession and the block to his own use, against which
he had covenanted to warrant and defend. He was not
obliged to do this. He could as easily have omitted it as
have embraced it, and he knew when he did so that his wife
would thereby become entitled to an interest in her own
right, and deprive the covenantee of the possession and title,
unless by the happening of a contingency provided for by
the law (then unlikely to occur), by which the title and possession might revest in him. In the face of this covenant he
took this risk. In consequence of the peculiar form of the

426

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.

[Sup.

Ot.

Argument for the appellee.

covenant, the covenantee might not have been able to maintain an action at law, and because the subject was, for the
time, supposed to be out of reach of the arm of a court of
equity. But the contingency did happen. The same possession, with a title ingrafted upon it, through his instrumentality, revested in him, and it is now within the reach
of a court of equity, perfect and complete, as contemplated
by the parties in the formation of the second covenant, and
therefore his warranty should estop him and his heirs from
asserting a right to the possession thus ripened into a title
through his act.
In addition to this, the agreement between Davenport and
Lownsdale operated as an estoppel in pais. The south onehalf of block G was not put in the confirmatory deed only
because Lownsdale declared he had no title to it. Having
received the $2000 for confirming to Davenport all that lie
did claim, his descendants ought not now to be allowed to
gainsay his declaration.
2. If not entitled to all, Davenport is entitled to fie-eighths.
The Donation Act gives the property to the husband, as one
party, and to the children as the other, in equal proportions. Each thus takes one-half. This seems a more natural
construction than to reduce the husband to the grade of a
child. If this is so, Davenport has certainly one-half, equal
to four-eighths.
But lie has another fifth through Isabella under the second
covenant.
Mr. G. IL Williams, contra, argued that the covenants to
Chapman were joint and not several, and that being in a
deed where he was himself grantor were void; that the
heirs of Lownsdale were not named in it, and that it did
not bind them; that the covenantors had not obtained the
fee from the United States; but that it was granted to the
heirs of Nancy Lownsdale, and that if the husband's share,
as survivor of his wife, was within the covenant, the shares
of the children assuredly were not; that these shares under
the Oregon statute were four-fifths; the husband being only
entitled to an equal proportion, or one-fifth, with them.

Dec. 1871.]

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
Neither of the patentees were living at the time the patent
for the donation claim in this case was issued, Lownsdale
having died in May, 1862, and Nancy having died in April,
1854. At common law the patent would have been inoperative and void from this circumstance.* By that law the
grant to a deceaded party is as ineffectual to pass the title
of the grantor as if made to a fictitious person; and the rule
would apply equally to grants of the government as to grants
of individuals, but for the act of Congress of May 20th,
1836,t which obviates this result. That act declares : "that
in all cases where patents for public lands have been or may
hereafter be issued, in pursuance of any law of the United
States, to a person who has died, or who shall hereafter die,
before the date of such patent, the title to the land designated therein, shall enure to, and become vested in, the
heirs, devisees, and assigns of such deceased patentee, as if
the patent had issued to-the deceased person during life."
This act makes the title enure in a manner different from
that provided by the Donation Act upon the death of either
owner before the issue of the patent, for we do not understand that the survivor of the deceased husband or wife was
at the time his or her heir by any law of Oregon. If the
act of 1886 can be considered as applying to patents issued
under the Donation Act, where the party originally entitled
to the patent has died before the patent issues-and on this
point no question is made by either party-then its language
must be construed in connection with, and be limited by,
the provisions of the Donation Act, giving the property of
a deceased husband or wife to the survivor and children, or
heirs of the deceased, unless otherwise disposed of by will;
and in that case the patent here must be held to enure in
favor of these parties instead of the heirs solely.
*Galt v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 345; McDonald v. Smalley, 6 Id. 261; Galloway v. Finley, 12 Id. 298; McCracken's Reirs v. Beall and Bowman, 3 A.
X. Marshall, 210; Thomas v. Wyatt, 25 Missouri, 26.
t 5 Stat. at Large, 31.

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The four children of Nancy Lownsdale, the two by her
first husband, Gillihan, and the two by her last husband,
survived her, and these, with her surviving husband, became entitled, on her death, to her property in equal proportions, she having died intestate. This is, indeed, the
express language of the statute, and in consequence each of
the five persons named took an undivided fifth interest in
the property. The learned counsel of the appellant, however, contends that the statute should be construed as dividing the property equally between the survivor on the one
part, and the children or heirs upon the other. But the construction we give is the more natural one, and is in accordance with the uniform ruling of the courts, State and Federal,
in Oregon.
In January, 1860, Lownsdale purchased the interest in
this property of Isabella Gillihan (then Isabella Potter, she
having intermarried with William Potter), and thus became
owner of two undivided fifths. On his death these two undivided fifths passed to his heirs, he having died intestate,
unless they were controlled by his covenant in the deed to
Chapman.
,
In 1864 a suit was brought in a Circuit Court of the State
of Oregon, by one of the children of Nancy by her first
husband, for partition of the property which was assigned
to her of the donation claim-the Nancy Lownsdale tract
as it is termed. In that suit the heirs of both Daniel and
Nancy, and numerous other persons, purchasers and occupants under Daniel and the appellant, Davenport, were made
parties. The suit resulted in a decree setting off, so far as
practicable, the two undivided interests of Daniel to his
heirs and vendees in lots and blocks as they were claimed,
without any determination, however, of the extent of the
respective rights and interests of these heirs and vendees
between themselves; and in setting apart the remaining
undivided three-fifths in severalty to the children of Nancy
who had retained their interests, owelty being allowed and
paid for the inequalities existing in the partition. The tract
set apart for the two-fifths of Lownsdale included the prem-

Dec. 1871.]

DAVENPORT

V.

LAMB.

429

Opinion of the court.

ises in controversy.

The heirs of Lownsdale were his two

children living by his first wife, two children of a deceased
daughter by his first wife, named Emma S. Lamb and Ida
Squires, and his two children by his gecond wife. Against
these heirs the only claimant of the premises in controversy
was the appellant, Davenport, who derived his interest by
various mesne conveyances from Chapman.
The present suit is brought by the children of the deceased
daughter of Lownsdale by his first wife, they having inherited her interest.
For its determination it is necessary to consider the effect
upon the interest claimed by Davenport of the covenants
contained in the deed of Lownsdale, Coffin, and Chapman,
executed to Chapman on the 25th of June, 1850.
So far as that instrument purports to be a conveyance
from Chapman to himself, it is of course ineffectual for any
purpose. Its execution by him left his interest precisely as
it existed previously. But this superfluous insertion of his
name in the deed as a grantor, does not impair the efficacy
of the instrument as a conveyance to him from Lownsdale
and Coffin, nor their covenants with him and his heirs and
assigns. These covenants must be treated as the joint contracts of the two actual grantors.
Whether these covenants bind the heirs of the covenantors, they not being named, may perhaps admit of question.* The court below held that to the extent that the
covenants affected the land, the heirs were bound by them,
and as they have not appealed from this decision, it is unnecessary for the disposition of the case that the question
should be determined by us.
What, then, is the effect and operation of the covenants?
The first covenant, as already, stated, is "to warrant and defend" the property released to Chapman, his heirs and
assigns "against all claims, the United States excepted." At the
time this covenant was executed the title to the property
was in the United States, and this fact was well known to
. Rawle on Covenants of Title, 579; Lloyd v. Thursby, 9 Modern, 463;
Morse v. Aldrich, 24 Pickering, 450.

DAVENPORT v.

LAMB.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the parties. Land was then occupied by settlers throughout the Territory of Oregon, under laws of the provisional
government, which were generally respected and enforced.
These laws could of course only confer a possessory right,
and no one pretended to acquire any greater interest under
them. It was against the assertion of claims from this source
and any other source, except the United States, the owner
of the fee, that the covenant in question was directed. By
it the grantors were precluded from asserting any interest
in the premises against the grantee and his heirs and assigns,
unless such interest were acquired from the United States.
The warranty does not cover that interest, and did not preclude its acquisition by the covenantors or either of them,
or by their heirs, or its enjoyment by them or either of them
when acquired.
The second covenant is that if the grantors " obtain /ltefee
simple" to the property "from tIhe government of the United
States, lhey will convey the same" to the grantee, his heirs or
assigns, "by deed of general warranty." This covenant is
special and limited. It takes effect only in case the grantors, or their heirs (if the covenant binds the heirs), acquire
the title directly from the United States; it does not cover
the acquisition of the title of the United States from any intermediate party, and this was evidently the intention of the
parties. They expected to obtain by the legislation of Congress the title of the United States to lands in their possession, and in case their expectations in this respect were realized, they contracted to convey the same to their grantee, or
to his heirs or assigns. They could not have intended, in case
their expectations were disappointed, and the title passed
from the United States to other parties, to render it impossible for them to acquire that title in all future time front
those parties without being under obligation to instantlv
transfer it to the grantee or his successors in interest.* And
such would be the effect of their covenant if it were given
an operation .beyond the precise limitation specified.
* Comstock v. Smith, 13 Pickering, 116.

Dec. 1871.]

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.

Opinion of the court.

As already stated, Lownsdale took under the Donation
Act, as the survivor of his deceased wife, one undivided fifth
'interest in her property, and he subsequently purchased a
similar interest from Isabella Gillihan, a daughter, of his
wife by her first husband. The interest which he thus purchased is not covered by the covenant. He did not acquire
it directly from the United States. Whether the interest
which he received as survivor of his deceased wife, N~ancy
ILownsdale, is withjn the covenant depends upon the question whether he took that interest by descent, as heir of
Nancy, or directly as donee from the United States. The
court below held that he took as donee, and not as heir, and
that in consequence the interest was within the 6peration of
the covenant, and Davenport, his .assignee, was entitled to
have such interest transferred to him, and that interest was
accordingly set apart in severalty to him.
Whether this ruling is correct it is unnecessary for us to
determine. The appellant does not of course controvert it,
and the heirs of Lownsdale, who alone could in this case
question its correctness, have not appealed from the decree
of the court below.
The parol evidence offered of an alleged contract, in 1860,
on the part of Lownsdale with Davenport, to confirm the
title of the latter to the whole of block G, and of Lownsdale's declarations at that time as to the title, is entirely insufficient to create any estoppel in pais against the assertion
of the interest claimed by his heirs to portions of that property. The alleged contract of Lownsdale was simply to confirm the title of Davenport to all lands to which he, Lownsdale, deemed the title doubtful; and the ground of complaint
appears to be that he did not consider the title of Davenport
to block G as doubtful, and so declared, and therefore did
not include that block in the property covered by his eonfirmatory deed. The declarations are at best but the expression of his opinion in relation to a subject upon which
Davenport was equally well informed, or possessed equally
with him the means of information. If the evidence of such
declarations could be received years after the death of the

432

WEST TENNESSEE BANK V. CITIZENS' BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

party who is alleged to have made them, to control the legal
title which has descended to his heirs, a new source of insecurity in the tenure of property would be created, and heirs
would often hold their possessions upon the uncertain testimony of interested parties, which it would be difficult and
sometimes impossible to meet or explain after an interval
of years, instead of holding them upon the sure foundations
of the records of the country.*
The decree of the court below must be
AFFIRMED.

WEST TENNESSEE

BANK V.

CITIZENS'

BANK.

A case is not within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act when the judg-

ment below is founded on a matter which is not within the section,
even though it be founded also, for an independent base, on other matter
which it is asserted is within it.

by Mr. Edward Janin, to dismiss, for want of
jurisdiction, a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a case wherein the Bank of West Tennessee was
the plaintiff, and the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, defendant;
the case having been brought into this court by a writ of
error, issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
MOTION,

Mr. T. J. Durant opposed the motion.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought suit against the defendant
in error, in the Fifth District Court of New Orleans, to recover the sum of $93,380.97, for moneys deposited by the
plaintiff with the defendant, and moneys collected by the
latter for the former. All the so-called moneys received by
* Biddle Boggs v. The Mereed Mining Co., 14 California, 367.

