Dec. 1871.]

PUGH V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

PUGH V. UNITED STATES.
.A petition to the Court of Claims setting forthFirst. That the United States, during the late civil war, illegally, violently,
and forcibly took possession of the petitioner's plantation, in one of the rebellious States, on the false pretext that it had been abandoned by the owner, and
held it until January, 1806, during which time the United States, and the
agents placed in charge of the plantation, destroyed and carried away the property of the petitioner to the value of $42,508 ;
Secondly. That the United States, during the same period, rented the planta.
tion to sundry persons who made large crops, worth $15,000 or $30,000 ;
does not present a case within the present jurisdiction of that court.
The case made by the first allegation is barred by the act of July 4th, 1864,
which excludes claims growing " out of the destruction or appropriation
of or damage to property by the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion.")
The second, because presenting the leasing of the property no otherwise
than as an incident to the unlawful appropriation and spoliation of the
plantation; and therefore not within the second and third sections of
the act of July 2d, 1864, which provide for leasing abandoned lands by
t1w agents of the Treasury Department, and the payment 6f the net
amounts into the Treasury.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By the act of Congress of 1855, constituting the Court of
Claims, jurisdiction is given to it to hear and determine all
claims against the United States founded on any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department,
or upon any contract express or implied with the government of the United States.
A subsequent act, however-that of July 4th, 1864-enacts that this jurisdiction "shall not extend to or include
any claim against the United States growing out of the destruction or appropriation of or damage to property by the
army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion
from the commencement to the close thereof."
An act of July 2d, 1864,* amendatory of the Abandoned
and Captured Property Act (an act which provides for taking
possession and selling of captured and abandoned property
APPEAL

* 13 Stat. at Large, 375.

PUGH V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

and paying the net proceeds to loyal owners) enacts, by its
second and third sections, that the Treasury agents shall take
charge of and lease the abandoned lands and houses, &c., and
pay the net amount of rents collected into the Treasury.
In this state of statutory law one Pugh filed his petition in
the Court of Claims, the substantial averments of it being:
First. That the United States, during the late civil war,
illegally, violently, and forcibly took possession of his plantation, in the State of Louisiana, on the false pretext that it
had been abandoned by the owner, and held it until January,
1866, during which time the United States, and the agents
placed in charge of the plantation, destroyed and carried
away the property of the petitioner to the value of $42,508;
and,
Secondly. That the United States, during the same period,
rented the plantation to sundry persons, who made large
crops, worth $15,000 or $30,000.
This petition was dismissed by the Court of Claims for
want of jurisdiction, and the case was now here on appeal.
Air. T. J7. Durant, for the appellant:
1. The first part of the case, the claim for the $42,508, is
founded on an implied contract; on that assumpsit or undertaking which the law raises, ex &e-gto el bono, against every
one who carries off property rightly belonging to another,
to restore it. It is not less plainly founded on a law of Congress. There is no allegation in the petition that it was the
"army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion,"
which destroyed or carried off the property to the value of
the $42,508, and accordingly there is nothing to bring the
case within the act of July 4th, 1864, which excludes destruction or loss from those sources.
2. But if that act is supposed to be a bar to the first part
of the claim, certainly it is no bar to the second. The claim
for the profits from leasing comes plainly within the act providing for the leasing of abandoned lands.
M
M.

C. .H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.

Dec. 1871.]

PUGH V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The destruction of property complained of was during the
war and in one of the States engaged in the rebellion, and
the presumption, in the absence of inconsistent allegations,
is that it was by the military forces of the United States. It
is clear that a petition for compensation for injuries of this
character could not be sustained in the Court of Claims, for
the demand plainly grows "out of the destruction or appropriation of or damage to property by the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion," and is excluded
from the cognizance of that court by the express terms of
the act of July 4th, 1864.
But it is insisted that the court had at least jurisdiction
of the case made by the petition in respect to the leasing of
the plantation, under the amendment to the Captured and
Abandoned Property Act made by the second and third sections of the act of July 2d, 1864. These sections provide for
leasing abandoned lands by the agents of the Treasury Department, and the payment of the net amounts of rents collected into the Treasury. But the petition in this case makes
the leasing an incident only to the unlawful appropriation
and spoliation of the plantation. It does not allege any leasing by the agents of the Treasury Department, or that any
rents were collected by them or paid into the Treasury.
It is plain, therefore, that the petition does not state a case
within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. If the petitioner has any claim upon the government he must seek
relief from Congress.
The decree dismissing the petition must be
AFFIRMED.

