Dec. 1871.]

HAMPTON V.. ROUSE.
Statement of the case.

no amount can be said to be involved, but only the rights
of inventors, to the benefit of their discoveries, as against
the government or other inventors -without
allowing a
naked trespasser the benefit of appeal simply because he
disputes the validity of a patent. The assumption really is
that the validity of every patent may be attacked by any
trespasser in a collateral way. Is this admissible?
Mr. B. D. Mussey, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The patent law of February, 1861, gives to parties to suits
arising under any law of the United States giving to inventors the exclusive right to their inventions or discoveries, a
writ of error or appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States without regard to the sum in controversy. The act
of 1870 does not alter the right of appeal or to a writ of
error in this respect.
The motion to dismiss must, therefore, be
DENIED.

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
In a writ of error to a joint judgment against several, all must join. The
omission of one or more is an irregularity for which the writ will be
dismissed; a matter often held.

was a motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It appeared from the record that Wade Hampton, Wade
Hampton, Jr., andJ. M. Howell, were defendants in the court
below to an action of ejectment, and that the bill of exceptions, on which the writ of error was sued out, was tendered
by them jointly. The judgment was against the defendant
in the singular, but, as the verdict was joint, this court considered it obvious that this was a mere clerical error, and
that the judgment, doubtless, followed the verdict.
THIS

WELLS V. MCGREGOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Wade Hampton alone prosecuted the writ of error, and
there appeared to have been no summons and severance or
other equivalent proceeding.*

M;. P. Phillips,in support of the motion; Mr. W. W. Boyce,
contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
It has often been held that in a writ of error to a joint
judgment against several, all must join; and that the omission of one or more, without such proceeding, is an irregularity for which the writ will be dismissed.t The motion in
the present case must, therefore, be
GRANTED.

WELLS V.

MN
CGREGOR.

1. A decree of the highest court of a State affirming an order of an inferior
court, by which a motion to set aside a sheriffs return to an execution
was allowed and an aliasexecution awarded, is not a "final judgment"
within the meaning of the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, nor within
the meaning of the 9th section of the organic act of the Territory of
Mdontana, giving appeals from the Supreme Court of the Territory to
this court.
2. Writs of error from this court must bear the teste of the Chief Justice.
MOTION, by Mr. _Robert Leech, to dismiss a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of Montana; the case being thus:
The 22d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,1 gives writs
of error to Circuit Courts of the United States from this
court in cases of" final judgment," in certain cases specified.
The 1st section of the act of September 29th, 1789, entitled "A n act to regulate process in the courts of the United
States,"ยง provides that "a l l writs and processes issuing from
See Masterson v. Herndon, 10 Wallace, 416.
t Williams v. Bank of the United States, 11 Wheaton, 414; Owings v.
Kincannon, 7 Peters, 399; The Protector, 11 Wallace, 82.
1 1 Stat. at Large, 84.
lb. 93.

