Dec. 1871.]

WHEELER V. HARRIS.
Statement of the case.

conclusion that they were insolvent, or at least furnished
reasonable cause for a belief that such was the fact.
4th. It only remains to add that the creditors, Toof, Phillips & Co., had also reasonable ground to believe that the
conveyances were made in fraud of the provisions of the
bankrupt act. This, indeed, follows necessarily from the
facts already stated. The act of Congress was designed to
secure an equal distribution of the property of an insolvent
debtor among his creditors, and any transfer made with a
view to secure the property, or any part of it, to one, and
thus prevent such equal distribution, is a transfer in fraud
of the act. That such was the effect of the conveyances in
this case, and that this effect was intended by both creditors
and bankrupts, does not admit, upon the evidence, of any
rational doubt. A clearer case of intended fraud upon the
act is not often presented.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY was absent from the court when
this case was submitted, and consequently took no part in
its decision.

WHEELER V. HARRIS.
1. On appeal to the Circuit Court from a decree in the District Court for the
payment of money, the Circuit Court affirmed the judgment of the District Court with costs to be taxed, from which affirmance the respondent
took an appeal here. After the appeal here, another decree was rendered by the Circuit Court, in which, after reciting the former decree
and taxation of costs, it was decreed in form that the appellee have
judgment against the appellant for the amount decreed, together with
costs, amounting to the sum of $5444.
2. On motion to dismiss this last appeal, on the. ground of a former one
pending in the same case: Held, that under the circumstances, the first
decree was not a final decree; and that it was the first appeal and not
the second which should be dismissed.
3. The court approves the practice of entering decrees in form before taking
appeals to this court.

THIS was a motion by Mr. Donokue to dismiss an appeal
from the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New

WHEELER V. HIARRIS.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

York, on the ground that a prior appeal bad been taken and
was pending in the same suit.
The case was thus:
The Judiciary Act, by its 22d section,* gives a writ of
error to this court, from final decrees in the Circuit Courts,
and enacts that:
"Every judge signing a citation on any writ of error, shall
take good and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error shall
prosecute his writ to effect, and answer all damages and costs,
if he fail to make his plea good."
The 23d section of the same act, enacts that the writ of
error
"Shall be a supersedeas, and stay execution in cases only
where the writ of error is served by a copy thereof being lodged
for the adverse party in the clerk's office, where the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after ... passing the
decree complained of. Until the expiration of which term of
ten days, executions shall not issue in any case where a writ of
error may be a supersedeas."
The act of March 3d, 1803,t amendatory of the said act,
gives by its 2d section an appeal in all "final judgments and
decrees in the Circuit Courts, in any cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, declaring that such appeals shall be
subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are
prescribed in law, in cases of writs of error."
With these statutory provisions in force, Harris, on libel
filed in the District Court at New York, obtained a decree
for advances made to a vessel of the respondent. From that
decree the respondent appealed to the Circuit Court. The
cause was there tried, and on the 19th of March, 1870, a
decree made in these words:
"This cause coming on to be heard on the appeal herein taken
by S. G. Wheeler, after hearing, and due deliberation had; it is
now ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the judgment herein
be affirmed, with the costs to be taxed."
1 Stat. at Large, 85.

t 2 Id. 2441.

Dec. 1871.]

WHEELER V. HARRIS.
Statement of the case.

After more than ten days-there having as yet -been no
taxation of costs nor decree in more form than as above
given-the respondent appealed to the Supreme Court of
the United States, giving a bond duly approved and sufficient
in form and in amount to operate as a stay of execution.
The libellants, notwithstanding such appeal, having caused.
their costs in the Circuit Court to be taxed, issued execution.
Thereupon, the respondent moved to set aside the execution,
insisting:
1st. That no execution could regularly issue upon a mere
order of affirmance.
2d. That the respondent had ten days after a judgment in
form awarding to the libellants a recovery of some amount
ascertained and settled by the terms of a final decree.
On the other hand, it was argued by the libellants, that
the order of affirmance was the final decree, within the meaning of the acts of Congress, and that the appeal was, therefore, too late; that such order of affirmance was frequently
the only order made in the Circuit Court for New York, and
that appeals had in many cases been heard in the Supreme
Court of the United States, when no other order or judgment of the Circuit Court appeared in the record; that
Silsby v. Foote* was a signal instance of this; that there an
appeal in equity had been taken to the Supreme Court
within ten days after the decision of the Circuit Court was
announced and entered in the minutes, and before a decree
was settled and entered; and that after such formal decree
was made, another appeal was taken. But that on a motion
to dismiss, the court declared that either appeal was regular, in view of the differing practice prevailing in different
circuits; but, as it was not proper that there should be two
appeals in the same case, they dismissed the latter and
allowed the former to stand. The counsel for the libellants,
therefore, insisted in the Circuit Court below that the execution was regular.
* 20 Howard, 290.

"WHEELER V. l-HARRrs.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

The circuit judge, in passing upon the motion to set

aside the execution, said as follows:
"The 22d section of the act of 1789, and the 2d section of the
act of 1803, are held to require the judge, on signing the citation, on appeal, to require security in a sum sufficient to cover
the whole judgment, damages, and costs, as well as the costs in
error.* The inference is at least plausible, that until sonic actual
award of damages and costs to a definite amount, the party appealing does not know, and the judge taking the security does
not know what should be the amount of the bond, nor in what
amount the sureties should justify; and that no judgment can
be said to be rendered, an( more especially no decree in admiralty can be said to be passed, until some actual award of recovery by the hbellant is made.
" If the case was not ripe fbr an appeal, then such appeal
would be dismissed, and it necessarily follows that it can have
no influence on the 1)resent motion ; that is to say, if it was
premature and would be dismissed by the Supreme Court, then
it cannot stay the libellant's proceedings. If it was not premature, but will operate to give the Supreme Court jurisdiction,
still, not having been taken within ten days after the entry of
the ordeii appealed from, it cannot stay execution, unless I should
hold that an appeal may be taken before the ten days begin to
run, within which it must be taken. In view of the decision in
Silsby v. Foote, I prefer to leave it to the Supreme Court to say
whether the ten days begin to run so soon as the time arrives
when an appeal may be taken; and whether, if the respondent
waits until the actual entry of a decree which settles definitely
all the details, his appeal, if taken within ten days thereafter,
will stay execution.
"Here, an execution has been issued when there is no judgment or decree awarding to the libellants a recovery, or awarding to them any execution or other means of giving effect to the
decision of the court. I am informed that it has not been unusual in this circuit, to issue execution in cases in admiralty,
when no other judgment than an order of affirmance has been
made or entered, the proctor, for that purpose, taking the amount
Catlett v. Brodie, 9 Wheaten, 553; Stafford v.Union Bank, 16 Howard,

Dec. 1871.]

WHEELER

v. HARRIS.

Argument in favor of dismissing the last appeal.

of damages to be collected from the decree in the District Court,
and the costs of appeal from the taxation by the clerk. I think
such a practice both loose and irregular, and I am not aware of
any like practice anywhere."
The circuit judge accordingly set the execution aside,
thus implying, of course, that the first appeal was premature, and in consequence of this opinion and the action of
the court a decree was thus entered on the 27th day of May,
1871:
"A decree of affirmance having been entered herein on the
19th day of March, 1870, by which the decree of the District
Court was in all things affirmed with costs to be taxed, which
costs were taxed on the 21st day of April, 1870, at $640.61;
now; on motion of the proctors for the appellees, it is ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the appellee have judgment against
said S. G. Wheeler, appellant, for the amount so decreed then,
together with the costs so taxed, amounting, with interest, to
the' sum of $5444.69, for which judgment is hereby entered
against him, the said appellant, and that the appellees have execution therefor."
From this judgment a petition of appeal to this court was
filed on the 7th day of'June, 1871, and on the same day a
citation issued.
The present motion was made to dismiss this last appeal.
-Donohue,
MIr.

in support of his motion:

Silsby v. Foote has passed on this very question. Under
that decision the first appeal is good, and the question whether it stays proceedings or not does not change this matter.
In the present matter, therefore, the case is before the court,
on the first appeal; and two appeals are not allowable in the
same case on the same question.
The statute giving the party an appeal gives the defeated
party the right to appeal from the rendering or passing of
the judgment or decree complained of He has his choice,
and when he takes it, and his appeal is good, his further
right or appeal in that case is gone.

BEVANS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Both contingencies on which an appeal rest bad occurred.
When the first appeal was taken the judgment bad passed
and the decree bad been rendered; all that remained to be
done was to make up the amount,-amerely clerical operation.
Messrs. Goodrich and Wheeler, contra, argued that in view
of the whole case, if either appeal was to be dismissed it
should be the first.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
It is quite true that two appeals are not allowed in the
same case on the same question. We must determine which
one of the two should be dismissed. It may be that the first
appeal was from a decree which might be taken as final, if
the second decree had not been rendered.* But it is obvious that the circuit judge did not regard it as final, and it
was certainly defective. The second decree was rendered,
not by inadvertence, but in view of the rendition of the first
decree; and, in order to settle the practice in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, that a decree
of affirmance, without taxation of costs and without specifying the sum for which it is rendered, is not to be regarded
as a final decree.
We think this the better practice, and therefore hold that
the first appeal must be
DIsilISSED AS IRREGULAR.

BEVANS, RECEIVER,

V.

UNITED STATES.

1. 'Where a receiver of public moneys has such moneys in his hands, which
would not have been in his hands at all, if he had paid them over
with the promptness that the acts of Congress and the Treasury Regulations made in pursuance of them, prescribing the duties of receivers, in
this respect made it his duty to do, and which therefore-inasmuch as
* Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 6 Wallace,
Howard, 290.

153; Silsby v. Foote, 20

