432

WEST TENNESSEE BANK V. CITIZENS' BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

party who is alleged to have made them, to control the legal
title which has descended to his heirs, a new source of insecurity in the tenure of property would be created, and heirs
would often hold their possessions upon the uncertain testimony of interested parties, which it would be difficult and
sometimes impossible to meet or explain after an interval
of years, instead of holding them upon the sure foundations
of the records of the country.*
The decree of the court below must be
AFFIRMED.

WEST TENNESSEE

BANK V.

CITIZENS'

BANK.

A case is not within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act when the judg-

ment below is founded on a matter which is not within the section,
even though it be founded also, for an independent base, on other matter
which it is asserted is within it.

by Mr. Edward Janin, to dismiss, for want of
jurisdiction, a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a case wherein the Bank of West Tennessee was
the plaintiff, and the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, defendant;
the case having been brought into this court by a writ of
error, issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
MOTION,

Mr. T. J. Durant opposed the motion.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought suit against the defendant
in error, in the Fifth District Court of New Orleans, to recover the sum of $93,380.97, for moneys deposited by the
plaintiff with the defendant, and moneys collected by the
latter for the former. All the so-called moneys received by
* Biddle Boggs v. The Mereed Mining Co., 14 California, 367.

Dec. 1871.]

WEST TENNESSEE BANK V. CITIZENS' BANK.

438

Opinion of the court.

the defendant were the notes of the rebel government. The
District Court, on the 27th of March, 1867, gave judgment
for the plaintiff. The case was thereupon taken by appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State. That court, on the 14th
of December, 1869, reversed the judgment of the court below and dismissed the case. In the opinion delivered it was
said: "Under the constitution of 1868 the courts of this
State cannot entertain an action based upon transactions in
Confederate treasury notes. We think the evidence discloses that this case is founded upon dealings in unlawful
currency, and the court has often refused to lend its aid to
transactions reprobated by law." The constitution of 1868
was not in existence when the case was decided by the District Court.
The Supreme Court founded its judgment alike upon the
constitutional provision and prior adjudications. Those adjudications are numerous and conclusive upon the subject.*
The constitution only declared a settled pre-existing rule of
jurisprudence in that State. The result in this case would
have been necessarily the same if the constitution had not
contained the provision in question. This brings the case
within the authority of Bethell v. Demaret.t Upon such a
state of facts this court 'cannot take jurisdiction under the
section of the Judiciary Act upon which the writ of error
is founded. The motion must, therefore, be sustained, and
the case
DIsmISSEm.

Hunley et al. v. Scott, 19 Louisiana Annual, 161 ; King v. Huston,
Hubbell & Co., lb. 288; :McCracken v. Poole, Tb. 359; Norton v. Dawson
et al., lb. 464.
t 10 Wallace, 537.

VOL. XIIL

