INSURANCE

COMPANY V. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

which we are now referring, together with the fact that the
judge died in 1844, three years after the expiration of the
first term of the copyright. On this it is said, with some
emphasis,* "that he had all this time acquiesced in the claim
of the assignee." The decree was that the contract be reformed accordingly.
In the case now before us the construction contended for
by the appellants was, for the first time, urged by letter of
Mr. Paige, 18th January, 1858, addressed to the appellees,
who replied oil 3d February following, asserting their absolute right of ownership, with an unlimited license to publish
and sell. The parties lived together after this in the same
State until 31st March, 1868, when Paige died, a period of
ten years, during which no further notice was ever taken of
this subject, and no attempt by Paige, by act or protest, to
interfere with the exercise of the right of the appellees to
publish and sell. It is difficult to account for this long acquiescence upon any assumption that Paige, after the receipt
of the reply to the publishers, had faith in the construction
now urged. If this agreement needed any extraneous aid
to indicate the intention of the parties, this acquiescence
would certainly be persuasive of the view we have taken of it.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. BAILEY.
Although equity have power to order the delivery up and cancellation of a
policy of insurance obtained on fraudulent representations and suppressions of facts, yet it will not generally do so, when these representations
and suppressions can be perfectly well used as a defence at law in a suit
upon the policy. Hence a bill for such a delivery up and cancellation
was held properly "dismissed, without prejudice," though the evidences
of the fraud were considerable, there being no allegation that the holder
of the policy meant to assign it; and suit on the policy having after the
bill was filed been begun at law.

from the Supreme Court of the District.
The Phicnix Mutual Life Insurance Company filed a bill
APPEAL

* 24 Howard's Practice Cases, 72.

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANC I COMPANY V. BAILEY.

617

Statement of the case.

against Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey, widow of Albert Bailey, to
compel the cancellation of two policies of insurance issued
by that company upon the life of the said Albert, on the
12th of June and 15th of July, 1867, respectively.
The grounds of the bill were that the policies had been
procured by the defendant by fraudulent suppression of
certain material facts, and the misrepresentation of other
ones of the same class. The answer denied the allegations
made.
Evidence was given tending to show that the defendant,
then bearing the name of Mrs. Von Kammecher, after a
husband from whom she had been divorced, went, on the
10th June, 1867, to the office of the insurance company to
have Mr. Bailey's life insured; the insurance being in
Bailey's own favor, he representing himself as unmarried.
Bailey being required, in the usual form, to name an intimate friend who could answer as to his health, referred to
Mrs. Von Kammecher, in whose house he was then boarding, and who accordingly signed a certificate that he was in
good health and of temperate habits. A policy was accordingly made out to Bailey for $4000. Nine days afterwards,
that is to say, on the 19th June, 1867, the same lady called
at the office and requested that the policy should issue to her
as the wife of Bailey and should be increased to $6000. The
policy was thus made, and was dated as of the 12th June,
1867, the date intended for the other. An additional policy
was made for $4000 on the 15th 'July, 1867. Bailey and
Mrs. Von Kammecher were married June 22d, 1867, and
.Bailey died October 11th following, of phthisis pulmonalis.
Evidence was also given tending to show that Bailey had
been under treatment from February till May, 1867, was
told that his lungs were diseased, and that he "must strenuously take care of himself;" and, moreover, that Mrs. Von
Kammecher knew this, and had been told that Mr. Bailey
"might live two years or not more than six months;" and
that she had been herself principally if not solely instrumental in procuring the policies. Evidence was also given
tending to show that Bailey's habits were not temperate.

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

On the other hand evidence was given tending to a contrary conclusion, but it did not perhaps establish it.
It was not alleged in the bill, nor was there evidence
given to show that Mrs. Bailey had attempted to assign or
that she was about to dispose of the policies. The averment
of the bill was that Mrs. Bailey, insisting upon the obligation
of the company under the policies, "demanded the $10,000,
and threatened to bring an action at law to recover the same,
and by such suit to harass and injure the company." But,
on the other hand, it appeared that after the bill had been
filed, suit was brought at law on the policies; so that the
company could now set up the fraud alleged.
The court below dismissed the bill without prejudice.
Messrs. Carlisle,McPherson, and IV.S. Cox, for the appellant:
The jurisdiction of courts of equity to compel the cancellation of agreements obtained through false and fraudulent
representations is well established, and insurance cases are
peculiarly within the jurisdiction. The facts show a clear
case of fraud.
-BMessrs. V.. -D. Davidge and R. B. Washington, contra:
There is a complete defence at law in favor of the insurance company, if the allegations of the bill are true, and it
is sued. If not sued no injury is done to it. The issues
of fact raised in the cause are peculiarly suited for the deterruination of a jury; and even if a court of equity has discretion
to entertain the case, which we do not deny, that discretion
should not be exercised.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Policies of life insurance are governed, in some respects,
by different rules of construction from those applied by the
courts in case of policies against marine risks or policies
against loss by fire.
Marine and fire policies are contracts of indemnity, by
which the claim of the insured is commensurate with the
damages he sustained by the loss of, or injury to, the prop-

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. BAILEY.

619

Opinion of the court.

erty insured. Such being the nature of the contract, it is
clear that an absolute sale of the property insured, prior to
the alleged disaster, is a good defence to an action on the
policy, as the insured cannot justly claim indemnity for the
loss of, or injury to, property in which he had no insurable
interest at the time the loss or injury occurred.
Life insurances have sometimes been construed in the
same way, but the better opinion is that the decided cases
which proceed upon the ground that the insured must necessarily have some pecuniary interest in the life of the cestui
qui vie are founded in an erroneous view of the nature of the
contract, that the contract of life insurance is not necessarily
one merely of indemnity for a pecuniary loss, as in marine
and fire policies, that it is sufficient to show that the policy
is not invalid as a wager policy, if it appear that the relation,
whether of consanguinity or of affinity, was such, between
the person whose life was insured and the beneficiary named
in the policy, as warrants the conclusion that the beneficiary
had an interest, whether pecuniary or arising from dependence or natural affection, in the life of the person insured.*
Insurers in such a policy contract to pay a certain sum, in
the event therein specified, in consideration of the payment
of the stipulated premium or premiums, and it is enough to
entitle the insured to recover if it appear that the stipulated
event has happened, and that the party effecting the policy
had an insurable interest, such as is described, in the life of
the person insured at the inception of the contract, as the
contract is not merely for an indemnity, as in marine and
fire policies.
Two policies for insurance upon the life of Albert Bailey,
the husband of the appellee, were issued by the appellants,
and made payable to the appellee in ninety days after due
notice and proof of the death of the husband. He died on
the eleventh of October following, and due notice of that
.lalby v. The India and London Ins. Co., 15 C. B. 365; Loomis v.
Eagle Life and Health Ins. Co., 6 Gray, 396; Lord v. Dall, 12 Massachusetts,
118; Trenton Life and Fire Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 4 Zab. 576; Rawls v.
American Life Ins. Co., 36 Barbour, 357; S. C., 27 W. Y. 282.

INSURANCE

COMPANY v.

BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

event was given to the appellants by the appellee, to whom
the sums insured, amounting to ten thousand dollars, were
payable, but they refused to pay the same, upon the ground
that the policies were obtained by fraudulent misrepresentations and by the fraudulent suppression of material facts.
They not only refused to pay the sums insured, but instituted
the present suit in equity to enjoin the appellee from assigning or in any manner disposing of the policies, and also
prayed that she might be compelled by the decree of the
court to deliver up the policies to be cancelled, and for further relief. Process was issued and served and the respondent appeared and answered, denying all the charges
set forth in the bill of complaint, and alleging that the complainants were bound to pay her the entire sums insured in
the respective policies. Proofs were taken on both sides,
and the cause having been duly transferred to the general
term, the parties proceeded to final hearing, and the Supreme
Court of the District entered a decree dismissing the bill of
complaint with costs, but without prejudice, and the com.
plainants appealed to this court.
Fraudulent misrepresentations and the frandulent suppression of material facts are the principal grounds alleged
for the relief prayed in the bill of complaint, and it must be
conceded that the proofs introduced by the complainants
tend strongly to support the allegations which contain those
charges. Those allegations in the bill of complaint are denied in the answer, and the respondent has introduced proofs
in support of those denials, but it is not going too far to say
that the weight of the evidence, as exhibited in the record,
is adverse to the pretensions of the respondent, nor does it
appear that any different views were entertained by the subordinate court. Grant all that, and still it does not follow
that the decree in the court below is erroneous, as the bill
of complaint may well have been dismissed upon grounds
wholly disconnected from the merits of the controversy.
Suits in equity, the Judiciary Act provides, shall not be
sustained in either of the courts of the United States in any
case where plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE ComPANY v. BAILEY.

621

Opinion of the court.

had at law, and the same rule is applicable where the suit is
prosecuted in the Chancery Court of this District.*
Much consideration was given to the construction of that
section of the Judiciary Act in the case first referred to, and
also to the question whether a paity seeking to enforce a
legal right could resort to equity in the first instance in a
controversy where his remedy at law is complete, and the
court, without hesitation, came to the conclusion that he

could not, if his remedy at law was as practical and as
efficient to the ends of justice and its prompt administration
as the remedy in equity.
Most of the leading authorities were carefully examined
on the occasion and the court came to the following conclusion, which appears to be correct: That whenever a court
of law in such a case is competent to take cognizance of a
right and has power to proceed to a judgment which affords"
a plain, adequate, and complete remedy, without the aid of
a court of equity, the plaintiff must in general proceed at
law, because the defendant, under such circumstances, has a
right to a trial by j ury.t
Exceptions undoubtedly exist to that rule, of which there
are many to be found in the reports of judicial decisions, and
in which preventive relief was administered by injunction.
Such relief is granted to prevent irreparable injury or a multiplicity of suits, or where the injury is of such a nature that
it cannot be adequately compensated by damages at law, or
is such, as, from its continuance or permanent mischief, must
occasion constantly recurring grievance, which cannot be
removed or corrected otherwise than by such a preventive
remedy.
Authorities to show that equity will interfere to restrain
irreparable mischief, or to suppress oppressive and intermin" Hipp v. Babin, 19 Howard, 271; Parker v. Lake Co., 2 Black, 545;
Boyce Executors v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 210; Graves v. Ins. Co., 2 Cranch,
444; 1 Stat. at Large, 82.
t Foley v. Hill, 1 Philips, 399; S. C., 2 House of Lords Cases, 28; Fire
Ins. Co. v. Delavan, 8 Paige's Chancery, 422; Alexander V. Muirhead, 2 Dessausure, 162; 5 American Law Register, 664.

INSURANCE COMPANY

V. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

able litigation, or to prevent multiplicity of suits, is unnecessary, as that proposition is universally admitted.
Jurisdiction may also be exercised by courts of equity to
rescind written instruments in cases where they have been
procured by false representations or by the fraudulent suppression of the truth, if it appear that the rescission of the
same is essential to protect the opposite party from pecuniary
injury. Equity will rescind or enjoin such instruments where
they operate as a cloud upon the title of the opposite party,
or where the instruments are of a character that the vice in
the inception of the same would be unavailing as a defence
by the injured party if the instruments were transferred for
value into the hands of an innocent holder. Title-deeds
fraudulently procured may, under such circumstances, be
decreed to be cancelled or reformed, as the case may be,
and bills of exchange or promissory notes may be enjoined
and practically divested of their negotiable quality.
Such jurisdiction also extends to the protection of letterspatent against infringement, and is exercised in many cases
to prevent waste, and for many other judicial purposes, but
the rule in the Federal courts is universal, that if the defendant has a good defence at law, and the remedy at law is as
perfect and complete as the remedy in equity, an inj unction
will not be granted.
Whether the remedy sought in this case would have been
available if the suit bad been instituted before the death of
the person whose life was insured it is not necessary to determine, as no such question is involved in the record. Suffice it to say upon that topic that the complainant has not
referred the court to any decided case which supports the
affirmative even of that inquiry, but the difficulty in the way
to such a conclusion in the case before the court is much
greater, as by the death of the cestui que vie the obligation to
pay, as expressed in the policies, became fixed and absolute,
subject only to the condition to give notice and furnish proof
of that event within ninety days. Notice having been given
and the required proof furnished, the obligation to pay certainly became fixed by the terms of the policies and the

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. RUSSELL.
Syllabus.

sums insured became a purely legal demand, and if so, it is
difficult to see what remedy, more nearly perfect and complete, the appellants can have than is afforded them by their
right to make defence at law, which secures to them the
right ff trial by jury.*
Wheie a party, if his theory of the controversy is correct,
has a good defence at law to "a purely legal demand," he
should be left to that means of defence, as he has no occasion
to resort to a court of equity for relief, unless he is prepared
to allege and prove some special circumstances to show that
he may suffer irreparable injury if he is denied a preventive
remedy. Nothing of the kind is to be apprehended in this
case, as the contracts, embodied in the policies, are to pay
certain definite sums of money, and the record shows that
an action at law has been commenced by the insured to recover the amounts, and that the action is now pending in the
court whose decree is under re-examination
Courts of equity unquestionably havejurisdiction of fraud,
misrepresentation, and fraudulent suppression of material
facts in matters of contract, but where the cause of action is
"a purely legal demand," and nothing appears to show that
-the defence at law may not be as perfect and complete as in
equity, a suit in equity will not be sustained in a Federal
court, as it is clear that the case, under such circumstances,
is controlled by the sixteenth section of the Judiciary Act.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. RuSSELL.
1. Where the government, in emergencies, takes private property into its
use, a contract to reimburse the owner is implied.
2. The United States having, under a military emergency, during the rebellion, taken into its service certain already officered and manned steamers
* Foley v. Hill, 2 House of Lords Cases, 45; Thrale v. Ross, 3 Brown's
Chancery Cases, 56; Arundel v. Holmes, 4 Beavan, 326; Norris v. Day, 4
Young & Collyer, 475.

