GAY's

GOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

GAY's GOLD.
1. The treasury regulation, No. 22, forbidding all transportation of coin or
bullion to any State or section declared by the Presiden;'s proclamation
to be in insurrection, was valid, and was authorized by the act of May
20th, 1862.
2. Gold coin in packages, and not used for travelling expenses, was merchandise in 1864, in point of fact, and was within the mischief to be
remedied by the non-intercourse acts of July 13th, 1861, and May 20th,
1862.
3. The proclamation of pardon and amnesty of President Johnson, of December 25th, 1868, was limited to persons " who participated in the late
insurrection or rebellion," and to the offence of "tre a son against the
United States, or adhering to their enemies during the late civil war."
4. It did not, therefore, restore to a person not engaged in the insurrection
property forfeited under the non-intercourse laws, although the property remained in court, in proceedings not concluded when the proclamation was issued.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case being this:
By a non-intercourse act of July 13th, 1861, it was declared that "all goods, and chattels, wares, and merchandise," coming from a State proclaimed by the President in
insurrection, into other parts of the United States, should
be forfeited.
The 3d section of an act of May 20th, 1862,* supplementary to the act of July 13th, 1861, just mentioned, enacted
as follows:
"That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and be is hereby
further empowered to prohibit and prevent the transportation
in any vessel, &c., within the United States, of any goods, wares,
or merchandise of whatever character, and whatever may be the
ostensible destination of the same, in all cases where there shall
be satisfactory reasons to believe that such goods, wares, or
merchandise are intended for any place in the possession or
under the control of insurgents against the United States; . . .
and he may establish all such general or special regulations as
* 12 Stat. at Large, 404.

Dec. 1871.]

DA'S GOLD.
Statement of the case.

may be necessary or proper to carry into effect the purposes of
this act; and if 'any goods, wares, or merchandise shall be
transported in violation of this act, or of any regulation of the
Secretary of the Treasury, established in pursuance thereof, or
if any attempt shall be made so to transport them, all goods,
wares, or merchandise so transported, or attempted to be transported, shall be forfeited to the United States."
By authority of the section thus above quoted, the Secretary of the Treasury, on the 11th of September, 1863, established, with the approval of the President, certain "Trade
Regulations," by the 22d of which all transportation of coin
or bullion to any State or section in insurrection was absolutely prohibited, except for military purposes, and under
military orders, or under the special license of the President,
On the 25th of December, 1868, President Johnson issued
a? proclamation granting,
"Unconditionally, and without reservation, to all and every
person who directly or indirectly participated in the late insur.rection or rebellion, a full pardon and amnesty for the offence
of treason against the United States, or of adhering to their
enemies during the late civil war, with restoration of all rights,
privileges, and immunities under the Constitution, and the laws
which have been made in pursuance thereof."
With the acts and regulations already mentioned in force,
one Denison, special treasury agent, seized, in March, 1864,
a package of gold coin, amounting to $5000, on board a
steamer then lying at New Orleans, about to go up the river,
and caused the gold to be libelled in the District Court, on
the ground that it was being transported into a section of
the country under the control of the rebels, in violation of
the acts of non-intercourse, and of the Trade Regulations
already referred to,
A claim was entered for the gold, on behalf of one Gay,
by a certain Edwards, who made the necessary claimant's
oath, denying in general terms that the gold was forfeited.
Gay was a merchant and planter, domiciled within the

GAY's GOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the forfeiture.

Federal lines in Louisiana.
ie asserted himself to be a
loyal citizen, and his technical loyalty was not denied.
The evidence showed that Edwards delivered the gold on
board the vessel to one Freeman, and Edwards and Freeman
were the main witnesses on behalf of claimant. Edwards
testified that he delivered the gold to Freeman to be carried
to Gay, who resided within the Federal lines, though near
to the region declared by the proclamation of the President
to be in insurrection.
Freeman seemed to have been an agent of Gay for the
purchase of cotton, buying without regard to its location
within rebel lines, and delivering it at New Orleans to Edwards, who was Gay's broker. ie denied that there was
any intent to use this special package of gold fb that purpose, and said that he was to deliver it to Gay as directed
by Edwards. Being asked on his examination where Mr.
Gay got his cotton, the counsel of the claimant objected to
the question as irrelevant, and told the witness not to answer; and he accordingly refused to answer; he also refused
under like instructions to answer other questions, and when
asked if he, the witness, had not said-as one witness in the
case, N. B. La Pointe, swore positively that he had said to
him-" that he was carrying the gold into the Confederacy
to buy cotton with," answered that lie " could not have told
such a d-d lie, as the gold did not belong to him, and only
took it as matter of accommodation to Mr. Gay." Freeman was apparently a man with no fixed occupation, having
a room at the corner of Circus and Gravier Streets, in New
Orleans, when he was in that city.
The District Court, on the 29th of April, 1870, dismissed
the libel, and ordered the gold to be restored. The Circuit
Court reversed the decree and condemned it. From this
latter decree the claimant appealed.
Mr. B. T. Merrick, for the appellant:
1. There is really no proof that this money was intended
for any place under the control of the insurgents. La
Pointe's testimony is directly contradicted by Freeman.

Dee. 1871.]

GAY'S

GOLD.

Opinion of the court.

2. But even if the money was thus intended to be used,
the case is not within either of the non-intercourse acts.
Acts visiting persons with forfeiture are to be construed
strictly. Now money is neither goods, wares, merchandise,
or chattels.* Tomlin, citing 8th IReports,t and the old but
good book Termes de la Ley,t thus says:
"]Money bath been accounted not to be goods or chattels; nor
are hares or hounds, such being ferw naturce."
3. But if neither of the preceding positions can be sustained, still at the time of the trial, the supposed offence of
the claimant had been fully obliterated by the amnesty proclamation of December 25th, 1868, and there was no ground
for the confiscation of the claimant's property, at the date
of the trial and final decree in 1870.
31r. C. EI. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts disclosed by the claimant's witness, Edwards,
his manner of testifying, his relations with the forbidden
traffic, and with Gay, leave little room to doubt that, whether
the gold was intended to reach Gay's manual possession or
not, it was destined to be used in purchasing cotton in the
insurrectionary district. It is conceded that Gay was not a
rebel, and was, technically at least, a loyal man. He could
easily have come to New Orleans and made oath to his claim
for the money, and given his own testimony as to the destination of the gold. It is probable that he, or he and Freeman, alone could have sworn knowingly on that subject, and
his total silence is significant. Other testimony confirms
the inference arising from these facts. We are of opinion
that the Circuit Court, which heard the case on appeal, was
right in holding that the gold was being transported to a
place within the rebel lines.
The question is raised whether gold was within the mean* Law Dictionary, verbo 11

h a t t el s . "

1

tPage 33.

$ Page 103.

GAY'S

GOLD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing of the act of Congress prohibiting the "transportation
of goods, wares, or merchandise intended for any place in
the possession or under the control of insurgents against the
United States."
The 22d Treasury Regulation on this subject expressly
forbids all transportation of coin or bullion to any State or
section declared to be in insurrection, except for military
purposes, under military orders, or under special license
f'om the President; and the question is, was the regulation
authorized by the statute?
The words "goods, wares, and merchandise of whatever
character," used in the act of 1862, undoubtedly have the
same meaning as the words "goods and chattels, wares and
merchandise," in the act of 1861. The word chattel, in its ordinary signification, includes every species of property which
is not real estate or freehold,* and the words goods, wares,
and merchandise are undoubtedly used in this statute to express the same meaning. But if there could under ordinary
circumstances be any doubt on this subject, it is a well-known
fact, of which this court can surely take cognizance, that in
1864 gold coin was an article of merchandise, and as such
was bought and sold at fluctuating prices, and was the object
of a large and active traffic. It would be folly to say that
the court could not take notice of what all the world besides
knew very well; and we must, therefore, hold that gold coin
in package, carried from one person to another, and not
used for paying travelling expenses, when intended for an
insurrectionary district, was withiu the prohibition of both
the statutes we have cited, as it was beyond doubt within
the mischief intended to be prevented.
Some suggestion is made that the final proclamation of
amnesty and pardon of the President, of December 25th,
1868, restores to claimant the right of property in this gold,
if it had ever been forfeited. But general as the terms of
that proclamation are, it is by those terms limited to persons
who "participated in the late insurrection or rebellion," and
2 Kent, 342.

Dec. 1871.]

ROBINSON V. UNITED STATES.

36$,

Statement of the case.

the offences which are pardoned are declared to be "1treason
against the United States' or adhering to their enemies during the late civil war." As there is no pretence that Gay,
the claimant, was one of the persons thus described, or was
guilty of, or charged with, the offence which was pardoned,
the proclamation can have no application to him or to the
present case.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED.

ROBINSON V. UNITED STATES.
1. "Where a party agreed to deliver so many bushels of "first quality clear
barley," the contract not stating whether the barley was to be delivered
in sacks or in bulk, i. e., loose, held that evidence was properly received
to show a usage of trade to delivei in sacks; such evidence tending not
to contradict the agreement, but only to give it precision on an important point where by its terms it had been left undefined.
2. There is no rule, in the nature of a rule of law, that a usage cannot be
established by a single witness.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;

the case. being thus:
In June, 1867, Robinson & Co., merchants of San Francisco, entered into a written agreement with Major T. T.
-Hoyt, assistant quartermaster of the United States, "to deliver," on his order, "1,000,000 bushels of first quality clear
barley." The barley, according to the terms expressed in
the contract, was to be delivered between the 1st of July,
1867, and the 30th June, 1868, at such times and in such
quantities as might be required, for the use of the government troops, and at certain posts named; the precise points
at those posts to be designated by the acting quartermasters
at the posts themselves. But there was no specification in
the instrument of any particular manner in which the barley
was to be delivered, as whether in sacks or loose, and in
what is known as "bulk."
Under this contract Robinson & Co. delivered, in sacks, all

