]RicE v.

IousToIN.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

RicE V. HOUSTON, ADMINISTRATOR.
A citizen of one State getting letters of administration on the estate of a
decedent there, its citizen also, and afterwards removing to another
State, and becoming a citizen of it, may sue in the Circuit Court of the
first State, there being nothing in the laws of that State forbidding an
administrator to remove from the State.

EltRoI to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee; the case being thus:
A. W. Vanleer, a citizen of Tennessee, having died at
Kashville, letters of administration were granted by the
proper authority there to one Houston, on his estate. It
seemed to be admitted by counsel that, at this time, Houston was a citizen of Tennessee. But he afterwards, it was
equally admitted, was in Kentucky and domiciled there.
Thus domiciled he brought two suits in the court below,
the Circuit Court for the Mliddle District of Tennessee, to
recover from Rice on certain notes given to his decedent,
Vanleer. In these suits lie described himself in his narr.
as "a. citizen of the State of Kentucky and administrator
of the estate of A. W. Vanleer, deceased." The defendant
craved oyer of the letters. This disclosing that the letters
were granted in Tennessee, the defendant pleaded that " by
the said letters of administration it appears that the administrator of the estate of the said A. NW. Vanleer is the creature of the law of Tennessee, and has no existence as such
outside of the State of Tennessee." To this plea the plaintiff demurred, and the demurrer being held good and judgment given for the plaintiff, the defendant brought the case
here. The point involved was of course the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court.
Mr. R. A. 6-awford, for the pladn iff in error:
Of course the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction between
citizens of the same State. But here Houston was the domestic administrator, and in point of fact, it will be con-

Dec. 1871.]

RICE V.

HOUSTON.

Opinion of the court.

ceded, though not so asserted in the record, a citizen of
Tennessee, when he got his letters; he having afterwards
removed to Kentucky. Independently of this, since, personally, he is a stranger to the suit, his personal domicil in
Kentucky cannot be looked to. By his letters, he represented the sovereignty of Tennessee, regardless of personal
alienship.
Messrs.

. B. Fogg and H. Maynard, contra.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The questioni of jurisdiction is the only point in the case.
Although in controversies between citizens of different
States, it is the character of the real and not that of the
nominal parties to the record which determines the question
ofjurisdiction, yet it has been repeatedly held by this court
that suits can be maintained in the Circuit Court by executors or administrators if they are citizens of a different State
from the party sued, on the ground that they are the real
parties in interest, and succeed to all the rights of the testator or intestate by operation of law. And it makes no difference that the testator or intestate was a citizen of the
same State with the defendants, and could not, if alive, have
sued in the Federal courts; nor is the status of the parties
afficted by the fact that the creditors and legatees of the
decedent are citizens of the same State with the defendants.*
In this state of the law on this subject, it is not perceived
on what ground the right of Houston to maintain these suits
can be questioned. He was a citizen of Kentucky, had the
legal interest in the notes sued on, by virtue of the authority
conferred on him by the court in Tennessee, and, therefore,
had a right to bring his action in the Federal or State courts
at his option.
It is to be presumed, in the absence of an averment in
- Chappedelaine v. Dechenaux, 4 Cranch, 306, 307; Browne et al. v.
Strode, 6 Id. 303; Childress's Ex. v. Emory ct al., 8 Wheaton, 669; Osborn
v. Bank of the United States, 9 Id. 856 - McNutt v. Bland et al., 2 Howard,
15; Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Peters, 298; Huff v. Hutchinson, 14 Howard, 586;
Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wallace, 172.

CURTIS V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the pleadings to the contrary, that Houston, when appointed
administrator, was a citizen of Kentucky, and if so the appointment was legal, for the laws of Tennessee do not forbid
the probate courts of that State to intrust a citizen of another State with the duties of administering on the estate
of a person domiciled at the time of his death in Tennessee.
But if the fact be otherwise, as seems to be admitted in
argument, and Houston were a citizen of Tennessee at the
time he got his letters of administration, the liability of the
defendants to be sued in the Federal courts remains the
same, because there is no statute of Tennessee requiring an
administrator not to remove from the State, and the general
law of the land allows any one to change his citizenship at
his pleasure. After he has in good faith changed it, he has
the privilege of going into the United States courts for the
collection of debts due him by citizens of other States,
whether he holds the debts in his own right or as administrator.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

CURTIS V. WHITNEY.
1. A statute does not necessarily impair the obligation of a contract because
it may affect it retrospectively, or because it enhances the difficulty of
performance to one party or diminishes the value of the performance to
the other, provided that it leaves the obligation of performance in full
force.
2. A statute which requires the holder of a tax certificate made before its
passage to give notice to an occupant of the land, if there be one, before
he takes his tax-deed, does not impair the obligation of the contract evidenced by the certificate.

ERRolt to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin; the case
being thus:
Mary Curtis brought suit under a statute of Wisconsin to
have her title to a certain piece of land, which she claimed
under a deed made on a sale for taxes, established and quieted as against the defendants.

