MASON V.

ROLLINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

MASON V.

IROLLINS ET AL.

Three appeals in equity against collectors and the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue dismissed, the pleadings not showing the citizenship required
by the Judiciary Act; and the bills having been all filed subsequently
to the 13th July, 1866, when the act of 1833, which gave jurisdiction to
the courts of the United States of suits under the Internal Revenue
Acts against collectors and others, without regard to citizenship, was
repealed.

MOTION by Mr. 0. I.

Bill, Assistant Attorney-General (M11r.

Eddward .Roby, opposing), to dismiss three appeals from the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois; the appeals being from decrees in equity dismissing the cases for
want of jurisdiction.
The first bill described the complainant as a citizen of the
State of Illinois, and one defendant (Rollins) as of the Disand
trict of Columbia, and a citizen of the State of -,
other defendants (Allen and Ferguson) as citizens of the
State of Illinois.
The second bill described the plaintiff as a citizen of the
State of Illinois, and three defendants (Mann, Allen, and
Ferguson) as citizens of the State of Illinois, and one defendant (Delano) as Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
without aVerring that he was a citizen of any State.
The third bill described the plaintiff as a citizen of the
State of Illinois, and did not aver that any of the defendants
were citizens of any other State.
All the bills were filed subsequently to the 13th July, 1866,
when the act of 1833, which gave jurisdiction to the courts
of the United States of suits under the Internal Revenue Acts
against collectors and others, without regard to citizenship,
was repealed.*
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is manifest that the averments of citizenship in neither
* Insurance Co. v. Ritehie, 5 Wallace, 544; 13 Stat. at Large, 241; 14
Id. 172.

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. BARTON.

608

Statement of the case in the opinion.

of the bills are sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction under the Judiciary Act of 1789; and all were filed
subsequent to the 18th of July, 1866.
When these suits were brought, therefore, there was no
act in force giving jurisdiction, in cases such as those made
by the records, to the courts of the United States. The
Circuit Court was obliged, therefore, to dismiss the bill in
each case for want of jurisdiction, and the judgment of that
court in the several cases must be
AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. BARTON.
The grantin&or refusing to grant a motion for a new trial resting wholly in
the discretion of the court where it is made, the action of such court is
not ground for error.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.

Mr. 21 . Carpenter,for the plaintiff in erior; Mr. F. A.
-Dick, contra.,
Mr. Justice SWAYKE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The suit was brought by Barton upon a policy of insurance. Upon looking into the record we find that the case
was tried by a jury; that evidence was adduced by both
parties; that the court instructed the jury, and that they
found a verdict for the plaintiff, upon which judgment was
duly entered. All this was done without any exception
being taken by the defendant. The assurers then moved
the court to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial upon
the following grounds:
That the verdict was against the evidence; that it was
against the law and the instructions of the court; because
the verdict was uncertain and insufficient. The court over-

