Dec. 1871.]

CHEW

v.

BRUMAGEN.

Statement of the case.

in that.case confers the legal title, and admits of no averment to the contrary, the patentee may be subjected in
equity to any just claim of a third party, even to the extent
of holding the title for his sole use. The grounds of equitable jurisdiction in such cases are stated in the opinion of
this court in the recent case of Johnson v. Towsley.*
The action of ejectment in this case cannot be maintained.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

QEEW

v.

BRUMAGEN.

1. The assignee of a bond and mortgage who by the terms of the assignment
holds it as collateral security for the payment of another debt, may
under the 111th and 113th sections of the New York Code of Procedure
sue, without making his assignor a party to the suit.
2. And if on such a suit, the debtor seek to recoup a certain amount from
the mortgage debt, and judgment goes accordingly for less than the
amount of the same, the original assignor cannot bring suit for any
balance. He is concluded by the former proceeding.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of lNew Jersey; the case
being thus:
The Code of Procedure of the State of New York enacts
by its 111th section that:
"Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section 113."

The exception of this 113th section is that:
"An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,or
a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted."
And by the same section:
"A trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this
* Supra, p. 72.
VOL. XIII.

82

498

CHEW

v. BRUMAGEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in
whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another."
Other sections of the code make provisions which may be
referred to. Thus, the 117th enacts that:
"All persons having an interest in the subject-matter of the
controversy, may be joined as plaintiffs."
The 118th that:
"Any person may be a defendant who has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a
necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of
the question involved therein."

The 119th enacts that:
"Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must join as plaintiffs or defendants, but if the consent of any

one who should have joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he
may be made a defendant."
This Code of Procedure being the law of New York, a
certain Walker sold to one Chew a farm in New Jersey,
taking Chew's bond for $3500, and a mortgage on the farm
sold.
Soon after the bond was given Walker, the obligee, assigned the bond and mortgage to one Wood, as collateral
security for the payment of $1700, and afterwards by another
instrument of writing declared that the assignee held them
as collateral security for the payment of $200 more. Wood,
having thus become the assignee, brought suit on the bond
in the Supreme Court of New York in 1853, against Chew,
the obligor, and joined Walker as a defendant, he having
refused to join as plaintiff; but process was not served upon
Walker, nor did he appear. After his death, which occurred
before the trial, on affidavit of his administratrix that he
had died, the court ordered that the action should be continued against her as administratrix, but it did not appear
that the order was ever served upon her. Chew, however,
pleaded fraud in the sale of the farm, and claimed to recoup
the damages he had sustained in coDsequence of the fraud,

Dec. 1871.]

CHEW V.

BRuM AGEN.

,499

Argument for the obligee.

and the case went to trial upon the issue tendered by this
plea. On the trial, the jury found for Wood the sum of
$2091, for which judgment was given, and which Chew immediately paid.
Pending the suit, however, Wood assigned the bond and
mortgage to one Braisted, and, two days after the judgment
which had been recovered was paid, Braisted and Walker's
administratrix joined in assigning them to a certain Brumagen. A bill was then filed in chancery in New Jersey, at
the suit of Brumagen, seeking to foreclose the mortgage,
and Chew's administratrix set up in defence the suit in the
Supreme Court of New York, the judgment therein and the
payment of the judgment; asserting that the debt which
the mortgage was given to secure was thereby satisfied, and
consequently that the mortgage, which was only a security
for the debt, had also been satisfied. But it was decided by
the chancellor that the judgment in the Supreme Court of
New York was no defence to the bill, beyond the amount
actually recovered by Wood and paid to him; that inasmuch
as neither Walker nor his administratrix were served with
process in that suit, or appeared therein, the assignee was
not concluded by the judgment, and the ruling of the chancellor was affirmed in the Court of Errors and Appeals.
From that decree the case was brought here.
JMr. . H. Reynolds, for the plaintiff in error:
The courts below held that the judgment in New York,
between Wood and Chew, was inconclusive, because neither
Walker nor his legal representative was in fact a party, and
because under the law of New York, in order to conclude the
rights of Walker or his estate by the judgment, he or his
representative should have been brought in as a party. This
was error. The expression 'real party in interest," as used
in the code,'had long been well known and understood in
equity courts, both in England and Amelica, and it meant
and intended the party in whom the entire title, whether
legal or equitable, was vested, as contradistinguished from a
nominal party.

CHEW

v.

BRUMAGEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the obligor.

Assuming then, that the judgment in Wood v. Chew, was
conclusive and binding upon the personal representative of
Walker, and his assigns, it merged the entire bond and the
mortgage as collateral to it in the judgment, and the payment of the judgment has extinguished the debt. The suit
was to recover the entire sum, principal and interest.
Chew, the defendant, set up a defence which as he asserted authorized him to recoup damages by reason of the
fraud in the inception of the bond to its entire amount.
Upon these issues the case was tried.
By the judgment he was permitted to recoup to an amount
less than the whole, and the plaintiff took judgment for the
remainder.
Mr. E. T. Green, contra:
The whole effect of the judgment in New York on the
bond secured by the mortgage, was simply the reduction,
pro tanlo, of the amount due upon the bond, and Chew's
estate has the right to look to the security for the balance.
It is a settled principle that to make a judgment binding
and efective, the court must have jurisdiction over both the
cause and all the necessary parties thereto, over the parties
and things to be affected.*
Who were, then, the necessary parties to this suit in New
York upon the bond, so that a judgment obtained there
should be binding and conclusive ? Wood was interested
in the bond to the extent of $1900, it having been assigned
to hini as collateral security for that amount. Walker was
interested in the same bond to the extent of $1600, that
being the amount due to him after the satisfaction of the
debt for which it was held by Wood as collateral, and Chew
was interested in the bond to the extent of $8500, for that
was the amount which he had bound himself to pay to
Walker. It is apparent, therefore, that Wood, Walker, and
Chew were the real parties in interest.
Now, the Code of Procedure of the State of New York
requires that all parties in interest must be before the court
* M.oulin v. Insurance Company, 4 Zabriskie, 222.

Dec.1871.]

CHEW V. BRUMAGEN.
Opinion of the court.

to perfect an adjudication. But if the person holding the
legal title is the only real party in interest under the 111th
section-which is in fact the argument of the other sideit was not necessary to enact that "an executor or administrator, or a trustee of an express trust," might sue, without
joining those beneficially interested. A "trustee of an express trust," without doubt, has the legal title to a chose in
action, held for his cestui que trust. If so, construing the section as the plaintiff does, he can sue in his own name as the
real party in interest, and the 113th section becomes a nullity. So, too, with executors; they have the legal title, but
not the beneficial interest. If they could maintain an action
in their own name under the 111th section as the "real parties in interest," why enact the 113th section? It would
have no other purpose than to confer on them a right and
power which they already possessed. To give this construction to the term "real party in interest," must necessarily
be violated a plain rule of statutory construction, by depriving an express exception of all meaning and, purpose whatever. In fact, the effect of this construction would be to
exclude from the operation of the 111th section those who
had the "beneficial interest," and to include those only who
held the "legal title." And this is absurd.
What, then, was the design contemplated by the 111th
section? Evidently to establish a procedure, theretofore
unknown to courts of common law, and to assimilate the
practice in courts of law with respect to parties, with that
which governed in courts of equity.
It would be strange, if one holding a bond as collateral
security for one-half its amount, could bring suit upon it in
the absence and without -the knowledge of the pledgor, and
by negligence or collusion, permit a defence to one-half the
amount to prevail, on recovering the amount necessary to
pay his own claim.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Confessedly the judgment must have the same effect given
to it in the courts of New Jersey as it has in the State of

CHEW V. BRUMAGEN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

New York, by the laws of that State, and either of the parties to it has, under the Constitution of the United States, a
right to insist that such shall be its operation.
The question, therefore, is what was its effect in the State
of New York?
If, by the assignment to him, Wood, the assignee of the
bond and mortgage, was clothed with the legal interest
therein, and if when he sued, Walker, the assignor, was not
a necessary party to the suit, it is plain the judgment in the
suit determined finally the amount of the debt for which the
bond was given, and neither Walker nor his administratrix,
nor any subsequent assignee of either of them can maintain
that the bond was not wholly extinguished in the judgment.
They were all represented by Wood, and they can claim
only through him. On the other hand, if Walker was a
necessary party to the suit, neither he nor those claiming
under him by subsequent right can be concluded by the
judgment.
By the 111th section of the Code of Procedure in New
York, it was enacted that "every action must be prosecuted
in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided in section 113." The 113th section enacted thus:
"An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,
or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is
prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this section shall be construed to include a person
with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the
benefit of another." Doubtless the object of these provisions
was to change the common-law rule that an action must be
brought in the name of the party who has the legal right,
and to substitute for it the rule in equity, but with considerable enlargement. This is manifest not only in the language
of the statute, but in the construction which has been given
to it by the courts of New York.
Had there been nothing more than the requirement of the
111th section, that every action must be brought in the
name of the real party in interest, it might be that the pre-

Dec. 1871.]

503

CHEW v. BRUMAGEN.
Opinion of the court.

cise rule in equity as to parties might have been intended.
But this cannot be, in view of the other sections. Thus the
117th enacts that all persons having an interest in the subject-matter may be joined as plaintiffs. The 118th enacts
that any person may be a defendant who has or claims an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiffs, or who
is a necessary party to a complete determination and settlement of the questions involved therein. The 119th section
enacts that those united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs
or defendants, unless the consent of one who should have
been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, when he may be
made a defendant. The 113th section we have already
quoted. That, as we have seen, enables a trustee of an express trust to sue in his own name without joining those
who have a beneficial interest. It makes him the representative of the holders of mere equities. Who, then, is a
trustee of an express trust within the meaning of the statute?
It is plain that the law intended to class among such trustees others than those who, in equity, Are regarded as technical trustees. It expressly declares that included among
them shall be persons with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another.
And the judicial decisions of New York have given a liberal interpretation to the description, "trustee of an express
trust," in accordance with the apparent intention of the legislature. Thus, in Cummings v. Morris,* where notes had
been assigned to the plaintiff upon his agreement to give to
the assignor when the notes should be collected the amount
thereof in stock, it was held that the assignee might sue
alon61, and this though the whole beneficial interest was in
tle assignor. In Gonsiderant v. Brisbane,t where a promissory note had been given to the plaintiff, as executive agent
of a firm, it was ruled that he might sue in his own name,
because he was a trustee of an express trust. In St. John v.
The American Life InsuranceComvany,J the plaintiff was the
assignee of two policies of insurance under an agreement
* 25 New York, 625.

t-22 Id. 389.

+ 13 Id. 31.

CHEW v. BRUMAGEN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

that, if one of the policies was paid, he would pay to the
wife of the assignor part of the proceeds thereof, and pay
her all he recovered on the other policy. It was held that
he could sue alone. Lewis v. Graham,* was a case where an
assignment of property bad been made by a debtor in trust
for certain creditors, and the assignee was empowered to
pay them, returning the balance to the assignor; and it was
held that the assignee might bring a suit in his own name,
without joining the ceshd que trusts. In Slocum v. Barry,t
which was an action brought by persons appointed to receive
subscriptions for the Troy University against one who had
signed a general subscription agreement, it was ruled they
were trustees of an express trust, and it was said "no formal
or written agreement is necessary to create a trust in money
or personal estate. Any declaration, however informal,
which evinces the intention of the party with sufficient clearness, will have that effect."I A factor, or other mercantile
agent, who contracts in his own name in behalf of his principal, is a trustee of an express trust within the meaning of
the statute.
These, and other cases which might be cited, show how
liberally the term "trustee of an express trust" has been
construed in order to preserve, measurably, the common-law
rule, that he who has the legal right is the proper plaintiff.
If, now, we turn to the case in hand it will be found not
easy to see why, if Wood was not the real party in interest
when he sued upon the bond, he was not at least a trustee
of an express trust. The assignment of Walker to him,
though expressly stated to be for a collateral security, gave
him the entire legal interest. It enabled him to employ the
entire bond, if necessary, for the payment of the assignor's
debt to him. iHad the assignment been without reference
to the purpose for which it was made, it is not doubted that
the assignee would have been the real party in interest, and
4 Abbott, 106.

t 34 Howard's Practice, 320.

j Cummins v. Barkalow, 4 Keyes, 514; Reed v. Harris, 7 Robertson, 151;

Burbank v. Beach, 15 Barbour, 326; Brown v. Cherry, 38 Howard, 352.

Dec. 1871.]

CHEW V. BRUMAGEN.
Opinion of the court.

as such entitled to sue without joining the assignor, and this
though in fact made as a collateral security. The legal
effect of the transfer cannot be different because the purpose
of it was expressed. It is to be observed that Walker's
assignment was not of part of the bond, making Wood and
Walker joint owners, as was the case in Lewando v. Dunharn,* where the agreement was that the assignor should
have half the judgment. Walker's rights were not concurrent with those of his assignee. They were subordinate.
He had nothing to get until Wood's claim was entirely satisfied. By his assignment he substituted Wood in his place
to demand and receive payment of the bond, and agreed to
look to Wood for what remained after his notes were satisfied. Surely after the assignment he had no right to demand
anything from Chew. How then had he any real interest
in the bond? He had an interest in what Wood might collect by virtue of the bond, but that is a different thing from
an interest in the bond itself. And Wood, by taking the
assignment expressly as a collateral security, undertook to
account to his assignor for the property assigned. He became the holder of the legal right under an express trust to
hold the beneficial interest or the money collected primarily
for himself, and secondarily for his assignor. If faithless to
his trust, if he colluded with the obligor in the bond, he was
responsible to his cestui que trust.
If then, as we think, Wood by the assignment became the
trustee of an express trust, neither Walker nor his personal
representative was a necessary party to the suit which was
brought upon the bond. They were represented by the
trustee, and the judgment which he recovered settled finally
against them, and all claiming under them as well as against
Wood, the amount recoverable. Such, in our opinion, was
the legal effect of the judgment in the State of iNew York.
And the plaintiff in error has a constitutional right to have
the same effect given to it in the State of New Jersey. The
learned court, therefore, erred in decreeing a foreclosure of
*1 Hilton, 114.

FRENCH V. EDWARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the mortgage. The complainant's bill should have been dismissed.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause remitted with directions

to proceed
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

FRENCH V. EDWARDS ET AL.
1. Statutory requirements intended for the guide of officers in the conduct
of business devolved upon them and designed to secure order, system,
and dispatch in proceedings, and by a disregard of which the rights of
parties interested cannot be injuriously affected, are not usually regarded
as mandatory, unless accompanied by negative words importing that
the acts required shall not be done in any other manner or time than
that designated. But requirements intended for the protection of the
citizen, and to prevent a sacrifice of his property, and by a disregard
of which his rights might be and generally would be injuriously
affected, are not directory but mandatory. The power of the officer
in such cases is limited by the manner and conditions prescribed for its
exercise.
2. The provision of a statute of California, that the sheriff, in selling property upon a judgment recovered by the State against the property for
delinquent taxes, shall only sell the smallest quantity of the property
which any purchaser will take and pay the judgment and costs, was
intended for the protection of the taxpayer, and is mandatory upon the
officer and not directory merely.
3. The recitals in a deed of a sheriff as to the manner in which he executed
a judgment directing the sale of property are evidence against the
grantee and parties claiming under him. Accordingly a deed of this
officer reciting a sale of property under a judgment for taxes to the
highest bidder, when he was authorized by the statute only to sell the
smallest quantity of the property which any one would take and pay
the judgment and costs, was held to be void on its face.
4. A bill of exceptions dated during the term at which the trial was had,
though some days after the trial, is sufficient if it show that the exceptions were taken at the trial.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action for the possession of a tract of land
ERROR

