*NITED

STATES V.

KLEIN.

[Slip. Or.

Syllabus.

eluded), it says, that if any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction shall be suffered by several freighters or owners of
goods, wares, or merchandise, or any property whatever, on
the same voyage, and the whole value of the ship or vessel,
and her freight for the voyage, shall not be sufficient, &c.
Surely this language is broad enough to cover damage by
collision, as well as other damages. And the close connection and dependency of the two sections, require a construction to be given to the one coextensive with that given to
the other, if it can possibly be done without violence to the
language.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, with directions to suspend further proceedings thereon until the
respondents (the appellants in this court), shall have had
such reasonable time as the Circuit Court may deem sufficient for taking the proper proceedings in the District Court
for the Eastern District of New York, for apportioning the
damage sustained by the various parties in this case. The
costs in this court and the courts below to be equally divided
between the libellants and the respondents. Also, process
against the stipulators to be suspended to abide the event of
the suit.
Mr. Justice STRONG was not present at the argument in
this case, and took no part in the judgment.

UNITED STATES V.

KLEIN.

1. The act of March 12th, 1868 (12 Stat. at Large, 820), to provide for the
collection of abandoned and captured property in insurrectionary districts
within the United States, does not confiscate, or in any case absolutely

divest the property of the original owner, even though disloyal.

By

the seizure the government constituted itself a trustee for those who
were entitled or whom it should thereafter recognize as entitled.

2. By virtue of the act of 17th July, 1862, authorizing the President to offer
pardon on such conditions as he might think advisable, and the proclamation of 8th December, 1863, which promised a restoration of all rights

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

129

Syllabus.
of property, except as to slaves, on condition that the prescribed oath
be taken and kept inviolate, the persons who bad faithfully accepted
the conditions offered became entitled to the proceeds of their property
thus paid into the treasury, on application within two years from the
close of the war.
3. The repeal, by an act of 21st January, 1867 (after the war bad closed),
of the act of 17th July, 1862, authorizing the executive to offer pardon,
did not alter the operation of the pardon, or the obligation of Congress
to give full effect to it if necessary by legislation.
4. The proviso inthe appropriation act of July 12th, 1870 (16 Stat. at Large,
235), in substance"That no pardon or amnesty granted by ihe President shall be admissible
in evidence on the part of any claimant in the Court of Claims as evidence in
support of any claim against the United States, or to establish the standing of
any claimant in said court, or his right to bring or maintain suit therein ; and
that no such pardon or amnesty heretofore put in evidence on behalf of any
claimant in that court be considered by it, or by the appellate court on appeal
from said court, in deciding upon the claim of such claimant, or any appeal
therefrom, as any part of the proof to sustain the claim of the claimant, or to
entitle him to maintain his action in the Court of Claims, or on appeal therefrom, . . . but that proof of loyalty (such as the proviso goes on to mention),
shall be made irrespective of the effect of any executive proclamation, pardon,
amnesty, or other act of condonation or oblivion. And that in all cases where
judgment shall have been heretofore rendered in the Court of Claims in favor of
any claimant on any other proof of loyalty than such as the proviso requires,
this court shall, on appeal, have no further jurisdiction of the cause, and shall
dismiss the same for want of jurisdiction :
"And further, that whenever any pardon shall have heretofore been granted
by the President to any person bringing suit in the Court of Claims for the proceeds of abandoned or captured property under the act of Mlarch 12th, 1863 ;
and such pardon shall recite, in substance, that such person took part in the
late rebellion, or was guilty of any act of rebellion against, or disloyalty to, the
United States, and such pardon shall have been accepted, in writing, by the person to whom the same issued, without an express disclaimer of and protestdtion
against such fact tf guilt contained in such acceptance, such pardon and acceptance shall be taken and deemed in such suit in the said Court of Claims, and on
appeal therefrom, conclusive evidence that such person did take part in and
give aid and comfort to the late rebellion, and did not maintain true allegiance
or consistently adhere to the United States, and on proof of such pardon and
acceptance the jurisdiction of the court in the case shall cease, and the court
shall forthwith dismiss the suit of such claimant"is in conflict with the views expressed in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, abover
and is unconstitutional and void. Its substance being that an acceptance of a pardon without a disclaimer shall be conclusive evidence ef
the acts pardoned, but shall be null and void as evidence of rights conferred by it, both in the Court of Claims and in this court; it invadesthe powers both of the judicial axd of the executive departments- of'
the government.
9
VOL. xI.

UNITED STATES V. K-LEIN.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

TIiIS was a motion by Mr. Ackerman, Attorney- General, in
behalf of the United States, to remand an appeal from the
Court of Claims which the government had taken in June,
1869, with a mandate that the same be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction as now required by law.
The case was thus:
Congress, during the progress of the late rebellion, passed
various laws to regulate the subject of forfeiture, confiscation, or appropriation to public use without compensation, of
private property whether real or personal of non-combatant
enemies.
The first was the act of July 13th, 1861.* It made liable
to seizure and forfeiture all property passing to and fro between the loyal and insurrectionary States, and the vessels
and vehicles by which it should be attempted to be conveyed.
So an act of August 6th, 1861,t subjected to seizure and
forfeiture all property of every kind, used or intended to be
used in aiding, abetting, or promoting the insurrection, or
allowing or permitting it to be so used.
These statutes require judicial condemnation to make the
forfeiture complete.
A more general law, and one upon which most of the
seizures made during the rebellion was founded, is the act
of July 17th, 1862.1 It provides for the punishment of treason, and specifies its disqualifications and disabilities. In
its sixth section, it provides that every person who shall be
engaged in or be aiding the rebellion, and shall not cease
and return to his allegiance within sixty days after proclamation made by the President of the United States, shall
forfeit all his property, &c. The proclamation required by
this act was issued by the President on the 25th day of July,
1862.§ The sixty days expired September 23d, 1862.
On the 12th of March, 1863, Congress passed another
species of act-the one entitled "An act to provide for the
12 Stat. at Large, 257.
I 589.
lb.

t Ib. 319.
Id. 1266.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

-Statement of the case.

collection of abandoned property, &c., in insurrectionary
districts within the United States." The statute authorized
the Secretary of the Treasury to appoint special agents to
receive and collect all abandoned or captured property in
any State br Territory in insurrection: "Provided, That
such property shall not include any kind or description
which has been used, or which was intended to be used, for
waging or carrying on war against the United States, such
as arms, ordnance, ships, steamboats, or other watercraft,
and their furniture, forage, military supplies, or munitions
of war."
The statute went on:
"And any person claiming to have been the owner of any
such abandoned or captured property may, at any time within
two years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim
to the proceeds thereof in the Court of Claims; and on proof to
the satisfactionof said court of his ownership of said property, of
his right to the proceeds thereof, and that he has never given any
aid or comfort to the present rebellion, to receive the residue of such
proceeds after the deduction of any purchase-money which may
have been paid, together with the expense of transportation
and sale of said property, and any other lawful expenses attending the disposition thereof."
Some other acts, amendatory of this one or relating to the
Court of Claims, required proof of the petitioner's loyalty
during the rebellion as a condition precedent to recovery.
By the already-mentioned confiscation act of July 17th,
1862, the President was authorized by proclamation to extend to persons who had participated in rebellion, pardon,
and amnesty, with such exceptions, and at such times, and
on such conditions as he should deem expedient for the
public wclfhre.
And on the 8th of December, 1863, he did issue his
proclamation, reciting the act, and that certain -persons
who had been engaged in the rebellion desired to resume
their allegiance and reinaugurate loyal State governments
within and for their respective States. And thereupon pro-

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

claimed that a full pardon should be thereby granted to
them, with restoration of all rights of property, except as to
slaves, and in property cases where rights of third parties
shall have intervened; and upon condition that every such
person shall take and subscribe a prescribed oath of allegiance, and thenceforward keep and maintain said oath
inviolate, &c.
Under this proclamation, V. F. Wilson, who during the
rebellion had voluntarily become the surety on the official
bonds of certain officers of the rebel confederacy, and so
given aid and comfort to it, took, February 15th, 1864, this
oath of allegiance, and had kept the same inviolate.
He himself having died in 1865, one Klein, his administrator, filed a petition in the Court of Claims, setting tbrth
Wilson's ownership of certain cotton which he had abandoned to the treasury agents of the United States, and which
they had sold; putting the proceeds into the Treasury of the
United States, where they now were, and from which the
petitioner sought to obtain them. This petition was filed
December 26th, 1865.
The section of the act of 1862, by which the President
was authorized to extend pardon and amnesty on such conditions as he should deem expedient for the public welfare,
was repealed on the 21st of January, 1867.*
The Court of Claims, on the 26th May, 1869, decided that
Wilson had been entitled to receive the proceeds of his
cotton, and decreed $125,300 to Klein, the administrator of
his estate. An appeal was taken by the United States June
3d, following, and filed in this court on the 11th December,
of the same year.
Previously to this case of Klein's the Court of Claims had
had before it the case of one Padelford, quite like this one;
for there also the claimant, who had abandoned his cotton
and now claimed its proceeds, having participated in the
rebellion, had taken the amnesty oath. The Court of Claims
held that the oath cured his participation in the rebellion,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 877.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

Statement of the case.

and so it gave him a decree for the proceeds of his cotton in
the treasury. The United States brought that case here by
appeal,* and the decree of the Court of Claims was affirmed;
this court declaring that although Padelford had participated
in .the rebellion, yet, that having been pardoned, he was as
innocent in law as though he had never participated, and
that his property was purged of whatever ofTence he had
committed and relieved from any penalty that he might
have incurred. The judgment of this court, to the effect
above mentioned, was publicly announced on the 80th of
April, 1870.
Soon after this-the bill making appropriations for the
legislative, executive, and judicial expenses of the govern,ment for the year 1870-71, then pending in Congress-the
following was introduced as a proviso to an appropriation
of $100,000, in the first section, for the payment of judgments in the Court of Claims, and with this proviso in it the
bill became a law July 12th, 1870 :t
"Provided, That no pardon or amnesty granted by the President, whether general or special, by proclamation or otherwise,
nor any acceptance of such pardon or amnesty, nor oath taken,
or other act performed in pursuance or as a condition thereof,
shall be admissible in evidence on the part of any claimant in
the Court of Claims as evidence in support of any claim against
the United States, or to establish the standing of any claimant
in said court, or his right to bring or maintain suit therein; nor
shall any such pardon, amnesty, acceptance, oath, or other act
as aforesaid, heretofore offered or put in evidence on behalf of
any claimant in said court, be used or considered by said court,
or by the appellate court on appeal'from said court, in deciding
upon the claim of said claimant, or any appeal therefrom, as
any part of the proof to sustain the claim of the claimant, or to
entitle him to maintain his action in said Court of Claims, or
on appeal therefrom; but the proof of loyalty required by the
Abandoned and Captured Property Act, and by the sections of
several acts quoted, shall be made by proof of the matters reUnited States v. Iadelford, 9 Wallace, 531.
t1 Stat. at Large, 235.

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the motion.

quired, irrespective of the effect of any executive proclamation,
pardon, amnesty, or other act of condonation or oblivion. And
in all cases where judgment shall have been heretofore rendered
in the Court of Claims in favor of any claimant, on any other
proof of loyalty than such as is above required and provided,
and which is hereby declared to have been and to be the true
intent and meaning of said respective acts, the Supreme Court
shall, on appeal, have no further jurisdiction of the cause, and
shall dismiss the same for want of jurisdiction.
"And provided further, That whenever any pardon shall have
heretofore been granted by the President of the United States
to any person bringing suit in the Court of Claims for the proceeds of abandoned or captured property under the said act,
approved 12th March, 1863, and the acts amendatory of the
same, and such pardon shall recite in substance that such person took part in the late rebellion against the government of
the United States, or was guilty of any act of rebellion against,
or disloyalty to, the United States; and such pardon shall have
been accepted in writing by the person to whom the same issued
without an express disclaimer of; and protestation against, such
fact of guilt contained in such acceptance, such pardon and acceptance shall be taken and deemed in such suit in the said
Court of Claims, and on appeal therefrom, conclusive evidence
that such person did take part in, and give aid and comfort to,
the late rebellion, and did not maintain true allegiance or consistently adhere to the United States; and on proof of such
pardon and acceptance, which proof may be heard summarily
on motion or otherwise, the jurisdiction of the court in the case
shall cease, and the court shall forthwith dismiss the suit of such
claimant."
The motion already melitioned, of the Attorney-General,
that the case be remanded to the Court of Claims with a
mandate that the same be dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
as now required by law, was, of course, founded on this enactment in the appropriatiou bill of July 12th, 1870.
1Mr. Akerman, Attorney-General, Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. . -H. Rill, Assistant Attorney- General,in support
of the motion:
The United States as sovereign are not liable to suit at

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.
Argument in support of the motion.

all, and if they submit themselves to suit it is ex gratid, and
on such terms as they may see fit.
Accordingly the right of the Court of Claims to entertain
jurisdiction of cases in which the United States are defendants, and to render judgments against them, exists only by
virtue of acts of Congress granting such jurisdiction, and it
is limited precisely to such cases, both in regard to parties
and to the cause of action, as Congress has prescribed, which
body may also define the terms on which judgments shall be
rendered against the government, either as to classes of cases or
as to individual cases.
Rules of evidence are at all times subject to legislative
modification and control, and the alterations which are enacted therein by the legislature may be made applicable as
-well to existing as to future causes of action. In prescribing the evidence which shall be received in its courts, and
the effect of that evidence, the state is exercising its acknowledged powers.
From the foregoing propositions it follows:
1. That Congress may prescribe what shall or shall not be
received in evidence in support of a claim on which suit is
brought against the government, or in support of the right
of the claimant to maintain his suit, and, on the other hand,
may declare what shall be the effect of certain evidence
when offered in behalf of the government.
2. That it may withdraw entirely from the consideration
of the court evidence of a particular kind in behalf of the
claimant, even after the same has been submitted to and
received by the court.
3. That it may, upon the presentation of proof of a certain description in behalf of the government, determine the
jurisdiction of the court over the particular subject.
4. That it may, even in cases where judgment has been
rendered in favor of the claimant on certain proof, and notwithstanding the proof was competent at the time of the
rendering of the judgment, interpose when such cases are
afterwards brought before the appellate court and require
the same to be dismissed by the latter.

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

These different things are what are done, and no more is
done by different parts of the proviso in question.
Messrs. Bartley and Casey, P. Phillips, Carlisle, McPherson,
and T. D. Lincoln, arguing in this or similar cases against the
motion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The general question in this case is whether or not the
proviso relating to suits for the proceeds of abandoned and
captured property in the Court of Claims, contained in the
appropriation act of July 12th, 1870, debars the defendant
in error from recovering, as administrator of V. F. Wilson,
deceased, the proceeds of certain cotton belonging to the
decedent, which came into the possession of the agents of
the Treasury Department as captured or abandoned property, and the proceeds of which were paid by them according to law into the Treasury of the United States.
The answer to this question requires a consideration of
the rights of property, as affected by the late civil war, in
the hands of citizens engaged in hostilities against the United
States.
It may be said in general terms that property in the insurgent States may be distributed into four classes:
1st. That which belonged to the hostile organizations or
was employed in actual hostilities on land.
2d. That which at sea became lawful subject of capture
and prize.
3d. That which became the subject of confiscation.
4th. A peculiar description, known only in the recent
war, called captured and abandoned property.
The first of these descriptions of property, like property
of other like kind in ordinary international wars, became,
wherever taken, ipso facto, the property of the United States.*
The second of these descriptions comprehends ships and
vessels with their cargoes belonging to the insurgents or
* Halleck's International Law.

:Dec. 1871.]

UNITED

STATES V. ]KLEIN.

Opinion of the court.

employed in aid of them; but property in these was not
changed by capture alone but by regular judicial proceeding and sentence.
Accordingly it was provided in the Abandoned and Captured Property Act of March 12th, 1863,* that the property
to be collected under it "shall not include any kind or description used or intended to be used for carrying on war
against
the United States,. such as arms, ordnance,
ships,
steamboats and their furniture, forage, military supplies, or
munitions of war."
Almost all the property of the people in the insurgent
States was included in the third description, for after sixty
days from the date of the President's proclamation of July
25th, 1862,t all the estates and property of those who did
not cease to aid, countenance, and abet the rebellion became
liable to seizure and confiscation, and it was made the duty
of the President to cause the same to be seized and applied,
either specifically or in the proceeds thereof, to the support
of the army.$ But it is to be observed that tribunals and
proceedings were provided, by which alone such property
could be condemned, and without which it remained unaffected in the possession of the proprietors.
It is thus seen that, except to property used in actual hostilities, as mentioned in the first section of the act of March
12th, 1863, no titles were divested in the insurgent States
unless in pursuance of a judgment rendered after due legal
proceedings. The government recognized to the fullest extent the humane maxims of the modern law of nations,
which exempt private property of non-combatant enemies
from captdre as booty of war. Even the law of confiscation
was sparingly applied. The cases were few indeed in which
the property of any not engaged in actual hostilities was
subjected to seizure and sale.
The spirit which animated the government received special illustration from the act under which the present case
arose. We have called the property taken into the custody
* 12 Stat. at Large, 820.

t 1b. 1266.

$

b. 590.

-UNITED STATES V.

KLEIN.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

of public officers under that act a peculiar species, and it
was so. There is, so far as we are aware, no similar legislation mentioned in history.
The act directs the officers of the Treasury Department
to take into their possession and make sale of all property
abandoned by its owners or captured by the national forces,
and to pay the proceeds into the national treasury.
That it was not the intention of Congress that the title to
these proceeds should be divested absolutely out of the original owners of the property seems clear upon a comparison
of different parts of the act.
We have already seen that those articles which became
by the simple fact of capture the property of the captor, as
ordnance, munitions of war, and the like, or in which third
parties acquired rights which might be made absolute by
decree, as ships and other vessels captured as prize, were
expressly excepted from the operation of the act; and it is
reasonable to infer that it was the purpose of Congress that
the proceeds of the property obr which the special provision
of the act was made should go into the tAreasur without
change of ownership. Certainly such was the intention in
respect to the properKty of loyal men. That the same intention prevailed in regard to the property of owners who,
though then hostile, might subsequently become loyal, appears probable from the circS-imtnce that no provision is
anywhere made for confiscation of it; while there is no
trace in the statute book of intention to divest ownership
of private property not excepted from the effect of this act,
otherwise than by proceedings for confiscation.
In the case of Padelford we held that the right to the
possession of private property was not changed until actual
seizure by proper military authority, and that actual seizure
by such authority did not divest the title under the provisions of the Abandoned and Captured Property Act. The
reasons assigned seem fully to warrant the conclusion. The
government constituted itself the trustee for those who were
by that act declared entitled to the proceeds of captured and
abandoned property, and for those whom it should there-

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. ]KLEIM.

.139

Opinion of the court.

after recognize as entitled. By the act itself it was provided
that any person claiming to have been the owner of such
property might prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof, and,
on proof that he bad never given aid or comfort to the rebellion, receive the amount after deducting expenses.
This larguage makes the right to the remedy dependent
upon proof of loyalty', but implies that there may be proof
of ownership without proof of loyalty. The property of
the original owner is, in no case, absolutely divested. There
is, as we have already observed, no confiscation, but the proceeds of the property have passed into the possession of the
government, and restoration of the property' is pledged to
none except to those who have continually adhered to the
government. w netner restoration wilt De mane to otmers,
or confiscation will be enforced, is left to be determined by
considerations of public policy subsequently to be developed.
It is to be observed, however, that the Abandoned and
Captured Property Act was approved on the 12th of March,
1863, and on the 17th of July, 1862, Congress had already
passed an act-the same which provided for confiscationwhich authorized the President, "at any time hereafter, by
proclamation, to extend to persons who may have pai'ticipated in the existing rebellion, in any State or part thereof,
pardon and amnesty, with such exceptions and at such time
and on such conditions as he may deem expedient for the
public welfare." The act of the 12th of March, 1863, provided for the sale of enemies' property collected under the
act, and payment of the proceeds into the treasury, and left
them there subject to such aetfion a thA President might
take under the act ot the iti of July. 1862.
tils action r

What was

The suggestion of pardon by Congress, for such it was,
rather than authority, remained unacted on for more than a
year. At length, however, on the 8th of December, 1863,*
the President issued a proclamation, in which he referred to
that act, and offered a full pardon, with restoration of all
* 13 Stat. at Large, 737.

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rights of property, except as to slaves and property in which
rights of third persons had intervened, to all, with some
exceptions, who, having been engaged in the rebellion as
actual participants, or as aiders or abettors, would take and
keep inviolate a prescribed oath. By this oath the person
seeking to avail himself of the offered pardon was required
to promise that he would thencefbrth" support the Constitution of the United States and the union of the States thereunder, and would also abide by and support all acts of Congress and all proclamations of the President in reference to
slaves, unless the same should be modified or rendered void
by the decision of this court.
In his annual message, transmitted to Congress on the
same day, the President said "the Constitution authorizes
the Executive to grant or withhold pardon at his own absolute discretion." He asserted his power "to grant it on
terms as fully established," and explained the reasons which
induced him to require applicants for pardon and restoration of property to take the oath prescribed, in these words:
"Laws and proclamations were enacted and put forth for the
purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion. To
give'them their fullest effect there had to be a pledge for
their maintenance. In my judgment they have aided, and
will further aid, the cause for which they were intended.
To now abandon them would not only be to relinquish a
lever of power, but would also be a cruel and astounding
breach of faith. . . For these and other reasons it is thought
best that support of these measures shall be included in the
oath, and it is believed the Executive may lawfully claim it
in return for pardon and restoration of forfeited rights,
which he has clear constitutional power to withhold altogether or grant upon the terms which he shall deem wisest
for the public interest."
The proclamation of pardon, by a qualifying proclamation
issued on the 26th of March, 1864,* was limited, to those
persons only who, being yet at large and free from confine* 13 Stat. at Large, 741.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

Opinion of the court.

ment or duress, shall voluntarily come forward and take the
said oath with the purpose of restoring peace and establishing the national authority.
On the 29th of May, 1865j* amnesty and pardon, with the
restoration of the rights of property except as to slaves, and
that as to which legal proceedings had been instituted under
laws of the United States, were again offered to all who
had, directly or indirectly, pa'ticipated in the rebellion, except certain persons included in fourteen classes. All who
embraced this offer were required to take and subscribe an
oath of like tenor with that required by the first proclamation.
On the 7th of September, 1867,t still another proclamation was issued, offering pardon and amnesty, with restoration of property, as before and on the same oath, to all but
three excepted classes.
And finally, on the 4th of July, 1868,1 a full pardon and
amnesty was granted, with some exceptions, and on the 25th
of December, 1868,§ without exception, unconditionally and
without reservation, to all who had participated in the rebellion, with restoration of rights of property as before. No
oath was required.
It is true that the section of the act of Congress which
purported to authorize the proclamation of pardon and amnesty by the President was repealed on the 21st of January,
1867; but this was after the close of the war, when the act
had ceased to be important as an expression of the legislative disposition to carry int._teffect the cemency of the
Ex -iefixe-inidf-ter the decision of-this court that the
Presid-ent's power of pardon "is not subject to legislation;"
that "Congress can neither limit the effect of his pardon,
nor exclude 'from its exercise any class of offenders."11 It
is not important, therefore, to refer to this repealing act
further than to say that it is impossible to believe, while the
repealed provision was in full force, and the faith of the legis* 13 Stat. at Large, 758.

Ib. 711.

t 15 Id. 699.
1114th January, 1867.

T lb. 702.

UNITED STATES V.

KLEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lature as well as the Executive was engoged to the restoration
of the rights of property promised by the latter, that the
proceeds of property of persons pardoned, which had been
paid into the treasury, were to he withheld from them. The
repeal of the section in no respect changes the national obligation, for it does not alter at all the operation of the pardon,
or reduce in any degree the obligations of Congress under
the Constitution to give full effect to it, if necessary, by
legislation.
We conclude, therefore, that the title to the proceeds of
the property which came to the possession of the government
by capture or abandonment, with the exceptions already noticed, was in no case divested out of the original owner. It
was for the government itself to determine whether these
proceeds should be restored to the owner or not. The
promise of the restoration of all rights of property decides
that question affirmatively as to all persons who availed
themselves of the proffered pardon. It was competent for
the President to annex to his offer of pardon any conditions
or qualifications he should see fit; but after those conditions
and qualifications had been satisfied, the pardon and its connected promises took full effect. The restoration of theproceeds became the absolute right of the persons pardoned,
o-n application within two years from the close of the war.
It was, in fact, promised for an equivalent. " Pardon and
restoration of political rights " were

"

in return " for the

oath and its fulfilment. To refuse it would be a breach of
faith not less " cruel and astounding" than to abandon the
freed people whom the Executive had promised to maintain
in their freedom.
What, then, was the effect of the provision of the act of
1870* upon the right of the owner of the cotton in this case ?
He had done certain acts which this courtt has adjudged to
be acts in aid of the rebellion ; but he abandoned the cotton
to the agent of the Treasury Department, by whom it has
been sold and the proceeds paid into the Treasury of the
* 16 Stat. at Large, 235.

t United States v.Padelford, 9 Wallace, 531.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V.

KILEIN.

Opinion of the court:

United States; and he took, and has not violated, the amnesty oath under the President's proclamation. Upon this
case the Court of Claims pronounced him entitled to a judgment for the net proceeds in the treasury. This decree was
rendered on the 26th of May, 1869; the appeal to this court
made on the 3d of June, and was filed here on the 11th of
December, 1869.
The judgment of the court in the case of Padelfbrd, which,
in its essential features, was the same with this case, was
rendered on the 30th of April, 1870. It affirmed the judgment of the Court of Claims in his favor.
Soon afterwards the provision in question was introduced
as a proviso to the clause in the general appropriation bill,
appropriating a sum of money for the payment of judgments
of the Court of Claims, and became a part of the act, with
perhaps little consideration in either House of Congress.
This proviso declares in substance that no pardon, acceptance, oath, or other act performed in pursuance, or as a condition of pardon, shall be admissible in evidence in support
of any claim against the United States in the Court of Claims,
or to establish the right of any claimant to bring suit in that
court; nor, if already put in evidence, shall be used or considered on behalf of the claimant, by said court, or by the
appellate court on appeal. Proof of loyalty is required to
be made according to the provisions of certain statutes, irre-

spective of the effhct of any executive proclamation, pardon,
or amnesty, or act of oblivion; and when judgment has
been already rendered on other proof of loyalty, the Supreme Court, on appeal, shall have no further jurisdiction
of the cause, and shall dismiss the same for want of jurisdiction. It is further provided that whenever any pardon,
granted to any suitor in the Court of Claims, for the pro.ceeds of captured and abandoned property, shall recite in
substance that the person pardoned took part in the late
rebellion, or was guilty of any act of rebellion or disloyalty,
and shall have been accepted in writing without express disclaimer and protestation against the fact so recited, such
pardon or acceptance shall be taken as conclusive evidence

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

[Slip. CL.

Opinion of the court.

in the Court of Claims, and on appeal, that the claimant did
give aid to the rebellion; and on proof of such pardon, or
acceptance, which proof may be made summarily on motion
or otherwise, the jurisdiction of the court shall cease, and
the suit shall be forthwith dismissed.
The substance of this enactment is that an acceptance of
a pardon, without disclaimer, shall be conclusive evidence
of the acts pardoned, but shall be null and void as evidence
of the rights conferred by it, both in the Court of Claims
and in this court on appeal.
It was urged in argument that the right to sue the government in the Court of Claims is a matter of favor; but
this seems not entirely accurate. It is as much the duty
of the government as of individuals to fulfil its obligations.
Before the establishment of the Court of Claims claimants
could only be heard by Congress. That court was established in 1855* for the triple purpose of relieving Congress,
and of protecting the government by regular investigation,
and of benefiting the claimants by affording them a certain
mode of examining and adjudicating upon their claims. It
was required to hear and determine upon claims founded
upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an
executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the government of the United States.t Originally it was a court merely in name, for its power extended
only to the preparation of bills to be submitted to Congress.
In 1863 the number of judges was increased from three
to five, its jurisdiction was enlarged, and, instead of being
required to prepare bills for Congress, it was authorized to
render final judgment, subject to appeal to this court and to
an estimate by the Secretary of the Treasury of the amount
required to pay each claimant.1 This court being of opinion§
that the provision for an estimate was inconsistent with the
finality essential to judicial decisions, Congress repealed that
provision.I] Since then the Court of Claims has exercised
* 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

2 Wallace, 561.

t Ib.

: 12 Ib. 765.
II 14 Stat. at Large, 9.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.
Opinion of the court.

all the functions of a court, and this court has taken full
jurisdiction on appeal.*
The Court of Claims is thus constituted one of those inferior courts which Congress authorizes, and has jurisdiction
of contracts between the government ard the citizen, from
which appeal regularly lies to this court.
Undoubtedly the legislature has complete control over
the organization and existence of that court and may confer
or withhold the right of appeal from its decisions. And if
this act did nothing more, it would be our duty to give it
effect. If it simply denied the right of appeal in a particular
class of cases, there could be no doubt that it must be regarded as an exercise of the power of Congress to make
"such exceptions from the appellate jurisdiction" as should
seem to it expedient.,
But the language of the proviso shows plainly that it does
not intend to withhold appellate jurisdiction except as a
means to an end. Its great and controlling purpose is to
deny to pardons granted by the President the effect which
this court had adjudged them to have. The proviso declares
that pardons shall not be considered by this court on appeal.
We had already decided that it was our duty to consider
them and give them effect, in cases like the present, as
equivalent to proof of loyalty. It provides that whenever
it shall appear that any judgment of the Court of Claims
shall have been founded on such pardons, without other
proof of loyalty, the Supreme Court shall have no further
jurisdiction of the case and shall dismiss the same for want
of jurisdiction. The proviso further declares that every
pardon granted to any suitor in the Court of Claims and
reciting that the person pardoned has been guilty of any act
of rebellion or disloyalty, shall, if accepted in writing without disclaimer of the fact recited, be taken as conclusive evidence in that court and on appeal, of the act recited; and on
proof of pardon or acceptance, summarily made on motion
* 14 Stat. at Large, 44, 391, 444.
VOL. MIIL

10

UNITED STATES V.

KLEIN.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

or otherwise, the jurisdiction of the court shall cease and the
suit shall be forthwith dismissed.
It is evident from this statement that the denial of jurisdiction to this court, as well as to the Court of Claims, is
founded solely on the application of a rule of decision, in
causes pending, prescribed by Congress. The court has
jurisdiction of the cause to a given point; but when it ascertains that a certain state of things exists, its jurisdiction is
to cease and it is required to dismiss the cause for want of
jurisdiction.
It seems to us that this is not an exercise of the acknowledged power of Congress to make exceptions and prescribe
regulations to the appellate power.
The court is required to ascertain the existence of certain
facts and thereupon to declare that its jurisdiction on appeal
has ceased, by dismissing the bill. What is this but to prescribe a rule for the decision of a cause.in a particular way?
In the case before us, the Court of Claims has rendered
judgment for the claimant and an appeal has been taken to
this court. We are directed to dismiss the appeal, if we find
that the judgment must be affirmed, because of a pardon
granted to the intestate of the claimants. Can we do so
without allowing one party to the controversy to decide it
in its own favor? Can we do so without allowing that the
legislature may prescribe rules 9f decision to the Judicial
Department of the government in cases pending before it?
We think not; and thus thinking, we do not at all question what was decided in the case of Pennsylvania v. Vheeling
Bridge Compavy.* In that case, after a decree in this court
that the bridge, in the then state of the law, was a nuisance
and must be abated as such, Congress passed an act legalizing the structure and making it a post-road; and the court,
on a motion for process to enforce the decree, held that the
bridge had ceased to be a nuisance by the exercise of the
constitutional powers of Congress, and denied the motion.
INo arbitrary rule of decision was prescribed in that case,
* 18 Howard, 429.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. -LEIN.
Opinion of the court.

but the court was left to apply its ordinary rules to the new
circumstances created by the act. In the case before us no
new circumstances have been created by legislation. But
the court is forbidden to give the effect to evidence which,
in its own judgment, such evidence should have, and is directed to give it an effect precisely contrary.
We must think that Congress has inadvertently passed
the limit which separates the legislative from the judicial
power.
It is of vital importance that these powers be kept distinct. The Constitution provides that the j udicial power of
the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court and
such inferior courts as the Congress shall from time to time
ordain and establish. The same instrument, in* the last
clause of the same article, provides that in all cases other
than those of original jurisdiction, "the Supreme Court shall
have appellate jurisdiction both as to law and fact, with such
exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make."
Congress has already provided that the Supreme Court
shall have jurisdiction of the judgments of the Court of
Claims on appeal. Can it prescribe a rule in conformity
with which the court must deny to itself the jurisdiction
thus conferred, because and only because its decision, in
accordance with settled law, must be adverse to the government and favorable to the suitor ? This question seems to
us to answer itself.
The rule prescribed is also liable to just exception as impairing the effect of a pardon, and thus infringing the constitutional power of the Executive.
It is the intention of the Constitution that each of the
great co-ordinate departments of the government-the
Legislative, the Executive, and the Judicial-shall be, in
its sphere, independent of the others. To the executive
alone is intrusted the power of pardon; and it is granted
without limit. Pardon includes amnesty. It blots out the
offence pardoned and removes all its penal consequences.
It may be grgnted on conditions. In these particular par-

UNITED STATES V. lLEIN.

[Sup. cto

Opinion of Miller and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

dons, that no doubt might exist as to their character, restoration of property was expressly pledged, and the pardon was
granted on condition that the person who availed himself
of it should take and keep a prescribed oath.
iNow it is clear that the legislature cannot change the
effect of such a pardon any more than the executive can
change a law. Yet this is attempted by the provision under
consideration. The court is required to receive special pardons as evidence of guilt and to treat them as null and void.
It is required to disregard pardons granted by proclamation
on condition, though the condition has been fulfilled, and to
deny them their legal effect. This certainly impairs the
executive authority and directs the court to be instrumental
to that end.
We think it unnecessary to enlarge. The simplest statement is the best.
We repeat that it is impossible to believe that this provision was not inserted in the appropriation bill through inadvertence; and that we shall not best fulfil the deliberate
will of the legislature by DENYING the motion to dismiss and
AFFIRMING the judgment of the Court of Claims; which is
ACCORDINGLY DONE.

Mr. Justice MILLER (with whom concurred Mr. Justice
BRADLEY), dissenting.
I cannot agree to the opinion of the court just delivered
in an important matter; and I regret this the more because
I do agree to the proposition that the proviso to the act of
July 12th, 1870, is unconstitutional, so far as it attempts to
prescribe to the judiciary the effect to be given to an act of
pardon or amnesty by the President. This power of pardon
is confided to the President by the Constitution, and whatever may be its extent or its limits, the legislative branch of
the government cannot impair its force or effect in a judicial
proceeding in a constitutional court. But I have not been
able to bring my mind to concur in the proposition that,
under the act concerning captured and abaudoned property,
there remains in the former owner, who had given aid. and

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED
.
STATES V. KLEIN.

Opinion of Miller and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

comfort to the rebellion, any interest whatever in the.. roperty oi its proceeds when it had been sold and paid into the
treasury or had been converted to the use of the public
under that act. I must construe this act, as all others should
be construed, by seeking the intention of its framers, and
the intention to restore the proceeds of such property to the
loyal citizen, and to transfer it absolutely to the government
in the case of those who had given active support to the
rebelion, isto me f66 apparent to be- disregarded. In the
e case ths-government is converted into a trustee for the
former owner; in the other it appropriates it to its own use
as the property of a public en ii-&
-ed in war. Can it
be inferred from anything found in the statute that Congress
intended that this property should ever be restored to the
disloyal ? I am unable to discern any such intent. But if
it did, why was not some provision made by which the title
of the government could at some time be made perfect, or
that of the owner established ? Some judicial proceeding
for confiscation would seem to be necessary if there remains
in the disloyal owner any right or interest whatever. But
there is no such provision, and unless the act intended to
forfeit absolutely the right of the disloyal owner, the proceeds remain in a condition where the owner cannot maintain a suit for its recovery, and the United States can obtain
no perfect title to it.
This statute has recently received the attentive consideration of the court in two reported cases.
In the case of the United States v. Anderson,* in reference
to the relation of the government to the money paid into
the treasury under this act, and the difference between the
property of the loyal and disloyal owner, the court uses language hardly consistent with the opinion just read. It says
that Congress, in a spirit of liberality, constituted the government a trustee for so much of this property as belonged
to the faithful Southern people, and while it directed that
all of it should be sold and its proceeds paid into the treasLry, gave to this class of persons an opportunity to establish
9 Wallace, 65.

UNITED STATES V. KLEIN.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of Miller and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

their right to the proceeds. Again, it is said, that "the
measure, in itself of great beneficence, was practically important only in its application to the loyal Southern people,
and sympathy for their situation doubtless prompted Congress to pass it." These views hadothe unanimous concurrence of the court. If I understand the present opinion,
however, it maintains that the government, in taking possession of this property and selling it, became the trustee of
all the former owners, whether loyal or disloyal, and holds
it for the latter atntil pardoned by the President, oruntil
0oing-ress orders it to be restored to him.
The other case which I refer to is that of United States v.
Padelford.* In that case the opinion makes a labored and
successful effort to show that Padelford, the owner of the
property, had secured the benefit of the amnesty proclamation before the property was seized under the same statute
we are now considering. And it bases the right of Padelford to recover its proceeds in the treasury on the fact that
before the capture his status as a loyal citizen had been restored, and with it all his rights of property, although he
had previously given aid and comfort to the rebellion. In
this view I concurred with all my brethren. And I hold
now that as long as the possession or title of property remains in the party, the pardon or the amnesty remits all
right in the government to forfeit or confiscate it. But
where the property has already been seized and sold, and
the proceeds paid into the treasury, and it is clear that the
statute contemplates no further proceeding as necessary to
divest the right of the former owner, the pardon does not
affd cannot restore that which has thus completely passed
away. And if such was not the view of the court when
Padelford's case was under consideration I am at a loss to
discover a reason for the extended argument in that case, in
the opinion of the court, to show that he had availed himself of the amnesty before the seizure of the property. If
the views now advanced are sound, it was wholly immaterial
whether Padelford was pardoned before or after the seizure.
9 Wallace, 5a1.

