Dec. 1871.]

KITCHEN v. BEDFORD.
Statement of the case.

issue and to deny the right to adjudicate, is to deny the
right to protect the citizen by habeas corpus against arbitrary
imprisonment in a large class of cases; and, I am thoroughly
persuaded, was never within the contemplation of the Convention which framed, or the people who adopted, the Constitution. That instrument expressly declares that "the
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when, in case of rebellion or invasion, the public
safety may require it."

KITCHEN v. BEDFORD.
1. Where a person acknowledged the receipt of "the sum of $119,000 in
bonds" of a railroad company, and of "50,405 dollars of coupons,"
amounting in the aggregate to "the sum of $169,405," " which said sum
he promised to expend in the purchase of lands" of that same railroad
company, "at or near the average price of $5 per acre;" held, that this
was a trust to buy the lands with the bonds at or near the price of $5
an acre; and not to buy them with the proceeds of the bonds after they
were sold at a nominal price.
2. Purchasers who fraudulently purchased, in breach of the trust, held liable
in trover.
8. The statute law of Arkansas has not changed the common law rule, that
a husband cannot legally make a gift to his wife during coverture.
4. Where a husband has not parted with the legal title to bonds of which
he may have made an equitable gift for his wife's benefit, he can call
any person to account who unlawfully converts them.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.
Kitchen, a citizen of Arkansas, brought trover in the
court below against a certain Bedford and one Webber, for
the conversion of one hundred and nineteen bonds of the
Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, for $1000 each, dated
October 1st, 1857, and payable in New York in 1882, with
semi-annual interest represented by interest warrants annexed to the bonds. The conversion was laid as on the 1st
of December, 1866. Plea, "Not guilty." A jury being
waived, the cause was tried by the court in May, 1870, and

KITCHEN V. BEDFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

judgment rendered for the defendants. A bill of exceptions
was taken, however, from which it appeared that on the trial
evidence was given tending to establish the following facts,
to wit:
The plaintiff, on the 16th of March, 1866, being owner of
the bonds described in the declaration, gave them to his wife,
and put them in the hands of one W. C. Rayburn, on the
terms and for the purposes set out in the following writing,
which ayburn executed under seal, to wit:
" WALCOT, ARKANSAS,

MNarch 16th, 1866.

"Received from Martha Kitchen, the sum of one hundred and
nineteen thousand dollars in bonds of the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company of Missouri, and I also received fifty thousand
four hundred and five dollars of coupons or interest warrants,
due and owing by said company, amounting in the aggregate to
the sum of one hundred and sixty-nine thousand four hundred

and five dollars, which said sum I promise to expend in the purchase of lands from John Moore, John Wilson, and Albert G.
Waterman, trustees of the said railroad company of Missouri,
at or near the average price of five dollars per acre, taking the'
deeds in my own name; and I further promise to sell all the
lands purchased as aforesaid, as soon as possible, at such prices
as the said Kitchen may direct, and if I should fail to sell all
said lands, as soon as said Kitchen may desire, then I promise
to sell the same at public auction, whenever so directed by the
said Kitchen, and after deducting the expenses of stamps and
necessary travelling expenses, to pay unto the said Martha
Kitchen, or her legal representatives, seven-eighths of all the
money that I may sell the said lands for. Given under my
hand and seal the date above written.
[sEAL.]

"W.

C. RAYBURN."

Rayburn having received the bonds for the purpose thus
indicated, in December, 1866, sold and delivered them to

the defendant Bedford, for

$10,000, and lie sold and deliv-

ered them to defendant Webber, who afterwards sold them
for $26,340, each knowing, when purchasing, the purposes
for which Rayburn held them, as expressed in the writing.

Dec. 1871.]

KITCHEN V. BEDFORD.
Argument for the trustee.

A demand for the bonds and coupons, was made by the
plaintiff of the defendants before the suit was brought.
The court declared that, on this evidence the plaintiff
could not recover, and the plaintiff having excepted, now
brought the case here accordingly
Messrs. Carlisle and ilfPherson,for the plaintiff in error:
The bonds were those of the Cairo and Fulton Railroad
Company, and were "put in the hands" of Rayburn "to
expend in the purchase of lands from the trustees of the
company;" a most natural use of them; since in so using
them, they could be used as money, and their full or best
value got; the only way it is obvious in which they could be
so used, or such value could be got. The case, then, is that
of a delivery of a thing in trust upon an agreement to conform to the purpose of the trust. But this is the definition
of a bailment, not of a sale. The transaction indeed has no
aspect of a sale.
. These bonds having been disposed of in a way different
from the specific one for which they were given to Rayburn,
there has been a conversion, and trover lies.
Mr. T. T. Gantt, contra:
1. A fair construction of the paper is, that the bonds and
coupons were absolutely sold to Rayburn at par, and that he
stipulated to invest this par value in lands, as prescribed in
the bond. It is declared expressly that he has received two
sums of money amounting to $169,405, "which said sum"
he promises to expend in the purchase of lands, &c.; that
is to say, he takes the bonds, charges himself with their par
value, and agrees to invest that amount or "sum" in the
purchase of lands.
The case shows nothing of the value of the bonds in December, 1866; nor anything to show that the price at which
*-aswe suppose-Rayburn took them, was not their then
true market price. It is obvious from the difference between the price at which Bedford bought them and that at
which he sold them, that the bonds were bonds having what is

KITCHEN

v.

BEDFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

known as "a speculative value;" an immense class of bonds
in this country. If $169,405 was a fair market value, every
presumption is in favor of a sale, rather than of a bailment.
Ifthis view is right, and Rayburn has not iuvested-a matter
not shown on the other side, nor by us admitted-then a
suit for breach of covenant lies against him ; but not trover
against his vendees.
But certainly if there was a trust, it was a trust with a
power to sell, and invest proceeds. The sale has been made,
and non consial but that the proceeds have been invested.
Embezzlement is not to be presumed; and it is not proved.
Whether invested or not invested-no charge of fraud at all
being made as respects them-suit cannot be maintained
against the vendees for making a purchase under a sale
authorized and obligatory. As matter of fact, there is no
proof that the prices paid by both Bedford and Webbergreat as the diference between them was-were not both
true market prices at this time. In "fancy stocks" fluctuations are violent.
2. But Kitchen had given the bonds to his wife, and
Rayburn receives them from her. The husband does not
once appear in the history, after his gift. The wife should
have been joined with the husband as plaintiff.
Reply: The husband had owned the bonds, and he it was
who "put them in the hands of Rayburn." As between
husband and wife, no valid gift could be made to her; and
if the bonds had been delivered to her when the husband
resumed possession they would become his own. The receipt is to be construed in connection with the rest of the
evidence, which shows that the bonds were received from
the plaintiff, and were his property, and were intended to
be dedicated to his wife's use in the manner provided in the
receipt. But all this is unimportant. The husband alone
can bring trover for conversion of the wit's chattels.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Supposing the ficts upon the evidence of which the court

Dee. 1871.]

KITCHEN V. BEDFORD.
Opinion of the court.

below declared that the plaintiff could not recover, to have
been sufficiently proven, it seems to us that the court erred
in taking the view of the case which it did. Rayburn had
possession of the bonds for the purpose of purchasing therewith, for the benefit of Mrs. Kitchen, lands of the railroad
company which had issued them, "at or near the average
price of five dollars per acre." Instead of doing this, as he
was bound, he sold them to Bedford for six cents on the
dollar; and Bedford sold them to Webber at a hundred and
fifty per cent. advance, both knowing the object for which
Rayburn held the bonds. A clearer case of fraudulent breach
of trust, it is difficult to conceive, and the defendants being
participes crinzinis, were bound to deliver the bonds and coupons to the plaintiff when he demanded them.
It is contended that by the fair construction of the paper,
Rayburn was to sell the bonds for"what he could get, and
invest the proceeds in lands, and non constat that he has not
done so; or at all events, the defendants, as purchasers from
Rayburn, have good title to the bonds, because he was invested with a trust to sell them. But the paper does not so
read. It declares that Rayburn had received "the sum of
one hundred and nineteen thousand dollars in bonds of the
Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, and fifty thousand
four hundred and five dollars of coupons, &c., amounting in
the agg regate to the sum of one hundred and sixty-nine
thousand four hundred and five dollars, which said sum, I
promise to expend in the purchase of lands, &c., at or near
the average price of five dollars per acre." In other words,
he was to purchase lands with the bonds and coupons at five
dollars per acre, not with the proceeds of them, after being
sold at a nominal price. He was to procure an acre for
every five dollars of the bonds and coupons.. That was the
trust which he assumed. If he was unable to perform it,
he should have returned the bonds, and not have sold them
at six cents on the dollar. The defendants, when they
bought them under these circumstances, did so at their
peril, and were bound to restore the bonds to the plaintiff.
VOL. xi.
27

DAVENPORT V. LAMB.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Having refused to do this, they were liable to him for the
fair value of the bonds at the time of the demand.
Mrs. Kitchen was not a necessary party to the suit. The
bonds were never hers in law. By the laws of Arkansas, a
husband cannot legally make a gift to his wife during the
marriage. He could not do so at the common law, and the
statute of Arkansas which enables a married woman to take
and hold property in her own right, expressly provides that
no conveyance from a man to his wife, directly or indirectly,
shall entitle her to any benefits or privileges of the act.*
Perhaps he might have made an equitable gift for her
benefit. But in this case, the husband had not parted with
the legal title to the bonds, and had a right to call any person to account who unlawfully converted them.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with directions to award a venire de

noVo.
Mr. Justice STRONG stated that he was unable to construe the contract upon which the plaintiff relied, as it was
construed by a majority of the court, and for that reason,
among others, he dissented from the judgment.

DAVENPORT V.

LAMB ET AL.

1. The act of Congress of 1836 authorizing the issue of patents for land in
the name of deceased parties, who in their lifetime became entitled to

such patents, applies to patents under the act of Congress of September
27th, 18.50, called the Donation Act of Oregon ; and such patents enure
to the parties designated in the Donation Act, and not solely to the parties designated in the act of 1836.
2. The Donation Act declared that in case husband or wife should die before
a patent issues, the survivor and children, or heirs, should be entitled
to the share or interest of the deceased in equal proportions, except

where the deceased should otherwise dispose of the property by will;
held that each of the children, and the surviving husband or wife, took
* Digest of Statutes of Arkansas, p. 765, tit. Married Women.

