Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. RUSSELL.
Syllabus.

sums insured became a purely legal demand, and if so, it is
difficult to see what remedy, more nearly perfect and complete, the appellants can have than is afforded them by their
right to make defence at law, which secures to them the
right ff trial by jury.*
Wheie a party, if his theory of the controversy is correct,
has a good defence at law to "a purely legal demand," he
should be left to that means of defence, as he has no occasion
to resort to a court of equity for relief, unless he is prepared
to allege and prove some special circumstances to show that
he may suffer irreparable injury if he is denied a preventive
remedy. Nothing of the kind is to be apprehended in this
case, as the contracts, embodied in the policies, are to pay
certain definite sums of money, and the record shows that
an action at law has been commenced by the insured to recover the amounts, and that the action is now pending in the
court whose decree is under re-examination
Courts of equity unquestionably havejurisdiction of fraud,
misrepresentation, and fraudulent suppression of material
facts in matters of contract, but where the cause of action is
"a purely legal demand," and nothing appears to show that
-the defence at law may not be as perfect and complete as in
equity, a suit in equity will not be sustained in a Federal
court, as it is clear that the case, under such circumstances,
is controlled by the sixteenth section of the Judiciary Act.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. RuSSELL.
1. Where the government, in emergencies, takes private property into its
use, a contract to reimburse the owner is implied.
2. The United States having, under a military emergency, during the rebellion, taken into its service certain already officered and manned steamers
* Foley v. Hill, 2 House of Lords Cases, 45; Thrale v. Ross, 3 Brown's
Chancery Cases, 56; Arundel v. Holmes, 4 Beavan, 326; Norris v. Day, 4
Young & Collyer, 475.

UNITED STATES

v.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
of a citizen of the United States, under circumstances which on a petition
filed by the owner in the Court of Claims for remuneration, led the
court to find "that when the same were respectively taken into the service of the United States, the officers acting for the government did not
intend to 'appropriate' them, nor even their services, but did intend
to compel the captains and crews with such steamers to performcthe services needed, and to pay a reasonable compensation for such services,
and that such was the understanding of the claimant;" and the property
having been returned to the exclusive possession and control of its owner
so soon as the emergency was over, Held, that there was no such "appropriation" as brought the case within the act of July 4th, 1864, which
enacts "that the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims shall not extend to
or include any claim against the United States growing out of . . the
appropriationof property by the army or navy . . engaged in the suppression of the rebellion."

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By the act of Congress of 1855,* constituting the said court,
jurisdiction is given 'to it to hear and determine all claims
against the United States, "founded on any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the government of the
United States."
A subsequent act, however, the act of July 4th, 1864,t
enacts:
APPEAL

"That the jurisdiction of the said court shall not extend to
or include any claim against the United States, growing out of
the destruction or appropriation of, or damage to property by
the army or navy, or any part of the army or navy engaged in
the suppression of the rebellion, from the commencement to the
close thereof."
In this state of the court's jurisdiction, one Russell filed a
petition in that court for compensation for the seizure and
use of three steamers belonging to him, by the military
authorities. The first was the steamer J. EH. Russell, which
was taken by the Assistant Quartermaster of the United
States army at St. Louis, on the 2d of October, 1863, under
the following letter:
* 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

t 13 Id. 381.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED

STATES V. RUSSELL.

Statement of the case.
"CAPTAIN

OF THE STEAMER S. H.

RUSSELL.

"SiRn: Imperative military necessity requires that you make
no arrangements for private freight without first consulting
this office, and obtaining permission in writing so to do.
"tYours very respectfully,
"CHARLES

PARSONS,

"Captain and Assistant Quartermaster."

The steamer .was detained in the* service of the United
States in pursuance to this order, being used in the transportation of government freight from the 2d of October until
the 20th of November, 1863.
The second vessel was the, steamer Liberty, taken on the
following order:
9TRAISPORTATioI DEPARTMENT,
"ST. Louis, Mo., Sept. 2d, 1864.
"CAPTAIN

OF THE STEAMER LIBERTY.

"SIR: Imperative military necessity requires the services of
your steamer for a brief period. Your captain will report at
this office at once, in person, first stopping the receipt of freight,
should the steamer be so doing.
11L. S.

METCALF,

"Captain and Assistant Quartermaster."

In pursuance of this order the steamer was taken into the
service of the United States, and was engaged in it for
twenty-six days. The steamer was subsequently again taken
into the service of the United States at New Orleans, under
orders from an assistant quartermaster in the army.
The third steamer was the "Time and Tide," which was
taken into the service of the United States, in pursuance of
a military order issued by an assistant quartermaster in the
United States army at New Orleans, on the 21st of March,
1864, and continued in the service of the United States in
pursuance of such order for the period of sixty days.
The court found:
"That during the time each of said steamers was in the service of the United States, as hereinbefore stated, they were in
command of the claimant, or of some person employed by him,
subject to his control an4 under his pay.
40
VOL. mIr.

UNITED

STATES V.

R USSELL.

ESup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

"That in the case of each of these steamers, at the times
when the same were respectively taken into the service of the
United States, the officers acting for the United States, did not
intend to 'appropriate' these steamers to the United States, nor even
their services; but they did intend to compel the captains and crews
with such steamers to perform the services needed, and to pay a reasonable compensationfor such services, and such was the understanding of the claimant; and that each of said steamers, so soon as
the services for which they were respectively required had been
performed, were returned to the exclusive possession and control of the claimant."
The court, upon these facts, decided, as a conclusion of
law, that there was not such an "appropriation" of the
claimant's property as prohibited the court from taking jurisdiction of the case under the act of July 4th, 1864, but
that there was such an employment and use of the claimant's
property in the service of the United States as raises auiimplied promise on the part of the United States to reimburse
the claimant for the money expended by him for and on behalf of the United States, and also a fair and reasonable
compensation for the services of the claimant and for the
services of said steamers.
Judgment was accordingly rendered against the United
States for the sum of $41,855, and from that judgment the
United States appealed, and assigned as error that, under
the already quoted act of July 4th, 1864, the Court of Claims
bad no jurisdiction of the claim of the appellee against the
government.
Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General,and l'r. C. H[.BHill,
Assistant Attorney-General,for the United States, appellant:
The construction put upon the act of July 4th, by this
court, in _Filor v. United States,* is decisive of the present
question. "The term ' appropriation,' " the court there says,
"is of the broadest import; it includes all taking and use of
property by the army or navy, in the cause of the war, not
* 9

Wallace 49.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. IRUSSELL.
Opinion of the court.

authorized by contract with the government." That case
was a temporary occupation of real property by the Quartermaster's Department, under a lease which was held to be
invalid.
Messrs. Weed, Cooley, Clarke, and Corwine, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD deliveredthe opinion of the court.*
Private property, the Constitution provides, shall not be
taken for public use without just compensation, and it is
clear that there are few safeguards ordained in the fundamental law against oppression and the exercise of arbitrary
power of more ancient origin or of greater value to the citizen, as the provision for compensation, except in certain
extreme cases, is a condition precedent annexed to the right
of the government to deprive the owner of his property
without his consent.t Extraordinary and unforeseen occasions arise, however, beyond all doubt, in cases of extreme
necessity in time of war or of immediate and impending
public danger, in which private property may be impressed
into the public service, or may be seized and appropriated
to the public use, or may even be destroyed without the consent of the owner. Unquestionably such extreme cases may
arise, as where the property taken is imperatively necessary
in time of war to construct defences for the preservation of
a military post at the moment of an impending attack by
the enemy, or for food or medicine for a sick and famishing
army utterly destitute and without other means of such supplies, or to transport troops, munitions of war, or clothing
to reinforce or supply an army in a distant field, where the
necessity for such reinforcement or supplies is extreme and
imperative, to enable those in command of the post to maintain their position or to repel an impending attack, provided
it appears that other means of transportation could not be
* This case was decided at the close of the last term, December Term,
1870, No. 220.
t 2 Kent, 11th ed. 389; 2 Story on the Constitution, Sd ed. 596.

'UNITED STATES V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

obtained, and that the transports impressed for the purpose
were imperatively required for such immediate use. Where
such an extraordinary and unforeseen emergency occurs in
the public service in time of war no doubt is entertained
that the power of the government is ample to supply for the
moment the public wants in that way to the extent of the
immediate public exigency, but the public danger must be
immediate, imminent, and impending, and the emergency
in the public service must be extreme and imperative, and
such as will not admit of delay or a resort to any other source
of supply, and the circumstances must be such as imperatively require the exercise of that extreme power in respect
to the particular property so impressed, appropriated, or destroyed. Exigencies of the kind do arise in time of war or
impending public danger, but it is the emergency, as was
said by a great magistrate, th'at gives the right, and it is
clear that the emergency must be shown to exist before the
taking can be justified. Such a justification may be shown,
and when shown the rule is well settled that the officer
taking private property for such a purpose, if the emergency
is fully proved, is not a trespasser, and that the government
is bound to make full compensation to the owner.*
Three steamboats, owned by the appellee, during the rebellion, were employed as transports in the public service
for the respective periods mentioned in the record, without
any agreement fixing the compensation to which the owner
should be entitled. Certain payments for the services were
made in each case by the government to the owner, but he
claimed a larger sum, and the demand being refused he instituted the present suit. Prior to the orders hereinafter
mentioned the steamboats were employed by the owner in
carrying private freights, and the findings of the court below show that he quit that employment in each case and
went into the public service in obedience to the military
order of an assistant quartermaster of the army. Reference
to one of the orders will be sufficient, as the others are not
* Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 Howard, 134.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the court.

substantially different. Take the second, for example, which
reads as follows, as reported in the transcript: "Imperative
military necessity requires the services of your steamer for
a brief period; your captain will report at this office at once
in person, first stopping the receipt of freight, should the
steamer be so doing." Pursuant to that order, or one of
similar import in substance and effect, the respective steamboats were impressed into the public service and employed
as transports for carrying government freight for the several
periods of time set forth in the findings of the court.
Throughout the whole time the steamboats were so employed in the military service they were in command of the
owner as master, or of some one employed by him and under
his pay and control, and the findings of the court show that
he manned and victualled the steamboats and paid all the
running expenses during the whole period they were so employed. Unexplained and uncontradicted the findings of
the court show a state of facts which plainly lead to the conclusion that the emergency was such that it justified the
officers in each case in ordering the steamboat into the service of the United States, as the orders purport to have been
issued from an imperative military necessity, and if so they
show beyond all doubt that the officers who issued them
were not trespassers, and that the government of the United
States is bound to make full compensation to the owner for
the services rendered.
Such a taking of private property by the government,
when the emergency of the public service in time of war or
impending public danger is too urgent to admit of delay, is
everywhere regarded as justified, if the necessity for the use
of the property is imperative and immediate, and the danger,
as heretofore described, is impending, and it is equally clear
that the taking of such property under such circumstances
creates an obligation on the part of the government to reimburse the owner to the full value of the service. Private
rights, under such extreme and imperious circumstances,
must give way for the time to the public good, but the government must make full restitution for the sacrifice.

UNITED STATES V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Beyond doubt such an obligation raises an implied promise
on the part of the United States to reimburse the owner for
the use of the steamboats and for his own services and expenses, and for the services of the crews during the period
the steamboats were employed in transporting government
freight pursuant to those orders. Indebitalus assunapsit is
founded upon what the law terms an implied promise on
the part of the defendant to pay what, in good conscience,
he is bound to pay to the plaintiff, but the law will not imply
a promise to pay unless some duty creates such an obligation, and it never will sustain any such implication in a case
where the act of payment would be contrary to duty or contrary to law.*
Tested by those rules it is quite clear that the obligation
in this case to reimburse the owner of the steanboats was
of a character to raise an implied promise on the part of the
United States to pay a reasonable compensation for the service rendered, and if so, then it follows that the decree was
properly made in favor of the plaintiff, unless it appears
that the adjustment of the claim belonged to Congress or to
the executive department, and not to the Court of Claims.
Jurisdiction is vested in the Court of Claims, by the act
of Congress establishing the court, to hear and determine all
claims founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract express or implied with the government of the United States,
which may be suggested to it by a petition regularly filed
in the court.t Express authority, therefore, is given to the
court by that act to hear and determine claims founded upon
a contract with the government of the United States, whether
express or implied. Claims of the kind before the court
would certainly be within the jurisdiction of that court were
it not that Congress has passed a later act restricting to
some extent the jurisdiction conferred by that provision.
By the act of July 4th, 1864, it is provided that the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims shall not extend to or include
* Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 478.

f" 10 Star. at Large, 612.

Dec. 1871.]

'NITED

STATES V. RUSSELL.

'631

Opinion of the court.

any claim against the United States growing out of the destruction or appropriation of, or damage to, property by the
army or navy, or any part of the army or navy, engaged in

the suppression of the rebellion, from the commencement
thereof to the close.*
Special reference is made in behalf of the appellants to
that provision, and the argument is that it is decisive to
show that the decree in this case is erroneous. Support to
that proposition is chiefly drawn from the signification attributed to the word appropriation, and from certain remarks
of this court in one of its recent decisions.t Those remarks
were made in respect to a claim where a military order was
issued for the seizure of certain real estate for the purpose
of compelling a lease of the premises, and the findings of
the court show that the agreement for the lease was concluded under the p.ressure of that order. Apart from that
it also appeared that the premises belonged to an insurgent
in the rebel army, and the Court of Claims also found that
the contract was void on that account. Applied as those
remarks must be to the case then under consideration no
doubt is entertained that they were correct, but they cannot
be applied to the case before the court, as the conclusion to
which they would tend would contradict the finding of the
court below in matters of fact, which cannot be reviewed in
this court.
Briefly stated, the findings of the court in that behalf are
as follows: That the military officers did not intend to appropriate the steamboats to the United States, nor even their
services; that they did intend to compel the masters and
crews, with the steamers, to perform the services needed and
that the United States should pay a reasonable compensation
for such services, and that such was the understanding of
the owner; that the steamers, as soon as the services for
which they were required had been performed, were returned to the exclusive possession and control of the owner.
They were equipped, victualled, and manned by the owner,
it 18 Star. at Large, 381.

t Filor v. United States, 9 "Wallace, 48.

UNITED

STATES V.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and he, or persons by him appointed, continued in their
command throughout the entire period of the service. He
yielded at once to the military order and entered into the
service of the government, and the court here fully concur
with the Court of Claims that there was not such an appropriation of the steamboats or of the services of the masters
and crews as prohibited the court below from taking jurisdiction of the case. On the contrary, the court is of the
opinion that the findings of the Court of Claims show that
the employment and use of the steamboats were such as
raise an implied promise on the part of the United States to
reimburse the owner for the services rendered and the expenses incurred, as allowed by the Court of Claims. Valuable services, it is conceded, were rendered by the appellee,
and it is not pretended that the amount allowed is excessive.
Neither of the steamers was destroyed nor is anything
claimed as damages, and inasmuch as the findings show that
an appropriation of the steamers was not intended and that
both parties understood that a reasonable compensation for
the services was to be paid by the United States, the court
is of the opinion that the objection to the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims cannot be sustained, as the claim is not for
"the destruction or appropriation of, or damage to, property
by the army or navy, or any part of the army or navy, engaged in the suppression of the rebellion." Viewed in that
light, the case is free of all difficulty, as the jurisdiction of
the court, by the express words of the act of Congress, extends to claims founded upon an implied contract as well as
upon that which is express.
Certain other acts of Congress have been passed in respect
to property impressed or employed in the suppression of the
rebellion, but it is not necessary to refer to them, as they
have no application to any question presented in this record.
DECREE

[See the next two cases.]

AFFIRMED.

