[Sup. Ct.

WEBB V. SHARP.
Statement of the case.

WEBB, TRUSTEE, V. SHARP, MARSHAL.
In the District of Columbia a landlord has a tacit lien for his rent on the
chattels of his tenant on the demised premises, from the time the
chattels are placed therein until the expiration of three months after
the rent becomes due; which lien has priority over a mortgage on the
chattels given after they are placed on the premises. But it seems that
a bonadfide sale or removal of the goods would discharge them from the
lien.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia;
the case being this:
By the act of Congress, passed February 22d, 1867,* the
right of distress for rent in the District of Columbia was abolished, and instead thereof, it was enacted, "that the landlord shall have a tacit lien upon such of the tenant's personal
chattels upon the premises (s are subject to execution for debt,
to commence with the tenancy and continue for three months
after the rent is due, and until the termination of any action
for such rent brought within said three months." And
under the act this lien may be enforced:
(1.) By attachment, to be issued upon affidavit that the
rent is due and unpaid; or, if not due, that the defendant is
about to remove or sell all, or some, of said chattels; or,
(2.) By judgment against the tenant and execution, to be
levied on said chattels, or any of them, in whosesoever hands
they may be found; or,
(3.) By action against any purchaser of any of said chattels, with notice of the lien.
This act of Congress being in force, one Polkinhorn,
owner of a house in Washington City, leased it to Snow et al.
for a printing-office, and they afterwards bought and placed
a printing-press therein. Subsequently, on the 11th of December, 1867, they borrowed money, and executed to one
Webb a deed of trust to secure the repayment of the loan,
the press, however, still remaining on the premises leased.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 404,

12.

Dec. 1871.]

WEBB V.

SHARP.

Opinion of the court.

The loan, though it became due, was never paid. And the
tenants falling behind in payment of their rent also, Polkinhorn, their landlord, attached the printing-press; the rent
for which the attachment was made having accrued in 1869,
within three months prior to the issuing of the attachment.
Judgment being perfected on the attachment a writ offleri
facias was issued to the marshal of the District, who levied
on the press, then still remaining upon the premises. Hereupon Webb, the trustee, under the deed of trust, issued a
replevin against the marshal in the court below. That court
adjudged that the plaintiff should take nothing by his suit,
and that the marshal have a return of the printing-press.
From this judgment Webb brought the case here.
17I1r. S. S. .Hencle,for the plaintiff in error:
The deed of trust conveyed the printing-press completely
out of Snow et al., and vested it completely in Webb, as
trustee. It was no longer "the tenant's personal chattels
on the premises, subject to execution for debt." Yet it is
only on such chattels that the lien is given by the statute.
Hr.

F. Mattingly, contra.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The question is, whether the lien of the landlord is, or is
not, superior to that of the trustee. The Supreme Court of
the District decided that it is, and in that opinion we concur.
It will be seen by reference to the act of Congress passed
February 22d, 1867, and which governs the subject, that it
is clear and explicit that the landlord shall have a lien upon
the tenant's chattels on the premises (liable to execution),
"to commence with the tenancy and continue for three
months after the rent is due." It also points out how,
within the three months, the, lien is to be enforced, namely,
by attachment, &c. In this case the chattel was on the
premises, it was attached within three months after the rent
accrued, the suit on the attachment was regularly prosecuted
to judgment, and the marshal took the chattel in execution.

WEBB V. SHARP.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case is strictly within the language of the act, unless
the press was not "such a chattel of the tenant as is subject
to execution."
The plaintiff in error contends that the deed of trust,
being a valid instrument, the property became vested in the
trustee, and the press was not liable to be taken in execution for the debts of the tenant, and, therefore, that the act
does not give the landlord a lien, because the lien given by
the act is only upon such chattels of the tenant as are subject
to execution.
The deed of trust was, in effect and purpose, nothing but
a mortgage. It was given to secure the payment of a loan.
It was an express lien created by deed to secure the perforinance of a contract. The landlord's lien is an implied
or tacit lien, created by law to secure the performance of
another contract, and, of the two, the landlord's is the prior
lien, and cannot be displaced by the other. The landlord's
lien attached to the printing-press the moment it was placed
upon the demised premises, before the mortgage was given,
and as long as it remained on the premises the lien continued
until each instalment of rent became due and for three
months afterwards, and then ceased as to that instalment.
Iad the tenant made an absolute and bond fide sale of the
press, the case would have been a different one. The law
protects bondfide purchasers without notice of the landlord's
lien. Goods sold in the ordinary course of trade undoubtedly become discharged from the lien; otherwise business
could not be safely carried on. This was so decided by the
Supreme Court of Iowa in giving construction to a similar
law of that State.* But neither the words nor the reason
of the law call for a postponement of the landlord's lien to
that of a subsequent mortgage or execution creditor, so long
as the goods remain on the demised premises and continue
to be the property of the tenant.
As to the suggestion that this press was not subject to
execution, we apprehend that a deed of trust does not pro* Grant v. Whitwell, 9 Iowa, 156.

Dec. 1871.]

BOYDEN ?. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

tect goods from sale by execution. The owner has still an
interest, or equity of redemption in them, which is subject
to sale; and a purchaser at an execution sale would be entitled to rddeem the goods from the deed of trust by paying
the debt secured thereby. When the law imposes the lien
only upon such goods of the tenant upon the premises as are
subject to execution, it means to exclude goods which are exempt from execution by some gener.l or special law, such
as those which a man is entitled to. retain, against all executions, for the use of his family or the practice of his trade.
JUDGMENT AF.FiRmED.

BOYDEN ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
1. A receiver of public moneys of the United States does not stand in the
position of an ordinary bailee; he is bound to higher responsibility.
Upon a suit, therefore, on a bond "for the faithful discharge of his
trust," such a receiver cannot discharge himself by showing that he was
suddenly beset in his office, thrown down, bound, gagged, and that
against all the defence he could make the money was violently and
without his fault taken from him.
2. Though statutes oblige receivers to pay over when required by the Secretary of the Treasury, a declaration, stating that the receiver had been
often requested to pay is enough after verdict, there having been general
regulations in force at the time the bond here sued on was given, requiring receivers to pay at stated times.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
The United States sued Boyden and his sureties on his
official bond as receiver of public moneys, for the district of
lands subject to sale at Eau Claire, in the State of Wisconsin. The bond was given pursuant to the 6th section of the
act of May 10th, 1800.* The section enacts:
IN error

"The receiver of public moneys shall, before he enters upon
the duties of his office, give bond with approved security for the
faithful discharge of his trust."
* 2 Stat. at Large, 7M.
VOL. Xii.

2

