WILMINGTON RAILROAD V. REID.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

WILMINGTON RAILROAD V. REID, SHERIFF.
1. A statute exempting all the property of a railroad corporation from taxation, exempts not only the rolling stock and real estate owned by it and
required by the company for the successful prosecution of its business,
but its franchise also.
2. A charter to a railroad company containing such an exemption, is a contract; and a law subsequently passed, laying a tax on the company's
franchise, rolling stock, or real property, violates the obligation of the
contract, and is void.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of North Carolina; the case
being thus:
In 1853 the legislature of lNorth Carolina chfartered the
Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Company. One section
of the charter ran thus:
"It shall be lawful for the president and directors to purchase
with the funds of the company, and place on the said railroad,

all machines, wagons, vehicles, carriages, and teams of any description whatsoever which may be deemed necessary for the
purposes of transportation; and all the property purchased by
the said president and directors, and that which may be given
to the company, and the works constructed under the authority
of this act, and all profits accruing on the said works and the
said property shall be vested in the respective shareholders of
the company and their successors and assigns forever, in proportion to their respective shares; and the shares shall be deemed
personal property; and the property of said company and the shares
therein shall be exempt from any public charge or tax whatsoever."
With this charter in force, the franchise and rolling stock
of the company were assessed, under a subsequent law and
pursuant to it, for taxation by the State of North Carolina
and the county of Halifax, in two parts-one, the apportioned share for the county of Halifax, assessed-n each case
upon the entire franchise and rolling stock jointly, and the
other a tax assessed upon certain lots of land in Halifax
County, appurtenant to and forming a part of the property
of the company, and necessary to its business.

Dec. 1871.]

WILMINGTON RAILROAD V. REID.
Argument in favor of the right to tax.

On application for injunction against one Reid, sheriff,
who was going to seize the company's property for nonpayment of the tax-the application for the injunction being
made on the ground that the subsequent law impaired the
obligation of a contract-the Supreme Court of the State
adjudged that the law did not do this, and that the tax was
valid. The case was accordingly now brought here by the
company to review that judgment.
It may be here added that provisions exempting the property of companies chartered by it, exist in the cases of numerous companies incorporated by the legislature of North
Carolina; beginning with the charter to the Dismal Swamp
Canal Company, A. D. 1790. In some cases the provision
exempted the company from all taxes forever; in others but
for a limited time. In some, all dividends were exempted;
in others, dividends when not exceeding a certain rate per
cent. Such exemptions are more observable in earlier times
than in later ones.
01r. W. H. Battle, in support of the ruling below:
In the Binghamton Bridge Case,* it is said by this court
"that all rights which are asserted against the State must
be clearly defined, and not raised by inference or presumption; and if the charter is silent about a power, it does not
exist." The reason for such a doctrine is obvious. It is
that the taxing power is one of the highest and most important attributes of sovereignty; essential to the establishment
and continued existence of the government. No government can divest itself altogether of such a power. Concede,
that it may, by a contract for an adequate consideration,
bind itself for a longer or a shorter period, not to exercise
its taxing power at all, or not beyond a certain extent, upon
certain persons or things. Still this is a dangerous restriction upon its power, because the necessities of the government cannot always be foreseen. In the.changes and chances
of things, those.who have charge of the administration may
* 3 Wallace, 75.

WILMINGTON RAILROAD

v.

REID.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

have need of all the possible resources of the country to save
it from great disaster, if not from ruin.*
Now the franchise of the corporation is something distinct from its properly, and the distinction is recognized in
adjudged cases.t In this case the tax is upon the franchise. The exemption of the charter extends only to the
property, leaving the franchise or body politic itself liable
to be taxed; just as an individual might have his property
exempt while the State might tax his poll ad libitur.1 In
view of the great explicitness of language required to divest a State of so necessary an attribute of sovereignty,
we think that nothing less than the exemption in terms
of the franchise as well as of the property of a corporation
from taxation, can or ought to relieve it from the burden of
contributing its just proportion towards the support of the
government.ยง
lMessrs. Carlisle, McPherson, and B. ..

Mloore, contra.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been so often decided by this court that a charter
of incorporation granted by a State creates a contract between the State and the corporators, which the State cannot
violate, that it would be a work of supererogation to repeat
the reasons on which the argument is founded. It is true
that when a corporation claims an exemption from taxation,
it must show that the power to tax has been clearly relinquished by the State, and if there be a reasonable doubt
about this having been done, that doubt must be solved in
* State v. Petway, 2 Jones's N. C. Equity, 396; Bank of Pennsylvania v.
Commonwealth, 19 Pennsylvania State, 144; Lord Middleton v. Lambert,
1 Adolphus & Ellis, 401; Christ Church v. County of Philadelphia, 24
Howard, 300.
t State v. Rives, 5 Iredell, 297-Revised Code of 1856, ch. 26,
5 to 10;
State v. Petway, 2 Jones's N. C. Equity, 396; Attorney-General v. Bank of
Charlotte, 4 Id. 287.
: Union Bank of Tennessee v. State, 9 Yerger, 490. Home of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wallace, 430; The Washington
University v. Rouse, lb. 439.

Dec. 1871.]

WILMINGTON RAILROAD v. REID.

267

Opinion of the court.

favor of the State. If, however, the contract is plain and
unambiguous, and the meaning of the parties to it can be
clearly ascertained, it is the duty of the court to give effect
to it, the same as if it were a contract between private persons, without regard to its supposed injurious effects upon
the public interests.
It may be conceded that it were better for the interest of
the State, that the taxing power, which is one of the highest
and most important attributes of sovereignty, should on no
occasion be surrendered. In the nature of things the necessities of the government cannot always be foreseen, and in
the changes of time, the ability to raise revenue from every
species of property may be of vital importance to the State,
but the courts of the country are not the proper tribunals
to apply the corrective to improvident legislation of this
character. If there be no constitutional restraint on the
action of the legislature on this subject, there is no remedy,
except through the influence of a wise public sentiment,
reaching and controlling the conduct of the law-making
power.
There is no difficulty whatever in this case. The General
Assembly of North Carolina told the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad Company, in language which no one can misunderstand, that if they would complete the work of internal
improvement for which they were incorporated, their property and the shares of their stockholders should be forever
exempt from taxation. This is not denied, but it is contended that the subsequent legislation does not impair the
obligation of the contract, and this presents the only question in the case. The taxes imposed ai'e upon the franchise
and rolling stock of the company, and upon lots of land appurtenant to and forming part of the property of the company, and necessary to be used in the successful operation
of its business. It certainly requires no argument to show
that a railroad corporation cannot perform the functions for
which it was created without owning rolling stock, and a
limited quantity of real estate, and that these are embraced
in the general term property. Property is a word of large

268

WILMINGTON RAILROAD V. REID.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

import, and in its application to this company included all
the real and personal estate required by it for the successful
prosecution of its business. If it had appeared that the
company had acquired either real or personal estate beyond
its legitimate wants, it is very clear that such acquisitions
would not be within the protection of the contract. But no
such case has arisen, and we are only called upon to decide
upon the case made by the record, which shows plainly
enough that the company has not undertaken to abuse the
favor of the legislature.
It is insisted, however, that the tax on the franchise is
something entirely distinct from the property of the corporation, and that the legislature, therefore, was not inhibited from taxing it. This position is equally unsound with
the others taken in this case. Nothing is better settled than
that the franchise of a private corporation-which in its application to a railroad is the privilege of running it and taking fare and freight-is property, and of the most valuable
kind, as it cannot be taken for public use even without compensation.* It is true it is not the same sort of property as
the rolling stock, road-bed, and depot grounds, but it is
equally with them covered by the general term "the property of the company," and, therefore, equally within the
protection of the charter.
It is needless to argue the point further. It is clear that
the legislation in controversy did impair the obligation of
the contract, which the General Assembly of North Carolina
made with the plaintiff in error, and it follows that the j udgment of the Supreme Court must be REVERSED, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

* Redfield on Railways, 129,

70.

