Dec. 1871.]

ROBINSON V. UNITED STATES.

36$,

Statement of the case.

the offences which are pardoned are declared to be "1treason
against the United States' or adhering to their enemies during the late civil war." As there is no pretence that Gay,
the claimant, was one of the persons thus described, or was
guilty of, or charged with, the offence which was pardoned,
the proclamation can have no application to him or to the
present case.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED.

ROBINSON V. UNITED STATES.
1. "Where a party agreed to deliver so many bushels of "first quality clear
barley," the contract not stating whether the barley was to be delivered
in sacks or in bulk, i. e., loose, held that evidence was properly received
to show a usage of trade to delivei in sacks; such evidence tending not
to contradict the agreement, but only to give it precision on an important point where by its terms it had been left undefined.
2. There is no rule, in the nature of a rule of law, that a usage cannot be
established by a single witness.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;

the case. being thus:
In June, 1867, Robinson & Co., merchants of San Francisco, entered into a written agreement with Major T. T.
-Hoyt, assistant quartermaster of the United States, "to deliver," on his order, "1,000,000 bushels of first quality clear
barley." The barley, according to the terms expressed in
the contract, was to be delivered between the 1st of July,
1867, and the 30th June, 1868, at such times and in such
quantities as might be required, for the use of the government troops, and at certain posts named; the precise points
at those posts to be designated by the acting quartermasters
at the posts themselves. But there was no specification in
the instrument of any particular manner in which the barley
was to be delivered, as whether in sacks or loose, and in
what is known as "bulk."
Under this contract Robinson & Co. delivered, in sacks, all

ROBINSON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the barley required between July 1st, 1867, and the 1st of
January, 1868; how much, exactly, did not appear, but it
was more than 30,000 pounds. On the 10th of January,
1868, being required to deliver 30,000 pounds more, they
tendered the quantity in bulk, that is to say, loose in wagons.
The officer at the post where it was tendered refused to receive it, because it was not in sacks. Thereupon the contractor refused to furnish any more, and abandoned his contract altogether.
On suit brought by the United States, the government
counsel asked a witness engaged in the grain business in
California in 1867 and 1868 this question:
"Do you know the usage of the trade with respect to the delivery of barley ?"
The question was objected to on the ground, among others,
that it was incompetent for the plaintiff to vary the terms of
the contract by a usage, but the objection was overruled.
The witness then testified that it was the custom in California, as of course, to deliver grain in sacks, and had always
been the custom; that he never knew it to be delivered in
any other way, unless by special agreement, the custom of
the trade being to deliver by sacks altogether; that there
had been a few experiments at shipping wheat in bulk, but
that these were exceptional, and that the vessels plying
around the bay were not constructed for thus carrying grain;
that sacks cost about 17 cents apiece, and held from 100 to
112 pounds.
There was no other witness produced to show the usage
set up. The court (which, by consent of the parties, had
been substituted in the place of a jury) found that, at the
time of this contract, it was the usage in California, and
always had been prior to that time, to deliver barley in
sacks, unless it was expressly stipulated otherwise in the
contract, and that, therefore, a tender in bulk did not satisfy
the contract.
Judgment being accordingly given for the United States,
the defendant brought the case here on exceptions to the
evidence and findings.

Dec. 1871.]

RoBINSON V. UNITED STATES.

865

Opinion of the court.

Mr. .E. L. Goold,for the plaint ff in error:
1. A usage, to amount to a custom, must be distinguished
by antiquity, certainty, uniformity, and notoriety. Smith
in his Leading Cases* and all the authorities thus declare.
Yet these qualities are not established by the case.
2. One witness, alone, cannot prove a custom, or any other
fact depending upon the quality of notoriety.t
Mr. G. I. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In Barnardv. Kellogg,j this court decided that proof of a
custom or usage inconsistent with a contract and which
either expressly or by necessary implication contradicts it,
cannot be received in evidence to affect it; and that usage
is not allowed to subvert the settled rules of law. But we
stated at the same time that custom or usage.was properly
received to ascertain and explain the meaning and intention
of the parties to a contract, whether written or parol, the
meaning of which could not be ascertained without the aid
of such extrinsic evidence, and that such evidence was thus
used on the theory that the parties knew of tle existence of
the custom or usage and contracted in reference to it. This
latter rule is as well settled as the former,ยง and under it the
evidence was rightly received.
It is obvious by the steps which the plaintiffs took to perform their contract, that there are two modes in which barley may be delivered, for they delivered part in sacks and
tendered part in bulk. And it is equally obvious, on account of the additional cost, that they would not have delivered the barley in sacks for a period of six months, if
the contract on its face was satisfied by a delivery in bulk.
* Vol. i, p. 842; note to Wigglesworth v. Dallison.

t Lee v. Merrick, 8 Wisconsin, 234; Halwerson v. Cole, 1 Spears; 321;
Wood v. Hickok, 2 Wendell, 501; Bissell v. Ryan, 23 Indiana, 669.
: 10 Wallace, 383.
1 Smith's Leading Cases, p. 386, 7th edition.

366

ROBINSON V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The contract, by its terms, is silent as to the mode of delivery, and although there are two modes in which this can
be done, yet they are essentially different, and one or the
other, and not both must have been in the mind of the parties
at the time the agreement was entered into. In the absence
of an express direction on the subject, extrinsic evidence
must of necessity be resorted to in order to find out which
mode was adopted by the parties, and what extrinsic evidence is better to ascertain this than that of usage? If a
person of a particular occupation in a certain place makes
an agreement by virtue of which something is to be done in
that place, and this is uniformly done in a certain way by
persons of the same occupation in the same place, it is but
reasonable to assume that the parties contracting about it,
and specifying no manner of doing it different from the
ordinary one, meant that the ordinary one and no other
should be followed. Parties who contract on a subjectmatter concerning which known usages prevail, by implication incorporate them into their agreements, if nothing is
said to the contrary.
The evidence in the present case did not tend to contradict
the contract, but to define its meaning, in an important point,
where, by its written terms, it was left undefined. This, it
is settled, may be done.
It is objected that the usage was proved by a single witness. But we cannot assert, as a rule of law governing
proof of usages of trade, that if a witness have a full knowledge and a long experience on the subject about which lie
speaks, and testifies explicitly to the antiquity, duration,
and universality of the usage and is uncontradicted, the
usage cannot be regarded by the jury as established. On
the contrary, the authorities are that in such a case it may
be.*
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

See 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 782, 7th edition; Vail v. Rice, I Selden,
156; Marston v. Bank of Mobile, 10th Alabama, 284; Partridge v. Forsyth,
29th Alabama, 200.

