Dec. 1871.]

SLAUGHTER'S

ADMINISTRATOR

V. GERSON.

379

Statement of the case.

base their reliance on the free and voluntary good faith of
the legislature. For the benefit of sheep-growers in some
States dogs are subjected to a severe tax. Could not the
legislature repeal such a law? If Congress establishes a
tariff for the protection of certain manfifactures, does that
amount to a contract not to change it?
In short, the law does not, in our judgment, belong to
that class of laws which can be denominated contracts, except so far as they have been actually executed and complied
with. There is no stipulation, express or implied, that it
shall not be repealed. General encouragements, held out
to all persons indiscriminately, to engage in a particular
trade or manufacture, whether such encouragement be in
the shape of bounties or drawbacks, or other advantage, are
always under the legislative control, and may be discontinued at any time.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR V. GERSON.
1. The misrepresentation which will vitiate a contract of sale, and prevent
a court of equity from aiding its enforcement, must relate to a material
matter constituting an inducement to the contract, and respecting which
the complaining party did not possess at hand the means of knowledge;
and it must be a misrepresentation upon which he relied, and by which
he was actually misled to his injury.
2. Where the means of knowledge are at hand and equally available to both
parties, and the subject of purchase is alike open to their inspection, if
the purchaser does not avail himself of these means and opportunities,
he will not be heard to say, in impeachment of the contract of sale, that
he was deceived by the vendor's misrepresentations.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
This was a suit in equity to enforce the lien of two mortgages upon two steamers. The case was thus:
On the 12th of July, 1864, one Slaughter, since deceased,
purchased of the complainant, Gerson, a steamboat named.

380

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR V. GERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the George Law, for the consideration of $40,000. Of this
sun he paid $15,000 in cash, and for the balance gave to
Gerson his bond, conditioned to pay the same in two instalments of $12,500 each in three and six months thereafter.
To secure the payment of these sums he at the same time
executed to Gerson two mortgages, one upon the steamboat
which he purchased, and the other upon a steamboat named
the Chester, which he formerly owned. The first instalment on the boat not being paid at its maturity, the present
bill was filed to enforce the mortgages by a sale of the steamboats, and the application of the proceeds to the demand of
the c6mplainant.
The answer of the defendant admitted the execution of
the bond, and mortgages, but set up, as a defence to their
enforcement, that they were obtained from him by misrepresentation and fraud, and set forth the particulars in which
such alleged misrepresentation and fraud consisted.
The substantial averments in this respect were these: That
the defendant had established a line of steamboats from Baltimore to various landings on Chester River, on the Eastern
Shore of Maryland, and landings on tributaries to that river;
that the most important of these landings was at Queenstown; that no boat drawing more than 33- feet of water
could reach the wharf at this place except in case of an extraordinary high tide; that he purchased the George Law
of the complainant for this route, upon a representation
that it drew only this number of feet when fully laden;
that this representation was filse and fraudulent, and that
the steamer, when placed on the route, grounded upon her
first trip in 5 feet of water; and that, so soon as precise information was obtained of this fact, the defendant called
upon the complainant to cancel the contract, offering at the
same time to return the steamboat purchased, but that the
complainant refused to comply with this proposition.
A great deal of evidence was taken in the case bearing
upon these allegations of misrepresentation and fraud. This
was in many particulars conflicting. Sbme of it tended to
show that when the negotiation was first entered upon,

Dec. 1871.]

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR V. GERSON.

881

Statement of the case.

Slaughter did particularly state that it was indispensable to
his purpose that the boat should not draw more than 8 feet
water; that upon Gerson's saying that the boat was cheap
at the price proposed for her, Slaughter said that he did not
want her at any price if she drew more than 83 feet; that
Gerson repeatedly said that she did not draw more; and
that if she did, Slaughter should have her for nothing. On
the other hand there was evidence which-if any conversation with Gerson, himself, had taken place at all-went to
show that he never stated more than that according to the
representation of the captain of the boat, she drew no more
than the desired depth of water; and that it was plain that
Gerson spoke only on the strength of what thus came to
him.
But whatever did or did not thus take place in the origin
of matters, it appeared that before the contract for the sale
was executed, and with the intention of examining the vessel, in view of a purchase, Slaughter himself went to New
York from Baltimore, where he resided, taking with him
two shipcarpenters and a square to measure the steamer;
his son, who afterwards was captain of the boat, accompanying the party. Whilst these persons were in New York,
every opportunity which they desired was given to them to
examine the vessel from one end to the other; and they
made an extended and careful examination accordingly.
They made a trip on her to one of the ports where she was
running, and measured her draft on two occasions; once
amidships, and once at the stern and bow. Gerson accompanied them on board, on their arrival in New York, and
told them to look for themselves, and to go anywhere they
pleased about the boat; that he was not "a steamboat man,"
and that he got all his information from the captain of the
boat, to whose statements he referred them. One of the
carpenters who accompanied Slaughter made a measurement of the boat while she was lying at the dock without
any load, and reported that she drew 4 feet 6 inches at midships. The other *of the carpenters made a measurement
forward and aft, and reported that the boat drew at both

882

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR V. GERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

places 3 feet 6 inches. Both of these measurements were
communicated to Slaughter, and the latter was accompanied with the declaration that the boat drew too much
water for his purposes. The captain of the boat also took
the defendant on to the dock where she was lying, and
showed him that she was coppered three feet and nine inches
from the keel, and that she showed her copper three inches
out of water.
The bill of sale given to Slaughter contained a detailed
description of the steamer, but did not state her draught.
The Circuit Court gave a decree for the complainant, and
from it the defendant appealed to this court.
Mr. William Schley, for the appellant :
All knew that Mr. Slaughter wanted a boat to ply on a
specified route, drawing, when laden, not more than 31- feet
water. The captain, of course, knew well that the draught
much exceeded this, and that the boat would not suit at all.
The doctrine of caveat em ptor ought not to be applied. Unless
the sea was calm-which does not appear-it was impossible
to make an accurate measurement of the draught of water.
Besides this, the rule of caveat emptor, however potent in
actions ex contractu, is, comparatively, of small force in an
action based on fraudulent misrepresentations.
But if there was no fraud on the part of Gerson or his
agent, still, it is clear, from the testimony, that Slaughter
would not have purchased the boat at any price, if he had
known that she would not answer the purpose for which he
wished to procure a boat. Upon the hypothesis that Gerson
was acting honestly, the case presented is one of mutual
mistake. Coming, as he has done into a court of conscience,
Gerson submits himself to its power to make him do what
is right, or to be left to his remedy at law. Foreclosure of
a mortgage is in the nature of a specific performance of a
contract, which will be refused, where the defendant has, by
mistake, not originating in mere carelessness, entered into
a contract framed differently from his own intention.*
"Willardv. Tayloe, 8 Wallace, 564.

Dec. 1871.]
-

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR V. GERSON.

3883

Opinion of the court.

Mr. B. W. Huntington, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
A large amount of evidence was taken in this case bearing upon the averments in the answer of misrepresentation
and fraud on the part of the complainant; and it is, in many
respects conflicting. But the rules of law applicable to
cases of alleged misrepresentation by a vendor with respect
to property sold are well settled, and render of easy solution
the questions upon which this case must turn.
The misrepresentation which will vitiate a contract of
sale, and prevent a court of equity from aiding its enforcement, must not only relate to a material matter constituting
an inducement to the contract, but it must relate to a matter
respecting which the complaining party did not possess at
hand the means of knowledge; and it, must be a misrepresentation upon which he relied, and by which he was actually misled to his injury. A court of equity will not undertake, any more than a court of law, to relieve a party from
the consequences of his own inattention and carelessness.
Where the means of knowledge are at hand and equally
available to both parties, and the subject of purchase is alike
open to their inspection, if the purchaser does not avail himself of these means and opportunities, he will not be heard
to say that he has been deceived by the vendor's misrepresentations. If, having eyes, he will not see matters directly
before them, where no concealment is made or attempted,
he will not be entitled to favorable consideration when he
complains that he has suffered from his own voluntary blindness, and been misled by overconfidence in the statements
of another. And the same rule obtains when the complaining party does not rely upon the misrepresentations, but
seeks from other quarters means of verification of the statements made, and acts upon the information thus obtained.
The facts disclosed by the uncontradicted testimony of
both parties bring this case clearly within the principle here
stated. Previous to the execution of the contract of purchase, and with the view of examining the steamboat, the

384

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR

V. GERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

defendant went from Baltimore to New York, taking with
him his son, who subsequently became captain of the boat,
and two shipearpenters, and a square to measure her draught
of water. Whilst there every opportunity was given him
to examine the boat with his carpenters, and a most thorough and careful examination was made by them. On two
occasions they measured the draught of the boat, and they
witnessed her speed by accompanying her on one of her
trips. The owner went with them to the boat on their arrival in New York, and told them to look for themselves, and
to go anywhere they pleased about her. If, under these
circumstances, the defendant did not learn everything about
her, and ascertain her true draught, it was his own fault, and
it would be against the plainest principles of justice to allow
him to set up, in impeachment of the validity of his contract, loose statements respecting the draught before its execution, even though they were false in point of fact.
In AUwood v. Small,* a case which received great consideration in the House of Lords, the defendant had sold to the
complainants, constituting a company of numerous persons,
certain freehold and leasehold property, including mines
and ironworks, and had made certain statements respecting
the capabilities of the property. The purchasers, not relying upon these statements, deputed some of their directors,
together with experienced agents, to ascertain the correctness of his statements. These persons examined the property and works and the accounts kept by the defendant,
receiving from him and his agents every facility and aid tbr
that purpose, and they reported that the defendant's statements were correct. Upon a bill filed to rescind the contract,
on the ground of fraud, the House of Lords decided that the
contract could not be rescinded, reversing, in that respect,
the decree of the Court of Exchequer, not merely because
there was no proof of fraud, but because the purchasers did
not rely upon the vendor's statements, but tested their accuracy; and, after having knowledge, or the means of knowl6 Clark & Finnelly, 232.

Dec. 1871.]

SLAUGHTER'S ADMINISTRATOR V.

GERSON.

885

Opinion of the court.

edge, declared that they were satisfied of their correctness,
holding that if a purchaser, choosing to judge for himself,
did not avail himself of the knowledge, or means of knowledge, open to him or to his agents, he could not be heard to
say he was deceived by the vendor's representations, the
doctrine of caveat emptor applying in such case, and the
knowledge of his own agents being as binding as his own
knowledge.
The doctrine, substantially as we have stated it, is laid
down in numerous adjudications. Where the means of-information are at hand and equally open to both parties, and
no concealment is made or attempted, the language of the
cases is, that the misrepresentation furnishes no ground for
a court of equity to refuse to enforce the contract of the
parties. The neglect of the purchaser to avail himself, in
all such cases, of the means of information, whether attributable to his indolence or credulity, takes from him all just
claim for relief.
We have thus far assumed that the evidence in the case
before us discloses false representations on the part of the
vendor, but justice to him requires us to say that the evidence is insufficient to warrant this conclusion. The vendor
stated to the purchaser that he was not a steamboat man,

meaning evidently, from the context, that he was not familiar with the particulars in regard to which the purchaser
desired information, and referred him to the statements of
the captain, at the same time inviting him and his party to
examine the boat in every particular. The measurement
made by one of his carpenters showed that the boat drew
four feet and six inches of water at midships whilst lying
unloaded at the dock. The measurement by the other carpenter showed that the boat then drew, forward and aft,
three feet and six inches, and both of these measurements
were reported to the defendant, and the latter was accompanied by the declaration that the -boat drew too much water
for his purpose. The captain of the boat also took the defendant on to the dock, by which the boat was lying, and

pointed out to him that she was coppered three feet and
\VoL. XIIE

26

ALEXANDER V. I 0ULET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nine inches from the keel, and that she then showed only
three inches out of water, and, of course, that she then
drew, forward and aft, unloaded, three feet and six inches.
The purchase was thus made by the defendant, with his
eyes open, after every opportunity had been afforded him
for the inspection of the vessel.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

ALEXANDER V. ROULET.
0

Prefects in California, however appointed or elected, had no power, after
the conquest of the country by the United States, to make grants of the
common or unappropriated lands of the pueblos within their jurisdiction. And titles derived from them cannot, unless assisted by legislation, be regarded as valid.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California.

Alexander brought ejectment against Roulet and others
in the court below to recover a piece of land in San Francisco, California. The title was thus: The conquest of California was complete, as decided by this court,* July 7th,
1846. On the 12th of January, 1850, Horace Hawes, at that
time, by virtue of an appointment from the then military
governor of the then Territory of California, and an election
by the people of the district, acting as the prefect of the district embracing the then pueblo, now city of San Francisco,
granted to Edward Carpenter the premises in controversy.
The title of Carpenter, thus acquired, became vested in the
plaintiff. The premises were within the limits of the said
pueblo, now city of San Francisco.
The court gave judgment for the defendant, holding,
among other things, that although each prefect of California, while the same was part of the Mexican territory,

had power to make grants of the common and unappropriated lands of the pueblos within their jurisdiction, yet that
* Stearns o. United States, 6 Wallace, 590.

