Dec. 1871.]

HALL

&

LONG

V.

RAILROAD

COMPANIES.

367

Argument in favor of the Insurance Company.

HALL & LONG V. THE RAILROAD COMPANIES.
An insurer of goods, consumed and totally destroyed by accidental fire in
course of transportation by a common carrier, is entitled, after he has
paid the loss, to recover what he has paid, by suit in the name of the
assured against the carrier. It is not necessary, in order to sustain such
a suit, to show any positive wrongful act by the carrier.

ERROR to

the Circuit Court for the Middle District of

Tennessee.
Hall & Long allowed this suit in their names, for the use
of certaininsurance companies, against the .Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company, to recover the value of cotton
shipped by them on the road of the defendant as a common
carrier, which was accidentally consumed by fire, while
being transported, and "became and was a total loss." The
cotton had been insured by Hall &Long against loss by fire,
in the companies for whose use the suit was brought, and
these companies had paid the amount insured by them, respectively. On demurrer the question was whether the underwriter who insures personal property against loss by fire,
and pays the insurance upon a total loss by accidental burning, while in transition, can bring an action in the name of
the owner, for his use against the common carrier, based
upon the common-law liability of such common carrier.
The court below adjudged that he could not, and the plaintiffs brought the case here on error.
Mr. Henry Cooper, in support of the judgment below:
The case is not one where the defendant has been guilty
of any positive, wrongful act, resulting in loss to the owner.
The defendant's liability, if it exist at all, grows out of the
rigid rules of the common law, that a common carrier is
liable for accidents, and against all acts but the acts of God
and the public enemy.
In marine insurance, by a supposed analogy to suits in
which this action has probably been brought, whenever a

368

HALL & LONa V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in favor of the Insurance Company.

demand is made for payment under a policy, as for a total
loss, the insurance company is subrogated to all the rights
of the assured to the property insured. This is brought
about by what is technically called an abandonment, which
must, in all cases, be made by the assured.* The insurer
thus becomes subrogated to all the title of the assured, in
the goods, or in what may be saved of them, and the abandonment goes so far as to include the spes recuperandiwhere
there is anything to be recovered.
But the doctrine of subrogation, in marine insurance, can
have no application to the case now before the court, because: (1st) there is no such thing as abandonment in fire
insurance on land, and (2d) there was here a total loss, and
nothing, consequently, upon which a cession could operate.
It has generally been supposed that the insurer was entitled to subrogation to the rights of the assured where the
insurance was of a mortgage debt; and, until recently, the
doctrine was so laid down. But this was based upon a dictum of Judge Story's, in Carpenter v. Providence Waslinglon
Ins. Co.,t and has now been overruled by courts. In King
v. State iMlutual -Fire Insurance Cornpany,t Shaw, C. J., speaking for the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, says:
"We are inclined to the opinion that when a mortgagee
causes insurance to be made for his own benefit, paying the
premium from his own fund, in case a loss occurs before his debt
is paid, he has a right to receive a total loss for his own benefit;
that he is not bound to account, to the mortgagor, for any part
of the money he recovered as a part of the mortgage debt; it is
not a payment in whole or in part, but he has still a right to
recover his debt of the mortgagor. And so, on the other hand,
when the debt is thus paid by the debtor, the money is not, in
law or equity, the money of the insurer who has thus paid the
loss, or money paid to his use. . . .What is there inequitable

on the part of the mortgagee, towards either party, in holding
both sums? They are both due upon valid contracts with him,
made upon adequate consideration paid by himself. There is
nothing inequitable to the debtor, for he pays no more than he
Tunno v Edwards, 12 East, 488.

t 16 Peters, 601.

1 7 Cushing, 1.

Dec. 1871.]

HALL

& LONG

V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

869

Argument in favor of the Insurance Company.

originally received in money lent; nor to the underwriter, for
he has only paid upon a risk voluntarily taken, for which he
was paid by the mortgagee a full and satisfactory equivalent."
The sane conclusion has been reached, on a mortgagee's
attempt to chafge the mortgagor with the premiums of insurance, by Vice-Chancellor Wigram, in England, in Dobson
v. Land,* and it has been had also in American cases.t
In equity, the insurance company could have no claim to
subrogation until it had fully, reimbursed the merchant, not
merely the actual loss, but the premiums previously paid.
The truth is, there is more intrinsic equity in the railroad
company's claim to the benefit of subrogation against the
insurance company, which has been fully paid for the risk
it has assumed, than in the claim of the latter to be subrogated to the rights of action of the assured against the railroad company, if indeed he have any.
The English case of Mason v. Sainsbury and another,t and
one or two American authorities, based upon that decision,
which might be cited for a view opposed to ours, if they can
be sustained at all upon principle, rest upon the doctrine of
punishing the wrong-doer. But here the defendant has been
guilty of no wrongful act by which loss has accrued. The
loss is purely accidental, and that loss has been paid by the
real plaintiffs upon a contract based upon a sufficient consideration. To allow them to recover, in the name of the
owner, would be to give them the benefit of the premium without any risk. It would be, in effect, to legalize
champerty. For what they claim is the right to have a
right of action assigned them. It may be that where there
is an equity growing out of the facts of the case the claim
might be sustained; as, for example, if the cotton had been
maliciously burned by the company, or lost by wilful neglect.
But there can be no equity growing out of inevitable acci* 8 Hare, 216.

t White v. Brown, 2 Cushing, 412; Carter v. Rockett, 8 Paige, 437; and
see Insurance Company v. Updegraff, 21 Pennsylvania State, 519.
$ 3 Douglas, 61.
24
VOL. XIII.

370

HALL & LONG V.

RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

dent, and that accident expressly insured against for a valuable consideration. The railroad company and the insurance
company, for whose use this suit is brought, were, so to
speak, both insurers of the property lost against the risk
which occurred. They both became liable by independent
contracts upon independent considerations. Both are liable
to the shipper, and he may recover at his election from
either. But there is no equity in the premises, and each
must abide by his contract with the shipper, and stand
where he chooses to leave him.

31r. W. Atwood, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is too well settled by the authorities to admit of question that, as between a common carrier of goods and an
underwriter upon them, the liability to the owner for their
loss or destruction is primarily upon the carrier, while the
liability of the insurer is only secondary. The contract of
the carrier may not be first in order of time, but it is first
and principal in ultimate liability. In respect to the ownership of the goods, and the risk incident thereto, the owner
and the insurer are considered but one person, having together the beneficial right to the indemnity due from the
carrier for a breach of his contract or for non-performance
of his legal duty. Standing thus, as the insurer does, practically, in the position of a surety, stipulating that the goods
shall not be lost or injured in consequence of the peril insured against, whenever he has indemnified the owner for
the loss, he is entitled to all the means of indemnity which
the satisfied owner held against the party primarily liable.
His right rests upon familiar principles of equity. It is the
doctrine of subrogation, dependent not at all upon privity
of contract, but worked out through the right of the creditor
or owner. Hence it has often been ruled that an insurer,
who has paid a loss, may use the name of the assured in an
action to obtain redress from the carrier whose failure of
duty caused the loss. It is conceded that this doctrine pre-

Dec. 1871.]

HALL

&

LONG V. RAIL-ROAD COMPANIES.

871

Opinion of the court.

vails in cases of marine insurance, but it is denied that it is
applicable to cases of fire insurance upon land, and the reason for the supposed difference is said to be that the insurer
in a marine policy becomes the owner of the lost or injured
property by abandonment of the assured, while in land policies there can be no abandonment. But it is a mistake to
assert that the right of insurers in marine policies to proceed
against a carrier of the goods, after they have paid a total
loss, grows wholly, or even principally, out of any abandonment. There can be no abandonment where there has been
total destruction. There is nothing upon which it can operate, and an insured party may recover for a total loss withoutit. It is laid down in Phillips on Insurance, see. 1723, that
"a mere payment of a loss, whether partial or total, gives the
insurers an equitable title to what may afterwards be recovered from other parties on account of the loss," and that
"the effect of a payment of a loss is equivalent in this respect
to that of abandonment." There is, then, no reason for the
subrogation of insurers by marine policies to the rights of
the assured against a carrier by sea which does not exist in
support of a like subrogation in case of an insurance against
fire on land. :Nor do the authorities make any distinction
between the cases, though a carrier may, by stipulation with
the owner of the goods, obtain the benefit of insurance.
In Gales v. llainan,*it was ruled that a shipper, who had
received from his insurer the part of the loss insured against,
might sue the carrier on the contract of bailment, in his own
right, not only for the unpaid balance due to himself, but as
trustee for what had been paid by the insurer in aid of the
carrier, and that the court would restrain the carrier from
setting up .the insurer's payment of his part of the loss as
partial satikfaction. So in _Hart et al. v. The Western Railroad Company,t it was held that where underwriters had
paid a loss by fire caused by a l6comotive of a railroad corporation, the owner might recover also from the corporation
for the use of the underwriters, and that he could not release
* 11 Pennsylvania State, 515.

t 13 Mfetcalf, 99.

372

HALL & LONG v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the action brought by them in his name. There is also a
large class of cases in which attempts have been made by
insurers who had paid a loss to recover from the party in
fault for it, by suit in their own right, and not in the right
of the assured. Such attempts have failed, but in all the
cases it has been conceded that suits might have been maintained in the name of the insured party for the use of the
insurers.* And such is the English doctrine settled at an
early period.t
It has been argued, however, that these decisions rest
upon the doctrine that a wrong-doer is to be punished; that
the defendants against whom such actions have been maintained were wrong-doers; but that, in the present case, the
fire by which the insured goods were destroyed was accidental, without fault of the defendants, and therefore that
they stood, in relation to the owner, at most in the position
of double insurers. The argument will not bear examination. A carrier is not an insurer, though often loosely so
called. The extent of his responsibility may be equal to that
of an insurer, and even greater, but its nature is not the
same. His contract is not one for indemnity, independent
of the care and custody of the goods. Ile is not entitled to
a cession of the remains of the property, or to have the loss
adjusted on principles peculiar to the contract of insurance;
and when a loss occurs, unless caused by the act of God, or
of a public enemy, he is always in fault. The law raises
against him a conclusive presumption of misconduct, or
breach of duty, in relation to every loss not caused by excepted perils. Even if innocent, in fact, he has consented
by his contract to be dealt with as if he were not so. He
does not stand, therefore, on the same footing with that of
an insurer, who may have entered into his contract of inRockingham Mutual Fire Insurance Company v. Bosher, 39 Aaine, 253;

Peoria Ins. Co. v. Frost, 37 Illinois, 333; Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. New York and New Haven Railroad Co., 25 Connecticut, 265.

t Mlason v. Sainsbury, 3 Douglas, 60; Yates v. Whyte, 4 Bingham, New
Cases, 272; Clark v. Blything, 2 Barnewall & Cresswell, 254; Randal v.
Cockran, 1 Vesey, Sr., 98.

Dec. 1871.]

SALT COMPANY V. EAST SAGINAW.

873

Statement of the case.

demnity, relying upon the carrier's vigilance and responsibility. In all cases, when liable at all, it is because he is
proved, or presumed to be, the author of the loss. There is
nothing, then, to take the case in hand out of the general
rule that an underwriter, who has paid a loss, is entitled to
recover what he has paid by a suit in the name of the assured
against a carrier who caused the loss.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause

REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

SALT COMPANY V. EAST SAGINAW.
1. A law offering to all persons and to corporations to be formed for the
purpose, a bounty of 10 cents for every bushel of salt manufactured in
a State from water obtained by boring in the State, and exemption from
taxation of the property used for the purpose, is not a contract in such
a sense that it cannot be repealed.
2. Such a law is nothing but a bounty law, and in its nature a general law,
regulative of the internal economy of the State, dependent for its continuance upon the dictates of public policy, and the voluntary good faith
of the legislature.
3. General encouragements held out to all persons indiscriminately to engage
in a particular trade or manufacture, whether in the shape of bounties,
drawbacks, or other advantage, are always under the legislative control, and may at any time be discontinued.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Michigan; the case being
thus:
The East Saginaw Salt Manufacturing Company filed a bill
in the court below against the city of East Saginaw, in Michigan, to restrain the city from levying and enforcing any tax
on certain real estate owned in the said city by it, and for a
decree establishing the exemption claimed. The company
founded its exemption on an act passed by the legislature of
Michigan, on the 15th of February, 1859, for encouraging
the manufacture of salt. The act was as follows:
"SECTION 1. The people of the State of Michigan enact, that

