COMMONWEALTH v. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ors. How can their title be disturbed by the complainants?
What equity would there be in subjecting the property in
their hands to an incumbrance from which it was free when
their purchase was made?
The decree must be
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I differ from Brother Bradley in the construction of the
bill in this case, and, therefore, differ from him in the conclusions to be drawn from the facts which it discloses. To
my mind it presents a clear case, where money, amounting
to over four hundred and sixty thousand dollars, was paid
under a mistake of fact, into which the complainant was led
by the decision of this court. And it would be, in my j udgment, only administering simple justice to the company to
compel the defendants to make restitution, or to give to the
company the benefit of the decree in the foreclosure suit,
upon which the money was paid. I, therefore, dissent from
the judgment rendered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and Mr. Justice MILLER also
dissented.

COMMONWEALTH

v.

BOUTWELL.

Mandamus to the Secretary of the Treasury to compel him to deliver a
warrant under the act of July 27th, 1861, directing him to refund to
the governor of any State the expenses properly incurred in raising
troops to aid in suppressing the rebellion, refused; the Secretary not
having been asked to pay the money until the time limited in the
appropriation act for the appropriation to take effect had expired; the
right of the court to issue such order under other circumstances not
being meant to be passed upon.

THIs was a petition by the State of Kentucky, through
its constituted authority, asking this court, in the exercise
of its original jurisdiction, for a writ of mandamus to com-

Dec. 1871.]

COMMONWEALTH V. BOUTWELL.

527

Statement of the case.

pel the Honorable G. S. Boutwell, Secretary of the Treasury
of the United States, to deliver to the said State a warrant
to which it alleged itself entitled for expenses incurred in
defence of the Union. The application was founded on the
provisions of an act of Congress of July 27th, 1861,* directing the Secretary of the Treasury to refund to the governor
of any State the expenses properly incurred in raising troops
to aid in the suppression of the late rebellion; an act which,
having been in force and acted on for several years, was repealed from the 1st July, 1871, by act of the 12th July,
1870.t
The petition, after setting forth the nature of the claim of
Kentucky under this law, its approval by the Secretary of
War and the accounting officers of the Treasury Department,
alleged that the acting Secretary of the Treasury, on the
80th of June, 1871, caused to be issued and signed a warrant
upon the Treasurer of the United States for the sum due the
State, which, after being countersigned by the First Comptroller, was withheld from the relator by direction of the
defendant.
The purpose of the petition was to obtain possession of
this warrant, or, if this could not be done, to procure the
delivery to the agent of the State of another warrant of like
amount.
The court having ordered an alternative writ of mandamus, the defendant, in his return to it, among other
things, denied that the acting Secretary of the Treasury, on
the 30th day of June' 1871, or on any other day, caused to
be issued the warrant as alleged in the petition, but asserted
that as he was informed and believed, the facts in regard to
the said pretended warrant were these, to wit:
That on said 30th June, one Fayette Hewitt, the agent of
the State of Kentucky, about the close of business hours,
applied to the chief of the warrant division in the office of
respondent to prepare a warrant for the said sum claimed,
and that the said chief declined to prepare such warrant at
*12 Star. at :Large, 276.

t 16 Id. 250.

COMMONWEALTH V. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

that time, unless specially directed to do so by the acting
secretary; that the agent applied to the acting secretary,
who determined not to issue such warrant, on the ground
that, by the act of July 27th, 1861, the matter was lodged
specially in the discretion and judgment of the secretary
himself, who was absent, and that the propriety of issuing
the said warrant would be determined by him on his return;
but that in view of the urgent request of the agent, and
representations by him that, after said 30th of June, an appropriation made in the matter would be no longer available
for the payment of the said claim, the acting secretary determined to confer with the officers of the department, and,
if it was by them deemed advisable and proper, to prepare
and sign a warrant on the said day in order to save the appropriation, which warrant should not be issued, n6r registered, nor recorded, but should be retained in the office of
the acting secretary subject to approval or rejection by the
secretary on his return ; that the acting secretary did accordingly call together the said officers at his office at about
eight o'clock on the evening of said day, and that it was
then and there agreed that a warrant should be prepared
and signed, and should not be registered nor delivered, but
should be retained and submitted to the secretary on his
return, to be by him either approved and issued or cancelled,
as he should determine; and that the said warrant was accordingly prepared and signed, and countersigned at the
office of the acting secretary, and was so retained; that, on
the secretary's return to Washington, about the middle of
July, 1871, the warrant prepared was presented to him for
approval by the acting secretary, in accordance with the understanding between him and the said agent, Hewitt, and
that upon mature consideration the claim was rejected and
the warrant cancelled by him.
And as a conclusion from these facts the defendant in the
case denied that it was the legal right of the said Commonwealth of Kentucky to have the said warrant, and to receive
the sum of money as alleged, and asserted that he, the said
defendant, could not now deliver the warrant, conditionally

Dec.

1871.]

COMMONWEALTH V. BOUTWELL.
Opinion of the court.

signed as aforesaid, as prayed for by the State of Kentucky,
because the same was officially cancelled by him on rejection
of the claim, and that he could not now prepare and deliver
another warrant upon the Treasurer of the United States,
because there was not now any appropriation out of which
it could be paid.
To this answer the State of Kentucky demurred.
The case was argued at diqerent times by Messrs. J. Casey,
A. A. Burton, and G. B. Me.ee, for the State of Kentucky;
and by Mr. Akerman and Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorneys-General, Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. E7. Hill, Assistant Solicitor-General,for thle Seeretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The answer of the respondent must, in the state of the
pleadings, be taken as true, so far as its statement of facts
is concerned, and, therefore, presents a complete defence
against the demand of the writ.
It seems very clear, if no warrant were ever issued, and
the condition of the law on the subject at the present time
does not authorize the secretary to issue one, that the prayer
of the petition cannot be granted. If it be conceded, as is
argued by the counsel for the petitioner, that the decision
of the accounting officers was conclusive upon the secretaiy,
and that he should have paid the money, if applied to in
proper season, still the fact exists that he was not asked to
pay the money until the time limited in the law for the appropriation to take effect had expired. It will not do to say
that the proceedings by the acting secretary vested a right
in the State, which could not be defeated by the refusal of
the secretary to approve the prepared warrant, because the
validity of this proceeding depended entirely on the future
action of the secretary. By the very terms of the agreement
the warrant was to be retained in the office, subject to the
approval or rejection by the secretary on his return to Washington. If the acting secretary had the power, in the absence of his principal, to sign and deliver the warrant-a
VOL. XIII.

34

COMMONWEALTH V. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

point on which we express no opinion-he did not choose to
exercise it, but preferred in a matter of such consequence to
leave the ultimate decision of the question to the secretary
himself. Nothing fairer than the arrangement which was
made could have been expected of a subordinate officer,
anxious to preserve the rights of all the parties concerned,
but unwilling to take the responsibility of paying so large a
claim during the temporary absence of the head of the department, and nothing better for the interest of the State
could have been looked for under the circumstances. As
the appropriation was not available after the 30th of June,
the papers were arranged to save it, if the secretary should
on his return approve the warrant, and order it to be issued.
On the contrary, if the transaction did not meet with his
approbation the warrant was to be cancelled and held for
nought. In this state of case, it is quite clear, that the warrant could have no effect without the secretary's approval,
and as lie decided adversely so soon as his attention was
called to the subject, it follows, as a necessary consequence,
that this warrant, if it had any life before, ceased to have it
after this decision was made, and that the allegation in the
petition, that the warrant was wrongfully withheld from the
relator, is not sustained.
It is insisted, however, that the court should now order
the Secretary of the Treasury to deliver to the relator another warrant in place of the one thus cancelled.
This proposition would present an important question, if
there were money in the Treasury appropriated to pay this
claim, but as Congress has seen fit to withdraw the appropriation for refunding to States expenses incurred in raising
volunteers during the late rebellion, it is difficult to see on
what ground it can be based. If it be conceded that the
State had a right, on the 30th of June, 1871, to demand of
the Secretary of the Treasury, in person, payment of the
amount due her under the terms of the act of July 27th,
1861, and that the claim was in such a condition of settlement that he had no power to revise it, still it is manifest
that he was justified in refusing compliance with a demand

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

made after that day. I Congress, on the 12th of July, 1870,
repealed the law on which this claim is founded. It cannot
be supposed that this legislation was directed against the
ultimate payment of the promised indemnity, for the repealing act did not go into operation until the 1st of uly, 1871.
For nearly a year, therefore, the appropriation was continued, and the constituted authorities of the States, were
told to hasten their action if they wished to avail themselves
of the benefits of the law. It was easy for them to see thatif by delay, or from any other cause, they suffered the appropriation to expire without getting a settlement of their
claims, that additional legislation would be necessary to furnish them relief, for the effect of the repealing law after the
limitation expired, was not only to take the subject out of
the control of the secretary, but to place it within the control of Congress.
These views dispose of this case. It is proper to observe,
in conclusion, that many important questions are presented
in the pleadings, and were argued at the bar, on which we
have purposely refrained from expressing an opinion, and
which are open for consideration in any future case that may
arise, where they are applicable.
DEMURRER OVERRULED and a peremptory writ of mandamus
DENIED.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

1. The second section of the act of M?[arch 3d, 1823, amendatory of the act
regulating the entry of merchandise imported into the United States
from any adjacent Territory (3 Stat. at Large, 781), enacts: "That if
any person or persons shall receive, conceal, or buy any goods, wares, or merchandise, knowing them to have been illegally imported into the United States,
and liable to seizure by virtue of any act in relation to the revenue, such person
or persons shall, on conviction thereof, forfeit and pay a sum double the amount
or value of the goods, wares, or merchandise so received, concealed, or pur-

chased." Held, 1st, that a civil action of debt will lie, at the suit of the
United States, to recover the forfeitures or penalties incurred under this
section ; 2d, that the section is remedial, and not strictly penal in its
character; and 3d, that the section applies to illegal importers as well as
to accessories after the illegal importation.

