Dec. 1871.]

CARROLL V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

CARROLL V. UNITED STATES.
In a claim by an administrator of a deceased person, against the United
States, under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act of March 12th,
1863, which makes proof that the owner never gave aid or comfort to
the rebellion, a condition precedent to recovery, it is no bar that the
decedent gave such aid or comfort, the property having been taken after
the decedent's death and from the administrator, and not from him.
The owner, within the sense of the statute, was the administratrix.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
The act of March 12th, 1863, "to provide for the collection
of abandoned property in insurrectionary districts within the
United States," enacts that:
APPEAL

"Any person claiming to have been the owner of any such
abandoned or captured property may, at any time within two
years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claims to
the proceeds thereof in the Court of Claims; and on proof to the
satisfaction of said court of his ownership of said property, of
his right to the proceeds thereof, and that he has never given any
aid or comfort to the present rebellion, receive the residue of such
proceeds, after the deduction of any purchase-money which may
have been paid, together with the expense of transportation and
sale of said property, and any other lawful expenses attending

the disposition thereof."
Under this act, Mrs. Lucy Carroll, administratrix of her
husband, George Carroll, presented a claim for the proceeds
in the treasury of certain cotton. The husband, as appeared
from the findings of the court, resided in Arkansas during
the first years of the late civil war, and had raised and was
owner of certain cotton. He died in September, 1863. During his life he had given aid to the rebellion.
The cotton, upon his death, came into the possession of
the claimant as administratrix, and was in her possession at N
the time it was captured by the army of the United States.
She offered evidence to establish her own loyalty, and that
she never gave aid or comfort to the rebellion, which seems to
have been rejected by the court. The estate was insolvent;

CARROLL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the creditors numerous, and there was no proof in respect
to their loyalty.
The Court of Claims decided as a conclusion of law from
these facts that the claimant's right as administratrix depended upon proof of the loyalty of the decedent, and, it
being shown that he voluntarily gave aid and comfort to the
rebellion, dismissed the petition.
Mr. B. _R. Bristow, Solicitor-General, in support of the ruling
below :
1. It is only in her representative capacity that Mrs. Carroll
is entitled to demand the proceeds of the cotton, and her petition is framed exclusively upon this idea. Whether the
cotton was seized before or after the husband's death, or
whether his "claim " to the proceeds existed only after his
death, the fict nevertheless remains that the only claim now
presented is by his legal representative, and the relief sought
is in virtue of his right. It is therefore clear that his loyalty
alone is the proper subject of inquiry.
2. But if it be true, that the loyalty of the husband need
not be proved, the requirement of the statute still exists, and
can only be met by proof of the loyalty of some party beneficially interested in the property. And hence the loyalty of
the heirs at law, or of the creditors, in case of an insolvent
estate (as is the case here), must be proved.
If proof of the loyalty of a mere trustee or administrator
be held to be a sufficient compliance with the requirement of
the statute, then in all cases of the death of disloyal owners
of captured and abandoned property, the interposition of a
loyal representative is all that would be necessary to secure
to disloyal parties the benefits of an act passed in the interest
of persons who had adhered to the Union during the rebellion. Such could not have been the intention of Congress.
J1r. R.

.Corwine, contra,.for the claimant.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the Court of Claims erred in the decision
given by it. The statute of March 12th, 1863, makes the

Dec. 1871.]

CARROLL V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

right to recover depend on proof of ownership of the abandoned or captured property, of right to the proceeds, and of
the fact that the owner gave no aid or comfort to the rebellion. It is plain to us that the ownership to be proved was
that which existed at the time of capture or abandonment,
and that the right to the proceeds was that which existed at
the time of the petition filed in the Court of Claims. These
titles, in their nature, capable of separation, coexisted in the
petitioner. True, her ownership was not absolute, nor was
her right to the proceeds absolute. She could claim only in
a representative capacity-first, in right of the intestate, and,
secondly, as trustee for creditors and distributees. At the
time of the death of the intestate the cotton was in his possession, unaffected by any proceeding in confiscation. After
his death, and upon appointment of his widow as administratrix, the title vested in her unforfeited. It was a title
upon which she could maintain trespass or trover.* And
it was the only title to the property subsisting at the time
of the capture and sale and payment of the proceeds into
the-treasury. The statute does not make it the duty of the
court to inquire whether the intestate who had been the
owner gave aid and comfort to the rebellion, but whether
such aid or comfort was given by the actual owner at the
time of capture. This owner, within the sense of the statute,
was the administratrix. It would be much more reasonable
to institute such inquiries in respect to the creditors and
distributees than in respect to the intestate. But such an
investigation might be endless, and could not, we think,
have been contemplated by the legislature.
We think, therefore, that the Court of Claims erred in
not admitting the proof offered by the petitioner, and for
this cause the decree must be
REVERSED.

Redfield on Wills, 114, 116; 1 Williams on Executors and Administrators, 596; McVaughters v. Elder, 2 Brevard, 313; Lawrence v. Wright, 23
Pickering, 129.

