Dec. 1871.]

Tim SIREN.
Statement of the case.

does his estate, and it needed legislative action to ripen this
equitable right into a legal title. Congress has acted upon
this subject and confirmed the lands of the pueblo of San
Francisco, including the demanded premises, and this confirmation could not enure to the benefit of any one claiming
under a grant by an American prefect, unless there were an
express declaration to that effect. As there is no pretence
that the grant in this case was protected by legislation, it
follows that the plaintiff has no title of any sort to rest upon.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE SIREN.
1. The right of vessels of the navy of the United States to prize-money
4comes only in virtue of grant or permission from the United States, and
lif no act of Congress sanctions a claim to it, it does not exist.
2. No such act gives prize to the navy in cases of joint capture by the army
and navy.
3. In cases of such capture, the capture enures exclusively to the benefit of
the United States.
APPEAL from the District Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
Prior, and up to the morning of the 17th of February,
1865, a naval force of the United States, composed, of the
Gladiolus, and twenty-six other vessels of war, were blockading the port of Charleston and assisting to reduce the
city; a force operating also by land in the same general designs.
During the night of the 16th and 17th, the rebel forces evacuated the forts about the harbor, and abandoned the city.
At 9 o'clock on the morning of the 17th, an officer of the
land force raised the national flag upon Forts Sumter, Ripley, and Pinckney. At 10 a military officer reached Charleston; and the city surrendered itself, and the rebel stores,
arms, and property there to him. Contemporaneously with
these transactions the army approached the city, and the
fleet moved towards its wharves. As the latter came near

THE SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to land, a boy on shore gave information that the Siren, a
blockade-runner, a vessel of force inferior to the Gladiolus,
had run in during the night, and was lying in Ashley River;
which makes a west entrance inland from the bay where the
blockading fleet was stationed. The Gladiolus, one of the
leading vessels of the fleet, dispatched a boat's crew towards
the vessel. When they got there they found that her crew
learning of the success of the Federal arms, and seeing the
Gladiolus coming, had cut the injection-pipes of the vessel,
set her on fire, and abandoned her. She was now in flames,
filling with water, and surrounded by boats filled with negroes from the shore. The Gladiolus, herself, arrived at
the scene soon after her boat's crew got there; and, with the
people about, managed to put out the fire and tow the vessel
to shallow water, where after great effort her leaks were
stopped. She was then taken to Boston, and condemned as
a prize of war, and sold; all questions as to the distribution
of the proceeds being reserved. From the proceeds in the
registry (less a certain sum, which on libel filed had been
decreed to the owners of a vessel that the prize-crew of the
Siren in bringing her into Boston for condemnation, had
carelessly ran into and injured), the Gladiolus claimed both
salvage and prize-money; claiming as the latter one-half of
the proceeds. The other vessels named as part of the blockading force, set up a right to participate in the proceeds as
captors with the Gladiolus.
The statute under which the claim of all the vessels was
made* is in these words:
"The net proceeds of all property condemned as prize when
the prize was of superior or equal force to the vessel or vessels
making the capture, shall be decreed to the captors; and when
of inferior force to the vessel or vessels making the capture,
one-half shall be decreed to the United States and the other
half to the captors."
There was no statute which provided for joint captures by
the army and navy.
* Act of June 30th, 1864; 13 Stat. at Large, 30.

Dec. 1871.]

THE SIREN.
Opinion of the court.

The court below decreed in favor of the claim of the
Gladiolus for salvage, and gave the residue of the proceeds,
after paying the sum decreed as damages for the collision,
to the United States alone. From this decree, depriving
them of all prize-money, the present appeal was taken by
certain of the blockading vessels.
31essrs. Charles Cowley, and Charles Levi Woodbury, for the
appellants; 31r. C. H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the English maritime jurisprudence the jurisdiction of
the admiralty court on the instance side, and the jurisdiction in prize, are entirely distinct and independent of each
other. When exercising one, it is called the instance court,
and the prize court when exercising the other. The rules
of procedure and adjudication in the latter are said to be no
more like those which prevail in the former, than they are
like those of any court in Westminster Hall. But from
time immemorial both jurisdictions have been exercised by
the same judge. As judge of the admiralty or instance
court he is appointed by a commission under the great seal.
This commission specifies fully and particularly the subjects
of his jurisdiction, but is wholly silent as to prize. To give
that jurisdiction, and bring it into activity, a commission
under the great seal, in every war, was issued to the lord
high admiral, to require the judge of admiralty to take cognizance of all captures, seizures, prizes, and reprisals of all
ships and goods that should be taken, and to hear and determine according to the course of the admiralty and the
la* of nations. A special warrant was thereupon issued by
the admiral. Since the reign of Elizabeth it does not appear that any special authority has been given to the judge.
He has exercised exclusive jurisdiction in prize under his
commission from the king, or under the power inherent in
his office, or by virtue of both.*
* Lindo v. Rodney, 2 Douglas, 613, note.

892

THE SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Prize was wholly the creature of the crown. No one
could have any interest but what he took as the gift of the
king. Beyond this he could claim nothing. The reasons
upon which the rule was founded were: that right of making war and peace was exclusively in the sovereign; that the
acquisitions of war must, therefore, belong to him, and that
their disposal might be of the utmost importance for the
purposes both of war and peace. It was held that it must
be presumed from these considerations that the government
did not intend to divest itself of this important attribute,
except in so far as such a purpose was clearly and unequivocally expressed. The right is not the private property of
the sovereign, but a trust confided to him for the public
good. In private grants the construction is most strongly
against the grantor. In all concessions touching capture
the opposite rule prevails. A presumption arises against
the grant, and it can only be rebutted by language so explicit as to leave no room for doubt upon the subject.*
The lord high admiral exists now only in contemplation
of law. It was deemed expedient to assign to him a certain
portion of the rights of the crown to maintain the dignity
and splendor of his office.t Hence the doctrines of droits
of the admiralty, and of captured property which belonged
to the king, virhide corone. The lord high admiral is now
represented by the king, who holds the office, but in a capacity distinct from his regal character, and the droits which
belonged to the office, so far as they still subsist and are not
otherwise disposed of, have in the progress of time become
reattached to the crown.1
To the legal scholar the subject is full of the interest of
antiquarian research, but its examination is not necessary to
the decision of the present case. The proper limits of this
opinion forbid us to pursue the inquiry further.
While the American colonies were a part of the British
empire, the English maritime law, including the law of prize,
*

The Elsebe, 5 Robinson, 155.

t The Maria Francoise, 6 Id. 293.

] The Rebeckah, I Id. 227; The Mercurius, lb. 81; The Joseph, 1 Gallison, 545; 3 Reeves's History of the English Law, 197.

Dec. 1871.]

THE SIREN.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

was the maritime law of this country. From the close of
the Revolution down to this time it has continued to be our
law, so far as it is adapted to the altered circumstances and
condition of the country, and has not been modified by the
proper national authorities.* In our jurisprudence there
are, strictly speaking, no droits of admiralty. The United
States have succeeded to the rights of the crown. No one
can have any right or interest in any prize except by their
grant or permission. All captures made without their express authority enure ipso facto to their benefit. Whenever
a'claim is set up its sanction by an act of Congress must be
shown. If no such act can be produced the alleged right
does not exist. The United States take captured property,
not as droits, but strictly and solely jure reipublicx.t
During the late civil war a land and naval force of the
United States were beleaguring Charleston in South Carolina.
The rebel fortifications and forces kept both at bay. This
had been the condition of things for a considerable period.
In the night of the 17th February, 1865, the insurgent troops
evacuated the neighboring forts and abandoned the city.
This became known the next morning. The fleet thereupon
approached the city by water and the army by land. The
Gladiolus, a steam propeller of the navy, was one of the
leading vessels. When she was off the Battery at Charleston, a boy from the shore gave information that a blockaderunner was lying near by in Ashley River. A boat's crew
from the Gladiolus was dispatched in quest of her. They
found her on fire and surrounded by boats filled with colored
people from the shore. The crew of the boat and others
present proceeded to put out the fire. The Gladiolus reached
the scene a few minutes after the arrival of the boat. The
fire was extinguished; the crew of the Gladiolus assisted in
putting it out. It was found that the pipes of the vessel had
been cut and that she was filling with water. The Gladiolus
towed her to shallow water and her leaks were stopped.
* Thirty hogsheads of Sugar v. Boyle and others, 9 Oranch, 198.

t The Joseph, 1 Gallison, 555, 558; Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheaton, 310.

Tim SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

She was the Siren, a side-wheeled steamer of about one
hundred and fifteen tons burden, and had run the blockade
the night before. That morning her crew had cut her pipes,
set her on fire, and abandoned her. She was sent to Boston
for trial as prize of war. On her way she collided with another vessel. She was libelled by the United States in the
District Court of Massachusetts. On the 7th of April, 1865,
she was condemned as lawful prize and subsequently sold.
All questions as to the distribution of the proceeds were left
open by the decree for future adjudication. The owners of
the vessel collided with, intervened and claimed damages.
They were allowed by this court on appeal.* Salvage was
claimed in behalf of the Gladiolus. One-half of the proceeds of the sale was also claimed for that vessel as prize
money. The other appellant vessels of war claimed to participate with her. A decree of distribution was made on
the 3d of July, 1869. The court allowed the claim for salvage, and ordered that the residue of the fund, less the sums
decreed for damages arising from the collision, should be
paid over to the United States. The appellants have brought
this decree before us for review.
Four acts of Congress have been passed allowing captors
to participate in the fruits of the property captured. They
are the act of 1799,t that of 1800;j that of 1862,ยง and that
of 1864.11 It is necessary in this case to consider only one
clause of the 10th section of the act last mentioned, which
is as follows: "The net proceeds of all property condemned
as prize, when the prize was of superior or equal force to
the vessel or vessels making the capture, shall be decreed to
the captors. And when of inferior force, one-half shall be
decreed to the United States and the other half to the
captors."
No provision is found in any of these statutes touching
joint captures by the army and navy. They are wholly
The Siren, 7 Wallace, 152.
12 Id. 606.

t I Stat. at Large, 715.
1113 Id. 306.

: 2 Id. 52.

D~c. 1871.]

THE. SIRE.
Opinion of the court.

silent as to the military arm of the service. It results from
this state of things, according to the principles we have laid
down, that such captures enure exclusively to the benefit of
the United States. In the English law they are held not to
be within the prize acts, and are provided for by statutes
passed specially for that purpose. In the Genoa and its dependencies,* Lord Stowell, speaking of the word "prize,"
says: "It evidently means maritime capture effected by
maritime force only,-ships and cargoes taken by ships."..
"What was taken by a conjunct expedition was formerly
erroneously considered as vested in 'a certain proportion of
it, in the capturing ships under the prize acts; but in a great
and important case lately decided,t it was determined that
the whole was entirely out of the effect of those prize acts,
and in so deciding, determined by direct and included consequence, that the words 'prizes taken by any of her Majesty's ships or vessels of war,' cannot apply to any other
cases than those in which captures are made by ships only."
In Booty in the Peninsula,j the same great authority, referring to "a conjunct expedition," held this language: "It
may be difficult, and perhaps perilous, to define it negatively and exclusively. It is more easy and safe to define it
affirmatively, that that is a conjunct expedition which is
directed by competent authority, combining together the
actions of two different species of fbrce, for the attainment
of some common specific purpose."
The opinion of the court below proceeded upon the ground
that the present case is one of this character. Whether it
was or was not is the question presented for our determination. The application of Lord Stowell's test leaves no room
for doubt as to its proper solution.
We have already adverted to the ingress of the navy into
the harbor of Charleston on the morning of the 17th of
February. At nine o'clock that morning an officer of the
land forces hoisted the national flag over the ruins of Fort
2 Dodson, 446.
: 1 Haggard, 47.

t Hoagskarpel, Lords of Appeal, 1786.

THE SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Sumter. Flags were also raised over Forts Ripley and Pinckney. At ten o'clock a military officer reached Charleston.
The mayor surrendered the city to him. Four hundred and
fifty pieces of artillery, military stores, and much other property were captured with it. Contemporaneously with these
things was the seizure of the Siren by the Gladiolus, and
the approach and arrival of the rest of the fleet.
The two forces were acting under the orders of a common
government, fbr a common object, and for none other. They
were united in their labors and their perils, and in their
triumph they were n6t divided. They were converging
streams toiling against the same dike. When it gave way
both swept in without any further obstruction. The consummation of their work was the fill of the city. Either
force, after the abandonment of their defences by the rebels,
could have seized all that was taken by both. The meritorious service of the Gladiolus was as a salvor, and not as a
captor. Precedence in the time of the arrival of the respective forces is an element of no consequence. Upon principle,
reason, and authority we think the judgment of the District
Court was correctly given. The decree of condenwation
committed the court to nothing as to the distribution. The
course pursued was eminently proper under the circumstances, and according to the course of practice in proceedings in prize.* The allowance of salvage by the court below
was not objected to in the argument here.
It has been suggested that the capture was within the 7th
section of the act of the 2d of July, 1864,t which declares
that "no property seized or taken upon any of the inland
waters of the United States by the naval forces thereof shall
be regarded as maritime prize," &c. The aspect in which
the case has been examined, and the conclusions reached,
render it unnecessary to consider that proposition, and we
express no opinion upon the subject.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
* The Maria Francoise, 6 Robinson, 292.

t 13 Stat. at Large, 377.

