ALEXANDER V. I 0ULET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nine inches from the keel, and that she then showed only
three inches out of water, and, of course, that she then
drew, forward and aft, unloaded, three feet and six inches.
The purchase was thus made by the defendant, with his
eyes open, after every opportunity had been afforded him
for the inspection of the vessel.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

ALEXANDER V. ROULET.
0

Prefects in California, however appointed or elected, had no power, after
the conquest of the country by the United States, to make grants of the
common or unappropriated lands of the pueblos within their jurisdiction. And titles derived from them cannot, unless assisted by legislation, be regarded as valid.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California.

Alexander brought ejectment against Roulet and others
in the court below to recover a piece of land in San Francisco, California. The title was thus: The conquest of California was complete, as decided by this court,* July 7th,
1846. On the 12th of January, 1850, Horace Hawes, at that
time, by virtue of an appointment from the then military
governor of the then Territory of California, and an election
by the people of the district, acting as the prefect of the district embracing the then pueblo, now city of San Francisco,
granted to Edward Carpenter the premises in controversy.
The title of Carpenter, thus acquired, became vested in the
plaintiff. The premises were within the limits of the said
pueblo, now city of San Francisco.
The court gave judgment for the defendant, holding,
among other things, that although each prefect of California, while the same was part of the Mexican territory,

had power to make grants of the common and unappropriated lands of the pueblos within their jurisdiction, yet that
* Stearns o. United States, 6 Wallace, 590.

Dec. 1871.]

ALEXANDER V. ROULET.
Opinion of the court.

from and after the conquest and acquisition of the country
by the United States they ceased to have such power, and,
consequently, that the grant of Prefect Hawes was void.
On error here, among the questions raised were these:
1. Whether, while California was still part of the Mexican territory, prefects there had power to make grants of
the common or unappropriated lands of pueblos within
their jurisdiction.
2. Assuming that they had the power while the region
was under Mexican rule, whether prefects elected by the people
as well as appointed by military governors of the United
States, after the cession and conquest, had the same power.
Messrs. W. Irvine and 8. Heydenfelt, for the plaintiffin error;
Mr. .HallMcAllister, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been repeatedly decided by this court that a recovery cannot be had in an action of ejeetment in the Federal courts except on a legal title, and the inquiry is, whether
the plaintiff in this case is clothed with such a title.
This title rests on the authority of Horace Hawes, acting
as prefect of the district, embracing the then pueblo of San
Francisco, under the appointment of the military governor
of California and an election by the people of the district, to
grant a part of the common lands of the pueblo.
It is not necessary for the purposes of this suit to decide
whether prefects of California, while the same was a part
of the Mexican territory, were authorized to make grants
of the common or unappropriated lands of the pueblos
within their jurisdiction, because in this case the grant was
after the conquest and acquisition of the country by the
United States, and if the prefect had such authority before
that event it clearly ceased with the changed relations of the
people. By the conquest of the country, Mexican rule was
displaced and with it the authority of Mexican officials to
alienate the public domain, and as a necessary eonsequence
of this conquest, the Constitution of the United States, which

ALEXANDER V.

[Slip. Ct.

] 0ULET.

Opinion of the court.

gives to Congress the disposition of the public lands, was
extended over the territory of California. Until Congress
provided a government for the country it was in charge of
military governors, who, with the aid of subordinate officers,
exercised municipal authority; but the power to grant land
or confirm titles was never vested in these military governors,* nor in any person appointed by them.
It is contended, however, that iawes's election by the
people of the pueblo to the office of prefect on the retirement of the Mexican officials, gave him all the power a
Mexican prefect would have had if the country had not been
conquered. Is this position maintainable? Pueblos or
towns, by the laws of Mexico, were entitled to a certain
quantity of lands adjoining them, which were held in trust
for the benefit of their inhabitants. The nature and extent
of these pueblo rights have been the subject of a great deal
of controversy since the acquisition of California, and came
before this court for consideration in the case of Townsend v.
Greeley.t Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of
the court in that case, says: "It may be difficult to state
with precision the exact nature of the right or title which
the pueblos held in these lands. It was not an indefeasible
estate; ownership of the lands in the pueblos could not in
strictness be affirmed. It amounted in truth to little more
than a restricted or qualified right to alienate portions of
the land to its inhabitants for building or cultivation and to
use the remainder for commons, for pasture-lands, or as a
source of revenue or for other public purposes. This right
of disposition and use was in all particulars subject to the
control of the government of the country." Manifestly, if
this right of disposition and use were subject to Mexican
control while Mexican rule p'evailed, it was equally subject
to the control of our government wheu this rule was
changed. It must be conceded that these pueblos had an
equitable right to have their common lands confirmed to
them, but they did not hold them as a private individual
* Mumnford v. Wrardell, 6 Wallace, 435.

t

5 Wallace, 336.

Dec. 1871.]

Tim SIREN.
Statement of the case.

does his estate, and it needed legislative action to ripen this
equitable right into a legal title. Congress has acted upon
this subject and confirmed the lands of the pueblo of San
Francisco, including the demanded premises, and this confirmation could not enure to the benefit of any one claiming
under a grant by an American prefect, unless there were an
express declaration to that effect. As there is no pretence
that the grant in this case was protected by legislation, it
follows that the plaintiff has no title of any sort to rest upon.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE SIREN.
1. The right of vessels of the navy of the United States to prize-money
4comes only in virtue of grant or permission from the United States, and
lif no act of Congress sanctions a claim to it, it does not exist.
2. No such act gives prize to the navy in cases of joint capture by the army
and navy.
3. In cases of such capture, the capture enures exclusively to the benefit of
the United States.
APPEAL from the District Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
Prior, and up to the morning of the 17th of February,
1865, a naval force of the United States, composed, of the
Gladiolus, and twenty-six other vessels of war, were blockading the port of Charleston and assisting to reduce the
city; a force operating also by land in the same general designs.
During the night of the 16th and 17th, the rebel forces evacuated the forts about the harbor, and abandoned the city.
At 9 o'clock on the morning of the 17th, an officer of the
land force raised the national flag upon Forts Sumter, Ripley, and Pinckney. At 10 a military officer reached Charleston; and the city surrendered itself, and the rebel stores,
arms, and property there to him. Contemporaneously with
these transactions the army approached the city, and the
fleet moved towards its wharves. As the latter came near

