OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

PATTERSON FT AL. v. SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA IN AND FOR THE

COUNTY OF FRESNO

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-765. Decided March 21, 1975
Application to MR. JuSTICE DOUGLAs for stay of further state court
proceedings against applicant newspaper reporters and managing
editor, who were adjudged in contempt for refusing to answer
investigating judge's questions as to how they had obtained access
to a certain sealed grand jury transcript, is granted pending
referral of the application to the full Court, since the applicants
may be irreparably deprived of constitutional rights if the proceedings continue and they have stated their intention to seek
certiorari from the state appellate courts' denial of extraordinary
relief.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants are two California reporters and the managing editor of their newspaper. In January 1975, they
published a series of articles containing references to testimony offered in a Fresno County grand jury proceeding,
despite the fact that the transcript of that proceeding
had been ordered sealed by the local state-court judge
before whom the grand jury's indictment was returned.
The judge instituted an investigation seeking to uncover
any possible violations of his order sealing the grand jury
transcript; in the course of that investigation, numerous
witnesses were called, including applicants. Applicants
state that they were excluded from the courtroom during the testimony of the other witnesses, and that their
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

420 U. S.

counsel was prevented from cross-examining any of these
witnesses. Applicants themselves, when called, refused
to answer questions concerning the manner in which they
had obtained access to the grand jury transcript, citing
various state and federal privileges (not including, except as to one applicant, their privilege against selfincrimination). The judge refused to recognize these
claims of privilege, and found applicants in contempt of
court on many occasions, although the record before me
does not disclose whether these contempt adjudications
have ever been formalized in any sense and does not indicate that any sanction has yet been imposed. Applicants unsuccessfully sought extraordinary relief in the
state appellate courts, and now state their intention to
seek a writ of certiorari to review the denial of such relief, claiming that their confrontation rights and their
due process rights, including the right to a fair and impartial hearing, have been violated and will continue to be
violated in these proceedings.
I am informed that proceedings are scheduled to continue in the Superior Court at 10 a. m. today. Intervention in a pending state proceeding of this sort undoubtedly
is warranted only in extraordinary circumstances. The
facts of this case, however, raise disquieting echoes of the
constitutional infirmities which we identified in In re
Murchison, 349 U. S. 133 (1955), and In re Oliver, 333
U. S. 257 (1948). If these proceedings continue in this
fashion, applicants may well suffer a deprivation of constitutional rights which can never be adequately redressed.
In light of applicants' expressed intention to seek certiorari from the denial of extraordinary relief below, I have
this day entered an order staying further proceedings
with respect to these applicants, pending my referral of
this application to the full Court at the earliest
opportunity.

