UNITED STATES v. FLORIDA
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. FLORIDA
ON EXCEPTIONS TO REPORT OF SPECIAL MASTER
No. 52, Orig. Argued February 25, 1975-Decided March 17, 1975
In this case in which a decree is sought defining the seaward boundary of the submerged lands of the Continental Shelf in the Atlantic
Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico in which Florida has rights to
natural resources, Florida's exceptions to the recommendations
of the Special Master are overruled, but the exceptions of the
United States raise contentions not previously presented to the
Special Master and are therefore referred to him for further
proceedings.

Keith A. Jones argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the briefs were Solicitor General Bork,
Assistant Attorney General Johnson, Bruce C. Rashkow,
and Michael W. Reed.
Robert L. Shevin, Attorney General of Florida, argued
the cause for defendant. With him on the briefs were
W. Robert Olive, Jr., Special Assistant Attorney General,
and Daniel S. Dearing.*
*Brice M. Clagett, Michael Boudin, W. Laird Stabler, Jr., Attorney General, and Jerome 0. Herlihy, Chief Deputy Attorney Gen-

eral of Delaware, Arthur K. Bolton, Attorney General, and Alfred
L. Evans, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of Georgia, Jon A. Lund,
Attorney General, and Lee M. Schepps, Assistant Attorney General
of Maine, Francis B. Burch, Attorney General, and Henry R. Lord,
Deputy Attorney General of Maryland, Robert H. Quinn, former
Attorney General, and Henry Herrmann, Special Assistant Attorney
General of Massachusetts, Warren B. Rudman, Attorney General,
and David H. Souter, Deputy Attorney General of New Hampshire,
William F. Hyland, Attorney General, and Elias Abelson, Assistant
Attorney General of New Jersey, Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General, and Joseph T. Hopkins, Assistant Attorney General of New
York, Robert Morgan, Attorney General, and Jean A. Benoy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Per Curiam

420 U. S.

PER CURIAM.

Before the Court for consideration are the exceptions of
the State of Florida and of the United States to the
Report of the Special Master filed February 19, 1974.
Oral argument has been had.
The case consolidates two proceedings. In the first,
the United States seeks a decree defining the seaward
boundary of the submerged lands of the Continental
Shelf in the Atlantic Ocean in which Florida has rights
to the natural resources. 395 U. S. 955 (1969). In the
second, the State of Florida and the United States seek
a decree defining more specifically than does the decree
entered in United States v. Louisiana, 364 U. S. 502
(1960), the seaward boundary of the submerged lands of
the Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico in which
Florida has rights to the natural resources. 403 U. S.
949 (1971).
In its exceptions to the Report, the State of Florida
maintains that in his recommendations the Special Master should have recognized that the said boundaries
extend to the boundaries defined in the State's 1868
Constitution, rather than to the limits specified in the
Submerged Lands Act of 1953, ยง 2 (b), 67 Stat. 29, 43
U. S. C. ยง 1301 (b); that the Special Master should have
recognized that the Florida Keys and the Straits of
Florida southwest of longitude 25o40' N. are part of the
Gulf of Mexico, rather than of the Atlantic Ocean; that
the Special Master erred in construing the 1868 Constitution of the State as to its Atlantic Ocean boundary
Deputy Attorney General of North Carolina, Richard J. Israel, Attorney General, and W. Slater Allen, Jr., Assistant Attorney General
of Rhode Island, Daniel R. McLeod, Attorney General, and Edward
B. Latimer, Assistant Attorney General of South Carolina, Andrew
P. Miller, Attorney General, and Gerald L. Baliles, Deputy Attorney
General of Virginia, filed a brief for the State of Delaware et al. as
amici curiae.

UNITED STATES v. FLORIDA
531

Per Curiam

and as to its boundary between the Dry Tortugas Islands
and Cape Romano; and that the Special Master erred
in failing to recognize "Florida Bay" as a historic bay
and thus as inland waters of the State.
Having considered each of these exceptions, we conclude that they are correctly answered in the Report of
the Special Master. The exceptions of the State of
Florida are therefore overruled.
In its exceptions to the Report, the United States maintains that the Special Master erred in recommending the
recognition of a portion of Florida Bay as a "juridical"
bay, and in recommending the drawing of "closing lines"
around three groups of islands that make up the Florida
Keys. It appears that these recommendations of the
Special Master were made without benefit of the contentions now advanced by the United States and the opposing contentions now presented by the State of Florida.
The exceptions of the United States are therefore referred to the Special Master for his prompt consideration. He is authorized to conduct any supplemental
proceedings he may find useful with respect to the exceptions of the United States and is requested to file a
supplemental report restricted to the issues raised in
those exceptions.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLAS

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

