OCTOBER TERML,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

BROD1'AX v.
APPEAL FROM

ETNA INSURANCE COMPANY.

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 61. Argued November 1, 188.- Decided November 19, 1888.

The provision in § 1783 of the Code of Georgia, (ed. 1882,) that "the wife
is a feiae sole as to her separate estate, unless controlled by the settlement," and that "while the wife may contract she cannot bind her separate estate by . . . any assumption of the debts of her husband, and
any sale of her separate estate made to a creditor of her husband in
extinguishment of his debt shall also be void," does not apply to a settlement made upon her by the husband, by deed of trust conveying the
property to a trustee free from the debts and liabilities of the husband, and providing that whenever the husband and the wife shall by
written request so direct, the trustee shall execute mortgages of the
property; and does not invalidate an otherwise valid mortgage, executed
by the trustee, on such written request, in order to secure a debt due
from the husband,

THIS was an appeal from a decree for the foreclosure of two
mortgages.
The facts were briefly these: June 11th, 1866, Benjamin H.
Brodnax, being the owner of certain real estate situated in
Richmond County, Georgia, executed and delivered to his
father, William E. Brodnax, a deed thereof in due form, in
consideration of his affection for his wife, Martha Brodnax,
and his duty to suitably provide "further sustenance and
support," in trust to hold the same for the use and benefit of
said Martha during her life, "free from the debts, contracts
and liabilities of her present or any future husband (except
such incumbrances or liens as by the written directions of myself [himself] and the said Martha may be made thereon);"
upon her death to be reconveyed to said Benjamin if he survived her, but if not, then to such person as she might appoint,
and, in case of her failure to appoint, to his heirs. Upon the
written request of said Martha and Benjamin the trustee might
sell and convey, the proceeds to be reinvested in property to

BRODNAX v. -M3TNA INSURANCE CO.
Statement of the Case.

be held upon the same trusts, the purchaser not to be held
responsible for the application of the purchase money.
The trustee was also authorized, whenever Brodnax and his
wife should by written request so direct, to execute mortgages,
liens, or other incumbrances upon the property for such sum
or sums as they should in writing express, the mortgagees not
to be responsible for the proper application of the mortgage
money, or "hindered in any manner from enforcing the lien or
liens of said mortgages."
In case of the death of William E. Brodnax, the trustee, or
of his disability or unwillingness to execute the powers and
duties of the trust, the grantor and his wife were given power
to appoint a successor.
On June 14th, 1866, three days after the date of the deed,
the trustee, in pursuance of the written request of the grantor
and wife, executed a mortgage of the premises to the treasurer
of the Soldiers' Loan and Building Association, to secure a
loan of $2000. This mortgage was accompanied by a release signed by Mrs. Brodnax, aclmowledging the receipt of
five dollars and the advance of two thousand dollars to her
husband and herself, and in consideration thereof releasing all
right "to dower and twelve months' support in, to, and from
the above mortgaged premises, the above deed of mortgage
having first been read over and explained to me."
May 11th, 1867, the trustee in pursuance of the written
direction of Mr. and Mrs. Brodnax, provided for in the deed,
executed another mortgage to the -Etna Insurance Company
for $3193.20, evidenced by a note for that sum to said company, signed by the trustee.
W. A. Brodnax, the trustee, resigned the trust, January 2d,
1868, and said Benjamin I. and his wife appointed, in writing, Ephraim Tweedy as successor in trust, who accepted the
appointment and trust January 3d.
The first mortgage to the Soldiers' Loan Association was
assigned to the Etna Insurance Company, December 4th, 1868.
February 14th, 1869, Mrs. Brodnax obtained a decree of
divorce a vinculo from said Benjamin I., and as alimony
all his right, title and interest in said mortgaged property.

OCTOBER TERM1,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

The fEtna Insurance Company filed its bill to foreclose,
November 18th, 1878, against Martha Brodnax, to which
Tweedy, the trustee, was subsequently made a party, and
which alleged that Brodnax left the jurisdiction in 1869 and
complainant did not know where he was. In her answer,
M rs. Brodnax denied that she received any of the money
the mortgages were given to secure; denied that Brodnax
received the $3193.20, and said that was a sum alleged to be
due the company for money collected by Brodnax, as its
agent, and converted to his own use; and averred that when
she gave the written direction to the trustee to execute the
second mortgage, it was under the pressure of threats by the
company to prosecute her then husband criminally, and that
the consideration of said mortgage was forbearance to prosecute, and that on those grounds the instrument was void.
And she further insisted that both of said mortgages were
attempts to bind her separate estate for her husband's debts,
and therefore illegal.
The evidence tended to show that Mrs. Brodnax did not receive the money secured by either of the mortgages; that. the
note held by the Etna was given for a balance due from Brodnax for premiums collected by him as agent and not paid over;
that Mrs. Brodnaa's brother, and perhaps her mother, told her
that threats of criminal prosecution had been made, but that
the Etna not only did not know of such statements, but had
never made threats of the kind to Brodnax or any one else,
nor meditated, so far as appears, such prosecution; that Mrs.
Brodnax was advised, as to the mortgage to the ,Etna,that
her direction to the trustee to execute it must be voluntary ;
that she took time to consider, and was then perfectly willing
to sign such direction; that she made no complaint of this
character until by her answer filed in May, 1879; and that
she paid several hundred dollars to the zEtna on account
from 1874 to 1877 inclusive. It also appeared that the -Etna
purchased and paid for the first mortgage, to protect its own,
in December, 1868.
A decree of foreclosure was entered, from which the defendants appealed.

BRODNAX v.

=ETNA INSURANCE

CO.

Argument for Appellants.

.ul&.

TF.TV..

fontqgomery for appellants.

Supposing the power to exist, and to have been properly
exercised so far as the instrument is concerned, I submit that
such a power contained in any instrument settling property
upon a married woman is, by the laws of Georgia, void. She
must leave her husband, whom she would most desire to help,
to struggle with his creditors as best he can; the law, dreading
his influence over her, puts her under disability for her own
protection. The language of § 1783 of the code is as follows;
"The wife is a feme sole as to her separate estate, unless controlled by the settlement. Every restriction upon her power
in it must be complied with; but while the wife may contract,
she cannot bind her separate estate by any contract of suretyship, nor by any assumption of the debts of her husband; and
any sale of her separate estate, made to a creditor of her husband in extinguishment of his debts, shall be absolutely void."
Sutton. v. Aiken, Trustee, 62 Georgia, 733, 740; Dink v. Boland, 72 Georgia, 485 ; Capital Bank of .Jfacon v. Rutherford,
70 Georgia, 57; Campbell and Jones v. Xfu'rvay, 62 Georgia, 86.
Money of the wife used by the husband to pay his debt to
a creditor knowing it was the wife's money, can be recovered
by the wife. Chappell v. Boyd, 61 Georgia, 662; -Maddox v.
Oxford, 70 Georgia; 179.
If property of the wife be sold partly to pay her debt, and
partly to pay a debt of her husband, the sale is Void if the
property sold is not severable. Campbell v. T'iunnell, 67
Georgia, 518.
If the instrument contains the power contended for by the
appellee, the power so attempted to be conferred is void.
Code, § 2661, reads: "Impossible, illegal or immoral conditions
are void, and do not invalidate a perfect gift." 1b. § 2296,
reads: "A condition repugnant to the estate granted is void;
so are conditions to do impossible or illegal acts, or which in
themselves are contrary to the policy of the law." Code, §
2723, reads: "Impossible, immoral and illegal conditions are
void, and are binding upon no one." A wife cannot ratify
the act of her husband in using her money to pay his debt.
Captpell v. Boyd, 61 Georgia, 662.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. Joseph Ganahifor appellee.
MIR.

CHIEF

TuSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
If Mrs. Brodnax had the power under the deed of June 11,
1866, to direct the execution of the mortgages to secure her
husband's debts, then the decree must be affirmed.
The objections of counsel to the maintenance of the decree,
other than upon the question of power, do not appear to us
to require serious consideration.
As the evidence stands, no case of duress which could be
availed of was made out in respect to the mortgage to the
insurance company, nor is there any ground for the contention
that the company took the note in compounding a felony.
There was no issue in the case as to whether Brodnax was
living or not, and questions as to dower and the statutory
support for a decedent's widow did not arise. No evidence
was adduced to establish the death of Brodnax, and the averment of the bill in reference to his absence was made diverso
intuitu, and not with the view of setting up his death by
way of presumption, and seeldng relief predicated thereon.
Nor could the decree awarding alimony in 1869 operate to
defeat a decree of foreclosure upon valid mortgages competently executed, or directed to be executed, by her in 1866
and 1861.
The real inquiry is, whether, under the laws of Georgia,
Mrs. Brodnax could pledge the estate granted for her husband's debts.
The rule in Georgia prior to the adoption of the code, as
to the power of a married woman to dispose of her separate
estate, is thus stated in Dallasv. eard, 32 Georgia, 604, 606:
"Whenever property is secured to a feme covert to her sole
and separate use, without qualification, limitations, or restrictions as to its use and enjoyment, she is to be regarded in
respect to such estate, in all respects, as a ferne sole, and it is
chargeable and bound for the payment of all debts contracted
by her that may be secured by promissory note, or other

BRODNAX v. JETNA INSURANCE

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

undertaking in writing, to pay the same, whether said note
is given by her alone, or jointly with others; she being the
soleAnd exclusive owner of the property, she holds it with all
the incidents of property -the right of selling, giving, or
charging it with the payment of debts."
In Ork v. Valentino, 41 Georgia, 143, 147, the court approving of the language just quoted, says by Brown C. J.:
"But it is insisted that this court has laid down a different
rule as to the ability of the wife to bind her separate estate
for the payment of the debts of her husband, in rem)ton v.
Hallowell and Company, 24 Georgia, 52; Hicks, Trustee v.
Johnson, 214 Georgia, 194; and in Keaton v. Scott, 25 Georgia,
652. I think not. In all these cases the property wis given
and secured to the wife by deed or will, and it was expressly
provided in the instrument, that it should in no case be subject to the debts of the husband; and the court held that her
power of alienation was restricted by the donor in the instrument by which she acquired it; and that she could not on
that account bind it for the payment of her husband's debt,
that being the very thing to which the restriction related.
This amounts, however, only to an exception to the general
rule, and is not the rule itself. The rule is, that the ,feine
covert is a feme sole as to her separate estate, with full power
of alienation or disposition at her pleasure. The exception is
that if the donor has restricted the power of alienation or
disposition, she is bound by such restriction, and cannot, directly or indirectly, alienate or bind it, in violation of the
restriction placed upon it by the donor."
The designation of a particular mode in the gift or settlement might preclude the adoption of any other. JTylly v.
Collins, 9 Georgia, 223; Feeks v. Sego, 9 Georgia, 199; but
unless restrained or fettered by the instrument in which her
estate originated, she had the absolute power of disposition.
Fears v. Brooks, 12 Georgia, 195. Of course she could make
such disposition for suclh object and iri such way as was expressly authorized.
The code was adopted in 1863, and § 1773 of the edition of
1867, § 1783 of the edition of 1882, provides as follows: "The
voL. cxxvm-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

wife is a femrn sole as to her separate estate, unless controlled
by the settlement. Every restriction upon her power in it must
be complied with; but while the wife may contract, she cannot
bind her separate estate by any contract of suretyship, nor by
any assumption of the debts of her husband, and any sale of
her separate estate, made to a creditor of her husband in extinguishment of his debts, shall be absolutely void." While
before this enactment a married woman could bind her separate estate for her husband's debts if she held the same free
from restriction, the statute rendered that no longer possible,
by imposing a restriction where none existed. But if an
instrument settling property upon a married woman provides
that sh6 may pledge it for her husband's debts, there is nothing in the statute to prevent her from so doing.
It is not wrong in itself for a wife, of her own free will, to
devote her separate property to the relief of her husband.
Obedience to the dictates of duty, or even yielding to the
impulses of affection, has in itself no tendency to impair the
happiness of the family but the contrary.
As remarked in Sutton v. Aiken, Trustee, 62 Georgia, 733,
741, "it is evident that it is not wicked or immoral for a wife
to pay her husband's debts, nor has the general public an interest in her abstaining from so doing. The restraint imposed
upon her by the law is solely for her benefit and well being.
The rule is economical, not moral; and its policy is in favor of
a class, and not of the public at large. True, the class is a
numerous and important one, but married women cannot be
said to constitute the public. The public justice, police, order,
safety, revenue, health, religion, or morality is not involved in
preventing wives from devoting their property to the payment
of their husbands' debts."
Hence, while the State has seen fit to impose a restriction
where the instrument of gift is silent, or the wife otherwise
holds by an unqualified ownership, it does not follow that the
statute can be extended, upon grounds of general public policy,
to destroy a power expressly bestowed, and render property
inalienable which the donor granted upon condition that it
might be conveyed as specified. It is not to be assumed that

BRODNAX v. IETNA INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the State intended to discourage gifts to, or settlements upon
married women by making it impossible for those who wish
to give to effectuate their intentions in respect to the terms
on which the property should be held and disposed of.
The wife is "controlled by the settlement," not only as to
compliance with "every restriction upon her power," but also
as to every provision therein which enables her to act as prescribed, notwithstanding, except for such provision, she could
not, under the statute, do that which as a feme sole she might
do. The wife cannot bind her separate estate "by any assumption of the debts of her husband," but the separate estate
which she cannot thus bind is estate so settled to her sole
and separate use as to be controlled without the concurrence
of her husband; and where, by the terms of the instrument,
his concurrence is essential to whatever is done, it is not so
situated as to come within the intent and meaning of the
statute.
The property in question belonged to Brodnax. He conveyed it to a trustee by an instrument which required his
assent to any sale or mortgage, and provided that the property should be held free from his debts contracts and liabilities, except such incumbrances or liens as might be made
thereon at the written direction of himself and his wife. Under
such circumstances the statute cannot be availed of to invalidate these mortgages; and this disposes of the case, for the
mortgages were, in our judgment, such incumbrances as Mrs.
Brodnax had the power to direct jointly with her husband to
be created.
The meaning of the clause of the deed bearing on this subject is, that while the property was to be free from the contracts, debts and liabilities, of the husband it might be specially subjected to encumbrance to secure some of his debts,
upon the written agreement of both husband and wife to that
effect. This exception cannot be rejected as inconsistent with
the previous provision, for it does not go to destroy it. In the
particular instances in which she might choose to join with
Brodnax in doing what he had not reserved the legal right
to demand, debts might be made a charge upon the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Appellants.

which was otherwise to be held free from all his debts.

And

in this view it does not matter whethe the debt secured was

past due or not.
Te decree of the Circuit Court will therefore be aglrmed.

BANKS v'. MANCHESTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 45. Submitted October 29, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

In a hearing on bill and answer, allegations of new matter in the answer
are to be taken as true.
Where the judge of the Supreme Court of a State prepares the opinion
or decision of the court, the statemdht of the case and the syllabus or
head-note, and the reporter of the court takes out a copyright for such
matter in his name "for the State," the copyright is invalid.
A copyright, as it exists in the United States, depends wholly on the legislation of Congress.
The judge who, in his judicial capacity, prepares the matter above mentioned, is not its author or proprietor, in the sense of § 4952 of the Revised Statutes, so that the State can become his assignee and take out a
copyright for such matter. -

BILL IN EQUITY,

to restrain the defendant from infringing

the plaintiffs' copyright. The defendant answered, and the
complainant demurred to the answer. Decree dismissing the
bill, from which plaintiffs appealed. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
_JTn. Edward I. Taylor, for appellants, cited: United States
v. llillegas's Executors, 3 Wash. 0. 0'O; Hines v. .North Carolina, 10 Sm. & Marsh. 529; Mexico v. De Arangois, 5 Duer
(N. Y.) 634:; TVAeator v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591; Banks v. De
Witt, 42 Ohio St. 263 ; -littlev. Gould, 2 Blatchford, 362; Stationers v. Patentees about the Printing of Rolls' Abridgment,
Carter, 89; -Millerv. Taylor. 4 Burrow, 2383; Basket v. University of Cambridge, 1 Wm. Bl. 105; .Myers v. Callaghan,5

