OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

abandoned and cancelled in iNovember, 1881, in Philadelphia.
Even if she had the power so to do under the circumstances,
still it was not done. The averments of the answer are not
only not proved, but are even disproved by Hobbs himself.
Hobbs was an officer of the Water Works Company. In his
first deposition he gives this version of the transaction relied
on in the answer. He says: "[ got on the train and went to
Philadelphia and told Mr. Starr we insisted upon the payment
of that amount and others, and if it was not paid or absolutely
provided for while I was there in the city for a day or so, that
I should return to Joliet, and the understanding was that Mr.
Knowlton and myself would withdraw from the company;
Mr. Starr failed, after various plans he had made, to produce
the money; he failed in furnishing it, and I returned, he following me back within a few days, and we then -withdrew
from the company."
The witness is here speaking, as elsewhere appears, of not
only this debt, but also of the general liabilities of the concern. Subsequently to this, he still demanded the money from
Starr. Pomeroy on Specific Performance, 395, 396; Reynolds
v. lVelson, 6 Madd. 18, 19.
As between the appellant and the bondholders, represented
by the trustee, it would be inequitable to refuse the consummation of her bargain.
The decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

WOOD

v. GUARANTEE TRUST AND
POSIT COM\[PANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

SAFE DE-

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 21.

Submitted April 25,1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

A debt contracted for "construction" is not entitled to the priority of payment, in proceedings for the foreclosure of a mortgage of the property
of a railroad corporation, which is recognized in Fosdick v. Schall, 96

WOOD v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Statement of the Case.
U. S. 235, as the equitable right in some cases of a creditor for "operating expenses."
The doctrine in Fosdick v. chall has never yet been applied in any case
except that of a railroad, and whether it will be applied to any other
case, qu re.
When a third party with his own money takes up maturing coupons on
bonds of a corporation, without knowledge of the holders, it is a question of fact, to be determined by the proof, whether it is intended to be
a payment, or a purchase which leaves the coupons outstanding.
The coupons in dispute in this case having been dishonored before they
came into the hands of the appellants, were subject in their hands to all
defences which existed against their assignor; and, it being evident
that, without the knowledge of the holders of the bonds to which those
coupons were attached, he used his money to pay the coupons on bonds
which had been sold solely in order to enable him to float the rest of the
issue; Held, that it would be inequitable to allow him, either a preference over those to whom he had sold the bonds, or coequal rights with
them.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

This is an appeal by interveners in the suit, one branch of
which has been disposed of in the preceding case of Brown v.
Guarantee Tiust and Safe Deposit Company, ante, 403. In
addition to the facts set forth in that case, and which need not
be repeated here, it may be stated that on the 23d of May,
1883, an order of the court below was entered, directing the
holders of the bonds and coupons issued by the City of Joliet
Water Works Company, and secured by mortgage to the
appellee in this case, to present them to the clerk of the court,
by a certain day, for payment thereon out of the funds then
in the hands of that officer.
Pursuant thereto, appellants in this case filed 473 of said
coupons held by them, and with them a petition praying that
said coupons be decreed to have, in the distribution of said
funds, priority of payment as against any of the holders or
owners of the said bonds or the subsequently maturing coupons.
The petition alleges, in substance, that for material sold and
delivered to Jesse W. Starr, which he used in the construction
of his water works system, he was in debt to them $14,000, in
part payment of which he transferred to them, in October,
1882, these 473 coupons, at par value, amounting to $7095,
VOL. cxxvii-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

and interest from maturity; that the said coupons presented
by appellants fell due before the completion of said water
works; that upon many of them the amount due at maturity
was advanced by Starr to the bondholders, who transferred
the same to him; and that the said advance was made out of
money which Starr ought to have applied to the payment of
his indebtedness for the materki so used, and which now constitutes a part of the system of the said water works.
The answer of the appellee contains substantially the statements of the cross-bill set forth in the preceding case. It
denies that the coupons presented by appellants had any validity whatever as a lien upon said funds in the custody of the
clerk; alleges that all of them were delivered after they were
due; and that of the 473 coupons held by appellants, 279 falling due January 1, 1881, and 77 of the 194 falling due July 1,
1881, were detached from the bonds by Starr before they
were sold, and before the coupons themselves became dueonly 117 being sold with the bonds prior to their maturity.
It further alleges that these last coupons were extinguished,
cancelled and paid; that the holders of the bonds, who, as requested, presented said coupons for payment at the office of
Starr's broker, had n6 thought of selling them, and, in fact,
did not sell them; that all these acts of Starr -cutting off
withheld
some and taking up others of said coupons -were
from the knowledge of said bondholders, were deceptive and
fraudulent, were intended to conceal from appellee and the
public the fact that the said Water Works Company was insolvent, and, in reality, making default in payment of the
interest coupons; and that, as said coupons were delivered by
Starr to appellants long after their maturity, they took them
subject to all defences which might have been urged against
Starr himself.
On Mfay 12th, 1884, the petition of appellants was dismissed
at their costs, from which action they have brought this

appeal.
Xf. Charles A. Dupee and Mtr.lf
appellants.

onroe L. Willard for

WOOD v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Argument for Appellants.

I. As to the coupons actually cashed by Starr. These coupons were about 117 in numtzer. At the time Starr paid them
he was owing R. D. Wood & Co. about $14,000 for material
which they had, during the few months then preceding, furnished him for the construction of his water works system,
and which material became a permanent component part of
said system. The money which Starr had been and then was
raising was raised for the express purpose of defraying the
expense of construction of said system. Therefore it was
Starr's primary duty to use his money for such purpose, -just
as it is the primary duty of railroad companies to apply the
earnings of their roads to the payment of current expenses.
But the coupons came due before he had finished his construction. If he should allow them to go to default, the whole
enterprise would be wrecked. Therefore, honestly supposing,
as we believe, that he would soon have his system completed
and on a paying basis, he diverted the funds, which he should
have used in paying R. D. Wood & Co., to the purpose of
taking up the coupons, and thus avoiding a foreclosure -just
as, in the hope of averting disastrous foreclosures, railroad
companies have at times diverted funds, which should have
been used in paying current expenses, to the payment of mortgage interest. The bondholders got not only the material,
but the money which should have been applied in payment
thereof. We submit that the claim of appellants, who took
these coupons in actual part payment of their bill against
Starr, comes exactly within the equitable principles laid down
in Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235, and that, without regard to
whether the coupons were transferredor paid, or were subject
to such set-offs as might have existed between the Water
Works Company and Starr.
The appellants contend that these coupons were transferred
to Starr, and were not so paid as to extinguish their lien.
Beasley & Co. suggested to Starr that it would be well for
them to pay the coupons. He assented. They informed some
of the bondholders that the coupons would be paid at their
office in New York. By the mortgage, they were payable in
Philadelphia. Beasley & Co. were at no time the company's

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

agents, but Stares. The bondholders knew this, or could have
learned it by inquiry. The coupons were paid with Starr's
money- not the company's. The bondholders knew this, or
could have learned it by inquiry. The facts put them on inquiry, but they made none; nor did they cancel the coupons
or cause them to be cancelled. Under such circumstances
Starr and his assignees for value should be subrogated to all
the rights the holders of the coupons had. Hetchum v. Duncan, 96 U. S. 659.
II. As to the balance of the coupons, the appellants have
similar equities. It is true the coupons do not stand in the
position of having been cashed for the bondholders, but they
were delivered to Starr by the company as part consideration
for his construction contract, and remained in his possession
until delivered by him to appellants in part payment for a portion of the cost of construction. The company never paid a
dollar on them. It would be but carrying out the purpose of
their delivery to Starr, to allow their paynient in favor of the
construction creditors who hold them, and who have suffered
more from Starr than any of the bondholders, except, perhaps,
one.
There is no pretence that these coupons were everpaid by
anybody. The fact that Starr defaced a large number of
them cannot change this.
Xr. J L. High for appellees.
AE_.

JUSTICE

LAM&R,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In this appeal the ftrst claim advanced is, that since the 111
coupons, parcel of the lot in controversy, were paid by Starr
with the funds that he had raised for the express purpose of
defraying the expense of constructing the water works, it was
his primary duty so to use the money; and that his failure so
to do amounted to a diversion, which will entitle the appellants to a priority, under the doctrine of Fosdick v. Sehall, 99
U. S. 235.

WOOD v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The argument is unsound. There are several answers to it.
First, it overlooks the vital distinction between a debt for construction, and one for operating expenses. The doctrine of
Fosdick v. &kca.ll is applicable wholly to the latter class of
liabilities. In the case of Cowdrey v. Galvestonm .aiload, 93
U. S. 352, it was settled that the doctrine does not apply
where it is a question of original construction. Secondly, it
overlooks the important fact that the doctrine only applies
vhere there is a diversion of the income of a "going concern"
from the purpose to which that income is equitably primarily
devoted; viz., the payment of the operating expenses of the
concern. In other words, the income must be first devoted
to the expenses of producing the income. In this case it is not
pretended that the money used in paying the 11-7 coupons in
question was income of the Water Works Company. Thirdly,
the doctrine of Fosdick v. Schall has never yet been applied
in any case, except that of a railroad. The case lays great
emphasis on the consideration that a railroad is a peculiar
property, of a public nature, and discharging a great public
work. There is a broad distinction between such a case and
that of a purely private concern. We do not undertake to decide the question here, but only point it out. There is other
ample ground upon which to decide this question.
It is further insisted, in reference to the 117 coupons, that
appellants are entitled to recover on them in their own right,
as owners, and independently of the doctrine of Fosdick v.
SocIhall. These coupons matured July 1, 1881. Appellants
came into possession of them in October, 1882 -fifteen months
after they were dishonored. If any defence existed against
them in Starr's hands, the same defence is available now
against Starr's assignee. It is claimed by the appellee that
before the appellants acquired them they had been in fact
paid. This is denied; and the case of Ketchu'in v. Duncan,
96 U. S.659, is relied on to support the denial.
The facts and the reasoning of the court in that case are as
follows: "Duncan, Sherman & Co., who furnished the money
which the former owners received for the coupons, did not
intend to pay them in any such sense as to relieve the railroad

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

company from its obligation. By advancing the money, and
directing its payment to the holders of the coupons, they intended to take the place of those holders, and to become the
owners of the evidences of the company's debt; or, in other
words, they intended to obtain for themselves the rights of
purchasers. They did not advance the money either to or for
the company. Certainly, they did not intend to extinguish
the coupons. Of this the evidence is very full. The firm had
made advances to the company to pay the coupons due in
November, 1873, as well as interest due in January and March,
1874, amounting to a very large sum. These advances bad
not been repaid when the May coupons fell due. Those
coupons the company was then utterly unable to take up.
In near prospect of this inability, William B. Duncan, the
head of the firm, on the 28th of April, 1874, telegraphed from
New York to the company at Mobile that his firm would purchase for their own account sterling coupons, payable in london. The firm also telegraphed to the Bank of Mobile and
to the Union Bank of London to purchase the coupons there
presented for them, charging their account with the cost,
and transmitting the coupons uncancelled.' The railroad company acceded to the proposition made them, and the Bank of
Mobile and the Union Bank did also. Similar arrangements
were made respecting the November coupons, except that
Duncan, Sherman & Co. arranged with the Cr6dit Foncier to
make the purchase in London. Both these banks were agents
of the firm in the transactions. They were not agents of the
railroad company. They had no funds of the company in
hand. In taking up the coupons they acted for Duncan, Sherman & Co., charged the cost to their account, transmitted to
them the coupons taken up without cancellation, and were
repaid by them. In view of these facts it is manifest that,
whatever may have been the nature of the transaction by
which the coupons passed from the hands of the former holders
into 'the possession of Duncan, Sherman & Co., it was not intended by the firm to be a payment or extinguishment of the
company's liability. Neither they, nor the company, nor the
Bank of Mobile, nor the Union Bank, nor the Credit Foncier,

WOOD v. GUARANTEE

TRUST CO.

Opinion of the Court.

so intended or understood it. Was it, then, a payment? It
is as difficult to see how there can be a payment and extinguishment thereby of a debt without any intention to pay it,
as it is to see how there can be a sale without an intention
to sell.
"But that the coupons were either paid, or transferred to
Duncan, Sherman & Co. unpaid, is plain enough. The transaction, whatever it was, must have been a payment, or a transfer by gift or purchase. Was it, then, a purchase ? It is undoubtedly true that it is essential to a sale that both parties
should consent to it. We may admit, also, that ' where, as in
this case, a sale, compared with payment, is prejudicial to the
holder's interest, by continuing the burden of the coupons upon
the common security, and lessening its value in reference to the
principal debt, the intent to sell should be clearly proved.'
But the intent to sell, or the assent of the former owner to a
sale, need not have been expressly given. It may be inferred
from the circumstances of the transaction. It often is. In
the present case, the nature of the subject cannot be overlooked. Interest-coupons are instruments of a peculiar character. The title to them passes from hand to hand by mere
delivery. A transfer of possession is presumptively a transfer
of title. And especially is this true when the transfer is made
to one who is not a debtor, to one who is under no obligation
to receive them or to pay them. A holder is not warranted to
believe that such a person intended to extinguish the coupons
when he hands over the sum called for by them and takes
them into his possession. It is not in accordance with common experience for one man to pay the debt of another, without receiving any benefit from his act. We cannot close our
eyes to things that are of daily occurrence. It is within common knowledge that interest-coupons, alike those that are not
due and those that are due, are passed from hand to hand;
the receiver paying the amount they call for, without any intention on his part to extinguish them, and without any belief in the other party that they are extinguished by the transaction. In such a case, the holder intends to transfer his
title, not to extinguish the debt.. In multitudes of cases, cou-

OCTOBER TERM,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

pons are transferred by persons who are not the owners of
the bonds from which they have been detached. To hold that
in all these cases the coupons are paid and extinguished, and
not transferred or assigned, unless there was something more
to show an assent of the person parting with the possession
that they should remain alive, and be available in the hands
of the person to whom they were delivered, would, we think,
be inconsistent with the common understanding of business
men."
That case clearly settles the proposition that in such a
matter as this, the question, as.between payment and purchase,
is one of fact rather than of law, to be settled by the evidence,
largely presumptive, generally, in the case. It is a question
of the intention of the parties.
In .Eetchum v. Duncan stress was laid on these circumstances, viz., that the persons alleged to have paid the coupons
had no connection with the company issuing the coupons, or
interest in it; that they had repeatedly and publicly notified the
holders of the bonds and coupons that the coupons were to be
purchased, not paid; and that the coupons were carefully received and preserved uncancelled. In the case at bar the conditions are radically different. Starr is essentially (that is,
from a business point of view) the Water Works Company,
owning, as he does, 19,500 of its 20,000 shares of stock. Its
prosperity is "manifestly his prosperity, its disaster his disaster,
and any disbursement made by it is substantially made by him.
There is, therefore, no inherent improbability that he intended
to pay the coupons, as he indeed instructed his agents, the
biokers, that he did. Mhforeover, such notice as was given to
call in the coupons, was notice of payment, not of purchase, so
far as the evidence discloses the character at all. Finally, the
coupons were cancelled by Starr; all of them being punctured
and defaced by mucilage, and about one-half having the word
"paid"1 written across them, in which condition they were
received by the appellants. Looking to the testimony, we
decline to disturb the finding of the master and of the Circuit
Court.
The same consideration of .the substantial identity between

WOOD v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Starr and the Water Works Company is of great weight in
the determination of the remaining question as to the other
356 coupons. Whatever might be the right of a holder of
overdue coupons cut from a bond which is afterwards sold to a
bonafde purchaser, as between such purchaser and the couponholder that question does not arise here.
The case before us is a peculiar one, and must be adjudged
on its own facts. As we have already said, Starr was, from
a business point of view, substantially the company. Not
only was it his object to float the bonds, but to float the company, as well. Hence, when he came to sell these bonds, he
arranged with his brokers, Beasley & Co., in reference to the
July coupons, (series No. 2). Under that arrangement, such
of the coupons as were attached to, and had been sold with,
the bonds sold early in the year of 1881, were paid by Beasley
& Co., the price was charged to Starr, and the coupons were
delivered to him. Such of the coupons as were attached to
bonds not themselves sold until the month of June, 1881, were
detached from the bonds before sale, and were not charged to
Starr, but were delivered to him as property of the company.
The coupons of January, 1881, were all detached from the
bonds before they were deposited with Beasley.
Now, why all this arrangement and management? To use
the language of Mr. Beasley: "It would have been irregular
and unbusinesslike to offer for sale or attempt to dispose of
the bonds, not then known In the za'ket, with overdue coupons
attached." In brief, Starr was engaged in floating these bonds.
They were not, as the testimony and the history of the case
shows, good bonds. He was very careful to prevent anything
from transpiring that would injure their credit. He cut off
the coupons that were due and unpaid, so long as the bonds
remained in his possession, and put up some money to redeem
coupons which fell due on bonds that had been sold, so long as
he was still engaged in selling other bonds. It looks very
much as if Mr. Starr had dug a pit, and was anxiously keeping
the pathway to it in good order. It would be inequitable, in
our opinion, to allow him to bring forward these coupons as the
basis of any preference over, or of even coequal rights with,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

those to whom he sold his bonds; and the plaintiff, having
taken these coupons when overdue, had no greater rights than
he had in this respect. If the courts were to sanction such
claims, the commercial securities of the world would be nullified.
The decree of the Circuit Court is aijrmed.

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (Limited) v.
WICKHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 1032. Submitted November 12, 1888.-

Decided November 26,1888.

Each question certified in a certificate of division of opinion (1) Must be a distinct point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so
that it can be definitely answered, without regard to other issues
of law in the case;
(2) Must be a question of law only, and not a question of fact, or of
mixed law and fact, and hence must "not involve or imply a conclusion or judgment on the weight or effect of testimony or facts
adduced in the cause; and,
(3) Must not embrace the whole case, even when its decision turns upon
matter of law only, and even though it be split up into the form
of questions.
In a certificate of division of opinion the question whether parol evidence
may or may not be introduced to explain such documents as those which
were given in evidence by the defendant at the trial of this cause, and
which are set forth in the statement of facts below, is a question of pure
law, presenting but a single point for consideration, and the fact that
many writings, all of the same general character, were offered to prove
the same fact, does not make the case to differ.

The court stated the case as follows:
This case comes here by writ of error and a certificate of
division of opinion of the judges of the Circuit Court. The
action was brought upon a policy of insurance against fire to
recover damages occasioned by the burning of the propeller
St. Paul, of which the plaintiffs below, the defendants in error,
MOTION TO DISMISS.

