OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

estimate here in both particulars was subject to be examined
by the Department before the patents were issued; and any
alleged error in it cannot afterwards be made ground for impeaching their validity.
Deeree afirrned.

STACHELBERG v. PONCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAINE.
No. 51. Argued October 31, 1888.-Decided December 17, 1888.

On the proofs; Held, that the complainant's right to the exclusive use
of his alleged trade-mark is not established; and that he is not entitled
to the equitable relief which he asks for in this suit.

THIS was a trade-mark case. The principal relief asked by
the appellants, who were the plaintiffs below, was a decree
enjoining the appellee, who was the defendant below, his
agents and servants, from using as a trade-name in their
business of manufacturing and selling cigars, the words
"Normandie," or "E. P. Normanda," or "La Normanda," or
"lormanda;" such use of those words being, it was alleged,
a violation of the right of the plaintiffs to the exclusive use
of the words "La Normandi" and "Normandi" in their
business of manufacturing and selling cigars of a certain
kind.
It was alleged, among other things, that one Asher Bijur,
of New York, was engaged from 1858 to 1865 in manufacturing and packing cigars of various grades and shapes,
some of which, of superior quality, were called "La Normahdi," and were put up in boxes containing two hundred
and fifty each, labelled and branded with those words; that,
being of ie stock, skilfully made, and of a shape that
pleased the eye, his cigars, of that kind, became widely
known, gaining great favor with the public, particularly in
the New England States; that the first use by any one,

STACHELBERG v. PONCE.
Statement of the Case.

engaged in the manufacture, packing, or sale of cigars, of
the words "La Normandi" or "Normandi" was by him,
those words constituting his trade-mark for cigars of the
above description; that on or about February, 1865, he
assigned, sold, transferred, and conveyed to the plaintiff,
Michael Stachelberg, his heirs and assigns, all his right, title,
and interest in and to the exclusive use of the words "La
Normandi" and "lormandi;" that on or about January 1,
1873, the plaintiffs formed a partnership under the firm-name
of X. Stachelberg & Co., said trade-mark becoming their
joint property; that since said assignment they had been
engaged in manufacturing cigars under the names "La Normandi" and "Normandi," bestowing great care upon their
packing; putting them up in bunches, (each bunch being
tied with a peculiar colored and striped ribbon,) and offering
them for sale in boxes containing two hundred and fifty
cigars each, branded with the words "La Normandi;" and
that they had incurred great expense in bringing such cigars
so named to public attention, whereby large profits had
accrued from their sale.
The bill also stated that on the 19th of February, 1876,
the plaintiffs deposited in the Patent Office at Washington
the name "Normandi" as a trade-mark, and, March 7, 1876,
received from that office a certificate, showing such record;
that after said assignment, and up to the date of and since
such deposit, they had used the word "Normandi," with the
prefix "La," and that by virtue of such assignment, and of
their uninterrupted use of the words "La Normandi," they
acquired and had the sole and exclusive right to use them,
as a trade-mark.
It was further alleged that since January 1, 1881, the
defendant Ponce had been manufacturing, and causing to
be manufactured, and offering for sale, cigars substantially
similar in shape, size, and outward appearance, to their La
Normandi cigars, and had put them in boxes of the same
pattern, general shape and size, and tied with ribbons colored
and striped and resembling the ribbons used by them, his
boxes being branded some with "Normanda," some "E. P.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Kormanda," and others " N ormandie;" whereby the defendant had fraudulently imposed and, unless restrained from
so doing would continue to impose upon the public his cigars
as the real "La Kormandi" cigars, manufactured, put up, and
sold first by Bijur and afterwards by the plaintiffs, and
whereby, also, great and irreparable injury would be done
to the plaintiffs in their business.
The defendant admitted in his answer that he had sold
cigars under the brand or label of "La Normanda;" but those
words, he alleged, had always been accompanied on the boxes
or packages containing them by the words E. P., or E. Ponce,
or Ernesto Ponce, and sometimes by the words "Portland,
Maine," thus indicating the manufacturer and the place at
which his cigars were made. Denying that his trade-mark
infringed the alleged trade-name of the plaintiffs, or that he
intended to use any trade-name of theirs, he insisted that Bijur
did not, and could not, have an exclusive right to the words
"La Normandi" as a trade-mark; that the words "Normandi" and "K ormanda" were of foreign origin and of different significations, the former being a geographical and the
latter a personal name; that the word "K ormanda" had long
been publicly used as a name or designation for cigars, was
stamped upon boxes and packages containing them long prior,
to any of the alleged rights of the complainants; and that
such terms were in public use as a designating mark for a
manufacture of cigars at Havana as early as 1861, and were
so used, in that year, as a brand for cigars put up and sold by
him, as well as by others. He contended that there was
nothing in the shape or size of his cigars, or in the manner in
which he bundled or tied them up, which could be exclusively
appropriated by the plaintiffs. In respect to the use of the
words "La Kormandie," he denied that he had ever manufactured, or ordered to be manufactured, any cigars branded with
those words, although in the course of his business he had
bought and sold other and common brands of cigars marked
in that way.
It was in proof that the alleged trade-mark, La Kormandi,
was used by the assignor of the plaintiffs as part of a label

STACETELBERG v. PONCE.
Statement of the Case.

that consisted of those words, printed at the top thereof; a
picture, immediately below those words, of the interior of a
cigar factory while occupied by the employ~s of the manufacturer; and a fac-simile of Bijur's signature, together with the
initials "A. B." The label used by the plaintiff consisted of the
words "La Normandi" at its top, beneath those words a picture of the interior of a cigar factory as above stated, and at
the bottom of the picture the following words and a fac-simile
signature of M. Stachelberg, to wit: "Genuine La Normandi
Segars are branded with my initials and (
the labels
inside are signed in my own handwriting. At. Stachelberg.
Entered according to act of Congr. A.D. 1866 by M. Stachelberg in the Clerk's Office of the Dis. Court of the Southern
District of N. Y." 3
By the decree below, the bill was dismissed, upon the ground
that when a right to the use of a trade-mark was transferred,
either by the act of the original owner or by operation of law,
"the fact of transfer should be stated in connection with its
use; otherwise a deception would be practised upon the public." Stachelbe'g v. Ponce, 23 Fed. Rep. 430.
1 The appellants' brief contained a copy of this label, as used by the
complainants, from which copy the following cut has been made.
I

-,-

Ui- -\

.

-&~

VOL. cxxvm=-44

~

N

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ir.Rowland Cox for appellants.
.Mr. William Henry 01iiford for appellee.
Mx.

JUSTiCE

Hi.Lx delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts as above, he continued: We are of
opinion that the plaintiffs are not entitled to an injunction restraining the defendant from using the words "La Normanda"
or "iNormanda" as part of a brand or label for cigars manufactured or sold by him. If it was satisfactorily shown that
those words were not used in the trade to designate a particular kind of cigars, until after the words "La Normandi" or
" Normandi" had become a part of the established trade-mark
of Bijur, it might be necessary to consider whether the former
words taken in connection with the entire label or brand used
by the defendant, his mode of packing his cigars, and their
size and appearance, were calculated to deceive the public by
inducing the belief that they were the same cigars as La
Kormandi cigars, manufactured and sold by Bijur, and by the
plaintiffs. But no such case is made by the proof. On the
contrary it appears, by a preponderance of evidence: 1. That
the mode in which Bijur, and after him Stachelberg & Co.,
packed their La Normandi cigars, the kind of boxes used by
them, the number of cigars in each bunch, the particular color
of the ribbon or tape around each bunch of twenty-five, the
putting of two hundred and fifty cigars in each box, and the
size and shape of the cigars, were all old in the trade, preceding, in point of time, the adoption by Bijur of the words "La
Normandi" as part of his trade-name; 2. That for several
years prior to the adoption by Bijur of his trade-mark, and
from about that date until the bringing of this suit, cigars
resembling the La Normandi cigars, in size and shape, in the
color of the ribbon or tape by which the bunches of twentyfive were tied, and in the manner in which they were put up
and packed, were and have been made and sold, in quite large
numbers, in different parts of this country, under the name of
"La Normanda." An effort is made to discredit the evidence

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
Syllabus.

establishing these facts, by showing by witnesses, engaged for
many years in the business of manufacturing and selling cigars,
that they never knew or heard of any being sold under the
name of "La Normanda." But the evidence to that effect is
entirely negative in its character, and is not sufficient to overcome the direct, positive testimony of witnesses, some of whom,
as early as 1853, actually manufactured and sold "La Normanda" cigars of the kind above described, while others
remember that domestic cigars, under that designation, were
in the market before Bijur commenced the manufacture of the
"La Normandi" cigars. In this view of the evidence the
plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief asked. The adoption
by Bijur of the words "La lormandi," as part of his trademark, could not take away the right previously acquired by
the public in the use of the words "La Normanda" as indicating a particular kind of cigars.
This conclusion is sufficient to dispose of the case, and renders it unnecessary to consider other grounds upon which, it is
insisted, the decree below should be sustained.
The decree is affi'med.

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
.APFEA.

FROM THE

COUIT COURT OF THE U ITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 41.

Argued and submitted October 26, 1858. -

Decided December 17, 1888.

When lands are granted according to an official plat of their survey, the
plat, with its notes, lines, descriptions and landmarks, becomes as much
a part of the grant or deed by which they are conveyed, and, so far as
limits are concerned, controls as much as if such descriptive features
were written out on the face of the deed or grant.
It is not within the province of a Circuit Court of the United States or of
this court to consider and determine whether an official survey duly
made, with a plat thereof filed in the District Land Office, is erroneous;
but, with an exception referred to in the opinion, the correction of
errors in such surveys have devolved from the earliest days upon the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the supervision of his

