UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

315

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. AIERICAN BELL TELEPHO NE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAESSACHUSETTS.
No. 846. Argued October 9,10, 188. -Decided

November 12,1888.

A bill in equity which assails two patents, issued nearly a year apart, but
to the same party, and relating to the same subject, both held by the
same corporation defendant, and used by it in the same operations, is
not multifarious.
Where a patent for a grant of any kind, issued by the United States, has
been obtained by fraud, by mistake, or by accident, or where there is
any error in the patent itself capable of correction, a suit by the United
States against the patentee is the appropriate remedy for relief. This
proposition is supported by precedents in the High Court of Chancery of
England, and in other courts of that country.
The more usual remedy, under the English law, to repeal or revoke a patent,

obtained by fraud from the King, was a writ of sefre facas, returnable
either into the Court of King's Bench or of Chancery; though it has
been said that the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery arises, not from
its general jurisdiction to give relief for fraud, but because the patents
issuing from the King were kept as records in the petty-bag office of
that court. The case, however, of The Attorney General v. Vernon, 1
Vernon, 277, and other cases seem to indicate that, by virtue of its general equity powers, the Court of Chancery had jurisdiction to give relief
against fraud in obtaining patents.
In England grants and charters for special privileges were supposed to
issue from the King, as prerogatives of the Crown; and the power to
annul them was long exercised by the King by his own order or decree.
This mode of vacating charters and patents gradually fell into disuse;
and the same object was obtained by seire facias, returnable into the

Court of King's Bench, or of Chancery.
In this country, where there is no kingly prerogative, but where patents
for lands and inventions are issued by the authority of the government,
and by officers appointed for that purpose, who may have been imposed
upon by fraud or deceit, or may have erred as to their power, or made
mistakes in the instrument itself, the remedy for such evils is by proceedings before the judicial department of the government.
Both the Constitution and the acts of Congress organizing the courts of
the United States have, in express terms, provided that the United States
may bring suits in those courts; and they are all very largely engaged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
the business of affording a remedy where the United States has a legal
right to relief.
The present suit-a bill in Chancery in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, wherein the United States are
plaintiffs, brought against the defendant to set aside patents for inventions on the ground that they were obtained by fraud- is a proper subject of the jurisdiction of that court, as defined in § 1, c. 37, Act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470; and is well brought under the direction of
the Solicitor General on account of the disability of the Attorney General to take part in the case; and its allegations of fraud and deception
on the part of the patentee in procuring the patents are sufficient, if
sustained, to authorize a decree setting aside and vacating the patents as
null and void.
Section 4920 of the levised Statutes, which enumerates five grounds of
defence to a patent for an invention that may be set up by any one
charged with an infringement of the rights of the patentee, was not
intended to supersede, nor does it operate as a repeal or withdrawal of
the right of the government to institute an action to vacate a patent for
fraud.

The object of the bill, which was signed by the
District Attorney of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, and the Solicitor General, acting in this case
as Attorney General, was to obtain the cancellation, avoidance, recall and repeal of the two patents granted to Alexander Graham ]Bell, which formed the subject of the litigation
in T]he Telephone Cases, and which will be found in 126 U. S.,
at pages 4 and 15, one being numbered 174,465, and dated
March 7, 1876; the other No. 186,787, dated January 30,
1877. It was charged that the patents were and each of them
was "procured to be issued by means of fraud, false suggestion, concealment and wrong on the part of the said Alexander Graham Bell," and that he and the Telephone Company,
which was his assignee, had at all times known and had full
knowledge of the alleged frauds and concealment.
It was alleged "that up to the time of the issuing of the
said [first] patent, the said Bell had never in fact been able to
transmit articulate speech by the method or with the apparatus described in his said application, but that he purposely
framed his said application and claim in ambiguous and general terms, in order to cover both antecedent and future inventions, and to deceive and mislead the examiners of the
I

EQuITY.

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

317

Statement of the Case.

Patent Office and the public, and did not set forth or declare
that his alleged invention had any relation to the art of transmitting articulate speech by means of electricity, but entitled
it an application for 'an improvement in telegraphy,' and
made special reference to a then recent application made by
himself for a patent for a method of 'multiple telegraphy,'
and treated his alleged new invention as another method
thereof, and set forth advantages which it had over the other,
but did not include or mention its capacity, or claim for it any
capacity, to transmit speech.
"And your orator further shows and charges that by the
means aforesaid the said Bell not only failed to meet the requirements of the statute as to the form of his application,
but did in fact mislead and deceive the examining officers of
the Patent Office, and did cause them to regard the said
alleged invention as a mere improvement in telegraphy, and
not as an invention of the telephone, and did lead them to
suppose that it had no relation to the art of transmitting
articulate speech by electricity, and did thus cause them not
to make an inquiry as to the state of that art, or the patents
or the printed publications concerning it; that accordingly no
such inquiry was made by any of them, and that thereby the
said Bell did mislead and deceive your orator, and did cause
your orator to issue the said patent No. 174,465 in the form
and according to the tenor aforesaid, and that but for the said
delusive and ambiguous application the said patent would not
have been granted or issued by your orator as aforesaid;
wherefore your orator avers that the said patent No. 174,465,
issued upon said delusive and ambiguous application, was and
is void and of no effect.
"Your orator further avers and charges, upon information
and belief, that at the time of filing the'said application the
said Bell was not the original and first inventor of all the improvements in telegraphy described and claimed in the said
specification; that certain of the aforesaid so-called improvements had been previously known to and used by others, as is
hereinafter more fully and at large set forth; that the said
Bell, on the said 20th day of January, 1876, and at the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

of filing the said application, did not verily believe himself to
be the original and first inventor of all the so-called improvements in telegraphy described and claimed in the said specification; and that on the said 20th day of January, 1876, and
at the time of filing the said application, the said Bell did
know and did believe that certain of the so-called improvements in telegraphy described and claimed in the specification
aforesaid had been previously known to and used by others,
as is hereinafter more fully set forth.
"And your orator avers and charges that the said untrue
statements made by said Bell as aforesaid constituted deception and fraud upon your orator by the said Bell, and did doceive and. defraud your orator, and did cause your orator to
issue and deliver said patent No. 174,465 to said Bell upon
your orator's faith that the said statements were true, and
that but for the said false and fraudulent statements of the
said Bell made by him as aforesaid the said patent would not
have been issued or granted by your orator, so as to create
any exclusive monopoly of the method or process described in
the said fifth claim thereof."
It was then charged that Philipp Reis's device of "an apparatus for the transmission of speech by means of the galvanic
current" (see 126 U. S. 33-74) was well known to Bell and
the world before 1874, and that "many persons devised and
were seeking to devise apparatus and means by which such
method and process could be successfully operated, and made
to transmit articulate speech ;" and it was said that "not only
did the said Philipp iReis make and operate an apparatus upon
such alleged method or process, but divers other persons in
this county did, prior to the alleged date of said Bell's invention, to wit, prior to the year 1875, well understanding the
conditions under which alone speech and other composite
sounds could be transmitted by electricity, experiment upon
said problem, and devise, use and operate more or less perfect
means therefor."
Then, after charging that the caveat of Elisha Gray, also
set forth in DTh Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 77-86, was filed in
the Patent Office on the same day with Bell's application for
his first patent, and prior thereto, the bill charged:

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

319

Statement of the Case.

"That notwithstanding the requirements of the said statute
to preserve said caveat in secrecy, the examining officer of the
Patent Office communicated to the said Bell, very soon after
the filing of the said caveat, the fact and date of the filing
thereof, the name of the caveator, as well as the general nature
of the claim contained therein, and some information as to the
particular method employed; that the said Bell, by his attorneys, followed up this knowledge, unlawfully obtained, and induced some of the officers of the Patent Office to violate still
further the requirement of secrecy concerning said caveat, by
setting on foot an inquiry, for the benefit of the said Bell, as
to the precise time of the day when the same was filed; and
thereupon, without any proof, and contrary to law and the
custom of the office, it was determined by the Patent Office
authorities, contrary to the fact, that said caveat was ified
after said application, although on the same day, and that the
said caveator was not entitled to the notice which had already
been given, or to any of the benefits of the said section, with
respect to the application of the said Bell.
"That thereupon the examiner of the Patent Office who
had the matter in special charge, without communicating to
the said Gray the question that had been so raised as to the
time of the filing of the respective papers, nor the determination thereof, or giving him any opportunity to establish by
proof the actual time of filing his own, announced to him, by
letter, dated February 25, 1876, that the said notice had been
given under a misapprehension of the rights of the parties,
and was withdrawn, and on the same day informed the said
Bell, by letter, that the suspension of his application, had been
withdrawn.
"That after the withdrawal and revocation of the suspension of the said application of Bell, the said Bell called upon
the said examining officer at the room occupied by him in the
Patent Office, and that the said examining officer did then, on
or about the 26th or 27th day of February, 1876, exhibit to
the said Bell the drawings of the said caveat of Gray, and did
then and there fully describe to the said Bell the construction
and mode of operation of the telephone illustrated in the said

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

drawing, and the method disclosed by the said Gray in said
caveat of transmitting and receiving vocal sounds.
"That the said Bell did unlawfully obtain important information as to essential features of the invention of Gray as
disclosed by his caveat, and did proceed without delay to
make substantial amendments of his said specification and
claims, which amendments were made on the 29th day of
February, only four days after said withdrawal of notice was
communicated to said Gray; that such amendments related to
those parts of said Bell's alleged invention which he and his
assigns have since claimed as the cardinal element or feature
of his patent, to wit, the transmission of sounds by gradual or
undulatory changes in the electrical current, as distinguished
from alternate or pulsatory changes; that in the said notice
of the 19th of February, 1876, the said examiner had distinctly
advised the said Gray that the application of Bell seemed to
conflict with his caveat in respect to the method of producing
the undulations by varying the resistance of the circuit, and
the method of transmitting vocal sounds telegraphically by
causing these undulatory currents; that this same examiner,
without the knowledge of the said Gray, communicated to
Bell the fact that Gray's invention varied the resistance and
produced undulations by means of a liquid transmitter; that
upon and in consequence of this surreptitious information, and
of the unlawful communications respecting the said caveat
made to the said Bell, as herein above alleged, the said Bell
made the said amendments, more clearly defining the distinction between pulsatory and undulatory currents, and substituting the word 'gradually' for 'alternately' wherever it
occurred in one of his claims; and your orator charges that
these amendments were substantial, as well in themselves as
in their bearing upon the rights then secured by Gray under,
the statute, and were not verified by oath, and that the said
patent was issued thereon, and during the pendency of said
caveat, and with undue and unusual haste, and without proper
consideration and in violation of the rights secured by said
Gray, or of the rights and interests of the citizens of the
United States with respect to the art of telephony now sought

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

321

Statement of the Case.

to be monopolized by the defendant, the American Bell Telephone Company.
"That the examiner was of the opinion that the said application and caveat were in interference on principles employed
on harmonic or multiple telegraphy, but not in the art of
transmitting speech, and did not understand the application to
lay claim to the art of transmitting speech; nor did the language of the specification, or the drawing attached thereto,
give due, fair and intelligible notice that, notwithstanding the
entitling of the invention as an improvement in the art of
telegraphy, one portion thereof might be construed to have
reference to telephony, which had been, since that art had been
invented by Reis, the term adopted by lexicographers, and had
come into general use as a recognized term of art, denoting
a peculiar operation for transmitting speech by means of
electricity.
"Your orator is informed and believes that the said Bell
was not able to get the said devices shown in his patent, or
any of them, to transmit and deliver articulate speech up to
the time of issuing the said patent, on the 14th of February,
1876, and he did not intend to so operate them or any of
them, nor was he aware that they or any of them would do
so.
"Your orator further shows that on March 10, 1876, three
days after the said patent issued to said Bell, he obtained for
the first time articulate speech by an electric speaking telephone. This success was not obtained by any device or apparatus described in the said BelPs specification and patent, but
on March 10, 1876, was obtained with the liquid transmitter,
or water telephone, described in Gray's caveat, and a knowledge of which said Bell derived from the wrongful communication to him, as before shown, of the contents of the Gray
caveat.
"These facts showing fraud, collusion and overreaching in
the obtaining of the said Bell patent long remained artfully
concealed from your orator, and have only recently been
brought to your orator's knowledge and attention."
Then, after allegations which are not necessary to be set
VOL. cxxvm-21

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

forth at length, in order to understand the opinion of the
Oourt, including some allegations relating to the discoveries of
Antonio Meucci, Thomas A. Edison, Asahel K. Eaton and
to the Varley inventions, described in 126 U. S. 107-109; the
bill charged respecting the Dolbear invention (see 126 U. S.
131-142) that "in addition to the above stated grounds for the
invalidity of said patent No. 186,787, the said Bell procured
his last-named patent by fraud upon one Amos E. Dolbear,
professor of physics at Tufts College in Massachusetts, in the
manner, and under the circumstances following, to wit:
"The said Dolbear did discover and invent the magnetotelephone, now used, as a receiver by the American Bell
Telephone Company, being the same as that embraced in
the said patent issued to said Bell on said January 30,
1877, and made and exhibited a complete, perfect, articulate
speaking telephone, on September 20, 1876, combining all the
appliances-now used in the modern magneto-telephone used by
the defendant, the American Bell Telephone Company, professedly under the said last-named patent, and began to take
steps to secure to himself, his heirs and assigns, a patent for
the said invention fromthe government of the United States,
and to that end communicated his invention to a friend, one
Percival V. Richards, who was assisting him to procure a patent for his said invention.
"That said Richards, who was also a friend and associate of
said A. G. Bell, while proceeding to secure a patent for said
Dolbear for said invention, inadvisedly communicated the fact
of said invention of the said Dolbear to the said Bell, and also
communicated to him a description of said invention of Dol-bear; whereupon and soon after he was informed by one
Gardner G. Hubbard, who was a near connection of and associate with the said Bell, that said Bell had invented and secured a patent on said devices and inventions of said Dolbear
over two years previously, which untrue statement was communicated, at the instance of said Bell, to said Dolbear, who
believed the same, and thereafter ceased for a long time all
further efforts to secure a patent for his said invention.
"That said Bell and Hubbard, as soon as they bad gathered

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

323

Statement of the Case.

and secured the details of said Dolbear's invention, proceeded forthwith to the city of Washington, and then and
there applied for and secured said patent No. 186,787 for the
invention of said Dolbear.
"Your orator further says that at the time said Bell made
oath to his application for said invention he well knew that
his oath was not true, and that not only he was not the inventor thereof, but that he had appropriated the invention of
the said Dolbear.
"Your orator further says that said Amos E. Dolbear, soon
after making said invention embraced in said patent No.
186,787, entered into a contract and bargain with the Gold
and Stock Telegraph Company, a corporation existing under
the laws of the State of New York, controlled by the Western
Union Telegraph Company, to manufacture, use and sell his
said invention, which said corporation had exclusive control of
said invention, and made, used and sold said telephones of Dolbear for the space of nearly three years, when the said American Bell Telephone Company and the said Western Union
Telegraph Company, in litigation then pending between them
in what is known as the Dowd case, agreed to compromise
their differences and appropriate to themselves the entire
profits arising from telephony in the United States, and suppressed the fact as to the said invention of said Dolbear of
said devices, and that said Bell had appropriated and patented
the same.
"Your orator further says that said American Bell Telephone Company and said Western Union Telegraph Company,
in order further to suppress the facts and deceive the public,
caused a collusive interference case to be begun and prosecuted
in the United States Patent Office between said Bell and said
Dolbear, wherein said Dolbear was not represented except in
name, and wherein his assigns, the said Western Union Telegraph Company, the American Bell Telephone Company and
said Bell were the real parties and were all in one interest;
which said interference case was prosecuted so as to suppress
the fact that as against Bell said Dolbear was the inventor, the
attorney for said Dolbear's assignee being in fact one of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

counsel for and in the pay of said American Bell Telephone
Company; the testimony also being taken by apparently
opposing counsel for opposing interests, but in fact for the
same parties and for the same interests; and that accordingly,
in the said case, it was decided that the defendant Bell was
the discoverer and inventor of said device.
"And your orator charges that for the fraud aforesaid the
said last-named patent, No. 186,787, is invalid, and ought to
be cancelled and made void by the decree of .this honorable
court."
The bill further contained the following allegation:
"And your orator further says that prior to the grant of
said letters patent No. 186,787, and prior to the 13th day of
January, 1877, the day upon which the said Bell made oath
to the application upon which the said patent was granted,
and prior to the 15th day of January, 1877, the day on which
the said application was filed in the Patent Office, the said
Bell, as your orator is informed and believes, caused an application to be made for letters patent of Great Britain for the
same invention as that described and claimed in the said letters
patent No. 186,787; that letters patent of Great Britain, numbered 4765 and dated December 9, 1876, were issued to William
Morgan Brown, patent agent, 'for the invention of improvements in electric telephony and telephonic apparatus, a communication from abroad by Alexander Graham Bell,' .and that
the invention described and claimed in said letters patent of
Great Britain No. 4765 was the same as that described and
claimed in said United States patent No. 186,787; yet the said
Bell, as your orator is informed and believes, concealed from
the Commissioner of Patents the facts above mentioned about
the said letters patent of Great Britain, and in consequence of
this suppression of the truth, a patent was wrongfully issued
to hin for a term of seventeen years instead of being so
limited as to expire at the same time with the said letters
patent of Great Britain."
To this bill the Bell Telephone Company fied a demurrer
as follows:
"This defendant, the American Bell Telephone Company,

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

325

Statement of the Case.

by protestation, not confessing all or any of the matters and
things in the plaintiff's bill of complaint contained to be true
in such manner and form as the same are therein set forth
and alleged, doth demur to said bill, and for causes of demurrer
shows that:
"I. (1) The said bill is multifarious, in that it joins allegations and prayers for relief, in respect of patent No. 174,465,
dated March 7, 1876, and allegations and prayers for relief in
respect of patent No. 186,787, dated January 30, 1877.
"(2) The bill does not point out and specify which of the
persons, patents and publications referred to in its several
schedules anticipate each of the inventions claimed in the said
two patents respectively, nor in the several claims of each, it
appearing by said schedule that some of the patents and publications therein referred to are subsequent in date to both the
said patents granted to Bell.
"II. To so much of said bill as refers and relates to patent
No. 174,465, dated March 7, 1876, this defendant demurs for
the following causes of demurrer:
"(1) The plaintiff in and by its said bill does not show any
power or authority, and no power or authority in law exists,
in any person or party or any court, to bring said suit, nor to
entertain the same, nor to give the relief therein prayed, nor
any relief thereunder or touching the subject-matter thereof.
"(2) The plaintiff in and by said bill has not made or stated
a case which calls upon or justifies this court in the exercise of
its discretion to permit this bill to be entertained.
"(3) The plaintiff in and by its said bill has not made or
stated a case which entitles it in a court of equity to the relief
therein prayed for, or any relief whatever.
"(4) The plaintiff in and by its said bill has not made or
stated a case which entitles it in a court of equity as against
this defendant, the American Bell Telephone Company, to the
relief therein prayed for, or any relief whatever.
"(5) The case stated in and by said bill is one which, as
against this defendant, the assignee of said Bell patents, should
have been prosecuted (if at all) with the utmost diligence,
whereas, as against this defendant, it is a stale claim, contrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

to equity and good conscience, and one which, by reason of
the gross laches and delay in prosecuting it, a court of equity
ought not to entertain.
"III. To so much of said bill as refers and relates to patent
No. 186,787, darted January 30, 1877, this defendant demurs
for the following causes of demurrer:
"(1) The plaintiff in and by its said bill does not show any
power or authority, and no power or authority in law exists,
in any person or party, or any court, to bring said suit, nor to
entertain the same, nor to give the relief therein prayed, nor.
any relief thereunder or touching the subject-matter thereof.
"(2) The plaintiff in and by said .said bill has not made or
stated a case which calls upon or justifies this court, in the
exercise of its discretion, to permit this bill to be entertained.
"(3) The plaintiff in and by its said bill has not made or
stated a case which entitles it in a court of equity to the relief
therein prayed for, or any relief whatever.
"(4) The plaintiff, in and by its said bill, has not made or
stated a case which entitles it in a court of equity, as against
this defendant, the American Bell Telephone Company, to
the relief therein prayed for, or any relief whatever.
"(5) The case stated in and by said bill is one which, as
against this defendant, the assignee of said Bell patents, should
have been prosecuted (ifat all) with the utmost diligence,
whereas, as against this defendant it is a stale claim, contrary
to equity and good conscience, and one which by reason of
the gross laches and delay in prosecuting it, a court of equity
ought not to entertain.
"IV. This defendant demurs to the whole of said bill for
each of the reasons set forth in Division III.
".
(1) As to each and every charge in said bill set forth
as the basis of an attack on the validity of said patents, or
either of them, or any claim of either of them, this defendant
demurs thereto separately for the reason that it does not show
the said patent to be void, and also because the allegations
therein contained, if true, would not entitle the plaintiff to
the relief prayed for, nor to any relief in a court of equity.
"And it prays that this clause of demurrer may be taken

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

327

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

as a separate demurrer on each of said grounds to each such
allegation as if repeated in a separate form to each.
"The allegations here referred to are the following: [setting
forth the divisions in the bill demurred to.]
"1VI. This defendant specially demurs to said bill for that
it does not set forth any fraud in the procuring of said patents;
and for that it does not specifically set forth what acts, if any,
the complainant relies on as constituting fraud in procuring
said patents; and for that it does not show when, how, from
whom, or by what means the complainant first had knowledge
or notice of each alleged fact, nor why, with due diligence, it
would not have learned them earlier.
"VII. Wherefore, and for divers other good causes of demurrer appearing in said bill, the defendant cloth demur to
said bill, and to separate parts thereof where the demurrers
are hereinbefore expressed to be to parts, and humbly demands
the judgment of this court whether he shall be compelled to
make any further or other answer to the said bill, or said
separate parts where the demurrers are expressed to be to
separate parts, and prays to be hence dismissed with his costs
and charges in this behalf most wrongfully sustained."
The court below, after hearing argument, sustained the
demurrers, and dismissed the bill. 32 Fed. Rep. 591.
-Mr. Solicitor' General, as Acting Attorney General, .AM.
Allea G. Thurman and Jft. Jef. Ctandler for appellant.
.Mr. ELpa funton, -Mr. Williaz C. Strawbridge and -Mr.
Cha'les S. Iaitmam were on the briefs.
.M'r. James J. Storrow for appellee.
The answers to this bill as a whole are, first, that equity
will not interfere in such a case as this to displace ordinary litigation and to cancel a deed; and, second, that no power exists
in the executive departments to bring, or in the Circuit Court
to entertain, suits to cancel patents for invention, because (1)
it invokes the exercise of a prerogative power which the judiciary act does not give, and (2) because the course of legislation

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

on the special subject of patents has not given the power, but
has prohibited it.
Pleading.- The bill proceeds against two patents, and sets
up against each of them various distinct'and separable grounds
of invalidity. Demurrers to the whole bill for want of power,
and to the whole bill for want of equity, and also demurrers as
to each patent and to each separate ground of attack, are
authorized by the decisions of this court, and by the practice
under the English scirefaciasto cancel patents. Powder Co.
v. Powder Works, 98 U. S. 126; llindmarck on Patents,pp.
401, 414, 721.
T]'e Question of Equity.- The professed and sole purpose,
object and effect of the bill is to draw into this suit to be here
tried the questions of novelty of invention and sufficiency of
the specification, which, both by statute and by the necessary
rules of law, are triable in, and are every day tried in, infringement suits; to enjoin their trial in the statutory infringement
suits now pending, and to impose upon those suits a decision
on those questions to be here made; to sustain the patent if
found valid, and cancel it or modify it if found bad or defective. It asks, therefore, for the exercise of the most startling
powers of equity. Atlantic Dbelaine Co. v. James, 94 U. S.
207; The MJaxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 380;
Colorado Coal and Iron Co. v. UnitedStates, 123 U. S. 307, 317.
Equity does not so interfere with the established, and especially with the statutory, course of litigation, without s6me
strong exigency for such interference. It does not cancel a
deed, nor restrain suits to enforce it, simply because it is void
for reasons which would defeat it in those suits. It may interfere if the grounds of invalidity cannot be tried in those suits,
or, quia timet, if the holder of the deed will not bring suits
where the questions can be tried; or to bring peace to a
title which has been so well determined in other litigation
that equity will not allow it to be retried; but that is not the
case here. The bill does not so aver. On the contrary, it
shows, and this court knows judicially that this patent has
been often tried, invariably sustained, and is now "established." That is fatal. .Miles v. Caldwell, 2 Wall. 35, 39;

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

329

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

J3t. Zion v. Gillrnan, 9 Bissell, 479; S. C. 14 Fed. Rep. 123;
Bank v. Cooper, 20 Wall. 171. Moreover, it is presumed on
demurrer from the specific allegations of this bill, United
States v. Atherton, 102 U. S. 372, 373, and this court knows
judicially, that every attack on the patents here set up has
long ago been passed upon in suits where the patent has been
sustained. The bill does not deny this, nor does it suggest
any reason for retrying them.
[To the rule of judicial notice, and to the point that on a
demurrer the court considers those facts of which it takes
judicial notice, the counsel cited: -Louisville& Nashville Railroad v. Pabnes, 109 U. S. 244; Zing v. Gallin, 109 U. S. 99,
101; Brown v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37; Terhune v. Phillips,99
U. S. 592. As instances of judicial notice quoted in his brief :
Smith v. Ely, 15 fHow. 137; Gregg v. Tesson, 1 Black, 150;
Pensaeola Tel. Co. v. Wfestera Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1;
United States v. Union Pacife Railroad,98 U. S. 569; Sinking
Futnd Cases, 99 U. S. 700; Wade v. Walnut, 105 U. S. 1; Gilso,&v. .Dayton, 123 U. S. 59; Yew -Hampshirev. Louisiana,
108 U. S. 76.]
Bills will also lie to prevent multiplicity of suits; but only to
secure that end; and, therefore, only where one trial will determine the question forever, and prevent retrials in the suits
sought to be avoided. This bill does not state such a case.
As matter of law, every infringer can retry all the defences
here presented, though this court should find them all to be
without merit.
These propositions are established by the following authorities: 3Iiles v. Caldwell, 2 Wall. 35, 39; Stark v. Starrs, 6
Wall 402; United States v. WVilson, 118 U. S. 86; Insurance
Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616; Grand Chute v. lfinegar, 15
Wall. 373; Hendrickson v. linckley, 17 How. 443, 445;
o.apgood v. Hewitt, 119 U. S. 226; lTickliffe v. Owings, 17 How.
47, 50; Hollandv. Nhallen, 110 U. S. 15, 19; Frost v. Spitley,
121 U. S. 5529; Orton v. Smith, 18 How. 263; Craig v. Leitensdo2fer, 123 U. S. 189; Lessee of Parrishv. Ferris,2 Black,
606; V7etterlein v. Barnes, 124 U. S. 169, 172; Eerriison v.
Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, 159.

OCTOBER TERM', 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

These considerations are controlling for another reason. If
there is no exigency which would require equity to exercise
the power, the case is not within the region where its creation
by equity without pretence of statutory authority can even be
discussed.
The charge of the fraudulent substitution of a new specification made in 126 U. S. 242, 244, 471, 568, is not made here, but
is refuted; for the bill states that the original specification was
sworn to January 20, 1876, filed February 14, 1876, and is
now on file; it annexes a copy of the existing file which is like
the correct copy in The Telep1hone Cases, 126 U. S. 4. The
charges of corruption in the Patent Office, which led the Secretary of the Interior to advise a bill on the ground that they
could not be satisfactorily investigated in an infringement
suit, are not in this bill. The bill filed by leave of the Solicitor General at Menmphis in September, 1885, contained abundant and specific charges of fraud about the principal patent,
but they are struck out of this bill, though its origin is shown
by the fact that some of the allusions to them and prayers
based on them are copied verbatim. It makes profuse use of
the words "fraudulent," etc., but such general phrases, even if
in the form of allegations, will not rouse a court of equity. It
does not allege acts which constitute fraud or justify interference. Armbler v. Choteau, 107 U. S. 586; Colorado Coal Co.
v. United States, 123 U. S.307, 317; United States v. Athe'ton, 102 U. S.372.
The case, however, cannot turn upon the mere presence of
moral fraud. Equity interferes to displace ordinary litigation
on the ground of fraud only when the facts which constitute
the fraud do not afford a defence in that litigation. It does
not set aside a deed because of mistake or of dishonest practices unless it appears that the error or fraud touched the right
of the grantee, and not merely the mode in which the deed
was obtained, and that the grantee was not justly entitled on
the merits to the thing granted. Kerr on Fraud and Mistake,
479; Rooke v. Lord -Yensington, 2 K. & J. 753, 763; Fowler
v. Fowler,4 De G. & J. 250, 273 ; Sells v. Sells, 1 Drew. & Sm.
42; Souther- .Development Co. v. Silvea, 125 U. S. 247, 250,

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

331

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

259 ; Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55 ; Quimby v. Con an, 104
U. S. 420 ; Urnited States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 239 ; Xing
v. TFoojfolk, 116 U. S. 599, 602; Shzughter's Administrators
v. Gerson, 13 Wall. 379, 383; Attwood v. Small, 6 C1. & Fin.
232.
In the face of the recitals in the patent, or even without
them, the grantor cannot set up defects of procedure or any
flaw in the deed to avoid the grant. Grant v. Raymond, 6
Pet. 218, 244; Kansas City etc. .Rail'roadv. -Attorney General,
118 U. S. 682; Polk's Lessee v. Ifendall, 9 Cranch, 87, 99;
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 714, 729 ; Coloma v.
Eaves, 92 U. S. 484.
It results, therefore, that equity will not notice attacks except such as go to the inherent right of the patentee, i.e.,
want of novelty and radical insufficiency of the specification,
or other matter, if there be any, which shows that, he was
not "justly entitled to his patent under the law." :Rev. Stat.
§ 4893. A bill to cancel therefore is not and cannot be for
the purpose of trying any defences except those which would
defeat it in an infringement suit.
Scope of the Bill and _Nature and Conseguence of the Power
invoked. - The bill, in its jurisdictional clauses, Division I., defines the power invoked as a power in "the executive department" to bring before the courts for investigation and determination any patent for an invention which the Attorney
General alleges has been issued to one who is not the first inventor, or for an invention which is not both new and useful;
and this whether the unlawful issue be the result of "accident,
inadvertence, mistake or fraud." That is, it exists whenever
the patent is alleged to be affected with vices which would
defeat it in an infringement suit, no matter what led to the
error in the grant. The specific allegations of this bill are
such that it cannot be sustained unless the power be as broad
as this.
The bill avers that it is "within the power, and in a proper
case within the duty," of the executive department to do this.
Undoubtedly if the power exists it must be exercised whenever
its exercise will affect private interests. Butterworth v. foe,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

112 U. S. 50, 57. A suit must be brought, therefore, whenever there is substantial ground to question the validity of a
patent, and most patent litigation must thus be transferred to
the Attorney General's office, with the public treasury against
the patentee, and no costs allowed him when he prevails.
That Congress has not organized that office so that this
work can be done, shows that Congress did not intend that
it should be done.
The bill avers the power to be a power to bring the patent
"to a judicial investigation and determination, to the end that
in case such patent be found valid, it may be sustained by
proper judicial judgment," or "be cancelled in whole or in
part;" and "that the whole patent be treated as a contract
to be annulled, reformed or modified as in law and equity
and good conscience it ought to be;" and that the bill is
brought "in performance of this duty" and "as a means of
causing justice to be done to" the patent owner, "as well as to
all others, citizens of the United States, in whose interests and
for the restoration and protection of whose rights this suit is
instituted."
The prayers are for cancellation or modification of the
patent, and for a perpetual injunction against all infringement suits, many of which it alleges are now pending.
When either party to a contract brings it before a court for
cancellation or modification, the court grants the prayers of
the plaintiff, or sustains the contract or modifies it in favor of
the defendant, according to the right, because it lays hold of
the whole subject matter only to do, once for all, complete
justice between both sides. Lessee of Parrishv. -Terris,2
Black, 606; Piersollv. J27liott, 6 Pet. 95; Carnoekanz v. Christie, 11 W heat. 446; Bradford v. Urion Bank, 13 How. 57.
It does this even when the United States is plaintiff. The
Siren, 7 Wall. 152; The Davis, 10 Wall. 15; Tnited States v.
Union Pacifo Railroad,98 U. S. 569, 607. This bill appeals
in terms to this well-known power; and the suggestion that
its exercise here will once for all "determine" the validity of
the patent, and "do" justice between the patentee and all
other citizens on whose "interests" this bill is in terms based,

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

333

Air. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

and whom the Attorney General claims to represent asparens
patri, is what makes it appear plausible.
Yet it is certain that this power cannot be applied to this
subject matter. The patent cannot be modified except by reissue or disclaimer in the Patent Office. IZittle v. Mferriam, 2
Curtis, 4'75. It cannot be "sustained" so as to bind the very
persons on whose "interests" the suit is professedly and in
fact based, nor even the defendants in the existing infringement suits sought to be enjoined; for the statute gives to each
infringer the absolute right to try the validity of the patent.
Now, equity always refuses to displace ordinary litigation in
order to try questions triable therein unless it has before it,
so as to be bound by its decree, all those interests which, if
not so bound, could retry those questions. Orton v. Smith,
18 How. 263; BKerrisan v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, 159; Craig
v. ,eitensdorfer, 123 U. S. 189; ]7etterlein v. Barnes, 124:
U. S. 169, 172; Weale v. IFest Middlesex Water Works, 1 Jac.
& Walk. 358, 369; Adair v. Hbew River Co., 11 Yes. 429;
Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288, 303. Equity therefore
will not allow this bill to try questions open in infringement
suits,- and none others can support it.
M:oreover, the exercise of the equity power invoked is prevented by the legislation of Congress on this specific subject
matter; which means that it is inconsistent with and therefore
forbidden by the act of Congress.
The Attorney General, therefore, is driven to and does
assert an inherent and absolute power, inherited from the English monarch, to compel the court to try this case because he
brings it.
Die Question of Power.-Power adequate for this case
must be found both in the Attorney General and the Circuit
Court; for a party competent to ask is as essential as a court
able to grant. Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat.
1
738, 819.
A patent for an invention is not a conveyance of existing
property which will again become property in the grantor if
the patent be cancelled. It is a command by the sovereign to
its subjects to refrain from that which, but for that command,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

they might do; its cancellation is a recall of that command..
Its effect depends upon the obedience the subjects render; and
when they are protected in disobeying it, it is the same as if
it no longer existed. The recall, like the grant, is the exeercise
of a purely governing power which belongs to the United
States as sovereign; it is not based upon the plaintiff's right
of property, as a grant of land or a bill to cancel such a
grant is.
Who can exercise this power 9
Power is conferred upon "the government," i.e., "the
United States," by the Constitution alone. Legislation does
not create its powers ; it is the means by which the United
States exercises them. "Respecting the power of government no doubt is entertained. . . When the sovereign
authority shall choose to bring it into operation, the judicial
department must give effect to its will. .But until that will
shall be expressed, no power of condemnation can exist in the
court." -Brown v. Udted States, 8 Cranch, 110, 123. When,
under our frame of government, any court, officer, or person
wishes to do any act in the exercise of an admitted sovereign
power, which the Constitution has not in explicit and definite
terms conferred on it or him, the question is not whether
"power" exists, but whether statutory law has expressed the
intent of the sovereign that the power shall be exercised, and
has delegated him to exercise it. Te Floyd Acceptances, 7
Wall. 666, 676. If Congress had put into the patent act,
which creates and defines our rights, a provision for such a
proceeding, the courts might entertain it. But it has not. It
has, moreover, once enacted it, then repealed it, and expressly
refused to reinstate it. The effort now is to maintain the suit
as if such a provision were in the act.
It is the moral duty of a sovereign to provide some means by
which to inquire, and to relieve the subjects from the stress of
the command of a patent, if it ought not to have been issued.
Under the old English law, no subject could dispute it; and
there arose, of necessity, a proceeding by which the sovereign,
as~parenspatria, that is, in the interests of the subjects, could
formerly recall it. When, in the time of Elizabeth, the senti-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

335

31r. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

ment of the individual strength and initiative of each citizen
developed in English civilization, the subject insisted, first in
the courts, Tlt Case of -Monopolies,Darcy v. Allein, 11 Rep.
8- (1602), and as that was without practical effect, established
through parliament by the Statute of _llonopolies, 21 Jac. I.
c. 3 (1623), that each subject might protect himself in
disobedience by setting up in an infringement suit that the
patent ought not to have been granted. This latter mode of
meeting the difficulty has been found so much more efficient,
and so much more consonant to the spirit of modern civilization, that, in England, where both modes were lawful up to
the English statute of 1883, the direct proceeding has been
employed only twenty times, the first being in 1'85 and the
last in 1855. In this country, since 1836, 350,000 patents
have been granted, about 3000 have been tried, and only one
direct suit to cancel has been maintained. It is clear, therefore, that the question of the existence of this particular proceeding is the question of a choice among modes, all conducive
to the same end, and not a question between some remedy and
none; and that experience shows that the use of the remedy
is not necessary for the practical success of a patent system.
The defence remedy, without cancellation, is very adequate.
The glory of our American system is the protection it affords
through the courts against laws there is no authority to enact.
Yet all that the court does is to declare in a private suit, by a
decree which technically binds only the parties to it, that the
law is unauthorized. The statute is not cancelled. It cannot
even declare this until a suit to enforce the law is brought;
and the defence is intrusted to private hands. The same kind
of remedy cannot be deemed inadequate for the patent system,
all parts of which are based for their operation and motive
power on personal interests. The great work of making inventions, perfecting the machines and pushing them into public use rests solely on private enterprise and initiative. The
lesser work of litigation may well be trusted to the same
forces. There is no instance in which the patent system calls
upon executive action, or even permits executive control.
Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50. It would be contrary to its

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee

whole spirit to introduce it here. Moreover, the nature of a
patent right, is such that it cannot be an important factor in
the community until it has been so well tried that the courts
will sustain it by injunctions.
This is not a bill to prevent the vexatious use of a patent
which has been found bad. It is a suit to try whether it
is good or bad, or rather to retry it after it has been held
good against these same attacks, in suits which the bill
does not impugn; so that this particular case presents no
exigency.
The maintenance of this suit must depend on the will of
Congress alone. ]For, first, all the power about patents that
exists in the federal government is based on the grant made
by the Constitution to Congress, "to whom the grant of a
power means the grant of a branch of sovereignty." IHamiltdn v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73, 93. Second, it is school-boy learning that the Circuit Court has only such powers as Congress
has conferred, and that these are much less than the Constitution authorized. Third, the Constitution gave to Congress the
power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing powers" [those specially granted to Congress] " and all the powers vested by this
Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any
department or officer thereof."
Each of these powers authorizes Congress to put into the
patent system any features, and give to the courts with relation to it any specific powers which are "conducive" to its
genferal purpose'; and among all those, which in their nature
Mnrited States
are conducive, to select those which it prefers.
V. Fisher,2 Cranch, 358, 396. Indeed the essence of legislative power is the power to choose and make the law what it
will; while the executive and the judiciary "can pursue only
the' law as it is written." .Brown,v. United States, 8 Cranch,
11:0, 129, approved in Conrad v. Waples, 96 U. S. 279, 284.
The choice Of Congress, if it can be'ascertained, is therefore
conclusive.
The framers of our Constitution and our early' patent acts
found a patent- system already existing in England. The in-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

337

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

fringements of Watt's and Arkwright's patents, and a scire
facias to repeal Arkwright's second patent, tried in 1785,
drew their attention particularly to the subject of litigation.
The English system rested purely on the prerogative of the
king and on a-practice which grew up in the offices of the
Attorney General and of the great seal where he exercised that
prerogative. Until the recent act of 1883, the applicant for a
patent obtained afiat signed by the Attorney General in person, directing that the patent be engrossed and sent to one of
the offices of the great seal, called the petty bag. There the
Lord Keeper of the great seal, the Lord Chancellor, by a warrant under his sign manual, ordered the great seal to be affixed. For a recall, a summons in the form of a scire facias,
setting forth the grounds of invalidity alleged, was laid before
the Attorney General, who indorsed on it afiat upon which the
petty bag issued the process directing the patentee to bring
back his patent into the petty bag, and there show cause why
it should not be there cancelled. Thereupon he showed cause,
in the form of demurrers, pleas or answers, and issues of fact
or law were made up.
The petty bag was sometimes spoken of as the common-law
side of the chancery, which meant that it was the place where
the Lord Keeper exercised powers which the common law or
constitution of England attached to the possession of the great
seal; but it was not a judicial office. It therefore sent a copy
of the record to the king's personal court, the King's Bench
(never to the Common Pleas), asking, in the form of the old
writ of right, that the judges and jury would inquire into the
matter and advise the king. The result of a trial of the issues
was certified back to the petty bag, the form of the return
stating that judgment could neither be given nor executed in
the King's Bench. Then, after a summons, an order reciting
deliberation by the king in person in his chancery was made,
cancelling the patent. Under this proceeding, patents could
be cancelled for fraud in procurement, and also for mere invalidity or for mere technical defects unmixed with fraud.
The authorities and the forms are given in Hindmarch on
Patents,181-6; and, less fully, in Chitty on the Prerogatives
VOL. cxxvm-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

of the Crown, 1820; Foster on Scire Facias,1851; Blackstone,
book iii. c. 17.
Thus both the grant and the recall were purely prerogative
acts done by the king quasi in person, as monarch. No judicial authority ever cancelled a patent for an invention in
England.
As this power concerned only the interests of the subjects,
and as the king exercised it only as parens patrit, he was
bound de jure to allow the use of it to any subject interested.
4 Coke, Institute, 87; Eing v. Butler, 3 Levinz, 220; Queen
v. Aires, 10 Aod. 258, 351; The .Magdalem College Case, 11
Rep. 66, 74 b; legat's Case, 10 Rep. 113 b; Blackstone, book iii.
c. 17, § 3, p. 330; though this was a moral and not a legal
obligation. The invariable practice was to intrust the prosecution of the scirefaciasentirely to a private prosecutor, who
was required to give a bond, usually in £1000, and sometimes
in £2000, to pay to the patentee, if the prosecution failed, full
costs and expenses taxed as between solicitor and client. It
was thus in effect a remedy public in form, but placed in
private hands.
It was first used against patents for inventions in 1785, and
last in 1855, after which it fell into entire disuse. Johnson's
Patentee's -Manual, ed. 1879. In the interval it was only
used twenty times, and chiefly to assail patents on purely
technical grounds such as a court of equity would not listen
to. A scire facias against Neilson's hot-blast patent, brought
while the validity of the patent was before the House of Lords
in an infringement suit, was stayed by Lord Lyndhurst as
vexatious. Webster Pat. Cas. 665. After the cancellation of
Daniell's patent, the statute 5 and 6 Will. IV. c. 83 (1835),
provided that if a patent should ever be assailed on such a
ground again, the privy council might validate it. Arkwright's
second patent was cancelled in 1785 for technical defects in
the specification.
The English scirefaciascases against patents for inventions
are: The King v. Arkwright, Webster Pat. Cas. 64 (1785);
The Eing v. Else, Webster Pat. Cas. 76; S. C. 1 Brodix Am.
and Eng. Pat. Cas. 40 (1785)3 Rem v. Cutler, 1 Starkie, 354;

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

339

Mr. Storrow's Argument for AppeUee.

S. C. 1 Carpmael Pat. Cas. 351; . C. 1 Brodix, 225 (1816);
Rex v. .Metcalf, 1 Brodix, 297; S. C. 1 Carpmael Pat. Cas.
392; . C. 2 Stark. 249 (1817); The .Zing v. Wheeler, 2 B. &
Ald. 345; S. C. I Carpmael Pat. Cas. 394 (1819); The King
v. Fussell, 1 Brodix, 388; . 0. 1 Garpmael Pat. Gas. 449;
Rexl v. Hadden, 1 Brodix, 386 (1826); The King v. Daniell,
1 arpmael Pat. Cas. 453; S. C. 1 Brodix, 392 (1827); The
Queen v. .Aeilson, Webster Pat. Cas. 665 (1842); The Queen
v. irewall, Webster Pat. Cas. 671, n.; The Queen v. _TVickels,
3 Brodix, 390; The Queen v. Walton, 3 Brodix, 436; S. C.
1 Webster Pat. Cas. 626, n. (1842); Smith v. Upton, 6 Scott,
N. R. 804; _lbuntz v. Foster,1 Dowling & Lowndes, 942 (1843);
Bynner v. Thte Queen, 9 Q. B. 523 (1846); Regina v. Cutler,
3 Carr. & IK. 215 (1847); The Queen v. Prossepr, 11 Beavan;
itill, 10 C. B. 379 (1850); The Queen
306 (1848); Regina v.
v. Betts, 15 Q. B. 540 (1850); The Queen v. Hancock, 5 De G.
M. & G. 331 (1855).
Dealing with the subject in the light this system afforded,
our Constitution gave no power to the executive, but gave all
to Congress; and the power it gave to Congress was the
power to create by legislation a system according to its own
judgment. Such a statutory system would contain those features Congress thought fit to place there ; and what Congress
did not put there, no other authority could add. For other'
wise the system would not express the will and choice of Congress. The essence of our patent system is that what is not
authorized by the act is ultra, vir-es. 3ahkn v. Hlarwood, 112
U. S. 354, 358. For, unlike England, here "it is founded
exclusively on statutory provisions." Shaw v. Cooper, 7 Pet.
292, 318 ; James v. Carapbell, 104 U. S. 356. What is not in
those provisions, by express words or necessary implication, is.
not in the system.
How the Will of Congress is to be aseertained. - The power
of Congress oft this subject is plenary, paramount and exclusive, and has been exercised by elaborate legislation, frequently
revised. The established rule in such cases is that what the
legislature wishes, it writes into the statute. Its legislation is
not read as a grant of power additional to what might exist

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

in the absence of legislation, but as a definition or a delimiting act. What is granted, is allowed, what is not granted, is
forbidden; and a power given by a statute, afterwards repealed, is expressly prohibited. z _parte .McCarde,7 Wall.
506, and cases cited.
Congress created the first system by the act of 1790, elaborated in its details by the act of 1793. That system remained
until it was replaced by the radically different plan of 1836,
which, varied in its details by sundry revising acts, is in
substance the system of to-day.
The acts of 1790, 1793, contemplated that sometimes a
patent would be granted which ought not to be. It met that
evil by the fundamental remedy of allowing every person to
protect himself by showing that fact. But should patents
thus judicially ascertained to be bad be allowed to stand, in
the belief that no serious evil would come from the mere
existence of a condemned patent, or should they be cancelled;
and should aggressive proceeding be allowed against patents
which the owner would not expose to trial in infringement
suits? That is, should cancellation remedies be added to the
defence remedy, and if so, to what extent and in what mode.?
The legislation recognized the existence of all these exigencies,
and made precise provision for each, to such extent as it
thought wise.
, If the defendant in the infringement suit proved both invalidity and also an actual fraudulent intent, each found by the
jury; the court was to cancel the patent; but if only absolute
invalidity without actual fraud in the procurement were
proved, the patent was not to be cancelled. Act 1793, § 6. By
§ 10 the sovereign remedy to cancel a scire facias might be
allowed to a private prosecutor, provided he showed fraud as
well as invalidity, and provided he applied within three years
from the date of the patent; but the discretion to allow the
process, which in England was in the Attorney General, was
by our act vested in the District Court, to be exercised only
after hearing both parties on a rule to show cause. Ex _parte
Wood, 9 Wheat. 603, 606; Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218,
244. In Wood's Case, replying to the argument ab ineonvenw-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

34:1

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

enti, from the narrowness of the statute, this court remarked,
"If such a repeal be not had, the public have a perfect security; they may violate the patent with impunity, and if sued"
may plead invalidity.
Thus Congress covered all the cases and the features of the
English system, making the cancellation remedy, however,
narrower in each case, and intrusting the allowance of it to
the District Court instead of to the Attorney General. That
excludes all implication of any other use of it. MIoreover, the
whole statute about the aggressive proceeding would be nullified if, when a private promoter had been refused by the District Court, either in the exercise of its discretion or because
the base was excluded by the statute, the Attorney General
had, as in England, an inherent power to grant it in every
case. All the power of cancellation which could be exercised,
therefore, was such as that legislation expressly gave. In
1836, Congress repealed even this provision, and limited the
power to cancel to the case where two patents had been
granted to two persons for the same invention. This has continued to be the condition of the statutes. Acts 1836, § 16;
1870, § 58; Rev. Stat. § 4918. The Commissioners of Patents
by their reports, Congress by its committees and its votes, and
the courts where the question has arisen, have declared that
there could be no other cancellation under existing legislation.
Powees by rwn2lication.- What is implied by a statute is
as much a part of it as if called by name. Ex Parte -Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651. But the rule of implication is a rule
for ascertaining the particular intent of the grantor touching
the precise matter in question. The right may be implied,
but cannot be sufplied. The court may "effectuate the intention of the parties to the extent to which they may have imperfectly expressed themselves;" but it cannot add such
provisions "as the court may deem fitting for completing the
intention of the parties, but which they either -purposely or
unintentionally have omitted. It would be inadmissible to deduce an implication of a promise, not from the contract itself,
but from the extraneous fact that such a promise ought to
have been exacted." MAfaryland v. Railroad Co., 22 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Afr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

105. However clear the court may be as to what abstract
justice requires, it "would transgress the limits of judicial
power by an attempt to supply by construction the supposed
omission of the legislature." Evans v. Jordan,9 Oranch, 199,
203; Bees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, 122; United States v.
Union Paciflc Railroad, 91 U. S. 72, 85. If a right be
created which will be purely illusory unless some remedy be
provided, and the statute specifies none, the courts presume
that the legislature intended that the well-known processes
which are adequate to the case should be used. But no such
implication arises because the remedies given are not as com.plete as the court thinks wise, or because, though they maintain the right or the system of efficiency as a whole, a :case
occasionally arises which they do not meet.
That equity, however, cannot, on this subject matter, exercise its usual powers, and that the circumstances of this case
do not call for the interference asked, is fatal to any request
to find the power by implication or to exercise it.
As to the public land, the executive department has authority to use the ordinary remedies based on a property interest
in the United States, and that authority arises from such a
necessary implication from positive legislation. From the
earliest time it has been held that Congress, by requiring the
various departments to transact business which involved the
care and the custody of property, impliedly authorized them
to make such contracts as were usually employed in such business, and without which it could not be practically carried on,
and to bring such suits as the ordinary course of that business
might need; for that is incident to the principal power.
Dugan v. Uniited States, 3 Wheat. 172; The F7oyd Acecetances, 7 Wall. 666, 675. Congress has ratified that rule, by
continuing to require the performance of that work, and giving no other means. The same rule applies to the case of the
public lands; because the course of legislation has given to the
executive departments, not simply the power to grant patents,
but "the general care of those lands." United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 396. That necessarily gave to the department authority to bring all those suits based on the rights

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

343

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

of the United States as property owner which were needed to
prevent the timber or the title to the lands themselves from
being stolen, or to retake them if they had been. All the
suits to cancel patents for lands have been maintained solely
on this property basis, and this court has decided that they
cannot be maintained on any other.
In The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666, 680, the court said
of these implied powers in the departments, "The authority
to issue bills of exchange not being one expressly given by
statute, can only arise as an incident to the exercise of some
other power." If Congress had given to the executive the
general care of patents for inventions, the power to bring
suits respecting them might possibly have passed as an incident; but it has given no power whatever to the executive on
that subject. On the contrary, in the very strong 'case of
Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, this court decided that
the patent system was purely a congressional system, absolutely free from executive control, and that no power existed
in the executive branch respecting it unless expressly and in
terms given. Moreover, in the case of the public lands a
patent granted in due form is absolutely binding, and will
sustain ejectment against the United States; a bill to cancel is
absolutely necessary, because if it will not lie, there is no relief
of any kind. But that necessity does not arise in the case
of patents for inventions, since every one is licensed to disobey
them if he can show that they ought not to have been granted.
Thte Judiciary Act does not authorize the Circuit Court to
entertain this Suit.- There is no statute which can confer
this power unless it be the judiciary act. The Lord Chancellor had two distinct classes of powers: his powers as an
equity judge, and the powers which, though he exercised
them through judicial forms, were based upon the parens
patrCe or prerogative power of the king whom he represents.
The King's Bench, and the exchequer, also, had the latter class
to some extent. * It has been settled for two generations that
the broadest general grant of law and equity powers, such as
is contained in the judiciary act, confers only the strictly judicial powers, and does not confer any of the prerogative or gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

erning powers. The courts cannot exercise them unless they
are given in terms. This was decided under various state
statutes, and under the judiciary act of 1789. The controlling
words of that act - "s u its of a civil nature at common law or
in equity" - were, after those decisions, repeated in the acts
of 1875 and 1887. Whenever an appeal is made to the courts,
even by the Attorney General, to exercise these powers, "the
constantly recurring answer is," that though the legislature
might have called these powers into operation, "it has not
done so." United States v. Union Pacific Railroad, supra.
The following cases expressed this rule, and turned directly
upon it. Attorney General v. Utica Insurance Co., 2 Johns.
Ch. 371 ; People v. Ingersoll, Tweed and Garvey, 58 N. Y. 1;
Wheeler v. Smith, 9 How. 55 ; PFontain v. 1?avenel, 17 How.
369; Russell v. Allen, 107 U. S. 163, 1'70; Pennsylvania v.
Wheeling Bridge, 13 How. 518; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins.
Co., 127 U. S. 265 ; United States v. Union Pacifc Railroad,
98 U. S. 569.
It has already been pointed out that this proceeding is based
on the governing power of the United States, and not on its
right as the owner of property. The distinction between
these two classes of rights and the importance of it have often
been declared. VFernon's Case, 1 Vernon, 277, 370; Cotton v.
United States, 11 How. 229; United States v. Rughes, 11 How.
552, 568; United States v. Union PaciAfc Railroad,98 U. S.
569; Packet Co. v. JYeokuk, 95 U. S, 80, 85 ; IBuse v. Glover, 119
U. S. 543, 550; Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling Bridge, 13 How.
518, 560; United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30, 36.
This court has applied this rule to the cancellation of land
patents. In England the king could protect the crown lands
either by suits based on property rights, "like any private
gentleman," Vernon's Case, 1 Vernon, 277, 370 ; or by prerogative remedies, such as scirefacias,information, etc. Chitty on
the Prerogatives of the Crown, 332; Lord Proprietor v.
Jennings, 1 Harris & McHenry, 92. In Cotton v. United
States, 11 How. 229, this court decided that the United States
might employ the property remedy with regard to its lands.
In United States v. Hughes, 11 How. 552, 568, after argument

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

345

Mr. Storrow's Argument for Appellee.

on a demurrer which turned on this precise point, it decided
that the Attorney General could not employ the sovereign
suit (an information) to cancel a patent for land, but could
only use the ordinary bill in equity based on a property interest, like a private person. Every bill to cancel a land
patent has relied on that decision, and has been carefully and
specifically based on a property interest in the United States,
or in a grantee whose interests it was under a binding obligation to protect. The rule of these cases which absolutely
covers the case at bar is stated in Russell v. Allen, 107 U. S.
163, 170. "The question was whether the authority of a
court of chancery, under such circumstances, belonged to its
ordinary jurisdiction over trusts, or to its prerogativepower
under the sign manual of the crown, which last has never been
introduced into this country."
There are many instances where powers habitually exercised
by the king, or the prerogative courts in England, have been
denied to the courts or the executive here, on the ground that
statutory authority is required. The cyprus power: Wheeler
v. Srith, 9 How. 55, 78; ]Fontair v. Ravenel, 17 How. 369;
2ussell v. Allen, 107 U. S. 163, 170. The boundary cases
were denied by the Chief Justice on the ground that they
called for the exercise of governing powers; they were sustained by the majority, because they found a special authority
to exercise them; e.g., Rhode Island v. 3lassachusetts, 12
Pet. 657, 721, 752; 4 How. 637. Certiorari: Ex parte Tallandighan, 1 Wall. 243, 249. Mandamus: Bees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107; Ileine v. Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall.
655; Thompson v. Allen County, 115 U. S. 550. Appellate
powers of the Supreme Court: Ex parte Gordon, 1 Black,
503 ; Exparte l-allandigham,1 Wall. 243, 249 ; E parte JXcCardle,7 Wall. 506. Confiscation and condemnation of enemy's
property on land: Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch, 110.
Power to waive the sovereign exemption from suit: United
States v. .Mc-Lemore, 4 How. 286; The Davis, 10 Wall. 15;
Case v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199; Carrv. lTited States, 98 U. S.
433; Ufnited States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 205. Nuisance:
Pennsylvania v. WTheeling, Bridge, 13 How. 518, 564 ; Wil-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Mr. Dickerson's Argument for Appellee.

lamette Bridge Co. v. H1atch, 125 U. S. 1, 15. Libel on the
President and Congress: United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch,
32. Priority over other creditors: United States v. Fisher, 2
Cranch, 358; United States v. Bryan, 9 Oranch, 374; United
States v. Blowland, 4 Wheat. 108. Power of one House of
Congress to punish for contempt: Eilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168.
Xr. Edward I. Dickerson for appellee.
The question is not whether there is power in the "government," but whether there is power in the Attorney General to
bring, and in the Circuit Court to entertain, this suit; not
whether "the United States" possesses the power, but whether
the United States, by its only mouth-piece on the subject of
patents, its Congress, has shown its wish to exercise it. The
Attorney General asserts that the executive has the absolute
power to bring this suit, and also to compel the court to entertain it. Upon the correctness of that assertion this case must
stand or fall.
There was and is an English system, based on the prerogative of the king, not as an executive, but as king. There is an
American system, created by statute. The Attorney General
proposes a third system. It is not based on a royal power, as
in England, for our executive is not a monarch. It is not
based on statutes, like the American system, for no statute
even suggests it. It is based on what I will call the "e x ecutive _prerogative," found in neither of those two systems. Its
essential features, as the Attorney General would have them,
are also foreign to both. For this bill could not be maintained
under either.
The Constitution abolished the prerogative basis and made
patents for inventions to be based on a delegated authority delegated by "the people" to Congress, and exercised by Congress, by authorizing various persons and tribunals to do the
precise work it intrusts to them. Congress, by statute, authorized the use of a cancellation process like the seirefacias,but
under strict limitations, and intrusted the allowance of it to

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

347

Mr. Dickerson's Argument for Appellee.

court and not to the Attorney General, who had the sole power
to allow it in England. This permitted no other use of it.
In fact, a use here of the power of the English Attorney General would completely nullify that statute.
If any prerogative existed in the Attorney General by inheritance, it must have come to him as it existed in England.
Yet, on the one hand, the statute did not permit that power
here. The Attorney General, on the other band, has to dissect
out of it an integral part, in order not to defeat this proceeding, which could not have been brought and prosecuted as it
has been, if the English practice had been followed. For in
England the public treasury is not allowed to be used against
a patentee; the private promoter is also obliged to indemnify
the patentee, not only in taxed costs, but for his full expenses
if the prosecution fails; and a scirefacias against a patent,
the validity of which has been sustained by the House of
Lords, is dismissed as vexatious. So the Attorney General admits that if the English practice were followed here, he would
be out of court. His bill could not be sustained under the
American system of 1793, because that requires proof, not
only of invalidity, but also of actual fraud. The American
system of 1836 refuses the power altogether. His system
therefore is new- without precedent anywhere in the world.
In 1836 Congress established a new and different patent
system. The two essential and novel features of it were, the examination in the Patent Office, a feature never used
anywhere in the world before, which weeds out more than
one-third of the applications and prevents many more; and the
abolition of all proceedings to cancel, except in the one case
of interfering patents, Rev. Stat. § 4918. The Attorney
General now wants to add a power more vast than has ever
been used in England. But Congress has expressed its views.
Many times since 1836, its Commissioners of Patents (Reports
for 1856, 1885) and its committees have reported that the
power could not be used without specific legislative authority.
Everybody has agreed in that view. In 1846, 1848, 1850,
1852, 1854, 1856, 1878, 1882, 1884, (notably in 1850, when
Day, wishing a suit to cancel the Goodyear patent, laid before

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Mr. Dickerson's Argument for Appellee.

Congress, and the Senate committee, and the Senate in debate,
adopted the opinions of his counsel, Messrs. George Gifford,
B. Rand and W. Phillips, that the power did not exist, and
therefore he had to ask Congress for legislation,) bills were
introduced to authorize proceedings for cancellation, and were
all rejected by Congress. The Attorney General now wants to
enforce the law which Congress refused to make.
The court has no power to entertain this suit. The judiciary act does not authorize it to exert any prerogative powers
not expressly given. This court has also decided that the
English prerogative power of the Attorney General cannot be
used to repeal any patents, but that land patents can be cancelled only in suits based upon a property interest, and such as
a private person could maintain.
The courts have rejected the power as vigorously as Congress has.
Shepley and ]Knowles, JJ., denied it in 1876 by a very
elaborate decision in Attorney General v. Rumford WVorks,
2 Ban. & Ard. Pat. Cas. 298, the first attempt ever made to
exercise such a power.
Blodgett, J., decided in United States v. Frazer, 22 Fed.
Rep. 106 (1883), that, if it existed at all, it could not be used
for grounds of invalidity which could be set up in an infringement suit.
Wallace, J., in United States v. Gunning, 21 Blatchford, 516,
18 Fed. :Rep. 511 (1883), after an argument which did not
present the real questions, decided that the bill would lie in a
case of fraud. In 1885, in United States v. Colgate, 22 Blatchford, 412, he decided on demurrer that it would not lie to try
defences which had been passed upon in an infringement suit.
Such a bill would have no equity to support it.
MJcKennan, J., in 1883, stayed a bill against the fRoberts
Torpedo patent, on the ground that it was vexatious to bring
it while the patent was before the Supreme Court in an infringement suit.
In England, in the matter of the Neilson Hot-blast Patent,
Lord Lyndhurst stayed proceedings in the scirefacias suit, on
the ground that it was vexatious to bring it while the validity.

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

349

Opinion of the Court.

of the patent was before the House of Lords in an infringement case. Webster's Pat. Cas. 665. In the Queen v. Prosser,
11 Beavan, 306, Lord Langdale agreed that the court had such
authority in the scirefaciasproceedings.
The general rule that equity will not interfere against a
right which has been sustained whenever tried, at least unless
the bill alleges some special reason for such interference, is
established by Miles v. Caldwell, 2 Wall. 34, 39; Hawes v.
Oakland, 104 U. S. 450; Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537;
Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13; Dimpfell v. Ohio c
Mississippi Railroad,110 U. S. 209; Town of t.2.Zion v.
Gillmart, 9 Bissell, 479; S. C. 14 Fed. Rep. 123.
In JTowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 434, and Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, and Bourne v. Goodyear,9 Wall. 811, the question of power was not raised by the facts, nor argued by counsel, nor decided by the court. But the court, particularly in
Nowry v. *Jhitney, did declare that no direct suit could be
maintained to try any question unless its decision thereon
would be binding on the world.
This patent was granted by the Patent Office, a tribunal
which is beyond executive control. Butterworth v. Hoe, 112
U. S. 50. It has been sustained in all the circuits, and by this
court. The Attorney General, as Attorney General, cannot
even read it or understand it; for this and most other patents
require technical knowledge which his office is not furnished
with. Yet he asserts that if he is not satisfied with those
decisions, he may, not by alleging reasons for dissatisfaction,
but simply by his power, sic volo, sic jubeo, compel a retrial of
the Reis defence and all the other defences that have been
passed upon. For that purpose this bill is brought, and the
fact that it has been sustained, which is its glory, is here
treated as if it were its shame.
Xr. Ciauncey Smith was with XAb. Sto'row and Mr. Dickerson on their brief.
M . JusTicE MzL ER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.

OCTOBER TERMT,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

The United States brought its suit in equity in that court
against the American Bell Telephone Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Massachusetts, and
against Alexander Graham Bell, a resident of the District of
Columbia. The action purports to have been instituted by
George M,. Stearns, the United States District Attorney for
that district, by the direction of George A. Jenks, the Solicitor
General of the United States, acting as its Attorney General
in this matter, because the latter officer was under a disability
to prosecute this suit.
The object of the bill .was to impeach two patents for inventions issued to said Bell, the first dated March 7, 1876, and
numbered 174,465, and the second dated January 30, 1877,
and numbered 186,787, with a prayer that they be declared
void and of no effect, and that they be in all things recalled,
repealed and decreed absolutely null; that they be erased and
obliterated from the records of the Patent Office; and for
other relief.
To this bill the telephone company entered an 'appearance
and filed a demurrer. It is not shown that Bell either appeared or filed any pleading. At the hearing on the demurrer
it was sustained by the Circuit Court, the bill dismissed, and
the United States has brought the present appeal to reverse
that ruling.
The defendant demurs generaly to the whole bill, and in
that demurrer objects to specific portions of the bill, and it
may be very doubtful whether these are not so mixed up
in the same pleading as to make the demurrer void, so far as it
relates to such parts of it. As the main questions on the
demurrer, however, relate to matters which go to the merits of
the whole bill, they are probably all that is necessary to consider here. Some of these points of demurrer, although stated
as such in a general demurrer, are manifestly only such as
could be taken under a special demurrer, and would not, if
successful, defeat the entire bill.
The grounds of demurrer which we shall consider in this
opinion are as follows:
First. "That the said bill is multifarious, in that it joins

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

3351

Opinion of the Court.
allegations and prayers for relief in respect of patent No.
174,465, dated March 7, 1876, and allegations and prayers for
relief in respect of patent No. 186,787, dated January 30,
1877."
Second. The defendant demurs as to each patent specifically, "that the complainant, in and by its said bill, does not
show any power or authority, and no power or authority in
law exists, in any person or party, or any court, to bring said
suit, nor to entertain the same, nor to give the relief therein
prayed, nor any relief thereunder or touching the subject matter thereof;" and further, "that the plaintiff, in and by said
bill, has not made or stated a case which calls upon or justifies
this court, in the exercise of its discretion, to permit this bill to
be entertained."
Third. The defendant specially demurs to the bill, "for
that it does not set forth any fraud in the procuring of said
patents; and for that it does not specifically set forth what
acts, if any, the complainant relies on as constituting fraud in
procuring said patents; and for that- it does not show when,
how, from whom, or by what means the complainant first had
knowledge or notice of each alleged fact, nor why, with due
diligence, it would not have learned them earlier;" and, also,
"because the allegations contained in said bill, if true, would
not entitle the complainant to the relief prayed for, nor to any
relief in a court of equity."
While these grounds of demurrer are stated in the language
of the demurrer itself, we have grouped them somewhat differently from the mode in which they are there stated, because
we think the consideration of the three causes of demurrer
here laid down must dispose of the case before us.
With regard to the question of multifariousness, we do not
think it needs much consideration. It is very true that the
bill assails two patents, issued nearly a year apart, but they
were issued to the same party, Alexander Graham Bell, and
relate to the same subject, that of communicating messages at
a distance by speech, and by the same general mode, the later
patent being supposed to be for an improvement upon the invention of the earlier one. Both are held by the same defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ant, the American Bell Telephone Company, and are used by
it in the same operations.
The principle of multifariousness is one very largely of convenience, and is more often applied where two parties are
attempted to be brought together by a bill in chancery who
have no common interest in the litigation, whereby one party
is compelled to join in the expense and trouble of a suit in
which he and his codefendant have no common interest, or in
which one party is joined as complainant with another party
with whom in like manner he either has no interest at all, or
no such interest as requires the defendant to litigate it in the
same action. Oliver v. Piatt,3 How. 333; Yalkra v. Powers,
104 U. S. 245.
In the present case there is no such difficulty. The Bell
Telephone Company and Mr. Bell himself are the only parties
defendant, and their interest in sustaining the patents is the
same. So also there is no such diversity of the subject matter
embraced in the assault on the .two patents that they cannot
be conveniently considered together, and although it may be
possible that one patent may be sustained and the other may
not, yet it is competent for the court to make a decree in conformity with such finding. It seems to us in every way appropriate that the question of the validity of the two patents
should be considered together.
It will be convenient, as a means of showing specifically the
ground of complaint in the bill, to take up next the third
group of the causes of demurrer. The point intended to be
presented there is, that the bill does not set forth any fraud
in the procuring of the patents, and does not specifically set
forth what acts, if any, the complainant relies upon as constituting fraud in their procurement, and also that the allegations contained in the bill, if true, would not entitle the complainant to the relief prayedfor, nor to any relief in a court of
equity. Assuming for the present that the Circuit Courts of
the United States have the same jurisdiction in equity, in a
case where the United States itself is plaintiff that they have
where a citizen is plaintiff, to relieve against accident, mistake,
fraud, covin and deceit, we proceed to examine into the sufficiency of the allegations in this bill to maintain such a suit.

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

353

Opinion of the Court.

The fifth claim of invention of the patent of March 7, 1876,
which was held to be a sufficient claim for an invention in the
recent Telephone C~a-es, decided March 19, 1888, and reported
in 126 U. S., is as follows:
"5. The method of, and apparatus for, transmitting vocal
or other sounds telegraphically, as herein described, b causing
electrical undulations, similar in form to the vibrations of the
air accompanying the said vocal or other sounds, substantially
-as set forth."
The claims of invention finder the patent of January 30,
1877, are eight in number, and may be stated generally to be
for improvements in the instruments by which the vocal
sounds mentioned in the foregoing paragraph are conveyed
and received. The bill alleges that Bell, the patentee, knew
at the time of filing his application for the patent of March 7,
1876, that he was not the original and first inventor, as the
law required he should be, of all the improvements in telegraphy described and claimed in said specification; "that certain of the so-called improvements had been previously known
to and used by others, as is hereinafter more fully and at large
set forth; that the said Bell, on the 20th day of January,
1876, and at the time of filing the said application, did not
verily believe himself to be the original and first inventor of
all the so-called improvements in telegraphy described and
claimed in the said specification; and that, on the said 20th
day of January, 1876, and at the time of filing the said application, the said Bell did know and did believe that certain of
the so-called improvements in telegraphy described and claimed
in the specification aforesaid had been previously known to
and used by others, as is hereinafter more fully set forth."
It is then charged that the said untrue statements made by
said Bell constituted deception and fraud upon the government, and (lid deceive and defraud complainant, and did cause
complainant to issue and deliver said patent, No. 174,465, to
said Bell, and that but for said fraudulent statements of said
Bell, said patents would not have been issued.
The bill alleges, also, that in his application for the patent,
Bell misled the Patent Office by a statement that his invention
VOL. cyXvm-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

was for "an improvement in telegraphy," and especially for a
patent for a method of "multiple telegraphy," and that he
carefully and intentionally refrained from any expression which
would lead to the idea that his invention was to be used as a
telephone, or was capable of such use.
The bill then proceeds to describe various discoveries in the
art of conveying articulate sounds by telegraphic wires prior
to that of -Bell, with which it is alleged Bell himself was well
acquainted, and which anticipated his discovery, and render
his patent void. Among them are those of Philipp Reis of
Germany, Elisha Gray of Chicago, and certain fraudulent
practices with regard to Gray's claim are charged upon Bell.
It is also claimed that Bell was anticipated in the discovery of
an electrical speaking telephone by Philipp Reis, Cromwell
Fleetwood Varley, Antonio Meucci, Elisha Gray, Thomas A.
Edison, Asahel K. Eaton, and many others.
The bill further charges "that said Bell, well knowing that
he was not the inventor of the art of transmitting speech by
an electric speaking telephone, and also that the patent of
March 7, 1876, neither in the drawings, specifications, nor
claims of said patent, described any apparatus or device by
which articulate speech could be transmitted through the instrumentality of electricity, as perfectly or as well as articulate
speech had been transmitted prior to the alleged said invention, through the instrumentality of electricity, by the use of
well-known pre-existing methods and apparatus, sought to
fortify himself in his wrongful claim, and more completely
to secure to himself the monopoly since alleged by him to be
described in said patent, and to further impose upon your
orator and the Patent Office, and to that end, on or about
January 15, 1877, made another application for a patent to,be
issued to him, upon which application a patent was issued,
No. 186,787, dated January 30, 1877, which said patent purports to be granted to him for a new and useful improvement
in electric telegraphy.",
It is then charged "that at the time said Bell applied for
said last-mentioned patent, he well knew that every material
part, portion and device and apparatus set forth and described

-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

355

Opinion of the Court.

in his said patent and specification, were not his invention,
but that the several elements, considered either separately or
combined, had been taken bodily by him from well-known and
existing apparatus, devices and plans invented and contrived
by others for the purpose of transmitting articulate speech by
means of electricity."
The charge is also made "that he so framed the several
claims in said patent, No. 186,787, as on the face thereof to
give him and his associates the practical monopoly of wellknown and essential devices used and combined in all instruments for the transmission of articulate speech by electricity."
It is also asserted that "said Bell procured his last-named
patent by fraud upon one Amos E. Dolbear, Professor of
Physics at Tufts College, in Massachusetts," in a manner and
under circumstances which are minutely described in the bill.
It seems to us that if Bell was aware, at the time that he
filed his specifications, asserted his claims, and procured his
patents, that the same matter had been previously discovered
and put into operation by other persons, he was guilty of such
a fraud upon the public that the monopoly which these patents
g ant to him ought to be revoked and annulled. We will
consider hereafter the power and duty of the court in such a
case; at present we are concerned with the sufficiency of the
allegations; that is to say, whether the allegation of this
fraud is made with such minuteness and sufficiency of detail
as to require an answer on the part of the defendants.
The fraud alleged is precisely the fraud which would be
committed in a case of that kind. It is a fraud of obtaining
a patent for an invention of which the party knew he was not
the original inventor. This priority of invention is an essential element; it is 'absolutely necessary to the right to have
such a patent, and can in no case be dispensed with. It may
be possible that a patent would not be absolutely void where
the patentee was not really the first inventor, and the act of
Congress made provision that any man sued'for an infringement of such patent might prove that the patentee was not
the original discoverer or inventor. But we do not decide
here whether a patent is absolutely void because the patentee

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

is not the first inventor, nor whether a court of equity should
set aside a patent where the party had obtained it without
fraud or deceit, believing himself to be the first inventor. It
is sufficient for the present case, in which, on demurrer, we
wish to decide nothing more than is necessary to determine
whether the defendants should be called to answer the bill, to
say that the charge here is that he knew he was not the first
inventor, and that his efforts to procure the patent were fraudulent because he was aware that he was obtaining a patent
to which he was not in law or equity entitled.
Nor is the objection to the bill, that it does not allege the
facts which constitute the fraud, well taken. The guilty
knowledge is well and fully stated, the prior inventions and
discoveries and their authors are alleged to have been known
to Bell, and are mentioned with sufficient precision, and his
connection with some of them, especially in the case of Dr.
Gray and others, is set forth with minute particularity. It is
a mistake to suppose that'in stating the facts which constitute
a fraud, where relief is sought in a bill in equity, all the evidence which may be adduced to prove that fraud must be
recited in the bill. It is sufficient if the main facts or incidents which constitute the fraud against which relief is desired
shall be fairly stated, so as to put the defendant upon his guard
and apprise him of what answer may be required of him.
Story's Equity Pleadings, § 252.
In all these particulars we think the bill is sufficiently explicit. There can be no question that if the bill, as is the
general rule on demurrers, is to be taken as true, there is
enough in it to establish the fraud in the procurement of the
patent, and to justify its cancellation or rescission, if the court
has jurisdiction to do so. Hlardingv. Handy, 11 Wheat. 103;
St. louis v. -napp Co., 104 1U. S. 658.
But the second group of causes of demurrer is perhaps the
most important, and the one on which counsel seem to have
principally relied, the essence of which is, that "no power or
authority in law exists, in any pbrson or party, or any court,
to bring said suit, nor to entertain the same, nor to give the
relief therein prayed, nor any relief thereunder or touching the

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

357

Opinion of the Court.

subject-matter thereof," and "that the complainant has not
made or stated a case which calls upon or justifies this court
in the exercise of its discretion to permit this bill to be
entertained."
It will be observed that this broad assertion admits that a
party may practise an intentional fraud upon the officers of
the government, who are authorized and whose duty it is to
decide upon his right to a patent, and that he may by means
of that fraud perpetrate a grievous wrong upon the general
public, upon the United States, and upon its representatives.
It admits that by prostituting the forms of law to his service
he may obtain an instrument bearing the authority of the
government of the United States, entitling him to a monopoly
in the use of an invention which he never originated, of a
discovery which was made by others, and which, however
generally useful or even necessary it may become, is under his
absolute and exclusive control, either as to that use or as to
the price he may charge for it during the life of the grant.
It assumes that the government, which has thus been imposed
upon and deceived, is utterly helpless, and that it can take no
steps to correct the evil or to redress the fraud. If such a
fraud were practised upon an individual, he would have a
remedy in any court having jurisdiction to correct frauds and
mistakes and to relieve against accident; but it is said that
the government of the United States -the representative of
sixty millions of people, acting for them, on their behalf, and
under their authority- can have no remedy against a fraud
which affects them all, and whose influence may be unlimited.
Though, by the Constitution of the United States, it is
declared that "the judicial power shall extend to all cases, in
law and equity, ari'ing under this Constitution, the laws of
the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority," and "to controversies to which the
United States shall be a party," the argument asserts that the
practice of a gross fraud upon the Unitdd States, concerning
matters of immense pecuniary value, and affecting a very large
part of its population, is not a proper question of judicial cognizance. It would be a strange anomaly in a government

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

organized upon a system which rigidly separates the powers
to be exercised by its executive, its legislative and its judicial
branches, and which in this emphatic language defines the
jurisdiction of the judicial department, to hold that in that
department there should be no remedy for such a wrong.
As we shall presently see, this court has repeatedly held,
after very full argument, and after a due consideration of the
proposition here stated, that in regard to patents issued by the
government for lands conveyed to individuals or to corporations, the Circuit Courts of the United States do have jurisdiction to set aside and cancel them for frauds committed by the
parties to whom they were issued. This class of cases will be
considered further on. It is sufficient to say here that they
establish the right of the United States to bring suits in its
own courts to be relieved against fraud committed in cases of
that class exactly similar to that charged in the present case.
And it is also to be observed that in those cases there is no
express act of Congress authorizing such procedure, a ground
of objection which is here urged.
Recurring to the Constitution itself as the great source of
all power in the United States, whether executive, legislative
or judicial, there is a striking similarity in the language of
that instrument conferring the power upon the government
under which patents are issued for inventions, and patents are
issued for lands. It is declared in Article 1, See. 8, par. 8, that
"the Congress shall have power

.

.

.

to promote the

progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited
times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries." It is by virtue of this
clause that Congress has passed the laws &.nderwhich the
patents of the defendant in this case were issued.
Article 4, Sec. 3, par. 2, declares that "the Congress shall have
power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property belonging to the
United States." It is under this clause that' Congress has
passed laws by which title to public lands is conveyed to individuals, by instruments also called patents.
The power, therefore, to issue a patent for an invention, and

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

359

Opinion of the Court.

the authority to issue such an instrument for a grant of land,
emanate from the same source, and although exercised by different bureaux or officers under the government, are of the
same nature, character and validity, and imply in each case
the exercise of the power of the government according to
modes regulated by acts of Congress.
With regard to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in
which this suit was brought, there does not seem to be any
objection made by defendants, if such suit could be brought
in any court. Indeed, the language of the act of Congress on
that subject does not admit of any such doubt, for it declares
"that the Circuit Courts of the United States shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several
States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs,
the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority, or in
which the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners." Act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 47O.
In the present case the United States are plaintiffs, and the
bill asserts that the suit is one of a civil nature, and of equitable cognizance; and manifestly, if it presents a good cause of
action, it arises under the laws and Constitution of the United
States. It is, therefore, within the language, both of the Constitution and of the statute conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts. An examination of the specific objections made
to the present bill will illustrate and enforce this general view.
While it cannot successfully be denied that the general powers
of a court of equity include the right to annul and set aside
contracts or instruments obtained by fraud, to correct mistakes
made in them, and to give all other appropriate relief against
documents of that character, such as requiring their delivery
up, their cancellation, or their correction, in order to make
them conform to the intention of the parties, it would seem to
require some special reason why the government of the United
States should not be able to avail itself of these powers of a
court of equity. Accordingly, the defendant objects, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

appropriate remedy,'if any exists, is in the common-law courts,
and not in a court of equity, and that in the ancient proceedings of our English ancestors, in regard to patents, the only
remedy for relief against them, when they were improvidently
issued, was by a scire facias in the name of the king, or by
his express and personal revocation of them.
Charters and patents authenticating grants of personal
privileges were in the earlier days of the English government
made by the crown. They were supposed to emanate directly
from the king, and were not issued under any authority given
by acts of Parliament, nor were they regulated by any statutes. Being, therefore, in'their origin an exercise of his personal prerogative, the power of revoking them, so far as they
could be revoked at all, was in the king, and was exercised
by him as a personal privilege. This mode of revoking
patents, however, seems to have fallen into disuse; and the
same end was attained by the issue of writs of scirefacias,in
the name of the king, to show cause why the patents should
not be repealed or revoked. These were, of course, returnable
into some court; and it appears to have been the practice to
do this in the Court of King's Bench, or in the Court of Chancery, where the record of the patent always remained in what
was called the petty bag office. If the latter mode is to be
considered a proceeding in chancery which, under our adoption
of the methods and jurisdiction of the High. Court of Chancery in England, would fall within the province of a chancery
court in this country, then the precedent for the exercise of
this jurisdiction by a Court of Chancery is clear and undoubted. This, however, is a question which, if not in relation to this particular class of cases, has in regard to others,
concerning the prerogative jurisdiction of the court of chancery in this country, been doubted. But the courts of England seem to have considered that in the matter of repealing
or revoking a patent the king may sue in what court he
pleases. See .Magdalen College Case, 11 IRep. 66 b, 68 b, and
75 a.
The jurisdiction to repeal a patent by a decree of a Court of
Chancery as an exercise of its ordinary powers was sustained

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

361

Opinion of the Court.

in the case of Attorney General v. Vernon, 1 Vernon, 277. In
that action a bill was brought by the Attorney General
against Vernon and others to set aside a patent issued by the
crown, on the ground that it was obtained by surprise and
by false particulars. It was insisted by the defendant's counsel that there never had been any precedent of this nature to
repeal letters patent by an English bill in chancery, but that
it was a case of first impression; and they contended that the
title under the letters patent was one purely at law and returnable there; likewise, that there was a remedy by scire
facias. It was also objected that the word "fraud," which, if
anything, must give jurisdiction to the court in the case, was
not in the whole bill. Also, among other things, it was objected, that if letters patent should be impeached by an English bill in chancery upon such suggestions and pretensions as
these, no patentee could be safe, nor would the king's seal be
of any force. To this it was replied, on the part of the king,
that he may sue in what court he pleases; that the bill charges
surprise and false particulars, and that fraud is properly relievable here; that the king ought not to be in a worse condition than a subject; that a nobleman would be relieved of
such a fraud put upon him by his servant; and that, if the
king could not be relieved in this case by an English bill, he
would be without remedy. Whereupon the Lord Keeper said:
"The question is short, whether there be a fraud, or not? If
a fraud, it is properly relievable here. It is not fit such a
matter as this should be stifled upon a plea; and therefore the
Iord Kfeep)er overruled the plea, and denied to save the benefit
of it till the hearing, because he would not give any countenance to such a case." p. 282.
So far as precedent is concerned, this case, which has never
been overruled, establishes the doctrine that in a case of fraud
in the obtaining of a patent, a Court of Chancery, by virtue
of that fact, has jurisdiction to repeal or revoke it.
The case of TIte Zing v. Butlr, 3 Levinz, 220, which was
heard in the House of Lords, was one where the king had
made a grant of a market by letters patent to Sir Oliver Butler, the defendant. A writ of soirefaciaswas brought in the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Chancery to repeal the grant, and the Lord Chancellor gave judgment that it should be vacated; whereupon the
matter was brought by a writ of error to the House of Lords,
and, after argument there, the peers requested the opinion of
the judges then attending in Parliament, who all unanimously
agreed that the judgment given in chancery dught to be
affirmed, and delivered their opinion accordingly. It was
objected that the writ did not lie, because there was a remedy
by the common law, to wit, by assize of nuisance, where the
matter should be tried by a jury, and by several judges, and
not by on6 only, as it is in chancery. To which they answered, that the king has an undoubted right to repeal a
patent wherein he is deceived or his subjects prejudiced. And
in none of the cases cited was there any question whether the
writ would lie, but only the manner of pursuing it, and. other
incident matters. It was said that it was not .unusual for the
king to have his remedy as well as the subject also.
The whole text of the answers of the judges in this case
seems to imply that a jury was not necessary, but that the
existence of the record in the Court of Chancery was a sufficient foundation for the proceeding there, though it might be
brought in some other court, when the king had declared the
patent forfeited, or when there had been oflice found. The
judgment of the Court*of Chancery was therefore affirmed.
See on this subject Queen v. Aires, 10 Mod. 258, 354; Queen
v. Eastern -Archipelago Co., 1 El. & B1. 310; Cumming v.
F.o''ester, 2 Jac. & Walk. 334, 341.
But whatever may have been the course of procedure usual
or requisite in the English jurisprudence, to enable the king
to repeal, revoke or nullify his own patents, issued under his
prerogative right, it can have but little force in limiting or
restricting the measures by which the government of the
United States shall have a remedy for an imposition upon it
or its officers in the procurement or issue of a patent. We
have no king in this countiy; we have here no prerogative
right of the crown; and letters patent, whether for inventions or for grants of land, issue not from the President but
from the United States. The President has no prerogative in

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

363

Opinion of the Court.

the matter. He has no right to issue a patent, and, though
it is the custom for patents for lands to be signed by him,
they are of no avail until the proper seal of the government is
affixed to them. Indeed, a recent act of Congress authorizes
the appointment of a clerk for the special purpose of signing
the President's name to patents of that character. And so
far as patents for inventions are concerned, whatever may
have been the case formerly, since the act of July 8, 1870,
they are issued without his signature and without his name
or his style of office being mentioned in them. The authority
for this procedure is embodied in the following anguage of
the Revised Statutes:
" SEc. 4883. All patents shall be issued in the name of the
United States of America, under the seal of the Patent Office,
and shall be signed by the Secretary of the Interior and countersigned by the Commissioner of Patents, and they shall be
recorded, together with the specifications, in the Patent Office,
in books to be kept for that purpose."
This only expresses the necessary effect of the acts of Congress. The authority by which the patent issues is that of the
United States of America. The seal which is used is the seal
of the Patent Office, and that was created by Congressional
enactment. It is signed by the Secretary of the Interior, and
the Commissioner of Patents, who also countersigns it, is an
officer of that department. The patent, then, is not the exercise of any prerogative power or discretion by the President
or by any other officer of the government, but it is the result
of a course of proceeding, qasi judicial in its character, and
is not subject to be repealed or revoked by the President, the
Secretary of the Interior, or the Commissioner of Patents,
when once issued. See lrnitedl States v. Slhurz, 102 U. S.
378.
It is not without weight, in considering the jurisdiction of
a court of equity in regard to the power to impeach patents,
that an appeal is provided from the decision of the Commissioner of Patents to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia., and that the Revised Statutes enact as follows:
"'
SEc. 4915. Whenever a patent on application is refused,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

either by the Commissioner of Patents, or by the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia upon appeal from the Cohimissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill in equity;
and the court having cognizance thereof, on notice to adverse
parties and other due proceedings had, may adjudge that such
applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent for
his invention, as specified in his claim, or for any part thereof,
as the facts in the case may appear." It.is then further provided, that, if the adjudication be in favor of the applicant, it
shall authorize the Commissioner of Patents to issue such
patent upoh the applicant's filing in the Patent Office a copy
of the adjudication.
These provisions, while they do not in express terms confer
upon the courts of equity of the United States the power to
annul or vacate a patent, show very clearly the sense of Congress that if such power is to be exercised anywhere it should
be in the equity jurisdiction of those courts. The only authority competent to set a patent aside, or to annul it, or to
correct it, for any reason whatever, is vested in the judicial
department of the government, and this can only be effected
by proper proceedings taken in the courts of the -United
States.
This subject has been frequently discussed in this court, and
the principles necessary to its decision have been well established. The case of United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, was a
bill in chancery brought by the United States, in the Circuit
Court for the District of Kansas, to set aside a patent issued
by the government to Stone, the defendant. The question of
the jurisdiction of the court to entertain such a bill, which was
denied by counsel for Stone, was discussed at considerable
length in their brief, and in the argument of counsel for the
United States the language of Chief Justice Kent,,in Jackson
v. Lawton, 10 Johns. 24, was cited to the following effect:
"The English practice of suing out a scire facias by the first
patentee may have grown out of the rights of the prerogative,
and it ceases to be applicable with us. In addition to the
remedy by scire faci", etc., there is another by bill in the
equity sideof the Court of Chancery. Such a bill 'was sus-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

365

Opinion of the Court.

tained in the case of The Atto'ney General v. -ernon, 1 Vernon, 277, to set aside letters patent obtained by fraud, and
they were set aside by a decree."
This extract from the brief of counsel in the Stone case is
cited to show that the attention of the court was turned to
this question, and the language of the opinion, as delivered by
Mr. Justice Grier, expresses in sententious terms the result
arrived at by this court in regard to this entire question. It is
as follows: "A patent is the highest evidence of title, and
is conclusive as against the Government, and all claiming
under junior patents or titles, until it is set aside or annulled
by some judicial tribunal. In England this was originally
done by scirefacia, but a bill in chancery is found a more
convenient remedy. Nor is fraud in the patentee the only
ground upon which a bill will be sustained. Patents are
sometimes issued unadvisedly or by mistake, where the officer
has no authority in law to grant them, or where another party
has a higher equity and should have received the patent. In
such cases courts of law will pronounce them void. The patent is but evidence of a grant, and the officer who issues it
acts ministerially and not judicially. If he issues a patent for
land reserved from sale by law, such patent is void for want of
authority. But one officer of the Land Office is not competent
to cancel or annul the act of his predecessor. That is a judicial act, and reqhires the judgment of a court. It is contended
here, by the counsel of the United States, that the land for
which a patent was granted to the appellant was reserved
from sale for the use of the government, and, consequently,
that the patent is void. And although no fraud is charged in
the bill, we have no doubt that such a proceeding in chancery
is the proper remedy, and that if the allegations of the bill are
supported, the decree of the court below cancelling the patent
should be affirmed." p. 535.
We cite thus fully from this case because it is the first one
in which the questions now before us were fully considered
and clearly decided. In the previous case of United States v.
.H.ughes, 11 How. 552, the same question came before the
curt on demurrer. The court held that the demurrer must

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

be overruled, saying that itf cannot "be conceived why the
government should stand on a different footing from any
other proprietor." The case afterwards came again before
this court, and is reported in 4 Wall. 232, later than the Stone
case. The court then said: "It was the plain duty of the
United States to seek to vacate and annul the instrument, to
the end that their previous engagement might be fulfilled by
the transfer of a clear title, the only one intended for the purchaser by the act of Congress." United States v. Hughes, 4
Wall. 232, 236.
In the case of -Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 533, this
court said, in a suit between private citizens, and speaking of
the issue of patents by the government: "If fraud, mistake,
error, or wrong has been done, the courts of justice present
the only remedy. These courts are as open to the United
States to sue for the cancellation of the deed or reconveyance
of the land as to individuals; and if the government is the
party injured, this is the proper course." In -Moffat v. United States, 112 U. S. 24, a decree of the
Circuit Court setting aside a patent as having been obtained
by fraud was affirmed; and the same doctrine was reasserted
in United States v. .Minor, 114 U. S. 233. Still later, in the
case of ColoradaoCoal and ron Co. v. United States, 123 U. S.
307, the right of the court, by a proceeding in equity at the
instance of the Attorney General and in the name of the
United States, to set aside a patent for land, was fully recogfiized, and the language used in the case of United States v.
_Minor, supra, was cited to the following effect: "Where the
patent is the result of nothing but fraud and perjury, it is
enough to hold that it conveys the legal title, and it would be
going quite too far to say that it cannot be assailed by a proceeding in equity and set aside as void, if the fraud is proved
and there are no innocent holders for value." p. 243.
The whole question was reviewed at great length by this
court at its last term in the case of UAited States v. San faeinto Tin, Co., 125 U. S. 273, when all the cases above mentioned, and others, were cited and commented upon. The
matter is thfus summed up in the opinion of the court: "But

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

367

Opinion of the Court.

we are of opinion that since the right of the Government of
the United States to institute such a suit depends upon the
same general principles which would authorize a private citizen
to apply to a ccurt of justice for relief against an instrument
obtained from him by fraud or deceit, or any of those other
practices which are admitted to justify a court in granting
relief, the government must show that, like the private individual, it has such an interest in the relief sought as entitles
it to move in the matter. If it be a question of property, a
case must be made in which the court can afford a remedy in
regard to that property; if it be a question of fraud, which
would render the instrument void, the fraud must operate to
the prejudice of the United States; and if it is apparent that
the suit is brought for the benefit of some third party, and
that the United States has no pecuniary interest in the remedy
sought, and is under no obligation to the party who will be
benefited to sustain an action for his use; in short, if there
does not appear any obligation on the part of the United
States to the public, or to any individual, or any interest of
its own, it can no more sustain such an action than any private
person could under similar circumstances." pp. 285, 286.
This language is construed by counsel for the appellee in
this case to limit the relief granted at the instance of the
United States to cases in which it has a direct pecuniary interest. But it is not susceptible of such construction. It was
evidently in the mind of the court that the case before it
was one where the property right to the land in controversy
was the matter of importance, but it was careful to say that
the cases in which the instrumentality of the court cannot
thus be used are those where the United States has no pecuniary interest in the remedy sought, and is also under no obligation to the party who will be benefited to sustain an action
for his use, and also where it does not appear that any obligation existed on the part of the United States to the public or
to any individual. The essence of the right of the United
States to interfere in the present case is its obligation to protect the public from the monopoly of the patent which was
procured by fraud, and it would be difficult to find language

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

more aptly used to include this in the class of cases which are
not excluded from the jurisdiction of the court by want of
interest in the government of the United States.
It is insisted that these decisions have reference exclusively
to patents for land, and that they are not applicable to patents
for inventions and discoveries. The argument very largely
urged for that view is the one just stated, that in the cases
which had reference to patents for land the pecuniary interest
of the United States was the foundation of the jurisdiction.
This, however, is repelled by the language just cited, and by
the fact that in more than one of the cases, notably in United
State&v. Hughes, supra,the right of the government to sustain
the suit was based upon its legal or moral obligation to give a
good title to another party who had a prior and a better claim
to the land, but whose right was obstructed by the patent
issued by the United States.
The case of .Xowry v. T-itn.y, 14 Wall. 434, 439, 440, was
a bill in chancery brought by Mowry, in the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, against Whitney, charging that Whitney's patent for a mode of annealing and cooling cast-iron car wheels, and an extension of it made by the
Patent Office, had been procured by fraud and false swearing,
and praying that it and the extension might be declared void,
and of no effect. To this bill Whitney demurred. The demurrer was sustained by the court below, and from the decree
dismissing the bill Mowry took an appeal to this court, where
it was said "that the complainant could not, in his own right,
sustain such a suit." In giving its reasons for this, the court
said: "We are of opinion that no one but the government,
either in its own name or the name of its appropriate officer, or
by some form of proceeding which gives official assurance of
the sanction of the proper authority, can institute judicial proceedings for the purpose of vac,ting or rescinding the patent
which the government has issued to an individual, except in
the cases provided for in § 16 of the act of July 4, 1836. The
ancient mode of doing this in the English courts was by scire
facias, and three classes of cases are laid down in which this
may be done." One of these is, "When the king has granted

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

369

Opinion of the Court.

a thing by false suggestion, he may by scire faias repeal his
own grant. (Citing 4 Inst. 88; Dyer, 197-8, and 276, 279.)
The seire facias to repeal a patent was brought in
chancery where the patent was of record. And though in
this country the writ of scire facias is not in use as a chancery proceeding, the nature of the chancery jurisdiction and
its mode of proceeding have established it as the appropriate
tribunal for the annulling of a grant or patent from the government. This is settled, so far as this court is concerned, by
the case of United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525.1' The opinion
then refers to Attorney General v. Fernon and Jackson v.

Lawton, already cited.
It is said that this language of the court is obiter, and does
not decide directly that a suit can be brought in chancery to
cancel or annul a patent issued by the United States government for an invention. It is true that what the court was
called upon to decide was that a private citizen could not
bring such suit, but evidently the reason given for it must be
held to establish the principle upon which the court acted, and
that reason was that the private citizen could not do it because
the right lay with the government. The duty and the right
of the government to bring an action which would end in
the destruction of the patent, and which would thus protect everybody against the asserted monopoly of it was the
reason why the private citizen could not for himself bring
such a suit.
Another reason given by the court is that the fraud, if one
exists, must have been practised on the government, which, as
the party injured, is the appropriate party to seek relief, and
that a, suit by an individual could only be conclusive in result
as between the patentee and the party suing, and the patent
would remain a valid instrument as to all others; while, if the
action was brought by the government, and a decree had to
annul the patent, this would be conclusive in all suits founded
on the patent. Other reasons were given showing that the
United Stateg was the appropriate party to bring such a suit,
and that the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in
equity, was the proper tribunal in which to bring it; all tendvoL. c=xvm-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to show that the reason why a private citizen could not
have such relief was that it belonged to the government.
The United States, by issuing' the patents which are here
sought to be annulled, has taken from the public rights of immense value and bestowed them upon the patentee. In this
respect the government and its officers are acting as the agents
of the people, and have, under the authority of law vested in
them, taken from the people this valuable privilege and conferred it as an exclusive right upon the patentee. This is
property, property of a value so large that nobody has been
able to estimate it. In a former argument in this court, it
was said to be worth more than tienty-five millions of dollars. This has been taken from the people, from the public,
and made the private property oE the patentee by the action
of one of the departments of the government acting under
the forms of law, but deceived and misled, as the bill alleges,
by the patentee. That the government, authorized both by
the Constitution and the statutes to bring suits at law 'and in
equity, should find it to be its duty to correct this evil, to
recall these patents, to get a remedy for this fraud, is so clear
that it needs no argument; and we think we have demonstrated that the proper remedy isone adopted by the government in this case.
But conceding that, in regard to patents for land, and in
reference to other transactions, in which the government is a
party, the courts of equity have jurisdiction to correct mistakes, to give relief for frauds, and to cancel contracts and
other important instruments, it is said that in reference to
patents for inventions and discoveries the acts of Congress
have provided another remedy for frauds committed in obtaining them, and for the very class of frauds set up in this bill.
Counsel therefore contend that this supersedes all others.
This remedy is found in the following provision of the Revised
Statutes.
"Sec. 4920. In any action for infringement the defendant
may plead the general issue, and having given notice in writing to the plaintiff or his attorney thirty days before, may
prove on trial any one or more of the following special matters:

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

371

Opinion of the Court.

"First. That for the purpose of deceiving the public the
description and specification filed by the patentee in the
Patent Office was made to contain less than the whole truth
relative to his invention or discovery, or more than is necessary to produce the desired effect; or,
"Second. That he had surreptitiously or unjustly obtained
the patent for that which was in fact invented by another,
who was using reasonable diligence in adapting and perfecting
the same; or,
"Third. That it had been patented or described in some
printed publication prior to his supposed invention or discovery thereof ; or,
"Fourth. That he was not the original and first inventor or
discoverer of any material and substantial part of the thing
patented ; or,
"Fifth. That it had been in public use or on sale in this
country for more than two years before his application for a
patent, or had been abandoned to the public."
Prior to the year 1836, from the earliest enactments of
patent law, certain provisions had been incorporated in that
law authorizing a scirefaciasto issue to declare a patent void
for want of invention by the patentee, and other matters,
which, though instituted by a private individual, was under
the control of the official attorneys of the government. This
was repealed by the act of 1836, which may be said to be the
first real and successful organization of the Patent Office and
the system of patent law in the United States. The law on
this subject was revised by the act of Congress of July 8,1870,
16 Stat. 198, and the Revised Statutes of the United States,
from which § 4920 is quoted, contain the language applicable
to this subject.
The statute of 1836 repealed the provision for a scirefacias.
It is now argued that the repeal of this provision, together with
the enactment of the provision of § 4920, shows that the only
remedy for the improvident issuing of a patent is to be found
in the language of that section. These clauses, while they do
not in any general form declare that a person sued for an infringement of a patent may set up as a defence that it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

procured by fraud or deceit, do in effect specify various acts of
fraud which the infringer may rely upon as a defence to a suit
against him founded upon that instrument. It is, therefore,
urged that because each individual affected by the monopoly

of the patent is at liberty, when he is sued for using it without
license or authority, to set up these defences, the remedy
which the United States has under the principles we have
attempted to sustain, is superseded by that fact. But a consideration of the nature and effect of these different modes of
proceeding in regard to the patent will show that no such
purpose can be inferred from these clauses of the act of Congress.
In the first place, the right given to the infringer to make
this defence is a right given to him personally, and to him
alone, and the effect of a successful defence of this character
by one infringer is simply to establish the fact that, as between
him and the patentee, no right of action exists for the reasons
set up in such defence. But the patentee is not prevented by
any such decision from suing a hundred other infringers, if so
many there be, and putting each of them to an expensive
defence, in which they all, or some of them, may be defeated
and compelled to pay because they are not in possession of the
evidence on which the other infringer succeeded in establishing his defence. On the other hand, the suit of the government, if successful, declares the patent void, sets it aside as of
no force, vacates it or recalls it, and puts an end to all.suits
which the patentee can bring against anybody. It opens to
the entire world the use of the invention or discovery in
regard to which the patentee had asserted a monopoly.
This broad and conclusive effect of a decree of the court, in
a suit of that character brought by the United States, is so
widely different, so much more beneficial, and is pursued
under circumstances so much more likely to secure complete
justice, than any defence which can be made by an individual
infringer, that it is impossible to suppose that Congress, in
granting this right to the individual, intended to supersede or
take away the more enlarged remedy of the government.
Some of these specifications of grounds of defence are not

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.

373

Opinion of the Court.
such as would ordinarily be sufficient in a court of equity to set
aside the patent, as "that it had been in public use or on sale
in this country for more than two years," or "that it had been
patented or described in some printed publication prior to his
supposed invention or discovery thereof." It is unnecessary
to decide whether these grounds now would be sufficient cause
for setting aside a patent in a suit by the United States, but
they are not of that general character which would give a
court of equity jurisdiction to do that, except as it may be
said they are now parts of the general system of the patent law.
A question almost identical with this was made in the House
of Peers in the case of Tke King v. Butler, 3 Levinz, 220, as
to whether the judgment obtained by the king in the Court of
Chancery repealed the grant to Butler. It was answered by
the judges to some of the objections that "it was not unusual
for the King to have his remedy, as well as the subject also;
as for batteries, trespasses, etc., the King has a remedy by
information and indictment, and the party grieved by his
action."
The argument need not be further extended. There is
nothing in these provisions expressing an intention of limiting the power of the government of the United States to get
rid of a patent obtained from it by fraud and deceit. And
although the legislature may have given to private individuals
a more limited form of relief, by way of defence to an action
by the patentee, we think the argument that this was intended to supersede the affirmative relief to which the United
States is entitled, to obtain a cancellation or vacation of an
instrument obtained from it by fraud, an instrument which
affects the whole public whose protection from such a fraud
is eminently the duty of the United States, is not sound.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of plantif is reversed, and the case remanded to that court, with
directions to overrule the demurrer,with leave to defendants to lead or answer, or both, within a time to be fXxed
by that court.
m. JusTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

