OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Counsel for Parties.

of declining to consider other matters not necessary to a deterruination of the issue. If the plaintiff in this action had no
title under the act of 1820, because the United States had none
to give, he had no right of action, and the case was properly
decided against him.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is therefore
Afflrmed.

WALSTON v. NEVIN.
ROACH v. 1TEVIN.
ERROR TO THE COUIRT OF APPEALS OF THE COMIONWEALTH
RENTUCKY.

OF

Nos. 1129,1160. Submitted November 26, 188.-Decided December 10, 1888.

On motion to dismiss or affirm it is only necessary to print so much of the
record as will enable the court to act understandingly, without referring
to the transcript.
The party objecting that enough of the record is not printed to enable the
court to act understandingly, on a motion to dismiss should make specific
reference to the parts which he thinks should be supplied.
The Kentucky statute of March 24, 1882, which authorizes the city government of Louisville to open and improve streets and assess the cost thereof on the owners of adjoining lots, does not deprive such owners of
their property without due process of law, and does not deny them the
equal protection of the laws, and is not repugnant to Section 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
When on a motion to dismiss a writ of error or an appeal for want of jurisdiction or affirm the judgment below, it appears that there was color for
the motion to dismiss, and that the contention of the plaintiff in error or
the appellant has been often pressed upon the court and as often determined adversely, the motion to affirm will be granted.

THESE were motions to dismiss or affirm, under Rule 6,
Paragraph 5, 108 U. S. 575. The case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. J. IF Goodoe, for the motion.
.r.

B. F. Buckner opposing.

WALSTON

v. NEVIN.

Opinion of the Court.

MAn.
court.

CHIEF JusTICE FULLEr,

delivered the opinion of the

Judgment was rendered in the Louisville Chancery Court
in favor of the defendants in error in the first of the abovenamed causes, directing the enforcement of a lien given bya,
statute of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, approved March
24, 1882, entitled "An act to amend the charter of the city of
Louisville," by a sale of certain lots in the city of Louisville
owned by plaintiffs in error, to pay the amounts assessed
against such lots for a local improvement, and, upon appeal,
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
In the second case, which arose upon another local improvement, but involves the same questions here, the Louisville
Chancery Court denied the defendants in error relief because
in its opinion the proceedings for the improvement had not
been properly taken; but the Court of Appeals reversed the
judgment of the Chancellor and remanded the cause "with
directions to enforce the lien and for proceedings consistent
with the opinion herein, which is ordered to be certified to
said court."
Writs of error were thereupon prosecuted to this court, to
dismiss which motions are now made, united with motions to
affirm under the rule.
A preliminary objection is raised that defendants in error
should have caused the entire record to be printed. But
we only require the printing of so much of the record as will
enable us to act understandingly without referring to the transcript; and if, in the judgment of counsel opposing the motions,
more in that respect was needed, he might have made such
specific reference thereto as would have enabled counsel for
the moving parties to have supplied it. As the cases stand,
we have apparently been furnished with quite enough for the
disposition of the questions involved. The parts of the statute
necessary to be considered upon these motions are as follows :
"ยง 1. Public ways as used in this act shall mean all public
streets, alleys, sidewalks, roads, lanes, avenues, highways,
and thoroughfares, and shall be under the exclusive manage-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ment and control of said city, with power to improve them
by original construction and reconstruction thereof as may be
prescribed by ordinance. Improvements as applied to public
ways shall mean all work and material used upon them in the
construction and reconstruction thereof, .and shall be made
and done as may be prescribed either by ordinance or contract,
approved by the general council.
"ยง 2. When the improvement is the original construction
of any street, road, lane, alley, or avenue, such improvement
shall be made at the exclusive costs of the owners of lots in
each fourth of a square, to be equally apportioned by the
general council according to the number of square feet owned
by them respectively, except that corner lots (say thirty feet
front and extending back as may be prescribed by ordinance)
shall pay twenty-five per cent more than others for such im-provements. Each subdivision of territory bounded on all
:sides by principal streets shall be deemed a square. When
the territory contiguous to any public way is not defined into
;squares by principal streets, the ordinance providing for the
improvement of such public way shall state the depth on both
sides fronting said improvement to be assessed for the cost of
making the same according to the number of square feet
owned by the parties respectively within the depth as set out
in the ordinance. A lien shall exist for the cost of original
improvement of public ways, . . . for the apportionment
and interest thereon, at the rate of six per cent per annum
against the respective lots and payments may be enforced
upon the property bound therefor by proceedings in court;
and no error in the proceedings of the general council shall
exempt from payment after the work has been done as required
by either the ordinance or contract; but the general council,
or the courts in which suits may be pending, shall make all
corrections, rules, and orders to do justice to all parties concerned, ..
"ยง 4. . . . When improvements in public ways have been
made, . . . and the contract therefor completed, the city
engineer shall, by one insertion in one of the daily newspapers published in Louisville, give notice of the time and

WALSTON v. NEVIN.
Opinion of the Court.

place fixed for inspection and reception of' the work by the
city engineer or either of his assistants or deputies, and such
owners, their agents and representatives, may appear and be
heard before such engineer, his assistant or deputy, as to
whether such improvements have been made in accordance
with the ordinance authorizing the same and the contract
therefor." 1 Kentucky Session Laws, 1881, 990.
In accordance with the provisions of this act the local
improvements in question were made, and warrants issued for
the sums apportioned against each of the lots belonging to
plaintiffs in error as their share of the cost, to Joseph Nevin,
the contractor, one of the defendants in error, who assigned
them to Samuel B. Richardson, the other, and they brought
the actions.
The plaintiffs in error set up in their pleadings, and insisted
in the trial court, that the act of the General Assembly, so
far as it authorized the cost of the improvements of streets
and other ways to be assessed against the owners of lots and
gave a lien thereon, in the manner therein provided, and all
the proceedings thereunder, were in conflict with section one
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, as amounting to a deprivation of property
without due process of law and a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The statute has been repeatedly before the Kentucky Court
of Appeals, which has sustained it as constitutional and proper
legislation, the powers vested thereby in the local government
being subjected to the supervision of the courts, "where the
particular facts in each case can be examined, and the controversy determined by those rules and principles which have
always governed courts in dealing with questions of assessment
and taxation." Preston v. Robert, 12 Bush, 570, 587; Beclk
v. Obst, 12 Bush, 268; Broadway Baptist Chure v. JcAtee,
8 Bush, 508, 516. Unjust, unequal, or arbitrary burdens axe
not authorized to be imposed by the terms of the act, and
opportunity is given to every party interested to be heard in
opposition to the enforcement of the liability in the courts,
which are specifically authorized to "make all corrections,
rules, and orders to do justice to all parties concerned."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

In Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104, it was held
by this court, 3r. Justice Miller delivering the opinion, "that
whenever by the laws of a State, or by state authority, a
tax, assessment, servitude, or other burden is imposed upon
property for the public use, whether it be for the whole State
or of some more limited portion of the community, and those
laws provide for a mode of confirming or contesting the
charge thus imposed, in the ordinary courts of justice, with
such notice to the person, or such proceeding in regard to the
property, as is appropriate to the nature of the case, the
judgment in such proceedings cannot be said to deprive the
owner of his property without due process of law, however
obnoxious it may be to other objections. . . . It is not
possible to hold that a party has, without due process of law,
been deprived of his property, when, as regards the issues
affecting it, he has, by the laws of the State, a fair trial in
a court of justice, according to the modes of proceeding applicable to such a case." And the conclusion was reached that
neither the corporate agency by which the work is done,
the excessive price which the statute allows therefor, nor the
relative importance of the work to the value of the land
assessed, nor the fact that the assessment is made before the
work is done, nor that the assessment is unequal as regards
the benefits conferred, nor that personal judgments are rendered for the amount assessed, are matters in which the state
authorities are controlled by the Federal Constitution. So the
determination of the taxing district and the manner of the
apportionment are all within the legislative power. Spencer
v. MLerchuant, 125 U. S.345; Stanley v. Super'visos', 121 U. S.
535, 550; .1obile v. JKimball, 102 U. S. 691; Hagar v. Recla-nation .Distriet 1o. 108, 111 U. S. 701; Unite(l States v.
.JXemphis, 97 U. S.284; La'amie County v. Albany County,
92 U. S. 307. And whenever the law operates alike on all
persons and property, similarly situated, equal protection
cannot be said to be denied. Turts v. -oaglalnl, 114 U. S.
606; Railroad Company v. Richmond, 96 U. S. 521, 529.
The remedy for abuse is in the state courts, for, in the language
of Mr. Justice Field in .31obilev. Kinball, "this court is not

MEANS v. DOWD.
Opinion of the Court.

the harbor in which the people of a city or county can find a
refuge from ill-advised, unequal, and oppressive State legislation."
As the question raised in these cases is a Federal question
(Spencer v. Mochant, supfra), we will not sustain the motions
to dismiss; but as there was, in our judgment, color for those
motions, and the contention now made has often been pressed
upon our attention before, and as often determined adversely,
so that the rule must be regarded as settled, we shall grant
the motions to affirm.
Affrmed.

_________

MEANS v. DOWD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH- CAROLINA.
No. 47.

Submitted and decided December 17, 1888.

The court denies a motion for an order for a mandate, no notice of it having been given to the other party.

IT has been the custom with the court to make a general
order, immediately before the commencement of the February
recess, for the issue of mandates in every case disposed of prior
to the 1st of January, if application therefor should be made,
except in cases in which a petition for rehearing might be
pending, and cases docketed and dismissed under the 9th
rule. In this case, which is reported ante, page 273, application was made to the court for the immediate issue of a mandate, without giving the other party notice of the intention
to make such a motion.

Mr'. TF. IF. Fleming for the motion.
No one opposing.
PER Cuniu
: No notice having been given to the other side,
and there being no agreement of the parties that the mandate
may issue, the motion is
Denied.

