OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

GEORGIA RAILROAD AND BANKIG CO-PANY
v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 28. Argued October 16, 17, 1888.-Decided October 29, 1838.

The incorporation of a railroad company by a State, the granting to it of
special privilege to carry out the object of its incorporation, particularly
the authority to exercise the State's right of eminent domain to appropriate private property to its uses, and the obligation, assumed by the
acceptance of the charter, to transport all persons and merchandise upon
like conditions and for reasolable rates, affect the property and employment with a public use, and thus subject the business of the company
to a legislative control which may extend to the prevention of extortion
by unreasonable charges, and favoritism by discriminations.
In order to exempt a railroad corporation from legislative interference with
its rates of charges within a designated limit, it must appear that the exemption was made in its charter by clear and unmistakable language,
inconsistent with any reservation of power by the State to that effect.
Although the general purpose of a proviso in a statute is to qualify the operation of the statute, or of some part of it, it is often used in other senses,
and is so used in the act of the legislature of Georgia of December 21,
1833, incorporating the Georgia Railroad Company; and that act does
not exempt the corporation created by it, or its successors, from the
duty of submitting to reasonable requirements concerning transportation
rates made by a railroad commission created by the State.

By an act of the legislature of Georgia, passed December
21, 1833, the plaintiff in error was incorporated under the
name of the Georgia Railroad Company, and empowered to
construct a "rail or turnpike road from the city of Augusta,"
with branches extending to certain towns in the State, and to
be carried beyond those places at the discretion of the company. Laws of Georgia, 1833, 256.
By an act of the legislature, passed December 18, 1835, certain amendments to the charter were made, and among others
one changing its corporate name to "The Georgia Railroad
and Banking Company," its present designation.
The twelfth section of the charter, among other things, declared that "The said Georgia Railroad Company shall, at all

GEORGIA BANKING CO. 'v. SMITH.

175

Statement of the Case.

times, have the exclusive right of transportation or conveyance of persons, merchandise, and produce, over the railroad
and railroads to be by them constructed, while they see fit to
exercise the exclusive right: Provided, That the charge of
transportation or conveyance shall not exceed fifty cents per
hundred pounds, on heavy articles, and ten cents per cubic
foot, on articles of measurement, for every one hundred miles;
and five cents per mile for every passenger: Provided,always,
That the said company may, when they see fit, rent or farm
out all or any part of their exclusive right of transportation
or conveyance of-persons, on the railroad or railroads, with
the privilege to any individual or individuals, or other company, and for such term as may be agreed upon, subject to the
rates above mentioned. And the said company, in the exercise of their right of carriage or transportation of persons or
property, or the persons so taking from the company the right
of transportation or conveyance, shall, so far as they act on
the same, be regarded as common carriers." In pursuance of
the authority conferred by this section the company, by a
deed bearing date on the 7th of May, 1881, leased to one
William M. Wadley, for the term of ninety-nine years, "all its
privileges, general and exclusive," of transporting persons and
property over the lines of railroad owned and controlled by
it, to the full extent that it then enjoyed, or was entitled to
enjoy, or might thereafter acquire, subject to the obligations
and duties imposed by its charter. With these privileges the
company also leased to Wadley, for the same term, all its
railroads and their branches, "together with its rights of way,
road-beds, depots, stations, warehouses, elevators, workshops,
wells, cisterns, water tanks, and other appurtenances." The
lessee on his part covenanted to pay the company, as a consideration for the lease, the sum of $600,000 annually, for the
full term of ninety-nine years, in two semiannual payments;
also to pay the taxes on the property and franchises; to return
the property on the termination of the lease in as good condition as it was at its date; to keep the railroad and its appurtenances and the means of transportation in first-class condition, and to indemnify the company against any damages,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Cgse.

losses, or liabilities in the operation of the roads. This lessee
has since died, and in the present case his interests were maintained in the court below by his executor.
On the 14th of October, 1870, the legislature of Georgia
passed an act entitled "An act to provide for the regulation
of railroad freight and passenger tariffs in this State; to prevent unjust discrimination and extortion in the rates charged
for transportation of passengers and freights, and to prohibit
railroad companies, corporations, and lessees in this State from
charging other than just and reasonable rates, and to punish
the same, and prescribe a mode of procedure and rules of evidence in relation thereto; and to appoint commissioners, and
to prescribe their powers and duties in relation to the same."
Laws of Georgia, 1879, 125.
In pursuance of this act a board was constituted, designated
the Railroad Commission, composed of three members, originally consisting of James X. Smith, Campbell Wallace, and
Samuel Barnett; but to'the place of Samuel Barnett the defendant, Leander iN. Trammell, has succeeded. This commission has prescribed rates for the transportation of freight and
persons by railroad companies, in the State, which are less
than the maximum of rates authorized by the 12th section
of the charter of the company. The act imposes a penalty of
not less than one or more than five thousand dollars for every
violation of the rules and regulations thus prescribed. The
company and the executor of the lessee accordingly filed their
bill, in the case before us, in the Superior Court of Fulton
County, Georgia, against the Railroad Commissioners and the
Attorney General of the State, contending, among other things,
that the charter of the company is a contract between it and
the State of Georgia, and"that by it the company has the right
to charge any rates for freight and passengers not exceeding
those limited in the 12th section of its charter, and that the
act of October 14, 1879, is in conflidt with the clause of the
Constitution of the United States which prohibits a State from
passing any act impairing the obligation of a contract. They
pray in their bill that the act may be declared null and void,
and inoperative against them, and that the commission may

GEORGIA BANKING CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

be enjoined from prescribing rates of fare and freight over the
railroad of the company and its branches, or in any manner
enforcing the provisions of the act against them. To this bill
the defendants demurred, on the ground that it disclosed no
case entitling the complainants to relief in equity, and that
they had an adequate and complete remedy at law. The
court sustained the demurrer and dismissed. the bill. On
being taken to the Supreme Court of the State the decree was
affirmed; and to review it the case is brought to this court by
the railroad company.
ill,. Edward Baxter for plaintiff in error. .M. Joseyh B.
Cumrming filed a brief for the same.
.Mr. Cliford Ande'son for defendants in error.
Mr. JUSTICE FIE.LD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As appears from the statement of the case, the contention
in the court below of the company, the plaintiff in error here,
so far as it embraced any Federal question, was that the 12th
section of its charter constituted a grant of a right to charge
the rates therein named; that it built its road and established
its business with this grant as a part of its charter; and that
such a grant is a contract between it and the State of Georgia,
the obligation of which cannot be impaired by its legislation;
and this contention is renewed in this court.
The constitution of Georgia, adopted in December, 1877,
vested in the General Assembly of the State, the designation
given to its legislature, the power to regulate .railroad freights
and passenger tariffs," so as to prevent unjust discriminations
and require reasonable and just rates; and made it the duty
of that body to pass laws from time to time to accomplish
this end, and to prohibit, by adequate penalties, the charging
of other than such rates. Art. IV, ยง 2, Appendix to Code of
Georgia, 1882.
Pursuant to thig provision of the constitution, the act of
October 14, 1879, was passed, providing for the appointment
VOL. cxxvi-12

OCTOBER TERAM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of three railroad commissioners, and authorizing them to prescribe the rates of fare which railroad companies might charge
for the carriage of persons and merchandise within the limits
of the State. The act does not extend to interstate railroad
transportation. Laws of Georgia, 1878-9, 125.
After authorizing the appointment of the three commissioners by the governor, the act declares that any railroad
company doing business in the State, after its passage, which
shall charge or receive more than a fair and reasonable toll or
compensation for the transportation of passengers or freight
of any description, or for the use or transportation of any railroad car upon its track or branches, or upon any railroad which
it has the right to use, shall be deemed guilty of extortion,
and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to certain penalties prescribed.
The commissioners appointed are required to make reasonable and just rates of freight and passenger tariffs to be observed by all railroad companies doing business in the State
on their roads, and to provide for each of the companies a
schedule of just and reasonable rates of charges for the transportation of passengers and freight; and the act declares that
in suits brought against any of the companies, involving unjust charges or discriminations, such schedule shall be taken
in the courts of the State as sufficient evidence that the rates
prescribed are just and reasonable.
The commissioners are required from time to time, and as
often as circumstances may call for it, to change and revise
the schedules, and penalties are prescribed for the enforcement
of their regulations.
The Supreme Court of the State held, on an application for
an injunction in this case, that this delegation of authority by
the legislature to the commissioners, to prescribe what shall
be reasonable and just rates for the carriage and transportation of persons and property over railroads within its limits,
was a, proper exercise of its own power to provide protection to
its citizens against unjust rates for such transportation and to
prevent unjust discriminations; and that it was expected, not
that the legislature would itself make specific regulations as

GEORGIA BANKING CO. v. SMITIH.
Opinion of the Court.

to what should in each case be a proper charge, but that it
would simply provide the means by which such rates should be
ascertained and enforced.
It has been adjudged by this court in numerous instances
that the legislature of a State has the power to prescribe the
charges of a railroad company for the carriage of persons and
merchandise within its limits, in the absence of any provision
in the charter of the company constituting a contract vesting
in it authority over those matters, subject to the limitation
that the carriage is not required without reward, or upon conditions amounting to the taking of property for public use
without just compensation; and that what is done does not
amount to a regulation of foreign or interstate commerce.
Stone v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307, 325,
331; .Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S.680. The incorporation of
the company, by which numerous parties are permitted to act
as a single body for the purposes of its creation, or as Chief
Justice Marshall expresses it, by which "the character and
properties of individuality" are bestowed "on a collective and
changing body of men," Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet.
514, 562; the grant to it of special privileges to carry out the
object of its incorporation, particularly the authority to exercise
the State's right of eminent domain that it may appropriate
needed property, - a right which can be exercised only for
public purposes; and the obligation, assumed by the acceptance of its charter, to transport all persons and merchandise,
upon like conditions and upon reasonable rates, affect the property and employment with a public use; and where property
is thus affected, the business in which it is used is subject to
legislative control. So long as the use continues, the power of
regulation remains, and the regulation may extend not merely
to provisions for the security of passengers and freight against
accidents, and for the convenience of the public, but also to
prevent extortion by unreasonable charges, and favoritism by
unjust discriminations. This is not a new doctrine but old
doctrine, always asserted whenever property or business is,
by reason of special privileges received from the goverminent,
the better to secure the purposes to which the property is dedi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

cated or devoted, affected with a public use. There have been
differences of opinion among the judges of this court in some
cases as to the circumstances or conditions under which some
kinds of property or business may be properly held to be thus
affected, as in funn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 126, 139, 146;
but none as to the doctrine that when such use exists the
business becomes subject to legislative control in all respects
necessary to protect the public against danger, injustice, and
oppression. In almost every case which has been before this
court, where the power of the State to regulate the rates of
charges of railroad companies for the transportation of persons and freight within its jurisdiction has been under consideration, the question discussed has not been the original
power of the State over subject, but whether that power had
not been, by stipulations of the charter, or other legislation,
amounting to a contract, surrendered to the company, or been
in some manner qualified. It is only upon the latter point that
there have been differences of opinion.
The question then arises whether there is in the 12th section
of the charter of the plaintiff in error a contract that it may
make any charges within the limits there designated. The
first clause would seem to have been framed upon the theory,
which obtained very generally at the date of the charter, that
a railroad was subject, like an ordinary wagon road, to the
use of all persons who were able to place the necessary conveyances upon it. It was then generally supposed that whilst
the company constructing the road was the owner of the roadbed, any one could run cars upon it upon payment of established tolls and following the regulations prescribed for the
management of trains; and some charters granted at that
period contained schedules of charges for such use. But this
notion has long since been abandoned as impracticable. .ake
Superior and 3ississippi .Railroad Co. v. United States, 93
U. S. 442, 446-449. The section grants to the company the
exclusive right of transportation of persons and merchandise
over its road, a right which in another part of the act is
limited to thirty-six years, and then expires unless renewed by
the legislature upon such terms as may be prescribed by law

GEORGIA BANKING CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

and accepted by the company. This period has long since
expired, and we are not informed that any renewal of the
privilege has been made.
The difficulty attending the construction of the clause following this one arises from the doubt attached to the meaning
of the term "provided." The general purpose of a proviso, as
is well known, is to except the clause covered by it from the
general provisions of a statute, or from some provisions of it,
or to qualify the operation of the statute in some particular.
But it is often used in other senses. It is a common practice
in legislative proceedings, on the consideration of bills, for
parties desirous of securing amendments to them, to precede
their proposed amendments with the term "provided," so as
to declare that, notwithstanding existing provisions, the one
thus expressed is to prevail, thus having no greater signification than would be attached to the conjunction "but" or
"and" in the same place, and simply serving to separate or
distinguish the different paragraphs or sentences. Several
illustrations are given by counsel of the use of the term in
this sense, showing, in such cases, where an amendment has
been made, though the provision following often has no relation to what precedes it.
It does not matter in the present case, whether the term be
construed as imposing a condition on the preceding exclusive
grant to the company of the privilege of transporting passengers and merchandise over its own roads, or be considered
merely as a conjunction to an independent paragraph, declaring a limitation upon the charges which the company may
make. If considered as a condition to the enjoyment of the
exclusive right designated, then the section only provides that,
so long as the maximum of rates specified is not exceeded, the
company or its lessee shall have the exclusive right to carry
passengers and merchandise over its roads. It contains no
stipulation, nor is any implied, as to any future action of the
legislature. If the exclusive right remain undisturbed, there
can be no just ground of complaint that other limitations than
those expressed are placed upon the charges authorized. It
would require much clearer language than this to justify us in

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Counsel for Complainant.

holding that, notwithstanding any altered conditions of the
country in the future, the legislature had, in 1833, contracted
that the company might, for all time, charge rates for transportation of persons and property over its line up to the limits
there designated.
It is conceded that a railroad corporation is a private corporation, though its uses are public, and that a contract embodied in terms in its provisions, or necessarily implied by them,
is within the constitutional clause prohibiting legislation impairing the obligation of contracts. If the charter in this way
provides that the charges, which the company may make for
its services in the transportation of persons and property, shall
be subject only to its own control up to the limit designated,
exemption from legislative interference within that limit will
be maintained. But to effect this result, the exemption must
appear by such clear and unmistakable language that it cannot be reasonably construed consistently with the reservation of the power by the State. There is no such language in
the present case. The contention of the plaintiff in error
therefore fails, and the judgment must be

Affirrned.

LIGGETT AND MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY
v. FINZER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF XE-tUOKY.
No. 39. Argued October 24, 188.-Decided November 5,1888.

On the proofs the court holds: (1) That the complainant was not the first
person to use the design of a star on plug tobacco; (2) that there is no
resemblance between the design of a star as used by the appellee, and
that used by the appellant.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xr. Paul Bakewell for complainant.

