CLARK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

cepted, and by bill of exceptions brought the courts direction
to the clerk of August 29th into the record, and the fact that
the judgment of August 30th was rendered in the absence of
defendant and his counsel.
A writ of error having been subsequently prosecuted to
reverse the judgment, defendant in error moves to dismiss it
for want of jurisdiction.
We cannot hold upon this record the action of the Circuit
Court to have been in abuse of its discretion, and as the judgment as it stands is for $5000 only, the motion to dismiss must
be granted. Ala. Gold 1fe Ins. Go. v. 1richols, 109 U. S.
232; First-at. Bank of Omah v. Redick, 110 U. S. 224:;
T~tompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694.
Vrit of error dismissed.

CLARK v. COMMOIWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
SA
A

.

SAVLE.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF QUARTER SESSIONS OF THE PEACE FOR
THE COUNTY OF ALLEGHANY, STATE

OF PENNSYLVA.NIA.

Nos. 1189,1190. Argued November 5,1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

The petition for a writ of error forms no part of the record of the court
below.
In error to a state court, to review one of its judgments, this court acts
only upon the record of the court below, and, in order to give this court
jurisdiction it is essential that the record should disclose, not only that
the alleged right, privilege or immunity, was set up and claimed in the
court below, but that the decision of that court was against the right so
set up or claimed.
These records do not disclose whether the refusal of the court below to
give the instructions requested amounted to a denial of the claim of the
plaintiff in error to immunity, and the writs of error are therefore
dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

31fr. TV. I. Bird for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

2f&.
brief.

V. D. Porter for defendant in error submitted on his

Mr.. CmEF
court.

JusTicE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

In the first of the above cases, Clark, the plaintiff in error,
was indicted with others in the Court of Quarter Sessions of
Alleghany County, Pennsylvania, on the 29th of June, 1888,
for selling spirituous liquor on Sunday, contrary to the form
of the act of the General Assembly of. Pennsylvania in such
case made and provided, and upon trial was convicted and
sentenced to pay a fine of $200 and to be imprisoned for sixty
days, to take effect on the expiration of the sentence in the
second case here, which was the first below.
In the second case it appears that Clark and others were
also indicted for that they "unlawfully did keep and maintain
a house, room and place where vinous, spirituous, malt and
brewed liquors, and admixtures thereof, were sold by retail,
without having first obtained a license agreeably to law for
that purpose;" and the indictment contained" a further count
that they "unlawfully did sell and offer for sale vinous, spirituous, malt and brewed liquors, and admixtures thereof, without having first obtained a license agreeably to law for that
purpose." Upon this indictment a trial was had, resulting in
the conviction of Clark, and he was sentenced to pay a fine of
$500 and to be imprisoned in the county jail for three months.
Clark then applied in each case to one of the judges of the
Sdpreme Court of Pennsylvania for a writ of error to the
Court of Quarter Sessions, which was denied, and as Clark
could go no farther, the judgments of the latter court may be
considered final for the purposes of the writs of error granted
in these cases.
In the petitions for the writs it is stated that plaintiff in
error was the part owner and captain of a steamboat actually
engaged in navigating the Ohio, Monongahela and Alleghany
rivers as a passenger vessel, and as such duly licensed and enrolled under the laws of the United States, and that petitioner
had complied with all of the laws of the United States in regard

CLARK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

to steam vessels, including the payment of a revenue tax for
the purpose of selling liquor on said steamboat; and it is
averred that by these judgments petitioner is denied "the
rights and privileges secured by the Constitution of the United
States."
These matters are .repeated in the briefs, and it is argued on
behalf of Clark that he was entitled under the commerce
clause of the Constitution to immunity from the laws of Pennsylvania requiring a license for the sale of liquors, and forbidding such sale on Sunday.
The evidence upon which the plaintiff in errqr was convicted is not made a part of the record, nor what it tended to
establish anywhere therein stated. Certain instructions, which
were requested to be given to the jury and which were refused by the Court of Quarter Sessions, appear and seem to
have been asked with the view of raising the question suggested, but whether the action of the court actually involved
the point can only be determined upon a record embracing
sufficient of what passed upon: the trial to show that it necessarily did so. We act only upon the record of the court
below, and, of that record the petitions for the writs of error
form no part. Tfrafteld v. C7afe, 91 U. S. 690. And see
Susquehanna Boom Co. v. West B'anch Boom Co., 110 U. S.
57. It is essential that the record should disclose not only
that the alleged right, privilege, or immunity was specially set
up and claimed in the court below, but that the decision of
that court was against the right so set up or claimed.
In the absence of anything in these records to show that
the instructions requested were based upon evidence and could
have been properly given if Clark were right in his claim of
immunity, we cannot tell whether or not the refusal to give
them amounted to a ruling in denial of such claim.
Tke writs of erro' must be dismissed.

