LOVEJOY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

LOVEJOY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR

TO THE

0rROUrT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 34. Submitted October 18-23, 188.-Decided November 5, 1888.
The act of June 30, 1879, c. 52, ยง 2, prescribing the mode of drawing jurors,
does not repeal ยง 804 of the Revised Statutes, or touch the power of the
court, whenever for any reason the panel of jurors previously summoned
according to law is exhausted, to call in talesmen from the bystanders.
A court of the United States, in submitting a case to the jury, may at its
discretion express its opinion upon the facts, and such an opinion is not
reviewable on error, so long as no rule of law is incorrectly stated, and
all matters of fact are ultimately submitted to the determination of the
jury.

THEm original action was brought by the United States
against Howard S. Lovejoy, Thomas W. Means and others
upon a bond, executed by Lovejoy as principal and by the
other defendants as sureties, conditioned for his faithful discharge of the duties of receiver of public moneys for the district of lands subject to sale at Niobrara in the State of
Nebraska.
The sureties, in their answer, denied their execution of the
bond declared on, and its validity as against them. A general
replication was filed.
When the case came on for trial, the clerk called into the
box seven jurors, who- were upon the regular panel of jurors
for the term, and who, by reason of another jury, composed
of jurors belonging upon that panel, being engaged in deliberating upon another case, and of some of the regular panel
having been previously excused by the court, were the only
ones of the regular panel who could be called to try this case;
and thereupon the court, against the objection and exception
of the defendants, ordered the marshal to call in from the
qualified electors of the State additional persons to serve as
jurors, without having been drawn by the clerk of the court
and a jury commissioner. The marshal having called in such

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

persons accordingly, and both parties having exhausted their
challenges, there were left in the box to try the case nine persons called in as aforesaid, and only three jurors of the regular
panel; and ten of the twelve jurors in the box were residents
of the city of Omaha, where the case was tried. The defendants challenged each of the jurors so called in, for the reason
that they had not been drawn as provided by law, and excepted to the overruling of the challenge and to the ruling of
the court directing them to be sworn to try the case.
. Evidence having been introduced by both parties upon the
question whether the signature of Means was genuine or
forged, the court, of its own motion, instructed the jury as
follows: "As to the signature of Thomas W. Means, I think
you may have some difficulty in finding that it was a forgery.
Of course, it is not my place to express an opinion, or say
whether or not I think it is genuine. All I say is that you
must examine the matter carefully and fully, and weigh all
the testimony that bears upon the subject, and if you can say
that his signature is a forgery it is for you to do so." "It
seems to me, after you take these signatures and compare
them fully, and examine all the testimony that seems to have
any bearing on that question, that you cannot have much difficulty in coming to a correct conclusion." -The defendants
excepted to these instructions.
The jury returned a special verdict, finding, among other
things, that the signature of Means, as well as those of all the
other defendants, was genuine. The court rendered judgment on the verdict, and the defendants sued out this writ of
error.
.r. John X. T Trstor for plaintiffs in error.
.XP. Assistant Attorney General ataury for defendants in
error.
MR. JusTion GiAY, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions presents two questions, neither of
which requires extended discussion.

LOVEJOY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

1. The act of June 30, 1879, c. 52, ยง 2, (21 Stat. 43,) which
provides that (unless the judge orders the names of jurors to
be drawn from the boxes used by the state authorities) all
jurors, "including those summoned during the session of the
court," shall be publicly drawn from a box coiitaining not less
than three hundred names, placed therein by the clerk and a
commissioner appointed for the purpose - while it expressly
repeals certain sections of the Revised Statutes, respecting the
selection, qualifications and oath of jurors - does not touch
the power of the court, whenever, at the time of forming a
jury to try a particular case, the panel of jurors previously
summoned according to law is found for any reason to have
been exhausted, to call in talesmen from the bystanders to
supply the deficiency; and does not, either expressly or by
implication, repeal ยง 804 of the Revised Statutes, by which,
"when, from challenges or otherwise, there is not a petit jury
to determine any civil or criminal cause, the marshal or his
deputy shall, by order of the court in which such defect of
jurors happens, return jurymen from the bystanders sufficient
to complete the panel." 3 Bl. Com. 364, 365; 4 Bl. Com. 354;
United States v. Rose, 6 Fed. Rep. 136; Clawson v. United
States, 114 U. S. 477, 487.
2. It is established by'repeated decisions that a court of the
United States, in submitting a case to the jury, may at its discretion express its opinion upon the facts, and that such an
opinion is not reviewable on error, so long as no rule of law
is incorrectly stated and all matters of fact are ultimately submitted to the determination of the jury. The charge of the
Circuit Court in the present case vas clearly within the rule.
Pucker v. Wheeler, 127 U. S. 85, 93, and cases cited.
Judgment affrmed.

