OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

QUIMBY v. BOYD.
ERROR TO THE SUPIREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 121.

Submitted November 19, 1858. Decided November 26, 1888.

In error to a state court, a Federal question not raised in the court below
will not support this court's jurisdiction.
M[OTION

TO DISMISS OR

AFFIRM.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
Mrb'. George A. Zing for the motion.
No one opposing.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE

FULLEn

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Colorado in affirmance of a judgment rendered on a verdict
in favor of defendants in error in the District Court of El Paso
County, in that State, against plaintiffs in error, for the recovery of a certain lode and mining claim known as the Paymaster
Lode, situated in the Monarch Mining District in Chaffee
County, Colorado, which defendants in error alleged had been
duly located under the mining laws of the United States by
one Shepard, from whom they purchased, and upon which
plaintiffs in error had, as they averred, unlawfully entered.
The errors assigned are that the court erred in holding the
record, to have sufficiently identified the mining claim of
defendants in error; that the record of such claim, "three
hundred feet wide by fifteen hundred feet in length, was valid
without reference to the vein or its relative position to the
boundaries;" that the original location in marking the boundaries of the claim might, in that mining district, "where claims
were limited to one hundred and fifty feet on each side of the
centre of the vein, take thirty-three feet on one side and make

DENNY v. BENNETT.
Syllabus.

up for the deficiency by taking two hundred and sixty-seven
feet on the other side; that the annual labor performed by
defendants in error on their alleged claim for the year 1880
"should not be measured by its actual value when done, but by
a speculative value in advance ;" that judgment should have
been given for plaintiffs in error, and not for defendants in
error.
We do not find that in the trial court or in the Supreme
Court of the State the fact that the claim of plaintiffs below
followed in its length the general course of the vein, or that
the side lines were substantially parallel with, and the end
lines at right angles to, the vein, was drawn in question, and
it is therefore too late to do so here as the basis of jurisdiction,
and in our view the other alleged errors involved questions
either of fact or of state and not of Federal law.
The rnotion to dismiss the writ of erroris therefore sustained.

DENNY v. BENNETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF AMnNESOTA.
No. 67. Argued and submitted November 8,185. -D ecided November 26, 1888.

The act of the legislature of Minnesota of March 7, 1881, c. 148, entitled
"An Act to prevent debtors from giving preference to creditors, and to
secure the equal distribution of the property of debtors among their creditors, and for the release of debts against debtors," which provides that,
whenever the property of a debtor is seized by an attachment or execution against him, he may make an assignment of all his property and
estate, not exempt by law, for the equal benefit of all his creditors who
shall file releases of their debts and claims, and that his property shall be
equitably distributed among such creditors is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, so far as it affects citizens of States other
than Minnesota.
Statutes limiting the right of the creditor to enforce his claims against the
property of the debtor are part of all contracts made after they take
effect, and do not impair the obligation of such contracts.
A clause in an assignment for the benefit of creditors under the Minnesota
Statute of March 7, 1881, directing the payment to the assignor of any

