CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Syllabus.

CAILLAGHAN v. MYERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 71. Argued November 8, 9 1853. -Decided

December 17, 1885.

Although there can be no copyright in the opinions of the judges of a
court, or in the work done by them in their official capacity as judges,
there is no ground of public policy on which a reporter, who prepares a
volume of law reports, of the usual character, can be debarred from
obtaining a copyright for the volume, which will cover the matter which
is the result of his intellectual labor.
He has a right to take such copyright when there is no legislation forbidding him to do so, or directing that the proprietary right which
would exist in him shall pass to the State, or that the copyright shall be
taken out for or in the name'of the State, as the assignee of such right,
even though he is a sworn public officer, with a fixed salary.
The copyright of the volume taken by the reporter, as author, will cover
the parts of the book of which he is the author, although he has no exclusive right in the judicial opinions published.
Such copyright may cover the title-page, the table of cases, the head-notes
or syllabuses, the statements of facts, the arguments of counsel, and the
index, comprehending, also, the order of arrangement of the cases, the
division of the reports into volumes, the numbering and paging of the
volumes, the table of the cases cited in the opinions, and the subdivision
of the index into appropriate condensed titles, involving the distribution
of the subjects of the various head-notes, and cross references.
The three conditions prescribed by the copyright act of February 3, 1831,
c. 16, 4 Stat. 436, namely, the deposit before publication of the printed
copy of the title of the book, the giving of information of the copyright by the insertion of a notice thereof on the title page or the next
page, and the depositing of a copy of the book within three months
after the publication, are conditions precedent to the perfection of the
copyright.
A certified copy, under the hand and seal of the clerk of the District Court of
the United States, in whose office the copy of the title of the book was
deposited, of the record of the same, the certificate bearing date the day
of such deposit, with a memorandum underneath of the fact and date of
the deposit of the work, signed by the same clerk, is sufficientprim facie
evidence not only of the fact and date of the deposit of the title, but of
the fact and date of the deposit of the work; and it will be presumed,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the deposit of the title
was made before publication, and also that where the work purports to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.
have been deposited within three months after the date of the deposit
of the title, it was deposited within three months after publication.
Where the deposit of the title and the deposit of the work purport to have
been made on the same day, it will be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the deposit of the title was made before
publication, and that the deposit of the work was not made prior to
publication.
Where the work purports to have been deposited more than three months
after the deposit of the title, it will not be presumed that the deposit of
the work was made within three months after publication.
The case distinguished from 3Ieorell v. Tice, 104 U. S. 557.
The delivery by the reporter, of copies of a volume of reports to the prescribed officer of a State, under a statute, for its use, accompanied by
the payment of the reporter therefor, was a publication of the book, so
as to require the deposit of the work in the clerk's office within three
months after such publication, to make the copyright valid.
Where the copy of the title and the work were deposited in the clerk's
office on the same day the copies were delivered by the reporter to the
State, it will be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
that the deposit of the title preceded the publication, and that the delivery of the copies to the State preceded the deposit of the work.
Where the title was deposited in 1867 and the notice printed in the volume
purported to show that the copyright was entered in 1866, the variance
was material.
Where the title was deposited by "E. B. Myers & Chandler," a firm, as proprietors, and the printed notice of entry of copyright in the volume
stated that the copyright was entered by "E. B. Myers," a member of
such firm, the variance was immaterial.
A written transfer of the manuscript of the volume from the reporter to
the person taking out the copyright as proprietor was not necessary,
and parol evidence was competent to show his ownership thereof at the
time of the infringement.
On the evidence, it was held that the plaintiff had not consented to or
acquiesced in the infringement or abandoned his copyright, or been
guilty of laches.
The question of infringement considered and decided in favor of the plaintiff.
It is proper, in an interlocutory decree for an accounting before a master
in a copyright case, to direct that the defendant may be examined in
regard to the subject-matter of the accounting, and may be required to
produce his account books and papers.
Although the bill prays for a forfeiture to the plaintiff, under the statute,
of copies in the possession of the defendant of the infringing volume,
and for their delivery to the plaintiff, yet, if the final decree does not
award any forfeiture, the defendant is not injured by anything done
under such provision of the interlocutory decree; nor can the penalties
given by § 7 of the act of 1831 be enforced in a suit in equity; nor can

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Statement of the Case.
evidence obtained from the defendant through his examination and the
production by him of his books and papers be used against him in any
other suit in which a forfeiture is sought.
The cost of stereotyping a volume is not a proper credit to be allowed to
a defendant; nor is the amount paid to the members of a defendant firm
for their services in the way of salaries, during the time of infringement,
as a part of the expense of conducting its business; nor is the cost of
producing copies of the volume which were not sold; nor is the amount
paid for editorial work in preparing the infringing volume.
It is proper to charge the defendant with his profit on the resale by him
of copies once sold by him, and then repurchased, although he is also
charged with his profit on the original sale of such copies.
The lawful matter in the infringing volume being useless without the unlawful, and it being impossible to separate the profit on the latter from
that on the former, and the volume being sold as a whole, the defendant
is responsible for the consequences, and the plaintiff is entitled to recover the entire profit on the sale of the volume, if he so elects.
In considering exceptions to a master's report in matters of fact, questioning his conclusions in respect to the amount of the defendant's profits,
those conclusions, depending on the weighing of conflicting testimony,
will not be set aside or modified, unless there clearly appears to have
been error or mistake on his part.

TnE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, on the 17th
of December, 1877, by Eugene B. Myers against Bernard Cal]aghan, Andrew Callaghan, Andrew P. Callaghan, and Sheldon A. Clark, composing the firm of Callaghan & Co., Marshall
D. Ewell, and Van Buren Denslow.
The bill sets forth that the firm of E. B. Myers & Chandler,
composed of the plaintiff and Horace P. Chandler, became the
proprietors of volumes 32 to 38, both inclusive, of the reports
of the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, known as "Illinois Reports," prepared by Norman L. Freeman; that, as such
proprietors, said firm, desiring to secure a copyright for the
several volumes, under the statutes of the United States,
deposited in the office of the clerk of the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, before publication, a printed copy of the title of the several volumes;
and that they afterwards, and within three months of the publication of the volume, deposited in said office a copy of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

work. The dates of the deposit of the titles of the several
volumes were as follows: Volume 32, August 12, 1865; 33,
April 21, 1866; 34, October 23, 1866; 35, January 28, 1867;
36, October 11, 1867; 37, December 31, 1866; 38, August 22,
1867. The alleged dates of the deposit in said office of a
copy of the several volumes were as follows: Volume 32,
January 17, 1866; 33, June 8, 1866; 34, October 23, 1866;
35, March 5, 1867; 36, November 13, 1867; 37, January 28,
1867; 38, October 10, 1867.
The bill also alleges that the plaintiff became the proprietor
of volumes 39 to 46, both inclusive, of the reports of the
Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, known as "Illinois
Reports," prepared by Norman L. Freeman; that, as such
proprietor, he, desiring to secure a copyright for the several
volumes under the statutes of the United States, deposited in
the office of the clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, before publication,
a printed copy of the title of the several volumes; and that he
afterwards, and within three months of the publication of the
volume, deposited in said office a copy of the work. The dates
of the deposit of the titles of the several volumes were as
follows: Volume 39, June 10, 1868; 40, September 18, 1868;
41, December 22, 1868; 42, May 21, 1869; 43, June 21, 1869;
44, September 2, 1869 ; 45, October 6, 1869; 46, October 14,
1869. The alleged dates of the deposit in said office of a copy
of the several volumes were as follows: Volume 39, June 12,
1868; 40, November 6, 1868; 41, January 29, 1869; 42, July
7, 1869; 43, July 7, 1869; 44, October 2, 1869; 45, December
8, 1869; 46, December 8, 1869.
The bill further alleges that all the volumes were prepared
by Mr. Freeman, and each contained a large amount of matter
original with him, and a great number of the decisions and
opinions of the Supreme Court of Illinois; that, among other'
original matter, Mr. Freeman prepared for each case a syllabus or head-notes, and for many cases in each volume a statement of the facts of the case; that also in many of them he
copied, or copied and arranged, the instructions ruled upon by
the court below; that he also prepared and inserted, or gave,

CALLAGHAN

v. AI-ERS.

Statement of the Case.

in all or many of them, the stipulations made, or made and
filed, therein, and in many of them he gave the errors assigned;
that he also prepared, for each of them, a table of the cases
cited therein, and a table of the cases decided, and other original
matter, and so arranged said decisions and the matter therein
contained, or the matter in connection with the decisions, as
to make each of the books, or each of the books and the
matter therein contained, convenient and valuable to the
persons using the decisions; that, in respect of volumes 32
to 38, the firm of E. B. Myers & Chandler, and in respect of
volumes 39 to 46, the plaintiff, purchased from Mr. Freeman
all his proprietary rights in the volumes, and paid him a large
consideration therefor, and for his labor and care in preparing
them, and used the labor and matter of Mr. Freeman in publishing the books; that, by the agreements with Mr. Freeman,
the plaintiff and his partner were to have the copyright of
volumes 32 to 38, and the plaintiff the copyright of volumes
39 to 46; that in respect of volumes 32 to 38, the said firm,
and in respect of volumes 39 to 46, the plaintiff, divided the
decisions and the matter accompanying them into volumes,
and divided and arranged each of the volumes into pages;
that the firm published over 1500 copies of each of the volumes 32 to 38, and the plaintiff over 1500 of each of the volumes 39 to 46; that on the 13th of June,, 1868, said Chandler
sold and assigned to the plaintiff, by a written assignment, all
his interest in and to volumes 32 to 38, and the copyrights
thereof ; and that the plaintiff still has the exclusive right to
volumes 32 to 46.
The bill further alleges that, about July, 18711, the plaintiff
reprinted volumes 37 and 38, and, as he made some changes in
the arrangement of their pages, he did, before publication, deposit in the office of the Librarian of Congress a copy of the
printed title of each volume, on the 20th of July, 1877; that
afterwards, on the 28th of July, 1877, and within one month
of the publication thereof, he deposited in said office two
copies of each of the volumes as reprinted.
The bill also alleges, as to all of the volumes, that the plaintiff had the exclusive right to the arrangement of each of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

them, and the exclusive right to publish the head-notes or
syllabuses, and to the arrangement of the pages of the books,
and to the division of the opinions into separate volumes, and
to the table of cases cited and table of cases decided, as published in each of them, and to the arrangement of the decisions, as accompanied with the bead-notes, stipulations, errors
assigned, instructions, table of cases cited, table of cases reported and indexes accompanying the same, and the exclusive
right to all of said works, except to the matter contained in
the opinions of the judges; that the defendants had full
knowledge of the exclusive rights of the plaintiff, and attempted to buy them from him, but refused to pay the price
charged by him, and thereupon proceeded to reprint and publish volumes 32 to 38, and, in doing so, used the decisions of
the Supreme Court of Illinois only as published by the plaintiff, and prepared the volumes from the books of the plaintiff,
and did not procure the matter from original sources, and, in
all of the books, used the works of the plaintiff and copied the
title-pages thereof, and used the division and arrangement of
the plaintiff in the volumes and the paging thereof, and copied
the table of cases cited and the table of cases reported from
each of the books of the plaintiff and also copied from the
same the stipulations, errors assigned, and instructions given
by the court; that, in publishing the statements of the cases
and in preparing the syllabuses, the defendants used the books
of the plaintiff and the changes they made were merely colorable, and were made only for the purpose of avoiding the
claim of the plaintiff; that the books, as printed and published
by the defendants, were all and each merely imitations of the
volumes of the plaintiff, corresponding in number; that all and
each of said republications by the defendants are piracies on
the copyrights of the plaintiff, and the books have been made
by them to take the place of, and, as far as they can, to supersede the books of the plaintiff; that the defendants are selling
them to the persons who would otherwise buy the books of
the plaintiff, to his great damage and loss; that the defendants
threaten to republish volumes 39 to 46; and that the aggregate value of the copyrights of the plaintiff is not less than
$20,000, and his damage is not less than that sum.

CALLAGHAN

v. MYERS.

Statement of the Case.

The bill waives an answer on oath, and prays for an injunction perpetually enjoining the defendants from publishing or
selling, or offering for sale, any of the books, and for a decree
that all of them so published by the defendants are forfeited
to the plaintiff, and that they be delivered to him, and for
an account of all published and sold, and for a decree for
damages.
The members of the firm of Callaghan & Co. put in an
answer to the bill. It sets up that a printed copy of volume
32 was not deposited until more than three months after
publication. It avers that but a small amount of original
matter was prepared by Mr. Freeman for any of the volumes
32 to 46, and that but few statements of cases were prepared
by him, and those few were drawn by him from the opinions
of the court in the cases reported. It denies that he prepared
any tables of cases cited for any of those volumes, and denies
that he so arranged the decisions and matter contained in the
volumes as to make the volumes convenient and of value to
the persons using them. It avers that all matters contained in
the volumes are public and common property, forming part
of the law of the State of Illinois, and as such not susceptible
of copyright, or in any manner literary property, in which
a private citizen can have a monopoly under the act of
Congress regulating the subject of copyright; that whatever
labor, literary or otherwise, was done upon the volumes by
Mr. Freeman, was done in his official capacity as reporter of
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, a public office
then existing under and by virtue of the laws of that State,
and to which Mr. Freeman had been duly appointed; and
that all labor, literary or otherwise, by Mr. Freeman, in his
capacity as official reporter, upon the volumes, was public
and common property, not susceptible of copyright or of
private literary ownership.
The answer admits that the defendants had negotiations
with the plaintiff concerning the purchase of his interest in
volumes 39 to 46, consisting of the stereotype plates and
printed stock of those volumes; that, in such negotiations,
the plaintiff proposed to sell his copyrights in volumes 32 to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

46, but no price or value was ever attached by either party
to such copyrights, and they were always treated as a mere
incident to the proposed sale, and all offers made and received
on either hand were made with reference to such stereotype
plates and printed stock, and it was understood by all parties,
that, if such sale were consummated, the copyrights should
be "thrown in," without additional charge.
The answer also admits, that, in republishing volumes 32
to 38 the defendants have used the opinions of the Supreme
Court of Illinois as published by the plaintiff; but avers that
they have corrected errors in names, citations, and other
matters therein, and denies that they have prepared the
books from those of the plaintiff, or used the work of the
plaintiff, except in so far as plaintiff's books are free to the
use of any and all persons, or have copied his title-pages, or
have used his paging, or have copied his tables of cases cited
or reporte&, or the stipulations, errors assigned, or instructions
given. It avers that the statements of cases and syllabuses
in the volumes as republished by the defendants are wholly
original and entirely different from and unlike those of the
plaintiff, except in the few instances where there is an apparent
resemblance, owing to the fact that those of the defendants
have been drawn from the opinions of the court, and those
of the plaintiff in the same cases appear to have been drawn
from the same source; and that the volumes so republished
by the defendants contain large amounts of new, original,
and valuable matter, prepared expressly for those volumes,
and not contained in any of the volumes of the plaintiff. It
admits that the defendants have under consideration the
republication of volumes 39 to 46. It also avers, that, for
many years before the filing of the bill, the plaintiff had
abandoned volumes 32 to 38; that his stereotype plates and
stock of those volumes were destroyed in October, 1871, and
none of them were ever reproduced by him until about July
or August, 1877, when he reprinted volumes 37 and 38; that,
prior thereto, he had for many years repeatedly announced
that he should never reproduce those volumes; that, more
than a year before the filing of the bill, the defendants noti-

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Statement of the Case.

fled the plaintiff of their intention to republish volumes 32
to 38, and frequently thereafter notified him of such intention,
and publicly announced the same by advertisement, and from
time to time, as such republication progressed, during the
spring and summer of 1877, notified him of the progress of
the work, and, as the volumes appeared from time to time
during the spring and summer of 1877, the plaintiff was
constantly apprised thereof, and at divers times during that
year, and before, the defendants received various propositions
from the plaintiff for an exchange of volumes 32 to 38, so
being republished, for volumes 39 to 46, which the plaintiff
had for sale; that the plaintiff, down to the filing of the bill,
never objected to such republication, but always appeared to
acquiesce therein, and encouraged the defendants to proceed
therewith, and, from his conduct during such period, the
defendants always believed, down to the filing of the bill,
that such republication was being done with his acquiescence
and consent; and that the plaintiff, by his conduct, is estopped
from receiving the relief asked. The answer also denies all
the material allegations of the bill.
Ewell and Denslow each put in an answer, disclaiming all
interest in the publication of any volumes of the reports by
Callaghan & Co., and all interest in such volumes.
Issue was joined and proofs were taken, and, on the 10th of
February, 1881, the Circuit Court entered an interlocutory
decree, finding that the plaintiff was the owner of the copyright or exclusive right of publication of volumes 32 to 38;
and that Callaghan & Co. had violated such copyright by
publishing, offering for sale, and selling copies of said seven
volumes, and Ewell and Denslow by editing the same. The
decree awarded a perpetual injunction against all of the defendants from further publishing or selling, or transferring or
removing any of said books, and ordered a reference to a
master, Henry W. Bishop, to ascertain and report what number of each of the volumes had been printed, and what number sold, and at what prices; and directed that the members
of the firm of Callaghan & Co. might be examined in regard
thereto, and might be required to produce their account books
voL. cxxvm-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

and papers, and that the master ascertain and report what
was the market value of each of the books of the plaintiff
prior to the illegal publication by the defendants, and what
was the actual cost or value of reprinting and binding each of
the volumes, and that, upon the making of the report, the
plaintiff might apply for a further order in regard to the
damages to be allowed to him for the illegal publication and
sale of the volumes. The decree also gave leave to the plaintiff to file a supplemental bill, based on the fact that, since
the filing of the original bill, Callaghan & Co. had proceeded
to publish and sell copies of the books.described in the bill as
volumes 39 and 41 to 46.
The decision of the Circuit Court is reported in 10 Bissell,
139, and 5 Fed. :Rep. 726. The ruling of the court was (1)
that the volumes of reports were the proper subject of a copyright under the act of Congress, for at least what was the
work of the mind and hand of the reporter, namely, the headnotes, and the statements of facts and of the arguments of
counsel, notwithstanding he could have no copyright in the
opinions of the court; (2) that there had been a compliance
with the act of Congress in the procurement of the several
copyrights; (3) that the defendants had, in preparing volumes
32 to 38, used the volumes of the plaintiff so as to interfere
with his copyright; (4) that he had not consented to the publications made by the defendants, or abandoned his rights by
acquiescence, laches, or otherwise.
On the 14th of February, 1881, the plaintiff filed a supplemental bill against the same defendants, reciting the material
allegations of the original bill, and averring that since it was
filed the defendants had published and sold large numbers of
volumes 39 and 41 to 46, and were threatening to publish volume 40; that, in the volumes they had published, they had
used the plaintiff's volumes, and had copied his arrangement
or division into volumes of the matter contained in his volumes, and had copied his whole arrangement of each of them,
and had used each of them to make, and had made, their
books an imitation and copies of his books, and had advertised
and sold their books as the same books as his, and had not

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Statement of the Case.

resorted to the records for the opinions and other matter contained in their books, but had copied the same from his books,
using and copying considerable portions of the original matter
furnished by Mr. Freeman, in some instances copying exactly,
and in others making merely colorable changes; that, before
any of the publications of the defendants were made, the
plaintiff had advertised his books extensively; that the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, as divided by the plaintiff into volumes, had, by reason of what was done by him,
become known by the name which had been applied to the
classification so made by the plaintiff; that such division was
the property of the plaintiff, and was valuable, and was covered and protected by his copyright; that the defendants had
copied the title or name of each of the books; that each of
the books of the defendants was made to supersede and take
the place of one of the books of the plaintiff, of corresponding
number; and that they were being so sold to his great damage.
The supplemental bill waives an answer on oath, and prays
for a perpetual injunction restraining the defendants from
publishing, selling, offering for sale, or removing beyond the
jurisdiction of the court, any of said books, and for a decree
that they pay to the plaintiff all his damages by reason of
such publication and sale.
On the 18th of February, 1881, the members of the firm of
Callaghan & Co. filed a cross-bill in the same court against
Myers, reciting the proceedings on the original bill and the
terms of the interlocutory decree of February 10, 1881. It
averred that the discovery and accounting provided for thereby
were in progress before the master, M r. Bishop; that Bernard Callaghan, one of the firm, had been partially examined
concerning the number of volumes printed by Callaghan &
Co., and on hand, and had already been required to produce before the master, for the examination of Myers and
his counsel, books and papers of Callaghan & Co., relating to
the volumes and the number thereof printed; that such examination was still progressing; that Callaghan & Co. had
in their possession certain copies of volumes 32 to 38, and
Myers claimed that he was entitled to a forfeiture of the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

same and a delivery thereof; that Myers, on the 11th of
February, 1881, brought an action of replevin against Callaghan & Co., to recover those copies; that the writ was in
the hands of the marshal for service; that Myers was igonorant of the precise number and whereabouts of the copies, but
as soon as the examination and discovery then progressing before the master should have disclosed the number and location
of the copies, Myers would instruct the marshal to seize them
under the writ; that Myers was not entitled to any discovery
from Callaghan & Co. in aid of his proceedings for a forfeiture of the copies; that Myers, having taken the decree for
a discovery as to the copies, and having obtained a discovery
thereunder, and having acquiesced in the publication of the
volumes by the defendants, was estopped in equity from
claiming any forfeiture or recovery of any of the copies; and
that such decree, and the examination and discovery before
the master, amounted to a waiver of the forfeiture or recovery by Myers.
The cross-bill waived an answer on oath, and prayed for
a perpetual injunction to restrain Myers from further proceeding with the action of replevin, and from instituting any further action for the forfeiture or recovery from Callaghan &
Co. of any copies of volumes 32 to 38, and for an injunction
to that effect pendente lite.
Myers answered the cross-bill, setting forth the interlocutory
decree made in the original suit, and admitting that he claimed
that the volumes in the possession of Callaghan & Co. became
forfeited to him under the act of Congress, and alleging that
the interlocutory decree did not provide for a discovery or an
accounting, and that he was not seeking any discovery from
Callaghan & Co., for the purpose of aiding him in procuring
the possession of the books; that the volumes were not published by Callaghan & Co. with his knowledge, acquiescence,
or consent; that he claimed the benefit of the forfeiture provided for by § 99 of the act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, 16 Stat.
214 (now § 4964 of the Revised Statutes); and that he had
done nothing to waive or abandon the right given to him by
that statute. A replication was filed to this answer.

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Statement of the Case.

The members of the firm of Callaghan & Co. filed an
answer to the supplemental bill on the 22d of June, 1881.
It admitted that the firm had published and sold volumes 39
and 41 to 46, and denied that in publishing those volumes
they had made any other use of the plaintiff's volumes than
such fair and legitimate use, by way of reference, consultation, and otherwise, as might be made of any previous publication by a succeeding author or compiler treating of the
same subject, and denied that they had copied the plaintiff's
arrangement or division of matter, other than that the cases
reported in the defendants' volumes followed each other in
the same order as in the plaintiff's volumes, and denied that
they had used the plaintiff's volumes to make their books an
imitation or copies of them, or that their books had been
made in imitation of those of the plaintiff. They denied that
they had advertised or sold their books as the same books as
those of the plaintiff, but admitted that they had used the
name "Freeman's Reports" in their catalogues and circulars,
and averred that such use was in accordance with the uniform
usage of law publishers, in indicating volumes of law reports
by the name of the original reporter, and with no intention
of announcing the volumes of the defendants as those of the
plaintiff; that, as appeared by their catalogues and circulars,
the defendants, by a note immediately following the words
"Freeman's Reports," directed attention to the fact that the
volumes of the defendants were a different, revised, and reedited edition, and were all re-reported and edited by persons
other than Mr. Freeman, whose names were stated in the
note; that the plaintiff had no property in the name "Freeman's Reports," yet, as soon as the supplemental bill was filed,
the defendants desisted from such use of the words "Freeman's Reports," and had corrected their catalogues and circulars by changing the words "Freeman's Reports" to "fIllnois Reports;" and that, although they had used the words
"Freeman's Reports" in the manner described for several
years prior to the filing of the supplemental bill, the plaintiff
had not objected thereto prior to that time.
The answer admitted that the defendants, in making their

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

books, had taken the opinions of the court from the volumes
as reported by Mr. Freeman, but stated that in all cases they
had carefully compared each of the opinions with the original
opinions of the court, on file or recorded in the respective cases,
and had made frequent corrections therein, to correspond with
the originals; and that, except as to such use of the opinions,
the remaining matter in the volumes of the defendants was
obtained from the original records of the court, and was
arranged, reported, compiled, and edited wholly by the original
labor of the editors employed by the defendants for that purpose, and whose names appeared as such editors on the titlepage and cover of each of the volumes of the defendants. It
also averred that the titles of the volumes of the defendants
were so different from those claimed by the plaintiff that they
could not be mistaken therefor even by a casual purchaser or
observer; and that the volumes of the defendants were new
and original productions, with new and original tables of cases,
head-notes, statements of facts, abstracts of briefs of counsel,
corrected opinions, foot-notes, and indexes, and were in no manner copies of, or infringements upon, the volumes of the plaintiff. It also averred that the plaintiff could not have, under
the acts of Congress or otherwise, any exclusive right in the
opinions of the court, as published, or in their arrangement
or division, or in the titles of the volumes. The answer also
denied all the material allegations of the supplemental bill.
A replication was filed to this answer.
Ewell and Denslow answered the supplemental bill by an
answer disclaiming all interest in the publication of the volumes named in the supplemental bill, and all interest in those
volumes.
On the 2d of January, 1883, Myers amended his supplemental bill by averring that the defendants had infringed his copyright by reprinting and publishing volume 40. An answer
was put in to such amendment, and a replication to that
answer.
Proofs were taken as to the supplemental bill, and on the 3d
of March, 1884, the court made an interlocutory decree, that
the plaintiff was the owner of the copyright and of the exclu-

CALLAIGHAN v. MYERS.
Statement of the Case.

sive right of publication of volumes 39 to 46; that the defendants had in some particulars infringed said copyrights; and
that the plaintiff recover the profits received or made or accrued
therefrom; and referring it to John I. Bennett, a master, to
report such profits; and directing that the defendants might
be examined in relation thereto, and might be required to produce before the master their books of account and papers relating to the publication and sale of such volumes, and that the
master should report also the damages.
The decision of the court is found in 20 Fed. Rep. 44:1. The
only question considered in the decision was that of infringement. The court held that in some respects in each case the
Freeman volume had been used by the defendants, in the headnotes, the statements of facts, and the arguments of counsel.
On the 17th of April, 1882, the master, Mr. Bishop, reported
that the defendants had printed 4313 of volumes 32 to 38,
and had sold 2909 of the same, the amount of the sales of the
several volumes being as follows: Volume 32, $1990.91; 33,
$1971.73; 34, $1884.24; 35, $1945.09; 36, $1933.47; 37,
$1878.68; 38, $1847.07; being a total of $13,451.19, and an
average of $4.62 , per volume. He stated that no testimony
had been offered as to the market value of the volumes before
publication by the defendants. He also reported thie cost or
value of reprinting and binding the several volumes to be as
follows: Volume 32, $942.88; 33, $782.35; 34, $664.13; 35,
$843.50; 36, $835.97; 37, $773.18; 38, $885.78; making a
total of $5727.79, not including the item of proof-reading or
the item of expense of selling, or a charge for stereotyping.
The defendants excepted to this report because the master had
not allowed to the defendants the amount paid by them for
proof-reading and editorial work on the volumes, or for stereotyping. The court, on a hearing on the report and exceptions,
referred the cause back to the master, Mr. Bishop, to ascertain
and report, on the evidence given and on further evidence, the
total amount of the damages sustained by the plaintiff in consequence of the illegal publication and sale.
Mr. Bishop made a second report, on the 2d of February,
1884, on the previous proofs and on new testimony. He

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

again reported the total number of .copies printed of volumes
32 to 38 to have been 4313, and the total number of themn
sold to have been 2909. He reported the amount of sales, as
before, by items, making a total of $13,451.19, and an average
of $4.62 - per volume. Excluding charges for stereotyping,
counsel fees, editorial work, and proof-reading, and including
194 per cent of the gross sales as a legitimate item of expense
in conducting the business of the defendants in the course of
the publications, he reported the cost of reprinting and binding the several volumes to have been as follows: Volume 32,
$1064.25; 33, $883.06; 34, $749.63; 35, $952.10; 36, $943.59;
37, $872.70; 38, $999.81; making the total cost of reprinting,
binding, and disposing of the volumes, $6465.14. Deducting
that from the $13,451.19 left a balance of $6986.05, which he
reported as the damages sustained by the plaintiff by reason
of the illegal sale and publication.,
The plaintiff filed sundry exceptions to the second report of
Mir. Bishop, and the defendants filed three exceptions to it.
The first exception of the defendants was, that the master had
not allowed them credit for the cost of stereotyping; the
second, that he had not allowed, as part of the expenses of
conducting the business of the defendants, salaries paid to
them for their services, the same amounting to about $12,000
a year; the third, that he had allowed to them only 14 per
cent of their gross sales as expenses incurred in effecting such
sales, and had not allowed the salaries as a part of such expenses, whereas he should have allowed credit to them, on
account of such expenses, for such additional percentage, over
and above 194 per cent, as the amount of such annual salaries
bore to the gross annual sales during the period in qjuestion.
On the 24th of October, 1884, the master, Mr. Bennett, fied
his report, finding that the defendants had disposed of 2292
copies of volumes 39 to 46. lIe stated that the plaintiff
claimed that 156 more volumes had been sold, making 2448 in
all. The 156 volumes were volumes which, after being origi-"
nally sold by the- defendants, had again come to their hands,
and been resold once or oftener. The master disallowed these
resales, but reported that, if they were to be allowed, the sum

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Statement of the Case.

of $696.38 should be added as daniages for such resales. He
reported the average sale price of the volumes, received by
the defendants, to have been $4.461, making a total sale price
of $10,231.48. He reported that the cost of all the volumes
sold was $41679.55; that the defendants were entitled to a
credit of $1118.49, on account of the general expenses of
conducting their business, being 12 per cent of their gross
sales; that the total cost of producing the volumes sold was
$5798.04; and that, deducting that amount from the $10,231.48, left $4433.44 as the total amount of net receipts from sales,
or damages to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff excepted, by his first and second exceptions, to
the disallowance in respect of the 156 copies resold, and filed
other exceptions. The defendants filed exceptions in regard to
the number of volumes sold, the number of volumes on hand,
the average price of the sales, the total gross receipts from the
sales, the cost of the volumes sold, the amount of the credit
for general expenses of conducting their business, the net
receipts from the sales, the refusal of the master to allow
them credit for the cost of producing the volumes unsold and
remaining on hand, or credit for the sum expended by them
for editorial work in preparing the volumes, or credit for the
amount expended by them in stereotyping the volumes, or
credit for the amount paid them as compensation for their
services, or credit on account of sundry other matters.
The court, on a hearing on the reports of the masters and
the exceptions thereto, sustained the first and second exceptions of the plaintiff to the report of the master, Arr. Bennett,
and overruled all the other exceptions of both parties to both
of the reports.
On the 9th of July, 1885, a final decree was entered, adjudging that the plaintiff recover $340.70, as profits on the
resales of the 156 volumes, in addition to the $4433.4A reported
by the master, Mr. Bennett, and the $6986.05 reported by the
master, Mr. Bishop, the three sums amounting to $11,760.19,
and the costs of the suit. The decree granted a perpetual injunction as to volumes 32 to 46. It also restrained the defendants from selling or disposing of the stereotype plates of those

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argunent for Appellants.

volumes; and dismissed the bill as to Denslow and Ewell,
without costs. It further adjudged that the right of the
plaintiff to recover the additional sum of $896.19, as claimed
by the plaintiff and referred to in the second report of the
master, Mr. Bishop, in case the cost of composition and presswork should be ratably distributed over the whole edition
printed of volumes 32 to 38, and also the rights of all parties
under the cross-bill, and the rights of all parties to the said
action of replevin for the unsold copies of volumes 32 to 38, be
reserved for determination on the hearing of the cross-bill.
The report of the decision of the Circuit Court on the exceptions to the reports of the masters is found in 24 Fed.
Rep. 636.
From such final decree, the defendants composing the firm
of Callaghan & Co. have appealed to this court.
X.r. J. L. High for appellants.
I. Law reports are public property; are not susceptible of
private ownership; and are not the subject of copyright under
the act of Congress.
The framers of the Constitution plainly had in view the
necessity of affording protection to the literary productions of
private authors, and never intended that by virtue of such
legislation a public officer could claim private dominion and
ownership, or assert a monopoly in the result of his official
labors, for which he was. employed and paid by the State.
Mr. Freeman, in the preparation of his reports, was not an
author within the meaning of this Constitutional provision.
It was decided by this court in Wrheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet.
591, and is now universally conceded, that the opinions of the
judges are public property, and not the subject of copyright
by the reporter. This necessarily results from the relation
sustained by the judges toward the people, they being public
officers employed and paid to render a purely public service.
The result of the labors of the judges is, therefore, the property
of the people by whom and for whom they are employed;
and if any such element of literary property attaches to their
labors as to render them susceptible of copyright, the people

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Argument for Appellants.

alone are entitled to such copyright. In like manner the reporter being a public servant or agent, the product of his
labor is likewise the property of the people; and if copyrighted
at all, it can only be done in the name of, and for the benefit
of the people.
The case of Theatoa v. Peters has been supposed to recognize the right of an official reporter to literary property in his
work. -Whether the court in Ineatonr v. Peters intended to
decide that Mr. Wheaton was entitled to a copyright in his
reports, is not easily determined. The opinion itself contains
no allusion to this point; and the case was remanded to determine whether there had been a compliance with the statutory
provisions requisite to a valid copyright, such as the publication of the notice required by the act of Congress of 1790,
and the delivery of a copy of the book to the Secretary of
State. A dictum of Mr. Justice Story, (who was a member
of the court when Whkeaton v. Peters was decided,) in Gray
v. Russell, 1 Story, 11, may be cited as affording some ground
for believing that the judgment in Wheaton v. Peters was intended as a recognition of the reporter's right to a copyright.
On the other hand, we have the contemporaneous testimony
of Mr. Peters himself, in the report of the case, that the court
gave no opinion on the point, and did not consider it when
the case was disposed of. 8 Pet. 618, n. See also Beins v.
Appleton, 4 Blatchford, 125.
There is a series of English decisions, having a strong
bearing, by analogy, upon this question. The publication of
the laws, as such, in England has always been claimed as
an attribute of sovereignty, and the exclusive right to publish
them was formerly granted by letters patent from the crown.
These patents were granted at an early date. In the Company of Stationers v. Seymour, 1 Mod. 256, decided in 1677,
the court say: "And particularly the sole printing of law
books has been formerly granted in other reigns. .
Queen Elizabeth, King James and King Charles the First
granted such patents as these, and the law has great respect
to common usage." The early English cases under these letters patent afford strong support for the position that the laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

are not private property, and are not susceptible of private
ownership, the right to their publication resting in the sovereign. See The Stationers v. The Patentees about the printing
of Bolls' Abridgment, Carter, 89; S. C. Bac. Abridg. tit. Prerogative, F. 5 ; 3fillar v. Taylor, 4 Burrow, 2304, 2383 ; Baasket
v. University of Cambridge, 1 W. B. 105; .3fanners v. Blair,
3 Bligh (N. S.), 391.
Whether the theory of the royal prerogative, or of a private
property in the crown be accepted, in either event the sole
right of publication is recognized in the sovereign, and in
either event the analogy is equally striking in the case at bar.
If the right of publishing the laws in England pertained to
the sovereign power, then a fortiori does it pertain to the
sovereignty here; that is to the public, to the people, or to
their government, and no element of private literary property
can attach to such publications. And if, as in this case, appellants as private citizens are asserting the right to publish the
laws of the State, the State alone can complain.
It is true that while publishing volumes 32 to 46 the reporter
received no direct salary from the State. Under provisions of
law, the State purchased of him a large number of copies of
those volumes at a price affording a large profit on each,
which was equivalent to a salary. But it is confidently submitted that the nature of the reporter's functions, and the
question of copyright in his reports, are wholly independent
of the method by which he receives compensation for his services, or whether, indeed, he is compensated at all. Private
citizens are frequently designated to the performance of public
duties, without compensation, and in the performance of such
duties they may, and do, make written reports of their proceedings for the benefit of the State. It has never yet been
asserted that such reports are the private literary property of
the persons by whom they are made. The sole test in determining the right of private dominion and ownership in literary
productions is, whether the writer is engaged in a private enterprise, and therefore an author within the meaning of the Constitution, or whether he is engaged in a public service, which
dedicates the result of his labors to the public.

CALLAGIAN v. MIYERS.
Argument for Appellants.

The doctrine of exclusive literary ownership in law reports
contended for by appellee is also contrary to public policy.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois are part of the
law of the land. The reports of those decisions by the official reporter are made by statute evidence of the law. They
are, therefore, publications of the laws of the State, in like
manner as are the published statutes and acts of the legislature.
II. The appellee is not entitled to relief, because of noncompliance with the conditions of the act of February 3,
1831, 4 Stat. 436, which were in force when the original
editions of volumes 32 to 46 were published. The second
error assigned is based upon the entire failure of appellee to
prove any date of publication of any of the volumes, the
absence of any competent proof as to the date of depositing
any of the volumes with the clerk of the District Court, the
failure to prove that the printed title was filed with the clerk
in advance of publication, and the failure to prove the deposit
of the printed volumes within three months after publication.
The third assignment of error specially challenges the proof
admitted by the Circuit Court, as to the date of the deposit
of the printed volumes with the clerk. The only proof offered
by appellee upon this point consists of a mere memorandum at
the bottom of each of the clerk's certificates concerning the
filing of the printed title. The memorandum as to the alleged
deposit of volume 32 may be taken as a sample of them all.
It appears at the bottom of the certificate, following the signature and official seal of the clerk, certifying the transcript of
his record as to the filing of the printed title, and is in these
words: "Work deposited Jany. 11, 1866, Win. H. Bradley,
Clk." There is no certificate by the clerk that the book was
deposited on that or any other day, and indeed, under the act
of Congress of 1831, such a certificate by the clerk would have
been wholly gratuitous, and would have afforded no competent
proof as to the fact in question. The memorandum is not
attested by the official seal of the clerk, nor was any proof
offered as to the genuineness of the signature purporting to be
that of the clerk. Even if this signature had been proven to
be that of the clerk, the memorandum would still have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

incompetent, being at the most a mere letter or written statement by the clerk, with no opportunity afforded to appellants
for cross-examination. To the introduction of these memoranda we objected, upon the ground that they constituted no
part of the clerk's certificates, but were merely anonymous
statements, without proof as to when, or by whom they were
made, and that they were, therefore, wholly incompetent to
show the date of the deposit of the volumes. Our objection
was overruled, and exception was duly taken.
The f6urth and fifth assignments of error relate to the
refusal of the Circuit Court to admit the testimony offered by
appellants as to the date of the publication of these volumes,
showing conclusively that, as to them, appellee failed to comply with the conditions of the act of Congress.
The sixth assignment of error pertains to the relief granted
as to volumes 35 and 36. By the clerk's certificate, offered by
appellee as to volume 35, it appears that the printed title was
deposited with the clerk of the District Court, January 28,
1867. The act of Congress then in force, like the present
statute, required a notice of the entry of the copyright to be
printed, either on the title-page of the volume, when published, or on the succeeding page. The printed notice, which
appears on the back of the title-page of volume 35 of the
original edition as published, purports to show its entry in the
year 1866, being in the following words: "Entered according
to act of Congress in the year 1866." There is, therefore, a
variance of a year in the filing of the title, as shown by the
clerk's certificate, and in the announcement of the fact, as
shown in the printed notice on the reverse of the title-page.
As to volume 36, the clerk's certificate shows that the printed
title was filed by E. B. Myers and Chandler, while the printed
notice on the reverse of the title-page of the volume as published purports to show that the entry was made by E. B.
Myers alone. These departures from a compliance with the
requirements of the statute are fatal. The uniform current
of authority, both English and American, is that the conditions imposed by the statute are indispensable to the creation
of a copyright, and that a strict performance of these condi-

CALLA.GHAN v. MqYERS.
Argument for Appellants.

tions is absolutely necessary to the existence of any literary
property in the published work, and of any right of action
for an infringement. IFteaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591; Merrell
v. Tice, 104 U. S. 557; Iu'ray v. Bogue, 1 Drewry, 353;
Jollie v. Jaques,1 Blatchford, 618; Baker v. Taylor, 2 Blatchford, 82; Struve v. Schwedler, 4 Blatchford, 23; Parkinson v.
Laselle, 3 Sawyer, 330.
The learned judge of the Circuit Court, in passing upon
these objections gave as his reason for refusing to follow the
general current of authority on this point, that there was still
an inherent or natural property right in the author. This
theory no longer prevails in the courts, and the author must
look only to the statute for his protection, and must show a
strict compliance with all its requirements. Tested by ordinary rules of property, and by ordinary standards of right and
wrong, the "natural property theory" is well founded and
should receive the sanction of the courts. It was so held in
the great case of .lillarv. Taylor, 4 Burrow, 2303, in 1769, and
the opinion of Lord Mansfield in that case remains as a most
masterly exposition of the natural right of the author to his
literary product, independent of the statute of Anne. But
in the case of Donaldsons v. Beeket, 4 Burrow, 2408, decided in
1774, the House of Lords overruled the doctrine of Xillar v.
Taylor, five of the law lords being of the opinion that the
statute of Anne did not deprive the author of his common law
right, while six held that the common law right, after publication, was taken away by the statute, and that the author must
look to the statute alone for protection. It is a well-known
historical fact that Lord Mansfield refrained from voting upon
the question in the House of Lords from motives of delicacy,
and that his vote, if given, would have left the law lords
equally divided upon this question, thereby affirming the doctrine of .Millar v. Taylor. Upon this slender margin, therefore, the doctrine was established by the House of Lords, that
the natural property right of the author, after publication, is
wholly lost, and that he must look to the statute alone for
protection. This doctrine has ever since remained unshaken in
England, and it received the express sanction of this court in

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

TWeaton v. Peters, and has ever since been followed in this
country. We are, therefore, no longer dealing with abstract
questions of literary property, or with any ethical considerations as to the dominion of the author over the product of his
own brain. We are merely dealing with questions of statutory construction, which have long since been determined by
the highest judicial tribunals of England and America. And
because of the absolute failure of appellee to prove such compliance with the conditions prescribed by the act of 1831, the
decree should be reversed.
III. Appellee wholly failed to prove title to any of the
volumes, as averred in his bill.
IV. The decree should be reversed, because of appellee's
acquiescence in the publication of the volumes, and because of
his laches in seeking relief.
In view of the entire course of conduct on the part of
Myers, embracing not merely a tacit acquiescence in the Callaghans' publication, but affirmative aid and active encouragement, until they had embarked a large amount of capital in
their enterprise; and in view of his unpardonable and unaccountable laches and delay for a peribd of many months
before invoking the aid of the court, it is submitted that he is
estopped by his own conduct from the relief sought by his
bill, and that the decree should be reversed. And in support
of this proposition, the attention of the court is directed to
the following authorities: Saunders v. Smith, 3 Mfyl. & Cr.
711; Beard v. Turner, 13 Law Times (N. S.), 746; Lewis v.
Chapman, 3 Beavan, 133; Tinsley v. Lacy, 1 Hem. & Mil.
77; Rundell v. Murray, Jacobs, 311; Hill v. Epley, 31 Penn.
St. 331; Vebb v. Powers, 2 Woodb. & in. 497, 523; Platt
v. Button, 19 Ves. 447; Baily v. Taylor, 1 Tamlyn, 295.
V. The appellants' volumes did not infringe the copyrights of the original editions. The evidence shows that the
syllabuses were prepared from the opinions by independent
work. As regards the statements of fact preceding the opinions of the court, in the Callaghan edition, it is to be observed,
first, that in very many cases they are wholly omitted, for the
reason stated by Mr. Ewell, that the opinions of the court

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Argument for Appellants.

frequently state the facts with sufficient clearness. In other
cases, where any use has been made of Freeman's statements
of fact by appellants' editors, they have simply abridged them,
presenting the result in a clearer and more condensed form.
And the doctrine is well established that an abridgment is not
a piracy. Hawkeworth, v. Newberry, Lofft, 775; Gyles v.
TFilcox, 2 Atk. 141 ; Wilkins v. Aiki, 17 Yes. 422; Folsom
v. Yakrsh, 2 Story, 100, 107; Story's Ex'rs v. Holcombe, 4
McLean, 306; Stowe v. Thomas, 2 Wall. Jr. 547.
But it will be insisted by appellee that we have infringed his
pretended copyrights by taking the opinions of the judges
from his volumes, instead of from. the records of the court.
It is sufficient to say that there can be no copyright in the
labors of the judges. Trheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591; Gray
v. Russell, 1 Story, 11.
If it be claimed that the appellee is entitled to the exclusive
right to the arrangement of each of his volumes, to the division of opinions into separate volumes, to the arrangement
of the decisions as accompanied with the head-notes, etc., and
to the arrangement of the pages of his volume, we answer
that such an arrangement is as old as the system of lawreporting, and that a claim of literary property in it is idle.
As regards the division of the cases into volumes, and the
order in which the cases follow each other in the several volumes, the most casual inspection of the Freeman edition
discloses an entire absence of method in such division and
arrangement, plainly demonstrating that chance, and chance
only, governed in selecting the cases for the different volumes,
as well as in determining their relative position in the several
volumes.
The paging of the Freeman edition is equally wanting in
any element of literary property, originality or exclusive
ownership. Ever since the invention of printing, books have
been paged in numerical order, and appellee might with equal
propriety claim an exclusive property in the system of Arabic
numerals as in the paging of his books. Moreover, the printed
paging is merely the mechanical labor of the printer, and is
never performed by the author or publisher.
VOL. Cxxvm-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

The claim of copyright in the title to the Freeman volumes
may be dismissed with two suggestions: (1) We have not
copied the title of the Freeman edition. An examination of
the title-pages of each of appellants' volumes will show that
they are totally different from those of the corresponding
Freeman volumes. (2) The title of a published work is not
the subject of copyright, being a mere appendage or description which is not within the meaning of the act of Congress.
Jollie v. Jaques, 1 Blatchford, 618; Osgood v. Allen, 1 Holmes,
185; Drone on Copyright, 145.
VI. Appellants were compelled to make discovery in aid of
the forfeiture sought by appellee.
By a uniform current of authority, English and American,
the doctrine is too firmly established to be longer challenged,
that equity will never compel a discovery in aid of penalties
or forfeitures, unless the right to such penalties or forfeitures
is waived by the person, seeking the discovery. Story's Equity
Pleadings, §§ 521, 575, and 576; Story's Equity Jurisprudence, § 1494; Mitford's Equity Pleadings, pp. 186, 193 to
198; Wigram on Discovery, pp. 62, 150 and 195; 1 Daniell
Oh. Pr. 563; Drone on Copyright, 534; United States v. Saline
Bank of Virginia,1 Pet. 100; Atwill v. Ferett,2 Blatchford,
39; Johnson v. Donaldson, 18 Blatchford, 287; S. C. 3 Fed.
Rep. 22; Capman v. Ferry, 12 Fed. Rep. 693; Bird v.
Hardwicke, 1 Vernon, 109, and note; Colburn v. Simms, 2
Hare, 543; Attorney General v. Lucas, 2 Htaxe, 566; Chauncey
v. Talourden, 2 Atk. 392.
VII. The damages were excessive.
(1) The court erred in disallowing credit for stereotyping.
It is not the province of the court upon an accounting of
this nature to reduce the legitimate expenditures incurred by
appellants in producing their volumes to the lowest possible
point, or to exclude any reasonable and proper elements of
expenditure which entered into the production of their books.
The true scope of the inquiry is, what reasonable expenses
were incurred by appellants in the production of their volunaes, in accordance with the usages and customs of the trade
in the art of book-making as then existing. Their books being

CALLAGHXAN v. _MYBRS.
Argument for Appellants.

produced in the usual manner customary in such publications,
and in the same general style and appearance as other law
reports, all legitimate expenditures incurred in such production should be allowed. If the cost of stereotyping is to be
excluded, the court may, with equal propriety, reduce the
cost of paper and binding, since a much cheaper article of
paper and cheaper binding could have been employed, and
still have rendered the books marketable. The true test,
therefore, in measuring the expenditures which should be
allowed to appellants as the cost of producing their volumes,
is such reasonable expenditure as was customary and usual in
the production of like publications during the period in controversy.
(2) Appellants' salaries should have been allowed as part of
the expense of conducting their business.
It is not disputed that the services of appellants were rendered; that they conduced to the success of their business and
to the large sale of these books; that without such services,
other and equally competent men must have been employed
to do the same work, and it is also undisputed in the entire
record, save only in the report of Mr. Bennett, that no profits
were ever divided by the firm. The case is therefore brought
directly within the doctrine of the Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, the only distinction being that in that case
the salaries allowed were paid to the managing officers of an
infringing corporation, instead of to the members of a partnership, as here.
(3) There was error as to the number of copies sold.
(4) There was error as to the selling price of the volumes.
(5) The court erred in distributing the cost of production
over the volumes sold and unsold.
(6) There were no net receipts or profits on sales of volumes
39 to 46.
(7) The court erred in refusing credit to appellants for editorial work on their volumes. Hundreds of cases, as originally reported by Mr. Freeman, contain no statement of facts,
or argument of counsel, the opinion being simply prefaced
with the statement that the facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

The corresponding cases in the Callaghan edition, as edited by
M r. Denslow, contain elaborate statements of facts, and copious
abstracts of the arguments of counsel. Elaborate foot-notes
are also added with references to other cases in Illinois and
elsewhere upon the topic under consideration in the given
case. All this work, it is conceded, was original and independent labor on the part of -Mr. Denslow. It was not copied
from the Freeman edition, and it is not in that edition. The
editorial work thus put upon these volumes includes the proofreading, which is itself an important item, and as necessary to
the production of the manufactured product as are composition, press work or binding. The proofs of a volume of law
reports must be read by a skilful lawyer with some experience
in work of this nature, or the result will be a bungling and
unmarketable production, in fact a mere comedy of errors.
And every objection which is urged against the allowance of
the cost of editorial work and proof-reading may be urged
-with equal and even greater propriety against the mere mechanical labor of composition, press work and binding.
(8) As to the 156 copies of resales, the appellants were not
chargeable for them.
When we have once paid the penalty of the original transgression, by the accounting for the first sales, the volumes so
sold are, by virtue of such accounting, freed from the monopoly
of appellee's alleged copyright, and become common property.
The decree for the accounting, in other words, operates precisely as a license to sell upon a fixed royalty. The recovery
for the original sales satisfies the monopoly claimed by appellee under the act of Congress, and forever frees the volumes
from any further claim upon his part. The decree fixing damages for the original sales puts us precisely in the attitude of
purchasers of the volumes in question. They then become our
absolute property, to be sold and resold for all time to come.
When, therefore, appellants account for the original sales of
their edition, repurchase the volumes in the market, and sell
them at second-hand, or when they purchase from appellee
copies of his own edition, or purchase them at second-hand
from other parties, and sell them to their customers, the vol-

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

umes are, by the accounting in the one case and by the purchase in the other, freed from the monopoly of the copyright,
and may be sold and resold without further liability. Perrigo
v. S.paulding, 13 Blatchford, 359; Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall.
453.

Nor is it any answer to say that a resale by appellants of
second-hand copies of their edition is as injurious to appellee
as the original sale, because it supplies a demand that would
otherwise be supplied by him. This argument, if well founded,
would apply with equal force to resales by appellants or by
other persons, of second-hand copies of M[yers' own volumes.
.fAr. George W. Rretzinger for appellee.
MR. JUSTME BLATCHFORD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The volumes of law reports of which the plaintiff claims a
copyright are in the usual form of such works. Each volume
consists of a title-page,.of a statement of the entry of copyright, of a list of the judges composing the court, of a table
of the cases reported in the volume, in alphabetical order, of
a head-note or syllabus to each opinion, with the names of the
respective counsel, and their arguments in some cases, and a
statement of facts, sometimes embodied in the opinion and
sometimes preceding it, and of an index, arranged alphabetically, and consisting substantially of a reproduction of the headnotes. Of this matter, all but the opinions of the court and
what is contained in those opinions is the work of the reporter
and the result of intellectual labor on his part.
The broad proposition is contended for by the defendants,
that these law reports are public property, and are not susceptible of private ownership, and cannot be the subject of
copyright under the legislation of Congress. It is urged that
Mr. Freeman, the reporter, was a public officer, whose office
was created by chapter 29 of the Revised Statutes of Illinois
of 1845, which enacted as follows, in regard to the Supreme
Court and the reporter:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 20. The court shall appoint some person learned in
the law to minute down and make report of all the principal
matters, drawn out at length, with the opinion of the court,
in all such cases as may be tried before the said court; and the
said reporter shall have a right to use the original written
opinion after it shall have been recorded by the clerk.
"SEC. 21. The reporter, before entering upon his duties,
shall be sworn by some one of the justices of the Supreme
Court faithfully to perform the duties of his said office. He
may, for misconduct in office, neglect of duty, incompetency,
or other cause shown, to be entered of record, be removed
from office.
"SEc. 22. It shall be the duty of the reporter to doliver
to the Secretary of State, as soon as convenient after publication, such number of copies of the respective volumes of the
reports of said court as may be necessary to enable the said
secretary to distribute the same in the manner provided in
the following section, together with one hundred copies in
addition, to be deposited in the secretary's office for the use of
the State."
Section 23 provided for the distribution of the volumes by
the Secretary of State, and § 24 provided, that, upon the
delivery of the requisite number of any volume, the Secretary
of State should deliver to the reporter a certificate specifying
the number of copies which had been so delivered, and that
such certificate should entitle the reporter to a warrant drawn
by the auditor of public accounts upon the treasury for an
amount, for those volumes, at the price for which the books
should be sold to individuals, provided the price should not
exceed the ordinary price of law books of the same description, to be determined by the auditor, treasurer and Secretary
of State. These statutory provisions were amended in 1863,
by making the term of office of the reporter six years, and
in 1865 it was enacted that the price of the volumes to be
delivered to the Secretary of State should be $6 each. The
reporter was given a salary, by law, in 1877, of $6000 a year.
It is further contended, that Mr. Freeman, in preparing
the official edition of the reports, was not an author, within

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

the meaning of the act of Congress, and that it was not
intended by that act that he should assert a monopoly in the
result of his official labors.
But, although there can be no copyright in the opinions
of the judges, or in the work done by them in their official
capacity as judges, Banks v. A tnchester, ante, 244, yet there
is no ground of public policy on which a reporter who prepares a volume of law reports, of the character of those in
this case, can, in the absence of a prohibitory statute, be
debarred from obtaining a copyright for the volume, which
will cover the matter which is the result of his intellectual
labor.
In the present case there was no legislation of the State
of Illinois which forbade the obtaining of such a copyright
by Mr. Freeman, or which directed that the proprietary right
which would exist in him should pass to the State of Illinois,
or that the copyright should be taken out for or in the name
of the State, as the assignee of such proprietary right. Even
though a reporter may be a sworn public officer, appointed
by the authority of the government which creates the court
of which he is made the reporter, and even though he may
be paid a fixed salary for his labors, yet, in the absence of
any inhibition forbidding him to take a copyright for that
which is the lawful subject of copyright in him, or reserving
a copyright to the government as the assignee of his work,
he is not deprived of the privilege of taking out a copyright,
which would otherwise exist. There is, in such case, a tacit
assent by the government to his exercising such privilege.
The universal practical construction has been that such right
exists, unless it is affirmatively forbidden or taken away;
and the right has been exercised by numerous reporters, officially appointed, made sworn public officers, and paid a salary
under the governments both of States and of the United
States.
This question was, it is true, not directly adjudged in
It7eaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591. In that case the owners of
the copyrights of Wheaton's Reports of the Supreme Court
of the United States brought a suit in equity against Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Peters for publishing and selling a volume of his Condensed
Reports of the Supreme Court. The bill was dismissed by
the Circuit Court. On an appeal by the plaintiffs to this
court one of the points urged by the defendants was, that
reports of the decisions of this court, published by a reporter
appointed under the authority of an act of Congress, were
not within the provisions of the law for the protection of
copyrights. This court held (1) that the plaintiffs could assert
no common law right to the exclusive privilege of publishing,
but must sustain such right, if at all, under the legislation of
Congress; (2) that under such legislation there must have
been, in order to secure the copyright, a compliance with the
provisions of the statute in regard to the publication in a
newspaper of a copy of the record of the title of the book,
and in regard to the delivery of a copy of it, after publication, to the Secretary of State. The court remanded the case
to the Circuit Court for a trial by a jury, as to whether there
had been a compliance with the above-named requisites of
the act of Congress. In a note by Mr. Peters, at page 618 of
the report of the case, he states that he has been informed
that the court did not consider the point whether reports of
the decisions of the court, published by a reporter appointed
under the authority of an act of Congress, were within the
provisions of the law for the protection of copyrights.
When the suit was brought, Mr. Wheaton had published
the twelve volumes of his copyrighted reports. The allegation of the bill was, that the volume complained of, published
by Mr. Peters, contained all the reports of cases found in
the first volume of Wheaton's Reports. It appears from the
report of the case, and the record in it, that Mr. Wheaton
had published his first volume in 1816, and his twelfth volume
in 1821. From March 3d, 1817, for three years, the reporter
had a salary of $1000 a year, and the same salary from May
15th, 1820, to March 3d, 1826, and for three years from
February 22d, 1827. The decree of this court, providing'
for a trial by a jury, (p. 698,) covered the entire twelve
volumes of Wheaton's Reports.
If this court had been of opinion that there could not have

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

been a lawful copyright in the volumes of Wheaton's :Reports,
it would have been useless to send the case back to the Circuit Court for an inquiry whether the conditions precedent to
the obtaining of a lawful 'opyright, under the act of Congress,
had been complied with, especially in view of the fact that
the opinion of the court concludes (p. 668) with this statement:
"It may be proper to remark that the court are unanimously
of opinion that no reporter has or can have any copyright in
the written opinions delivered by this court; and that the
judges thereof cannot confer on any reporter any such right."
Therefore, the only matter in Wheaton's iReports which could
have been the subject of the copyrights in regard to which
the jury trial was directed, was the matter not embracing the
written opinions of the court, namely, the title-page, table of
cases, head-notes, statements of facts, arguments of counsel,
and index. Such work of the reporter, which may be the
lawful subject of copyright, comprehends also the order of
arrangement of the cases, the division of the reports into volumes, the numbering and paging of the volumes, the table of
the cases cited in the opinions, (where such table is made,) and
the subdivision of the index into appropriate, condensed titles,
involving the distribution of the subjects of the various headnotes, and cross-references, where such exist. A publication
of the mere opinions of the court, in a volume, without more,
would be comparatively valueless to any one.
The case of ITFeatom v. Peters was decided at January
term, 1834. In Gray v. Russell, 1"Story, 11, in 1839, Mr.
Justice Story, in speaking of the question as to how far a
person was at liberty to extract the substance of copyrighted
law reports, says, p. 20: "In the case of Wi~eatonr v. Peters,
8 Peters' R. 591, the same subject was considered very much
at large. It was not doubted by the court that Mr. Peters'
Condensed Reports would have been an infringement of Mr.
Wheaton's copyright, supposing that copyright properly secured under the act, if the opinions of the court had been or
could be the proper subject of the private copyright by Mr.
Wheaton. But it was held, that the opinions of the court,
being published under the authority of Congress, were not the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

proper subject of private copyright.

But it was as little

doubted by the court, that Mr. Wheaton had a copyright in
his own marginal notes, and in the arguments of counsel as
prepared and arranged in his workl
The cause went back to
the Circuit Court for the purpose of further inquiries as to the
fact, whether the requisites of the act of Congress had been
complied with, or not, by Mr. Wheaton. This would have
been wholly useless and nugatory, unless Mr. Wheaton's marginal notes and abstracts of arguments could have been the
subject of a copyright; (for that was the work which could
be the subject of a copyright;) so that if Mr. Peters had violated that right, Mr. Wheaton was entitled to redress." This
seems to us to be a proper view of the decision in Wheaton v.
Peters; and that decision is as applicable where a reporter
receives a compensation or salary from the government, as
where he does not, in the absence of any restriction against
his obtaining a copyright.
In the present case, although Mr. Freeman, during the
period of his preparation of volumes 32 to 46, received no
direct salary from the State, it is contended by the defendants
that he received from the State compensation for his services,
through the purchase by it, under a statute, of copies of his
volume at a stated price of $6 per copy for 553 copies of each
volume, and that this was substantially the payment of a
salary to him by the State. But, as stated before, in the~view
we take of the case, the question of a salary or no salary has
no bearing upon the subject.
The general proposition that the reporter of a volume of
law reports can obtain a copyright for it as an author, and
that such copyright will cover the parts of the book of which
he is the author, although he has no exclusive right in the
judicial opinions published, is supported by authority. Curtis on Copyright, 131, 132; ButterwortA v. Robinson, 5 Yes.
709; Cary v. Longman, 1 East, 358, and note,; 362; _Jfawrnan v. Tegg, 2 Russell, 385, 398, 399; Hodges v. Welsh, 2
Irish Eq. 266, 287; -Lewis v. Fullarton, 2 Beavan, 6; Saunders v. Smith, 3 Mylne & Cr. 711 ; Sweet v. Benning, 16 C. B.
491; Jarroldv. Hffoulkton, 3 Kay & Tohns. 708, 719, 720.

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

It is further contended by the defendants, that the plaintiff
is not entitled to relief in respect to volumes 32 to 46, because
he did not comply with the conditions of the statute concerning copyrights. Those volumes were all of them published
while the act of Congress of February 3, 1831, c. 16, 4 Stat.
436, was in force. The 4th section of that act provided that
no person should be entitled to the benefit of the act, unless
he should, before publication, deposit a printed copy of the
title of the book intended to be copyrighted in the clerk's
office of the District Court of the district wherein the author
or proprietor should reside. The section also required, that
the clerk should record such title forthwith, in a book, in words
prescribed in the section, giving a copy of the title, under the
seal of the court, to the author or proprietor, whenever he
should require the same. It also provided, that the author or
proprietor should, within three months from the publication of
the book, deliver or cause to be delivered a copy of the same
to the clerk of the District Court, and that it should be the
duty of the clerk, at least once in every year, to transmit a
certified list of all such records of copyright, including the
titles so recorded, and the dates of record, and also all the
copies of books deposited in his office, to the Secretary of
State, to be deposited in his office.
Although, under § 6 of the same act, the exclusive right
to the copyright vests upon the recording of the title of the
book, and runs for the prescribed period from that date, and
although the right of action for infringement, under § 6, also
accrues at that time, yet it is quite clear, that, under § 4, in
respect at least to suits brought after three months from the
publication of the book, it must be shown, as a condition
precedent to the right to maintain the suit, that a copy of the
book was delivered to the clerk of the District Court within
three months from the publication.
Section 5 of the same act provides, that no person shall be
entitled to the benefit of the act, unless he shall give information of copyright being secured, by causing to be inserted in
the published copies, on the title-page of the book or the page
immediately following, the words: "Entered according to act

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of Congress, in the year , by A. B., in the clerk's office of
"
the District Court of
Undoubtedly, the three conditions prescribed by the statute,
namely, the deposit before publication of the printed copy of
the title of the book, the giving of information of the copyright by the insertion of the notice on the title-page or the
next page, and the depositing of a copy of the book within
three months after the publication, are conditions precedent
to the perfection of the copyright. Theatom v. Peters, 8 Pet.
591; .ferrell v. Tice, 104 U. S. 557.
It is contended by the defendants that the plaintiff has not
proved the date of the publication of any of the volumes in
question; that the only proof he has offered is in the form of
certificates by the clerk of the District Court, showing the
dates of the filing of the printed titles of the volumes; and
that he has failed to show whether such filing preceded or followed the publication of the volumes.
The record shows that the plaintiff, in respect of volumes
32 to 46, offered in evidence fifteen certificates made by
William I-. Bradley, clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, each of which was
in the following form, except as to the number of the volume,
and its contents, and except that, as to volumes 39 to 43, the
name "Eugene B. Myers," and as to volumes 44 to 46, the
name "E. B. Myers," was substituted for the names "E. B.
Myers & Chandler:"
" UNTED STATES OF AMERICA,

"_Vorthern BDistlict of Illiwis, 88'
"CLERH's OFFICE OF THE DxSTRICT COURT OF THE
"UITED STATES FOR SAID DIsTiCT.
"Be it remembered, that on the 12th day of August, A.D.
1865, E. B. Myers & Chandler, of said district, deposited in
this office the title of a book as follows, to wit: Reports of
cases at law and in chancery argued and determined in the
Supreme Court of Illinois, by Norman L. Freeman, counsellorat-law, volume 32, containing the remainder of the cases

CALLAGHAN v.

YERS.

Opinion of the Court.

decided at the April term, and a part of the cases decided at
the November term, 1863"The right whereof they claim as proprietors, in conformity
with an act of Congress entitled ' An act to amend the several
acts respecting copyrights.'

"Wm. H.' BnADLEY. Clerk.
"NoRTHEriN DISTRICTr OF ILLIOIS, 88:

"I, William H. Bradley, clerk of the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, do hereby
certify the foregoing to be a true copy from the records of
said court in the matter of the entry of a copyright by E. B.
IMyers & Chandler, as the same appears of record in said court
and now remaining in my custody.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed the seal of said court, at my office, in Chicago, this 12th
day of August, A.D. 1865, and of our Independence the 90th
year.
"[L. s.]

"W . H.
"Work deposited Jan'y 17th, 1866.

BnADL Y,

Clerk.

"Wm. H.

BRADLY,

M'k."

The certificates show that the dates of the several deposits
of the titles and of the works were as hereinbefore stated.
The certificate to the copy of the title bears date in each case
the same day as the deposit of the title. In each case, the
memorandum of the deposit of the work was in the same form
as that in regard to volume 32, with the necessary change of
date, except that in regard to volumes 35, 36, 42, 43, and 44,
the memorandum was, "Work deposited in my office," with
the date.
When the certificates were offered in evidence, the defendants objected to the introduction of that portion of each of the
papers, at the bottom thereof, which purported to show the
date when the volume was deposited, on the ground that the
same constituted no part of the certificate, but was a mere
anonymous statement; that it did not appear when or by
whom the same was made; and that the evidence was incom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

petent to show the date of the deposit. The objection was
overruled by the court, and the defendants excepted.
They also objected to the introduction of the paper pertaining to volume 34, on the ground that, even if the memorandum
at the bottom of the paper was competent evidence of the date
when the volume was deposited, the deposit was made at the
same time with the deposit of the printed title-page, namely,
October 23, 1866; that it did not appear that the title-page
was filed in advance of the publication and the work deposited
after publication; and that the paper was, therefore, incompetent as evidence. The objection was overruled by the court,
and the defendants excepted to such ruling.
The defendants also objected to the introduction of the
paper as to volume 35, for the reason that it purported to
show that the title of the volume was deposited on the 28th
of January, 1867, while the printed notice on the back of
the title-page of that volume stated that the copyright was
entered "in the year 1866;" and that, because of such variance, the paper was incompetent as evidence. The objection
was overruled by the court, and the defendants excepted to
the ruling.
These various objections are now urged by the defendants,
and it is contended that the memorandum of the date of the
deposit of the work, written on the certificate, and purporting
to be signed by the clerk, is not in the form of a certificate
by the clerk of the fact and the date of the deposit of the
book, and is not competent proof of such fact or date, and is
not attested by the official seal of the clerk; and that no proof
was offered as to the genuineness of the signature purporting
to be that of the clerk.
The statute makes no provision for the keeping by the
clerk of a record of the deposit of the book with him after
publication. The memorandum of the deposit of the book,
signed in each case by the clerk, appears to have been written,
in each case, on the certified copy, furnished to the proprietor,
by the clerk, of the record of the deposit of the title of the
book. The two things were thus connected together by the
act of the officer whose duty it was to receive both the deposit

CALLAGHAN 'v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the title and the deposit of the book. The paper amounts
to a sufficient certificate by him of the fact and the date of
the deposit of the book. In the absence of evidence to the
contrary, which it was open to the defendants to introduco,
it must be presumed that the deposit of the title was made in
each case before publication, and, also, that in every instance
where the work purports to have been deposited within three
months after the date of the deposit of the title, it was
deposited within three months after publication.
So, also, in the case of volume 34, it must be equally presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the
deposit of the title was made before publication, and that the
deposit of the work, though made on the same day with the
deposit of the title, was not made prior to publication.
In the case of volume 32, however, although it is to be presumed that the title was deposited before publication, yet, as
the work was deposited five months and five days after the
deposit of the title, it cannot be presumed that such deposit of
the work was made within three months after publication.
The evidence therefore fails as to volume 32; but it is sufficient, rinwfacie, as to all the other volumes.
Section 4 of the act of 1831 requires the clerk to give a
copy of the title as deposited and recorded, under the seal of
the court, to the author or proprietor who deposits it whenever he shall require the same. Necessarily, such copy is
sufficient prima facie evidence of the deposit of the title.
Such a copy was given in regard to each of the volumes in
question here. On each of these papers the memorandum of
the fact and of the date of the deposit of the work, signed by
the clerk, was written. The clerk was the officer required to
receive the deposit of the work. He was not required to keep
a record of such deposit; and he was required to transmit the
works so deposited to the Secretary of State, at least once a
year. The memorandum in the present case of the fact and
date of the deposit, purporting to be signed by the clerk, must
be regarded as a sufficient _p Irna facie certificate of such
deposit, and as competent evidence of the fact and of the
date, without further proof of the signature of the clerk, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

being on the same paper with his signature as clerk to the
certificate of the copy of the record of the deposit of the title,
and it being open to the defendants to show that his signature
to the memorandum was not genuine.
We do not think the present case is governed by the decision in .ererell v. Tice, 104 U. S. 557. In that case the librarian of Congress had given a certificate to a copy of the record
of the deposit of the title of the book. On that paper was
written a memorandum in these words: "Two copies of the
above publication deposited" on a date given. This memorandum was not signed by the librarian of Congress. This
court held the memorandum not to be competent as proof of
the deposit of the two copies of the book, on the ground
that it was not a certificate of that fact. We are of opinion
that the memorandum in the present case, purporting to be
signed by the same clerk, is substantially a certificate of the
fact and date of the deposit of the work, written by him on
the same paper with the other certificate; and that it is not
open to the objection which obtained in the case of Jferrell v.
Tice.
The defendants offered in evidence certificates made by the
auditor of public accounts and by the Secretary of State of
the State of Illinois, showing that, on the 2d of October, 1865,
:Mr. Freeman delivered to the Secretary of State, for the use
of the State, 553 copies of volume 32, required by law to be
furnished by the reporter, and, on the 23d of October, 1866,
553 copies of volume 34. The introduction of this evidence
was objected to by the plaintiff, on the ground that the papers
congtituted no evidence of the publication of either of the
volumes, and were incompetent. The objection was sustained
by the court, and the defendants excepted to the ruling. The
exclusion of these papers is assigned as error. The papers
"also show the payment by the State, for each set of the copies,
at the rate of $6per volume. As the delivery of the copies of
volume 32 to the Secretary of State, for the use of the State,
took place on the 2d of October, 1865, and the work was not
deposited in the clerk's office until the 17th of January, 1866,
it is contended that such delivery of the copies to the State

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

was a publication of the volume, and that the deposit of it did
not take place until three months and fifteen days after publication. We think this assignment of error must prevail; that
the evidence offered was competent; that the delivery of the
copies for the use of the State was a publication of the volume ;
that the deposit of the work was not made in time; and that
the copyright of volume 32 therefore fails. But we do not
think the same objection is tenable as to volume 34, although
the 553 copies of that volume were delivered on October 23,
1866, and the title and the work were both of them deposited
on that day. It must be presumed, in the absence of evidence
to the contrary, that the deposit of the title preceded the publication, and that the delivery of the copies to the Secretary
of State preceded the deposit of the work in the clerk's office.
Where the three things are prescribed by the statute to be
done in consecutive order, and all three appear to have been
done on the same day, it will be presumed that the statute
was complied with, leaving the primafacie evidence open to
be rebutted.
In regard to volume 35, the title was deposited January 28,
1867, and the notice printed in the volume purports to show
that the copyright was entered in 1866. The statute required
that each copy of the book should have inserted in it a statement of the year the copyright wds entered. It is sufficient
to say, in answer to this objection, that the variance must be
regarded as immaterial, inasmuch as the statement that the
title was recorded in an earlier year than the actual year,
being conclusive on the person taking the copyright, could
cause no injury to any other person or to the public, because
the copyright would expire in twenty-eight years from the
expiration of the year stated in the notice in the book, and
not in twenty-eight years from the time of the recording of
the title.
In regard to volume 36, it is objected that the certificate
of the clerk shows that the printed title was deposited by
"E. B. Myers & Chandler," and that the printed notice of
the entry of copyright in the volume as published purports
to show that the copyright was entered by E. B. 'Myers alone.
voL. cxxvn--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

We think that, under the circumstances of the case, as the
printed notice contained the name of E. B. Myers, the variance
was immaterial, and that the statute was substantially complied with, particularly*as it is not shown that the defendants
were misled by the variance or induced to do or omit anything
because of it.
It is also urged by the defendants that the court erred in
finding the title to the volumes to be in the plaintiff, because
he failed to prove any written assignment or transfer to him.
from Mr. Freeman as to any of the volumes, or from Chandler
as to his alleged interest in volumes 32 to 38, or to prove any
means through which he derived title to any of the volumes.
By section 4 of the act of 1831 the proprietor of a book, as
well as its author, could obtain a copyright, and provision was
made, in the form of record given in that section, for a claim
by the depositor of the title of the book as its proprietor, and
for the deposit of the copy of the book by the proprietor.
While, after the obtaining of a copyright, a written assignment may be necessary to convey title to it, or a written
license to give a right to reproduce copies of the copyrighted
book, we perceivei no reason why Myers or Myers & Chandler
could not become the owners by parol transfer of whatever
right Mr. Freeman, prior to the taking of the copyright, had
to convey. While the work was in manuscript no written
transfer of such manuscript from Mr. Freeman was necessary,
because the copyright had not yet been taken. Moreover,
the defendants, in all their transactions with the plaintiff,
recognized his title to the copyrights of volumes 32 to 38, as
to which the titles had been deposited by E. B. Myers &
Chandler, and parol evidence that the plaintiff owned the
copyrights of volumes 32 to 46, at the time the infringements
were committed, was introduced without objection, and was
sufficient prima facie evidence until rebutted. If the defendants had objected to this parol evidence the production of the
written assignment from Chandler, set up in the bill, could
have been required.
It is also objected that the plaintiff acquiesced in, consented
to, and ratified the publication of the volumes by the defend-

-

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

ants, and was guilty of laches in bringing his suit. The evidence on this subject is voluminous, and it would not be
profitable, either for the purposes of this case or as a guide
for any other case, to discuss it at length. We are of opinion
that neither of these defences is established; that the plaintiff
did not consent to the republication of the volumes by the
defendants; that he never abandoned his copyrights, or consented to surrender them without consideration, or gave the
defendants cause to understand that he did so or would do
so; that he never acquiesced in any infringement of his copyrights by the defendants; and that he was not guilty of laches
in seeking relief. The defendants recognized his copyrights
in volumes 32 to 38, by offering to purchase them, and there
was considerable negotiation on that subject. This fact is
inconsistent with consent and abandonment, and the other
evidence in the case is inconsistent with any abandonment.
It is also contended by the defendants, that each of the volumes as published by them was a new and independent work,
not copied from that of the plaintiff, but prepared by the
original labor of the editors employed by the defendants.'
While it is admitted that volumes 32 to 38, as published by
the defendants, were, with the exception of the foot-notes,
prepared entirely from the plaintiff's volumes, it is contended
that volumes 39 and 41 to 46 were, with the exceptions of the
opinions of the judges, prepared from the records and files of
the Supreme Court of Illinois. The evidence on the subject
of infringement is very full and minute. It is impossible for
us to discuss it at length, and we must content ourselves with
stating, as a general result, that we concur in the views stated
by Judge Drummond, in his decision in the Circuit Court, in
regard to volumes 32 to 38. He says, (10 Bissell, 139, 147:)
"In considering the question of infringement of the copyright
by the defendants, it must be borne in mind what is the character of the work. They are reports of the decisions of the
Supreme Court of this State, to which no one can have a
copyright; but he may have to the head-notes and statements
of each case, and of the arguments of counsel. These headnotes and statements which have been made are in themselves

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

an abridgment; the one of the opinions of the court, consisting of the principles of law decided, and the other an abstract
of the facts and of the arguments. It shouldalso be stated
that the volumes of the defendants, as edited by those employed by them, are very much condensed, as compared with
Mr. Freeman's reports, and yet the paging of the volumes is
substantially the same throughout, so that the cases in the corresponding volumes appear on the same page. The list of
cases which precedes each report is the same. The defendants
Ewell and Denslow, who were employed by the other defendants to annotate these decisions or reports, both state, upon
examination, that their work was independent of that of Mr.
Freeman; but it appears from the evidence that all the volumes of Mr. Freeman were used in thus editing or annotating; and although it may have been their intention to make
an independent work, it is apparent, from a comparison of
the Freeman volumes and those of the defendants, that the
former were used throughout by the editors employed by
the defendants. It is true that in each volume, perhaps in
the majority of cases, there is the appearance of independent
labor performed by them, without regard to the volumes of
Mfr. Freeman; but yet in every volume it is also apparent
that Mr. Freeman's volumes were used; in some instances
words and sentences copied without change, in others, changed
,only in form; and the conclusion is irresistible, that for a large
portion of th6 work performed in behalf of the defendants,
the editors did not resort to original sources of information,
but obtained that information from the volumes of Mr. Freeman. Undoubtedly, it was- competent for an editor to take
the opinions of the Supreme Court, and possibly from the volumes of Mr. Freeman, and make an independent work; but it
is always attended with great risk for a person to sit down,
and, with the copyrighted volume of law reports before him,
undertake to make an independent report of a case. It is not
difficult to do this, going to the original sources of information, to the decisions of the court, the briefs of counsel, the
records on file in the clerk's office, without regard to the regular volumes of reports. Any one who has tried it can easily

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.

661

Opinion of the Court.

understand the difference between the head-notes of two persons, equally good lawyers, and equally critical in the examination of an opinion, where they are made up independent of
each other; and, bearing in mind this fact, it seems to be be'yond controversy, that 'although in many, and perhaps most
instances, there is a very considerable difference between the
head-notes of the defendants' volumes and those of the plaintiff, the latter have been freely used in the preparation of the
former. I conclude, therefore, that the defendants have, in
the preparation of those volumes, from 32 to 38 inclusive, of
the Illinois Reports, used the volumes of the plaintiff so as to
interfere with his copyright."
So, also, we concur with the conclusions of Judge Drummond in regard to volumes 39 to 46. ie says, (20 Fed. Rep.
441 :) "The present inquiry is limited to what is alleged to be
an infringement by the defendants of volumes 39 to 46, inclusive, of Mr. Freeman's Illinois Reports. Volume 40 seems
never to have been regularly published like the other volumes,
although the evidence of the infringement of the plaintiff's
copyright in that volume is perhaps stronger than that applicable to any of the other volumes named. Upon comparing
parts of each of the volumes, those of the complainant and of
the defendants, one with the other, I think there can be no
doubt that in some respects, in each case, the Freeman volume has been used by the defendants in the head-notes, the
statements of facts, and the arguments of counsel. That is,
there are certain unmistakable indicia,that in every volume
prepared by the defendants they have not confined themselves
solely to the original sources of information, namely, the opinions of the judges, the records, and the arguments of counsel."
lHe also says, (p. 442:) " The fact appears to be, and indeed it
is not a subject of controversy, that in arranging the order
of cases, and in the paging of the different volumes, the Freeman edition has been followed by the defendants; but, while
this is so, I should not feel inclined, merely on that account
and independent of other matters to give a decree to the plaintiff, although it is claimed that the arrangement of the cases
and the paging of the volumes are protected by a copyright.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

Undoubtedly, in some cases, whefe are involved labor, talent,
judgment, the classification and disposition of subjects in a
book entitle it to a copyright. But the arrangement of law
cases and the paging of the book may depend simply on the
will of the printer, of the reporter, or publisher, or the order
in which the cases have been decided, or upon other accidental
circumstances. Here the object on the part of the defendants
seems to have been that there should not be confusion in the
references and examination of cases; but the arrangement of
cases and the paging of the volumes is a labor inconsiderable
in itself, and I regard it, not as an independent matter, but in
connection with other similiarities existing between the two
editions, when I say, taking the whole together, the Freeman
volumes have been used in'editing and publishing the defendants' volumes." It may be added, that one of the most significant evidences of infringement exists frequently in the
defendants' volumes, namely, the copying of errors made by
Mr. Freeman.
The next objection urged is, that the defendants were compelled to produce their books and papers on the accounting
before the master, the plaintiff having sought a forfeiture of
the copies of volumes 32 to 38; and that the defendants were
thereby compelled to produce evidence against themselves, in
aid of such forfeiture.
The original bill prays for a decree that all of the copies
published by the defendants of volumes 32 to 38 be forfeited
to the plaintiff, and that the defendants be required to deliver
the same to him. The supplemental bill contains no such
prayer in regard to volumes 39 and 41 to 46, but contains a
prayer for general relief. The cross-bill and the answer to it
show that Myers brought an action of replevin against Callaghan & Co., to recover as forfeited the copies of the infringing volumes 32 to 38. The final decree shows that the crosssuit was not brought to a hearing with the original suit: On
the contrary, the final decree -reserves for consideration and
determination, on the hearibg of the cross-bill, the rights of
the parties thereunder, and their rights in respect to the action
of replevin to recover possession of the unsold copies of vol-

CALLAGHAN v. MYERS.
Opinion of the Court.

umes 32 to 38.

Although, under the provisions of the inter-

locutory decree in respect to volumes 32 to 38, the defendants
were required to produce their account-books and papers
before the master, and were examined in regard to them, yet
the final decree did not award any forfeiture, and so no
injury has resulted to the defendants by reason of such provision of the interlocutory decree, or by reason of any action
thereunder. Irrespective of this, it is determined by the case
of Stevens v. Gladding, 17 How. 447, that the penalties given
by § 7 of the copyright act of 1831 cannot be enforced in
a suit in equity. The provision of the interlocutory decree
for an examination of the defendants in regard to the subject
of inquiry, and for the production by them of their accountbooks and papers, is the usual provision in an interlocutory
decree in a suit in equity for the infringement of a copyright.
As the forfeiture of the volumes could not be obtained by
this suit, although prayed for in the bill, the evidence was
admissible.
We now come to the question of damages. It is contended
that the Circuit Court erred in disallowing to the defendants
a credit for stereotyping volumes 32 to 46. Both of the
masters refused to allow credit for the cost of stereotyping.
Stereotyping was not a necessary incident of printing and
publishing, as type-setting was. It was resorted to by the
defendants to enable them the more successfully and profitably to infringe, by dispensing with the necessity of resetting
the type for every new edition, and thus reducing the cost of
multiplying copies in the future. The stereotype plates were
made without the consent of the plaintiff, and if credit is
allowed for them the plaintiff is compelled to buy and pay for
them, when they are useless to him, and when he has stereotyped for himself volumes 32 to 46.
It is also contended, that both of the masters erred in disallowing a credit to the defendants for the amount paid to the
different members of their firm for their services, in the way
of salaries, as a part of the expense of conducting their business, being the amount of about $12,000 a year during the
period in controversy. These amounts were drawn by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants under the partnership agreement, as family and
personal expenses. We do not think that the value of the
time of an infringer, or the expense of the living of himself or
his family, while he is engaged in violating the rights of the
plaintiff, is to be allowed to him as a credit, and thus the
plaintiff be compelled to pay the defendant for his time and
expenses while engaged in infringing the copyright. If the
defendants, instead of employing others to do the work, had
chosen to do it themselves, they might as well have made a
charge, and claimed to have been credited for it, of so much
a month or a year for their services in preparing the infringing volumes. Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 139.
The case stands on a different footing from that of the salaries
of the managing officers of a corporation, as in Rubber Conipany v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788.
The defendants also object that the master, Mr. Bennett,
should have found the number of volumes sold by the defendants to have been 103 less, and that the total number of bound
volumes on hand found by him was erroneous, as also was
the total number of volumes found by him to have been on
hand unsold. The exceptions to the master's report in these
respects substantially complain that the master found too
many volumes to have been sold, by 103. We do not perceive any error in the above particulars.
The master, Mr.
Bennett, rightfully excluded a credit for the cost of producing
copies of the volumes which the defendants did not sell.
There were no profits from copies not sold, and, therefore,
there could have been nothing to charge against such profits.
In regard to the exceptions to the report of Mr. Bennett,
that he found the average selling price of the defendants'
volumes to be $4.464 each, instead of $4.34, and that he found
their gross receipts from sales of the infringing volumes to
have been $10,231.48, instead of $9459.37, we are of opinion
that the selling price found and the gross receipts found were
not too high.
We do not concur in the view of the defendants that there
were no net receipts or profits on the sales of volumes 39 to 46,
or in the view that the master, Mr. Bennett, erred in refusing

CALLAGHAN

v.

IYERS.

Opinion of the Court.

credit to the defendants for the amount paid by them for
editorial work in preparing their volumes, or in the view that
the Circuit Court erred in allowing the $340.70 as profits on
the resales of the 156 volumes mentioned in the first and
second exceptions of the plaintiff to the report of the master,
Mr. Bennett.
In regard to the 156 copies, they were volumes which had
been already sold by the defendants, and which, they purchased as second-hand books and resold. The master had
held that, as he had charged the defendants with the profits
on the first sale of these volumes, the profits on their resale
could not be charged against them. The Circuit Court overruled this view and, as we think, properly. The sale of the
volume originally prevented the purchase from the plaintiff of
a lawful volume, and the sale of the same infringing volume
a second time prevented the purchase from the plaintiff of
another lawful volume. The plaintiff was thus twice injured
by the acts of the defendants, and the sales of the second-hand
volumes must be accounted for as if they were first sales.
Birdsell v. Shaliol, 112 U. S. 485, 487, 488.
The Circuit Court held that the master approximated as
nearly as could be done to the true amount, in fixing the selling price at $4.464 per volume. We concur in this view.
In regard to the eighth exception of the defendants to the
report of the master, Mr. Bennett, that he had credited the
defendants, in their expense account, with only 12 per cent
on their gross sales, instead of 17 per cent, the Circuit Court
held that, as Mr. Bennett had allowed 12 per cent and Mr.
Bishop had allowed 12- per cent for such average expenses, and
those conclusions were so nearly alike, the court would allow
their findings in this regard to stand. We concur in this view,
and also in the conclusion of the Circuit Court sustaining the
findings of the two masters as to the average price per volume
at which the defendants sold the volumes.
In regard to the general question of the profits to be
accounted for by the defendants, as to the volumes in question,
the only proper rule to be adopted is to deduct from the selling
price the actual and legitimate manufacturing cost. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

volume contains matter to which a copyright could not properly extend, incorporated with matter proper to be covered
by a copyright, the two necessarily going together when the
volume is sold, as a unit, and it being impossible to separate
the profits on the one from the profits on the other, and the
lawful matter being useless without the unlawful, it is the
defendants who are responsible for having blended the lawful
with the unlawful, and they must abide the consequences, on
the same principle that he who has wropgfully produced a
confusion of goods must alone suffer. As was said by Lord
Eldon, in Mawman v. Tegg, 2 Russell, 385, 391: "If the
parts which have been copied cannot be separated from those
which are original, without destroying the use and value of
the original matter, he who has made an improper use of that
which did not belong to him must suffer the consequences of
so doing. If a man mixes what belongs to him with what
belongs to me, and the mixture be forbidden by the law, he
must again separate them, and he must bear all the mischief
and loss which the separation, may occasion. If an individual
chooses in any work to mix my literary matter with his own,
he must be restrained from publishing the literary matter
which belongs to me; and if the parts of the work cannot be
separated, and if by that means the injunction, which restrained
the publication of my literary matter, prevents also the publication of his own literary matter, he has only himself to
blame." The present is one of those cases in which the value
of the book depends on its completeness and integrity. It is
sold as a book, not as the fragments of a book. In such a
case, as the profits result from the sale of the book as a whole,
the owner of the copyright will be entitled to recover the
entire profits on the sale of the book, if he elects that remedy.
.Flizabet]Av. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 139.
In considering the exceptions of the defendants to the masters' reports in matters of fact, questioning the accuracy of
their conclusions in respect to the amount of the defendants'
profits, we have observed the rule recognized and affirmed in
Tilghman v. Proctor,125 IT. S. 136, 149, that, in dealing with
such exceptions, "the conclusions of the master, depending

KENNEDY v. HAZELTON.
Syllabus.

upon the weighing of conflicting testimony, have every reasonable presumption in their favor, and are not to be set aside or
modified unless there clearly appears to have been error or
mistake on his part."
On the whole case we are of opinion that the final decree
was correct, except in respect of volume 32. The amount of
damages reported by the master, Mr. Bishop, as to that volume,
and allowed by the final decree as part of the $6986.05, was
$926.66. That sum is disallowed and must be deducted.
The other items of recovery in the decree were proper. The
injunction as to volume 32 must be vacated, and the appellee
will recover his costs of this court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed as to volume 32
and is afflrmed in all other respects ; and the case is
remanded to that court,with a directionto cdrrect the decree
in theyartiularsabove indicated,and to take suck further
.'oceedings as may be according to law and not inconsistent with this o6,nion.

KENNEDY v. HAZELTON.
APPEAL

THE CIRCUIT COURT

FROM

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINhOIS.
No. 1081.

Submitted December 3, 1883.-Decided December 17, 1888.

Specific performance cannot be decreed of an agreement to convey property which has no existence, or to which the defendant has no title; and
if the want of title was known to the plaintiff at the time of beginning
the suit, the bill will not be retained for assessment of damages.
One who agrees to assign to another any patents that he may obtain for
improvements in certain machines, and who afterwards invents such an
improvement, and, with intent to evade his agreement and to defraud the
other party, procures a patent for his invention to be obtained upon the
application of a third person, and to be issued to him as assignee of that
person, and receives profits under it, cannot be compelled in equity to
assign the patent or to account for the profits.

