OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

It is well settled that all the parties against whom a judgment of this kind is entered must join in a writ of error, if
any one of them takes out such writ; or else there must be a
proper summons and severance, in order to allow of the prosecution of the writ by any less than the whole number of the
Williams
defendants against whom the judgment is entered.
v. MnOwings
414;
11
Wheat.
v. Bank of the United States,
Co.,
Ins.
Fire
and
Life
v.
of
Wilson,
-Heirs
cannon, T Pet. 399;
Strader,
v.
Smyth
521;
Pet.
16
v.
Daniel,
12 Pet. 140; Todd
12 How. 327; Davenport v. Fletcher,16 How. 142; -Aussinav.
Cavazos, 20 How. 280, 289; Sheldon v. Cliflon, 23 How. 481,
484; . fasterson v. HZerndon, 10 Wall. 416; Hfampton v.
Rouse, 13 Wall. 187; Simpson v. Greeley, 20 Wall. 152;
Feielman v. Packard,108 U. S. 14.
Where there is a substantial defect in a writ of error, which
this court cannot amend, it has no jurisdiction to try the case.
Heirs of Wilson v. Life and Fire _ns. Co., 12 Pet. 140. It
will then, of its own motion, dismiss the case, without awaiting the action of a party. Hfilton v. -Dickinson,108 U. S.
165, 168.
For these reasons the writ of error is dismissed."

UNITED STATES v. KNOX.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF
No. 1209.

O

S.

Submitted November 5,188.-Decided November 19, 1888.

The Court of Claims has jurisdiction to hear and determine a claim of
a commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United States for keeping
a docket and making entries therein in regard to parties charged with
violations of the laws of the United States, which has been duly presented to the Circuit or District Court of the United States through the
district attorney, and which the court has refused to act upon, although
it may not have been presented at the Treasury Department and disallowed there; and the claimant is not obliged to resort to mandamus
upon the Circuit Court for his remedy.

UNITED STATES v. KNOX.
Opinion of the Court.

TnE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard and .Xr. . P.
Dewees for appellant.
.Xr. George A.
MR. JUSTICE

ing for appellee.

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Court of Claims brought by the
United States to reverse a judgment obtained by John F.
Knox, the appellee, for the sum of $196 for services as a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas.
These services were the keeping of a docket and making
entries therein in regard to parties brought before him charged
with violations of the laws of the United States. Two objections were made in the court below, and are reproduced here,
to the claimant's right to recover in the Court of Claims.
The first of these is, that no approval or disapproval of the'
claim was made by the Circuit or District Court. This proposition is founded on the first section of the act of February
22, 1875, 18 Stat. 333, which reads as follows:
"That before any bill of costs shall be taxed by any judge
or other officer, or any account payable out of the money of
the United States shall be allowed by any officer of the Treasury, in favor of clerks, marshals, or district attorneys, the
party claiming such account shall render the same, with the
vouchers and items thereof, to a United States Circuit or District Court, and, in presence of the district attorney or his
sworn assistant, whose presence shall be noted on the record,.
prove in open court, to the satisfaction of the court, by his
own oath or that of other persons having knowledge of the
facts, to be attached to such account, that the services therein
charged have been actually and necessarily performed as
therein stated; and that the disbursements charged have been
fully paid in lawful money; and the court shall thereupon
cause to be entered of record an order approving or disapproving the account, as may be according to law and just.

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

United States commissioners shall forward their accounts,
duly verified by oath, to the district attorneys of their respective districts, by whom they shall be submitted for approval in
open court, and the court shall pass upon the same in the manner aforesaid. Accounts and vouchers of clerks, marshals and
district attorneys shall be made in duplicate, to be marked respectively 'original' and 'duplicate.' And it shall be the duty
of the clerk to forward the original accounts and vouchers
of the officers above specified, when approved, to the proper
accounting officers of the Treasury, and to retain in his office
the duplicates, where they shall be open to public inspection
at all times. Nothing contained in this act shall be deemed
in anywise to diminish or affect the right of revision of the
accounts to which this act applies by the accounting officers
of the Treasury, as exercised under the laws now in force."
It will be observed that this section makes a somewhat different provision as to the course to be pursued by clerks, marshals and district attorneys who have accounts against the
government, and that which is to be taken by United States
commissioners. The former shall render their accounts, with
the vouchers and items thereof, to a United States Circuit or
District Court, and in open court prove them in the presence of
the district attorney or his sworn assistant, whose presence shall
be noted on the record, "and the court shall thereupon cause
to be entered of record an order approving or disapproving
the account, as may be according to law and just." As to
commissioners, it is provided that they "shall forward their
accounts, duly verified by oath, to the district attorneys of
their respective districts, by whom they shall be submitted for
approval in open court, and the court shall pass upon the same
in the manner aforesaid."
The same section also requires "that before any bill of costs
shall be taxed by any judge or other officer, or any account
payable out of the money of the United States shall be allowed
by any officer of the Treasury" in favor of these parties, the
proceedings just stated shall be had. It is also provided that
"nothing contained in this act shall be deemed in anywise to
diminish or affect the right of revision of the accounts to

UNITED STATES v. KNOX.

0

Opinion of the Court.

which this act applies by the accounting officers of the
Treasury, as exercised under the laws now in force."
The findings of fact, made by the court in this case, show
that Knox did keep the docket and render the services charged
in his petition, to the amount of $390, but the Court of Claims
disallowed all but $196 of it, as being barred by the statute of
limitations. That court also finds that the claimant made out
and verified by oath his account of fees for keeping said docket,
and that he sent it to the United States district attorney to be
presented to the court. It further appears by correspondence
between the claimant and the clerk of the court and the district
attorney that the latter offered to present the account to the
judge at Dallas, but that the judge refused to receive or
approve it, suggesting that the district attorney had better
call for the- books and examine them himself, and see if the
account was correct.
Soon after the claimant took his books to Waco, and left
them with the district attorney for examination. That officer
thereafter returned the books to him, and informed him that
the judge would not act upon the account. There is a term
of the District Court held at Dallas and another at Waco for
the Northern District of Texas, and we take this statement of
what occurred to amount to a presentation by the claimant of
his account through the district attorney to the court, and an
absolute refusal by the court to act upon the claim.
Section 846 of the Revised Statutes declares as follows:
"The accounts of district attorneys, clerks, marshals, and commissioners of Circuit Courts shall be examined and certified
by the district judge of the district for which they are appointed, before they are presented to the accounting officers
of the Treasury Department for settlement. They shall then
be subject to revision upon their merits by said accounting
officers, as in case of other public accounts."
It was decided in United States v. Wallace, 116 U. S. 398,
that a United States commissioner who kept a docket, by
direction of the court appointing him, and entered therein the
proceedings in criminal cases heard and decided by him, is
entitled to the same fees allowed to clerks of courts by ยง 828
of the Revised Statutes for the keeping of their dockets.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

It is evident from the language of ยง 846, and that of the act
of 1875, above cited, that the Treasury Department has a right
to require some action by the district attorney and the court
before it will allow or consider a claim in such a case as this.
The second objection made by counsel for the United States
is that the claim should have been presented at the Treasury
Department and have been disallowed by the accounting
officers. This question was considered in Clyde v. United
States, 13 Wall. 38, and we understand the court to have decided in substance that the action of the auditing department,
either in allowing or rejecting such a claim, was not an essential prerequisite to the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to
hear it. In that case it appeared that the Court of Claims
had refused to consider a claim against the United States, presented to it, because the claimant had not complied with a rule
of that court which required that the party should have first gone
to the department which might have entertained it before he
was permitted to proceed in that tribunal. But this court
held that such a rule was "an additional restriction to the
exercise of jurisdiction by that court. It required the claimant
to do what the acts giving the court jurisdiction did not require him to do, before it would assume jurisdiction of his
case." The rule was, therefore, declared to be void, and the
Court of Claims was directed to proceed with the consideration of the case.
The presentation, therefore, of the present case to the officers of the government charged with the auditing of such accounts in the Treasury Department was not necessary to give
the Court of Claims jurisdiction, and it would have been a
useless step because the statute expressly says that the court
shall first "cause to be entered of record an order approving
or disapproving the account, as may be according to law and
just."
No provision is made for a refusal by the court to act upon
a claim, and the most forcible argument now made on behalf
of the government against the right of the Court of Claims to
take jurisdiction of this case is that no such order was made
by the Circuit or District Court, and that the proper remedy

UNITED STATES v. KNOX.
Opinion of the Court.

for the claimant is a proceeding in mandamus to compel the
Circuit Court to act upon the account.
We do not know what may have been the circumstances
which induced that court to decline to act upon this claim,
but we are not prepared to say that such a writ is the proper
remedy for the claimant to resort to here. If there were no
other this might be so, but the attempt to proceed by mandamus would raise the question, always a troublesome one,
whether it is a part of the judicial function to take part in
auditing the accounts against the government, or preparing
them for submission to the auditing officers. But as we feel
well assured that the claimant, who has done everything in
his power to secure action upon his account by the district
attorney and the court, and who has a just claim against the
government for services rendered under the act of Congress,
has a remedy in the Court of Claims, we do not see why he
should be compelled first to resort to a writ of mandamus
against the Circuit Court. This remedy, always an unusual
one and out of the ordinary course of proceeding, would be
attended in the case before us with delay and embarrassment.
It is not by any means so efficient nor so speedy as an action
in the Court of Claims. If he should succeed after trouble,
delay and expense, in procuring action by the local court,
which might be either an approval or a disapproval of his
claim, he would still have to go to the auditing department,
in which the action of the court is only advisory, or he might,
sue in the Court of Claims as shown in the case of Clyde v.
United States, 13 Wall. vbi supyr.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Court of Claims had
jurisdiction of the case, and its judgment is
4Affirined.

