OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

either the whole constitution of the State, or else reports or
records of decisions of its courts, referred to in the answer
and made part thereof.
The certificate is even more irregular and insufficient than
one undertaking to present the question, arising on demurrer
or otherwise, whether an indictment, or a count therein, sets
forth any offence, which this court has constantly held not
to be a proper subject of a certificate of division of opinion.
United States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208; United States v. Northway, 120 U. S. 327.
Writ of errordismissed for want of jurisdiction.

MENENDEZ v. HOLT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 77.

Argued November 14, 1S58.-

Decided December 10, 1888.

A combination of words, made by a firm engaged in mercantile business,
from a foreign language, in order to designate merchandise selected by
them in the exercise of their best judgment as being of a certain standard and of uniformity of quality, may be protected to them and for
their use as a trade-mark, and does not fall within the rule in 2fanufacturing Co. v. Trainer, 101 U. S. 51.
The addition of the infringer's name to a trade-mark in the place of the
owner's does not render the unauthorized use of it any less an infringement.
When a partner retires from a firm, assenting to or acquiescing in the retention by the other partners of the old place of business and the future
conduct of the business by them under the old name, the good-will
remains with the latter as of course.
A trade-mark may be part of the good-will of a firm, and in this case it was
part of the good-will of the appellee's firm.
A person who comes into an existing firm as a partner, and, after remaining there a few years, goes out, leaving the firm to carry on the old line
of business under the same title in which it did business both before he
came in and during the time he was a partner, does not take with him
the right to use the trade-marks of the firm, in the absence of an agreement to that effect.

31ENENDEZ v. HOLT.
Statement of the Case.
The intentional use of another's trade-mark is a fraud; and when the excuse
is that the owner permitted such use, that excuse is disposed of by
affirmative action to put a stop to it, and no estoppel arises.

T E case,

as stated by the court, was as follows -

Appellees, partners in business under the firm name of Holt
& Company, filed their bill of complaint July 17, 1882, against
appellants, engaged in business under the firm name of Jos6
Menendez & Brother, alleging that they were dealers in and
bought and sold flour and grain; that Robert S. Holt had
theretofore been for more than twenty-five years at the head
of the firm of Holt & Company, which firm had from time to
time been changed or dissolved by the retirement of various
members, but in each such instance a new firm had been immediately formed, and succeeded to the firm name, good-will,
brands, trade-marks, and other assets of the preceding firm, so
that there had been no interruption of the name and business
identity of bolt & Company for over twenty-five years, during
which time said firm had had a high reputation in the trade;
that complainants were now legally seized of the good-will
and all the trade-marks ever at any time used by the firm; that
they were the owners of a certain trade-mark for flour, which
consisted of the fanciful words "La Favorita," which was originated by the firm, and had been used by it for more than
twenty years, to distinguish a certain flour of their selection
and preparation; that said firm at all times exercised great
care in the selection, packing and preparation of the flour
packed and sold by them under the said brand, "La Favorita,"
and had carefully advertised the same, and by their care and
efforts extensively introduced it to the trade, so that the said
brand had come to be widely known and sought after by the
trade, and the sale of flour so branded constituted an important part of the firm's business; that the brand was applied
by stencilling it on the barrels; and that it had been duly registered by the firm in pursuance of law. Defendants were
charged with having made use of the brand as a mark for
flour of their own preparation or selection in violation of
complainants' rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

The answer admitted the existence of the trade-mark and
that the defendants had used it, but denied that Holt & Co.
were the owners, and averred that one Stephen 0. Ryder was
a member of Holt & Co. from 1861 to 1868, and had since
used, and was entitled to use, said trade-mark as his own; that
said Ryder put his own name on flour in connection with the
name "La Favorita ;" and that defendants had sold such flour
as the special selection of said Ryder, and not as selected by
complainants.
Evidence was adduced in relation to the connection of
Ryder with the firm of Holt & Co., his retirement therefrom,
and the ownership of the brand thereupon, to establish the
use of the trade-mark by Ryder and others without protest on
complainants' part; also, subject to objection, to show a prior
use of the same as a trade-mark for flour.
It appeared that Holt & Co. deposited fac-shniles of the
trade-mark October 17'th, 1881, in the Patent Office, and that
it was duly registered February 28th, 1882.
The Circuit Court refused an accounting, but held complainants entitled to the exclusive use of the words as a brand or
trade-mark for flour, and that the defendants had infringed the
rights of complainants in the use of the words on flour not
prepared by complainants, and decreed a perpetual injunction.
From that decree this appeal was prosecuted.
X&. Ar'thur v. Biiese for appellants.
I. Is the brand "La Favorita," as used by the complainants, a
trade-mark? We respectfully submit that it is not. It clearly
appears from the proofs that the complainants, who are merely
dealers in flour and not manufacturers, employ a large number
of brands, and have done so for years past, placing the same
upon their different packages of flour as their fancy or judgment might indicate.
The proofs further show that it was the idea of the complainants to place the brand "La Favorita" upon a peculiar
quality of flour, so that said brand did not in itself indicate
ownership, but simply quality, and nothing but quality; the

MENENDEZ v. HOLT.
Argument for Appellants.

term "Miranda," for instance, indicating another quality, or
being at least intended so to do.
The certificate of registration filed in the Patent Office by
complainants (and the proofs also support this certificate) was
to the effect that the complainants used the term "La Favorita"
in connection with the firm name of Holt & Company. The
case, therefore, seems to be on all-fours with the decision of
this court in -ManufacturingCo. v. Trainer, 101 U. S. 51,
which was followed in Wicox & Gibb& Sewing IMachine Co.
v. The Gibberm Frame,17 Fed. Rep. 623; and in The Royal
Baking Powder Co. v. Sherrell, 93 1N. Y. 331.
These decisions seem to dispose of the question under discussion. The term "La Favorita," which at best is descriptive in the same sense as "La Selecta," is admittedly used as a
brand indicating a certain grade of flour; is admittedly used
on flour not of complainants' manufacture. It indicates that
it is the "favorite" brand of Holt & Company, while the other
indicates that it is the "selected" brand of Holt & Company,
the purchaser being intended to learn from these brands that
each covers a certain grade of flour; the "Favorita" being
usually, but not always, milled by stones.
We submit, therefore, that this court will find that the
term "Favorita" being intended to indicate only quality, and
not origin of manufacture, does not constitute a trade-mark in
the sense in which the term trade-mark has by this and other
high tribunals been heretofore defined.
H. Are the complainants the legal owners of the so-called
brand "La Favorita" ? Even assuming, for the sake of argument, that the brand "La Favorita" constitutes a valid trademark, it does not seem that the title alleged in the complaints
has been made out.
HI. But assuming that "La Favorita" is a good trade-mark
and that the firm of Holt & Company, as constituted in 1861,
first adopted it, have the present complainants title to the
exclusive use of said names as a brand on flour superior to the
title of R. S. Holt and S. 0. Ryder? In 1861 Mr. Ryder was
Mr. Holt's and Mr. Searle's partner, under an agreement
which did not provide for the possession of the trade-marks at
the time of dissolution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

That on the dissolution of a partnership, in the absence of
any agreement to the contrary, all partners retain equal rights
in the trade-marks of the firm, see TMeston v. Ketcham, 39
N. Y. Superior Ct. (T Jones & Spencer) 54; Young v. Jones,
3 Hughes, 24; Taylor v. Bothin, 5 Sawyer, 584; HUuer v.
Dannenhoer,82 N. Y. 499; lright v. Simpson, 15 Off. Gaz.
968.
IV. If the appellees own any trade-mark, what is that
trade-mark? and has it been infringed by the appellants?
The defendants' answer states that the "La Favorita" flour
they sold was always accompanied by the name of S. 0.
Ryder, plainly and prominently added to the brand.
Thus one concern sold flour branded, "La Favorita, Holt
& Company," and the other concern sold flour branded, "La
Favorita, S. 0. Ryder." The name of the party selecting the
flour, sold under these brands, was plainly stated by either
party. If, therefore, the allegation of the answer respecting
the use by the defendants of said brand be taken as a qualified admission in the case, this allegation shows that there
was no infringement of the real brand used by the complainants. Beyond that there is no proof in the case at all of any
infringement, because the testimony does not disclose where or
when the firm of Jos6 Menendez & Bro. sold any "La Favorita" flour, or where or when the firm of A. V. Ryder sold
any "La Favorita" flour.. There was clearly, where the
name of S. 0. Ryder was added to the brand, no intention to
palm off the goods of the defendants for those of the complainants; consequently no infringement of that which is of
real value to the complainants, viz.: their firm name in connection with such other marks of grade or quality as they
might choose to brand upon their barrels.
The Amoskeag _Manufacturing Company Cases and The
Rayal Baking Powder Case, heretofore alluded to, seem to be
controlling on this question.
V. In view of their laches, the appellees have no status in
a court of equity. NcLean v. .Fleming,96 U. S. 245; God
den v. immel, 99 IT. S. 201; landsdalev. Srmith, 106 U. S.
391; Gleason v. District of Columbia, 127 U. S. 133; Richards

-MENENDEZ v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183; 8peidel v. IJenrici,120 U. S. 377;
Geaharn v. Bost A &. Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 161; Holgate
v. Eaton, 116 U. S. 33; TollensaT v. Reilher, 115 U. S. 96;
"Piattv. fattier, 9 Pet. 405; Wagner v. Baird,7 How. 234;
Badger v. Badger-, 2 Wall. 87, 94; XfEoaughlin v. People's
Railway, 21 Fed. Rep. 574; Tyeth v. Stone, 1 Story, 273;
Glenn v. Dorskeimer, 24 Fed. Rep. 536.
We feel satisfied that, in the light of these numerous authorities, the question of laches as between the interest of private
litigants is one proper to be raised by defendant, and will
avail him if the charge is proven. 31cLean, v. _Neming seems
to mark the distinction that where the general public is interested as a third party, and where it appears that the public
will be injured by the false representations of the defendant,
the question of laches will be pertinent only so far as complainants' right to an accounting is concerned; the injunction
being, however, granted, not because complainant is in an
equitable position, but because. the public, and the public only,
has to be protected.
In the present case nothing appears to show that the public
interests are at stake. The term "La Favorita" has been so
thoroughly used in competition with the complainants by
numerous manufacturers and dealers in flour, that the public
has been educated - to say the least - to mark the distinction
between goods of different dealers by noting their names on
the packages. The term "La Favorita," without the name of
the dealer, does not inform the public of the origin or ownership of the brand, and of the place where the goods are manufactured or put up. Hence, we believe the court below erred
in allowing an injunction.
-Mr. Rowland Cox for appellees.
lMn. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
A reversal of the decree in this case is asked on the grounds
that the words "La Favorita," as used by the complainants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot be protected as a trade-mark; that there has been no
infringement; that the words had been used as a brand before
being used by Holt & Co.; that the title of Holt & (o. was
not superior to that of S. 0. IRyder; and that whatever rights
complainants may once have had had been forfeited by
laches.
The fact that Holt & Co. were not the actual manufacturers of the flour upon which they had for years placed
the brand in question, does not deprive them of the right
to be protected in the use of that brand as a trade-mark.
They used the words "La Favorita" to designate flour
selected by them, in the exercise of their best judgment, as
equal to a certain standard. The brand did not indicate by
whom the flour was manufactured, but it did indicate the
origin of its selection and classification. It was equivalent
to the signature of Holt & Co. to a certificate that the flour
was the genuine article which had been determined by them
to possess a certain degree of excellence. It did not, of course,
in itself, indicate quality, for it was merely a fancy name
and in a foreign language, but it evidenced, that the skill,
knowledge and judgment of Holt & Co. had been exercised
in ascertaining that the particular flour so marked was possessed. of a merit rendered definite by their examination and
of a uniformity rendered certain by their selection. The
case clearly does not fall within the rule announced in .Aranufacturing Co. v. Trainer, 101 U. S. 51, 55, that "letters or
figures which, by the custom of traders, or the declaration
of the manufacturer of the goods to which they are attached,
are only used to denote quality, are incapable of exclusive
appropriation, but are open to use by any one, like the adjectives of the language;" or in 1?aggett v. Findlatr,L. R. 17
Eq. 29, where an injunction to restrain the use upon a trade
label of the term "nourishing stout" was refused on the
obvious ground that "nourishing" was a mere English word
denoting quality. And the fact that flour so marked acquired
an extensive sale, because the public had discovered that it
might be relied on as of a uniformly meritorious quality,
demonstrates that the brand deserves protection rather than

MENENDEZ v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

that it should be debarred therefrom, on the ground, as
argued, of being indicative of quality only. Burton v. Stratton, 12 Fed. Rep. 696; Godillot v. -Harris,81 N. Y. 263;
Ransorne v. Graharn, 51 L. J. (N. S.) Ch. 897.
Holt & Co., then, having acquired the exclusive right to
the words "La Favorita," as applied to this particular vendible commodity, it is no answer to their action to say that
there was no invasion of that right because the name of S. 0.
Ryder accompanied the brand upon flour sold by appellants,
instead of the name of Holt & Co. That is an aggravation
and not a justification, for it is openly trading in the name
of another upon the reputation acquired by the device of the
true proprietor. Gillott v. Esterbrook, 47 Barb. 455; . 0.
48 N. Y. 374; Coats v. ffolbrook, 2 Sandf. Oh. 586.
These views dispose of two of the defences specifically
urged on behalf of appellants, and we do not regard that of
prior public use, even if it could be properly considered under
the pleadings, as entitled to any greater weight. Evidence
was given to the effect that from 1857 to 1860 the words
"La Favorita" were occasionally used in St. Louis by Sears
& Co., then manufacturing in that city, as designating a
particular flour, but the witnesses were not able to testify
that any had been on sale there under that brand (unless it
were that of Holt & Co.) for upwards of twenty years. The
use thus proven was so casual and such little importance
apparently attached to it, that it is doubtful whether Sears
& Co. could at any time have successfully claimed the words
as a trade-mark, and at all events, such use was discontinued
before Holt & Co. appropriated the words to identify their
own flour, and there was no attempt to resume it.
It is argued, however, that the title of Holt & Co. to the
use of the mark was not superior to that of S. 0. Ryder,
because it is said that Ryder, upon leaving the firm, took
with him his share of the good-will of the business, and
consequently of the trade-marks, and hence that the defendants below rightfully sold flour under the brand "La Favorita," when selected by Ryder and so marked by him.
Good-will was defined by Lord Eldon, in Cruttwell v. L-ye,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.
17 Vres. 335, 346, to be "nothing more than the probability
that the old customers will resort to the old place;" but Vice
Chancellor Wood, in Churton v. Douglas, Johnson, V. 0.
174, 188, says it would be taking too narrow a view of what
is there laid down by Lord Eldon, to confine it to that, but
that it must mean every positive advantage that has been
acquired by the old firm in the progress of its business,
whether connected with the premises in which the business
was previously carried on, or with the name of the late firm,
or with any other matter carrying with it the benefit of the
business.
It may be that where a firm is dissolved and ceases to exist
under the old name, each of the former partners would be
allowed to obtain "his share" in the good-will, so far as that
might consist in the use of trade-marks, by continuing such use
in the absence of stipulation to the contrary; but when a
partner retires from a firm, assenting to or acquiescing in the
retention by the other partners of possession of the old place
of business and the future conduct of the business by them
under the old name, the good-will remains with the latter as
of course.
Holt & Co. commenced business in 1845, and had had an.
uninterrupted existence under that name since 1855; the
trade-mark in question was adopted by the senior member of
the firm in 1861, and had been thereafter in continuous use;
Ryder became a partner in 1861, and retired February 1, 1869,
when a circular was issued, in which he participated, announcing the dissolution by his retirement, the continuance of the
business by the other partners under the same firm name, and
the formation of another partnership by Ryder with one
Rowland, to transact the flour and commission business at
another place, under the name of Rowland & Ryder.
In addition to these facts it is established by the preponderance of evidence, that it was verbally agreed, at the time
Ryder retired, that he surrendered all interest in the brands
belonging to iHolt & Co. Ryder attempts to deny this, but
his denial is so qualified as to render it unreliable as against
the direct and positive character of the evidence to the con-

MENENDEZ v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

trary. Indeed, when asked why the brands were not made
the subject of appraisement when he went out, as it was conceded all the other property of the firm was, he says that it
was because he "gave up all right, title and interest to those
valuable brands to Robert S. Holt out of friendship, so there
was no occasion for it." In our judgment, Ryder's claim to
any interest in the good-will of the business of Holt & Co.,
including the firm's trade-marks, ended with his withdrawal
from that firm.
Counsel in conclusion earnestly contends that whatever
rights appellees may have had were lost by laches; and the
desire is intimated that we should reconsider McLeanu v. 1T7n'ing, 96 U. S. 245, so far as it was therein stated that even
though a complainant were guilty of such delay in seeking
relief upon infringement as to preclude him from obtaining an
account of gains and profits, yet, if he were otherwise so entitled, an injunction against future infringement might prop
erly be awarded. We see no reason to modify this general
proposition, and we do not find in the facts as disclosed by the
record before us anything to justify us in treating this case as
an exception.
The intentional use of another's trade-mark is a fraud; and
when the excuse is that the owner permitted such use, that
excuse is disposed of by affirmative action to put a stop to it.
Persistence then in the use is not innocent; and the wrong is a
continuing one, demanding restraint by judicial interposition
when properly invoked. M ere delay or acquiescence cannot
defeat the remedy by injunction in support of the legal right,
unless it has been continued so long and under such circumstances
as to defeat the right itself. Hence, upon an application to
stay waste, relief will not be refused on the ground that, as the
defendant had been allowed to cut down half of the trees upon
the complainant's land, he had acquired, by that negligence,
the right to cut down the remainder, Attorrney Generalv. Eastlake, 11 Hare, 205; nor will the issue of an injunction against
the infringement of a trade-mark be denied on the ground that
mere procrastination in seeking redress for depredations had
deprived the true proprietor of his legal right. Fullwood v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.
Fulwood, 9 Ch. D. 176. Acquiescence to avail must be such
as to create a new right in the defendant. Rodgers v. 7Aowill,
3 De G., M. & G. 614. Where consent by the owner to the use
of his trade-mark by another is to be inferred from his knowledge and silence merely, "it lasts no longer than the silence
from which it springs; it is, in reality, no more than a revocable license." Duer, J., Amoskeag JJIfg. Co. v. 8'pear, 2 Sandford (iN. Y.) 599; Julian v. Eoosier _Drill Co., 78 Indiana, 408;
Taylor v. Carpenter,3 Story, 458; S. C. 2 Woodb. & Min. 1.
So far as the act complained of is completed, acquiescence
may defeat the remedy on the principle applicable when action
is taken on the strength of encouragement to do it, but so far
as the act is in progress and lies in the future, the right to the
intervention of equity is not generally lost by previous delay,
in respect to which the elements of an estoppel could rarely
arise. At the same time, as it is in the exercise of discretionary jurisdiction that the doctrine of reasonable diligence is
applied, and those who seek equity must do it, a court might
hesitate as to the measure of relief, where the use, by others,
for a long period, under assumed permission of the owner, had
largely enhanced the reputation of a particular brand.
But there is nothing here in the nature of an estoppel,
nothing which renders it inequitable to arrest at this stage
any further invasion of complainants' rights. There is no pretence of abandonment. That would require proof of non-user
by the owner or general surrender of the use to the public.
The evidence is positive that Holt & Co. continuously used the
trade-mark, always asserted their exclusive right to it, and
never admitted that of any other firm or person, and, in the
instance of every party, including Ryder, who used this brand
on flour not of Hlolt & Co.'s selection, that use, when it came
to their knowledge, was objected to by the latter, and personal
notice given, while publication was also made in the newspapers, circulating where the flour was usually marketed, containing a statement of Holt & Co.'s rights and warning against
imitations. It is idle to talk of acquiescence in view of these
facts. Delay in bringing suit there was, and such delay as to
preclude recovery of damages for prior infringement, but there

RYDER v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

was neither conduct nor negligence which could be held to
destroy the right to prevention of further injury.
The decree of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be
Affirmed.

RYDER v. HOLT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 76. Argued November 14, 18.-Decided December 10, 1888.

A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction over suits for the
violation of a trade-mark if the plaintiff and defendant are citizens of
the same State, and the bill fails to allege that the trade-mark in controversy was used on goods intended to be transported to a foreign
country.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

A&. Arathur v. Briesen for appellant.
.Mr. Rowland Cox for appellee.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
It was stipulated in the Circuit Court that this cause should
abide the event of .Jolt v. .Menendez, ante, 514, just decided, and
the same decree in favor of complainants was, therefore, rendered in this as in that case. But it is now assigned for error
that, as defendant and complainants below were citizens of
the same State, and the bill did not allege that the trade-mark
in controversy was "used on goods intended to be transported
to a foreign country," Act of March 3, 1881, c. 138, ยง 11, 21
Stat. 502, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, and the decree
must be reversed for that reason. The objection is well taken,
and the decree is accordingly
Reversed.

