COGSWELL v. FORDYCE.
Statement of the Case.

COGSWELL v. FORDYCE.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 63. Submitted November 2, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.
An action upon a bond given to supersede a judgment or decree of a court
of the United States is not a" case brought on account of the deprivation
of any right, privilege, or immunity secured by the Constitution of the
United States, or of any right or privilege of a citizen of the United
States, so as to give this court jurisdiction of it in error or on appeal"
under the fourth subdivision of Rev. Stat., § 699, "without regard to
the sum or value in dispute."
As the matter in dispute in this case, exclusive of costs, does not exceed
the sum or value of e5OOO, the writ of error is dismissed.

SAMUEL W. FORDYCE recovered in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, December
'7, 1882, a judgment in ejectment against Thomas J. Cogswell
and Anna M. Cogswell. From that judgment the latter
prayed an appeal to this court, executing with J. L. Goodbar,
as surety, a bond in the penalty of $3600, conditioned that
the principal obligors would prosecute their appeal with effect
or, failing therein, pay all such costs and damages as the obligee sustained by reason of the wrongful detention of the
property sued for.
The obligors having failed to prosecute their appeal, the
present suit was brought, February 24, 1885, upon said bond,
to recover the sum of $3600, as the damages sustained by
reason of the detention of the property from the plaintiff in
the ejectment suit.
A demurrer to the complaint having been overruled, the
defendants filed an answer. The parties consenting thereto
in writing, the case was tried by the court without the intervention of a jury, and judgment rendered June 20; 1885, in
favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $2400.
The defendants thereupon sued out this writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr.Samnuel Shellabargerand .Mr. Jeremiah .2f.Wilson, for
plaintiffs in error, submitted on their brief.
. r. Casey Young and -Mr. John D. .Maztin also filed a
brief for plaintiffs in error.
TKo appearance for defendant in error.
MR.
X

JUSTICE HLAMLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
This court cannot take cognizance of this case. The matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed the sum or value
of $5000. Rev. Stat., §§ 690, 691 ; Act of February 16, 1875,
c. 77, §§ 3, 4, 18 Stat. 315; Richardson's Suppl. Rev. Stat.
136.
It was, perhaps, supposed that our jurisdiction could be sustained under the fourth subdivision of § 699 of the Revised
Statutes, providing that this court may, without regard to the
sum or value in dispute, review any final judgment at law or
final decree in equity of any Circuit Court or of any District
Court acting as a Circuit Court, "in any case brought on account of the deprivation of any right, privilege, or immunity
secured by the Constitution of the United States, or of any
right or privilege of a citizen of the United States." But an
action upon a bond given to supersede a judgment or decree
of a court of the United States, cannot properly be said to
have been brought on any such account. The mere failure
or refusal of the obligors in such a bond to comply with its
terms is not, within the meaning of the statute referred to, a
"deprivation" of a right secured to the obligee by the Constitution of the United States, or of any right or privilege belonging to him, as a citizen of the United States. See Bowman v. hicago & Northweste'n .Railway Co., 115 U. S.611,
615.

27Te writ of error is dismissed.

