UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
Statement of the Case.

noxious to the second and third rules; it asks us to decide
whether, upon all the evidence in the case, the defendant was
entitled to a verdict. This would require us to decide upon
the weight of the evidence and the conclusions to be drawn
from the facts. It would also require us to decide the whole
ca~e.
The first question is not open to these objections. It
presents a single point of law, namely, whether parol evidence
may or may not be introduced to explain such documents as
those which were given in evidence by the defendant. We
are not now asked to decide whether such evidence should
have been allowed in this case. That will be the question for
consideration when the case is argued on its merits. On the
present motion we are only required to decide whether the
question is one of pure law, and one that presents but a single
point for consideration. We think it is of that character. If
only a single writing had been offered in evidence by the defendant, the question whether parol evidence could have been
given to alter or explain it would clearly have been a single
question of law. The fact that many writings were offered,
all of the same general character, and offered to prove the
same fact, does not make the case to differ.
'he rotion to dismiss the writ must be denied.

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1162. Submitted November 5, 188.-Decided November 19, 188.

The longevity acts of 1882, 1883, 22 Stat. 284, 287, c. 391; 473,
authorize a restatement of the pay accounts of an officer
'who served in the regular or volunteer army or navy, so as
credit in the grade held by him, prior to their passage for
served in the army or navy reaching that grade.

c. 97, do not
of the navy
to give him
the time he

Tins was an appeal from a judgment against the United
States in favor of the plaintiff, Foster, for the sum of $1393.40,

OCTOBER TERM£

1888.

Statement of the Case.

as the amount due him under what is known as the longevity
acts of Congress.
Prior to November 28, 1861, he served in the navy as an
enlisted man for six years and forty days; and he served as
gunner in the regular navy from November 28, 1861, until
April 14, 1868, a period of six years and 145 days, when he
resigned. He was reappointed gunner December 27, 1869,
since which date he served continuously in that capacity.
Under the longevity acts of 18E2 and 1883, 22 Stat. 284, 287,
c. 391; 473, c. 97, he has been allowed credit, for prior services
only upon his second warrant as gunner, and he has been
credited upon that warrant with twelve years and 185 days,
the entire period of his service, as enlisted man and gunner
prior to his re-entering the service on the 27th day of December, 1869. If he had been allowed on his first warrant
as gunner, for his previous service of six years and forty
days as an enlisted man, he would have received, as the
result of such credit, the sum of $1393.40, the amount of the
judgment below, exclusive of the thirty-three and one-third
per centum increase under General Order, No. 75, of May 26,
1866.
Between the date of his resignation on April 14, 1868, and
his reappointment as gunner, December 27, 1869, the plaintiff
held no position in the navy.
The longevity act of 1883, (the addition to the act of 1882
being shown by italics,) under which the present claim is
made, provides that "all officers of the navy shall be credited
with the actual time they may have served as officers or
enlisted men in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both,
and shall receive all the benefits of such actual service in all
respects in the same manner as if all said service had been
continuoufs and in the regular navy in the lowest grade having
graduated pay held by such officer since last entering the
service: Provided,That nothing in this clause shall be so construed as to authorize any change in the dates of commission
or in the relative rank of such officers: Provided,further,
That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to give
any additionalpay to any such oificer during the time of his

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

service in the volunteer a'n&y or navy."
391; 473, c. 97.

22 Stat. 284, 287, c.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard and Mr. F. P.
Dewees for appellants.
-3r.Robert B. Lines and .A2r. John Paul Jones for appellee.
Mk[R. JUSTIoE l.RLAi,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

There is no claim that the plaintiff did not receive, on his
first warrant as gunner, that is, for the whole period of his
first continuous service in that position, all the compensation
to which he was entitled as gounner, under the law as it was
during that period. And it is found, in effect, that he has
received credit, on his second warrant as gunner, for the actual
time of his entire service prior to December 27, 1869, both as
enlisted man and gunner, counting such service as if it had
been continuous and in the regular navy in the lowest grade,
having graduated pay held by him after he re-entered the service, that is, in the grade of gunner. In our judgment, he is not
entitled to more under existing legislation. The acts of 1882
and 1883 do not require or authorize a restatement of the pay
accounts of an officer of the navy who served in the regular or
volunteer army or navy, so as to give him credit in the grade
held by him, prior to their passage, for the time he served
in the army or navy before reaching that grade. Congress
only intended to give him credit in the grade held by him,
after those acts took efeet, for all prior services, whether as an.
enlisted man or officer, counting such services, however separated by distinct periods of time, as if they had been continuous and in the regular navy in the lowest grade having
graduated pay held by him since last entering the service; and
that credit has been given to the plaintiff. In this view, the
conclusion reached by the Court of Claims was erroneous.
The judgment is reversed with directions to dismiss the
_petition.

