OCTOBER TERM24, 1888.
Syllabus.

favor of levying a tax to raise a sum of money as a donation
to a railroad company, provided the company should run the
road through two specified villages. The road was never constructed into or through either of them, and the vote was not
for the issue of bonds, but for levying a tax; but bonds were
issued, in 1871, and this court held them void, in a suit against
the town on coupons cut from them, the bonds reciting on
their face that they were issued under and by virtue of a
specified law of Illinois, which law, however, only authorized
towns, including the town in question, to make a donation in
aid of the particular road in question, the money to be raised
by taxation.
Without considering other grounds on which our decision
might be rested, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Circuit Court must be
Ajl~hmed.

THE CIIATEAUGAY ORE AND IRON OOMPANY,
PETITIONER.
ORIGINAL.
No. 3. Original. Argued November 13, 1888. -Decided December 10, 1388.
In this case a mandamus was issued, commanding the judge of a Circuit
Court of the United States to settle a bill of exceptions according to the
truth of the matters which took place before him on the trial of an
action before the court, held by him and a jury, and to sign it, when
settled, he having refused to settle and sign it on the ground that the
term of the court at which the action was tried had expired, and the
time allowed for signing the bill had expired.
The practice and rules of the state court do not apply to proceedings taken
in a Circuit Court of the United States for the purpose of reviewing in
this court a judgment of such Circuit Court; and such rules and practice, embracing the preparation, perfection, settling and signing of a
bill of exceptions, are not within the "practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding" which are required by § 914 of the Revised
Statutes to conform "as near as may be " to those "existing at the time
in like causes in the courts of record of the State."
The manner or the time of taking proceedings, as the foundation for the
removal of a case by a writ of error from one Federal Court to another,.
is a matter to be regulated exclusively by acts of Congress, or, when

CHATEAUGAY IRON CO., PETITIONER.

*

545

Statement of the Case.
they are silent, by methods derived from the common law, from ancient
English statutes, or from the rules and practice of the courts of the
United States.
In this case the party tendering the bill to be settled and signed sufficiently
complied with the rules and practice of the Circuit Court.
The decision in MUller v. Ehler's, 91 U. S. 249, held not to apply to the
present case.

THE court stated the case as follows: A petition was filed in this court, by the Chateaugay Ore
and Iron Company, on the 8th of October, 1888, praying this
court to issue a writ of mandamus to the Honorable Nathaniel
Shipman, District Judge of the District of Connecticut,
assigned to hold, and who held, the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, to
settle a bill of exceptions according to the truth of the matters which took place before him on the trial of an action at
law in that court, brought by Theodore A. Blake against the
Chateaugay Ore and Iron Company; and to sign the same,
when so settled, as of the 10th of April, 1888, that being the
day when such bill of exceptions was submitted to him.
On the 15th of October, 1888, this court made an order that
cause be shown by Judge Shipman, and by the plaintiff in
the suit, on the 12th of November, 1888, why a writ of mandamus should not issue as prayed in the petition. The plaintiff showed cause, in answer to the petition, and appeared by
counsel; but no cause was shown by Judge Shipman, although
the order was served on him personally on the 18th of October, 1888. We are, therefore, left without any authoritative
statement from the judge as to the grounds on which he declined, as he did, to settle and sign a bill of exceptions, and
can gather those grounds only from the statements of the
petition for the writ and of the answer of the plaintiff.
There were two actions, each brought to recover the price
of goods sold and delivered by the plaintiff to the defendant,
which actions were consolidated into one. The trial was had
before Judge Shipman and a jury, which, on the 25th of January, 1888, rendered a verdict for the plaintiff for $95,74.53.
The docket minute of the court, of the proceedings after verVOL. CXXVM-35

546

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

dict, as first entered, showed that the court then made the
following order: "It is ordered that the defendant have forty
days from January 25, 1888, within which to prepare and
serve a case herein, with leave to turn the same into a bill of
exceptions. It is further ordered that judgment may be
entered on said verdict, and that the defendant have a stay of
execution until the decision of the motion for a new trial
herein." On the 31st of January, 1888, a judgment was rendered in the action, in favor of the plaintiff, for $9665.39,
being the amount of the verdict and costs.
On the 3d of March, 1888, being the thirty-eighth day after
the 25th of January, 1888, the defendant served upon the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff a proposed bill of exceptions. It was accepted and retained by such attorneys, and
the service thereof was admitted in writing. On the 13th of
March, 1888, the attorneys for the plaintiff applied to the
attorneys for the defendant for ten days' additional time
within which to prepare and serve such amendments as they
wished to make to the proposed bill of exceptions. In doing
this, they acted upon the view that their time to prepare and
serve such amendments did not expire until the 13th of March,
1888. Their application was granted, and a stipulation for ten
days' additional time was signed by the defendant's attorneys.
On the 23d of March, 1888, the attorneys for the plaintiff
served upon the attorneys for the defendant a paper containing seventy-seven amendments, which they desired to make to
such proposed bill of exceptions. Some of such proposed
amendments were agreed to by the defendant, while others
were not agreed to. On the 27th of March, 1888, the attorneys for the defendant served upon the attorneys for the
plaintiff a notice that the proposed bill of exceptions and proposed amendments would be presented to Judge Shipman, for
settlement and signature, on the 10th of April, 1888, at the
United States court rooms, in the city of INew York. Such
notice of settlement was received and retained, without objection, by the attorneys for the plaintiff, and a written admission
of the service thereof was given by them to the attorneys for
the defendant.

CIATEAUGAY IRON CO., PETITIONER.
Statement of the Case.

On the 10th of April, 1888, the defendant appeared by its
attorneys before Judge Shipman, and moved that the proposed
bill of exceptions be settled and signed. The attorneys for
the plaintiff appeared and opposed the motion, upon the
ground that the term of court at which the action was tried
bad expired on the 31st of March; that the forty days' time
allowed by the court, within which to prepare and serve a
bill of exceptions, had also expired; and that the plaintiff was
out of court and the court had no longer any jurisdiction over
him. The motion was continued until the next day, when,
both parties again appearing, Judge Shipman announced his
decision, sustaining the objections made on behalf of the plaintiff, for the reason, then stated orally by him, that the term
of the court at which the action was tried had expired, and
the forty days originally allowed by the court had also expired, and no order had been made, or consent given by the
plaintiff or his attorneys, extending the time for signing the
bill of exceptions beyond the term at which the cause was
tried, and no very extraordinary circumstances were shown
in the case, to justify the court in entertaining the application ; so that, under the rule laid down in the case of .fiiiUe
v. Le s, 91 U. S. 249, the application of the defendant for
the settlement and signing of the bill of exceptions must be
denied.
On the denial of such motion, and on the 11th of April,
1888, the court made an order, entitled in the cause, which,
after reciting as follows, In this case, at the October term,
1887, of this court, after judgment upon the verdict for the
plaintiff, a stay of forty days, and until the decision of any
motion for a new trial upon a bill of exceptions, having been
granted, and the said forty days and the said October term of
this court having passed and no proper foundation by bill
of exceptions having been taken by the defendant to move
for a new trial," ordered, that such stay of execution be vacated.
On the 17th of April, 1888, the court, after hearing both
parties, made an order amending the docket minute of the
proceedings after verdict, and the judgment roll founded
thereon, by striking out, in such docket minute, everything

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

after the words "it is ordered," and inserting the following:
"Mr. Kellogg moves orally to set aside the verdict as against
evidence and for a new trial, upon a bill of exceptions, to be
thereafter drawn. The court overruled the motion to set
aside the verdict and denied the same, and ordered judgment
for plaintiff upon the verdict to be entered, and that the
defendant have a stay of forty days to prepare and serve its
bill of exceptions, and a further stay until the decision of
such motion for a new trial upon said bill of exceptions." " The
same order directed that the order of April 11th, 1888, be
resettled and entered with the following recital: "In this
case, at the October term of this court, and on the 25th day
of January, 1888, after verdict for the plaintiff, counsel for
the defendant having orally moved for a new trial, upon
a bill of exceptions, to be thereafter drawn, and the court
having then ordered judgment for the plaintiff to be entered
on said verdict, and that a stay of proceedings upon the
judgment for forty days, and until the decision of said motion,
be granted to the defendant, and the said October term of
this court having ended on the 31st day of March, 1888, and
the said forty days having elapsed, and no bill of exceptions
having been presented to or allowed by the court, and there
being no bill of exceptions upon which said motion for a new
trial is to be based;" and with a direction "that the said stay
of proceedings so granted be vacated and set aside."
Judge Shipman was duly designated to hold the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of INew York for two weeks
beginning on the 16th of January, 1888. The session of the
court held by him terminated on the 27th of January, 1888,
and during the time from that day until the first Monday of
April, 1888, which was the 2d of April, when the April term
of that court began, Judge Shipman was assigned to hold no
court within the Southern District of New York, and he was
not at anytime between the 27th of January, 1888, and the
2d of April, 1888, within the Southern District of New York
for any official purpose.
A writ of error to remove the case to this court was allowed,
on a bond approved to operate as a supersedeas, and a citation

CHATEAUGAY IRON CO., PETITIONER.
Argument against Petitioner.

was served. A transcript of the record was filed in this
court on the 8th of October, 1888. The foregoing facts are
stated, partly from the papers in the application for the mandamus, and partly from the contents of such record.
XrL. Edmund Wtetrnore and -i. .Frank . Smith for petitioner.
Xr.1R. A. .ussey and .M'. 1.

. Chittenden,opposing.

I. Three preliminary objections are made to the present petition: (a) The writ of mandamus is not the proper remedy
to restore to a party what he has lost by his own negligence.
Such a party is not supposed to be entitled to its benefits.
(6) The rule to show cause was not entered until after the
time to file the record in this court expired. The time to
file the record expired on the 13th day of October, 1888, and
the rule was not made until the 15th day of October, 1888.
By filing the record the plaintiff in error admits its completeness. It never has and does not now make any motion to
correct the record. The granting of the writ would not affect
the record on which the case must be decided. (e) It is
decided by this court to be among its elementary rules that
the writ of mandamus cannot be used "to control the discretion" of an inferior tribunal "while acting or to reverse its
decisions when made." EJxopa'te Bltis, 103 U. S. 238.
In Lparte Railway Co., 101 U. S. '11, which was an application by mandamus to require the Circuit Court, after its
refusal, to put petitioner into possession of a railroad decreed
to it here, this court said, "it is not consistent with the principles and usages of law, that we should, in that summary mode,
revise the action of inferior courts, as to any matters about
which they must or may exercise judicial discretion. ' The
writ has never been extended so far, nor ever used to control
the discretion and judgment of an inferior court of record
acting within the scope of its judicial authority"' (citing
numerous authorities).
In -Exparte R7i2pin, 94; U. S. 348, where it was claimed
that the court below denied a motion to quash an execution

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument against Petitioner.

claimed to be improperly issued, and the mandamus was to
require the justice to quash the writ, this court said: "But if
the court has jurisdiction to issue process, it has necessarily
jurisdiction to decide as to its appropriate form. Here the
process has been issued ; and the court upon motion, has decided
that it.was in good form and ought not to be quashed. Of
this decision the petitioners complain and seek to have it
reversed. This we cannot do by mandamus. Under that
form 6f proceeding we may compel an inferior court to decide
upon a matter within its jurisdiction and pending before it for
judicial determination, but we cannot control its decision.
Neither can we in that way compel the inferior court to
reverse a decision which it has made in the exercise of its
legitimate jurisdiction.

.

.

.

If there is anything in the

case of AtcCargo v. Chapman, 20 How. 555, to the contrary
of this it is disapproved.."
In Carrick v. Lamar, 116 U. S. 423, Mkr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, says that the principle of the writ of mandamus in the case of an executive officer, is applicable "only to
ministerial acts, in the performance of which no exercise of
judgment or discretion is required." The rule is the same in
regard to inferior courts, unless it is apparent that the discretion has been abused. In the case at bar no such abuse can be
suggested.
In Ec parte Pery,102 U. S. 183, in an application to set
aside a stay of execution, which stay it was alleged was
unauthorized by law, this court said, "the object of this proceeding is to obtain from us an order requiring that court to
reverse its former decision and grant the relief it has once
refused. That is the office of a writ of error or an appeal, and
not of a writ of mandamus." See also, Ex _parte Schwab, 98
U. S. 240; Exata Loring, 94 U. S. 418; Exparte TFAitney,
13 'Pet. 404.
It is admitted by the petition that the court below acted
upon the petitioner's motion. The petitioner was heard, and
his motion that the bills of exception be signed was denied.
This fact is fatal to the petition. Ex parte Aorgan, 114 U. S.
174; Esparte Yughes, 114 U. S. 147; Ec _parte Brown, 116
U. S. 401.

CHATEAUGAY IRON CO., PETITIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

II. The court below must be regarded as the judge of its
own rules and sessions. life Ins. Co. v. tranoisco, 17 Wall.
672; United States v. Breitling, 20 How. 252.
In the case last cited, Chief Justice Taney said, in a case
which presented this point, in regard to an exception: "The
time within which it may be drawn out and presented to the
court must depend on its rules and practice, and on its own
judicial discretion." This is to be understood, of course, as to
exceptions presented before the end of the term.
In the case at bar, the October term at which the judgment was rendered had passed, and a new term had commenced. The power of the court to allow exceptions had
terminated. But if it had not, in the absence of any extension
of the time, the petitioner could assert no lawful right to
exceptions.
III. The decision of the Circuit Court was right. It followed the reported decisions of this court, and, had it decided
otherwise, this court would have disregarded the exceptions.
. 3iler v. Elers, 91 U. S. 249; Wlralton v. United States, 9
Wheat. 651; Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333; Bronson v.
Schulten, 104 U. S. 410; Pkilldps v. .Yegley, 117 U. S. 665;
Brooks v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 107.
Mr. JUSTiCE BLATCnTOr , after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the writ of mandamus must issue.
By rules 67 and 69 of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, which took effect on the first Monday of
August, 1838, it is provided that, when exceptions to the
opinion of the court are taken by either party on the trial of
a cause, he shall not be required to prepare his bill of exceptions at the trial, but shall merely reduce the exceptions to
writing, or the court will, on request, note the point, and the
bill of exceptions shall afterwards be drawn up, amended, and
settled, under the following regulations: The bill of exceptions
shall be prepared and a copy thereof served upon the opposite
party before judgment is rendered on the verdict; the oppo-

.559,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

site party may, within four days after such service, propose
amendments to the bill and serve a copy upon the party who
prepared it; if the parties cannot agree in regard to the
amendments, then, within four days after such service of a
copy of the amendments, either party may give to the other
notice to appear within a convenient time, and not more
than four days after service of such notice, before the judge
who tried the cause, to have the bill and amendments settled; the judge shall thereupon correct and settle the same
as he shall deem to consist with the truth of the facts; but,
if the parties shall omit, within the several times above
limited, unless the same shall be enlarged by a judge, the one
to propose amendments, and the other to notify an appearance
before the judge, they shall respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the bill as prepared, and the latter to
have agreed to the amendments as proposed; and if the
party omit to make a bill within the time above limited,
unless the same shall be enlarged as aforesaid, he shall be
deemed to have waived his right thereto.
A corresponding practice prevails in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, by its rules, with variations as to
time. Under those rules, a case, or a case and exceptions, or
a case containing exceptions, on a trial 'before a jury, is to be
made, and a copy thereof served on the opposite party, within
ten days after the trial. The party served may, within ten
days thereafter, propose amendments thereto and serve a copy
on the party proposing the case or exceptions, who may
within four days thereafter serve the opposite party with a
notice that the case or exceptions, with the proposed amendments, will be submitted at a time and place to be specified
in the notice, not less than four nor more than twenty days
after service of such notice, to the justice before whom the
cause was tried, for settlement.
It is apparent that both parties in this case acted upon the
view that the rule of practice of the Supreme Court of the
State applied to the case; because the plaintiff, instead of
serving on the defendant his proposed amendments to the
bill within four days after the 3d of March, as required by

CHATEAUGAY IRON CO., PETITIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

the rule of the Circuit Court, waited ten days, under thp rule
of the Supreme Court of the State, and then, on the 13th of
March, obtained a stipulation from the defendant giving ten
days' additional time to prepare and serve amendments. It
may be that the defendant, in serving, on the 27th of March,
a notice of settlement of fourteen days, for the 10th of April,
on the plaintiff, intended to comply, as it in fact did comply,
with the requirement of the rule of the state court that such
notice should be a notice of not less than four nor more than
twenty days; yet it also sufficiently complied with rule 67 of
the Circuit Court, which required a notice of not more than
four days, because a notice of four days, served on the 27th
of March, would have been for the 31st of March, and Judge
Shipman was not then within the Southern District of New
York, so as to be able to perform any judicial act there, nor
did he come there, so as to be able to do so, until the 2d of
April, 1888. Under these circumstances, the notice for the
10th of April was a reasonable compliance with the rule of
the Circuit Court.
We are of opinion that the practice and rules of the state
court do not apply to proceedings in the Circuit Court taken
for the purpose of reviewing in this court a judgment of the
Circuit Court, and that such rules and practice, embracing
the preparation, perfecting, settling, and signing of a bill of
exceptions, are not within the "practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding" in the Circuit Court which are
required, by § 914 of the Revised Statutes, to conform "as
near as may be" to the "practice, pleadings, and forms and
modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the
courts of record of the State" within which the Circuit Court
is held, "any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
This court has had occasion several times to construe § 911.
In Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, a state statute required a
judge to instruct a jury only as to the law of a case, and provided that the written instructions of the court should be taken
by the jury in their retirement and returned with the verdict,
and that papers read in evidence might be carried from the
bar by the jury. The court charged the jury upon the facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and refused to permit them to take to their room the written
instructions given by the court or papers read in evidence.
This court held that this was not error, because the personal
conduct and administration of the judge in the discharge of
his separate functions was not practice or pleading, or a form
or mode of proceeding, within the meaning of those terms in
the act of Congress.
In IndianapolisRailroad Co. v. B2orst, 93 U. S. 291, a state
statute prescribed that the judge should require the jury to
answer special interrogatories in addition to finding a general
verdict. This court held that that provision did not apply to
the courts of the United States; and that the act of Congress
did not apply to a motion for a new trial, nor affect the power
of the Circuit Court to grant or refuse a new trial in its discretion. This last point was again so ruled in l2ewcomb v. Wood,
97 U. S. 581.
In harmony with the foregoing decisions, we are of opinion
that § 914 does not extend to the means of enforcing or revising a decision once made by the Circuit Court. Section 914
does not extend to proceedings to enforce a judgment, because
by § 916 special provisions are made as to a remedy by execution or otherwise, to reach the property of a judgment debtor,
by borrowing from the laws of the State only those remedies
then already existing, or which should thereafter be adopted
by general rules of the Circuit Court. 1amaster v. JYeeler,
123 U. S. 376. The object of § 914 was to assimilate the
form and manner in which the parties should present their
claims and defence, in the preparation for the trial of suits in
the Federal courts, to those prevailing in the courts of the
State. As we have seen, it does not include state statutes
requiring instructions to the jury to be reduced to writing, or
those which permit such instructions and certain papers read
in evidence, to be taken by the jury when they retire, or those
which require the jury to be directed, if they return a general
verdict, to find specially upon particular questions of fact involved in the issues; and, as it does not apply to a motion for
a new trial, nor affect the power of the Circuit Court to grant
or refuse a new trial at its discretion, so it does not cover any

CIIATEAUGAY IRON CO., PETITIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

other means of enforcing or revising a decision once made
by the Circuit Court. The manner or the time of taking proceedings as a foundation for the removal of a case by a writ

of error from one Federal court to another is a matter to be
regulated exclusively by acts of Congress, or, when they are
silent, by methods derived from the common law, from ancient
English statutes, or from the rules and practice of the courts
of the United States. The only regulation made by Congress
as to bills of exceptions is that contained in § 953 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that they shall be sufficiently
authenticated by the signature of the presiding judge, without
any seal.
These views were adopted by the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York, in Whalen v. Sheridan, 18
Blatchford, 3241, and by the Circuit Court for the District of
Massachusetts, in United States v. Train, 12 Fed. Rep. 852.
In the present case, the defendant prepared and served its
bill of exceptions within the forty days from January 25.
The expression "prepare and serve," in the order allowing the
forty days, clearly meant, in view of rules 61 and 69 of the
Circuit Court, that the proposed bill was to be prepared and
served on the opposite party within the forty days, so that he
might propose amendments to it within the time prescribed
by the rules. It was so prepared and served within the forty
days. It was retained by the plaintiff for ten days after its
service. He then obtained, by stipulation, from the defendant, ten days' more time to prepare and serve amendments.
The proposed amendments were served on the tenth day and
the notice of settlement was accepted, written admission of
its service was given and it was retained. Under these and
the other circumstances above detailed, we think the defendant was entirely regular in its practice and that the plaintiff
was estopped from raising the objection which he made before
Judge Shipman.
On the facts of the present case, the decision in .XIhller v.
1?241ers, 91 U. S. 249, has no application. In that case, on a
trial by the court, without a jury, of an action at law, there
was a general finding for the plaintiff, and a motion for a new

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

trial. The motion was continued until the next term, when it
was overruled, and judgment was entered on the finding. At
the latter term, a writ of error, returnable to this court, was
sued out, and the term was adjourned without any bill of
exceptions having been signed or allowed, or any time having
been given, either by consent of the parties or by order of the
court, to prepare one. At 'the next ensuing term, and after
the return day of the writ of error, a bill of exceptions was
signed and filed by order of the court, as of the day the finding was made, and it did not appear that that had been done
with the consent or knowledge of the plaintiff. On these
facts, this court held, that the ordcr of the court below, directing the filing of the bill of exceptions as of the date of the
finding, was a nullity, on the ground that the parties had, in
due course of proceeding, both in law and in fact, been dismissed from the court. That decision has no application to
the present case, because the rights of the defendant were
saved by the express order of the court, made during the term,
and by a sufficient compliance on the part of the defendant
with the rules of the Circuit Court, and by what must be held
to have been the consent of the plaintiff.
In this view of the case, the question whether the term at
which the verdict was rendered expired on the 25th of February, being the Saturday next preceding the last Monday of
February, or on the 31st of March, being the Saturday next
preceding the first Monday of April, is immaterial. The rules
of the Circuit Court clearly contemplate proceedings to perfect a bill of exceptions within the times limited by those
rules, without reference to the expiration of a term. By
§ 658 of the Revised Statutes, terms of the Circuit Court
are appointed to be held in the Southern District of New
York on the first Monday in April and the third Monday in
October, "and for the trial of criminal causes and suits in
equity " on the last M onday in February. The defendant contends that the October term terminated at the beginning of
the February term, and the plaintiff contends that the October
term terminated at the beginning of the April term. We do
not find it necessary to decide this question.

PURDY v. LANSING.
Counsel for Parties.

A writ of mandamus may properly be issued by this court,
to compel the judge of an inferior court to settle and sign
a bill of exceptions. -Ex parte Crane, 5 Pet. 190. Such a
writ does not undertake to control the discretion of the judge
as to how he shall frame the bill of exceptions, or as to how
he shall decide any point arising on its settlement; but it only
compels him to settle and sign it in some form.
The writ will issue in the teprns of the prayer of the petition,
commaanding the judge to settle the bill of exceptions tenderedby the defendant, according to the truth of the matters
which took place before him on the trial of the aforesaid
action, and, when so settled, to sign it as of the 10th day
of April, 1888, that being the day when the proposed bill
andproposed amendments were submitted to him for settleMent.

PURDY v. LANSING.
ERROR TO THE

SMOUIT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR Tn

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 906. Argued November 23, 26, 1888. -Decided

December 10, 1868.

The bonds of the town of Lansing, in the State of New York, issued to aid
in the construction of the New York and Oswego Midland Railroad, having been put out without a previous designation by the company of all
the counties through which the extension authorized by the New York
act of 1871, c. 298, would pass, were issued without authority of law, and
are invalid.

Tis was an action at law against the town of Lansing to
recover on bonds issued by it in aid of the New York and
Oswego Midland Railroad. Judgment for defendant; plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opinion.
21r. James B. Cox for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Francis Keenan for defendant in error; Mr. H.
Howland was with him on the brief.

.

