OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

foot-lever; and the third claim, in requiring the two levers to
be rigidly connected.
In the Kelly machine, patented September 14, 1875, and in
public use before the plaintiff's invention, a foot-lever and
hand-lever had been used in combination, rigidly connected
together, (certainly quite as much so as in the defendant's
machine,) and with a lock on the hand-lever.
The only feature of the plaintiff's machine which can possibly be considered as new is a slotted lever connected with the
runner-frame by a bolt, and the hand-lever mounted upon a
shaft journaled at one end to the main frame and at the other
end to the seat-standard, thereby facilitating the depressing of
the runners by a single movement. The claim in the original
patent is limited to a mechanism containing that feature,
which is not found in the defendatnt's machine.' The enlargement of the claims in the reissue, so as to embrace machines
not containing that feature, is void, under the rule established by recent decisions of this court, too numerous and
familiar to require citation.
.Decree affi rmed.

DUBLIN TOWNSHIP v. MILFORD SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UIITED STATES FOR THR,
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 943.

Submitted November 19, 1888. -Decided

December 10, 1888.

This court has no jurisdiction of a writ of error to the Circuit Court by reason
of a certificate of division of opinion upon questions arising on demurrers
to several defences in the answer, each of which questions, instead of
clearly and precisely stating a distinct point of law, requires this court
to find out the point intended to be presented, by searching through the
allegations of the answer and the provisions of a statute, and by also
examining either the whole constitution of the State, or else reports or
records of decisions of its courts, made part of the answer.

Tim original action was brought by the Milford Five Cent
Savings Institution, a New Hampshire corporation, against

DUBLIN TOWNSHIP v. MILFORD INSTITUTION. 511
Statement of the Case.

the Trustees of Dublin Township, Mercer County, Ohio, upon
coupons attached to bonds issued by the defendants to aid in
the construction of a railroad, under the statute of Ohio of
April 10, 1880. 77 Ohio Laws, 165.
Each count of the petition set forth at lengoth provisions of
that statute, and the facts relied on as constituting the cause
of action, and alleged that the statute was not in conflict with
the Constitution of Ohio, as had been determined by the
Supreme Court of the State in Walkeo v. Cincinnati,21 Ohio
St. 14.
The answer, occupying six closely printed pages of the
record, set up seven defences to the action, the nature of four
of which, constituting the greater part of the answer, is indicated by the following abstract:
The third defence asserted, that the statute was in conflict
with the Constitution of the State, set forth at length a number of facts and reasons supposed to bear upon that point,
alleged that the Supreme Court of Ohio by a uniform series
of decisions had held this and similar statutes to be in violation
of the Constitution of the State and void, and denied that this
case was similar to that of Walker v. Cininnati,mentioned
in the petition.
The fourth defence was that one Counterman and one Keith,
two, in behalf of all, taxpayers of the county, brought suit in
a court of the county against these defendants and the county
auditor and treasurer to restrain the levy and collection of
taxes to pay the bonds, because of the unconstitutionality of
the statute; that the suit was defended upon its merits and
resulted in a decree for a perpetual injunction; and that the
case was reported in 38 Ohio St. 515. A copy of the record in
that case was filed with and referred to as part of the answer
in the present case, occupying eleven pages of this record.
The fifth-defence was that the present plaintiff, as relator,
filed a petition in a court of the county against these defendants and the county auditor for a mandamus to compel the
levy and assessment of a tax to pay the bonds, and obtained
an alternative writ of mandamus, and the defendants filed an
answer setting up the unconstitutionality of the statute, to

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

which the plaintiff demurred, and thereupon judgment was
entered, holding the answer valid, and dismissing the petition,
which was still unreversed and in full force. A copy of the
record of that case, occupying six pages, was referred to and
made part of the answer in the present case.
The seventh aefence, "reiterating and re-averring all the
allegations of said third defence, as if again here rewritten,"
set out the provision of article 8, section 6, of the Constitution
of Ohio, by which "the General Assembly shall never authorize any county, city, town or township, by a vote of its citizens or otherwise, to become a stockholder in any joint stock
company, corporation or association whatever, or to raise
money for, or loan its credit to or in aid of, any such company,
corporation or association;" and, after stating other facts and
reasons supposed to bear upon the question, alleged "that it
was well known and understood by all people, including the
plaintiff, who gave the matter any consideration whatever,
that the act in question was intended as an evasion of the provisions of the constitution aforesaid;" and "that the act in
question and the scheme therein contemplated, together with
the concurrent legislation in reference to the same projected
railway, was similar to that which had been decreed by the
Supreme Court of the State of Ohio to be in plain violation of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio, in the case of Taylor v.
Commissioners of Ross County, 23 Ohio St. 22."
The plaintiff demurred to each of these grounds of defence,
for the reason that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence-to the action.
Upon argument before the Circuit Judge and the District
Judge, the court, in accordance with the opinion of the Circuit
.Judge, sustained the demurrers, and, the defendants not
wishing to answer further, gave judgment for the plaintiff
in the sum of $3819.15, and the judges certified a division
of opinion upon the following questions of law:
Whether the said answer showed that the law
"First.
under which the bonds sued upon were issued was in conflict
with the Constitution of the State of Ohio and therefore.
void.

DUBLIN TOWNSHIP v. MILFORD INSTITUTION. 513
Opinion of the Court.

"Second.

Whether, if said legislation is in conflict with

the Constitution of the State of Ohio, there had been such
decision of the state courts, prior to its passage and to the
sale or negotiation of the bonds alleged in the petition, that
such and similar legislation was constitutional and valid, as
entitles the plaintiff to recover under the decisions of the
Federal courts, notwithstanding the act in question had been
declared to be unconstitutional by the court of last resort
in the State of Ohio after said bonds were sold.
"Third. Whether the former suits, actions and proceedings
in the state courts, or any of them, alleged in said answer,
were and are such adjudication of the questions involved in
this action, as amounts to a bar to the plaintiff's right to
recover herein."
The defendants sued out a writ of error, which the plaintiff
now moved to dismiss for insufficiency of the certificate to
give this court jurisdiction.
.Afr. Oliver J Bailey, M1r. James J. Sedgwick and .Mr. J.
C. Lee for the motion.
Mr. John H. .Doyle, .Mr. S. E. Brown and .Mr. Herbert
H. Walker opposing.
Mm. JtsTicE Gr&Y, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
By the rules often laid down in former cases, and restated
at the last term in Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S. 426, and at the
present term in -Fire Insurance Association v. TViekham, ante,
426, this court cannot take jurisdiction of this case, because,
besides the manifest attempt to refer to this court for decision
substantially the whole case by the device of splitting it up
into several questions, neither of the questions certified presents a distinct point or proposition of law, clearly and
precisely stated; but each requires this court to find out
for itself the point intended to be presented, by searching
through the allegations of the answer and the provisions of
the statute relied on by the plaintiff, and by also examining
VoL. Cl-X-i-V-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

either the whole constitution of the State, or else reports or
records of decisions of its courts, referred to in the answer
and made part thereof.
The certificate is even more irregular and insufficient than
one undertaking to present the question, arising on demurrer
or otherwise, whether an indictment, or a count therein, sets
forth any offence, which this court has constantly held not
to be a proper subject of a certificate of division of opinion.
United States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208; United States v. Northway, 120 U. S. 327.
Writ of errordismissed for want of jurisdiction.

MENENDEZ v. HOLT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 77.

Argued November 14, 1S58.-

Decided December 10, 1888.

A combination of words, made by a firm engaged in mercantile business,
from a foreign language, in order to designate merchandise selected by
them in the exercise of their best judgment as being of a certain standard and of uniformity of quality, may be protected to them and for
their use as a trade-mark, and does not fall within the rule in 2fanufacturing Co. v. Trainer, 101 U. S. 51.
The addition of the infringer's name to a trade-mark in the place of the
owner's does not render the unauthorized use of it any less an infringement.
When a partner retires from a firm, assenting to or acquiescing in the retention by the other partners of the old place of business and the future
conduct of the business by them under the old name, the good-will
remains with the latter as of course.
A trade-mark may be part of the good-will of a firm, and in this case it was
part of the good-will of the appellee's firm.
A person who comes into an existing firm as a partner, and, after remaining there a few years, goes out, leaving the firm to carry on the old line
of business under the same title in which it did business both before he
came in and during the time he was a partner, does not take with him
the right to use the trade-marks of the firm, in the absence of an agreement to that effect.

