PURDY v. LANSING.
Counsel for Parties.

A writ of mandamus may properly be issued by this court,
to compel the judge of an inferior court to settle and sign
a bill of exceptions. -Ex parte Crane, 5 Pet. 190. Such a
writ does not undertake to control the discretion of the judge
as to how he shall frame the bill of exceptions, or as to how
he shall decide any point arising on its settlement; but it only
compels him to settle and sign it in some form.
The writ will issue in the teprns of the prayer of the petition,
commaanding the judge to settle the bill of exceptions tenderedby the defendant, according to the truth of the matters
which took place before him on the trial of the aforesaid
action, and, when so settled, to sign it as of the 10th day
of April, 1888, that being the day when the proposed bill
andproposed amendments were submitted to him for settleMent.

PURDY v. LANSING.
ERROR TO THE

SMOUIT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR Tn

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 906. Argued November 23, 26, 1888. -Decided

December 10, 1868.

The bonds of the town of Lansing, in the State of New York, issued to aid
in the construction of the New York and Oswego Midland Railroad, having been put out without a previous designation by the company of all
the counties through which the extension authorized by the New York
act of 1871, c. 298, would pass, were issued without authority of law, and
are invalid.

Tis was an action at law against the town of Lansing to
recover on bonds issued by it in aid of the New York and
Oswego Midland Railroad. Judgment for defendant; plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opinion.
21r. James B. Cox for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Francis Keenan for defendant in error; Mr. H.
Howland was with him on the brief.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

MIR.

TusTicE H&nTAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action upon certain bonds, with interest coupons
attached, issued in the name of the town of Lansing, in the
county of Tompkins, New York, to the New York and
Oswego Midland Railroad Company, a corporation created
by the laws of that State. The parties consenting thereto in
writing, the case was tried by the court without a jury, and
upon the special facts found there was a judgment for the
town.
The correctness of that judgment depends upon the construction to be given to the act of the legislature of New
York approved April 5, 1871, entitled "A n act to authorize
the New York and Oswego Midland Railroad Company to
extend its road, and to facilitate the construction thereof."
1 Laws of N. Y. 1871, 586, c. 298. By the first section of
that act it is provided: "The New York and Oswego Midland
Railroad Company are hereby authorized and empowered to
extend and construct their railroad from the city of Auburn,
or from any point on said road easterly or southerly from said
city, upon such route and location and through such counties
as the board of directors of said company shall deem most
feasible and favorable for the construction of said railroad, to
any point on Lake Erie or the Niagara River." After giving
authority to the company to locate, extend and construct
certain branch roads, the section continues: "and any town,
village, or city in any county, through or near which said
railroad or its branches may be located, except such counties,
towns or cities as are excepted from the provisions of the
general bonding law, may aid or facilitate the construction of
the said New York and Oswego Midland Railroad, and its
branches and extensions, by the issue and sale of its bonds in
the manner provided for in the act entitled IAn act to facilitate the construction of the INew York and Oswego Midland
Railroad, and to aqthorize towns to subscribe to the capital
stock thereof,' passed April fifth, eighteen hundred and sixtysix, and the acts amendatory of and supplementary thereto."
In .fellen v. .ansing, 20 Blatchford, 278, 286, involving

PURDY v. LANSING.
Opinion of the Court.

substantially the same questions as are here presented, and in
which case it became necessary to interpret the above statute,
it was said: "Moreover, there is an inherent defect, in the
fact that the company never, by any action of its directors,
or otherwise, designated all the counties through which the
road was to pass. Under the act of 1871, the whole extension
or branch must be located before the bonds of any town can
be issued. It is not enough that a location be made through
a particular county. So that even though the maps filed
could be regarded as a location of so much of the western
extension as was to pass through Tompkins County, there
would be no authority for issuing the bonds until the whole
extension or branch should be located. The board of directors
must in some way adopt an entire route as feasible and favorable before the town bonds can be issued. This seems to have
been the view of the Court of Appeals of New York in People v. .Morgan, 55 N. Y. 587." These views were in accordance with the previous decision by the same court in Mellen
v. .ansing, 19 Blatchford, 512, and were reaffirmed in
Thomas v..Lansing, 21 Blatchford, 119.

We are of opinion that this construction of the statute is the
proper one. The reasons therefor are fully stated in the cases
above cited, and, as they are entirely satisfactory, no good
purpose would be subserved by enlarging upon them in this
opinion. As the bonds in suit were issued without any previous action of the company designating all the counties
through which would pass the road authorized by the act of
1871 to be constructed, they must be held to have been issued
without authority of law, and cannot, therefore, be the foundation of a judgment against the town.
The judgment below is affliwied.

