31EANS v. DOWD.
Statement of the Case.

MEANS v. DOWD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 47. Argued October 30, 1888. -Decided November 19,1808.
An insolvent debtor, making an assignment for the benefit of his creditors,
cannot reserve to himself a beneficial interest in the property assigned,
or interpose any delay, or make provisions which would hinder and delay
creditors from their lawful modes of prosecuting their claims.
In this case the deed of assignment, which forms the subject of controversy,
has the obvious purpose of enabling the insolvent debtors who made it
to continue in their business unmolested by judicial process, and to withdraw everything they had from the effect of a judgment against them.
Though this bill is not sustainable under the provisions of the bankrupt act
against a preference of creditors in fraud of the act, because the proceedings were not commenced within the time prescribed by that act as
necessary to avoid a preference, yet a right is shown to relief on the
ground that the instrument was made to hinder and delay creditors.

Tins was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of North Carolina,
dismissing a bill brought by Paul B. Means, assignee in bankruptcy of Charles G. Montgomery and Charles D. Dowd,
partners, composing the firm of Montgomery & Dowd, against
Clement Dowd, A. B. Davidson, Charles G. Montgomery and
Charles D. Dowd.
On and prior to the 24th day of April, 1876, the firm of
Montgomery & Dowd carried on a mercantile business in the
town of Concord, North Carolina. About that time they became embarrassed, and on that date made a conveyance in
writing of all their goods and personal property to A. B.
Davidson and Clement Dowd of Charlotte, in the same State,
which instrument is variously called a "deed of trust," an
"assignment," or a "mortgage." Although the grantors
asserted that they did not consider themselves as being insolvent at the time, it is very evident now, in the light of subsequent circumstances, that they were entirely so. They had a
very considerable stock of goods, which does not seem to have
VOL. cxxvm-18

271-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case;

been inventoried in refereme to this transfer, and a large
amount relatively to their business was outstanding debts due
them growing out of that business. The stock of goods was
old and needed replenishino; the notes and accounts due them
were in many cases worthless and never have been paid.
They were also indebted in a large amount (quite as much
probably as they were worth), to certain banks in Charlotte
upon promissory notes, indorsed by A. B. Davidson and Clement Dowd, sometimes jointly and in other cases separately.
-Davidson was the father-in-law of Charles G. Montgomery
and the vice-president of the Merchants' and Farmers' National
Bank, one of the creditors secured by this conveyance. Clement Dowd, the other grantee, was a brothcr of Charles D.
Dowd, one of the grantors, and also president of the Commercial National Bank, a preferred creditor. W. T. Montgomery
was a brother of Charles G. Montgomery, and he and Davidson and Clement Dowd appear as indorsers upon some of the
notes set forth in the instrument referred to.
This conveyance, although made in April, was not placed
on record until the 12th day of July, 1876, thereafter, and the
grantors, Montgomery & Dowd, remained in possession and
had absolute control of the property until shortly after that
period. The instrument itself was filed as "Exhibit A," and
was as follows:
"Exhibit A.
"This indenture, made this 24th day of April, 1876, by
Chas. G. Montgomery and Chas. D. Dowd, partners, trading
under the firm and style of Montgomery & Dowd, of Concord, North Carolina, parties of the first part, and A. B.
Davidson and C. Dowd, of Charlotte, in the State aforesaid,
parties of the second part, witnesseth: That whereas the parties of the first part are indebted as follows: By a certain
promissory note, of even date with these presents, given to
the Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C., for three
thousand dollars, and endorsed by the said A. B. Davidson
and C. Dowd; also by' a certain other note to the said bank
for one thousand dollars, dated the - day of , 1876, due

.MEANS

v. DOWD.

Statement of the Case.

at sixty days, and endorsed by W. J. Montgomery; also by
another note of five hundred dollars to the said bank of even
date herewith, endorsed by C. Dowd, and due at sixty days;
also by another note to said bank of thirty-four hundred dollars, secured by customer's notes in the bands of Montgomery
& Everitt, att'ys, bearing date the -

day of -

, and due at

sixty days; also by two other notes of one thousand dollars
each to the First National Bank of Charlotte, endorsed by
A. B. Davidson, dated, respectively, on the 25th March and
5th April, 1876, and running to maturity at sixty days; also
by a note to the Merchants' & Farmers' National Bank of
Charlotte for one thousand dollars, dated the -

day of

-,

1876, at sixty days, and endorsed by A. B. Davidson; also by
another note to the last-named bank for five hundred dollars,
endorsed by W. H. Lilly; also by another note to said M. F.
National Bank for one thousand dollars, endorsed by J. R. Neisler, and by another note to said bank for five hundred dollars,
endorsed by R. S. Harris; also by a note to Martin Boyer,
Jr., - dollars, and note to D. P. Boger for ; also by a
note to J. A. Lilly for four hundred dollars:
"Now, in order to provide for the payment of the said
debts, and to indemnify and save harmless the said endorsers,
the parties of the first part do hereby bargain, sell, convey,
and transfer unto the said A. B. Davidson and C. Dowd the
following property, to wit: The entire stock of goods, wares,
and merchandise of every kind and description now in the
possession of the parties of the first part and in and about
their store in Concord, together with all the fixtures and personal property used in connection with the said store and
business; also such goods, wares, and merchandise as the
parties of the first part may purchase to renew or replenish
the said stock; also all the notes, accounts, mortgages, judgments, and other evidences of debt due and belonging to the
parties of the first part, from whomsoever and howsoever the
same may be due.
"To have and to hold the said property and the said choses
in action and evidences of debt to the said A. B. Davidson
and C. Dowd, their executors and assigns, in special trust as
follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"The said parties of the first part are to remain in the possession of the said property and choses in action and continue
to sell the goods for cash only and to collect uder the direction and control of the parties of the second part, the proceeds
to be deposited weekly in the Commercial National Bank of
Charlotte, N. C., and applied under the direction of the parties
of the second part to replenish the stock by such small bills
as may be agreed upon and to the payment of the debts of the
said firm as follows: First, after deducting and retaining the
commissions and other expenses of this trust, to the payment
of the note of three thousand dollars to the Commercial
National Bank of Charlotte, of even date herewith, endorsed
by the said A. B. Davidson and C. Dowd, the same being
given for money this day borrowed for the exclusive use and
benefit of the said firm and also to the payment of any renewal or substitution of the said note and of any other note
or notes that may hereafter be given by said firm, and endorsed by the said parties of the second part, or either of them,
not being renewals of the notes endorsed by them, or either
of them, mentioned and provided for in the next class; secondly, to the payment of all the debts hereinafter mentioned,
except the debt of three thousand dollars and other possible indebtedness hereafter to be incurred, as provided for in the first
class above named; thirdly, to the payments of all the other
indebtedness of the said firm, howsoever and to whomsoever
the same may be due, any surplus to be paid over to the
parties of the first part or their legal representatives or assigns.
"And it is further the understanding and agreement that if
any of the said debts or any renewal or substitution of them, or
any of them shall not be paid when the same shall become due,
or if, for any other cause, the parties of the second part may so
elect, then and in that case it shall be lawful for the parties of
the second part, and they are hereby expressly authorized, to
take possession of the said goods and merchandise, and all the
property and choses in action conveyed herein, and dispose of
the same at public or private sale, as they may deem best, ap'plying the proceeds as hereinbefore directed.

IEANS v. DOWD.
Statement of the Case.

"In witness whereof the parties of the first part do hereto
set their hands and seals the day and year aforesaid.
CHAs. G. MONTGOMERY. [SEAL.]
"(S'g'd)
"

CHAs. D. DowD.

W. P. SirPsoN.
"Probated July 11th, 1876.

[snTA.]

"Witness:

Registered same day."

It appeared that at the term of the Concord Superior Court,
held in July, 1876, a suit was pending against the bankrupts
in favor of Calvin Chestnut, one of the unsecured creditors,
which had been in the hands of an attorney for collection
since sometime daring the preceding April. Several of the
New York creditors also commenced proceedings during the
autumn of that year, against the insolvent firm, and obtained
judgments at the October Term of the United States Circuit
Court against Charles G. Montgomery and the firm of Montgomery & Dowd. After executions issued thereon had been
returned nulla bona, these creditors filed a bill to set aside the
deed executed by the firm as fraudulent and void.
In December, 1876, proceedings were instituted by which
the firm of Montgomery & Dowd were adjudicated bankrupts,
and the appellant, Means, was duly appointed their assignee in
bankruptcy. Very soon afterwards he commenced the present suit in the Circuit Court to set aside the conveyance above
recited as being fraudulent and void under the statute of 13
Eliz. and the United States bankrupt act. After the filing of
this bill the complainants in the first one, the New York
creditors above referred to, proved their debts in bankruptcy,
and'asserted their lien upon the assets created by the bill in
equity filed in December, 1876, and the first suit has been
considered in abeyance ever since and treated as merged inthe proceeding instituted by the assignee in bankruptcy.
To the bill brought by the assignee both of the grantors
and the grantees in the deed of assignment were made defendants, and each of them filed answers. There was the usual
denial of any fraudulent purpose in the transaction, and allegations that the parties were doing the best they could under
the circumstances to secure a proper distribution of their prop-

I
OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellees.

erty among their creditors. After considerable testimony
was taken, in which all the parties to the deed were sworn,
the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and it was from that
decree that the assignee took the present appeal.
.Mr.Henry A[. Herman for appellant.
.lr. IF

. -Flemingand -Mr. Willis B. Dowd for appellees.

I. As the second bill sets up the same equity and asks the
same relief between the same parties as the first bill still pending, the second bill should be dismissed. It is against the
policy of the law to allow multiplicity of suits between the
same parties about the same matter. All that the plaintiffs in
the first bill had to do, and such was their duty, was to amend
the bill by making the assignee a party and proceeding with
it. -Fellowsv. Hall, 3 McLean, 487; Gray v. Atlantic and
H. C. Railroad Co., 77 1N. 0. 299 and cases cited; Cdilds
v. ffartin, 69 N. 0. 120, 189, 387.
II. Where a trust has been executed before the filing of the
bill to set it aside the court will not take jurisdiction. The preferred debts were as just and meritorious as the unpreferred,
and as much entitled to be paid out of the property of the
firm. And even where an assignment is set aside for fraud
the assignee is not answerable for payments made under it, to
bona fide creditors, before the filing of the bill. Carroll v.
Johnston, 2 Jones' Eq., 120; Oheatham v. Hawkins, 76 N. C.
335.

IIl. The deed of trust not being fraudulent in law as it was
executed under the laws of North Carolina governing the subject, the construction put upon such instruments by the highest
courts of the State must control. Allen v. -Massey, 17 Wall.
351.
In Young v. Booe, 11 Iredell, 347, a deed of trust for payment of debts conveyed real and personal estate and provided
that the maker of the deed should remain in possession for
eleven months, and during that time his family might be supported out of the proceeds of the property. It was held that

MEANS v. DOWD.
Argument for Appellees.

these provisions did not make the deed fraudulent in law,
upon its face, but as the provisions might have been for the
benefit of the creditors as well as of the debtor, the question
of fraudulent intent was one upon which the jury must decide
under all the circumstances.
In Hardy v. Skdinner, 9 Iredell, 191, the trust deed stipulated
that a sale should not take place for three years, and that the
grantor should remain in possession of the property. It was
held by the court that whether the deed was fraudulent or not
was a matter for a jury, under all the circumstances, but that
the court could not, from what appeared on the face of the deed,
say it was fraudulent in point of law, because there might be
many circumstances under which such a deed would be good.
To the same effect are Lee v. .lannagan, 7 Iredell, 471; Gil'me v. Ea4.nkazrt, 1 Jones (N. C.) 559.
In C eatkam v. Hawkins, 76 N. C. 335, the rule is announced
that, "to find fraud as a matter of law, it'must so expressly
and plainly appear in the deed itself as to be incapable of explanation by evidence, dehors."
This court in Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall. 513, have laid
down substantially the same rule.
IV. If anything has been settled by judicial decisions, it is
settled by the Supreme Court of the United States, and by the
Supreme Court of North Carolina, that a deed of trust for the
benefit of creditors, like the subject of the controversy in
this case, is not fraudulent and void in law upon its face.
The possession of these grantors, such as it was, was both
proper and commendable, inasmuch as they were best qualified and most competent to close out, by sales and collections,
a stock of merchandise, in a village, where they were best
acquainted with the customers to whom they had extended
credits. So held in Tormpkins v. Wheeler. 16 Pet. 106; Dewey
v. Littlejohn, 2 Iredell Eq. 495, 507; Ptafnier v. Zrwin, 1
Iredell, 490; Irwin v. Wilson, 3 Jones Eq. 210.
V. The deed of trust was not fraudulent in fact. A. conveyance upon a valuable consideration cannot be declared
void as to creditors, though made with a fraudulent purpose
on the part of the vendor, unless the vendee participates in or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

had notice of such purpose.

Lassiter v. Davis, 64 N. C. 498;

1?eiger v. Davis, 67 N. 0. 185; Hu&Tmreys v. Ward, 74 iN. C.
784; Worthy v. Coddell, 76 N. C. 82. To the same effect is
Astor v. Wells, 4 Wheat. 466, upon the construction of the
Ohio statute, which is similar to ours. So in the most recent
case decided in the Supreme Court of the United States.
Prewit v. Tilson, 103 U. S. 22. Field, T., delivering the
opinion of the court, says: "When a deed is executed for a
valuable and adequate consideration, without knowledge by
the grantee of any fraudulent intent of the grantor, it will be
upheld, however fraudulent his purpose. To vitiate the transfer in such case, the grantee also must be chargeable with
knowledge of the intention of the grantor." p. 24.
So it is held in North Carolina, that an insolvent has a right
to prefer one or several among his creditors, although the effect
is to hinder and delay others. Zee v. Flannagan,7 Iredell,
471; Lewis v. Sloan, 68 N. C. 557; Jfislop v. Hoover,68 N. C.
141; Tompkins v. Ihreeler, 16 Pet. 106.
The federal courts will follow the decisions of the courts
of last resort in the State where conveyance is made, in passing upon its validity as to creditors. Allen v. .Afassey, 17
Wall. 351.

lifa. JusTicE MYILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We are of the opinion that, whether the case be decided
upon the face of the instrument itself, or in view of the testimony as to the conduct of the parties, the decree should
be in favor of the complainant. The principles, if not the
exact language of the statute of 13 Eliz., have been accepted
in the equitable jurisprudence of nearly all the States of common-law origin, and they are the law of North Carolina, with
a modification which is attempted to be applied to this case.
That is, that where the question of the validity of an instrument of this kind, or any other conv'eyance of property depends upon its fraudulent character, it must be shown that the
grantee participated in the fraud, and the fact that the

MEANS v. DOWD.
Opinion of the Court.

grantor alone is guilty of it is not sufficient to invalidate the
instrument.
Conceding this to be the doctrine of the State of North Carolina, we are of opinion that it can have no important application to the case before us, because the fraud here is one in
law as distinguished from actual fraud; that is to say, that
while the parties to this transaction, either grantors or grantees, probably never bad in view the ultimate loss of the debts
of the unsecured creditors by their acts, and may really have
supposed that they were taking the best means to insure payment to them all, yet the law has said that the means which
they took is to be regarded as a fraud in law by necessary
implication.
All experience has shown how very common it is for failing
or insolvent debtors, who have any considerable means on
hand, and especially in cases where a mercantile business of
considerable value is still going on, to delude themselves with
the idea that if they can get time they can pay their debts;
that if their creditors will delay until they can make such
arrangements as they believe themselves capable of, they will
be able to pay everybody, and even to save a very considerable surplus out of their business. This delusion leads them
to undertake to obtain this delay by means which the law
does not sanction. If the creditors refuse to extend time on
their obligations, and thus give them the delay which they
deem necessary, or if they fear to expose their condition to
their creditors, they adopt, in many instances, the principle of
making an absolute sale to certain friends, who will settle up
their affairs and return to them any surplus, or they make assignments or deeds of trust, conveying the title to all their
property to some trustee or assignee and vesting it in them,
thus opposing an obstruction to the efforts of creditors at law
to collect the amounts which may be due to them. In this
manner they frequently take the law into their own hands, and
attempt to secure that delay which can only be obtained by
the consent of the creditors, or by such a conveyance as leaves
the creditors in no worse condition than they were before.
It has always been held that whatever transfer of this char-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

acter, that is, of the title to property by a failing or insolvent
debtor, may be valid, any instrument which secures to the
assignor an interest in or an unlimited control over the property conveyed, and which has the effect of hindering or delaying creditors, is void as being a fraud upon those creditors.
A very similar case to the one before us was that of Griswold v. Sheldon, 4 . Y. (4 Comst.) 580, in which the court
decided that the mortgage which, besides permitting the mortgagor by its terms to retain possession of the goods, and on its
face conferred on him the power to sell and dispose of them
as his own, was, therefore, fraudulent and void in law as to
creditors.
Another decision of like character was made in Nicholson
v. Leavitt, 6 K. Y. (2 Seld.) 510, the head note of which correctly expresses what was decided in the following words:
"An assignment by insolvent debtors of their property to
trustees for the benefit of their creditors, authorizing the
trustees to sell the assigned property vpon credit, is fraudulent and void as against the creditors of the assignors."
This is founded upon the ground that such a provision has
the effect of hindering and delaying creditors.
A very instructive case, and very like the one before us, is
that of -Davis v. Ransom, 18 Illinois, 396. A chattel mortgage of a stock of goods had been made, reciting the indebtedness of the mortgagor, but with an agreement that he
should keep possession of the goods and sell them in the usual
course of trade. Out of the proceeds he was to pay certain
preferred creditors, dividing the remainder pro rata among
the others, with the right in the mortgagee to take possession
of the property under certain contingencies. This mortgage
was held void upon the principles already cited.
To the same effect is the case of Bank v. Hunt,11 Wall.
391, which cites with approval the case of G'riswold v. 2keTdon, supra.
But this whole subject has been so frequently discussed in
the American courts that it would be an immense labor to go
very extensively into the authorities. The prevailing doctrine, however, is unquestionably that which we have stated,

MIEANS v. DOWD.
Opinion of the Court.

and its fundamental essence is, that an insolvent debtor making an assignment, even for the benefit of his creditors cannot
reserve to himself any beneficial interest in the property assigned, or interpose any delay, or make provisions which
would hinder and delay creditors from their lawful modes of
prosecuting their claims.
In the case before us the whole face of the instrument has
the obvious purpose of enabling the insolvent debtors who
made it to continue in their business unmolested by judicial
process, and to withdraw everything they had from the effect
of a judgment against them; for it is shown that, except the
goods in this place of business transferred by the conveyance,
they had nothing of value but one or two pieces of real estate
encumbered by mortgage for all they were worth. It spdcifically provides that the grantors shall remain in possession of
the said property and choses in action, with the right to continue to sell the goods and collect the debts under the control
and direction of the grantees. The collections were to be deposited weekly in the Commercial National Bank of Charlotte,
N. C., and applied, under the direction of the assignees, "to
replenish the stock by such small bills as may be agreed upon,
and to the payment of the debts of the said firm," specifically
mentioned therein, being principally notes held by the banks,
indorsed by the grantees, Davidson and Dowd. It also contained a provision for the renewal of these notes, without limitation as to time, and authorizing the trustees, "if any of the
said debts or any renewal or substitution of them, or any of
them, shall not be paid when the same shall become due, or if,
for any other cause, the parties of the second part may so
elect, then and in that case it shall be lawful for the parties of
the second part, and they are hereby expressly authorized, to
take possession of the said goods and merchandise, and all the
property and choses in action conveyed herein, and dispose of
the same at public or private sale, as they may deem best,
applying the proceeds as hereinbefore directed."
It is difficult to imagine a scheme more artfully devised between insolvent debtors and their preferred creditors to enable
the former to continue in business, at the same time withdraw-

284

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

big their property used in its prosecution from the claims of
other creditors which might be asserted according to the usual
forms of law. So long as these debtors were able to pay the
interest, and keep the trustees satisfied that they were not
going to lose anything by the delay, the business could go on
and the property of the insolvent firm be safe from execution
and attachment.
The interest paid on these renewals was twelve per cent,
and as the indorsers on the notes were officers of the banks
who held the paper, as well as trustees under this assignment,
to say nothing of the fact that they were closely related to
the bankrupt debtors, it is easy to be seen that, as long as
they had security, they would be willing to renew these notes
and'indorse them on each renewal. So that by the mere expedient of paying the interest on this indebtedness Montgomery
& Dowd had it in their power to continue in their business,
whether profitable or otherwise, with a large stock of goods on
their shelves, and defy the creditors who were not protected.
The authority to take possession of the goods, even when the
trustees should deem such action proper, is accompanied by no
direction for an immediate sale or winding up of the business;
but, on the contrary, their discretion, as to whether they shall
take possession or not, and as to how or upon what terms they
shall sell, seems to be absolute, and intended even then to be
controlled for their own benefit and that of the debtors, without regard to the unsecured creditors.
The case before us is almost precisely like that of -Robinson
v. -Elliott,22 Wall. 513. In that action it appeared that John
and Seth Coolidge were partners in the retail dry goods trade
in Evansville, Indiana; that they owed the First National
Bank 87600, and a Mrs. Sloan $3174, for money previously
borrowed of her to aid them in their business. To secure to
Mrs. Sloan the payment of what was due her, and to indemnify Robinson, who was an indorser, they made to them a
chattel mortgage upon their stock of goods then in a rented
store. The mortgage, after reciting the liability of the firm to
Robinson on the notes indorsed by him, stated that it was
contemplated that. it might become necessary to renew the

MirEANS v. DOWD.
Opinion of the Court.

notes or to discount other notes. It was also stated that the
note to Mrs. Sloan might be renewed at maturity if it was
not convenient for the firm to pay it. The mortgage then
proceeded in the following language: "And' it is hereby expressly agreed that until default shall be made in the payment
of some one of said notes, or some paper in renewal thereof, the
parties of the first part may remain in possession of said
goods, wares and merchandise, and may sell the same as heretofore and supply their places with other goods, and the goods
substituted by purchase for those sold shall, upon being put
into said store, or any other store in said city, where the same
may be put for sale by said parties of the first part, be subjected to the lien of this mortgage."
Although the mortgage was duly recorded, it was held by
this court to be void under the statute of frauds of Indiana.
Section 10 of that act declared that no such assignment or
mortgage should be valid unless acknowledged "as provided
in cases of deeds of conveyance, and recorded in the recorder's
office of the county where the mortgagor resides, within ten
days after the execution thereof." Section 21 makes the further provisions: "The question of fraudulent intent in all
cases arising under the provisions of this act shall be deemed
a question of fact, nor shall any conveyance or charge be adjudged fraudulent as against creditors or purchasers solely
upon the ground that it was not founded on a valuable consideration."
This court, in a lengthy review of the effect of recording
acts, and of the doctrine of the statute of 13 Eliz., held that
the recording of the mortgage contemplated by the statute
was intended as a substitute for possession, but "was not
meant to be a protection for all the other stipulations contained in it." It was also held that the court was the proper
party to say whether on its face the mortgage was void, and
that it was so void.
It was argued in that case that there could be no such thing
as constructive fraud, because under this statute the question
of fraudulent intent was one of fact; but this court, following
the Supreme Court of Indiana, said that those provisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute of that State had not changed the law on the subject, and that the court must in the first instance determine
upon the legal effect of the written instrument, and if that be
to delay creditors, it must be rejected.
In the opinion the court said, p. 524: "But there are features engrafted on this mortgage which are not only to the
prejudice of creditors, but which show that other considerations than the security of the mortgagees, or their accommodation even, entered into the contract. Both the possession and
right of disposition remain with the mortgagors. They are to
deal with the property as their own, sell it at retail, and use
the money thus obtained to replenish their stock. There is no
covenant to account with the mortgagees, nor any recognition
that the property is sold for their benefit. Instead of the
mortgage being directed solely to the bonafde security of the
debts then existing, and their payment at maturity, it is based
on the idea that they may be indefinitely prolonged. As long
as the bank paper could be renewed, Robinson consented to be
bound, and in Mrs. Sloan's case it was not expected that the
debt would be paid at maturity, but that it would be renewed
from time to time, as the parties might agree. It is very
clear that the instrument was executed on the theory that the
business could be carried on as formerly by the continued
indorsement of Robinson, and that Mrs. Sloan was indifferent
about prompt payment. The correctness of this theory is
proved by the subsequent conduct of the parties, for the mortgagees remained in possession of the property, and bought and
sold and traded in the manner of retail dry-goods merchants
from Tuly 7th, 1871, to August '7th, 1873. . . . It hardly
need be said that a mortgage which, by its very terms, authorizes the parties to accomplish such objects is, to say the least
of it, constructively fraudulent. Manifestly it was executed to
enable the mortgagors to continue their business, and appear
to the world as the absolute owners of the goods, and enjoy all
the advantages resulting therefrom. . . . This conduct is
the result of trust and confidence, which, as Lord Coke tells
us, are ever found to constitute the apparel and cover of fraud.
Whatever may have been the motive which actuated

MEANS 'v. DOWD.
Opinion of the Court.

the parties to this instrument, it is manifest that the necessary
result of what they did do was to allow the mortgagors, under
cover of the mortgage, to sell the goods as their own, and
appropriate the proceeds to their own purposes; and this, too,
for an indefinite length of time. A mortgage which, in its
very terms, contemplates such results, besides being no security to the mortgagees, operates in the most effectual manner
to ward off other creditors; and where the instrument on its
face shows that the legal effect of it is to delay creditors, the
law imputes to it a fraudulent purpose. The views we have
taken of this case harmonize with the English common-law
doctrine, and are sustained by a number of American decisions."
Other authorities sustain this view of the subject, and the
instrument now under consideration, in the opinion of the
court, contains all the elements denounced in the case ibove
quoted of Robinson v. Elliott as proof of constructive fraud.
If we examine into the acts of the parties in connection
with this transfer, we shall see that they were in accordance
with this purpose of hindering and delaying creditors. There
was but one witness to the instrument and he was the confidential bookkeeper of the bankrupts. He states that he put
his name to it as a witness on the day that it bears date,
but that he did not read it, nor was he informed of its contents, and although it is said by some witness that the conveyance was delivered at or about the time it is dated, the grantees were not present when thiq witness put his name to it.
The law of North Carolina, like that of all other States,
provides for the recording of such instruments as this, and
that until so recorded they are not valid as against creditors
and purchasers without notice. In the present case it was
kept from record from the time of its date, the 24th of April,
until the 11th day of July thereafter. This was undoubtedly
the act of the grantees in the deed, the parties whose obligailons for the bankrupts were secured by it, and who were the
trustees appointed by it for its execution. The period it was
thus kept secret was as long as it could be with safety to
the purpose of hindering and delaying creditors; for as soon

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

as it was known'that Calvin Chestnut wasiabout to procure a
judgment, which, either by virtue of the judgment itself, or by
a levy of an execution upon the goods, would become a lien,
the paper was recorded for the undoubted purpose of preventing this result.
The bankrupts were permitted for several months to continue in the possession and control of these goods, and to deal
with them as their own, and even when the trustees did seem
to consider it necessary to interpose and take the matter into
their own hands, the manner in which they did it is open to
animadversion. It does not appear that they went in person
to the building and took possession of it or of the goods. On
the contrary they made no change in its appearance, or in the
manner of conducting the business. No sign was put up indicating that any change of ownership had taken place. The
same books were currently kept by the the same bookkeeper,
and entries were made in the same manner as before. The
two bankrupts were also employed by the assignees to conduct the business, at a salary of $100 per month each, and
they continued it in precisely the same manner as it had been
previously, with the exception of depositing the moneys arising therefrom, as they allege, in bank according to the directions of the trustees. In fact, so far as the outside public was
concerned, the whole affair was conducted before the recording
of this assignment, and until the appointment of the assignee
in bankruptcy, in the same manner that it had always been
before the conveyance was exeputed. Then it seemed to occur
to the trustees that the time had come to wind up this business, and although it was not done with any extraordinary
expedition, it is not necessary to hold that there was anything
actually fraudulent in the manner in which it was finally
accomplished.
These are circumstances which, taken in connection with
the provisions of the deed itself, show very clearly that, in'
the minds of the assignors and the assignees, one of the effects
of this instrument, and of the operations conducted under it,
was undoubtedly to hinder and delay creditors. Indeed, it is
impossible to believe that this effect was not intended by all
the parties to the deed.

EX PARTE TERRY.
Syllabus.

The suit in thisitase is not sustainable under the provision
of the bankrupt act against a preference of creditors in fraud
of the law, because the bankruptcy proceedings were not
brought within the time prescribed by that act as necessary to
avoid such preference. But a right is shown to relief on the
ground that the instrument was made to hinder and delay
creditors.
The decree of the circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, and
the case remanded to that court, with instructions to
r'efer the ease to a master, before whom the defendants, the
trustees, must accountfor the property conveyed to them by
the instrument.
In this accounting all the creditors, secured and unsecured,
ist
be brought into a concourse and held to an equal
right in distributionof thefunds arisingfrom the sale qf
the goods and the choses in action assigned to the trustees.
But in accounting with the trustees they must be credited
with what they have paid to any of the creditors, so far as
those creditors would be entitled on an equal andpro rata
distribution among all the creditors of all the assets conveyed to them by the deed of trust.

EX PARTE TERRY.
ORIGINAL.
No.6.

Original. Submitted, October 18. 188. -Decided

November 12, 1888.

This court is not required to exercise the power conferred upon it by Rev.
Stat. §§ 751-753, to inquire upon writ of habeas corpus into the cause of
the restraint of the liberty of any person who is in jail under or by color
of the authority of the United States, or who is in custody in violation
of the Constitution of the United States, if it appears, upon the petitioner's own showing, that, if brought into court, and the cause of his
commitment inquired into, he would be remanded to prison.
The power of Circuit Courts of the United States to punish contempts of
their authority is incidental to their general power to exercise judicial
functions, and the cases in which it may be employed are defined by acts
of Congress.
VOL. CxxvIm-19

