JONES v. EAST TENNESSEE &c. RAILROAD CO. 443
Counsel for Parties.

Minnesota, 72; Waters v. ioward, 1 Maryland, Ch. 112, 116.
That Mrs. Woolworth united with her husband in the writing
of December 8, 188, is clearly established. But that she ever
signed any other writing relating to the sale of the lots in
question, or authorized or directed her husband, or Kavanaugh, or any one else, to sell the lots upon the terms embodied in the writing of December 23, or that she approved or
ratified a sale to Hennessey upon such terms, is to say the
least, very doubtful under the conflicting evidence in this
cause. The Circuit Court did not, therefore, err in refusing
specific performance and dismissing the cross-bill. And as the
agreement of December 23, 1881, was not shown to be the
contract of Mrs. Woolworth, the appellees were entitled to
such a decree as was rendered on the original bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

JONES v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND GEORGIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEtNESSEE.
No. 58. Argued November 2,18.

-Decided

November 12, 1888.

When, in an action by an employ6 of a railroad company against the company to recover damages for a personal injury inflicted upon him, by
reason of an engine in motion striking him, it is conceded that the defendant company was in fault on account of the manner of running its
trains, and the defence is set up that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence, and there is conflicting evidence on that point, the plaintiff is entitled to have that question submitted to the jury.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.31r. Henry H. Ingersoll for plaintiff in error.

.Xr.William -ff.Baxter for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

MmR. JusTIcE IMNinL

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by W. C. Jones against the East
Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company to recover
damages for a personal injury inflicted upon him by his being
struck by an engine belonging to the defendant company.
The suit was originally brought in the local state court,
but was afterwards removcd by the railroad company into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Tennessee. On the trial, after considerable testimony had
been introduced on both sides, the court gave the jury the
following instruction :
"This case, gentlemen, does not come within the purview of
sub-sections [3, 4,] of section 1166 of the Code 'of Tennessee.
It must be determined upon the principles of the common law
as interpreted and administered by the Supreme Court of the
United States. It is not necessary for me to explain what
would or would not be negligence on the part of the defendant; for it may be conceded that the defendant was negligent
in running its train, without its brakes in good condition, at
a higher rate of speed than was proper or safe under the circumstances of this case, and still the plaintiff would not be
entitled to recover, simply because such negligence, if it existed, did not cause the injury complained of. In the judgment of this court, based upon the facts shown in evidence
and not controverted by the argument, touching the manner
of plaintiff's collision with defendant's engine, the plaintiff
was guilty of such contributory negligence as precludes him
from all right to recover in this action. The court therefore
instructs you to return a verdict for the defendant."
It will be seen from his language that, while the court was
of the opinion that the company was guilty of such negligence
as would render it liable in this action, it was relieved from
that liability by contributory negligence on the part of the
plaintiff. It did not, therefore, permit the jury to pass either
upon the negligence of the defendant company or the contributory negligence of the plaintiff.
The ground upon which the court based this decision is not

JONES v. EAST TENNESSEE &c. RAILROAD CO. 445
Opinion of the Court.

shown, except so far as appears from the statement in the
extract above quoted, that "upon the facts shown in evidence
and not controverted by the argument, touching the manner
of the plaintiff's collision with defendant's engine, the plaintiff was guilty of such contributory negligence as precludes
him from all right to recover in this action." It is not to be
inferred from this statement that counsel for the plaintiff conceded that he was guilty of contributory negligence; but the
court proceed upon the idea that the facts, which in its judgment were shown in evidence, not being controverted by
argument, were sufficient to establish such negligence.
The evidence is embodied in the bill of exceptions before
us, and we cannot agree with the Circuit Court that there
was such a clear case of negligence on the part of the plaintiff as to justify the court in withdrawing the whole subject
from the consideration of the jury. The plaintiff himself
states that he was in the depot of the defendant on business;
that the passenger platform was alongside the tracks, which
ran between it and the depot; there was also a side-track that
went through the dept; that he passed out of the depot by
the usual way, and was struck between the wall of the depot
and the platform. He further says that the way he was going
he could not see a train approaching from the east because
there was a car on the side-track, and he had no warning of
any approaching train, although he listened as he went out of
the depot. There is also some evidence that there was so
much noise about the place of exit from the depot that the
sound of the advancing train could not be distinguished. On
the other hand, there is some testimony to show that the
plaintiff ran carelessly through the dept; that he knew the
train was approaching, and that he might have guarded himself against it if he had stopped at the exit of the depot long
enough to have looked about him.
But we think these are questions for the jury to determine.
We see no reason, so long as the jury system is the law of the
land, and the jury is made the tribunal to decide disputed
questions of fact, why it should not decide such questions as
these as well as others. There is nothing in a case in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

it is conceded, fully and unreservedly, that the defendant company is in fault on account of the manner of running its
trains, such as the high rate of speed and other careless matters mentioned by the court in its instructions, which should
justify the court in refusing to submit to the jury the question
whether the defendant company is relieved from the liability
incurred by it, by reason of the acts of the plaintiff showing
that, in some degree, he may not have been as careful as the
most cautious and prudent man would have been.
Instead of the course here pursued a due regard for the
respective functions of the court and the jury would seem to
demand that these questions should have been submitted to
the jury, accompanied by such instructions from the presiding
judge as would have secured a sound verdict. We think the
case is covered by that of Zane v. The IYorthern Central
Railway Co., ante, 91, in which the opinion of this court was
delivered by Mr. Justice Harlan, October 22, 1888.
We forbear to discuss the facts further at this time, as we
do not wish to prejudice the case before the jury, in the further proceedings which must be had.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with instructions to grant a new trial.

POLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC
I ST. LOUIS.

ASSOCIATION

OF

ERROR TO TIE CIRCIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA AIBA.
No. 43. Argued and submitted October 29, 1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

In Alabama, when a defendant pleads specially and generally, and the
special plea contains nothing of which the defendant cannot avail himself under the general issue, an error in sustaining a demurrer to the
special plea, as it works no injury, constitutes no ground for reversal.
In Alabama a written agreement between the parties may be read in evidence without proof of its execution, unless the execution is denied by
plea, verified by affidavit.
The agreement which formed the subject of controversy in this action

