MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD

& CO.

Statement of the Case.

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD AND
NICHOLS, SHEPARD AND

COMPANY.

COMPANY v. MARSH.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
EASTERN DISTRICTO0 MICHIGAN.
Nos. 72, 95. Argued November 9, 1888.- Decided December 10, 1888.
Letters-patent for an invention, issued without the signature of the Secretary of the Interior, have no validity, although in every other respect
the requirements of law may be complied with, and although the issue
without the Secretary's signature was unintentional, accidental and unknown to the Department of the Interior or to the patentee; but this
omission may be supplied by the Secretary or Acting Secretary of the
Interior at the time when the correction is made, and from that time forward the letters operate as a patent for the invention claimed.
An accounting for profits in a suit in equity to restrain an infringement of
letters-patent can only be had when the infringement complained of took
place before the suit was commenced and continued afterwards.
The act of February 3, 1887, c. 93, "for the relief of Elon A. Marsh and
Minard Lefever," 24 Stat. 378, has no retroactive effect.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This is a suit in7 equity for the infringement of an alleged
patent of the United States, which, it is averred, was obtained
by the complainant Marsh and his assignee and co-complainant,
Lefever, for a new and useful improvement in steam-engine
valve-gear, with a prayer that the defendant corporation may
be required to account for and pay over to the complainants
the profits acquired by it and damages sustained by them by
its unlawful acts, and be enjoined from further infringement.
The bill sets forth that the alleged patent was obtained on the
28th day of December, 1880, and was in due form of law,
under the seal of the Patent Office of the United States,
signed by the Secretary of the Interior, countersigned by the
Commissioner of Patents, and dated on that day and year.
The answer of the defendant to these allegations is, that it

knows nothing of the issue of the patent, except as informed

OCTOBER TERMl,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

by the bill or by hearsay, and, therefore, neither admits nor
denies them, but leaves the complainants to make such proofs
thereof as they may deem advisable. A replication having
been filed to the answer, proofs were taken, among which
there was put in evidence an instrument in the form of a
patent of the United States, purporting to be signed "A. Bell,
Acting Secretary of the Interior," and countersigned and
sealed as alleged in the bill. By stipulation of the parties certain facts were admitted with reference to this instrument and
allowed to be considered, "so far as relevant, competent or
material, on any motion or at any stage of the cause, including final hearing." The facts thus admitted were substantially
these: That the instrument was received from the Patent
Office by the complainants Marsh and Lefever (the parties
named therein as patentees) on or about January 2, 1881, in
all respects in the same condition as it now is, save that the
words "A. Bell" were not thereon where they now appear;
that the signature to it of E. M . Marble, Commissioner of
Patents and the seal of the Patent Office are genuine; that
neither of the complainants nor their counsel knew of the
omission of the signature of the Secretary of the Interior to
the instrument, but supposed it was in all respects regular,
their attention never having been called to the same until on
or about February 12, 1882, long after the commencement of
the present suit; that on or about February 17 following, it
was sent by the solicitor of the complainants to the Patent
Office at Washington, accompanied by a request of the complainants Marsh and Lefever to have the mistake corrected;
and that on or about February 24 it was returned to the solicitor signed "A. Bell, Acting Secretary of the Interior," but
without any other change.
A letter dated April 28, 1882, from E. M. Marble, who was
the Commissioner of Patents when the instrument was issued,
was also admitted in evidence. The letter set forth the various steps taken by Marsh and Lefever to obtain a patent for
the invention claimed, and by the officers of the Patent Office
in preparing, executing and delivering it to them; and shows
that every requirement of the law and of the regulations of

MARSH v. NICHOLS,

SHEPARD & CO.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the Patent Office was complied with when the instrument was
issued, except the affixing to it of the signature of the Acting
Secretary of the Interior, and that its omission, as established
by the history and record of the case, was purely accidental,
and probably was caused by the instrument being inadvertently laid aside or withdrawn from before the Acting Secretary while he was engaged in signing patents.
The Circuit Court held that the signature of the Secretary
of the Interior was essential to render the instrument operative as a patent of the United States for the invention claimed;
that until thus signed it was not only a defective instrument,
but was entirely void; and therefore that the suit could not be
maintained; and it dismissed the bill. Its decree was entered
on the 16th of April, 1883, and from it the complainants on
the 26th of February, 1885, took an appeal to this court.
Subsequently, and on the 3d of February, 1887, Congress
passed an act for the relief of the patentees, reciting in its
preamble the issue to them on the 28th of December, 1880, of
the letters-patent mentioned in due form of procedure, except
that by accident or mistake they were not signed by the Secretary of the Interior and that they were signed by the then
Acting Secretary on February 24, 1882, and declaring as follows:
"That the letters-patent named in the preamble of this act
are hereby and by this act made legal, valid, complete and
operative, in law and equity, from the twenty-eighth day of
December, eighteen ,hundred and eighty, to the same extent
and for the same term that the same would have been legal,
valid, complete and operative if the signature of the Secretary
of the Interior -had, at the time of the supposed issue of said
letters-patent on the day aforesaid, been placed thereon, and
the omission of said signature thereon had not occurred: Provided, however, That the provisions of this act shall not be
held or construed to apply to or affect any suits now pending,
nor any cause of action arising prior to its passage." 24 Stat.
378, c. 93.
Xr. B. A. Parker for Marsh and Lefever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

I. Defendant could not impeach complainants' patent, "Exhibit A," for the supposed irregularity in its signing and
issue, it not being apparent on its face thereof, without pleading such defence. Railway Register X anuf'g. Co. v. North
-Hudson Railroad,23 Fed. Rep. 593; .Moorehead v. Jones, 3
Wall. Jr. 0. C. 306.
II. The patent in question being regular on its face, no evidence is competent to show that the signatures, seal or attestation of the issuing thereof was irregular, or to contradict the
facts stated on its face, whether they were pleaded or not.
1 Greenlf. Ev. 275 n. ; Ross v. XecLung, 6 Pet. 283 ; JKavanaugh
v. -Day, 10 R. I. 393; Jamieson v. Jamieson, 3 Whart. 457;
Stringer v. Young, 3 Pet. 319, 341 ; Doughty v. West, 6 Blatchford, 429; Philadephia & Trenton Railroadv. Stimyson, 14
Pet. 448; Eureka Co. v. Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 488; Rv t5ber Co.
v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788; Giant Powder Co. v. Safety iVitroPowder Co., 19 Fed. Rep. 509.
III. If the regularity of issue of said patent is open to attack in this cause by the evidence produced, I respectfully submit that such facts do not constitute an impeachment of its
validity, or of the date when the protection to the inventor
began and ends. In other words, the signing by the Assistant
Secretary of the Interior, in its legal effect, was neither irregular nor invalid. United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378;
Woodworth v. Hall, 1 Woodb. & Min. 389; Butterworth v.
Hloe, 112 U. S.50; Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, 231; Evans
v. Jordan,1 Brock. 252; Bell v. Hearne,19 How. 252; N. Tf.
Fire Extinguisher Co. v. Phila.Fire Extinguisher Co., 6 Off.
Gaz. 34; Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646; ZSew York &
Maryland Railroadv. TWinans, 17 How. 30; Groner v. Smith,
49 lissouri, 318; Shumate v. Reavis, 49 Missouri, 333; Vinston v. Affalter, 49 Missouri, 263; -MeGarrahanv. -Mining
Co., 96 U. S.316; Bissell v. Spring 7alley Township, 110
U. S.169; Weyauwega v. Ayling, 99 U. S.112.
IV. If the complainants' patent only became valid at the
date of its signing by the Secretary of the Interior, February
24th, 1882, then we respectfully submit that the decree was
erroneous, and that complainants were entitled to an injunc-

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of final hearing, and an accounting from the date when
said patent became valid. l oodworta v. Stone, 3 Story, 749;
Reedy v. Scott, 23 Wall. 352; Sarven, v. Hall, 5 Fish. Pat.
Cas. 415; Butler v. Ball, 38 Off. Gaz. 420; Jones v. Sewall, 6
Fish. Pat. Cas. 343.
V. But if it should be found that the validity of the patent
in question must depend solely upon the curative effect of the
act of Congress already quoted, then we respectfully submit
that such act, Congress having the power, makes this patent
valid from its original date, December 28th, 1880, and cures
all the irregularities; and this without regard to the proviso
annexed thereto, the same being invalid; and that therefore
such act must govern this court in its decision in this action.
Blanehard v. Sprague, 2 Story, 164, 170; Evans v. Eaton, 3
Wheat. 454; Tilghman v. Proctor, 102 U. S. 707; Jones v.
Sewall, 6 Fish. Pat. Cas. 343; Watson v. .Mercer, 8 Pet. 88;
Yeaton v. United States, 5 Cranch, 281; Randall v. lreiger,
23 Wall. 137, 148; State v. Norwood, 12 Maryland, 195; Cam,
meyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386.
Xr'. C'arles F. Burton for Nichols, Shepard and Company.
MM. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In support of their appeal the appellants contend in substance as follows:
1st. That the defendant could not impeach the patent for
the irregularity in its signing and issue, this not being apparent on its face, without pleading such defence and regularly
putting the question in issue;
2d. That the patent being regular on its face, evidence to
show that the signature was irregularly placed to it was
incompetent;
3d. That the correction of the omission in the patent was
within the power of the Acting Secretary of the Interior at
the time; that when the omission was thus remedied the
patent was operative from its original date, or, at least, from
VOL. cxvm--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the date of the correction, February 24, 1882; and that the
complainants were, even in this latter view, entitled to an
accounting from that date;
4th. That if the patent did not become valid from its date
on the subsequent signature by the Acting Secretary of the
Interior, then the act of Congress of February 3, 1887, cured
all irregularities in the signing of the patent, made it valid
from its date, and must govern the decision in this court.
The first three positions may be considered together.
It is undoubtedly true, as a general rule, that a patent of
the United States, whether for land or for an invention, can be
attacked for defects, not apparent on its face, only by regular
proceedings instituted for that purpose, and is not open to
collateral attack, except where specially provided by statute.
Eurek Co. v. Bailey Co., 11 Wall. 488, 492. But this rule
applies only to those cases where the patent has been in fact
executed, and the authority of the officers to issue the same
was complete. In such cases the impeachment must be by
pleadings setting up the specific acts which, it is alleged,
vitiate and defeat the instrument. It is always open to show
that an instrument produced in evidence, whether in an action
at law or in a suit in equity in support of a claim or defence,
was never executed by the person whose signature it bears,
but that it is a simulated and forged document. And when
the time of execution is material to the enforcement of the
instrument, it is competent to show the date when the signature of the party was attached. Antedating cannot be used
to cut off existing rights or defences of third parties which
would not be impaired or defeated if the true date was given.
With respect to patents for land we have had frequent
occasion to assert their inviolability against collateral attack,
where the Land Department had jurisdiction, and the land
formed part of the public domain, and the law provided for
their sale. But we have also held that if the land patented
was never the property of the United States, or had been
previously sold, or reserved for sale, or the officers had no
authority to execute the instrument, the fact could be shown
in any action or proceeding whenever the patent is offered

MARSH v. NICHOLS,

SHEPARD & CO.

Opinion of the Court.

in evidence. Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 641; Steel
v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447, 452, 453; M3ahtn v. -Harwood,
112 U. S. 354, 358. And so also may the fact be shown, if
the instrument itself was never signed by the officers whose
names are attached to it, or when they were in office, or at
the time stated. As was said in a case lately before this
court, antedating by an agent after his power has been
revoked, so as to bind his principal, "partakes of the character of forgery, and is always open to inquiry, no matter who
relies upon it." .Antliony v. Ja&per County, 101 U. S. 693,
699. The same doctrine applies when a patent is signed by
an officer of the Patent Office, or Land Department, after he
has gone out of office. His power to give effect to his acts
as an officer of the government is then at an end, and no
efficacy can be imparted by antedating them, even though
the act be the correction of a mere mistake or omission. The
mistake or omission must stand in the condition he left it so
far as he is concerned, with all its consequences. If corrected
at all, it must be by officers in power at the time of the
correction, who have succeeded to his authority.
This doctrine has special force in its application to a patent
for an invention. A patent for land has, in the legislation of
Congress, a twofold operation. It conveys the title where
previously that remained in the United States; but where
issued upon the recognition and confirmation of a claim to
a previously existing title, it is evidence of record of the
existence of that title, or of equities respecting the land
requiring recognition by a quit-claim from the government.
It always imports that the government conveys, or has previously conveyed, interests in the lands, something which it at
the time owns, or its predecessor once owned. And, by the
proceedings previous to its issue, there is created in the
claimant an equitable right to the conveyance of the legal
title, or his right to such title is so established that he can
enforce it against others who, with notice of his claims, may
have obtained the patent. Langdeau v. Hanes, 21 Wall. 521,
529. But the patent for an invention conveys nothing which
the government owns or its predecessors ever owned. The

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

invention is the product of the inventor's brain, and if made
known would be subject to the use of any one, if that use
were not secured to him. Such security is afforded by the
act of Congress when his priority of invention is established
before the officers of the Patent Office, and the patent is
issued. The patent is the evidence of his exclusive right to
the use of the invention; it therefore may be said to create
a property interest in that invention. Until the patent is
issued there is no property right in it, that is, no such right
as the inventor can enforce. Until then there is no power
over its use, which is one of the elements of a right of property in anything capable of ownership. In Gayler v. Wilder,
10 How. 47, 493, this subject was to some extent considered,
when the court, by Chief Justice Taney, said: "The inventor
of a new and useful improvement certainly has no exclusive
right to it until he obtains a patent. This right is created
by the patent, and no suit can be maintained by the inventor
against any one for using it before the patent is issued." And
again: "The monopoly did not exist at common law, and
the rights, therefore, which may be exercised under it cannot be
regulated by the rules of the common law. It is created by the
act of Congress, and no rights can be acquired in it unless authorized by statute, and in the manner the statute prescribes."
Section 4883 of the Revised Statutes prescribes the manner
in which patents for inventions shall be attested. It declares
that "all patents shall be issued in the name of the United
States of America, under the seal of the Patent Office, and
shall be signed by the Secretary of the Interior and countersigned by the Commissioner of Patents, and they shall be
recorded, together with the specifications, in the Patent Office
in books to be kept for that purpose." The 'signatures of
all the officers here named must be attached to the instrument, or it will be an uncompleted document, and therefore
ineffectual to confer "the exclusive right to make, use and
vend the invention ,ordiscovery throughout the United States
and the Territories thereof." The omission of one signature
is no more permissible than the omission of all. On this point
we have a pertinent adjudication in .efcGairahan v. Xining

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Cornzany, 96 U. S. 316, 321. There the question arose as to
the validity of an instrument as a patent for land of the United
States, which had not been countersigned by the Recorder of
the General Land Office. The law then in force respecting
patents for land issued by the General Land Office provided
that they should be issued in the name of the United States
under the seal of said office, and be signed by the President
of the United States, or by a secretary appointed by him for
that purpose, and countersigned by the Recorder of the General Land Office, and be recorded in said office in books to be
kept for that purpose; and the court held that the fact the
instrument was not countersigned by the Recorder of the
General Land Office was fatal to its validity, and that the instrument did not become operative as a patent until it was
attested by all the parties named in the statute. Until then
the United States had not executed a patent for a grant of
lands. In deciding the case the court, by Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, said: "Each and every one of the integral parts of the
execution is essential to the perfection of the patent. They
are of equal importance under'the law, and one cannot be dispensed with more than another. Neither is directory, but all
are mandatory. The question is not what, in the absence of
statutory regulations, would constitute a valid grant, but what
the statute requires. Not what other statutes may prescribe,
but what this dces. Neither the signing nor the sealing nor
the countersigning can be omitted, any more than the signing
or the sealing or the acknowledgment by a grantor, or the
attestation by witnesses, when, by statute, such forms are prescribed for the due execution of deeds by private parties for
the conveyance of lands. It has never been doubted that in
such cases the omission of any of the statutory requirements
invalidates the deed. The legal title to lands cannot be conveyed except in the form provided by law."
This decision is as applicable to a patent for an invention as
it is to a patent for lands, and in accordance with it the instrument issued to the complainants Marsh and Lefever for the
invention they claim was not, at the time it was issued, by
reason of the absence of the signature of the Secretary of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Interior, operative to create any right in them. But though
the instrument was thus inoperative, they were not barred
from afterwards obtaining a correction of it so as to render it
effective as a patent, to which they had become entitled.
Where mistakes are committed by officers of the Land Department in issuing evidence of a claimant's rights, not
amounting to errors of judgment in the exercise of judicial
discretion, but which are the result of accident or inadvertence, they may be remedied upon proper application to the
Department. We have an instance of such action in the case
of Bell v. Eearne, 19 BHow. 252, 262. It there appeared that
a patent for land was issued to one James Bell, whilst the
records of the office showed that one John Bell was the applicant, and the party entitled to it. Some years after it was
received by James Bell, he returned it to the General Land
Office, and upon an examination of the records of the Department, and being satisfied therefrom of the original mistake in
the designation of the first name of the party entitled to the
patent, the Commissioner of the General Land Office cancelled
the original patent and issued a new one to John Bell; and
the question before the court was as to the power of the Commissioner to receive the original patent and to issue a new one,
upon which question the court said: "The Commissioner of
the General Land Office exercises a general superintendence
over the subordinate officers of his department, and is clothed
with liberal powers of control, to be exercised for the purposes
of justice, and to prevent the consequences of inadvertence,
irregularity, mistake and fraud in the important and extensive
operations of that officer for the disposal of the public domain.
The power exercised in this case is a power to correct a clerical mistake, the existence of which is shown plainly by the
record, and is a necessary power in the administration of every
department."
It is true the omission of the signature of the Acting Secretary of the Interior to the instrument issued to the complainants Marsh and Lefever was not a mere clerical error, but an
omission of a signature essential to the creation of the instrument as a patent, being in that respect like the omission of a

MARSH v. NICHOLS, SHEPARD & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

grantor's name to a deed. A clerical error, as its designation
imports, is an error of a clerk or a subordinate officer in transcribing or entering an official proceeding ordered by another.
But we have no doubt that the power of the department to
prevent the consequences of inadvertences and mistakes in its
officers extends so far as to remedy an omission like the one
under consideration. The manner of affording the remedy is
the only question in such cases. Clearly, it must be by the
action of existing officers of the department, not by former
officers, who have gone out of office. K,r. Schurz, who was
Secretary of the Interior when the instrument in question was
issued, could not have supplied the omission by signing the
document when it was returned to the Department for that
purpose in February, 1882, for he was then no longer in office.
Mr. Kirkwood had succeeded him as Secretary, and was then
in office. He could undoubtedly have taken up the application of the complainants Marsh and Lefever, and having found
upon examination that they were entitled, by proceedings and
proofs already had in the department, to the patent, have
signed the instrument and delivered it to them in a perfected
form. This official duty, however, appears to have been performed by Mr. Bell, who was Acting Secretary under him, as
he.had been under Secretary Schurz. The omission in the instrument as originally issued was thus supplied. The Revised
Statutes (ยง177) provide that in the case of the death, resignation, absence, or sickness of the head of any department, the
first or sole assistant thereof shall, except in certain cases re-'
ferred to, (not material here,) perform the duties of such head
until a successor is appointed or such absence or sickness shall
cease. The signing of the instrument by Mr. Bell as Acting
Secretary implies that one of the conditions on which he was
authorized to act in that capacity had arisen. With his signature added the instrument was complete. No other signature
was required, the same person who signed it as Commissioner
of Patents still continuing in office. The only embarrassment
from completing the instrument in this way arises from its
date. The signature, which completed its execution, was
attached February 24, 1882, whilst its date is December 28,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

1880, more than thirteen months before. The statute declares
that "every patent shall bear date as of a day not later than six
months from the time at which it was passed and allowed and
notice thereof was sent to the applicant or his agent." Rev.
Stat. ยง 4885. This provision was intended to prescribe the
date on which the patent would begin to run; but should any
question arise in the future as to the duration of this patent,
the time at which its execution was completed by the signature of the Acting Secretary may be proved. It would have
been well if the date of the signing had been added to his signature, or in some way indicated on the instrument itself, so
that it might have gone upon the records of the Patent Office;
as from that time only could the instrument operate as a patent
for the invention claimed, unless greater efficacy was imparted
to it by the act of Congress, which we shall presefitly consider.
The position that an accounting for profits earned subsequently could be claimed in this suit is not tenable. An
accounting for such profits after suit can be demanded only
where the infringement complained of took place previously
and continued afterwards.
As to the act of Congress passed February 3, 1887, for the
relief of the appellants, only a few words need be said. It
may be conceded that the defect arising from the omission of
the Secretary's signature to the instrument is- cured as to the
future by that act, but it contains a proviso which excepts its
provisions from applying to or affecting any suits then pending, or any cause of action arising prior to its passage. It is
evident that Congress did not intend to give to the act any
retroactive effect, and to prevent such a construction inserted
the proviso, thus limiting the extent of its operation. Wcaymn
v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 30. As thus limited, the act, as well
observed by counsel, is in harmony with the law relating to
reissues, allowing the inventor upon the surrender of his
patent with a defective specification to have a new patent for
the remainder of his term.
For the reasons expressed it follows that
The decree below must Ze afirmed; and the cross appeal,
being from rulings in the exclusion of evidence offered
with respect to the alleged iinfringement,must be dismissed.

