OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 15. Submitted October 12,1888. -Decided November 5, 1888.
When a person, who has been in the babit of dealing with an agent, has no
knowledge of the revocation of hils authority, he is justified in acting
upon the presumption of its continuance.
A court of equity will not enjoin a judgment at law, unless it is shown that
the complainant was prevented from resorting to a legal defence by
fraud or unavoidable accident, without fault or negligence on his part;
but it will do so if the matters set up in the bill, as a ground of relief,
constitute equities as a defence in the action at law.
In the United States courts a recovery in ejectment can be had upon the
strict legal title only, and a court of law will not uphold or enforce an
equitable title to land as a defence in such action.
On the only issue of fact raised by the pleadings, the allegations of the bill
are sustained by the proof.

THIS was a suit in equity brought in the United States Circuit Court in 1883 by the appellees, George Christian and Jerry
Stuart, against the appellant, Joel Johnson, praying an injunction to restrain him from enforcing a judgment in ejectment
which he obtained in that court against said appellees, for the
recovery of certain lands in their possession, and to quiet their
title to said lands against the claims of said appellant.
The bill alleged that one Julia J. Johnson, on the 8th day
of MVlarch, 1871, as guardian of appellant, then a minor, loaned
through her agent, Lycurgus L. Johnson, to one James F.
Robinson, out of the funds of said appellant, $9387.95, for
which said James F. Robinson delivered to said Lycurgus L.
Johnson notes for the amount, payable to Mrs. Julia J. Johnson, as guardian; and to secure said loan executed to Johnson
a deed of trust conveying to him. as trustee, for said Julia J.
Johnson, as guardian for appellant, certain lands therein described, with the usual power of sale upon failure to pay the
aforesaid notes when due; that after this transaction the said
appellees bargained for and purchased from Robinson a tract

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
Statement of the Case.

of 500 acres, being part of the land conveyed by the aforesaid trust deed, the said complainants agreeing to pay therefor
120 bales of cotton, which they averred to be a fair and adequate consideration, and the full value of the lands.
The bill further alleged that the said purchase was made
with the fall knowledge and consent of the said Lycurgus L.
Johnson, who, in his capacity as said trustee and also as general agent of the said Julia J. Johnson, as guardian aforesaid,
agreed and contracted that if the complainants would pay
over to the said Julia J. Johnson the price agreed to be paid
for said lands according to the terms of the purchase from
Robinson as above stated, the amount should be credited on
the debt of Robinson, and the said tract purchased by them
should be released from the deed of trust. That this contract
and agreement of her said trustee and agent was ratified and
confirmed by the said Julia J. Johnson, as guardian, who received the entire consideration agreed by them to be paid for
said land, with a full knowledge of and acquiescence in said
contract and agreement. That the said complainants had, in
accordance with the stipulations and requirements of said
trustee and agent, paid over the price agreed for said 500 acres
of land, every dollar of the proceeds of which had gone to
said Julia J. Johnson, as guardian of appellant, who had since
then become of age.
The complainants further stated, that afterward, the said
Lycurgus L. Johnson having departed this life, his administrators advertised and sold, under the deed of trust, all the lands
mentioned therein, including the said tract of 500 acres bought
and paid for by complainants; anfd that they were bought in
by the defendant, Joel Johnson, who was then of lawful age.
That afterwards said defendant, claiming by virtue of said
sale and purchase, instituted his suit in ejectment on the law
side of the court, and that the complainants not being admitted
to interpose in said ejectment suit their equitable defence to
the same, he did at the
term
188 obtain a judgment
in ejectment against them, and now seeks to oust them of the
possession of said lands by writ of possession founded on said
judgment.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

The prayer of the bill was, that the judgment in ejectment
may be enjoined, and that the title of the complainants may
be quieted, and such further relief, etc.
Joel Johnson in his answer denied that said Lycurgus L.
Johnson was the agent and business manager of said guardian,
M[rs. Julia J. Johnson, or that he acted as such in and about
her business as guardian; and asserted that if any contract or
agreement, such as that alleged ini the bill, was made with said
appellees by said Lycurgus L. Johnson, it was not made with
the knowledge or by the authority of said Julia J. Johnson,
as guardian aforesaid, expressed or implied, nor in any manner recognized or ratified by her receipt of any of the consideration paid by said appellees for said land with knowledge of
any such contract or agreement. Further answering, he said,
"That if complainants are not protected by their vendor it
will be a great wrong to them, but one for which this
defendant is not in any manner responsible."
The complainant filed a general replication to this answer.
A preliminary injunction was granted, which the court, on
final hearing, made perpetual. From this decree the defendant appealed.
i-tr. Attorney General and J1.
lant.

1). ff. Reynolds for appel-

The bill in this case states thai; the appellees were not admitted to make their defence in the action of ejectment. The
orderly way for them was, if standing on equitable rights
alone, to have submitted tb judgment in that action, before
proceeding to enforce their supposed equities. Conway v. Ellison, 14 Arkansas, 360; Herndo v. Higgs, 15 Arkansas, 389,
392; -Dickson v. Ricluzrdson, 16 Arkansas, 114; Earle v.
Hale, 31 Arkansas, 4-73. This, however, was not done, but it
seems some effort was made by them to interpose their defence, but they were not admitted to do so. Effort must have
been made to put in the defence, but what that consisted of is
not shown, unless the bill itself contains it. There is nothing
in the record to show that any certain defence was offered by

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
Opinion of. the Court.

the parties, and ruled by the court to be out of place as being
equities or equitable defences. Taking, then, the bill to contain
all there is of a defence, is it in its nature an equitable defence? Or could it not have been admitted in the action of
ejectment? To maintain the suit in ejectment by Johnson,
he must have shown, 1st, a legal estate in himself ; 2d, right
of entry; 3d, defendants in possession. Daniel v. Lefevre, 19
Arkansas, 201. Johnson held a deed for the lands under the
trust sale, and appellees held one from Robinson, and appellees
were in possession and claimed they were entitled to hold
because of their deed, and having paid for the land, as they
agreed with Robinson to do; therefore the dispute was
squarely on the legal estate and the right of entry. -Why
could not these things be contested at law as well as in equity?
These are of the very matters that law passes upon, and not
equity. These are legal questions, pure and simple; and there
is no averment in the bill, or allegation anywhere, that they
were prevented from interposing their defence by accident of
any kind, or by the fraud of appellant, and the suit should
have been dismissed. Goulsby v. St. John, 25 Grattan, 146;
Hend'ickson v. Hfinckley, 17 How. 443; -nstwance Co. v.
Bangs, 103 U. S. 780; C(rim v. Handley, 94 . . 652; lTerey
v. Tatlins, 18 Arkansas, 546, 551; Mu2phy v. Hlarbison, 29
Arkansas, 340.
-Y'. T. 2. Rose for appellees.
MR.

JUSTicE

L~mAn, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only issue of fact raised by the pleadings relates to the
agency of Lycurgus L. Johnson for Mrs. Julia J. Johnson, in
her capacity as guardian of appellant, in the loan of the funds
of her ward to Robinson upon the security binding the real
estate of Robinson, and the subsequent transactions with appellees as vendees of a part of that land; and upon this point
we are of opinion that the allegations of the bill are abundantly sustained by the proof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
,Opinion of the Court.

James F. Robinson, the vendor of the appellees, testified
substantially that he knew that Mr. Johnson acted as the
agent for Mrs. Julia J. Johnson, in her capacity as guardian
of Joel Johnson, in some matters, and especially in the loan of
the money to him; that about the 1st- of January, 1871, he
borrowed from Mrs. Julia J. Johnson, as guardian of Joel
Johnson, the sum of $9387.95 ; made the negotiation with Mr.
Lycurgus L. Johnson, exelu& vely; and that he had no recollection of ever having talked with Mrs. Johnson about the
matter until after the death of Mr. L. L. Johnson. All the
transactions in regard to this loan were made with Mr. L. L.
Johnson, or under his direction. At the time he negotiated
the loan of $9387.95 he executed, jointly with his wife, Mary
F. Robinson, a deed of trust on certain lands to Mr. L. L.
Johnson, as trustee, to cover said loan. And in his crossexamination on this point he states that he does not think
Mrs. Johnson was present at the time the loan was made.
Believes she was not present. Mr. Johnson delivered to witness a check for the loan. It was her check, he thinks. Saw
from the records in the recorder's office that Mrs. Johnson
signed the deed of trust to secure the loan. Referring to the
transaction with appellees, he says he was acquainted with the
plaintiffs in the case.

.

.

.

Part of the lands embraced in

the deed of trust were subsequently sold by himself and wife
to the plaintiffs in this suit. When he was negotiating the
sale with the plaintiffs, which was about a year after he borrowed the money, he told them there was a deed of trust on
the land held by Mr. L. L. Johnson. He went with either
Christian or Stuart-he does not remember which, possibly
either or both-to see Mr. Johnson about the matter, and
Mr. Johnson agreed with them and himself (Robinson) that,
upon the payment to him, acting for Mrs. Johnson, or to
Mrs. Johnson herself, of the purchase money agreed upon, he
would quit-claim to them the land. The plaintiffs have paid
for the land the price agreed upon, which was 120 bales of
cotton, 420 or 425 pounds each. The purchase price was all
paid in cotton, excepting $1035, which was paid in money by
Mr. W. W. Ford, which sum was the estimated value of some

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

thirty odd bales of cotton, balance then due. The plaintiffs
not having the cotton ready, and being anxious to complete
their payments and perfect their title to the land, he agreed
that the balance of cotton due him might be paid in money, at
the market value of cotton at that time. Mir. Ford made the
valuation, and paid the money to Mrs. Johnson for them. In
his cross-examination on this point he says that the object of
the visit of himself with the plaintiffs to see Mr. Johnson was
to convince the plaintiffs that upon the payment of the purchase price for the land, they would get a good title to the
place. Mr. Johnson agreed that, upon the payment of the
purchase money for the place he would release any claim
that he might have against the property as trustee; he supposed that Mr. Johnson was acting for Mrs. Johnson at that
time, as he had been previously and did afterwards. In his reexamination he states that he thinks he informed Mr. Johnson
of every pound of cotton received from the plaintiffs, directed
him how to ship it, and such of the cotton shipped to his own
account was shipped with his consent, with the understanding
that the proceeds were to be turned over to Mrs. Johnson, or
to Mr. Johnson for her.
His testimony as to the payment of the purchase money to
Mrs. Johnson, and her acceptance of it as paid in consideration
of the land purchased by the appellees under the agreement,
is fully corroborated by the testimony of W. W. Ford, who
testifies that he was a merchant and near neighbor of Mrs.
Johnson, and made out the accounts current, and kept the accounts for Mrs. Johnson. The settlement of Mrs. Johnson as
guardian, filed in the Probate Court, was made out by witness
from data furnished by Mrs. Johnson. He also made out the
statement of the account marked "Exhibit B." It contains
all the items of account between James F. Robinson and Mrs.
Julia J. Johnson as guardian of Joel Johnson. There are in
that statement four items of credit on said loan that witness
can trace to Christian and Stuart as payments on their purchase from Major Robinson, to wit, $431.99; $1035, $804.53,
$1000. This statement was made oat from his own knowledge, and from information furnished by Mrs. Johnson. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

item of $1000 was paid to her by Lycurgus L. Johnson, and
repaid to him by cotton from Christian and Stuart, appellees.
Credit was indorsed on the note by Mrs. Johnson herself.
She told witness he paid it. The item $431.99 was received
from Christian and Stuart in cotton, and witness knows she
got the money. The $1035 witness paid for Christian and
Stuart. In the spring of 1879 the plaintiffs came to witness
and asked him to pay for them the balance on their purchase
of the land from Robinson. This amount was settlement in full
of balance by Major Robinson with plaintiffs for their land.
The valuation of the cotton was made by witness with the
consent of Robinson and Christian and Stuart. Witness had
told Mrs. Johnson that plaintiffs owed a balance of $1035 for
the purchase money of lands they had purchased from Major
Robinson, and that witness was going to pay it for them.
She afterwards sent to witness for the money, and he paid it.
Plaintiffs gave witness their note for the amount.
Numerous other witnesses sustained the testimony of Robinson and Ford. The appellant only introduced the deposition
of his guardian in support of the denials in the answer. Mis.
Johnson denies that she authorized her. brother, L. L. Johnson, to transact any business for her with Major Robinson;
states that he refused to have anything further to do with
the business; that he never acted as her agent as guardian;
that she never authorized any one to make a promise to the
plaintiffs that their lands should be released from the deed of
trust upon paying the price they had agreed to pay for the
same; that if her brother, L. L. Johnson, did receive cotton
from plaintiffs it was without her knowledge, and that Mr.
Ford never paid any money for plaintiffs on account of said
loan.
Upon this testimony we see no grounds for disturbing the
decree of the court below. The denial on the part of Mrs.
Johnson of her brother's agency, owing to her imperfect conception as to what constitutes an agent and to her vague recollection of her own acts, is contradicted by the facts of which
she herself testifies, and by the account marked "1Exhibit B,"
made out under her direction, in which the receipts of the pay-

JOHNSON v. CHRISTIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ment by cotton of the appellees are set out, the last of which
is the item of $1035 cash for balance on demand against Stuart
and Christian, thus recognizing the receipts of the cotton and
the validity of the preceding payments made to her brother,
as her agent, and received by herself. Her denial of his authority to make a promise to the plaintiffs that their land
should be released from the deed of trust upon their paying
the price they had agreed to pay for the same, is contradicted
by her subsequent declaration in these words: "I did say to
my brother that if these men would pay the three thousand
dollars they should have a deed, i.e., I agreed to it." Upon
her testimony alone it is clear that every act of Lycurgus L.
Johnson in connection with this transaction, in every stage of
its progress, from the loan to Robinson to the payment of the
balance of the purchase money due from the appellees, was
ratified by her as guardian of appellant.
In a single instance she consented to his action as her agent
in respect of her guardianship

-reluctantly,

she says -but

nevertheless consented, and ratified it absolutely and without
qualification. No act or contract of his was disavowed by her
to the appellees, with whom as her agent he was dealing, and
from whom he was collecting payments in her behalf. Not
being notified of revocation of his authority as her agent,
they were clearly justified in acting upon the presumption of
its continuance. Story on Agency, §§ 90, 93; Hatck v. Coddington, 95 U. S. 48; InsuranCe Co. v. Dk Cain, 96 U. S. 84.
Appellant's counsel contend that the matters set up in the
bill could have been pleaded as a defence in the suit of the appellant against them in ejectment, and as there is no averment that appellees were prevented from interposing those
matters as a defence, in said action by accident of any kind,
or by the fraud of appellant, unmixed with any fault or negligence on their part, the bill should have been dismissed.
To this we cannot agree. The principle laid down in the
decisions cited in support of the objection is, that a court of
equity will not enjoin a judgment at law, unless it is shown
that the complainant was prevented from resorting to a legal
defence by fraud or unavoidable accident, without any fault

. OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or negligence on his part; but that it will do so, if the matters
set up in the bill, as a ground of relief, constitute equities unavailable as a defence in the action at law. In the action of
ejeotment the issue was squarely upon the plaintiff's legal
title. There is nothing in the case to except it from the general rule, that in the United States courts a recovery in ejectment can be had upon the strict legal title only, and that a
court of law will not uphold or enforce an equitable title to
land as a defence in such action. Bagnell v. Broderick, 13
Pet. 436, 450; Hooper v. Scheimer, 23 How. 235; Foster v.
fora, 98 U. S. 425; Langdon v. Sherwood, 124 U. S. 74, 85.
The facts alleged in appellees' bill for the purpose of showing their equitable title to the land in dispute, could not be set
up by them as a plea in the action of ejectment to defeat the.
strictly legal title of appellant.
It is said that if appellees are obliged to resort to equity to
quiet their title, Robinson, their vendor, whose failure to have
their payments properly appropriated caused their lands to be
sold under the deed of trust previously given by him, should
have been made a party to the suit, and called upon to see
that the land had been paid for; if not already, that it be paid
for now.
We think this position untenable. The answer to it is, that
the decree which the appellees asked for and which was rendered by the court below, granting them .the relief sought for,
did not undertake to settle, and did not, in effect, settle any
rights or liabilities of Robinson, or of any other person not
before the court, as a party to the record.
The dealings between Robinson and appellant's guardian,
and the rights and obligations growing out of them, are distinct from the question of title. between the parties to this
suit, and have no connection with it, except as evidence tending to throw light upon that question.
The decree of the court below is aifirmed.

