OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

HUNT v. BLACKBURN.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 16. Submitted November 1, 1888. -Decided

FOR

November 26, 1888.

At common law, when lands are granted to husband and wife as tenants in
common, they hold by moieties as other distinct and individual persons
do.
The privilege of secrecy upon communications between a client and an
attorney-at-law is a privilege of the client alone; and if he voluntarily
waives it, it cannot be insisted upon to close the mouth of the attorney.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas and the Circuit Court of Desha County
having both adjudged that the appellee and her husband held the tract
of land which is the subject of controversy in moieties, and that those
through whom the appellant claims became the owners in fee, successively, of the husband's undivided half, these decrees, standing unreversed, are binding adjudications in favor of the complainant's title, and
justified him in advancing money upon the strength of it.
The evidence fails to satisfy the court that there was any deceit practised
towards the appellee, or any misapprehension on her part of the transactions recited in the record, or any advice given to her in fraud, or in
mistake of fact or law.

THE submission of the motion to reinstate this case ufter its
dismissal at October term, 1887, for want of jurisdiction is
reported 127 U. S. 774. On the 22d October, 1888, (at the
present term,) the order of dismissal made at the last term was
set aside, and the case was restored to the docket, and was, on
the 1st of November, submitted. The case was stated by the
court as follows:
Hunt filed his bill in equity in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, on the 25th of June, 1881,
against Sallie S. Blackburn, Charles B. Blackburn, and W. P.
Smith, claiming as a purchaser for value, with the knowledge
and assent of Sallie S. Blackburn, of an undivided half of a
plantation in Desha County Arkansas, of which the defendant,
Sallie S. Blackburn, owned the other half; and deraigning
title by sundry mesne conveyances from one Shepard to W.
A. Buck, whose wife said Sallie S. then was, by Buck and
wife to Drake, Drake to Winfrey, who, as Hunt alleged, pur-

HUNT v. BLACKBURN.

465

Statement of the Case.
chased for value with Mrs. Buck's knowledge and assent, Winfrey's assignee to Weatherford, and Weatherford to himself;
setting up certain decrees hereinafter mentioned, and praying,
after averments appropriate to such relief, that his title be
quieted, and for partition.
Defendant Sallie S. Blackburn answered April 25, 1883,
asserting sole ownership of the lands under a deed from Shepard to W. A. Buck, her then husband and herself, and charging,
in respect to the decrees upon the title, that she was misled
by her attorney and confidential adviser, Weatherford, as to
her rights, and was not estopped thereby or by any conduct
of hers, in faith of which either 'Winfrey or H1unt acted in
purchasing.
The cause was heard and the bill dismissed March 10th,
1884, and from that decree this appeal was prosecuted.
The case made upon the pleadings and evidence appeared to
be as follows: Sallie S. Blackburn, then Sallie S. Buck, wife
of Walter A. Buck, on the 24th day of April, 1868, purchased
of one Shepard an undivided half of 973 acres of land in Desba
County, Arkansas, partially improved, and took a title bond
stipulating for a mode of division to be made between her
and her vendor, as soon as practicable, so that each should have
half the improved land, and for a conveyance in fee to Mrs.
Buck when'the division was made. Mrs. Buck was put in
possession of an undivided half in accordance with the agreement. In June, 1868, W. A. Buck, the husband, purchased
the other half of Shepard, who gave him a written memorandum evidencing the purchase. Buck then, in January, 1869,
sold his half to J. S. Drake, conveying the same to him on
the second day of that month by warranty deed, in which
his wife, Sallie S., joined, her acknowledgment being that for
relinquishment of dower.
The evidence tends to show that during 1868 Shepard executed and delivered a deed of the property to Mr. and Mrs.
Buck, so drawn as to recognize their separate interests, which
deed was not recorded, but in January, 1869, when Buck sold
to Drake, the latter's then attorney was not satisfied and drew
another deed of the entire property for 'Shepard to execute,
VOL. CXxVi--30

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

which he did, running directly to Walter A. Buck and Sallie
S. Buck, and bearing the same date as the deed to Drake, January 2d, 1869.
Drake and Buck and wife farmed the land in partnership
up to 1872, when, on the 7th of February of that year, Drake
sold to J. T. Winfrey, and gave him an agreement to convey.
In the meantime Buck died, and on the 11th day of March,
1872, Mrs. Buck filed her sworn bill in equity against the children and heirs at law of Buck, deceased, Shepard, Drake, Winfrey, and others, in the Circuit Court of Desha County, claiming an undivided half of the land, setting forth the ownership
by her husband of the other half, his sale to Drake and
Drake's to Winfrey, and praying that her title to "said undivided half of said property" be quieted, and for partition.
Upon this bill a decree was rendered September 12th, 1873,
which found the purchase by Mrs. Buck of Shepard, April
24th, 1868, of an undivided half of the lands, and the subsequent purchase by Buck of the other half, and Buck's sale
and conveyance of "his half of said land" to Drake, and
quieted Mrs. Buck's title to an undivided half.
Shepard derived title to the lands through a purchase under
a deed of trust given by Henry J. Johnson to on6 Tate, and
by mistake one parcel was omitted from the trust deed, and
the mistake had been inadvertently carried thrbugh all the
successive conveyances down to the Bucks. In 1872 Randolph, a judgment creditor of Johnson, had caused an execution to be levied on the omitted parcel, and Mrs. Buck and
Drake filed a bill in the Desha Circuit Court against Randolph, Winfrey, and others, to enjoin sale upon the execution,
correct the mistake, quiet the title and compel Winfrey to
complete his purchase. Pending the suit, Mrs. Buck changed
her name by intermarriage with Blackburn, who was made a
party, and subsequently died.
This case went to decree, dismissing the bill, from which an
appeal was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of Arkansas, the
decision of which tribunal is reported under the title, Blacenbuw
v. .Randolph,in 33 Arkansas, 119. The opinion, after setting
forth Shepard's title, states that he sold "an undivided half

HUNT v. BLACKBURN.
Statement of the Case.

of the lands to complainant S. S. Buck, and still later the
other undivided half to her husband, W. A. Buck, since deceased, but who in his lifetime sold his interest to complainant
Drake, who afterwards sold to Winfrey." The decree of the
Circuit Court was reversed, and a decree entered in the Supreme Court, at the November Term, 1878, "vesting in. complainant Sallie S. Blackburn and defendant J. T. Winfrey, all
the legal and equitable title in and to said plantation that was
in Henry J. Johnson at the time of the execution of the deed
of trust to said Tate." It appears, also, from the report of this
case, that 'Johnson had given a mortgage on the land to one
Graddy, who filed a, bill to foreclose it, setting up the sale to
Shepard and his sale to W. A. and Sallie S. Buck, who were
made parties, and that a decree was rendered in said cause,
October 28th, 1869, confirming the title to said lands in Buck
and wife under said purchases.
In the conveyance by Buck and wife to Drake, January 2,
1869., it was provided that if any recovery was had in the suit of
Graddy against Johnson, and "it results as an incumbrance
upon this property, the first party are only liable to the extent of their one-half interest in said lands, and the second
party takes subject to this liability."
During 1878 Winfrey filed his voluntary petition in bankruptcy in the United States District Court for Middle Tennessee, scheduling half of the lands among his assets, and the
register in bankruptcy conveyed, November 1st, 1878, to
Harry Harrison, Winfrey's assignee. The property was sold
and conveyed by the assignee to Weatherford, January 30th,
1880, and Weatherford conveyed to Clarence P. Hunt, July
lth, 1880.
Weatherford testifies that Mrs. Buck informed him that she
had been told she could "beat Mr. Drake out of any interest
in the place," but had replied "that she did not wish to beat
him out of it, as her husband had sold to him in good faith;
all she wanted was to have him settle in accordance with the
agreement made in her husband's lifetime; ' and Weatherford
commended her reply, and told her he did not think "she
could beat Drake if she were to try." Exactly when this con-

1 468

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

versation took place is not clearly made out, but the evidence
tends to show that it was in 1871 or 1872, and before March
llth, 1872, the date of the commencement of the suit of Mrs.
Buck against Buck's heirs. Weatherford had drawn the original conveyance from Shepard, recognizing, as he believes, the
separate interests; and Weatherford acted as solicitor for
Drake and Mrs. Buck, afterwards Blackburn, in the litigation
which resulted in the decree by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, and for Mrs. Buck in that against Buck's heirs, which went
to decree in the Desha County Circuit Court. Originally Mrs.
Buck's attorney, he had as time went on become Drake's
attorney, and it was as such that he purchased the property
at the assignee's sale, and then sold and conveyed to Hunt at
Drake's request, receiving himself only the amount of his
charges, but Drake receiving acquittance of several thousand
dollars which Hunt had advanced to him upon the strength of
Drake's interest in the property, in respect to which Weatherford had advised Hunt that it was ample to insure him against
loss.
Weatherford was not, at this time, acting as Mrs. Black-'
burn's attorney. She had resorted to another professional
adviser in relation to her interest in the land in 1876, who died
in 1878, when she consulted his surviving partner. So far as
appears, Weatherford had no knowledge or information which
would have led him to suppose, up to June, 1880, when he
conveyed to Hunt, that Mrs. Blackburn was determined to
claim the whole land as her own.
In 1875 Mrs. Blackburn wrote Weatherford: "It is Mr.
Drake's half of the place that has been sold for taxes, and not
mine. I think Mr. Winfrey has given up all idea of having
anything to do with the place, as they have all left here, and
I am in possession and never intend to give it up until Drake
and Winfrey settle, and I know to a certainty who it belongs
to, so I can have a permanent division. I am having rails
made, so as to fence my half when I know where it is."
This letter and some others in the record were apparently
written to Weatherford as a friend rather than as an attorney;
but a motion was made on behalf of Mrs. Blackburn to sup-

HUNT v. BLACKBURN.
Opinion of the Court.

press Weatherford's depositions, of which there were two, and
the letters, upon the ground that the former related to matters
communicated to Weatherford in confidence as her attorney,
and that the letters were equally confidential.
X . T B. Veiskell for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.
MN[R. CmEF

JUsTIcE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Undoubtedly, at common law, husband and wife did not
take, under a conveyance of land to them jointly, as tenants
in common or as joint tenants, but each became seized of the
entirety, per tout, et non per my; the consequence of which
was that neither could dispose of any part without the assent
of the other, but the whole remained to the survivor under the
original grant. 2 Bl. Com. 182; 2 Kent's Com. 113; 1 Washburn, iReal Prop. (4th ed.) 672. Nor had this rule been
changed at the time of these transactions by the constitution
or statutes of Arkansas. Robinson v. Eagle, 29 Arkansas, 202.
But it was also true at common law, that, as "in point of fact,
and agreeable to natural reason, free from artificial deductions,
the husband and wife are distinct and individual persons; and,
accordingly, when lands are granted to them as tenants in
common, thereby treating them without any respect to their
social union, they will hold by moieties, as other distinct and
individual persons would do." 1 Preston on Estates, p. 132;
1 Inst. 187 b; 1 Washburn, IReal Prop. (4th ed.) p. 674;
.cDermott v. French, 15 N. J. Eq. (2 McCarter) 78, 80.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas and the Circuit Court of
Desha County must have proceeded upon the conclusion that
Buck and his wife held by moieties, in decreeing that, through
their conveyance, Drake and Winfrey became the owners in
fee, successively, of Buck's undivided half of the lands in question; and the decrees of these two courts to that effect, standing unreversed, would seem to be binding adjudications in
favor of complainant's title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Circuit Court case Mrs. Buck sought and obtained a
decree quieting her title to an undivided half as between her
and Buck's heirs and Drake, Buck's grantee, and holding a tax
title to have been acquired for the benefit of Drake and herself, and she is to be held to have embraced her whole cause
of *action in one suit. In the Supreme Court case she had
joined with Drake, in seeking relief as co-owners, against an
execution sale of a parcel of the land, the rectification of a
mistake in the deeds, and the vesting of title in herself and
Drake, and the compelling Winfrey to accept title to the
Drake half, and that relief was in substance accorded by the
decree.
Under such circumstances it cannot be denied that Hunt
was justified. in advancing his money upon the strength of the
Drake-Winfrey title.
Defendant Blackburn insists, however, in her answer, that
the part she took in the litigation of these two cases was the
result of misplaced confidence in her counsel, by whom she
alleges she was deceived, misadvised and misled; that she
was ignorant of her rights; and that she ought not to be held
estopped in the premises, while at the same time, it is objected
on her behalf, that her attorney, on the ground of privileged
communications, should not be permitted to defend himself by
testifying to the facts and circumstances under which he
advised her and the advice which he actually gave.
The rule which places the seal of secrecy upon communications between client and attorney is founded upon the necessity, in the interest and administration of justice, of the aid
of persons having knowledge of the law and skilled in its
practice, which assistance can only be safely and readily availed
of when free from the consequences or the apprehension of
disclosure. But the privilege is that of the client alone, and
no rule prohibits the latter from divulging his own secrets;
and if the client has voluntarily waived the privilege, it cannot be insisted on"to close the mouth of the attorney. When
lls. Blackburn entered upon a line of defence which involved
what transpired between herself and Mr. Weatherford, and
respecting which she testified, she waived her right to object

UNITED STATES v. McDONALD.
Syllabus.

to his giving his own account of the matter. As, for instance,
when she says that the original deed from Shepard was drawn
by Weatherford, that she has not got it, and that she thinks
she gave it to him, it is clear that her letter of July 6, 1875,
calling for that deed, and Weatherford's reply of July 14th,
enclosing it, are admissible in evidence.
But, apart from Weatherford's evidence, the testimony of
Ms. Blackburn and Drake, together with the documents in
the case, fail to satisfy us that there was any deceit or misapprehension in the premises, or any advice given Mrs. Blackburn
in fraud or in mistake of fact or law. Buck and his wife purchased the separate halves at different times, and with the
intent of holding in moieties, and conveyed Buck's half to
Drake, who paid therefor in good faith and without actual
notice. The second deed of Shepard was so drawn as to run
directly to Buck and wife, and upon the language in which it
was couched this claim is set up. And yet that second deed
was given, on request of Drake's attorney, at the very time
when Buck and his wife were conveying to Drake for valuable
consideration. The injustice of allowing Mrs. Blackburn to
insist, years afterwards, that by that deed she acquired an
estate by entirety is too apparent to need comment; nor could
such deed divest the title which had once vested in her hutsband
and herself by the former conveyance from the same grantor,
nor alter its nature.
Tie decree will be reversed and the cause remanded for
fuirther proceedingsin confo'rimity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. MoDOKALD.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAflI5.
No. 1161. Submitted November 5, 1888. -Decded

November 26, 1888.

The claim of a navy officer for his expenses when travelling under orders
rests, not upon contract with the government, but upon acts of Congress;
and when part of such a journey is performed when one statute is in

