OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 40. Argued October 24, 25, 26, 1888. -Decided

December 10, 1883.

The act of June 13, 1812, 2 Stat. 748, c. 99, "making further provisions for
settling the claims to land in the Territory of Missouri," was a grant
in pr senti of all the title of the United States to all lands in the Grand
Prairie Common Field of St. Louis which had been inhabited, cultivated,
or possessed, prior to the treaty with France of April 30, 1803, leaving
in them no title to such lands which could pass to the State of Missouri
by the act of March 6, 1820, c. 22, 3 Stat. 545, authorizing the people of
Missouri Territory to form a constitution and state government, etc.
In ejectment in Missouri, to recover a part of the Grand Prairie Common
Field of St. Louis, the plaintiff claiming under the act of Congress of
March 6, 1820, c. 22, § 6, subdivision 1, and the defendant claiming under
a possession, occupation and cultivation under French law prior to the
cession of Louisiana to the United States, it being proved that the land
in controversy was either part of that Common Field or had been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to the cession, the defendant is not
required to prove with certainty and precision the time when, and the
person by whom, the cultivation or occupation was made, but it is sufficient if there is satisfactory proof that according to the terms of the
statute, the tract in dispute and all the land within the Grand Prairie
Common Field had been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to the
year 1803.

TuE court stated the case as follows:

The writ of error in this case brings before us for review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri,
rendered on the 11th day of May, 1885, in a suit commenced
in the St. Louis Land Court of St. Louis County, in that
State, on the 15th day of September, 1853.
This suit is in the nature of an action of ejectment to recover
possession of about 200 acres of land. It was tried thren or
four times in the court of original jurisdiction, the last trial
resulting in a verdict for fifty-three acres of said land in
favor of plaintiff; has been once or twice before the Court of
Appeals, a court of intermediate review, and has been ihree
times heard afid decided in the Supreme Court of the State of

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Statement of the Case.

Missouri.

All of the decisions of the latter court have been in

favor of the defendants, and the last one is now before us.
It is one of a class of cases very numerous, many of which have
reached this court, growing out of claims for land which had
their inception prior to the treaty of April 30, 1803, 8 Stat.
200, by which the United States obtained the region of country
called "Louisiana" from France. Article III of that treaty
reads as follows:
"The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States, and admitted as
soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal
Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages,
and immunities of citizens of the United States; and in the
meantime they shall be maintained and protected in the free
enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion which
they profess." 8 Stat. 202.
This provision for the protection of the rights of private
property is probably no more than what follows, by the principles of the law of nations, upon the transfer of the allegiance
of the inhabitants of a given territory from one government
to another. The city of N~ew Orleans was the principal
centre of population of this large extent of country at the
time the treaty was made with France, but there were also
many villages and towns, generally located along the Mississipii River and upon some of the other navigable streams, and
the town of St. Louis seems to have become the largest of
these in the northern part of it at the beginning of the century. This territory, known as Louisiana,. was for many years
the subject of negotiations and contests between the governments of France and Spain. It had been held by the latter
power and under its control for some thirty-eight years, when,
by the treaty of San Ildefonso, October 1, 1800, it was receded by Spain to France. No actual transfer of possession
had. been made under this treaty at. the time that that of 1803

was ratified, by which we acquired the country from the
French government, but formal proceedings were taken immediately thereafter, by which, at New Orleans, possession was
delivered to the French official, M. Laussat, on the 30th day of
VOL. cxxvnm-36

OCTOBER TE.RMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

November, 1803, and on the 20th day of December following
this possession was formally passed over to Gen. Wilkinson,
representing the United States. Corresponding changes of
flags were made at the time at New Orleans, and similar
transfers were effected at St. Louis on the 9th and 10th of
March, 1804.
The acquisition of titles by individuals to'lands from the
government, both under the French and Spanish regimes, was
of the simplest character. An application to the Governor,
who usually resided at New Orleans, or to a LieutenantGovernor, for leave to cultivate some of the land under his
authority, was rarely refused; and, when such an application
was rejected, it was generally upon the ground that some
previous applicant had a better right. Some of these grants
were surveyed and marked out, and the license and survey
were considered, when accompanied by possession, to complete
the title. Many individuals, however, were in possession of
lands under titles which were not perfect, and, when the
country came into the control of the United States, it became
the purpose and obvious duty of the government to secure to
these people all the rights, however imperfect or inchoate,
which had been acquired by them under the dominion of
either France or Spain. Most of the inhabitants of this
territory were French.
The government of the United States performed this duty
in the most liberal manner. It commenced by passing an act
of Congress in 1805, 2 Stat. 324, c. 26, and a supplement
thereto in 1806, 2 Stat. 391, c. 39, which was amended in
1807, 2 Stat. 440, c. 36, by which three commissioners were
appointed for the purpose of establishing these land claims
and separating them from the public domain.
This commission, called the old board to distinguish it from another
which succeeded it, made a report of its proceedings to
Congress in the year 1811. It rejected a very large proportion
of the claims submitted to it, and the hard rules which were
applied to the cases brought before it for adjudication occasioned much discontent. A history of the effort to induce
Congress to some more liberal provision in regard to them

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Statement of the Case.

shows that that body was very fully informed as to the
proceedings taken by the commission, and it was upon the
representation of at least one of the commissioners, as well as
statements of some other persons who were interested in and
cognizant of the state of affairs, and upon petitions presented
to it, which may be found among the American State Papers,
that Congress was induced to pass a much more liberal statute
in regard to these claims. It was approved June 13, 1812, 2
Stat. 748, c. 99, and provided for the appointment of another
board of commissioners, with authority to re-examine the
claims which had been rejected, as well as to investigate
others not previously presented, and directed a report to be
made to Congress. The first and second sections of this
statute, which is supposed to be controlling in regard to the
case now before us, reads as follows:
"An act making further provision for settling the claims to
land in the Territory of Xlissouri.
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted 4y the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That the rights, titles and claims to town or village lots, outlots, common field lots, and commons, in, adjoining, and
belonging to the several towns or villages of Portage des
Sioux, St. Charles, St. Louis, St. Ferdinand, Villago a Robert,
Carondelet, St. Genevieve, New Madrid, New Bourbon, Little
Prairie, and Arkansas, in the Territory of Missouri, which
lots have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior to the
twentieth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and
three, shall be and the same are hereby confirmed to the
inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid,
according to their sereral right or rights in common thereto:
Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed
to affect the rights of any persons claiming the same lands,
or any part thereof, whose claims have been confirmed by the
board of commissioners for adjusting and settling claims to
land in the said territory. And it shall be ,the duty of the
principal deputy surveyor for the said territory, as soon as
may be, to survey, or cause to be surveyed and marked,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

(where the same has not already been done, according to
law,) the out-boundary lines of the said several towns or
villages, so as to include the out-lots, common field lots, and
commons, thereto respectively belonging. And he shall make
out plats of the surveys, which he shall transmit to the
surveyor-general, who shall forward copies of said plats to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and to the
recorder of land titles; the expense of surveying the said
out-boundary lines shall be paid by the United States out of
any moneys appropriated for surveying the public lands:
Provided, That the whole expense shall not exceed three
dollars for every mile that shall be actually surveyed and
marked.
" SEc. 2. And be itfrther enacted, That all town or village
lots, out-lots, or common field lots, included in such surveys,
which are not rightfully owned or claimed by any private
individuals, or held as commons belonging to such towns or
villages, or that the President of the United States may not
think proper to reserve for military purposes, shall be, and
the same are hereby reserved for the support of schools in
the respective towns or villages aforesaid: .Provided,That the
whole quantity of land contained in the lots reserved for the
support of schools in any one town or village, shall not exceed
one-twentieth part of the whole lands included in the general
survey of such town or village."
There are numerous acts of Congress, confirming titles
reported upon favorably by this conmission, to be found in
the years subsequent to its appointment, as well as many
statutes displaying the utmost liberality in extending the time
within which parties might apply to this commission, or to an
officer who as recorder succeeded to ito so that the patience
and generosity with which Congress endeavored to have these
claims originating in those early days established, where there
was any basis of right whatever, is conspicuous. Congress
also dealt with the State of Missouri, in regard to contributions for the erection of public buildings and for the promotion of education. in the same liberal manner as it did in
regard to other regions which were admitted as new States,

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Statement of the Case.

that had previously been governed for a while as Territories
under its enactments.
By the act of March 3, 1811, Congress extended the system
of the surveys of the public lands over this region, and in the
tenth section, providing for sales of such public lands as should
have been surveyed, declared that "All such lands shall, with
the exception of the section 'number sixteen,' which shall be
reserved in each township for the support of schools within the
same, with the exception also of a tract reserved for the support of a seminary of learning, as provided for by the seventh
section of this act, and with the exception also of the salt
springs and lead mines, and lands contiguous thereto, which
by the direction of the President of the United States may be
reserved for the future disposal of the said States, shall be
offered for sale to the highest bidder," etc. 2 Stat. 665, c.
46, § 10.
When the time came for the admission of Missouri into the
Union, among the propositions which Congress submitted to
the people of the Territory upon which it might be admitted
as a State, the first was "that section numbered sixteen in
every township, and when such section has been sold, or otherwise disposed. of, other lands equivalent: thereto, and as contiguous as may be, shall be granted to the State for the use of
the inhabitants of such township, for the use of schools." Act
of March 6, 1820, c. 22, § 6, subdivision 1. 3 Stat. 54:7.
The acceptance by the State of this proposition, as one of
the conditions under which it entered the Union, forms the
basis of the title claimed by the plaintiff in this suit. By the
general system of surveys of public lands which had been
established prior to the act of 1811, all the public lands of the
United States, and all those within the general boundary, as
fast as they were surveyed at all, were divided first into townships of six miles square, each of which was then subdivided
into sections of 640 acres. These townships and sections were
controlled by meridians of latitude and longitude, and not by
natural objects; and although the lines, if actually protracted
upon the ground, might extend over places of considerable
population, and include lands owned by private citizens, yet

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

as it was necessary to the completion of the general systein of
Congressional surveys, they were made to cover the whole
country and to include the entire territory. As regards the
sixteenth section, of course when these surveys were protracted,
either by a simple calculation or by actual survey over.lands
which were claimed or owned by private persons, or which
had been reserved for public purposes, they had no effect to
defeat or establish such titles, but all that came within the
lines of such sixteenth section, which was not otherwise appropriated, became the property of the State for school purposes.
The conflict in this case grows out of the assertion by the
plaintiff that the land in controversy passed to the State by
virtue of the act of 1820, as part of a sixteenth section, while
the defendants claim that the title and right to it passed out
of the government of the United States by the act of 1812,
eight years prior to admission of the State into the Union, and
the act granting each sixteenth section to the State. It is not
denied that the lines of the sixteenth section of township fortyfive north, range seven east of the principal meridian, include
the land in dispute, nor, if there was no reason to the contrary, that it passed to the State of Missouri under the provisions of the act Admitting, it into the Union. Neither is
there any dispute that the plaintiff in error in this case, who
was also plaintiff below, is invested as commissioner for the
purposes of this suit with the right of the State of Missouri to
the possession.
The defendants say, on the other hand, that they and their
predecessors from whom they derive title became the owners
of this land by operation of the act of 1812, and that the
United States, having by that act parted with its title, had
nothing to give to the State of Missouri by the act of 1820,
and did not intend to give to that State that which had been
granted and confirmed already to private parties.
These two propositions present sharply the issue to be tried
in the pregent case.
Mr. Elmer B. Adams and -Mr. To n TV-Dryden
.
(with
whom was Mr. -ff.1. Cray on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

I. The reservation, created by the second section of the act
of June 13th, 1812, for the schools of the village of St. Louis,
presents no obstacle to plaintiff's recovery under the grant to
the State of Missouri of March 6th, 1820, for the schools of
the township. (1) Because such reservation did not take away
from the United States, by act of its Congress, the power of
disposition of the lands so reserved. c. 99, §§ 1, 2, act of
June 13, 1812, 2 Stat. 749, 750; c. 184, § 2, act of May 26,
1824, 4 Stat. 65, 66; c. 22, § 6, act of March 6, 1820, 3 Stat.
547; Slidell v. Crandjean,111 U. S. 412, 439; Ham v. Hissouri, 18 How. 126; Fissell v. St. Louis Public Schools, 18
How. 19, 25; Trisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; The Yosemite
Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77; Hammond v. St. Louis Public
Schools, 8 Missouri, 65 ; Cabanni v. Walker, 31 Missouri, 275 ;
State v. Ham, 19 Missouri, 592; c. 12, act of January 27,
1831, 4 Stat. 435. (2) Because the land in controversy is not
included within the out-boundary line required to be surveyed
by the 1st section of the act of 1812 (and afterwards actually
surveyed), and is therefore not within the area of the supposed
reservation, and is not covered or affected by it; the grant
being made subject to a contingency which never happened,
became absolute. Act of June 13, 1812, §§ 1, 2, 2 Stat. 749;
.Eissell v. St. Louis Public Schools, 18 How. 19; Cousin v.
.Blanc, 19 How. 202; IFest v. Cochran, 17 How. 403; Stanford v. Taylor, 18 How. 409 ; Slidell v. Grandjean, 111 U. S.
412; Glasgow v. Hcortiz, I Black, 595; -berle v. St. Louis
Public Schools, 11 Missouri, 247, 264; Boyce v. Papoin, 11
Missouri, 16; Trotter v. Public Schools, 9 Missouri, 69; .Kissell
v. St. Louis Public Schools, 16 Missouri, 553; Papin v. Ryan,
32 Missouri, 21 ; Bryan, v. Forsyth, 19 How. 334; Dredge v.
Forsyth, 2 Black, 563; Water & Xlining Co. v. Bugbey, 96
U. S. 165. (3) No intent or purpose can be imputed to Congress not to include within the grant of 1820, to the State of
Missouri, the particular sixteenth section sued for in this
action, on the ground that it fell within the exterior limits of
the Grand Prairie Common Field; so supposed to have been
reserved for the schools of the village: because (a) presumptions should be indulged in favor of the grant rather than

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

against it; (b) the grant to the State was for a valuable consideration; (6) the grant to the State is not inconsistent with
the reservation for the schools of the village; (d) the prior
reservation of every 16th section for the schools of the township made by the 10th section of the act of March 3, 1811,
together with concurrent legislation, manifest a clear intent to
appropriate by the act of 1820 this 16th section to the use of
the township schools, and necessarily to exclude it from the
operative effect of the reservation for the schools of the village made by the act of 1812; (e) Congress did not intend in
any event to subject the grant to the State, to any greater
contingency than the reservation as actually made -and as
actually made, it did not affect this 16th section ; (f) the same
considerations which go to show an intent to exclude this 16th
section from the operation of the grant to the State, because
of the reservation of 1812, more strongly tend to show an
intent to exclude this 16th section from the operation of the
act of 1812, by reason of the prior reservation of 1811. Act
of March 6, 1820, § 6, 3 Stat. 547; Payne v. St. Louis County,
8 M issouri, 476; act of March 3, 1811, § 10, 2 Stat. 665; ordinance of May 20, 1785, 1 Land Laws (1838), 11; ordinance of
July 23, 1787, 1 Land Laws (1838), 24; ordinance of June 20,
1788, 1 Land Laws (1838), 29; act of March 26, 1804, 2 Stat.
279; act of X,arch 3, 1803, 2 Stat. 234; act of April 21, 1806,
§ 11, 2 Stat. 394; act of March 3, 1819, 3 Stat. 521 ; act of
May 6, 1822, 3 Stat. 680 ; act of April 30, 1802, § 7, 2 Stat.
175; act of April 19, 1816, § 6, 3 Stat. 290; act of April 18,
1818, § 6, 3 Stat. 430; acts of June 23, 1836, 5 Stat. 58 and
59; Cooper v. Robe'ts, 18 How. 173; Beecher v. Tetherby, 95
U. S. 517; Wilcox v. .XoConnel,13 Pet. 498; -eavenworth
&c. Railroadv. United States, 92 U. S..733.
II. The facts disclosed by the record, that the entire Grand
Prairie Common Field was, in Spanish times, prior to December 20, 1803, cultivated by undesignated and unknown inhabitants of the village of St. Louis, in lots adjoining each
other, of various widths (ranging-from 1 to 3 arpents), and
running east and west with coterminous limits, entirely across
the field, are not sufficient in law to establish, in favor of

GLASGOW v. BAKER.

569

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the defendants and against the plaintiff in this case, a confirmation of the entire field, by the 1st section of the act of June
13, 1812, to such inhabitants, whoever they might be, either
en masse or according to their several cultivations; and are
not sufficient to establish (as against the plaintiff claiming
title under the subsequent grant of March 6, 1820) that all
such field had been "disposed of," within the meaning of the
act of 1820, and thus to defeat plaintiff's recovery. (a) Because an analysis of the act of June 13, 1812, and the supplementary act of May 26, 1824, disclose that the confirmations
were intended to be to the several claimants as they existed
in 1812, according to their several rights; and are entirely
inconsistent with the idea of confirmations without existing and
known claimants in 1812. 2 Stat. 749, 4 Stat. 65. (b) Because
the antecedent Spanish laws, regulations, habits and customs,
in the light of which Congress was acting, rendering forfeitures of rights and abandonment of claims possible, show
that the act of June 13, 1812, was not intended to work confirmations to cultivators, without regard to the time of their cultivation or without regard to whether they had claims to their
lots at the date of the passage of the act. 1 Partidas, Law
50, p. 365 ; 2 White's Recopilacion, p. 229, §§ 1 and 2; p. 233,
§§ 14 and 16; p. 235, art. 4; Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 How.
460; Ott v. Soulard, 9 M issouri, 581, 605; Landers v. Perkins, 12 Missouri, 238, 256; Eajoye v. Primm, 3 Missouri, 529;
Gurno v. Janis, 6 Missouri, 330; Page v. Scheibel, 11 Missouri,
167; Tayon v. Hardmfnan, 23 Missouri, 539; ine v. Public
Schools, 23 Missouri, 570; 30 Missouri, 166; 39 Missouri, 59;
Strother v. Iucas, 12 Pet. 410; United States v. Arredondo,
6 Pet. 691, 747. (c) The authorities assert the necessity of an
existing claim and claimant in 1812; that it is the claim and
not the cultivation that is confirmed; that proof of cultivation
is not enough. Page v. Scheibel, 11 Missouri, 183; Yasques
v. Ewing, 42 Missouri, 256; &t. Louis v. Tooney, 21 Missouri,
255; Byron v. Saipy, 18 Missouri, 455; Janis v. Gurno, 4
Missouri, 458; Soulard v. Clark, 19 Missouri, 570; Lajoye v.
Primrm, 3 Missouri, 534; Hla/mnmond v. Coleman, Sup. Ct. of
Missouri, unreported; Glasgow v. Baker, 14 Missouri, App. 201,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207. (d) The fact of general cultivation at some indefinite time,
during the Spanish dominion, by unknown persons, does not
involve any presumption (even if a claim co-existed with the
cultivation) that it continued from such indefinite and unfixed
period of time down to the passage of the act of 1812. Proof
of cultivation is made sufficient evidence of rightor title in the
claimant, if a claimant exists, but it does not involve the existence of the claim or claimant in 1812 or at any other time, and
the authorities have gone only to this extent. Guitardv. Stoddard, 16 How. 494, 510; JFasseur v. Benton, 1 Missouri, 296;
Lajoye v. Primm, 3 Missouri, 535; .Aontgomery v. Landusky,
9 Missouri, 714; Soulard v. Clark, 19 Missouri, 570; Carondelet v. St. Louis, 25 Missouri, 460; HZammond v. Coleman,
Supreme Court of Missouri, unreported; Glasgow v. Baker, 14
Missouri, App. 207.
II. The fact of such general cultivation, by unknown persons, at unfixed and indefinite times, during the Spanish dominion, as hereinbefore stated, is not sufficient to constitute
an outstanding title and thus to defeat plaintiff's recovery.
Act of March 6, 1820, supra; iam v. ,issouri, 18 How. 126.
(a) Because such title to avail an intruder must be a present
subsisting and operative title and one upon which the owner
could maintain ejectment and its existence must be established
beyond controversy. Greenleafv. Birth, 6 Pet. 302; Jackson v.
Hudson, 3 Johns. 375, 386; S. 6'. 3 Am. Dec. 500; -Foster v.
Joice, 3 Wash. C. C. 498, 501; Bennett v. -Horr,47 Michigan,
221; .McDonald v. Schneider, 27 Missouri, 405. .arsh v.
Brooks, 8 How. 223, can be distinguished from this case.
Such title in such supposed unknown persons at the remote
period of 1803, or even 1812, not having been asserted, and
the supposed unknown owners being still unknown and unidentified in 1882, when the trial of this cause took place,
must be presumed to have become extinguished.
The consequences of the doctrine contended for by defendants, that such proof of general cultivation alone establish an
outstanding title sufficient to defeat plaintiff, condemn the
doctrine.
Counsel discussed other points in their brief and in the argu-

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, but in view of the opinion of the court it is not necessary to present them.
Mi.. C. Gibswoi, Mr. Robert E. Collins, and .r.
Gantt for defendants in error.

Thomas T.

Mrb. John Plournoy also filed a brief for same
MR.

JUSTOE MMLER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It will be seen at once that there is really no contest about
the claim of the plaintiff, unless the defendants have established some break in the continuity of the title which the
United States may have received from France by the treaty
of 1803, or unless the exceptions in that treaty of private
property take the land in controversy out of that class where
the right of ownership was vested in the United States by the
treaty. We must turn then to the defence in this case to
ascertain whether the decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri is sound which held that defence to be a good one.
There is no question here as to the jurisdiction of this court,
although the case comes from the Supreme Court of a State,
for every matter in dispute arises either under the treaty of
1803, the acts of Congress in regard to these lands, or the
authority of some officer of the government of the United
States exercised over them.
The act of June 13, 1812, was passed, as we have stated,
for the purpose of prescribing more liberal principles by which
the claims of private persons to portions of what otherwise
would have been public land should be ascertained and established, and its provisions must be construed in that spirit.
The inhabitants of French villages had a system of dividing
and distributing the ownership of lands in and about them not
common to people of English origin. Collecting themselves
together for residence in that part of the settlement which
may be called the village proper, they selected small parcels
of land for cultivation, which were generally long strips with

OCTOBER TERML 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

narrow fronts. These measured by the French arpent were
usually two or three arpents wide by forty in length, running
backward in the shape of a parallelogram. The dividing
lines between these adjoining tracts, which Were held by different owners, were sometimes well marked, but in other cases
not so distinctly indicated. The ground in which these small
pieces of land were thus held by their various individual
owners was known as the "town or village lots, out-lots, common field lots and commons," belonging to the particular village. A large number0 of the villages in the northern part of
Louisiana, which afterwards came to be called the Territory
of Missouri, had these outlying appendages to the village
proper, which were always treated as a part of it. The act of
1812 very carefully gives the names of the villages so situated,
reciting the names of "Portage des Sioux, St. Charles, St.
Louis, St. Ferdinand, Villago a Robert, Carondelet, St. Genevieve, iNew Madrid, New Bourbon, Little Prairie, and Arkansas, in the Territory of Missouri," as those to which the act
applied. It also declares that "the rights, titles and claims"
intended to be covered by that statute are those to the "town
or village lots, out-lots, common field lots, and commons in,
adjoining, and belonging to the several towns or villages"
thus designated.
It will thus be seen with what care the statute enumerated
the villages to which it was intended to apply and the kind
of claims to tracts of land therein proposed to be covered by
it.
The act then proceeds to confine its operation to those lots
which "have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to
the twentieth day of December, 1803," that being the date on
which, as already stated, the government and possession of
the territory in which these settlements are located were actually transferred from France to the United States. It may
also be noted that the language of the statute does not refer
to lots then inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, that is, on
December 20, 1803, but to such as had been so inhabited,
cultivated, or possessed prior to that date. There is nothing
in the act which implies that the title conferred by it was

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

dependent on actual possession at the very date when the
above transfer was made, but, on the contrary, if there had
been habitancy, cultivation or possession prior to that time,
the act operated upon the property.
Itwill also be observed that these qualifications of what is
to be confirmed require no description of the person of the
owner, nor any evidence that any particular individual shall
be proved to have inhabited, cultivated, or possessed any lot
prior to December 20, 1803, nor any derivation of title from
such a party, but simply that the land shall have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior thereto. The act then
proceeds to declare that "the same," evidently referring back
to the "rights, titles, and claims," mentioned at the beginning
of the section, to such lots as these, which "have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior to the 20th day of December, 1803, shall be, and the same are, hereby confirmed to the
inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid,
according to their several right or rights in common thereto."
The same section also made it the duty of the principal
deputy surveyor to run and mark "the out-boundary lines
of the said several towns or villages so as to include the
out-lots, common field lots and commons thereto respectively
belonging."
Testimony was offered in the trial court, which is found in
the transcript of the record in this case, tending to show that
the land now in controversy had been confirmed to four different individuals, Laroche, Bouis, Baccanne and Bizet, respectively, by the Board of Commissioners established by the act
of 1812, and that surveys of those confirmations, which, for
reasons not necessary to explain, had been delayed a great
many years, had finally been made by one Cozens. The court
was asked to hold that those surveys constituted ".KPrimafacie
evidence of the correct location of such confirmations." The
lower court declined to do this, but the Supreme Court of the
State in reversing its judgment declared that they were such
primacfacie evidence.
Although the duty of making a survey of the village of St.
Louis, which should include all these outlying commons, out-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

lots and common field lots, was neglected by the officers of
the government charged with its performance by the first section of the act of 1812, which we have been considering, such
surveys have been made, and plats are presented in this record
showing the locality of the village of St. Louis in 1803, together with the extent and location of each of the above
classes of commons and out-lots. Among these is a large
piece of land, designated as the "Grand Prairie Common Field
of Saint Louis," within which all the land in dispute is embraced. There is also evidence enough to show that all the
land within this tract had been occupied and cultivated, within
the meaning of the act of 1812, prior to December 20, 1803,
and this fact is conceded in the argument of counsel for plaintiff in error, even if it were not clearly established. It may
be taken as an unquestioned fact, as. it is in the argument and
in the Supreme Court of Missouri, that all the lands in the
Grand Prairie Common Field had been occupied, cultivated
and possessed by the inhabitants of the village of St. Louis
prior to December 20, 1803.
Under these circumstances the trial court was asked to
declare the law to be as follows:
"If the court, sitting as a jury, believes from the evidence
that all of the land, from the lot of Motard on the south, to
the St. Charles road on the north, was inhabited, cultivated,
or possessed as common field lots of the Grand Prairie Common Fields of St. Louis, by several different inhabitants of
the town of St. Louis, prior to the 20th day of December,
1803, each of said inhabitants cultivating or possessing one or
more such lots for himself, that such lots were in regular succession adjoining each other on the sides, and all having uniform and straight front, east and west lines, then the plaintiff
cannot recover, if the court, sitting as a jury, further believes
from the evidence that the land sued for lies within, or constitutes a part of, the land cultivated or possessed as aforesaid."
This it declined to do, but the Supreme Court of the State
held that this prayer of the defendants in error stated the law
correctly and reversed the judgment of the court below and
directed a final judgment to be entered for them. This was

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

done on the ground that the fact that all of the lands in the
Grand Prairie Common Field of St. Louis had been inhabited, cultivated and possessed prior to the treaty of 1803,
showed that there could be no other title than that derived
from the persons so inhabiting, cultivating or possessing the
land, and that the true construction of the act of 1812 is that
it was a present grant, at the moment of its passage, of all
the title of the United States to such land as had been so
inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to 1803. It was held
that the title thus passed out of the United States, and enured
to the benefit of those who might thereafter by contests
among themselves prove their right to profit by such cultivation or possession; that however it might be among them and
parties claiming, under them, the United States had no further
interest in the land, for it had parted with its entire title to
all the lots described in the act; so when it was asserted that
in 1820, eight years thereafter, the act granting the sixteenth
section for school purposes conveyed such land, the claim
could not be admitted, because there was then no title remaining in the United States which it could grant to the State of
Missouri.
That the act of 1812 was a grant in presenti, and operated
to convey or confirm such titles and claims as came within its
description, has been repeatedly decided in the Supreme Court
of the State of Missouri and by this court. The case of Glas-.
gow v. ffortiz, 1 Black, 595, contains a very full examination
of this point and of the previous decisions of the court upon
the same subject, and, citing the case of Guitard v. Stoddard,
16 How. 494-, adopts the following language of the court:
"'That the act of 1812 is a present operative grant of all the
interest of the United States in the property described in the
act; and that the right of the gTantee was not dependent on
thefacturn of a survey under the Spanish government.' That
the act 'makes no requisition for a concession, survey, or
permission to settle, cultivate, or possess, or for any location
by a public authority, as the basis of the right, title, or claim
upon which its confirmatory provisions operate.' No board
was appointed to receive evidence, or authenticate titles, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

adjust contradictory pretensions.

All these questions were

left to be decided by the judicial tribunals."

p. 601.

The court also said:
"The claims of these old villages to their common field lots,
and the peculiar customs regarding them, were well known.
Congress, therefore, did not require that any documentary
evidence should be filed, nor a report of commissioners thereon. A survey was considered unnecessary, because the several
boundaries of each claimant of a lot, and the extent of his
possession, were already marked by boundaries, well known
among themselves. They required no record in the land office
to give validity to the title. The act is certainly not drawn
with much regard to technical accuracy. It is without that
certainty, as to parties and description of the property
graiited, which is required in formal conveyances. But a title
by statute cannot be thus criticised. It sufficiently describes
the lands intended to be granted, and the class of persons to
whom it is granted. Besides, it is not a donation, or mere
gift, requiring a survey to sever it from other lands of the
donor; but, rather, a deed of confirmation to those who are
admitted to have just claims. It passes a present title,Proprio
vigore, of the property described to the persons designated; a
patent to another afterwards, for any of these lands, would be
void, because the government had already released all title
and claim thereto. If Congress could not grant them to
another, much less could the arbitrary edict, or imperfect performance of a neglected duty by a ministerial officer, operate
to divest a clear title by statute." pp. 600, 601.
The land in question bad been in the possession of the
original defendant, Peter Lindell, for the time which would
be required to bar this action by the statute of limitations
before it was brought, and, extending as it does over a period of
thirty or forty years, it is only prevented from thus operating
by the principle which does not permit time to run against
the government. But it cannot lose its force or value in the
consideration of the question, whether the act of 1820 is to be
construed as granting lands to the State of X issouri for the use
of public schools which bad already passed to others under'

GLASGOW v. BAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of 1812 by virtue of prior occupation, cultivation, or
possession. When the defendants have proved that the land
in controversy either belonged to the "Grand Prairie Common Field of Saint Louis," or that the lots in dispute had been
inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to 1803, it would be
a very harsh rule to require one who claims to have purchased
the title arising from such occupation, cultivation, or possession, to prove with certainty and precision the time when, and
the person who, cultivated or occupied that precise property
eighty or ninety years ago. Those who could testify from
actual knowledge are perhaps all dead; the population of that
time has passed away, and the memories of any who may
be living would be very imperfect. Neither the spirit of the
statute, nor justice can require anything more than satisfactory
proof that according to the terms of the statute such lots, and
all the land within the Grand Prairie Common Field, had been
inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to the year 1803.
Such was the decision of the Supreme Court of the State of
Missouri in this case, reported in 50 Missouri, 60, again in '72
Missouri, 441, and finally in 85 Missouri, 559, which is now
under review. Such is also the spirit of all the decisions which
this court has made upon the subject, the substance of which
is found in Glasgow v. Hortiz, supra, which had relation to
one of the same class of lots in dispute here.
If we had any doubt as to the views above expressed, the
reasons for which seem to be very plain, the three decisions
above referred to of the Supreme Court of Missouri would be
entitled to very great consideration. They were made at
times so far apart that upon each occasion when a decision
was rendered th6 court probably consisted of an entirely different body of judges; and they were arrived at by a court
especially familiar with this class of questions, lying, as they
do, at the foundation of much of the most valuable property
in that State.
Other questions have been argued by counsel in this case,
and we have been urged in the brief to decide them; but as
this proposition is a broad one, which covers the whole case,
and is sufficient to dispose of it, we pursue our uniform course
VOL. cxXV--37

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Counsel for Parties.

of declining to consider other matters not necessary to a deterruination of the issue. If the plaintiff in this action had no
title under the act of 1820, because the United States had none
to give, he had no right of action, and the case was properly
decided against him.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is therefore
Afflrmed.

WALSTON v. NEVIN.
ROACH v. 1TEVIN.
ERROR TO THE COUIRT OF APPEALS OF THE COMIONWEALTH
RENTUCKY.

OF

Nos. 1129,1160. Submitted November 26, 188.-Decided December 10, 1888.

On motion to dismiss or affirm it is only necessary to print so much of the
record as will enable the court to act understandingly, without referring
to the transcript.
The party objecting that enough of the record is not printed to enable the
court to act understandingly, on a motion to dismiss should make specific
reference to the parts which he thinks should be supplied.
The Kentucky statute of March 24, 1882, which authorizes the city government of Louisville to open and improve streets and assess the cost thereof on the owners of adjoining lots, does not deprive such owners of
their property without due process of law, and does not deny them the
equal protection of the laws, and is not repugnant to Section 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
When on a motion to dismiss a writ of error or an appeal for want of jurisdiction or affirm the judgment below, it appears that there was color for
the motion to dismiss, and that the contention of the plaintiff in error or
the appellant has been often pressed upon the court and as often determined adversely, the motion to affirm will be granted.

THESE were motions to dismiss or affirm, under Rule 6,
Paragraph 5, 108 U. S. 575. The case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. J. IF Goodoe, for the motion.
.r.

B. F. Buckner opposing.

