KANE v. NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY.
Syllabus.

the meaning of that title. The court said, "The thing which
a guardian ad lite n is appointed to do is, to ' represent' the
infant in the action or proceeding, Code Civil Procedure
ยง 372, by which we understand that he is to conduct and
control the proceedings on behalf of the infant. Now the
attorney for minors in probate proceedings is to 'represent'
the minor, Code Civil Procedure ยง 1718, and so far as he is
concerned, to conduct and control the proceedings; so that
if the general provisions apply it would be possible to have
two representatives of the minor in the same contest, neither
of whom would be subordinate to the other. We do not
think that such a result could have been intended."
There are no other questions in the case which we deem it
necessary to discuss. We find no error in the judgment below,
and it is
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JusT=E FULLER was not a member of the court
when this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

KANE v. NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE OnOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 8. Submitted October 12, 188.-Decided October 22, IMS.

In an action by an employ6 of a railroad company against the company to
recover damages for personal injuries received by reason of the negligence of the company, in order to determine whether the employ6, by
recklessly exposing himself to peril, has failed to exercise the care for
his personal safety that might reasonably be expected, and has thus by
his own negligence contributed to causing the accident, regard must
always be had to the circumstances of the case, and the exigencies of his
position; and the decision of this question ought not to be withheld from
the jury unless the evidence, after giving the plaintiff the benefit of every
inference to be fairly drawn from it, so conclusively establishes contributory negligence, that the Court would be compelled,.in the exercise of
a sound judicial discretion, to set aside any verdict returned in his favor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

THis was an action to recover damages for personal injuries
sustained by the plaintiff while in the discharge of his duties
as an employ6 of the Northern Central Railway Company.
It was based upon the alleged negligence of the company in
not providing suitabla and safe appliances for the cars on
which the plaintiff was assigned for duty. At the conclusion
of the evidence introduced in his behalf the court directed a
verdict for the company.
It was in evidence that at midnight, in the month of February, a train of freight cars, belonging to or being operated
by the defendant, left Marysville, on its line of road, for the
city of Baltimore. The rear car was the caboose; the third
car from the caboose was an ordinary "house-car;" the fourth
one was laden with lumber. The car upon which the plaintiff was required to take position while the train was in motion
was about the eighth or tenth one from the caboose. His
principal duty was to "brake" the train from that car back to
the caboose. When the train, moving southward, was going
into York Haven, twenty miles from Marysville, the plaintiff,
while passing over it for the purpose of putting down the
brakes, discovered that the third car from the caboose had one
step off at the end neerest the engine, and immediately called
the attention of the conductor to the fact. The conductor
promised to drop that car at the coal yard or junction beyond
them in the direction of Baltimore, if, upon looking at his
manifests, he found that it did not contain perishable freight.
When the train stopped, about four or five o'clock in the morning, at Coldfelters, some miles north of the coal yard or junction, the plaintiff went to the caboose to eat his breakfast and
warm himself. It was snowing, freezing, and sleeting. One
of the witnesses testified that "it was a fearful cold night,
raining and sleeting; the train was covered with ice and
snow;
.
it was most bitter cold; the rain was freezing
as it fell; a regular winter's storm." While the plaintiff was
in the caboose eating his breakfast the train moved off. le
immediately started for his post, leaving behind his coat and
gloves. Upon reaching the south end of the third car from
the caboose he ittempt-d to let himself down from it in order

KANLE v. NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

to reach the next car ahead of him, which was the lumber car,
and pass over the latter to the one on which he usually stood
while the train was in motion. At the moment he let himself
down from the top of the house-car he forgot that one of its
steps was missing; and, before realizing the danger of his posi-'
tion, and without being able then to lift himself back to the
top of the car, he fell below upon the railroad track and between the wheels of the moving train, causing him to lose both
legs. The plaintiff testified that if, at the moment of letting
himself down from the top of the car, he had recalled the fact
that one of its steps was gone, he might have pulled himself
back with his hands, or have "slid down" on the brake rod;
for he had before climbed up and down by holding that rod
with one hand and putting his foot against it and pulling himself up until he touched the running board. He testified that
he could not remember how his mind was occupied at the
time; "only going to my post, my mind was on that; going
where I had the right to be." Again: "When the accident
happened, I was going to my place on the train. I had no
other duty on the top of the cars as the train was moving off,
unless the engineer calls for a signal, and generally he does do
that when the train is moving off. There is occasion for it in
all places where the train starts or stops, only in cities, where
we aren't allowed to blow them. We are required to notice
the train when it is running to see that it is all going; the
train might start and go one hundred yards and then break
loose."
This was, in substance, the case made by the plaintiff's evidence.
M>. James I. Gable, X. I. Dubois Miller, and Mr. Ti.
F. Bay Stewart for plaintiff in error.
.3r.TFayne .Mcleagh and Xr.A. E. Wintersteen for defendant in error.
iR. JusTcE HARL&N, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court rroceeded upon the ground that contributory negligence upon the part of the plaintiff was so conclusively established, thab it would have been compelled, in the
exercise of a sound judicial discretion, to set aside any verdict
returned in his favor. If the evidence, giving the plaintiff the
benefit of every inference to be fairly drawn from it, sustained
this view, then the direction to find for the defendant was
proper. Phwnix Insn'rance Co. v. _Doster, 106 U. S. 30, 32;
Randall v. Baltimor6 & Ohio Railroad, 109 IT. S. 478, 482;
Anderson County v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 241; Goodlet v.
Louisville & 117ashville Railroad,122 U. S. 391, 411.
But we are of opinion that the question of contributory
negligence should have been submitted to the jury. ;t cannot
be said that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence
in staying upon the train, in the capacity of brakeman, after
observing that a step was missing from one of the cars over
which he might pass while discharging his duties. An employ6 upon a railroad train, likely to meet other trains, owes
it to the public, as well as to his employer, not to abandon his
post unnecessarily. flesides, the danger arising from the defective car was not so imminent as to subject him to the
charge of recklessness in remaining at his post under the conductor's assurance that the car should be removed from the
train when it reached the coal yard or junction, if, upon examining his manifests, he found that it did not contain perishable freight. ]'ough v. Railroad Co., 100 U. S. 224; District
of Columbia v. .3JcEll'gott,117 U. S. 621, 631.
But it is said that the efficient, proximate cause of the injury to the plaintiff was his use of the defective appliances at
the end of the car from which he fell, when he knew, and, at
the moment of letting himself down from that car, should not
have forgotten, as he said he did, that one of its steps was
missing. It is undoubtedly the law that an employ6 is guilty
of contributory negligence, which, will defeat his right to recover for injuries sustained in the course of his employment,
where such injuries substantially resulted from dangers so obvious and threatening that a reasonably prudent man, under
similar circumstances, would have avoided them if in his power

KANE v. NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

to do so. He will be deemed, in such case, to have assumed
the risks involved in such heedless exposure of himself to
danger. Hougk v. Railroad Co., District of Columbia v.
.fcEJlligott, and Goodlekt v. Louisville &ti.Nashville Railroad
above cited; .rorthern Paci~c Railroadv. Herbert, 116 U. S.
642. But in determining whether an employ6 has recklessly
exposed himself to peril, or failed to exercise the care for his
personal safety that might reasonably be expected, regard
must always be had to the exigencies of his position, indeed,
to all the circumstances of the particular occasion. In the
case before us, the jury may, not unreasonably, have inferred
from the evidence, that while the plaintiff was passing along the
tops of the cars, for the purpose of reaching his post, he was
so blinded or confused by the darkness, snow, and rain, or so
affected by the severe cold, that he failed to observe, in time
to protect himself, that the car from which he attempted to
let himself down was the identical one which, during the previous part of the night, he had discovered to be without its
full complement of steps. While a proper regard for his
own personal safety, and his duty to his employer, required
that he should bear in mind, while passing over the cars to his
station, that one of them was defective in its appointments, it
was also his duty to reach his post at the earliest practicable
moment, for not only might the safety of the moving train
have depended upon the brakemen being at their posts, but
the engineer was entitled to know, as the train moved off, by
signals from the brakemen, if necessary, that none of the cars
constituting the train had become detached. If it be suggested that the plaintiff ought not to have left his post and
gone to the caboose when the train stopped at C'oldfelters, the
answer, furnished by the pr6of, is, that he was justified in so
doing, by usage and by the extraordinary sqverity of the
weather. And if his going back from the caboose was characterized by such haste as interfered with a critical examination of the cars as he passed over them, that may, in some
measure at least, have been due to the fact that the first
notice he had of the necessity of immediately returning to his
post, was that the train was moving off.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Without further discussion of the evidence, and without intimating what ought to be the verdict upon the issue of contributory negligence, we are of opinion that the court erred
in not submitting to the jury to determine whether the
plaintiff in forgetting, or not recalling, at the precise moment,
the fact that the car from which he attempted to let himself
down was the one from which a step was missing, was in
the exercise of the degree of care and caution which was
incumbent upon a man of ordinary prudence in the same
calling, and under the circumstances in which he was placed.
If he was, then he was not guilty of contributory negligence
that would defeat his right of recovery.
Judgment is reversel and the case remanded, with direotions
to grant a new trial.

NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SURIEME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAA.
No 990. Argued October 11, 1888.-Decided October 22, 1888.

A State statute which requires locomotive engineers and other persons,
employed by a railroad company in a capacity which calls for the ability
to distinguish and discriminate between color signals, to be examined in
this respect from time to time by a tribunal established for the purpose,
and which exacts a fee from the company for the service of examination,
does not deprive the company of its property without due process of law,
and, so far as it affects iiterstate commerce, is within the competency of
the State to enact, until Congress legislates on the subject.
The provision in Article 1.. of the Constitution of the United States which
provides that the trial of all crimes" shall be held in the State where the
said crimes shall have been committed," relates only to trials in Federal
Courts, and has no application to trials in State Courts.

THE case is stated in the opin ion of the court.

Ab'r. Oscalr R. Hundey for plaintiff in error.

