WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

39

Opinion of the Court.
'IR.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

did not sit in this case, or take any

part in the decision.
MIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and MR. JUSTICE LAAR_ were
not members of the court when this case was argued, and took
no part in its decision.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 56.

Submitted October 18, 1888.-Decided October 22, 1888.

On the authority of Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and Rattermnan
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, this case is reversed andremanded for such further proceedings as justice may require.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

ilk. ff. E. Olrnsted for plaintiff in error.
2.A. Th S. iirpatrick,Attorney General of Pennsylvania,
for defendant in error. -Mr. John F. Sanderson, Deputy
Attorney General, was also on the brief.
ISIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Judgment was rendered against plaintiff in error for taxes
on telegraphic messages sent from point to point within the
State of Pennsylvania; on messages sent from points within
the State to points in other States; on messages sent froin
points in other States to points within the State; and on messages sent to and from points in other States, which passed
over lines partly within the State; and the record discloses
the several amounts of taxes upon the several classes of messages, which, with commissions and interest, make up the
total recovery. It is clear, and this is conceded by the defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

ant in error, that, under the decisions of this court in Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and Ratterman v. TUestern
Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, the Commonwealth was
not entitled to recover for the taxes in question, excepting in
respect to the messages transmitted wholly within the State.
TAe judgment wvilZ therefore be reversed and the cause 'e-

manded for such further proceedings as justice may require.

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK, COM[-

MIISSIONER OF PENSIONS.
UNITED STATES ex 'el. ROSE v. SANJEE.
UNITED STATES ex Pel. MILLER v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COIRT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos.'991, 992, 993.

Argued October 12, 1888. -Decided

October 22, 1888.

The courts will not interfere by mandamus with the executive officers of the
government in the exercise of their ordinary official duties, even where
those duties require an interpretation of the law; no appellate power being given them for that purpose.
When an executive officer of the government refuses to act at all in a case
in which the law requires him to act, or when, by special statute, or
otherwise, a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon him, that is, a service which he is bound to perform without further question, if he refuses mandamus lies to compel him to his duty.
The Commissioner of Pensions by receiving the application of a pensioner
for an increase of his pension under the act of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat.
281, c. 236, and by considering it and the evidence in support of it, and
by deciding adversely to the petitioner, performs the executive act which
the law requires him to perform in such case; and the courts have no
appellate power over him in this respect, and no right to review his
decision.
A decision of the Commissioner of Pensions adverse to the application of a
pensioner for an increase of pension, under a statute granting an increase
in certain cases, being overruled by the Secretary of the Interior on the
ground that the applicant comes under the meaning of the law granting
the increase, and the Commissioner refusing to carry out the decision of

