OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

v. _ath'op, 142 Mass. 29, 35. In TWheato, v. Peters,at p. 668,
it was said by this court, that it was "unanimously of opinion
that no reporter has or can have any copyright in the written
opinions delivered by this court; and that the judges thereof
cannot confer on any reporter any such right." What a court,
or a judge thereof, cannot confer on a reporter as the basis of
a copyright in him, they cannot confer on any other person
or on the State.
Z7te decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. COOK.
APPEAL FROM THE COUIT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1163. Submitted November 5,1888. -Decided November 19,1888.

A cadet-midshipman at the naval academy is an officer of the navy within
the meaning of the provision in the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 473, c.
97, respecting the longevity pay of officers and enlisted men in the army
or navy.
United States v. Baker, 125 U. S. 646, and United States v. Hendee, 124 U. S.
'309, followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard and _M. F. P.
-Dewees for appellants.
Xrl. Robert B. Lines and .Mr. John Paul Jones for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRAD= delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment rendered by the Court
of Claims against the United States in favor of Simon Cook,
for the sum of $1000. Cook was appointed a cadet-midshipman in the navy, June 6th, 1873, graduated at the naval
academy June 18th, 1879, and was appointed ensign November 15th, 1881. Ile claims additional pay under the act of
March 3d, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473, which is as follows:

UNITED STATES v. COOK.
Opinion of the Court.

"And all officers of the Navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men
in the regular or volunteer Army or Navy, or both, and shall
receive all the benefits of such actual service, in all respects, in
the same manner as if all said service had been continuous,
and in the regular Navy, in the lowest grade having graduated
pay held by such officer since last entering the service."
If entitled to credit in his grade of ensign with the time of
his service as cadet-midshipman, there is still due the claimant
the sim of $1000. The claim of the appellants is, that, in the
sense of the above cited act, the appellee did not se.ve either
as an officer or enlisted man while a student at the naval
academy.
After the 12th section of the act of July 15th, 1870, 16 Stat.
334, students at the naval academy were to be styled "cadetmidshipmen," and after graduation were to be appointed midshipmen and promoted to the grade of ensign, as vacancies
might occur. Prior to that act students at the naval academy
were styled midshipmen. The form of appointment was the
same before and after the act; in both cases it was signed by
the Secretary of the Navy, by direction of the President, and
the position and duties were precisely the same.
In the case of United 8tates v. Baker, 125 U. S.646, 649, it
was held that Baker, who was appointed prior to the act of
July 15th, 1870, a midshipman at the naval academy, but who
did not graduate until after the act bad been passed, was entitled to pay, under the act of March 3d, 1883, from the time of
his entrance at the naval academy. It is difficult to see how
the present case can be distinguished from that. Calling the
student.a cadet-midshipman instead of a midshipman, without
changing his position or his duties, does not make his status
different from what it was before. In the Baker case, speaking by Mr. Justice Blatchford, this court said: "But even if
ยง 12 of the act of 1870 applies so far to those who were then
students in the naval academy, that they were thereafter to
be styled cadet-midshipmen, yet they were still to discharge the
same duties as before, and be subject to the same naval discipline and control as before, and to receive the same pay as

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

before. We see nothing in the act of 1S70 to exclude the
claimant from the position which he occupied prior to the passage -of that act, as a member of a grade in the active list of
line officers of the navy, so far as respected his service at .the
naval academy after the date of the passage of that act,
whether he was thereafter to be styled a cadet-midshipman or
to continue to be styled a midshipman."
Again the court said: "It is impossible not to conclude that
the claimant continued to be after the passage of the act of
1870, as he was prior to its passage, an officer of the navy on
the active list, and serving as such an officer by virtue of his
having been appointed a midshipman and continuing to be a
student in the naval academy, even though he might have
been properly styled after the passage of the act of 1870 a
cadet-midshipman."
We think that the views thus expressed in the Baker case
were sound, and we adhere to them.
That a midshipman is an officer has been understood ever
since there was a navy. He is not one of the common seamen. His name indicates a middle position, between that of a
superior officer and that of the common seaman. (Imp. Diet.)
Harris, in the early part of last century, and Johnson in the
middle of it, defined "Midshipmen" as "officers aboard a
ship."
Cooper, in his "History of the Navy of the United
States," speaking of the Colonial period in the middle of the
last century, says: "About this time, it also became a practice
among the gentry of the American provinces to cause their
p. 34.
sons to be entered as midshipmen in the royal navy."
The first act of Congress under the constitution establishing a
navy, after naming the superior officers to be employed on
each ship, designates the following "warrant officers," to be
appointed by the President, namely: "One sailing master,
one boatswain, one gunner, one sail-maker, one carpenter and
eight midshipmen ;" and these are placed before "petty officers," mentioned in the same connection. Act of March 27,
1794, 1 Stat. 350. If the law designates a cadet as a midshipman, the designation is an official one. The qualification of
cadet-midshipman is used for the sake of distinction, to distin-

UNITED STATES v. COOK.
Opinion of the Court.

guish one kind of midshipman from another, a midshipman at
school from a midshipman aboard ship.
In the case of Unwited States v. Liendee, 124 U. S. 309, 313,
it appeared that Hendee was a paymaster, and had been promoted from a paymaster's clerk, and this court, by Mr. Justice
Miller, said: "The claimant here is an officer of the navy, and
is, therefore, to be credited with the actual time that he served
as an officer or enlisted man in the regular or volunteer army
or navy, or both. We think the words Iofficers or enlisted
men in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both,' were
intended to include all men regularly in the service in the
army or navy, and that the expression 'officers or enlisted
men' is not to be construed distributively as requiring that a
person should be an enlisted man, or an officer nominated and
appointed by the President, or by the head of a Department,
but that it was meant to include all men in service, either by
enlistment or regular appointment, in the army or navy. We
are of the opinion that the word ' officer' is used in that statute in the more general sense which would include a paymaster's clerk; that this was the intention of Congress in its
enactment, and that the collocation of the words means this,
especially when it is added that they 'shall receive all the
benefits of such actual service in all respects and in the same
manner as if said service had been continuous and in the regular navy.'"1
The decisions in the cases of Hendee and Baker render it
unnecessary to go over again the history of the legislation
that bears on the subject.
Thze decree of the Court of Claims is affirmed.
voL. cxxvI-17

