SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM S.

NICHOLLS, AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, v8. THoAS
HODGES, EXECUTOR OF THOMAS C. HODGES, DECEASED.

The Orphans' Court, by the testamentary laWs of Marjyand, has a seneral
power toadminister justice in all matters relative to the affairs pf deceased persons according to law. The 6ommission to be allowed to an executor'or administrator, is submitted to the discretion of the Court, and
is to be not under five per cent.,' nor -exceediig ten per cent. on the
amount of theinventoiry. 15651
If the 'ex'ecutor has a claim.on'the estate of the deceased, it shall stand on
an equal footing with other claims'of the same nature. {5651
On a plenary proc~eding, if either, party shall require it, the Court will direst an issu6 or issues to be made up, and sent to a court of law to be
tried; and any person conceiving himself aggrieved by anypjdgment, decree,'decislon or order, may appeal to the Court of Chancery, or to a
Court of Law; and in MAryland, the decision of the Court to which the ap.
peal is made is final.. f5651
The Supreme Cour of the United States has jurisdiction-of appeals from
the Orphans' Court, through the Circuit Court for the county of Washington, by'virtue of the Act of Congresa of February 13,1801;,and by the
Actof Congress subsequently psed, the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, must exceed the value of $1000 in order to entitle the party to an
appeal.: {565}
The commission to be allowed to the executdr or administrator is submitted
by-law to the discr'etion of the Court, upon 'a consideration of all the circumstances, and it was obviously the intention of the legislature, that the
decision of the Orphang' Co.urt should be final and conclusive. f565}
The Court being satisfied by an examination of the evidence contained in
the record of the proceedings of the Orphans' Court of the county of
Washington, relative to a claim made upon the estate of the testator by the
executor,, that the' said, evidence was too loose and indefinite to sanction
the claim, disallowed the same; and reversed the decree of the Orphan
Court which allowed the claim, 1 66}
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Washington county in
the District of Columbia.
The defendant obtained letters testamentary on the estate of
Thomas C. -fodges "deceased, and passed his accounts in the
Orphans' Court of Washington county, in which he was allowed
10 per cent. commission on the inventory of the deceased's estate amounting to $2358 70,'and S1200 for services rendered
by him to the deceased.
The testamentary law of Maryland, under which this commission was allowed, isin these words :"His commission, which shall be at the -discretion of the
Court, not under five per cent. nor exceeding ten per cent. on
the amount of the inventory."-Act of Maryland, ch. 101. sub.
ch. 10. sect. 2..

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

563

(Nicholls et al. vs. Hodges' Ex-)
The appellants, creditors of the deceased's estate, filed their
petition in the Orphans" Court pbjecting to the allowance of
these claims; and upon the answer of the appellee and the testimony taken in the cause, the Judge of "the Orphans' Court
decided in favour of the _hppellee, -and allowed these claims.
From this decision an appeal was prayed to the Circuit Court
for Washington county,. where'the judgment of the Orphans'
Court was affirmed.
From this decision this appeal was made.
The deposition of William 'W. Corcoran, "PhilipT. Berry,
John S. Hare,James A. Magruder and Isaac S. Nicholls were
taken, and were sent up with this record. These depositions
were intended to prove; that the boar'd.and expenses of Thomas
C. Hodges, were paid by the deceased, by whom he was employed in his store as an assistant. That when the'executorwas
spoken to'about the account he had raised against the estate of
the testator, he stated, he was .sorry he had brought forward
the account, and that he should not have done so but by the
advice of another. That he had said, that his uncle the testator did not agree to give him wages, but' a share ot the property was promised, but no agreement was nmade.
I The depositions also stated,-that some six moxiths before the
death of the testator, the defendant applied for wages, which
were refused, and he was told to take money from the drawer,
and goods from the store, and if not satisfied lie might return
to his father. That it-was understood the appellee was in the
store of the testator as a clerk. The testator observed at the
time of making.his will, that'he had given the defendant, his
nephew, a legacy, as a consideration for his services; he hadalways intended to giv6 him something; he gave him. the legal.
cy for his services because he had not been paid for them. It
was also testified that the executor had a good deal of trouble
in settling the estate.
The counsel for the appellants endeavoured to maintain,
1. That the claims of the executor had been improperly allowed by the Court below.
2. That the evidence shows the commissioi allowed is unjust.and unreasonable.
3. The appellee had no legal claim for services -rendered to
the deceased.
Mr. Key for the appellant.The evidence does not establish any claim to the compensation claimed by the appellee. On the contrary, he-himself acknowledged he had no blaim. But if any debt was due to him,
the amount thereof could not be ascertained by the course
adopted in this, case. It must become the subject of prool like
all other demands an the estate.

.04

SUPREME COURT.

(Nicholls et a]. ws.Hodges' Ex.)
It is contended that no appeal is allowed in this case, because tne -provisions of the law of Maryland leave to "the dis.cretion" of the Court, the determination of the amount of corn"mqissions. What is the meaning of the assertion that no appea:
can be .maintained in such a case? It is only when the exercise
of discretion by the Court is matter of favour or indulgence,
that the rule applies; but vhen there are legal rights, the discretion of'the Court applies to those rights, and its exercise is a
matter of law, and like all others, when exercised is examinabbMr. Coxe for the appellee.This is an applicatioi to have an examination of an account
which has been passed upon by the Orphans' Court. It is denied that a matter, to be d6termined by the discretion of the
Court, can be the subject of appeal. The party must point out
an error in law, and if the allowance by the Court it not beyond
the per centage authorized by the statute, there cannot be such
error.
These accounts having been passed by the Orphans' Court,
before whom were all the facts, the o ily remedy which remains is upon the bond given by the executor; and in such an
action all the matters are open for examination.
IMr. Justice DUVAL delivered the opinion of the Court.The appellee in this case obtained letters testamentary on the
estate of Thomas C. Hodges, deceased, and passed accounts
in the Orphans' Court for Washington county, in which he
was allowed ten per cent. commission on the inventory of the
deceased's estate amounting to 92,S58 70, and 91200 for services rendered to the deceased in his lifetime. The appellants,
creditors of the deceased, finding that the estate would probably be insufficient to pay the-full amount of their claims,
filed their petition in the Orpham' Court objecting ta the allowance of the claims of the executor, alleging that :he property of the deceased consisted' only of a store of goods in
Georgetown, apd a few debts due to him; and'that the settlementof the estatb was made without much labour or expense.
Upon the answer of the executor, and the testimony taken in
the cause, the Judge of the Orphans' Court decided in favour
of the executor, and decreed th t both claims be allowed.
From this decree an appeal was pryed and granted to the Circuit Court for Washington county, in which ihe judgment of
the Orphans' Court was affirmed. From this decision the
cause is brought up, by-appeal, to this Court for final hearing
and decree.
Several questions have been raised in arguing this cause.
QO the part of the appellants, it is contended, First, that the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

565

(Nicholls et al. vs. Hodges' Ex.)
allowance of ten per cent. on th6 inventory,, circumstanced as
this case appears to be, is unjust and unreasonable. 'Secozfd[ly,
That there is no foundation tor the claim of 91200, made' by
the executor for services' rendered the testat6r in his lifetime.
The counsel for the appellee contends, First, that the whole
allowance'made by the Orphans' Court was no more than "a
moderate compensation for the attention and prompt settleiment of the accounts of the-deceased, by the executor, and for
his services for several years as a clerk in the store of the deceased; and secondly, that the decision of the Orphans' Court
was final and conclusive, and friom which there ought tohave
been no appeal.
The power and authority of the Orphan.S' Court is deriyed
'from the testamentary laws of'Maryland.. The last geileral
Act upon thesubject,- is that passed in the year,1798,'ch. 10l.
The Orphans' Court has a general power, to administer jilstice in all matters relative to the affairs of deceased persons,
according to law. Th6 commission to-be allowed to "anexecutor or administrator" is submitted to the discretion of. the
Codrt, " not under five per cent. nor exceeding ten per cent, on
the amount of the inventory." If'the executor has a claim
against the deceased, it shall stand on -an equal footing *ith
other claims of the same nature.. On a plenary proceeding, if
either party shall require, the Court will direct'an issue or issues to be made up and' sent- to a Court of Law to be tried, and
any person conceiving himself 'ggrieved by any judgment, decree, decision or order, may appeal. to the Court of Chancery,
or to, a Court of Law. ,And In. Maryland, the.d6cision of the
Court to which the appeal is* made, is final and 'conclusive.
But in the case under consideration, -this Court" has jurisdiction by virtue of the Act of Cqngress of February" 1801, by
which the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia wad.cre-,
ated, which provides that "any final 'Judgment, order or de-,
cree, in the said Circuit Court, wherein the matter in dispute exclusive of costs, shall etceed the value 9 f 8100,'may
be re-examified,-and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the United St.les, by writ of error or appeal.." By an Act
of Congress subsequently passed, the iftatter in dispute,,exclusive of costs, must exceed the value of 91000 in order to entitle the party to an appeal.
With respect to the commission'to be allowed to'the executor or administrator, it is submitted by law to the discretion of
the Court, not less than five, nor more than ten'per cent.
They may allow the lowest, or highest rate, or: any intermediate proportion between the minimirm and max imuin, to which,
in their discretion, they may adjudge the party to be- entitled

RUPREME COURT.
(Nicholls et al. wt.Hodges' E.)
upon a.eonsideration of all circumstances, according to the ser-,
vices rendered, and the trouble and expense in completing the
adninistration. Upb6 a just construction of this Act, it was
obviohusly th'e intention of the legislature, that the detision of
the Orphans' Court should be final and-conclusive, and such is
the opinion of this Court. "
-The clait'of Sf100, for services rendered.in the lifetime of
the testator, restsau o different ground. The law places it "on
an~equal footing-wth otherc aims of the same nature." The
legality and equity of the claim, must be examined in the same
mainer as the claim of any other creditor., Of course, it;is a
-claim, on the trial of which either party might have required
a. trial by jury in the manner prescribed by law. But this was
not asked, and the claim was submitted in gross to- the decision of the Orphans! Court. and was decided on in like mannei bk 'theCircuit Court; and it is now brought in the same
shape before this Court.
"-To support a claim bf this ,nature, it is incumbent on the
party making it to prove some contract, promise, or agreeuierit, ex,pressed, or implied, in relation to it. The testimony
contined in the redord may be'summed up in a few,words.. It
is. admitted by,the appellee, that there. was no agreement to
pay him'wages.. It is in proof that le Jived with his uncle
thred or four fears in the capacity of a clerk, and that for more
than half the time he wa' -the oxily clerIC in the store, his uncle
lihaving greatconfidence in him. That it -was distinctly understood between them, that the testator had agreed to pay *his
board, t4 find him in clothing, and to pay Jiis expenses ge-,
nerally; that 'it was customary among merchants to take
young men,- of a certain age, for their-board and clothes; that
the uncle had said that at a future day he intended to take
h ) into piartnership with him4; and it was proved thatthe
testator, at the time of making his will, observed that he had
given. his nephew a legacy as a Consideiation for.his servicesi
agd that he had always intended to -give him something. It is
not denied that the testator- had fully complied with his eh:-,
gagement to pay his board, supply him with clothes, and pay
hisexpenses. On this testimony the claim tests., The evidence is too defective to reqiuire comment. It is the opinion of
this Court that it ,istoo'loose and indeterminate to sanction
the claim, and it cannot be Mlowed.
The decree of the Circuit.Court; affirming the decree of the
Or1phans' Court, as to this claim, is reversed; in all othltr rmspects it is affirmed. -

