SUPREME COURT.

DuNcAN M'A-ruitr,

PLAiNrrF Ix ERROR, VS. WRZSIEY S. PaRTER'S LEssEE.

A special verdict, was found .ythe pry, upon whic. judgment was to be
entered according as the opinion of the Court night be upon the construction ofa certain deed, ,wbich deed, was refefred to, and made part
of the special-finding of the jury, bbt'was not contained in the record

thereof. ' A deed formed a part of"a bill of excptions, taken to the-opi.
niin of thd Court, upon a motion for a new trial; which bill ofexceptions,
with the-said deed, was contiined in the record. The Court cannot judicially know thkt this is the same deed which is referred to in the verdict
'of the jury, or what arethe other evidences of title connected with it,

THIS case came up by writ of error to the Circuit Court
-of the District of Ohio, and was 'arguedd by Mr. Baldwin, for
the plaintiff, in error, and by'Mr. Ewing, for the defendant in
error. The cause was remanded to the Circuit Court in consequence of a defect in the record, and no opiniors having been
given by.the Court upon- the'points presented and discussed
by the counsel, they are omitted-Mr.
Chief Iustice MAnsHALL delivered the opinion of the
'Court:-

This was an ejectment in the Court for the seventh Circuit
and District-of Ohio, in which the jury found. a vefdict in the
follo*ing words: "We the jury find the' defendant guilty of the

trespass.and ejectment, in the declaration mentioned, and assess the plaintiff'k dmlages to six cents, which verdict is thus
rendered, subject to the opinion of the Court on the question
reseryed by consent of parties, as to so much of the land in controversy, as is contained in the deed, of the sheriff of Ross
county, to the said defendant, bearing date the
day of
1809, and upon that part of the land'included in said deed.
If the opinion of the' Court on the question so reserved by
.consent, shall be with the .plaintiff, that the said deed isnot
valid to 'pass the land therein described, then we the jury
find the'defendant guilty of the trespass and ejectment in the
declaration mention*ed, accordingly, for that part also; and if
the opinion of the Court thereon shall be in favour of the defendant, that said deed, with the otfier evidences exhibited as
part-of said title, is valid .to pass the fee to the defendant; then
the jury find the defendant not gtlilty of the trespass and ejectment in the said declaraiion mentioned, as to that part of the
lands and premises in controversy."

This conditional verdict is for the plaintiff, or defendant, ac-

JANUARY TERM

18U.

$27

(W'Arthar vs. Potters Lessee.)
cording to-the opinion of the 'Court-on the validity of a dee4U
with the other evidences exhibited ps.art of said title. But
this deed, and these other evidences of title are not exhibited
to the Co.lurt, ifi such manner as to enable us to notice -tQeif. A
deed does, indeed, form a pait of a bill of exception tiaken to
the opinion of the Court, 'on a.motion ubsequently made for a
new trial. But -theCourt'cannot know, judicially,..that this is
the satne' deed which is referred to in 'the verdict, or what
are the other evidences of title Wfihch are .connecte'd Wijth-it.
The verdict is too imierfect to*enable the Court.to render
judg -hent on 'it.
The judgment of the. Circuit Court is :therefore reversed,
,and the cause remanded to the Ciquit Court, with dirctions
to set aside the verdict, and*to gward a ver~f~qm. de if"o.
This cause came on, &c. in -consideration whereof, It is the
opinic Qf this Cour, that the- judgnent of the said -Circuit
Court in -this cause is erroneous,, because. the verdict is implpr.
fect. It is therefore considered and 'adjudged by'this Vourt
that the said. judgment b'i,'and the same is-hereby reversed and
annulled. And it is further ordered, that this cause be remanded to the said Circuiit Court, with directions to ,ward a vaigre

facia d nowo.

