SUPREME COURT

JAXES ELLIOTT THE YOUNGER. BENJAMIN ELLIOTT, A2DERSOi%
TAYLOR, REUBEN PATER, .PATSEY ELLIOTT, AND WILFORD
LEPELL, vs. THE LESSEE OF WILLIAM PEIRSOL, LYDIA PEIRSOL, ANN NORTH, JANF. NORTH, SOPHIA NORTH, ELIZABETH
F. 'P. NORTH, AND WILLIAM NORTH, DEFENDA.TS IN ERROR.
A letter from a deceased member of a family, stating "the pedigree of the
family, and sworn by the wife to have been written by her husband, who
also swore, in her deposition, that the facts stated in the letter, had been
frequently mentioned by her husband if his lifetime, is legal evidence;
as is also the deposition of the witness, in a question of pedigee. {337}
The rule of evidence, that in questions of pedigree, the declarations of
aged and deceased members of the family, may be proved;and given in
evidence. has not been controverted. 13S7}
In a case where a controversy had arisen, or was expected to arise, between
parties, concerning the validity of a deed, against which one of the parties claimed, but no controversy was then expected to -rise about the
heirship ; a letter written, stating the pedigree of the claimants, was not
considered as excluded, by the rule of law which declares, that declarations .relating to pedigree, made post item motarn, cannot be given in
evidence. {3371
Where the defendant had reserved a right to move the Court to exclude
any part ofthe plaintiff's evidence, which hemight choose to designate as incompetent, andit did not appear from the bill of exceptions, that he desig•nated any particular piece or part of the evidence as objectionable, and
moved the Court to exclude the whole, or to instruct the jury that it was
insufficient to prove title in the lessors of the plaintiff; this could not be
dope on the ground of incompetency, unless the whole was incoifpetent. The Court is not.bocnd to do more than respond to the motion,
in the terms in which it is made. Courts of justibe are not obliged to
modify the propositions submitted by counsel, so as to make them fit the
ease. If they do not fit, that is enough to authorize their rejection.
13381
Th-e privy examination and acknowledgment of a deed, by a feme owert,
so as to pass her estate, 4annot be legally proved by parol testimony.
13381
In Virginia and Kentucky, the modes of conveyance by fine and commot
recovery, have never been in common use; and in these states, the capacity of a feme covert to convey her estate by deed, is the creature of
the statute law; and to mreake her deed effettual, the forms and solemnities prescribed by the statutes, must be pursued. {S381
By the Virginia statute of 1748, "when any deed has been acknowledged
by afeme covert, and no record made of her privy examination, such de'ed
was adopted by Ken.
h
is not binding upon thefeme and her heirs. "rislaw
tucky, at her separation from Virginia; and is understood never to have
beenrepealed. 1339}
The provisions of the laws of Kentu6ky, relative to the privy examination
of afeme covert, in order to make a conveyance of her estate valid. {339J
It is the construction of the Act of 1810, that the clerks of the County

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

329

(Elliott et al.vs. Peirsol et,a].)
Court of Kentucky, have authority to take acknowledgments and privy
examinations of femes co.ert-, in all cases of deeds made by them and
1339}to oe done, and appear of record, can only be done,
theirthe
husbands.
What
law requires
and made'to appear by the record itseli; or an exemplification of it. it
is peifectly immaterial, whether there be an acknowledgment or privy
examination in form, or not, if there'be no record m~ade of the privy examination; for, by tihe express provisions of the law, it is not the fact of
privy examination only, but thle recording of thle fact, which makes the
deed effectual to pasus thle estate of a feme covert. {340}.
A deed fr'om 1)aro~m and fenie, of lands in thle state of Kenuky, executed
to a tld'rd person, by which the land of thefeme was intendedi tobe convey'ed for the purpose of a r'e-conveyance to the husband, and thus to
vest in him thle estate of the wife ; was endorsed by the clerk of Woodford County Court,"'acknowledged by James Elliott, and Sarah G. Elliott,
September 11th 1816," and was certified as follows :-"Attest, J. M'Ken.
"ney, Jun. Clerkc."
1813.
September 11ltb
"7 iFodtford County, ss.
"This deed fr'om James Elliott, and Sarah G. Elliott his wife, to Benjamin
Elliott, was this day produced'before fue, and acknuwledged by said James
andi Sarah to be their act and deed, and the same Tsduly recorded.
John M'Kenney, Jun. C. C. C."
Hteld, that subsequtent proceedings of time Court of Woodford County, by
which thedefects of thle certificate of the clerk to state the privy examination of thefeme, (which, by the laws of Kentucky, is necessa~y to
make a conveyance of the estate of afeme covert legal,) were intende~1-'
to be cured upon evidence that the privy examination was made by the
clerk, will not supply the defect, or give validity to thle deed. {S40|
If the Court of a state had jurisdiction of a matter, its decision would be
conclusiv&; but this Court cannot yield assent to the proposition, that
the jiurisdiction of a state Court cannot.be questioned, where its proceedings were brought, collaterally, before the Circhtit Court of thle United
States. {340}
'Where a Court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide aniy question which
occurs in the cause ; and, whether its decision be correct, or otherwise,
its judgmnents, until reversed, are reganled as binding in every other
Court. But if it act without autthority, its juldgments and orders are regarded a.s
nullities. They are not voidsble, but simply void; and form no
bar to a remedy sought in oppcisitiomr to them, even prior to a reversal.
Trhey constitute no justification; and all persons concerned in executing
such judgments, or sentences, are considered, in lay, as trespassers.
{34o}
Thle jurisdiction of any Court, exercising authority over a subj'ect, may be
former
proceeding's
of the th-e
when
thle by
otherbefore
Court,the
inquired
bea pty laiing
latter
brought
on, in
andevery
reliedinto
are
nefit'of such proceedings. {340}
The juridiction atd "authority of thne Courts of Kentuck, ar derived
b41}
vholly from the statute law of the state. {
.alter
te record
The clerk of Woodford County Court, has no authority to
of the acknowledgment of a weed, ati a time:afte the record is made

{241}
WRIT of error to tme Circuit Court of Kentucky.
William Peiraol, and Lydia Peirsol, his wife, AtB North,
Jane North Sophia North, Elizanbeth F. P. dorth, and Wi-

VoJ,..I.

T

SUPREME COURT.
(Elliott et a]. vs. Peirsol et al.)
1ialn North, citizens of Pennsylvania, heirs of Sarah G. Elliott, rommenced their action of ejectment against James Elliott
the younger, and others, the plaintiffs in error, in the Circuit
Couft for the district of Kentucky, to recover the possession
of 1200 acres of land, part of 2000 acres patented to Griffin
Peart.
The plaintiffs proved, that, upon the division of the whole
body among the heirs of Griffin Peart, the 1200 acres in contest was allotted to Sarah G. Peart, one of the heirs, and thal
she was seised thereof in severalty. Sarah G. Elliott, formerly
Peart, she having intermarried with James Elliott, died about
1829, without issue; Francis Peart, and Le Roy Peart, brothers
of Sarah Elliott, died shortly before her, also without issue.
The boundaries of the 1200 acres, and the possession by the
defendants, was not controverted.
The plaintiffs below, claimed the premises, as the heirs of
Sarah G. Elliott, formerly Sarah G. Peart; and they sought to
establish their heirship by the deposition of Mrs. Braugh, widow of.. Robert Braugh; who swears. that the letter annexed to
her deposition, addressed to William Peirsol, Philadelphia, is
in the handwriting of her deceased husband. She also states,
that she frequently heard him speak of his family connexions,
and has always understood from him, that the late Mrs. Mary
North, formerly Mary Peart, and the late Mrs. S. G. Elliott,
were cousins, both on the side of' the father and mother; and
that the statements in the letter, correspond with the other
statements she hard him make uporf the subject of the pedigree of the two ladies; which lett.1, proves the present plaintiffs to be the only heirs of Mrs. Sarah'G. Elliott, at the time
of'her death. Other depositions were read to the same effect.
On the 12th of June 1813, James Elliott, and Sarah G. Elliott,
executed a deed, by which the premises in question were ex
pressed to be conveyed to Benjamin Elliott, under whom the
plaintiffs in error claimed to hold the same.
The defendants below, moved the Circuit Court to instruct
the jury,.that the evidence adduced by the plaintiffs to establish
their heirship to Sarah G. Elliott, was insffcient, and that the
same ought to be excluded. The Court refusd so to-do; but,
on the contrary, instructed the jury, that the said evidence, if
believed by the jury, was prinaf arce testimonly, that the lessors
of the plaintiffs were the legal h-irs of the said Sarah Peart,
alias, Sarah G. Elliott.
Inrelation tothe deed of 12th June 1853, to Benjamin Elliott, it was contended below, that Sarah G. Elliott never did
execifte the same, in the manner described aind required by law,
and that the fee simple estate of Mrs. Elliott, did not pass
thereby. The provisions of the law relative to the privv exa-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

331

(Elliott et al. vs. Peirsol et al.)
mination of aftne covert, by the officer, the clerk of the Court,
or in open Court, and to the recording thereof, were alleged
not to have been complied with; and consequently, the estate
of Mrs. Elliott did not pass, by the conveyance, to Benjamin
Elliott. It was also claimed, on the part of the plaintiffs in error, that if a privy examination and acknowledgment were
made, it was not recorded; and unless recorded, no title passes
to divest the title of the feme covert. The Circuit Court decid-,
ed this point in favour of the defendants in error; and the case
was brought up, upon a bill of excleptions.
Mr. Wirt, Attorney General, .for the plaintiffs in error.
1. The letter of Mrs. Ann Brafgh -to William Peirsol, is
not evidence. Although the declarations of members of families are evidence in questions of pedigree, yet this rule is not
universal, and it does- not apply, when higher evidence can be
obtained. 3 Stark. Evid. 1t99. 1011. 3 14arslull, 321.
The letter was written with a view to, or under the influence of, the approach of this suit; post lithei rnotain, and sucl)
evidence is not admissible. 3 Starkie, 1102. 1104.
2. As to the admissibility of the deed to Benjamin Elliott,
and the alleged defect of the acknowledgment of the femne covert, Sarah G. Elliott.
1. The Circuit Court of theUnite'l States was not competent to
inquire into the acts of the Court of the state of Kentucky; before
which the proceedings relative to the acknowledgment were
entertained. This is not done by the Courts of King's Bench,
of England, in reference to the proceedings of Ecclesiastical
Courts, or Courts of Common Pleas. The Circuit Court could
look at nothing but the record from the State Court, and could
not inquire in what mode the certificate had been made. But,
if this could be done, there were materials enough for the purpose.
The examination of the feme, was made according to the
provisions of the law, but.it was not at the time fully stated
by.the clerk so to have been made. He took the ackowledgnent, and the Court, subsequently, did no more than fill up the
record of what had been actually done, from the testimony of
the facts before them. This was done by virtue of the powers
which Courts have exercised, to correct their records at a subsequent period. 4 A1fId. 371. 12 Mad. 384. 2 &ark. 1132.
1156. 1182. 3 Buht. 114. 8 Coke, 169. Pamer, 509. Rolle's
Rep. 272. 2 Saund. 289. Raymond, 39. 209. Sidf. 70. Salkeld,
50. P. L. 1S. ibid. 50. Ld. Ray. 695. Cr. Eliz. 435. 459. 677. 2
Rolls R1p. 471. Hob. 327. Rolle's .Abridg. 209, 210. 2 Jones,
212. Gwl. Bacon, 197, note. Pigot's Recov. 218. Dougla.ss, 134.
1 H. Blk. 258. Barnes, 21.
2, N. 1fork T. R. 139. 4 Ien. .
Ium. 498. 3 Call. 2ql. 233. 8 Hen. ,- Alicnz. 449.

'S3

SUPREME COURT.
(Elliott et a]. vs. Peirsol et al.)

t. The clerk of the-Court, who took the acknowledgment, acted as the ministerial agent of the Court,'and he acts as if he
was in Court. This act was, therefore, in the power of the
Court. But if the clerk had the powers of a Court in reference to taking acknowledgments of deeds, the authorities cited,
zhowing the rights of Courts to correct errdrs, applyto his
•acts; and if such were i3 poers, the interferene of the
Court, in this case, was surplusage.
Mr. Wickliffe, for the defendants in error.1. The assumption of tl,e power to correct his errors by ihe
clerk of the Court, was a nullity iii Kentucky, according to the
established laws and *decisions there,- Hard. Rqp. 171, 172.
The laws of Kentucky, relative to taking acknowledgments of
deeds, have undergone many modificationa.; but the law and
practice now is, for the clerks to take.the acknowledgment and
the privy examination of afeme covert; and in this they act independent of 'the Courts, and not under their, authority; norhave the Judges of the Courts any power to interfere with
their acts or proceedings, in relation to 'such acknowledgment.* The authorities cited to show the right and practice of By the kindness of.Mr. Wickliefie, the Reporterhas been furnished with
the followin abstract of the present laws of Kentucky, relatve to theex-

ecution of conveyances by non-residents, and by husband and wife; Laws
'of Kentucky, chap. 278, 1796.
If the party who shall sign and seal any such writing, reside not in this
commonwealth, the acknowledgment. by such party, or the proof by the
number of witicssds requisite t,of the sealing and delivering of the writting before any Court of law, or the mayor, or other chief magistrate of any
city, town, or corporation of the'county in A'ichthe party shall dwell, certiffed by such Court, or mayor, or chief magistrate, in the manner such acts
are usually authenticated by them, and ofired to the'_doper Court, to be
recorded within ight months after the sealing and delivering, shall be as
effectual, as if it had been in the last mentioned Court.
Conveyances by htusband and wife, how to be executed, &c.
Sec 4. When' husband and. wife' shall have sealed and delivered a writ-'
ing, purportig. to be a'conveyance of any estate or interest, if she apped
in-Court, and being examined privily, and apart from her husband, by one of
he justices thereof, shall declare-to him that she did freely and willingly
seal and deliver the said writing, "'io be then shown and explained to her,"
and wishes not to retract it, and shall, before the said Court, acknowledge
the said writing, again showp toher, to'be her act'; or if befbre two justices
of the peace of that county in which she dwelleth, if her dwelling be inthe
United States of America, who may be-empowered by commission, to bd
issued by the clerk of the Court wherein the writiig ought to be recorded,
to examine her privily, and take her acknowledgment: the wife being examined privily, and apart from her husband, by those commissioners, shall
declare that she willingly signed and seaed.the said--writing, "to be then.'
shown and explained to her by them," and eonsenteth that it may be recorded; and the-said commissioners shall return 'with the said commission,
and thereunto annexed, a certificate under their hands and seals, of such
j Three witnesses-by a previou section of the law.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

333

Elliott et al. vs. Pehrsol et al.) Courts to correct errors or omissions, do not apply. As to the
laws of Kentucky, relative to this subject, there was cited the
Act of Assembly of 1795.' 1 Littd, 595. The Circuit Court
did not, in this case, inquire how the acts or proceedings of
the Court of Kentucky had been performed, but whether the
laws of the state, on the subject matter, had been complied
with.
2: The facts of the case, as stated in the record, show that
the testimony of Mrs. Ann Braugh was not liable to the objection that it was given post litem nwtam ; as to the operation
of evidence, post liten nmortem, he cited, Cowtper, 594. 14 East,
331. 3 Starkie, 1105.
Mr. Justice TRMInLE delivered the opinion of the Court.This is an action of ejectment, brought in the Circuit Court
for the district of Kentucky, by the lessors of the defendant
in error, and against the plaintiffs in error, who were defendants in the Court below.
The lessors of the-plaintiff, in that Court, claimed the land in
controversy, as heirs at law of Sarah G. Elliott,formerly Sarah
G. Peart, deceased; who, in her lifetime, had intermarriedwith
the defendant, James Elliott.. The defendants claimed by virtue
of a deed of conveyance, made by James Elliott and Sarah G.
Elliott his wife, in her lifetime, to Benjamin Elliott, and a deed
reconveying the land from Benjamin Elliott to James Elliott
On the trial of the general issue between the parties, the defendants took a bill of exceptions to certain opinions of the Court,
in overruling motions made by the defendants for instructions,
Sc., and in granting instructions to the jury, moved by the
privy examination by them, and of such declaration made, and'consentyield.ed by her; in either case, the said writing acknowledged, also, bythe husband, or proved by witnesses, to be his act, and recorded, together with
such privy examination and acknowledgment before the Court, or together
with such commission and certificate, shall not only be sufficient to convey
or release any right of dower, thereby intended to be conveyed or released,
but be as effectual for every other purpose, as if she were an unmarried
woman.
If out of the United States.
Sec. 5. If the dwelling orthe wife be not in the United States of America, the commission to examine her privily, and take her acknowledgment,
shall be directed to any two judges or justices of the peace ef any Court
of law, or to the mayor, or other chief magistrate of any city, town, or corporation, of the county in which the said wife shall dwell, and may be executed by them in the same manner as a commission directed to two justices
in the United States of America ; and the certificate of the judges or justices of such Court, or the certificate of such mayor, or chief magistrate,
authenticated in -the form, and with the solemnity by them used in other
acts, shall be as effectuaf as the like certificate of the Justices in the United
States of America.

34

SUPREME COURT.

(Elliott et al. vs. Peirsol et al.)
plaintit, in the progress of the trial; and, a verdict and judg'.
ment having been rendered against the defendants, they have
brought the case before this Court by writ of error.
The bill of exceptions states, " that upon the trial of this case,
the plaintiffs read as evidence, a patent from the commonwealth
to Griffin Peart, dated the 1st of May 1781, covering the land
in controversy, (which patent is made part of the bili of exceptions,) and sundry depositions, taken nnd filed in the cause, (also
made part of the bill of exceptions;) and proved that, upon a
division of the land granted to Griffin Peart, by said patent, the
part in contest was allotted to the late Sarah G. Elliott, formerly Sarah G. Peart, and that she was seised thereof in severalty :
that the said Sarah G. Elliott died, before the institution of this
suit, about the year 1822, without issue; and that the defendants were in possession of the land, allotted to her as aforesaid.
And after the plaintiffs had closed their evidence, touching their
derivation of title, the .defendants, as they had reserved the
rigllt to do, moved the Court to instruct the jury, that the evidence adduced on the part of the plaintiffs, was insufficient to
prove title in the lessors of the plaintiffs, and that the same ought
to be'rejected; but the Court refused so to instruct, or to exclude the evidence; and, on the contrary, instructed the jury
that the said evidence, if believed ',y them, was primafacie evidence, that the lessors were the legal heirs of the patentee,
Griffin Peart, &c. To which opinion of the Court, in all its
parts, the defendants except.
The defendants then gave in evidence, the deed of conveyance from Sarah G. Elliott and her husband, to Benjamin Elliott,
(dated the 12th day of June 1813,) for the land in contest, and
the deed from Benjamin Elliott, to the said 7mes, together with
all the endorsements upon, and authenticatibns annexed to the
first mentioned -deed; which endorsements and authentications
are in the following words and figures, to wit:-"I Acknowledged by James Elliott & Sarah G. Elliott. September I 1th, 1813.
Attest-J. M'KXiNNY, JR. Clerk."
"Woodford County, sct.
September 11th, 1813.
This deed, from James Elliott, and Sarah G. Elliott his wife,
to Benjamin Elliott, was this day produced before me, and acknowledged by said James and Sarah to be their act and deedi
and the same is duly recorded.
JOHN M'KINNEY, JR. C. W. C. C.'
'WWoodford County, sct.
November County Court, 1823.
"On motion of Benjamin Elliott, by his attorney, and it appearing to the satisfaction of the Cburt, by the endorsement on
the deed from James Elliott and wife, to him, under date of
12th June 1813, and by parol proof, that said deed was acknow-

JANUARY TERM, -1828.
(Elliott et al. vs. Peirsol et al.)
]edged in due torm of law by Sa'ah G. Elliott, before the clerk
of this Court, on the I1th of September 1818 ; but that the certificate thereof was defectively made out: It is ordered, that
the said certificate be amended to conform to the provisions of
.the law in such cases, and that said deed and,.certificate, as
amended, be again recorded. Whereupon said certificate was
directed to be amended, so as to read as follows, to wit:-Woodford County, set.
8eptember lih, 1818.
This day, the within named James Elliott, and Sarah G. Elliott his wife, appeared before me, the clerk of the Court of
tlhe county aforesaid, and acknowledged the within indeniure,
to be their act and deed: and the said Sarah being first examined, privily and apart from her husband, did declare, that
she freely and willingly sealed the said writing, which was then
shown and explained to her by me, and wished not to retract
it, but consented that it should be recorded. The said deed,
order of Court, and certificate, as directed to be amended, are
all duly reorded in my office.
Attest---:.JoH M'KiNNEY, JR. C. W. C. C."
It was proved by John M'Kinuey, a witness examined on the
part of the defendants, that the endorsement made on' the back
of the deed, from Elliott and 'wife, to Benjamin Elliott, in these
words, to wit:u-'Acknowledged by James Elliott and Sarah
G. Elliott. September 11th, 1813.
Attest-J. M'KiNYE,, Clerk;"
Was' in the hand writing of the said clerk of the Woodford
County Court, and was the minute made by him, at the time
said deed was acknowledged; and it was also proved, that the
certificate of. the acknowledgment and recording of the said
deed, endorsed on said deed, was, at some subsequent time,
written and drawn out by a deputy of said clerk, from the said
minute. And the clerk depoped, that although he had not a
particular recollection of all the facts, that he remembered the
circumstance of James Elliott and his wife coming to his office
to acknowledge said deed: that he knew what his duty required in such cases, and that the acknowledgment and privy examination, and an explanation of the instrument to her, was requisite, in order to its being recorded as to her. And that he
did not doubt'he had done his duty in this instance, and that
said deed had been acknowledged by Mrs. Elliott, in all respects. Other parol evidence was given, conducing to prove,
that, in point of fAct, the said deed from Elliott and his wife,
%was regularly acknowledged by the wife before the clerk, upon
his privy examination of her.
The said M'Kinney, upon cross-examination, further proved,
that after the said deed and certificate of the acknowledgment

ISS6

SUPREME COURT.

(Elliott et al. w. Peh'sol et al.)
thereof, had been recorded, and in the lifetime of Mrs. Elliott;
he had, at the instance of her counsel, made out a true copy of
the record of said deed, and certificate of the acknowledgment
thereof, by Elliott and wife, as they were then upon the record;
which copy, the plaintiff gave ievidence: that after the death
of Mrs. Elliott, application was made to him, by the counsel of"
the defendants, to alter the certificate of the acknowledgment
of the deed frnm Elliott and wife, to Benjamin Elliott, so as to
state her privy examination; but which he declined. It was
also proved, that the deed had remained in the possession ot
the clerk, from the time of its first acknowledgment, till after
the certificate ordered by the County Court, was umade upon it.
After the defendants had closed the 'evidence on their side,
which was as abbve stated; the Court, upon the motion of the
plaintiffs' counsel, instructed the jury, that the parol evidence
which had been given on the part of the defendants, conducing
to show a privy examination of Mrs. Elliott, was incompetent
for that purpose: that a privy examination and.acknowledgment of aftme covert, so- as to pass or convey her estate, could
not, legally, be proved by parol testimony, but by record; and
that although they might believe, from the parol evidence, that,
said deed had been acknowledged by Mrs. Elliott, in all due
form of law, upon her privy examination, and all proper explanations given to her; yet, it constituted no defence to the action, unless such privy examination had been duly certified and
recorded.
The Court further instructed the jury, that the certificate of
the acknowledgment of said deed, by Elliott and wife; and the
after certificate, by order of the County Court, of her privy examination- were not sufficient, in law, to pags her estate; because, the first shows nb privy examination, and the County
Court had no jurisdiction to order the second to be made. To
all which opinions, and decision of- the Court, the defendants
except, &c.
It is argued, by the learned counsel in this Court, that the
motion of the defendants to exclude the evidence adduced on
the part of the plaintiffs, or to instruct the jury that it was insufficient to prove title in the lessors of the plaintiff, ought to
have been granted. The argument in this Court has not put
the question on the ground, that taking the whole of the plaintiff's evidence together, touching the derivation of the title of
the lessors of the plaintiff, it is insufficient to .,deduce the title
to them down from the patentee, though Sarah S.'Elliott, who
was seised thereof in severalty.
We have however reviewed the evidence, with a view to that
question, and are satisfied it is sufficient for that purpose.
The ground of argument relied on here, is, that a part of the

JANUA'IY TERM. 18ag.

SS7

(Elliott et a].
vs. Peirsol et al.)
evidence was incompetent and inadmissible, It is said, that so
nmuch of the depositions as detail Mrs. Elliott's conversations,
concerning the 'manner of her acknowledgment of the deed,
and so much of Mrs. Braughs deposition; as speaks of the letter of her deceased husband, and the letter itself, made part of
her deposition were incompetent, and ought to have been rejected; and that the reservation of the right to move to reject
the evidence, admitted in the bill of exceptions, shows that the
defendants' counsel, had the right to insist upon the rejection
of any part of the evidencef as incompetent. The argument
admits of several answers deemed satisfactory. Mrs. Elliott's
tonversation, detailed in some of the depositions- in relation to
the defendant's deed, can by no fair construction be brought
within the motion. It related not to the title of the lessors of
the plaintiff, but to supposed defects in the title of the defendants: and to use the language of the bill of exceptions, it was.
the plaintiff's evidence '1 touching the derivation of the title of
the lessors of the plaintiff," which the defendants moved to exclude. Besidesf at that stage of the case; the defendants had
not introduced the-deed; and when we come to consider" the
defendants' title, after the deed Was introduced, it will appear,
that Mrs. Elliott's declarations could in no manner have influenced the verdict, and were therefore harmless. We are not
prepared to admit, that Mrs. Braugh's letter, on the subject of'
the family pedigree, proved by her evidence, and made part of'
her deposition, was not competent evidence to be left to the
jury upon a question of pedigree or heirship. She was an
aged member of the family, and traces back the pedigree, and
several branches of the family, for about seventy years.
The rule of evidence, that in questions of pedigree the declarations of aged and deceased members of the family may
be proved, and giveii in evidence, has not been controverted.
But it is argued, that this rule-is qualified by this exception
that declarations, made post litem motam, cannot be given in
evidence; and-it is insisted this case comes within the excelption; for although no suit had been commenced, yet a controversy had arisen, or was expected to arise.
We doubt the application of the exception to this case. A
controversy had arisen, or was expected to arise, between the
heirs of Mrs. Elliott, and the defendants, concerning the validity of the deed of Mrs. Elliott, made while she was a fern
covert. But it does not appear, that any controversy had arisen, or was expected to arise, about who were her heirs. The
Hs mota, if it existed, was'not, who were heirs, but, whether
Mrs; Elliott's deed made a good title against the heirs, whoever they might be. It is not necessary, however, to- give any
Voa. I.
U U.

_S38

SUPREME ,COURT.

J
(Elliott et al. vs. Peirsol et al.)

positive opinion on this point, as other grounds exist upon
which the.motion was rightfully overruled.
It is conceded that the defendants' coufisel had a, right to
move the Court below to exclude any part of the plaintiff's evidence, which he might choose to desigiate as incompetent; but
it is not admitted that -he exercised that right.

It does not ap.

'Pear, from the bill of exceptions, that he designated any particular piece or part of the evidence, as objectionable, and moved
the Court to exclude it. But on the contrary, resting his case
upon the assumption, that the whole evidence of the plaintiffs,
taken together,. was either incompetent, or insufficient, he moved ihe Court either to exclude, the whole, or to instruct the
jury that the whole was insufficient to prove title in the les-

sors of the plaintiff. This could not be done, on the ground
.of incompetency, unless thke whole was incompetent, which is
not pretended; the Court was not bound to do more, than respond to the motion, in the terms in which it was made. Courts
of justice are not obliged to modify the propositions submitted by counsel, soas to make them fit the case. . If they do not
fit, that is enough to authorize their rejection. We have already said, the eyidence, taken all together, was sufficient tq
prove title in the lessors of the plaintiff. If any part of it was
incomplete, the Court might, on a general motion to exclude
the whole, have excluded such parts; but the Court was not
obliged to do so. There is therefore no error in the decision
of the Circuit Court, overruling the motion of the defendants;
nor in the instructions given to the jury,'upon that motion.
We now proceed to an examination of the questions arising
out of the insructions given to the jury, on the motion of the
plaintiffs, in relation to the deed of James Elliott and Sarah G.
Elliott his-wife, to Benjamin Elliott; set up by the defendants
in their defence.
The general question involved in the first instruction, is, can
thke privy examination, and acknowledgment of a deed, by a
fteme covert so as to pass or convey her estate, be legally proved by parol testimony? We holdthat they cannot.
By the principles of the common law, amarried woman can.
in general, do no act to bind her; she is said to be sub potestate
virt, and subject to his vill and contiol Her acts are not like
those of infants, and some other disabled persons, voidable
only; but are, in general, absolutely void ab initio.
In Virginia and Kentucky, the solemn modes of conveyance
by fine and common recovery, have never been in .common
use;, and in those states, the capacity.o afeme covert to convey
her estate by deed, is the creature of statute law; and to make
her deed effectual, the forns and solemnities, pirescribed by the
statutes, must be pursued.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

3S9

(Efliott et al. vs. Peinsol et al.)

The Virginia statute of 1748, ch. 1st, after making prorisions
to enablefemes coverts to convey their estates by deed, upon trcknowledgment and privy examination, according to prescribed
forms; in the 7th section, has these words-" Whereas, it has
ilways been adjudged, that where any deed has been acknowledged by a feme covert' and no record made of her privy examination, such deed is not binding upon thefeme and her heirs."
The 8th section enacts and declares, "That the law herein,
shall always be held according to the said judgments,: and shall
never hereafter be questioned, &c."
This law was adopted by Kentucky at her separation from
Virginia, and is understood never to have been repealed.
The 4th section of the Kentucky statute of 1V"96, (see 1 Litt.
Law; p. 569,) provides for the privy examination and acknowledgment of iemes covert in open Court, and where they cannot
conveniently attend; authorizes a commission to issue to two justices to take and certify the acknowledgment and privy examination; and declares, that "1In either case, the said writing acknowledged by the husband, and proved by witnesses to be his
act, and recorded, together with such privy examination and acknowledgment, 8tc., shall not only be sufficient to convey or release any right of dower, &tc.,but be as effectual for evety other
purpose, as if she were an unmarried woman."
The 1st section of this Act, authorizes clerks of the County
Courts, General Court, and Court of Appeals, to take, in their
offices, the acknowledgment or proof of the execution of deeds,
and to record them, upon acknowledgments or proofs, so taken
by themselves; but did not authorize them to take the acknowledgment and privy examination offene coverts.
But, by a subsequent statute, clerks are authorized to take, in
their offices, the "acknowledgment of all deeds, according to
law." And the Act of 1810, (4 Litt. KyI. Laws,165,) which-authorizes the clerk of one county to take and certify the acknowledgment of a deed to be recorded by the clerk of allother county where the land lies, &c., declares, that " if the due acknowledgment, or privy examination of the wife, &c., shall have
been taken, &c. by the clerk receiving the acknowledgment of
the deed, &c., and that being duly certified with the d&ed, and
-recorded,shall'transfer such wife's estate, &c." as fully, as if the
examination had been made by the Court, or the.clerk in whose
office the deed shall be recorded.
It is by construction of these Iast recited laws, that the clerks
are heid, in Kentucky,-to be authorized to take the acknowledgments and privyexaminations offemescoverts,in all cases ofdeeds
made by tfhem and their husband§.
The Kentucky statutes, above recited, show clearly, that the
legislature of that state has never lost sight of the principle de-

SUPREME COURT.
(Elliott et al. vs. Peirsol et al.)

elared by ihe Virginia statute of 1748: "That when aniy deed
has been acknowledged, by a feme covert, and no record made
of her privy examination, such deed is not binding upon the
feme and her heirs.'
What the lawyrequires to be done, and appear of record, can
only be done and made to appear by the record itself, or an exemplification of the record. It is perfectly immaterial whetier
there be an acknowledgment, or privy examination in ihct or
not, if there be no record made of the privy examination; for,
by the express provisions of the law, it is not the fact of privy
examination merely, but the recording of the fat, which makes
the. deed effectual Co' pass the estate of afeme covert.- Itis now only necessary to state the second ixstruction given
to the jury on'the plaintiffs' motion,; to manifest its entire correctness. It was, "that the first certificate of the acknowledgment and recording of the deed of Elliott and wife, was not
sufficienf in law to pass her estate; beca-se, it showed no privy
examination of thefeme."
The last instruction given by the Court to the jury presents
a question of more difficulty. It is, "that the after certificate,
made by order of the County Court, of her privy examination,
is insufficient, in law, to pass her estate; because the County
Court had no jurisdiction or authority to order the said second
certificateio be made."
It is argued, that the Circuit Court of the United States had
no 4uthority to question the jurisdiction of the County Court
of Woodford county;. and that its procedings were conclusive
.upon-the matter, Whether erroneous or not.
We agree, that if the County Court had jurisdiction, its decision would be conclusive. But we cannot yield an assent to
the proposition, that the jurisdiction of the County Court could
not be questioned, when its proceedings were brought, collaterally, before the Circuit Court. We know nothing in the organization of thd Circuit Courts of the Union, which can contradistinguish them from other Courts, in this respect.
Where a Court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every
question which occurs in the cause; and whether its decision
be correft or otherwise, its jr &ment, until reversed, is regarded as binding in every other Court. But, if it act without
authority, its iudgments and orders ar- regarded as nullities.
They are not voidable, but simply void; and form no bar to a
recovery sought, even prior to a reversal, in opposition to them.
They constitute no justification; and all persons concerned in
executing such judgments or sentences, are considered, in law,
as trespassers.
This distinction runs through all the cases on the subject;
and it proves, that the jurisdiction of any Court exercising vix

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

.941

(ElUott et a]. vs.Persol et al.)
thority over a subject, may be inquired into in every Court,
when the proceedings of the former are relied on and brought
'before the latter by the party claiming the -benefit of such proceedings.
It is well known that the jurisdiction and authority of the
County Courts -of Kentucky are derived wholly, from the statute law of th'e state. In argtUment, we were.referred to-no statute which was supposed, either in terms, or by fair construction, to confer upon the County Court any supervising or controlling power over the acts of the clerk, in taking, in his office;
the acknowledgment of a deed, or in recording it, upon an acknowledgment there -taken by him. We have sought in yain
for such a provision, and it isbelieved none such exists. No'
such supervising and controlling power can result to the Court,
from the general relations which.exist between a Court and its
clerk; for in this case, -the statutes confer upon the clerk, in his
office, a distinct, independent, personal authority, to be exercised by him upon his own judgment and responsibility. We
think, therefore, with the Circuit Court that the County Court
had no jurisdiction or authority to order the after certificate of
Mrs. Elliott's privy examinmtion to be made and recorded.
But the argument, which seemed to be relied on most confidently by the learned counsel, is, that the order of-the County
Court may be disregarded; and the amendment considered cs
an amendfuent made by the clerk, of his own authority, and
that the clerk was authorized to amnend his own certificate, and
record, at any time.
It would be difficult to maintain that. the second certificate,
or amendment as it is called, could rightfully be regarded. as.
the clerk's own act, independent of the order of the County
Court; it appearing that he refused to do the act until the order was-made.. But be-it so.
Had the clerk authority to alter the record of his certificate
of the acknowledgment of the.deed, at any time after the record
was made? We are of opinion he had not.
We are of opinion he acted ministerially, and not judicially,
in the matter. Until his certificate of the'acknowledgment of
Elliott and wife was recorded, it was, in its nature, but an
act inpais, and alterable at the pleasure of the officer. But the
authority of the clerk to make and record a certificate of.the
acknowledgfent of the deed, wasfunts of/cio, as soon as the
record was made. By the exertion of his authority, the authority itself became exhausted. The act had become matter of
record, fixed, permanent, and unalterable; and the remaining
powefs and duty of the clerk were only to keep, and preserve
ihe xecord safely.
If a clerk may. after a deed. together with the acknowledg-

342

SUPREME COURT.

(Elliott et al. vs. Peirsol et al.)
ment or probate thereof have been committed to record, under
colour of amendment, add any thing to the record of the acknowledgment, we can see no just reason why he may not also
subtract from it.
The doctrine that a clerk may, at any time, without limitation alter the record of the acknowledgment of a deed, made
in his office, would be, in practice, of very dangerous consequence to the land titles of-the county, and cannot receive the
sanction of this Court.
It is the opinion of this Court, that there is no error in the
judgment and proceedings of the Circuit Court, and the same
are affirmed, with costs.

