JANUARY TERM;' 182..,

THFnnmisE OF JOHN A. ELMORE, PLAINTiFF ]I EnROR, VS. WILLiAM A. GRYEs2 A.ND JOHN J. BEATIE, DEFEND-"
ANTS iN ERROR.

Doi ON

The Courts of the United States hve no authority to -rder a peremptory
nonsuit, against the will of the plaintifF, on the trial 6f a cause. before a
jury. The plainfiff might agree to abonsuit, but if he do not so'choose,
the Court cannot compel him to submit to it. 14T1}
When the state.of thevecord did not show a judgment of nonsuit to have
been entered, although the bill of exceptions states the fact, Jhe plaintiff may apply for a cedioari to bring up a perfect record, or dismisn

th iwrit of-epror, and proceed & novo., {472}

AN action of ejectment was instituted in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Georgia, foa the recovery of 287k acres of land, in which the plaintifs. claimed title
at.follows: A grant from the state of Georgia toSamuel Alexander: and a deed. from John Cessna, styling himself '. Sherift of Greene county in the state of Georgia " purporting to
convey to Buckner Harris, by virtue of a sale under an execution against Herod G*ibbs, "two hundred and eighty-seven and
a half acres of land in said county, on Little Beaver Dain, on the
waters of Richland creeki and bounded on Academy lands, and
'land belonging to William.Alexander, which land was formerly the property of Samuel Alexander :" a deed.from Buckner
Harris to Ezekiel E. Park, for a tract of land "1containing
two hundred and eighty-seven and a half acres, in the-county
of Greene, and state of Georgia, on the Iittle-leaver Dam of
Richland.creek; being an equal half of the double bounty of
land granted to Samuel Alexander, adjoining Academy lands."
The plaintiff then introduced a withess, who testified that
"Ezekiel Park was in possession of a tract of land lying in
Greene county, usually called Park's old mill tract, on Beaver
am cree, for about twenty years." "He then produced a'
deed from Ezekiel E. Park to John A. Elmore, for a tract of
land " in the county of Greene, and state of Georgia, on the
Little Beaver Dam creek, or fork of Richland creek, being
one equal half of a double bounty tract, originally granted to
Samuel Alexander, adjoining lands belonging to the Uniwrsity; being the same originally sold and conveyed to Herod
Gibbs, by the grantee, on the 14ih of Mprch, 1790." He then
exhibited a deposition of the county surveyor, stating"th it he
had niade a re-survey of the premises in dispute, agreeably to
a plot annexed to his deposition, which corresponded in its outlines with that annexed to the original grant, "completely

SUPREME COURT.
(Doe on the demise of Elmore vs. Grymes et al.)
,6overing the premises in dispute;" which he designated on the
The plaintiff then called a witness, who testified that W.
T
A. Grymes was in possession of the premises at the commencement of the action, and then closed his testimony.
The defendant's counsel, thereupon, moved for a nonsuit, on
the following grounds:
1st. Be cause the plaintiff had failed to make out his title by
the documentary evidence on which he rested his case.
S3d. Because there was no sufficient evidence of possession,
to give a title, under and by force of the statute of limitations
of Georgia.
The Circuit Court ordered a nonsuit to be entered, against
the consent of the plaintiff; and a writ of error was prosecuted
by him, and the cause brought before this Court.
Upon the judgment of nonsuit, the defendants in error
claimed to maintain before the CourtThat -the Circuit Court had power to order a nonsuit,
without the assent of the plaintiff.
The case was argued by Mr. Wild and Mr. M'Duffie for the
error, and by Mr. Berrien for the defendant.
plaintiff inMr. Berrien.-Th doctrine laid down in the books of practice, and adopted
in some of the state Courts, s not supported by any express
decision in the Courts of Great Britain. That proposition is,
that a plaintiff, on the bare allegations of his declaration, without a tittle of proof, is entitled-to demand the verdict of a jury
in his cause.
Any modification of this proposition admits the power, and
objects only to the mode of its exercise. An examination of the
adjudged cases in England will show that they do not warrant
the position. Watkins vs. Towers, 2 T. R. 275, was a motior
to enter nonsuit after verdict.
Santler vs. Heard, was avercdict takeni subject to the opinion.
of the Court, whether plaintiff ought not to have been nonsuited. 2 BL Rep. 1031. 29a.1 669.
Macbeth vs. Haldermand, 1 7. R. 179. The point was flot
made, on a motion for a new trial. On reporting the fact, Buller
J. said, that on the. trial, he had thought the plaintiff ought to
be nonsuited; but his counsel appearing, when plaintiff was
called,.he had left the question to the jury. It is said-that the
plaintiff would be deprived of his writ of error to this Court.
This is not so.
sinaIjudgments spoken 6f in the judicial Act, are meant to
be contradistinguished from interlocutory judgments.
Any judgment which isfinalin the suit, though not final, as

, J.ANUAIY TFRM, 1828.

471

(Doe on the demise of Elmore vs. Grymes et al.)
between the parties, with the exceptions mentioned in the Act,
may be brought here by writ of error.
A judgment of nonsuit is such a judgment, and may be the
foundation of a writ of error. The defendant is entitled to
judgment and execution for costs. The suit is finally disposed
of. It is a final judgment in a civil-action. In England, error
]ifs on such a judgment. Box vs. Bennet, I H. BL 42. Kempland vs. Macauley, 4 T. R: 436. Evans vs. Phillips, 4 Wi7eat.
7S, does not -contradict this. The grohnd of that decision kva%
that the plaintiff had assented to the noniuit. Why may not'
the errors of the Court below, be corrected .in this form, as '.
well as by an exception to instructions, or the refusal to give
them.
Mr. Wilde and Mr. M'Duffie, for the plaintiff in error.1. It has always been considered that a nonsuit cannot be or"
dered without the consent of the plaintiff, who has a right to
submit his case to a jury and the Court; and the Court,'should
the jury err, may order a new trial.
In the Courts of the United States, another obligation exists
to the exercise of such a power, as the Court has"decided that
a writ of error will not lie on a judgment of nonstit; (Evans
vs. Phillips, 7S,) it not being a fiiatjudgmnta. If the Courts
below should have this power, a plaintiff maybe prevented the
opportunity of bringing his case before the highest judicial
tribunal of the.United States. If a Court, can-in any instance
order a nonsuit against the consent of the plaintiff, it may only
be when no questions of facts are involved. but the only matterbeforethe Court is a question of .law. This case exhibits facts
upon which a jury were the proper judges. The plaintiff claimed the land by possession, this, and the extent of the possession,
was exclusively forthe consideration of the jury.
The practice of the state of. Georgia as to the entry of nonsuits, has been fluctuating. The' judicial system of that state
does not comprehend an appellate Court, with exclusive final
judicial powers, but each Circuit Court has a right of granting
appeals to itself, and on such appeals a second trial takes place.
Hence, this point has been decided differentlyin different Courts,
and at different periods; and hence the practice of the Courtsof Georgia is unsettled, and as various, as it necessarily mvs
be, in the absence of a Supreme Court to regulate and determine the same.
Mr. Chief Justice MeAsRHLL delivered the opinion of the
Court.The Court has had this case under its consideration, and
is of opinion that the Circuit Court had no authority to order
a peremptory nonsuit, against the will of the plaintiff. He had

47

SUPRE ME COURT.

ODoon the demise of Elmore m. Grymes et al.)
a right by law to a trial by a jury-,' and to have had the case
submitted to them., He might agree to a nonsuit;- but if hp did
not so choose, the Court could not-compel him. to submit to it.
But the state of the record does not enable this Court to render a final'judgment,because the record is defective, in not showing a judgment of nonsuit entered in ihe Circuit Court. Although the bill of exceptions states that fact yet the record
does not contain the judgment itself.
The plaintiff may therefore apply for a certiorari, to bring
up a perfect record, or dismiss the present 'writ of error and
proceed anew; as his counsel may think best for the interest of
their client.'
Mr. Justice JoHNo dissenftienteThe only question of anj importance in this cause, is, whether
g Circuit Court can, in any case, order, a plaintiff to be nonsuited. Iordered the plaintiff.below'to bencnsuited, because the
evidence was so inadequate to maintain his suit;. bui had the
jury found for him, I should have set aside the -verdict, and ordered a new trial. The practice of the Court from Which this'
cause comes up, is this; when the plaintiff .h's closed his evidencei the defendant is-at liberty to 1iove fdr a nonsuit, or proceed with his testimony.- -If 'he itroduces evidence, it is too
late to move for a nonsuit; and the question ali'ays to be examined is, whether utpon tle evidence introduced by the plaintif
admitting it to be true, the jury'can find a verdict for him. So
that, it is in fact, a substitute f6r. a demurrer to evidence, or for
a motion fo- instruction, that the plaintiff canno- recover, upon
the case made out by him in evidence.
Theri.e are several reasons, why I inust maintain that the
Courts.of the sixth Circuit,have a right to exercise the power
to order- a nonsuit, even agaiist'the will of the plaintiff; and
why it would be wise, in all our Ch'ctiits, tointroduce the same
practice..
. It happens untortunately for the defendant in error here, that
a majority,of the -Judges of this-Court have pursued a diffdrent
practice in their Circuits; bitt this' l mutt insist, is no ,sufficient
reasoht for jubverting, otherwise: tha by rule, the practice of
other states ih.-ich this right has bqen recognised in the ad.ministration-.of justice, coevally with the existence of their
Courts.. Such has'been the cape in-the states of which 'the sixth
Circditconsists, and the'Atts of 1789. and 1792, have adopted
into the Courts of the United States, of'thle respective Circuits,
not only the form's of process, but the "modes of proceeding,"
in'suits known to the states respectively. That this come' un.er the" denoni'ination of a'mode of proceeding, or in other
Vord , an established practice of the state composinp the sixth
Circui' apears to me incontrovertible.

JANUARY 'TERM, 1898.

47S

(Doe on the demise of Elmore tz. Gryimes et a.)

By what right then cakn this Court reverse a judgment of that
Circuit, founded in a practice t us sanctioned'by law? It does
seem to me, that the defendant beloW has a right in this judgment, vested by express 'statute law, and ought not to be put to
the expense! of this reversal. 'For what purpose is power given
to this Court 'to alter the practice of the Circuits, by such re-,
gulations as they-may deem, expedient, if such practice is no '
tobe,held legal, intil altered.by a rule of this Court?'
This Court surely does not meau to decide, that such was not
the received practce of that Circuit; this would be a decision
in the teeth of positive fact; and if 'the purport of the decision:
be, that it is an illegal practice, the immemorial practice itself,
and the Process Acts'of the United Stat~s, flrnish an express
negative, to srch a decision.
The idea seems to be, that it is a practice inconsistent with
the relatl6n in which our Circuit Courts stand to this Courtthat ours is not a 2ViPriua'system, or somed.ing to that effect.
Wht then? This Court can'alter the practice by a rule, but,
to, overturn a Jcgmeiit, that has already been rendered under
such a.practice, I must respectfully contend, approaches very
:qear to ex.postfacto legislati&fi, not a djudication; the proyince of
which is to operate only upon existing laws. But itis not a practice appropriate exclusiyeIy to a NiiPriusysteii, as-is proved
by this ' that writs of error are'sued out coitinually in England,
upbn judgfiienig, on nonsitita, (see the cases cited in"
1- .drchb.
Practice, 29-SO,).and, thou&l it.
had been, the states-Were at liberty to adopt it'into theiir actite, although the-fisi Prim sYs-'
te' be unknown to-them. That they had-qdoped.it is.coiclusive against this assumed incompatibility: And in practice it.
ubserves the purposes of'justice under our system, as effectually*as a bill of exceptions, or a demurrer to evidence; and in se•veral respects muh betfer. It saves the practitioner from the
weight of responsibilityi which often results from being compelled to elect betweern a voluntary nolnsuit, and a dmurrer to
evidence, or a bill of exceptions, which may terminate.fatally to
his cliet; and it not unfrequently'saves his client frbni the fatal
effects or'negligence an nisa 'pehension,
either of himself or
his att rney, or from surprise.
In point of convenience'and-expedition,
administratidn
On this
pinons.
twoin the
of justice, I presume there cannot be
poi~nt as far as'exemplum docat, we may cite Great Britain, Massachusetts and New-York, with some confidence, against Pennsylvania, Matyland, and'Virginia.
But, itis contended, that in England the plaintiff is not nonsuited, if' fie insists on answering whetn called. If the fact be
admitted, what then? England is not altogether absolute in
dictating to the Courts of the'United States, and if those of the
VoL. L
so

SUPREME COURT.
(Doe on the demise of Elnore vs. Grymes et al)

states of the sixth Circuit, have asserted some independence in
their rules of practice on'this subject, I presume their right was
unquestionable to,do so.
But I want no other authority than the Courts of Great Britain, to juitify the practice of the sixth Circuit, in this behalf.
From the earliest period we find the English Courts, in the exercise of this power, and whoever will examine the cases collected
inMr. Morgan's Treatise on the doctrine of new trials, (3 vol.Essays,) will find, what a very wide range has been taken by those
Courts in the -application of that practice.. Nor have the more
modern cases manifested any inclination to retrace their steps.
Its salutary effects are iniversally felt, and perhaps contribute
as largely as any other' cause to the rapid progress of their
Courts in disposing of their dockets. If there exists any case
prior to that of Macbeth vs. Haldeman, 1 Torm R. 172, in which
the right of the plaintiff to refuse to be nonsuited was recognised, I cannot recollect it; since in that case it would seem
that in ordinary cases the right is recognised. But there is
abundlant proof that the British Courts do assert the power to
control the exercise of that right,.by the plaintiff, when they
think proper. In the cases of change of venue, on motion of
plaintiffs, S BAk. 1031, the ri6Wt is disputed, on the assumed
ground thatihe-unddrtakes to prove some material fact. Now,
where caiibe the objection to applying the same reason to every
case that goes to a jury? Does not a plaintiff, in fact, undertake
-the same thing whenever he troubles a Court with his suit, and
has a jury sworn to try his cause upon y4-dence? he isno longei
subjected to amercement if he fails to recover, and the right to
nonsuit him, where he fails to produce evidence that will justify
a verdict, is but a reasonable substitute for.the absolute penalty
to which he was once subjected.
But it is contended that an absurdity is produced, and an
acknowledged right violated. -Yet the alternative exhibits a
"more direct and bbvious absurdity,'since In the case of Macbeth
vs. Haldeman, and in every case of the kind, the Court asserts
a positive control over the consciences of the jury, by telling
.them, "they are bound to find for the defendant." And the
greater absurdity must henceforward be incurred, of' swearing
a jury in a causes and requiring a verdict at the caprice of a
plaintiff, who produces not a tittle of evidence to maintainhis
issue. Nor is any right of the plaintiff taken from him, if his
rights be regarded in their just extent. He cannot claim a verdict of the jury if he'does not produce evidence to sustain it,
and it is only in that case that he is precluded from submitting
his' case to their consciences. When we cofisider what were
the ancient penaltiep for a false verdict, before they were superseded by the infroduction of new trials; it must appear just

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

4-Z5

(Doe on the demise of Eimoie vs. Grymes et ui.)
aud reasonable, that the plaintiff should rather be exposed to

the necessity of bringing a new suit, or moving for a new
trial, than that the jury should be subjected to attaint, at his
will. ' And on the subject of fiction, and legal absurdity, it is
certainly too late at this day for our Courts of Justice to be
very fastidious, on a consideration which has been so thoroughly.
set at nought, by the action of ejectment, fine ad recovery, and
sundry other, matters of the kind; to which they have resorted
for the purposes of substantial justice and public convenience.
I must submit, I suppose, but I cannot do it without protesting against the right of forcing upon my Circuit, the practice
of other Circuits in this mode,
By a rule of this Court, it is, unquestionably, in the power of
the Court to do it. But until then, I can never know what is
the practice of my own Circuit; until I come here to learn it.

