SUPREME COURT.

A-mES J,M'LANAtAN, WILHELUs BOGART, AND JOHN JOSEPH
CoIRON, PL;AINTIFFS IN ElROR V. THE UNIVERSAL INSOGRANte CoMPANY, DEFENDANTS IN ERLROR.
Insurance. It is, doubtless, within the province of a Court, in the exercise
of its discrdtion, to sum up the facts inthe case to the jury ; and submit
them, with the inferences of law deducible therefrom, to the free judgment of the jury. But, care must be taken, in all such cases, to separate
the law from the facts, and to leave the latter in unequivocal terms to the
jury, as theirtrue and peculiar province. 11821
An application for a new trial, on motion after ve dict, a,Iresses itself to the
sound discretion of the Court; and if, upon the whole case, the verdict
is substantially right, no new trial will be granted, although there may
have been some mistakes committed on the trial. The application is not'
a matter of absolute right, but rests in the judgment of the Court, and is
'to be granted only in furtherance of justice. On a writ of error, bringing the proceedings on the trial, by bill of exceptions, to the cognizance
of the Appellate Court, 'the directions of the Court below, must then
stand or fall, upon their own intrinsic propriety, as matters of law. 1183.
Every ship must, at the commencement of the voyage insured, possess all
the qualities of seaworthiness, and be navigated by a competent master
and crew. {183}
Seaworthiness in port, or lying in the offing, may be one thing; and seaworthiness for a whole voyage, quite another. {184}
A policy on a ship, "aL and from a port," will attach; although the ship be,
at the time, undergoing extensive repairs, in port-so as, in. a general
gense, for the purposes of the whole voyage, to be utterly unseaworthy.
{184}
W at is a competent crew for the voyage-At what time such crew should
be ou board-What is proper pilot ground-What is the course and
usage of trade, in relation to the master and crew being on board, when
the ship breaks ground,'for the voyage-are questions of fact dependent upon nautical testimony, and exclusively within the province of the
jury. 11841
The contract of insurance, is one of mutual good faithi and the principles
which govern it, are those of an enlightened moral policy. The underwriter must be prestmed to act upon the belief, that the party procuring
insurance, is not, at the time, in powession of any fact material to the
risk, which he does not disclose; and that no known loss had occurred,
vhich, .byreasonable diligence, might have been communicated to him.
1185}
if a party, knowing that his agent is about to procure insurance for him,
withholds information, for the purposes of-misleading the underwriter; it
is a fraud, and vitiates the insurance. {185}
Wh'ere a party orders insurance, and afterwards receives intelligence material tfo
the risk, or has knowledge of a loss, he ought to communicate it
to the agent, by due and reasonable diligence, to be judged under all the
circumstances of each particular case, if it can he communicated; for the
purpose of countermanding the order, or laying the circumstances before-the underwriter. {185}
What constitutes due and reasonable diligence, is a qvestion of fact for the
j.a. 1186}
,
_

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

171

(M'Lanalian et al. vs. The Universal Insurance Company.)
rhe accidental concealment of the time of the sailing of a vessel, would
not "prejudice the insurance, unless material to the risk; if fraudulently
intended, it might not mislead; and, whether fraudulent or not, is matter of fact for the jury. 1188}
The material ingredients of a question of the importance of concealing the
time of a vessel's sailing, are mixed up of nautical skill, information, and
experience; and are, in no sense, judicially cognizable, as matters of
law. It seems, that this question does not cease to be a question of fact,
when the vessel is to sail from a port abroad. 1188}
Little stress ought to be laid upon general expressions falling-from
Judges, in the course of trials. Where the facts are not disputed1 the
Judge often suggests, in a strong and pointed manner, his opinion -a to
their nateriality and importance, and his leading opinion of the conclusion to which the facts oght to conduct the jur t . This ought not to he
deemed an intentional withdrawal of the facts, or the inferences dedci.
ble therefiom, from the cogfizance of theury, but father.as an expres.
sioof opinion addressed to the discretion of counsel, whether it woul
be worth .while to proceed further in
the
cause. And the like expression
in summing up any cause to the jury susthbe understood by them merely as a strong exposition of the gcts,not designed todverrule thtir verdict, but to assist them in forming it. And there-is the less objection to
tHis course in the English practice; bepause, if the summing up has had
an undue influence, the mistake is put right by a new trial, upon an application to the discretion of the whole Court. This is
familiarly
h
known, that it needs only to be stated, to he at once adritted. [190
The question of materiality of the ti
e he sailin of the ship to the
risk, is a question for the july, under the direction of the Cort,, as i
other cases. The Court may aid the judgment of the jury, by an exposition of the nature, hbearing, and pressure of the facts; but it has no arht
d to supersede the exercise of that judgment, and to direct an absolute verdict as upon contested matter of fact, resolving itself into a mere point
of law. 191}
-

THE action, in the Circutit Court for the district of Mary.
land,
was instituted by the
flaintihffs in error,,
a solicy of
insurance, in the usual f'orm ; and a verdict wasonrendered
for
the
vefendats,
under the opinion of the Couita upon the first
of nine exceptions, taken by the plaintiffs.
The material facts in the case were.-Insurance was .effected
in Baltimore, in the name of Thomas Tenant, to the amount

of 10,000 dollars, on the

brig Creole, for a voyage fi'om Havre
de Grace to New-Orleans, with liberty t, touch and trade at
Havana. The poolicy 'war dalt upoon the 22d day "of.Deember
1823. The insurance was made, for the plaintiffs, the sole owners of the vessel, under the following circumstances-"
- John Joseph Coiron, one of the plaintiffs, while at Havre de
Grace, on the 19th of October 1823, addressed to Mr. John
Stoney, of Charleston? the following letter:Havre, October 19th 1823.
Mr. John Stoney, CharlestonDFAR Sm:-Please to have ir

red, for my account, fo'r the

SUPREVIE COURT.
(M'Lanahan et al. vs. The Universal Insurance Company.)
account and risk of whom it may concern, ten thousand dollars on the brig Creole, of New-Orleans, Captain Jacob Goodfich, for New-Orleans, t6uching at the Havana. The brig and
boats in the best order, having a round house on deck, containing fourteen births; the crew are seventeen in all. We intend
sailing to-morrow. I have with me my family, consisting of
two children and two nephews. The wind having shipped
round suddenly, I'write this in haste; my first will be more
satisfactory to you, for particulars. The new Georgia upland
cotton, twenty sous; rice, thirty francs.
Your devoted servant and friend,
JOHN JOSEPH COIROX..

And also another letter, as follows:Duplicate.

Havre, October 2Oth 18n2s.

Mr. John Stoney, CharlestonDEAR SIR :--I have yesterday requested you to have insured,
on my account, for the account of whom it may concern, ten
thousand dollars, on the brig Creole, of New-Orleans, Captain
Jacob Goodrich, from this port back to New-Orleans, touching
at the Havana, the vessel and boats in the best order, having a
roof on deck, containing fourteen births, manned by seventeen
hands. You know the vessel-I have only to add, that I have
made a thousand dollars' worth more of repairs and improvements on her. She is now a very convenient packet. I will feel
gratified to hear from you, at the Havana. I intend but making a very short stay there, having two children and two
nephews with me, and being anxious to meet Mrs. C., I cannot
give yolt any favourable information respecting business, in
this part of Europe.
With the pleasing expectation of being soon near you, I remain, respectfully, dear Sir, your devoted servant and friend,
JOHN JosEPH Com0X.

This letter was enclosed in another, addressed by Quartier
and Drogy, of Havre, to Mr. Stoneyi dated 2Sd of October
1823, and stamped with the post mark of Savannah, Decembr
10th; which, with the endorsements thereon, were as follows:P. Hesperus.
Havre, October
23d, 182S3.
CharlestonEsq.,
John Stoney,
SIR :-We are indebted to our mutual friend, Mr. J. J. Coiron, from whom we beg leave, to hand you the enclosed letter,
for an introduction to your respectable firm, and should feel

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

173

(MLanaan et al. w. The Universal Insurance Company.)
partipularly happy, if it became the means of an active correspondence between us; the produce of your country, and
particularly cotton, being always of an easy and frequently advantageous sale in this part of France, on account of the vicinity o? the metropolis, and the principal manufacturing towns,
which gives Havre a decided preference over the other commercial ports of France. Georgia short staple, sells at 27 c.
29, and the stock on hand not considerable, few arrivals being expected, until the new crop, which can hardly reach our
market before the month of December. It would, however,
not be prudent to speculate on the present prices, as they will
be likely to give way, on arrival of the new crop, and occasion
considerable losses. Our opinion is, that purchases ought to be
made at from 11 to 13d, and not to exceed 14d, to offer a benefit
here.
Should you feel disposed to enter into a connexion of business with us, and honour us with an answer, we could, if you
are so inclined, commence with an adventure of a hundred bales
of cotton, for mutual account, and successively enlarge the speculation, if the result prove satisfactory. As to the reimbursement for our share, we authorize you to draw on us, at Paris,
at sixty or ninety days sight, if the exchange be advantageous;
else we may either make you remittance, or open you'a credit
at Mew-York. In case it should suit you to speculate for your
own account, we beg to offer you the facility of an anticipation
of half the amount of the consignments you may please to intrust to our care, on receipt of the bills of lading and order
for insurance.. We are also ready to offer the same facilities
on shipments which you may sway to us, for account ot other
houses, and to grant you a share in the commission on the _tme.
Would oblige us to render us the following service, viz :to procure acceptance of the enclosed bill of 420 dollars, sixty
days 'sight, on Barbet & Esnard, of your city; and,* when accepted, to hand the same to Mr. Sam Simon, at Augusta, &c.
Believe us, with due regard, Sir, your most obedient servants,

A.
•7oln Stoney,

QUARTIER

& DROGY..

sq., Cwarleton, S. C.

No. 9, 182S.-QuARTIER Sc DROGY, Havre, Oct. 23.-Re-

ceived 13th December.
Hesperus.
The, letter of the 19th October, was despatched, in a single
form, from Havre,. on the 20th, by a vessel, sailing, on that day,
for Philadelphia;- and was received by Mr. Stoney, on the 15th
December--a duplicate-of the letter of the 20th, was despatched on, the 23d of October, by the Hesperus, via Savannah.

SUPREME COURT.
.(WULahan eta. og. The Universal Insurance Company.)
On the 12th of December, 1823, Mr. Stoney applied to the Fire
and Marine Insurance Company, and to the Union Insurance
Company in Charleston, for insurance on the Creole, and
both offices refused the risk, upon theground that. they
ought to have received account of the arrival of the brig before that time. The offers were withdrawn, and upon the 13th
.of December, he wrote to Thomas Tenant Esqr. at Baltimore, ihe following letter. The letter was post marked at
Charleston, on the day of its date; and was received, in Baltimore, by Mr. Tenant, on Saturday, the 20th December, in due
course of mail.
Charleston, 13th December, 1823..
Tao a s TENANrT isqr. Baltimore:
DFan SiR-I received, the day before yesterday, a letter from
John Joseph Coiron, via Savannah, (extract annexed,) in which
he requests me to have insurance effected on the Creole, on his account, and others, valued at ten thousand dollars, 910,000. The
two offices here are afraid of their own shadow, and will not underwrite her. I must, therefore, request the favour of your having the insurance done, agreeable to his order annexed, and
I will be answerable to'you for the premium, &c. Good upland cotton 14 cents, and declining. I have only to confirm my
respects of the 3d inst. which I hope you have received before
this. If the insurance cannot be done with you, please write to
New-York, to have the same'effected.
Expecting the pleasure of hearing from you soon, I am, very
respectfully,
Your most obedient servant,
JOHN- STONEY.
(Enclosed.)
Duplicate.
Havre,20th of October, 1823.
Mb. JoHN STONEY, Charleston:
DEAYL SIR-I have ye terday requested you to have insured,
on my account, for th - account of whom it may concern, ten
thousand dollars on the 1$ig Creole, of New-Orleans Captain
Jacob Goodrich, from this port, back to New-Orleans, touching at the Havana. The vessel and boats in the best order,
having a roof on deck, round house, containing 14 births, manned by 17 hands; you know the vessel. I have only to add,
that I have made one thousand dollars' worth more of repairs
and improvements on her. She is, now, a very convenient
packet.
Extract Thomas Tenant, Esqr., of Baltimore, Maryland.
No. 1. John Stoney, Charleston, 13th Dec. 1823, and 20th,
Dec. [mail,] order for insurance.

JANUARY TERM, 11828.

175

(M'1anahan et al. w.The Univeral nsurance'Coinpauy.)
On the 22d of December, 1823, Mr. Tenant applied to the
defendants, the Universal Insurance Company, for insurance,
by the following written order for the same; and, upon the
contract thus made, the policy was on the same day filled up
and executed. "I want insurance, for account whom it may
concern, on the brig Creole, Jacob Goodrich master, at and
from Havre de, Grace to New-Orleans, with liberty to touch
and trade at Havana, against all risks-an'd in case of loss,
the same to bepaid to me. The vessel valued, independent of
freight, to this sum-10,000,dollars.
The Creole was completely rebuilt and coppered at CharlestonS. C. in last summer, at great expense, and is now considered
a remarkably fine vessel. She was; and. I presume still is, owned by M'Lanahan and Bogart$ and' J. J.Coiron. .The .latter
gentleman was on board her, and I presume is returning in
her to New-Orleans:. He writes from Havre,. under date of
20th October, but does not saywhen the brig would sail. She
sails under a certificate of ownership.' What will be the premium on the above risk?
.THoxAs TENANT

ByR iCHA D.G. CoX.
Baltimore, 22d Deer. 182S,,
8 per cent.
Accepted. T. Tenant.
On the day the insurance was so made, Mr.: -Tenant had
made application, in the same terms,.to the Maryland, Chesapeake, and Baltimore Insurance Companies) all of which declined the risk. The Phoenix Insurance Company, upon application, declined, on the ground that the time of sailing was not
ascertained; and the Patapsco Company were willing to take
5000 dollars, at 5 per cent.-premium. I he insurane effected
by Mr. Tenant, was the only.one made upon the Creole.
No information relative to the loss of the Creole was received in Charleston, nor was her loss known there, until the
15th of December; on which day the brig Panther arrived at
Charleston, and about 2, o'clock, Mr. Stoney was informed
thereof.
On the 19tn of October, 1823,- by entries in the log book of the
Crqole, at Hayre, it was shown that "-the brig was getting ready
for sea on the 20th; at 9 A. M., the pilot came on board, and
warped out into the basin, made sail, hove to in the offing,
for' the captain, owner, and passengers and crew." At 10 A.
M. they came off, and the pilot left the vessel. Tuesday,-the
21st October, 1823, the following entry was made in the log
book:-

176

SUPREME COURT.
(W'Lanahan et al. s. The Universal Insurance Company.)

TUESDAY,
COURSEs. WiNDS.

H.
-V

OCTOBER 21,. 1823.

7"

2 7,
A-7

5 :-I
-7this
-7
.S.7J
''

10 71

1 7thisimportant

Commences with fine breezes and pleasant

weather. This day contains 12 hours5 ending

at noon. At the comnmencement of the civil
account, that at midnight, Cape De Here boi'e
per compass 8. S. E. distant five leagues.
iThe detentior of Captain on shore, being in

brig, having been carried off by the formr
captain, Leonard Fash, who was dismissed. It
was, therefore, necessary for the present captain to go through.the requisite formalities, before the American consul, to prove the want of

document.

'The protest of. Captain'Goodrich, master of the Creole,
stated that the Creole sailed from the pori of Havre de Grace,
oii the 21st of October 1823, bound for Havana in Cuba; tHat
on the 2§th of Decemberthe brig was wrecked, and lost on
Sugar-Key, while on the voyage; and himself, .the passengers
afnd crew, were picked-p, and some of them carried to New-Orleans, by the ship Trgmhull; which ship arrived on the 17th of
December 4823. The second mate of the Creole, and five passdngers, among Vhom were Mr. Coiron; and his family, left.the
-ship Trumbull off the'Havana, in the small boat of the Creole,
and were landed there-upon the same.day. It also appeared,
from the evidence on.the part of the defendants, that the 8ctiooner Chase, Captain-Ricliard S. Pinckney, master, sailed from Havana for Charleston from the, 1st to the third of December
1823,, and arrived at Charleston on the 12th of the same
month. Captain Pinckney stated that he did not hear- in H~vana, any. report of thi logs of:the Creole. The schooner Eliza
and Polly sailed from Havana.for Charleston, three hours before the' Chase, and Captai* Pinckney left Havaea to go on
board the Chase, three'hours after the sailing of the Eliza and
Polly.
"The following letter from Lemuel Taylor to-.Mr. Tenant,
was also-admitted as evidence:
Aavre, June 28th 1824.
nAR 'Sin.--Your favour of the 5th instant was reDE
ceived yeterday; and, in reply, I have only, to say, ihat I left
Havana on the 3d of December last, i the schoondr Cbase,

JANUARY

7ERM, 1828.

1-77

(MOLankban et al. t. The Universal Insurance Company.)
captain Pinckney, for Charleston; and, that, some days previous to my departure from I-, avana, I see a person land on the
ywharf, a crowd seemed to etround him, and I see ser'era1 taking him by the hand; I asked who he was; his name wasmentioned, but.I do not now recollect it, and that he wa passenger
in the brig Creole, from Havre, for E avana, and lost on some
of the Keys; and that he was, an-old trader to Havana, from
France, and had a large adventure on board. His name, and
time of landing, can •be ascertained at Havana, if wanted. I
never heard the case mentioned on the passage, or in Charleston; and I am sure I, never Thought or heard of it after leaving
Havana, till one day, while in Baltim~re, Mr. Parker, speaking
of losses, mentioned "the Creole; and I observed I heard of her
loss, while in.Havana; he then observed they should have to
refuse to pay the loss, and that it wonld :be one of the most
painful disputes he ever had gs President, .on account of the
reat respectability of •yourself and Mr. Stoney, and mentioned something about dates, From that time, until I received
your letter yesterday, I never heard or thought .of the case.
And I again repeat, that I am sure I did!not hear the, loss mentioned on the passage, or in Charleston, and that I see the passenger land as mentioned ; and that his name and date can be
fhrnished from Havana, if waifted.
I am, dear Sir, very sincerely, your friend and servant,
LEMUEL TAYLOR.

It was also proved, that the n~orthtirn mail closed in Charleston at ten o'clock in the morning, and generally arrived jn 33a1timore in seven days, exclusive of the day the letter was mailed, but,-never at an earlier day; though sometisnesin eight or
nine days ;--that it generally arrived from 'half past one to two
o'clock, and the letters of Mr. Tenant wer6 never delivered by
the penny post to him, until after thre o'clock, on the day of
the arrival of the mail. The hours of business of the insurance
companies in Baltimore, terminated, daily, at two o'clock.
The fullest testimony was given of the high character of MYI'.
Stoney and Col. Tenant,' to' negative the possibility of a presumption of intentional fraud, 6 r concealment, on the part of
either of those gentemen, relative to the loss of the Creole.
The plaintifl on the trial, tendered nine exceptions to the
opinions" of the Circuit Court, all of which are stated on the
record; but, as in the opinion of this Court,no notice is taken
of any. other than the first exception ; .and the Court justified
the refusal of the Judges of the Circuit Court to sign the bill
of exceptions to any other. than the first, it is deemed necessary
to insert the first exception only. That exception is ,as follows :
-" The defendants, by their counsel, prayed the Court to inVoL. I.
Z

178

SUPREME COURT.

(Manahan et a). a. The Universal Insurance Company.)
!truct-the jury, that,. uipon the whole evidence in the case, the
plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, and the verdict of the jury ought to be for the Aefendantsi which instruction and opi•nion the Court accordingly gave; xnd thereupon the plaintiffs,
by their counsel, prayed leave to except, and that the Court
wouldpsign and seal this, their bill of exceptions, which is accordingly done, this 10th day of January 1826.

" G. DuvALL,
"1ELIAs GLENN,"

(Seal.)
(Seal.)

The cause was brought by writ of error to this Court; and
was argued by Mr. Tawny, and Mr. onathan Meredith, for
the plaintiffs in errok; an '. by the Attorney General of the
United States, and Mr. OgL "n, for the defendants.
For the plaintiffs.-Two general grounds of defence were
taken lat tjue trial below.1. A oncealment of material circumstances in effecting the
insuranice.
2. "Want of proper diligence, in not countermanding the order for insurance, after the loss'had oceurred.
,ds to concealment.
Four instances of concealment were charged.1. 'The time of the sailing of tire brig from. lavre.
2. An offer for insurance was made at Charleston and its

rejection.
"3. The arrival-of, the two vessels front Havana at Charleston.
4. The description of the brig in Coiron's letter of 20th
October, "she is now a vey convenient packet."
.s to negligence.
The want of due diligence, in not countermanding the insurance, was charged.1. By eoiron, in not communicating the loss to Stoney,
while off Havana.
2. By Stoney, in not revoking the order to, Tenant, on hearing of the loss on tilhe 15th of December.
The general principle as to the doctrine of concealment is,
that the assured is bouhld to make a full disclosure.
The exceptions are-i. As to facts which the insurer ought to
know. 9. What he takes on himself the kuowledge of. 3.
Which he wzives being informed of 4. Which are not material, as not'varyrng the contra.ct: Carter vs. Bochme, 2 Burr,
Rep.
1. As to the charge of concealment of the time of sailing; Coiron could only state his expectation on this subject.
Coiron was not bound to state t mere expectation of the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

179

(WLanaban et al. v8. The Universal Insurance Company.)
time of sailing; because,' if he lad, it would not havy bound
him as a representation. PAM. on Ins. 83, and cases cited.
There is no general rule on the. subject. It depends, like
every other species of concealment, on its materiality to the
risk, and it was not material here. Foley vs. Moline, 5 Taunt.
430. 1 Camp. 116. Fort vs. Lte, 3 Taunt. 381. 1 Marshall,
483, 484. Mackay vs. Rhinelander, 1 John Cas. 408. 1 Sergeant 4- Lowber, 144.
The usage in Baltimore, is to calculate the sailing on the day
of the last advices in port; -vhich the order in this case stated
to be .20th of October. The duty of disclosure is confined to
facts, not to the conclusion of .other men from the same facts.
PHill 100. Bell vs. Bell, 2 Camp. 479. 1 Parke,(7th edit.) 292.
Cited, 2 Dane's M9br. 121.
The usage in baltimore corresponds with the legal principle; and that usage may be applied to this case. But if the
laws were btherwise, still the question would be, was the alleged concealment material, or was it not, in this case?
2. Concealment, as to arrival of vessels from Havana.
The answers are--1. There is 'no proof that Mr. Stoney
knew of their arrival. 2. Immaterial, because when they left
Havana, the Creole could not be considered missing. Littledale
vs. Dixon, 1 eW. Rep. 151.
3. Concealment, as to the Creole's being a packet:1st. It is not necessary to describe .the particular construction of the vessel offered for insurance. Haywood "vs. Rogers,

4 East, 590.
2d. General ground-not countermanding the insurance.
The rule of law is, that if, after an order for insurance, a loss
happens, it is the duty of the assured to countermand the order, where there is probable ground to believe, that, by the exercise of veasonable diligence, it will arrive in time. See Fitzherbert vs. Mather, 1 Term Rep. 12. Watson vs. Delafield, 2
Cans' New-York T. Rep. 224.
Coiron might fairly have presumed, that one of the three
letters, ordering insurance, might have reached Mr. Stoney,
long before the loss, particularly-the one via Savannah.
The questions in this cause.are all unmixed questions of fact,
and they were improperly decided by the Court below.
The language of the instruction is peremptory, not by way
of advice as to the facts, and was considered as binding on
the jury. The question of materiality as to concealment, is always a question exclusively for the jury. 1 Park, (7th edit.)
289. 301. 314. 317. Kull vs. Cooper, 14 Bast,479. 1 t'Paul 4-.
Sdw. 16. Littlesdale vs. Dixon, 1 New Rep. 151. Mackay vs.
Rhinelander, -1 Tohn. VGwes, 408. Williams vs. Delafield, 2

180

SUPREME COURT.

(M'Lanahan et al. vs. The Universal Insmance Company.)
Caines, 329. Firemair Insurance Company vs. Walden, 12
John. 513, and. the. cases cited in the opinions of Ch. Kent.
A question of due diligence is also a question of fact, 1
Stark. E. 412, &c.; and see notes in Moore, vs. Morgan, Cowp.
479. Wake .vs. Atty, 4 Taunt. 493. Bateman vs. Joseph, 2
Camp. 461.. Reese vs. Rigby, 4 Barn. 8..Ad. 202. Watson vs,
D elatield, 2 Caines, 9.24.
In reply to the argument of the counsel of the defendants, it
was said "the question of seaworthiness, is one of fact, and
should have been submitted to the jury. As to the casual absence of'the Captain, Phill.118.
-The brief' delay occasioned by the want of a paper, 'was not
material'; and was not a deviation to avoid the policy. Phil. on
Ans. 191; and cases cited. The Court have the right to decide
upon tile'law of the case, but the facts are exclusively for the
jury. Nor is it admitted that the Court may advise upon
matters of fat, in this case. The Court assumed, to" deterrnine the facts, and took them entir ly from the jury.
The.pra tic.e under the 'laws of l.arylan4, is in conformity
to the 'principles,. claimed by the plaintiffs, and the Court are
prohibited by law from advising upon the facts. This course
of proceeding has not been found inconvenient, nor Las it been
disapproved of by the people - 'and it may therefore be considered judicious.
Mr. Wirt, and Mr. Ogden, for the defendants.
The facts of the case justified the opinion of the Court, which
is the subject of-the first exception the whole of the case rests
ujon that exception.
Was die -vessel,seaworthy, at the time of her departure from
Havre? The .log book shows, that she got under weigh before the master and crew were on board.. At the time of the
sailing of the vessel insured, she must be properly manned for
the voyage-she must be seaworthy When the voyage commences. Phill.on Ins. 117. Cases cited, 3 Bur. 1419. 7 Term
.R. 705. 1 T. Rep. 343, 186.
2d, There was such a deviation as to discharge the underwriters.
Delay for documents a deviation. 1 P4lH.18L 1 'Marsh.499.
Upon the first exception, two question present themielves.1. Did,this Court err in giving the instruction?
2. Did the Court invade'the privileges of the jury?
The time of the sailing of the Creole, was mot communicated
by Coiron; nor did he write, as he ought, and could have done, on
his arrival at Havana, after the loss of the brig; and his omission to do this, aioided the policy. PhAL 96., 2 Cain, 224. 1
Johns. Rei.150. 2Jo4ns.Rep.526. 9 Johns.Rep. 55. Mr. St9ney

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

181

(M'Liahan et al. d. The Universal Insurance Co6mpanv.)
should have inquired, at Charleston, of those who arrived
from Havana, for information about the Creole.
The Courts of the United States, are not bound by "he recent law of Maryland, in reference to the power of Courts.to
advise or instruct the jury upon facts; 'the law continues unaffected by the statute. What is concealment, is now become
a question of law. Marshall, 467. In all cases, when a vessel insured is to sail from abroad, the time of sialing'is material.Upon authorities, this was a case in which the':Court hadc
a right to say the insured could not.recbver. Pifil. on I. 468.
1 New Rep. 4. Marsh. 470. M'Andrew vs. Bell, 70. 1 Bep. 371,
407. P il. 104.
- It is objected, that the Court took upon'themselves to decide
the materiality of the fact; and that this, by the law of insurance, is exclusively for the jury.
This is to say, the Court can give no opinion or instruftion"
on the materiality of the facts.
This authority is frequently exercised. 6 'ranch 274,, 389. 13
Johns. Rep. 334. 8 Mass. Rep. 8S36. Questions of fact, on which
the law was to be settled, have been taken fr6m the jurv. What
is notice of non-payment of a bill of exchinge, is no longer a
question of fact. So questions of.abandonment. 6,Cranch, 38.
Breaking-up of a voyage, has become a question of law, "or
it may be considered in the chrysalis state, part. grub'and part
butterfly." 6 Cranch, 71.
The point, now to -be settled by this Court, is a question of
political jurisprudence; and the Court is called upon, first, to
decide and establish a'rule for the proceedings of the Courts
of the United States; and to say how far these Courts can interfere in questions of fact.
Is the inquiry one which cannot be touched, because the
barrier iskstablished, "that the law is for the Court, and the
fact is for the jury?"
In England, the same principles prevail, and yet the Courts
have broken down this barrier.
It is expedient that CQu'ts should thus interfere-while it isentirely conceded that the preservation of the tial by jury, in
criminal.iaes is essential; in civil cases,,what would be the
trial by jury without the interference of C.ourts, and "if the
law was left to the shifting pands of jury.jurisprudence?" It
would be" a world without a sun;"--like chaos before the comrxand "Let there be-light !'"
Mr. Justice STonY delivered the opinion of the Colurt This is a writ of error to'the Circuit Court of the district of
Maryland. The original actionwas brought by the plaintiffs i
error against the defendants, upon a policy of-insurance under-

SUPREME COURT.

18

al. va. The Universal Insurance Company.)
whereby "they caused Thomas Tethe
defendants,
,gritten by
nant, for whom it may concern, to'be insured, lost or not lost, at
and from Havre de Grace to New-Orleans, with liblerty to touch
and trade at Havana ;" ten thousand dollars upon brig Creole
and "ippurtenances. The declaration averred the interest, in
the plaintiffs, and a total loss by the perils of the seas. The
defendants pleaded the general issue; and upon the trial, after
th6 whole evidence on both sides had been given in, the Court,
upon the prayer of the defendants' counsel, instructed the jury,
"'that upon the whole evidence in the ca8e," as stated; the plairitiffs are not enfitled to recover, arid the verdict of the jury,
"ought to be for the defendants."
Nine different instructions
were then prayed for on be'alf of the plaintiffs, which were all
refused-by the Court, upon the ground .that the opinion already
given, disposed of the whole ca'use upon its merits. If that
-opinion was correct, this refusal was entirely justifiable; for the
Court was under no obligation to discuss or decide other points,
when the plaintiffs' case was already shown to possess a fatal
defect.
The general questiona, then, before this Court, is upon the
propriety of the instruction so given to .the jury.
A suggestion has been thrown -out at, the bar, -that this instruction was'not intended to be positive and absolute, but
merely advisory to the jury; that it was not meant to take
a:way the right of the jury to decide freely on the facts; but
merely to offer for their consideration-those views, which the
Court-had arri ed at, and which it might at all times properly
suggest to the jury. It is, doubtless, within the province of a
Court, in the exercise of its discretion, to sum up the facts in
the case to the jury, and submit them, with the inferences of
law. deducible therefrom, to the free judgment of the jury. But
care should be taken ihall such cases, to separate the law from
the facts, and to leave the latter, in unequivocal terms, to the
jury, as their true and -pecuiar-province. We do not, howeier, understand that the present instructioa was in fact, or
was ihtended to be, merely in the nature of advice to the jury.
It is couched in the most absolute terms, and imposed an obligation upon the jury to 'find a verdict for the defendants. It
assumed there were no disputable facts or inferences, proper
for the consideration of the jury upon .the merits; and that,
upon the inquestioned facts, the plaintiffs had no legal right
o recovery. It is in this view, that it is open for the consideration of this Court; and in this view, it will now be discussed,
as it was discussed in the argument &t the bar.
Four grounds have been presented to juftify the dpinion.of the
Circuit Court; which, it is said, are apparent from the record
itself, and each of there is decisive upon the case, The first is,
(M'Lanalian'et

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

186

(MN'Lanahan et al. vs. The Universal Insurance Company.)

the unscaworthiness of the ship, at the time when she broke
ground at Havre, and commenced
lqou of the master and a sufficient
The second is, the laying off and
ter departure on the voyage, for
master to come on board; which,

the homeward voyage; by reacrew. not being then on board.
on, near the port of Havre, afseveral hours, waiting for the
it is said, was an improper de-

tention, and amounted to a deviation. The third is, the omission of Coiron to communicate to his agent, or other persons
in America, the knowledge of the loss, by the way of Havana;
so as to countermand the order of insurance, which it contended wds a fatal omission of duty. The fourth is, the omission
to mention the time of the vessel's sailing from Havre, in the
letter of the 20th October,, ordering the insurance; which,
whether fraudulent or not, was a material concealment, and
misled the underwriters in the same manner, as if there had
been a representation that the time of the sailing was uncertain.
It' is to be considered that these points donot come before
addressthis Court upon a motion for A new trial after verdict,
ing itself-to the sound discretion of the Court. - in such cases,
the whole evidence is examined with minute care, and" the inferences which a jury mightproperly draw from it, are adopted
by the Court itsei'. if, therefore, upon the.whole case, justice
has been done between the parties, and the verdict .is substantially right, no new trial will be granted, although there may
have been some mistakes committed at the trial. The reason
is, that the application is nbt matter of absolute right in the
party, but rests in the judgment of the Court, and is tb be
'granted only' when it -is in furtherance of substantial justice.
The case is far different upon a writ of error, bringing the
proceedings. at the trial, by a bill of exceptions, to the cognfzance of the Appella~te Court. The directions of the Court
must then stand or fall, upon their own intrinsic propriety, as
matlers of law.
The first and second points appear to us, in the present case,to resole themselves inti.matters of fact; and the facts are too
imperfect and, too general, to' enable'the Court to draw any
leal conclusion from them,. either as to seaworthiness or deviation. There is no doubt, that every ship must, at the conimencement of the voyage insured, possess all the qualities
of soeworthiness, and be navigated by a competent master and
crew. But how is this Court to arrive at the conclusion, that
not in that predicament at the commencethe brig Creole wNAs
ment of the present voyage? The argument aisumes, that the
ship ought not to have got undeirweigh, or proceeded into the
offing, until the master, and all the crew, necessary, not for
that act, but for the entire voyage, were on board. If the-law
were'so. we hive no means of ascertaining what crew Was ac.

184

SUPREME COURT.

(MILanahan et A. w.-The Universal Insurance Company.)
tuWally on board at the time; nor -whether the voyage was auso-

lutely intended to be commenced on that day; nor whether the
departure was merely contingent and dependent upon the master's procuring the proper ship's papers, and the breaking
ground, and standing off and on in the offing, were preparatory
steps,-only for this purpose; nor whether for such purposes
the pilot and'crew on board were not amply sufficient. But we
,are far. from being satisfied that the law has interposed any
such positive rule, as the argument supposes. Seaworthiness
i-port,.,or for temporary purposes1 such as mere change of
offing, may
position
in harb6ur,
or proceeding
out of port, or lying in the
be oe thing;
and seaworthiness
for a. whole voyage, quite another. A policy
on a ship, at atl from a port,
will attach,
although
ship
be at thesense,
time for
undergoing
exthe purposes
in port,the
so as
in a'general
tensive
repairs
of the whole voyage, to be utterly unseaworthy. What is a
competent crey for the voyage; at what time such crew should
e on
ab
what is proper pilot ground; .what is the course
and
usage
of the
trade
.4n"
relationground
to the master
crew ar
being
on
quesfor the and
voyage;
board,
when
ship
breaks
tionos of fact, depndent upon nauticaltestimony; and are incapable of being solved" by a Court, without assuming to itself
on its own skill
a jury, and judicially.relying
oof
thep ovinde
in.maritime affairs. In this. view of the point,"it is not necessary to rely on the doctrine 'of Inrd Chief .uslce Abbott, in
goes the length
which o0,)
Weir v. Aberdeen, (2.Barn. a.sene
,of asserting that if there be unseaworthiness at the conmencment ofothe voyageand the defect is curedbefore loss,
a subsequent Iwss is recoverable under the policy. This is an
important doctrine, and well worthy, of discussioni, whenever

directly in.udgmnent.
it comieslikd
atswer may be given to the point of deviation,
.The
-".

This Court cannotintend, that here fhere'was dny upnecessary
or course f.the voyage. The dedelary in the commencemei
lay, for the, want of papers, may te beed, entirely justifiable; andeindeed may have corduced 'to an earlier inception, of
the voyage, by putting the sh p. in a. situtibon to depart at a
moment's warning. The usage of trade may be generalLy,
hr at least in that
particular part, to get the shi under weigh
as in this.case, end wait in the oing, until the master is ready
to come on board---and that usage 'may be not only cbnv'enieht,
absolutely
nece'ssary, in
given
and
beneficialthetonature
all parties,
seasons.
of the but
port,
and the winds,and
cases.fom
SHow the can this Court undertake o decide,.as matter of lawo,
apparent upon the record, that any delay, admitting of such
explanaons, amounts to a deviation ?
The"next point is the omissn of Coiron to communicate

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

185

(M'Lanahan et al..w. The Universal Insurance Compar.)

Information of the loss to his agent, so as to countermand
the order for insurance. The contract'of insuran has been
said to be a contract b'errizfidei, and the priiciples which
govein it, are those of an enlightened moral policy. The underwriter must be presumed to act upon the bel ef, that the
party procuring insurance, isnot, at the time, in l5ossession of
any facts, mateyial to the risk which he does not Jeisclose; and
that
knownhave
lossbeen
had communicated
occurred, which
reasonable
diligencenomight
to by
him.
If a .party,
having secret information of a loss, procutes insurance with,
out disclosing it, it is a manifest fraud, which avoids the policy.
If, knowing that his agent is about to procure insurance, h'e
withholds ithe same information for the purposh of misleading
teunderwriter, it is no less a fraud; for under such circumstances, the maxim applies, qz~i facit per alium, facitp'er ,e.
His own knowledge in Such a case, infects the act of his
agent; in the same manner, and to the same extent, which
the knowledge of the agent himself would do. And even if
there be no intentional fraud, still the uinderwriter has a right
to a disclQsure of all ixaterial facts, whiich it was in the power
of the party to communicate by ordinary means; ,and the
omission is fatal to the insurance. The true principle deducible from the authorities on this subjectis, that where a party
orders insurance, and afterwards receives intelligence material to the risk, or has knowlecfge of.a loss; he ought"to con:
municate it to the agent, as soon aJs, with 4ue and reasonable
diligence, itcan be communicated, fo thie purpose of countermanding The order, or laying the circustas eies before theunderwriter. If he omits so to'do, aiid hy.dqe and reasonable
diligenceth 'information might have been dbmnaunicated, so
as to have- countermanded the insuirance the policy is void.
This doctrine is s~tpported by the English as welL as the ,Anmerican authorities, and patrticularl'y by Watson va'. 'Delafield, (2
1 John. A. 152.
Caine,,' A. 294. 2.John. 1?. 526;) where
most of the early cases ,ase collected, and commented.up~u ;
and it iswell summed up by Mi. 0~aillips, Ii his treatise on insurance, (p. 9g.) W6 do not go over the cases at large, because,
there i _no controversy as to the general result. The only
matter for observation is, whether the rule as to" diligence,
may not in certain cases, be somewhat more stelct, so es to
require, what in Atf'dTrew vs. Marine. Insurance Company, (9
John. H. 82,) is called "extreme diligence;" or what in Watson vs.'Delafieldl is left open for discussion, as extreme diligence; the duty of cornmunircation, where the counterand
mnay not only probab/y butpossibly arrive in season. We thinlk,
haowever, that the principle of the rule requires only due and reasonabl diligence, to be judged of under all the. circumstances of
Voy,. L
Aa

186

SUPREME COURT.

(1I'Zhanahan et a]. vs. The Universal Insurance Company.)
each particular case; and that the expressions thrown out in
the 'cases' above mentioned, were, not so much intended to
point out a stricter rule, as to intimate, that ihere might be
cases, in which a very prompt effort for communication might
be fairly deemed 'not due and reasonable diligence, as where the
loss takes place very near the port, at which the insurance is
to be made, and the means of communication,by mail ol' otherwise, are regular or numerous; or where, from the lapse of
tire, and the date of the orider for insurance, the party cannot
but feel, that. every moment's delay adds many chances in favour.of the insurance being made before knowledge of the
loss. Under such ciicumstances, in proportion as fhe delay
would properly give rise to stronger suspicion of intentional
concealment, the duty of prompt communication would naturally seem to press upon the party a more vigilant diligence.
7Khe'case of Wake v8. Atty, (4 Tauntof's R. 494,) lays down
no new rule; but merely applies the old one, to circumstances,
somewhat nice and peculiar in'their presentation.
What constitutes dtie and reasonable diligence in cases of
this nature, is principally matter of fact for the consideration
of a jury. When, indeed, all thefacts are given, and the inferences deducible therefrorii, the 'question may resolve itself
into a mere question of law. But it isin general, impossible to lay
down a fixed rul6 on the subject, from the almost infinite variety
of circumstances which may affect its application; much must
depend upon the means of coriimunication, the situation of the
parties, the knowledge of conveyances, the fair exercise of discretioni as to time, mode, and place of conveyance, the course
of trade, and nature of the voyage, and the probable chances of
the countermand being effectual. All these are matters of fit
inquiry before the jury, and must, from their very. nature, apply with very different force to different cases.
To bring. these remarks home tp the present case, tmere are
certainly circumstancest which deserve the most careful consideration of a jury upon the point of due diligence. The loss
occurred at no given distance from the port of Havana; and
if letters- had been sent ashore at that port, there: is strong
reason to believe, that they could have reached Mr. Stoney in
time for a countermand, and at all events, if the loss had been
made generally public at the Havana, the news might have
reached Baltimore before the insurance. But the record does
nbt contain facts 6nough to establish a want of reasonable diligence on the part of Mr. Cgiron. it is no where stated that
he was in a situation to make such a communication, or that
he knew of the mate and crew being landed, or that ve.els
were about to depart for the Unied States fiom Havana. Nor
isit shown, what were the meas and facilities of communica-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.-

187

(M'Lanahan'et a]. vs. The Universal Insurance Company.)
tion, in the course of trade and voyages, between that port and
the United States, regular or irregular, from which we might
deduce his knowledge of these means and facilities. Nor is it
shown, that the parties contemplated a stoppage off the Havana,
so as to put him upon diligence in writing; nor that this mode
of conveyance of news was more certain, or quicker'than
others, which might have been resorted to, in the ordinary
course of the voyage of the ship Trumbull, to New-Orleans.
We may indeed conjecture how these matters were, by general
surmise or personal information; but judicially we can know
nothing beyond what the record presents of the facts; yet, all
these circumstances must or may be material to the point of
due diligence. In their very essence, they are matters of fact,
and not conclusions of law.
The opinion, therefore, to which the learned counsel wish to
conduct us, that the policy is void, because there has been gross
negligence in not countermanding the order for insurance; Is
one, to which, upon this record, we cannot judicially.'arrive.
It would be assuming the rights and exercising the functions
of the jury upon matters not proved, or wholly indeterminate
in their-own nature. This ground for maintaining the instruction of the Circuit Court, must then be abandoned.
The next point, is the omission in the letter of the 20th October, of any mention of the time of the vessel's sailing. This
is put to the Court in a double aspect;.first, as the concealment
of a material fact, and secondly, connecting the language of the
letter with the accompanying circumstances, as a virtual repre,
sentation that the vessel was not then ready or about to sail on
the voyage.
Whether this omission iAithe letter was merely accidental,
or with design to mislead the underwriters; and whether, if so
designed, it had the effect, (which, upon the testimony in the
case, would be a matter of serious doubt,) it is not now necessary to inquire. If accidental, it would not prejudice the insurance, unless material to the risk; if fraudulently intended, it
might not in fact mislead; and whether fraudulent or not, was
matter of fact for the jury. That there was no virtual representation as to the time of sailing, seems to us conclgsively
established, by the language of the letter of Colonel Tenant,
requesting insurance.. He there says ",He (Coiron) writes
from Havre, under date of the 20th October; but does not say,
when the brig would sail." Nbw, this letter, in direct terms,
negatives any intention to represent any particular time of sailing.* It leaves the question freely open to the underwriters,
either for further inquiry, or for. any presumptions most, unfavpurable to the assured. The natural result ought to be, that
the underwriters should calculate the time of sailing as very

188

SUPREME COURT.

(W'Lanaan et al. v8. The Unilversal Insurance Company.)
near the date of the leiter, so asmto ask a premium equal to the
widest range of risk, from the intermediate lapse of time. The
underwriters had no right to presume, that the ship would sail
at some future indefinite period, and to'bind the assured to that.
presumption. -The letter told them in effect, that the assured
would bind themselves to no -representation as to the time of
sailifng; but asked forinsurance whenever the ship might sail,
be it on that day, or any future day, In this view, the point as
to representation vanishes; and the 'like consideration wcuidV
in a great measure, dispose- of that of concealment.
1 '
But the question, as'to this latter point,, has been argued at
the bar upon much more broad and comprehensive principles;
upon which it seems proper for this Court to express an opinion', especially as this case may again undergo the consideration of a jury.
It is admitted, that a concealment, to be fatal to the insurance,
must be of facts mfaterial to the risk; .and, certainly, of this-doctrine, tLere cannot at this time be any legal doubt. It is further admitted, (and so is the unequivocal language of the authorities,) that generally, the materiality of the concealment is
a question of' fact for the jury. But it is said, that there are
exceptions from the rule; and that concealment of the time of
sailing belongs to the class of exceptions, and is a question of
law for the exclusive decision of the Court. Itis necessary to
maintain this position in its full extent to extricate the present
case from its pressing difficulties; and if this shall be successfully made out, it will still remain to.be decided, whether the
facts stated in the record, are sufficient to enable the Court to
pronounce the conclusion of law.
That the time 'of sailing is often very material to the risk,
cannot be denied; that it is always so, is a proposition that will
scarcely be asserted, and certainly has never yet been successfully maintained. How far it is so, must essentially depend upon
the nature and length of the voyage, the geason of the year, the
prevalence of the winds, the conformation of the coasts i the
usages of trade as to navigation, and touching and staying at,
port, the objects of the enterprise and other circumstances, pot
litical and otherwise, which may retard or advance the general
progress of the voyage.- -The material ingredients of all such,
inquiries, are mixed- up with nautical skill, information, and
experience; and are to be ascertained, in part, upon the testimony of maritime persons, and are in no sense judicially cognizable as matter of law. The ultimate fact itself,.which is the
test of materiality, that is, whether the risk be increased so
as'to enhance .the premium; is, in many cases, an-inquiry dependeit ipon the judgment of underwriters and others, who
are conversant with the subject of insurance. In this very case,

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

189

(bMLanahan et al. m The Universal Insurance Company.)

the introduction of testimony was indispensable, to'show the
usual length of the voyage; and it was quite questionable,
whether; in a just senge, the-vessel could be deemed a missing
vessel, at the time of the insurance.' 'Upon such a point, it
would not be a matter of surprise,, if different' underwriters
should arrive at different results. In the nature'of thdinquiry,
then, there is not]-ivg to distinguish the time of sailing of the
ship, from any other fact, the representation of concealment of
which is supposed to be iiiaterial to the risk: . It must still b
resolved into the same element.
It has been said, that there is no case in which the materiality of the time of sailing has-been douhtedf where the-ship was
abroad at the time; whether this beso or not, it is-not important to ascertain, unless it could be universally affirmed, (which
we think it cannot,) that the time of sailing abroad, must always be material to the risk. If it may not always be material,
the question, whether it be so in the particular case,.is to be
decided upon its own Circumstances, Indeed,. we cannoF perceive how the place of sailing, whether from a home or foreign
port, can make any difference in the principle. 'The time of'
sailiug from a home port, may be material to the risk, and if
so, the concealment of it willevitiate the policy; but whether
material or not, opens the same inq uisition into facts, -as governs in cases of foreign ports. There may be less intridacy in
conducting it, or less difficulty in arriving qt'a proper conclu-'
sion, but it is essentially the same -'process.. The case of Fort
vs. Lee, (5 Taunt:R. 381,) did not proceed upon, the ground,
that the time of sailing from 'a home port, Was neier material
to be communicated; but, that under the -circumstances of thatC
case, the underwriter, if he wished t6 kiow
ship had sailed, ought to have mide'nquiry. It was a mere
application to the discretion of the Court to'graut a new trial,
where the plaintiff had obtained' a 'veidict, and there was no
pretence of any misdirection at the trial. In Foley vs. Moline, (5 Taunt. 145,) the Court said, that there was no pretence
for the proposition, as a general rule,' that it was necessary to
communicate to the underwriters whethelr the yessels on which
an insurance was proposed, had. eaited 'or noL . There might
be circumstances, that would render that fact highly material;
as if the ship were a-missing ship, -or out of time. So that here,
1denial of the proposition now asgerted before us, was, in the
most explicit terms," avowed and acted on.
Two nisi prius cases before Lord Mansfield, have been relied
on, to establish the supposed exieption to the 'general rule of.
cases, relative to the time of the sailing bf the ship; in which
it is argued, that his lordship undertook to decide the poiit of
.rpateriality, as ,matter of law7 and to give it as a rne to the
-whether-the

190

SUPREME COURT.

(M'L anban et A. s. The Universal Insurance Company.)
jury. It is proper to remark, that little stress ought to be laia
upon general.expressions of this sort, by Judges, in the course
of trials. Where the facts are not disputed, the Judge often suggests, in a strong and pointed manner, his opinion as to the materiality of the concealment, and his leading opinion of the
conclusion to which facts ought to conduct the jury. This
ought not to be deemed an intentional withdrawal of the facts,
or the inferences deducible therefrom, from the cognizance of
the jury; but rather as an expression of opinion addressed to
the discretion of counsel, whether it would be worth while to
proceed further in the cause. And the like expression in summing up any cause to tie jury, must be understood by them
merely as a strong exposition of the facts, not designed to overrule their verdict, but to assist them in forming it. And thera
is the less objection to this course in the English practice; because, if the summing up has had an undue influence, the mistake is put.right by a new trial, upon an application to the discretion of the whole Court. This is so familiarly known, that
it needs only to be stated, to be at once admitted. It is with
reference to these considerations, that the cases above alluded
to should be examined.
The first is Ratcliff vs. Shoobred, cited from Marsimul on Insurance, p. 290. It would certainly seem, at the first view, that
Lord Mansfield did decide that concealment was material. But
even by Mr. Marshall's report, brief as it is, it by no means
appears that the materWity was in question at the trial, but
only the efect of the concealment in avoiding the policy. The
same case is reported more fully and more accurately by Mr.
Park on Insurance, p. 290, where it is perfectly clear,.that the
point of materiality was left to .the jury. "The question is,
.(said his lordship,) whether this be one- of those cases which
isaffected by misrepresentation or concealment. If the plaintiffs concealed any material part of the information they received, it is a fraud, and the insurers are not liable ;" and the
jury found a verdict for the defendant, under this direction.
So that the point was left fully open to them.
The next case is Fillis vs. Berton, cited in Marsallon Insurance, 467, and reported also in Park on Insurance, 292. The
insurance was on a ship from Plymouth to Bristol; and it appeared, that the broker's instrllctions stated that the ship was
ready to sail on the 24th of December, when, in fact, she had
sailed on the 23d. Mr. Marshall states, that Lord Mansfield
ruled, that this was a material concealment and misrepresentation; but Mr. Park, frorn whose work the report is professedly taken, uses no such expression. His words are, Lord
Mansfield said this was a material concealment and misrepresentation; and the jury hesitating, he proceeded to expound to

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

191

(ILanahan et al. ma. The Universal Insurance Company.)

them the general principles of law on the subject of misrepresentation and concealment; and he seems to have taken it
for granted, that the misrepresentation was material, (as from
the short duration of such a voyage might naturally be infered,) and that the only point was, whether the ship had sailed or
not. The same explanation disposes of the case of M'Andrews
is. Bell, (1 Esp. Rep. 373.) Indeed, in any other view, it would.
be impossible to reconcile these decisions with the judgment
pronounced by Lord Mansfield, and other Judges, upon nore
mature deliberation, when causes have been brought before
them in bank. Take, for instance, what fell from the Court*
upon the motion for a new trial, in M'Dowell vs. Praza, (Doug.
R. .47. 260.) Shirley vs. Wilkinson, (Doug. B. 236.) Hodgson vs. Richardson, (1 B1. Rep. 989.) Littledale vs. Dixon, (4
Bos. 4-PuL 151,) and Hull vs. Cooper, (14 East, R. 79.) In
the case of the Maryland Insurance Company vs. Ruden's
Administrators, (6 Crainch, 38,) this Court expressed the opinion, that "it was well established, that the operation of any
concealment on the policy, depends on its materiality to the
risk, and that this materiality is a subject for the consideration
of a jury." That opinion was acted upon by the Court of Errors of New-York, in the case of the New-York- Fireman Insurance Company vs. Walden, (12 John R. 513;) where Mr.
Chancellor Kent, in a very elaborate judgment, reviewed the
authorities, and laid down the doctrine in a manner that merits our entire approbation.
We think, then, that the exception insisted upon at the bar,
oannot, upon principle or authority, be supported; and that the
question-of materiality of the time of the sailing of the ship to
the riskt is a question-for the jury, under the direction of the
Court, as in other cases. The Court niay aid the judgment of
the jury, by an exposition of the nature, bearing, and pressure
of the facts; but it has -no right to supersede the exercise of
that judgment, and to direct an absolute verdict as upon.a contested matter of fact, resolving itself into a mere point of law.
If, indeed, the rule were otherwise, the facts in the record are
not so full as to enable the Court to reach the desired coc.tlusion. There is not sufficient matter upon which we could positively say, that the time of sailing was, in this case, necessarily material to the risk.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court must
be reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to award
a venirefacia ne novo.
This cause came.on, &c., on consideration whereof, It is
considered by this Court, that there is error in the opifiion of
the Circuit Court, given to the jury upon the prayer of the

192

SUPREME COURT.

(M Lanahan et a]. vs. The Universal Insurance Company.)
.defendants' counsel;-that upon the whole evidence in the
case, as stated in the record, the plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover, and that the verdict of the jury ought to be for the
defendant; that opinion having withdrawn from the proper
consideration of the jury, matters of fact in controversy between the parties.
It is therefore further considered and adjudged, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this case,.be, and the
same is hereby reversed; and that the cause be remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venrefacias
de navo.

