IANUARY TERM, 1828.

LESSEE OF THOMAS SPRA-T,
CATHARINE, AND

843 '

ANDREW, WILLIAM, SARAH, JACOB,

PIERCE SPiLRTT, PLAINTIFFS
"

IN ERROR, VS.

SARAH SPRATT, DEFENDA -r ix E ROR.

The Act of the legislature of Maryland, passed 19th December, 1791, entitled "An Act concerning the territory of Columbia, and the City of
Washington," which, by the 6th section, provides for the holding of lands
by "foreigners," is an enabling act; and applies to those only who could
not take lands without the provisions of that law. It enables a "foreigner" to take in the same manner as if he were a citizen. {349}
A foreigner who becomes a citizen, is no longer a foreigner, within the
view of the Act. Thus after purdiuzmed lands, vest in him as a citizen, not
by virtue of the Act of the legislature of Maryland, but because of his
acquiring the rights of citizenship. 13491
Land in the county of Washington, and District of Columbia, purchased by
a foreigner, before naturalization, was held by him under the law of
Maryland, and might be transmitted to the relations of the purchasers,
who were foreigners; and the capacity so to transmit those lands, is given absolutely, by this Act, and is not affected by his becoming h citizen:
but passes to his heirs and relations, precisely as if he had remained a foreigner. {349}
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,
for the county of Vashington.
This was an action of ejectment, brought by the plaintiff
in error to recover several messuages, which he claimed
by virtue of several demises made to him by Thomas Spratt,
and others; the messuages all lying and being in the county or
Washington, in the District of Columbia; against Sarah Spratt,
the defendant in error, who was the widow of James Spratt,
and who was in possession of the.premises.
The following facts were agreed in the Court below:
James Spratt, before the time of the- demise laid in the.
plaintiff's declaration, died seised in fee simple, of the premises, mentioned in the said declaration; that'the lesors of the
plaintiff are the legitimate brothers and sisters of the whole
blood of the said James Spratt; and that the defendant was
the lawful wife of said James Spratt, at the time of his death,
and, as his widow, is still living." Also, that the lessors -of.
the plaintiff made a peaceable entry into the said premises,
and executed to the plaintiff the lease mentioned in the said
0 The Act of Assembly of Maryland, No. 1786, ch. 45, entitled "An
Actto direct descents," provides; "If there be no descendants or kindred
of the intestate to take the estate, th-n the same shall go to the hinband on
,ife. as the case riav be "

344

SUPREME COURT.

(Spratt et al. w. Spratt.)
declarati6n upon the premises, and that the plaintifl being in
possession of said premises by virtue of that lease, was therefore ousted by the defendant. That the said James Spratt,
and- the defendant his wife, were natives of Ireland, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and.Ireland, and came to
the United States of America in the year eighteen hundred
and twelve, and before the eighteenth day of June, in that year;
and continued to reside therein, and to cohabit as man and
wife, to the time of his death; which took place on the fourth
day of March, eighteen hundred and twenty-four. That the
said James Spratt, on the elevenih day of October, in the year
1821, was duly admitted, and naturalized as a citizen of the
United States, in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, and received a certificate of such naturalization in due
form, according to the directions and conditions of the several Acts of Congress, in 'such case provided; the said defendant then and there being his lawful wife, and as such, cohabiting with him as aforesid. That the defendant Sarah Spratt,
did not, in her own person, comply with'any of the directions
or conditions required by the said Acts of Congress, or any of
them, or become in any manlier admitted or naturalized as a
citizen of the United States, otherwise than by the admission
and naturalization of her said'husband. That the lessors of
the plaintiff are all natives of Ireland, and native born subjects
of the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain dud Ireland; that only two of them, to wit, Thomas Spratt, and
Pierce Spratt, ever came to the United States; both of whom
came to the United States, and resided therein some years before the death of James Spratt, and that nqne of them were
admitted or naturalized citizens of the United States. That
James Spratt was not in any manner seised of, or entitled to
any of the messuages or tenements in the declaration mentione, at any time be ore his said natnralization, except of the loi
No.
in Square,
which was duly bargainedl spld, and conveyed, by one Isaac S. Middleton, to the
said James Spratt, in fee simple, on the 11th day of January,
1821 ; and that all the rest and residue of the said messuages
and tenements were purchased by the said James Spratt, and
to him duly bargained, sold and conveyedin fee simple, at various
times in the year 1822 and 1823, after his said naturaliiation.
Upon this statement of facts, the question of law which
arose was as to the true construction of a statute of the state
of Maryland, entitled "An Act concerning the territory of
Columbia, and the City of Washington," passed the 19th of
December, 1791; by the 6th section of which it is provided as
follows, to wit: "That any foreigner may, by deed or will to
be hereafter iade, take and hold lauds within that part of the

JANUARY TERM, 18918.

,45

(SpMRt et al. vs. Spratt.)

said territory which lies within this state, in the same manner
as if he was a citizen of this state; and the same lands may
be conveyed by him, and transmitted to, and be inherited by
his heirs or relations,.as if he and they were citizens of this
state: Provided, that no foreigner shall, in virtue hereof, be
entitled to any further or other privilege of a'citizen."
It was contended, on the part of the plaintiff, that, according to the true constructiofi of that statute, his lessors, who were
the heirs and relations of the deceased, James Spratt, inherited
all the lands and tenements of which he died seised in fee;
and that the circumstance of James Spratt, who was aforeigner, having been naturalized before his death, could not alter
the state of their right of inheritance, whether the lands were
acquired before or after his act of naturalization.
Mr. Cox, for the plaintiff in error.
The term "foreigner," used in the law of Maryland, is not
a technical word, nor has it received a technical definition; and
in this respect, it differs from "alien." Its true signification
must therefore be ascertained by its use, and by a reference to
the statute by which it is introduced.
It is probably derived from the Latin,foris, and origo, the Spa.
nish,foranio, or the French,.forain;and always refers to birth or
origin. Alien is obtained from the Latin, alienus, and always
refers to the present time. One may cease to be an alien, but
can never cease to be a foreigner.
In this sense it is employed in various Acts of Congress, ia.
the most precise and formal writings, and in ordinary parlance.
This is the proper mode of ascertaining its meaning. 6 Bacon's
.9br. 882, Stat. 3. Referred to Acts of Congress, April 10,
1806. (Story's Laws, 100. 6.) act of 179S, ch. 49. (Ibid.!282,)
August 2, 1818, ch. 567. (ibld. 1570,) 23d Dccember, 1814..
F.d 1448-9.)

.

It has also another signification, equally distinct from alien.
Ministers from abroad are called "1foreign ministers," in the
Act of Congress relative to their compensation. The foreign
trade and commerce of the United States, are, in such terms,
the subject of legislation. When applied to persons, it is the
correlative of native. Naturalizedforeigneris also in use.
The policy of the Act was to encourage persons from abroad
to purchase and settle in the District, and an opposite construction of the Act, from that claimed by the plaintiff, would
be in opposition to the purposes of the statute.
The right of every one from abroad, to purchase and transmit" to his heirs or relations," the real estate he may acquire,
is conferred by positive statutes; it is absolute and vested, and
not to be taken away by implication and inference. As to the
VOL. I.

Xx

346

SUPREME COURT.

-

(Spratt et a]. vs. Spratt)
construction of statutes. Cited 6 Bacon's dRbr. 6. 380. 386. 388.
389.
In reply to Mr., Key and Mr. Jones, Mr. Cox argued:
In-regard to the etymology, alien is derived directly from the
Latin alienus, and has in common parlance the same signification-foreignel- is a modern word, derived either mediately or
directly fromfores and origo; whenever properly used, it refers
to the origin, and not to any present relation. One of the authorities cited, employs the expression, "€a foreigner who has
been naturalized, and has become a denizen." It would be a
solecism in language, to use the phrase "an" alien who has
been naturalized;" to be equalled only by the language employed in one of the Maryland statutes which has been referred to,
which in express terms, calls foreigners who have been naturalized, "natural born subjects."
It is admitted as a general rule, that the naturalization refers
back, and confirms a title previously acquired; but that is only
when necessary to give validity to it. It can never relate back
so as to preclude the party from appealing to the statute, as conferring upon him, originally, a valid title.
The conclusion which has been pressed, that the construction contended for would give to alien heirs, privileges, superior to those of natural born heirs, can derive no support from
the law.- They are only relieved from the disabilities incident
to their alienage. A remote alien heir is not preferred to a
nearer native heir.
It has been contended, .that inasmuch as the party, by his naturalization lost his privilege of inheriting from them, the disability should be reciprocal. Such, however, is not the legal
effect of becoming a'citizen. An individual becoming naturalized under our laws, thereby loses no privilege of a foreign subject; he acquires no privileges, but loses none formerly possessed.
The law of Maryland merely preserves and.legalizes inheritable blood, between a citizen and a foreigner; and enables the
child or heir, not naturalized, to inherit as if he were. The
construction contended for, makes it immaterial when the party"became a citizen.
The policy of the two Acts of the legislature, and the naturalization laws, are harmonious and consistent. That if the latter is to induce aliens to become citizens, that of the former
is to induce foreigners to purchase and reside in the district.
The laws for naturalization ought not to be so construed, as by
remote reference to involve as a consequence- the abrogation
and annihilation of privileges, vested in the latter as the proprietor of the land.
It is immaterial whether the privilege be considered as one

JANUARY .TERM, 1828.

S47

vs. Spratt)
(Spratt et al.

annexed to the person, or attached to the land; the person can
only have it as the proprietor of the land, and the land can only
hare it as being so held.
Mr. Key and Mr. Jones, for the defendant in error. The
construction contended for cannot be given to the Maryland statute: and 2d. If it could, it does not affect the case.
There is no real distinction between the term "foreigner" and
" alien." Their derivation is from words of the same import,
and they are used synonymously, by writers oall descriptions.
The rule of construction stated on the other side, is a correct
one, viz: looking at other laws inpari rateria,and seeing how
the teym in controversy is understood in them. This rule has
been applied on the other; side, by looking to the laws of theCongress of the United States, where the word "alien" is generally
used as opposed to "citizen."
But this does not aid us in endeavouring to understand what the Maryldnd Legislaturemeant
by the expression. For this purpose, we must look to laws
passed by the same legislature.
Look'then to the Maryland laws of naturalization. These
cases are evidently meant only to apply to such persons as the
counsel for the appellant contends, are properly called "aliens."
Such persons as are not citizens, but are to be made so. Yet
the word.used in all these laws, is the same word we find in
the statute; we are now considering it is 6foreigner."
We come at the meaning of the expression by considering
the object of the law. It is to enable foreigners to take and
hold and transmit lands, who were under' disability to do so.
WVho were they? not "foreigners," as understood on the other
side; who, thbugh born in a foreign country, might have become citizens here, and be under no disability but "1foreigners," as understood by the legislature, who had not become citizens, and who were under the disability.
In the section in controversy, the word is used in plain opposition to "citizen." The persons it intended to provide for, are
to take as if they were "citizens."
By this construction of
the word, the law is made to operate in cases where its oper4tion is necessary. The contrary construction makes it operate
where its operation is unnecessary.
2d.- What has this law to do with the case?
James Spratt becomes naturalized, becomes to all intents
and purposes an American citizen. He purchases lands-how
is he entitled to hold them ? By virtue of his citizenship. ' In
the case before the Court, it is true he purchased one of the
lots in question before his naturalization; it is well settled, that
his naturalization relates back and protects his title. It is c6ntended he takes the land not as a citizen, which he is, but as a
foreigner, which he is not. That is, a law made for a man

SUPREME COURT.
(Spratt et al. -vs. Spratt.)
who could not take without the law,'is to give right to him
who had it without the law. A citizen shall not take as a citizen, but under a law made for foreigners. If he could take by
either, (and that is all that can be asked) yt must he not be
held to take by the higher and better right ?-by the privilege
acquired by his citizenship, as the heir at law takes by descent where he is devisee? It is said this is taking away a privilege from him; what privilege? it is said-that of tr-ansmitting to his alien heirs; that by the Maryland laws, he had the
right of holding lands and so transmitting them-and that it is
taking away this right, to make him take as a citizen. But it
is plain, that if he takes and transmits the land as a foreigner,
under the Maryland law, notwithstanding his naturalization,
that he must then transmit it to his foreign heirs to the exclusion of his-own children, born here.' This must be the case
according to all decisions upon the subject, for a citizen cannot inherit to a foreigner, nor a foreigner to a citizen.
If
he holds as a foreigner; foreigners, by this Maryland law, will
inherit. Citizens, though his own children, can by no law inherit if he holds as i foreigner. Here then w'ould-he.lhe case
vf a citizen;. and his own children, though citizens, arnot to inherit to hin . Can a citizen hold, in any, other way than as a
citizen? If he is a citizen, how can he: take, why should he
take, as a freigner ?-only for the sake of these foreign elations-surey not for his own. Tley show this Maryland law,
and want him to take by that, though he chose to take by eitiz enship. 77iey show a law, saying a man may take and transmit as a foreigner-but he may also choose to take by a better
right, by citizenship-and he becomes naturalized.
They
ought to show a law, saying he rnust take and trans mit as a
foreigner.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an ejectment, brought in the Circuit Court for the
district of Columbia, sitting in the county of Washington, for
the recovery of several lots, lying in the county of Washington, of which James Spratt died seised. The lessors of the
plaintiff are aliens, the legitimate brothers and sisters of the
said James; andthe defendant, who is also an alien, is his wi-

dow; James died without issue.
James Spratt came into America in the year 1812, and became a citizen on the 11th of October, in the year 1821. He
purchased one of the lots before he became a citizen, and the
others afterwards. The title to the lots in controversy, depends
on the construction of an Act of the state of Maryland, passed
tht 19th of December 1791, entitled "An Act concerning the

JANUARY .TERM,
1828.

S49

(Spratt et al. vs. Spratt.)
territory of Columbia, and the city of Washington." The 6th
section provides, "1that any foreigner may, by deed or will, to
be hereafter made, take and hold lands within tfiat part of the
said territory which lies within this state, in the same manner
as if he was a citizen of this state; and the same lands may be
conveyed by him, and transmitted to, and be inherited by his
heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens of this state;
Provided, that no foreigner shall, in virtue hereof, be entitled
to any further, or other privilege of a citizen." The facts
were stated in a case agreed, which was substituted for a special verdict. The Circuit Court gave judgment for the defendait, to which the plaintiff has sued out a writ of error.
The plaintiff contends, that the word "foreigner,"

as fised

in the Act, designates a person born in a foreign country, and
thatsuch person does not cease to be a foreigner, by becoming
a citizen of the United States. The words of the Act, therefore, apply to him, although he becomes a citizen, and enable
him to take and transmit lands to his alien heirs or relations.
. The Court is not of this opinion. The Act is an enabling
Act, and applies to those only who could Tot take.without it.
It enables aforeigner to take " in the same manner as if he was
a citizen." This language is entirely inapplicable to a citizen.
An Act to enable a citizen to take lands "as if he wvere a
citizen," would be an absurdity too obvious to escape the notice
of the legislature. We think, then, that a foreigner who becomes a citizen is no longer a foreigner within the view of the
Act. His after purchased lands vest in him as a citizen, not
by virtue of the Act of the legislature of Maryland.
The lot which he purchased while au alien, stands on different
principheq. This lot was acquired by a foreigner, under the
Act which was passed for the purpose of enabling him to acquire it. He took and held it under the law, and could' transmit it-as prescribed by th'e law. The Act, after enabling him to
take, adds, "and the same lands may be conveyed by him, and
transmitted to, and be inherited by, his heirs or relations, as if
he and they were citizens of this state." The capacity to transmit given by the Act, extends, in terms, to all lands acquired
under the Act.
The lands taken, "may be conveyed by him, ' that is, by the
taker, "and transmitted to his heirs or relations." This poweid of transmission is not restricted to his character as a foreigner, but belongs to him, as a person taking lands under the
Act. The power of.transmitting is connected with the power
of taking, -and is co-extensive with it. This power is within
the words of the-law; and the words which confer it are not
inoperative, since they give a capacity which citizenship does
not give-the capacity of transmnitting to relations, who are

SUPREME COURT.
(Spratt et al. v8. Spratt.)

foreigners. This capacity is given, absolutely, by the Act; and
is not, we think, affected, by his becoming a citizen.
The objection urged by the defendant to this construction, is,
that it would perpetuate the title in aliens to theremotest times,
beeause it attaches the privilege to the land, and not to the perSon.
We do not think the construction exposed to this objection.
The land passes to the heirs or relations of the said James
Spratt, precisely as it would have passed had he remained a
foreigner. The capacity is not in the land, but in the person,
in relation to that land. It was in him when the land was purchased, and did not pass out of him, under the words of the
law, by his becoming a citizen.
It is the opinion of a majority of the Court, that the Circuit
Court erred, in deciding that judgment ought to be rendered
for the defendant. It ought to be reversed, and the.cause remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to enter judginent -for the plaintiff for the lot which was acquired by the
said James Spratt, while an alien, saving the widow's dower;
and that his declaration be dismissed as to the residue.
This cause came on, &c., on ronsideration whereof, It is the
opinion of this Court, that the said Circuit Court erred, in deciding that judgment ought to be rendered for the defendant,
and that the same ought to be reversed. Therefore,. it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court, in this cause, be, and the same is hereby
reversed, and that the cause be remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiff for
which was'acquired by the said James Spratt,
lot No.
while an alien, savirng the widow's dower; and that his decla.
ration -be dismissed as to the residue.

