SUPREME COURT.

THE MnHANICS BANK OF ALEXANDRIIA, APPELLANTS, vs., ADAx
Lvrw, APPELLE.
Ip 376
8h 161

A Court of Equity ought not to decree specific performance of a contract to
the letter, where, from change of circumstances, mistake or misapprehension, it would'be unconscientious so to do. The Court may so modify the

agreement, as to do justice, as far as circumstances will permit; and refuse specific execution, unless the party seeking it, will comply with such
modifications as justice requires. 13821
If a bill charges a defendant with notice of a particular fact, an answer must
be given without a special interrogatory to the matter. But, a defendant
is not bound to answer an interrogatory, not Varranted by some matter
contained in a formdr part of the bill. {383}
When a judgment debtor comes into the Court askin" protection on the
ground that he has satisfied the judgment, the door is filly open for the

Court to modify or grant the prayer, upon such conditions as justice demands. 13841

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the county of Alexandria.
The appellee filed his bill on the Chancery side of the Circuit

Court for the county of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia, against the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, to enjoin the
bank from proceeding upon a judgment at law, which the bank
had obtained against him, and upon which an execution had
issued, and he had been taken and confined.
The bill stated, tbat-the judgment which had been obtained
against the complainant was or what is called, ajpcording to
the bank phrase, "an overdraw," amounting to 951573 85; and,

that after this judgment had been obtained, he had made a deed
of trust to Thomas F. Mason, to secure the payment of his
debts, and that this judgment agaihsf him was among the first
to be paid; and also that the security provided in the deed was
ample for that object.
The bill then states, that the complainant after this deed had
been made, entered into a settlement with the bank of the various claims which they had againit him, and agreed with them

upon certain modes of payment of his debts, and among others
of the judgment of 1573 85 for the overdraw. That this Z1573
85 was to be paid out of the trust fund conveyed to Mr. Mason;
and as an evidence of it, the bill refers to the account stated in
the written settlement, in which the defendant Lynn is charged.
with the judgment for the overdraw, and credited by "the security in deed to Mason for overdraw."
The bill alleges also that in pursuance of this settlement the

complainant carried into effect the terms of the said settlement,
and that every thing du from him to the bank was satisfied,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

$77

CThe Mechanics Bank of Alexandria w. Lynn.)
except the sum of 93700, which was to be secured to the satisfaction of the bank; and that so far as respected this 93700, he
had offered secuiity, such as the committee of the bank had
considered ample, and such as the bank ought to have accepted; but which they refused to accept.
The bill then alleges, that notwithstanding this settlement and
the fulfilment of it, on the part of the complainant, the btrnk had
issued an execution againsthim upon the judgment fot' "the overdraw," and had confined him in the bounds of the jail under the
execution, and prayed he might be relieved from his imprisonment, and that the bank should look to the security provided
in the deed of trust to Mason, and to -that fund only. Upon
this bill an injunction was granted, and the cqmplainant was rjleased from his confinement under the execution.
The appellants filed an answer to this bill, and "among other
things stated; that they had agreed upon a settlement with the\
complainant, of the various claims which the bank had upon
him. That, they were very desirous of securing the payment
of these claims, and in order to effect the said settlement, they
had given up to the complainant 9784 04; and had agreed to
take his bank stock and property at prices above their value;
and had also agreed to take their payment for "the overdraw"
out of the trust fund in Mason's hands, provided they could
have had the full benefit thereof. They admit that in pursunce of this agreement, the defendant Lynn did transfer to the
bank his stock and lands leaving nothing unpaid, but the judgment for "the overdraw," and the sum of 3700 dollars which
was to have been secured to the satisfaction of the bank. They
'refer to the articles of agreement to show, that the security to.
be given for this 3700 dollars was to be such as was satisfactory to the Board of Directors; and the answer states that it
never was secured to their satisfaction, and that no tender or
offer of sectirity was eier made', that ought to have been acceded to by the bank; and that the bank was right in refusing
the security offered.
The answer also states, that as to the judgment for the overdraw, it never was satisfied, and that the deed of trust to Mason was entirely inoperative, as to this debt, and was made
upon such terms that the banlk could not accede to them. That,
their cashier, immediately after the agreement had been entered
into between Lynn and the bank, had called upon the trustee,
Mr. Mason, to know whether the bank might expect payment
from that fund; and was informed by him, that one of the condition6 of the deed was, that the creditors accepting the benefit
of the deed, should within six months of the date of it, release
to Lynn all claims and demands which they had upon him; that
this deed had been executed on the 16th November 1820, andVOL.1.
SB

SUPREME COURT.

£78

(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria si. Lynn.)
that the agreement of Lynn with the bank had been executed
on the 19th May 1821, so that the six months had, in fact, expi'ed before the said agreement-had been made. The trustee
therefore informed the cashier, that the bank was not entitled
to any benefit under that deed, and that they could not reckon
upon that fund for the payment of their said judgment.
The answer then states, that the bank, finding they were not
entitled to any benefit-from the trust funds, and seeing no other
means of payment from Lynn; had resorted to an execution
upon their judgment, and he was accordingly taken in execution and remained in execution nearly a year, until it became necesary for him to take the oath of insolvency, and under these circumstances he obtained the injunction, and they
prayed that it might be dissolved. I
The deed of trust to Mason, bearing date the 16th of November 1820, was filed as an exhibit with the bill of Lynn the comfilainant. This deed has in it the following proviso, viz. "Provided always however, and it is hereby.6cpressly required, that
each and every of the aforesaid creditors, before they receive the
benefit of this decd, shall sign and execute a full and complete
discharge from all claims and demands whatsoever, against the
said Adam Lynn; and the period of six months shall be, and is
hereby, allowed them from the date of this instrument to come
in, and elect and sign such discharge; and the dividend or share
to which each and all of those who may refuse or neglect for
the space of six months as above allowed, for that purpose, to
sign and execute such discharge as aforesaid, shall go and be
disposed of for the benefit of such of the aforesaid creditors as
shall accept of the terms of this deed, and in the order above
directed."
The agreement entered into between the defendant Lynn and
the bank, was also made an exhibit with the bill. It bears date
on the 29th of May 1821, and so far as respects the matter in
dispute is as follows, viz.ARTICLn 1st.. That the account of A. Lynn, with the Mechanics Bank be stated as followsTo A. Lynn's stock note.
815,360
Mdrs.Buckiand and Mrs. Coryton's,
125
A.Lynn's noteendorsed R. Young, 11,100
3intercst on do. to 4th May 1820,
1,356
A. Lynn's note endorsed J. Gird,
320
Interst on do.
36
Overdraw,
1,573
8
Five protests

00 By A. Lynn's stock,
221,014 50
00 Discount 10 per cent.
2,101 45
00-18913
0 ByMrs. B.& 3Mrs.C.do.
357 50
00 Discount 10 per cent.
35 75
54
321
85 Interest on 3553, dif.erence be434
75 tween stock and stock note, J
123 acres of land at Z25,
3,087
-House and ot,
1,500
Serrt' in deed to MXaots for
3,573
Balance,

.

2,800 it

05
75
00
49
00
85

4,040 98
J29,8O0 10

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

S79

(The Mechanics Bank of Alexaudria vs. Lynn.)
AnTIOT.n 2d. The above balance, except 9349 98, say S700
dollars to be secured by A. Lynn to the sa.isfaction of the Board,
and to-be paid in one, two and three years.
Depositions were taken on the part of the bank, to prove that
the co mmittee of the bank who entered into the settlement -with
the defendant Lynn, were not authorized to decide upon the
security which he had offered for the balance of S700 dollars;
and that they did not in fact agree to accept the security.
Upon the final hearing of ,the case in the Circuit Court, on
the bill, answer, exhibits and depositions, the Court ordered a
perpetual injunction; and, to this decretal order an appeal was
entered to this Court by the Mechanics Bank.
The case was argued by Mr. Wirt, Attorney General, and
Mr. Swan, District Attorney, for the appellants, and by Mr.
Jones and Mr. Taylor, for the appellees.
For the appellants it was contended.The deed from Adam Lynn to J. F. Mason does not appear
to be recorded; no notic6 of its contents was given to .the bank,
nor does it appear that the bank knew of its terms, at the time
of settlement. As soon as the settlement informed the bank of
the deed, applicatibn was made for the benefit of its provisions;
and it.was found, that by its terms the bank wrs excluded'therefrom. 1. Because the period for executing a release had passed;
and secondly .because the bank could not give a general release,
as the debt of 3700 dollars had not been secured. Equity will not
enforce an agreement, when from circumstances subsequently
discovered, it appears that the party who made the agreement
was misled, or.c'nnqt receive under it, what according to its terms
he expected td recelve, 2 ,S . S Lef. 341. If the appellee meant
to make use -of the deed to Mason, he should have shown in
his bill that the bank agreed to abide by it. This is not done,
nor is it said by the appellee that the bank was knowing of its
nature.
The debt of the appellee for 1"th e overdraw," has never.
been paid; although the -judgment for 3700 dollars may, liy
the result of the proceeding-upon the judgment, be satisfied ;
the overdraw remains due, unless the statement in the agree*mentas to it, shall release the claim of the bank on Adam.
'Lynn and oblige them to look to the deed of Mason for pay-,
ament. The bank cannot place'itself within the terms of the"
provisions of that deed.
There is no evidence before the Court that none of the creditors of Adam Lynn came in under the deed, and thus the
fund to arise from that deed is closed against the bank for ever.
Fhe effect of the perpetual injunction will be to prevent any of
he debt for the overdraw being collected, and give to the ap-

380

SUPREIME COURT,

(The WMechanics Bank of Alexandria m. Lynn.)
pelleethe benefit of the concealment he pracised towards the
appellants.
Upon the nature, effects and power, of interrogatories in
,Courts of Chancery, cited, Milford'8 Pleadings,44. Cooper's
Equity, 12. The decisions of the Courts of Virginia, 4 Mum-

ford, 278, 4c.
Mr. Sones and Mr. Taylor, fdr the appellee.The contract of the bank is not one between a creditor and
a solvent debtor, having for its object on the one hand the security of the debt, and on the other, an extension of time for
payment. But it is a compromise with an insolvent--of a debt,
'in part at least, disputed.
It may therefore be well supposed that the bank was willing
to have sacrificed a part of its claim, or to have taken, as to
part, an inadequate security to save the rest.. The, contract
with Mason, approved by the Board on the 29th of May, is in
all its articles executory, except as to the provision for the overdraw,' the only one now in dispute. As to that, if the bank is
to be considered as having agreed to receive the deed to Mason
as a payment of this claim, nothing further on Whe part of Lynn
remained to be done-the deed was beyond his control.
The appellee has carried into effect all the executory part of
the contract, he has transferred his stock, conveyed his land,
and moreover executed his deed of trust from Young. The
bank has obtained payment of the balance of the account of
8700 dollars, so that every thing required of him by the bank
has been done-they now reject the only stipulation which was
particuiarly favourable to Lynn and onerous to them.
In deciding on the security to be offered for the 5700 dollars,
the bank did-not possess an arbitrary power; it was bbund to
act with. good faith. If the security offered was sufficient, they
were bound to have received it as satisfactory. Sufficient security was offered, and was approved of by the committee of the
bank,-and by the committee recommended to the Board of Directors of the-bank.
This affords at leastprimafacle evidence that the security'
was adequate, and ought to have been received; it has been opposed by no evidence to negative this presumption.
Bdt this inquiry is now unnecessary, the bank has by execution, not only enforced payment of the 3700 dollars; but they
hive enforced it with interest, with which, by the contract, Lynn
was not chargeable.
The deed was received as an absolute payment. This may
be inferred, from the suspension of proceeding on their judg•ment from the 29th of May 1821, the date of compromise, to
July 182S, and from other circumstances. And more especially

JANUARY TEAM, 1828.

681

(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria vs. Lynn.)
from the terms of the'deed, which annex the condition of a release to Lynn. If the bahk accepted "1the security in the deed
to Mason" it must be in the terms of the deed. No fraud or
concealment is charged on the complainant in the answer-the
defendant must be presumed to' be informed of the subject on
which they were treating; they no where pretend, that they
were ignorant of the contents of the deed to Mason; and it
may be fairly presumed, that to secure nearly 29,000 dollars
they would be willing to take a doubtful or eveninadequiate security for 1500 dollars. It doeg not appear that any credito'rs
had accepted of the terms of the deed of trust 'toMason, and
if so, it was open to all, particularly.by the very contract of 29th
of May, to the bank.
Their own admissions in their answer, show that they considhred the arrangement still open; they say they require nothing but the complainant's order to his trustee. Th'is'order,_
so far as the complainant could give it, is given by the contract
of 29th of May; so far as he is doncerned, the prosecution of
this suit, affirms the right of the bank, under the deed of trust.
But, although the release may be a condition precedent, thetime is not a partuf the condition, but a qualification of it,-.
from which a Court of Chancery, with the consent of the debit.
or for whose benefit it was introduced, may relieve. Francis'g
.axims, p. 61. max. xxii. Richmond edition. 1 Vernon,,'260.
319.
Mr. Justice THo-.%PsoN delivered th6 opinion of the Court.
Adam Lynn, the complainant in the Court below, filed, his
bill for an injunction to restrain the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria from proceeding upon a judgment which it had recovered againsthim at law for 9 1573 85. A perpetual injunction
was decreed, to reverse which, the present appeal is brought.The bill and answer contain many matters not necessary now
,to be noticed, The grounds upon which the application for
an injunction was placed, were, that on the 29th of May 1821,
a settlemenvwagmade between the parties, of various matters
-which liad bcen for a long time in dispu,. between them,
among which was the judgment now in question. In the account, stated, which formed the basis of that settlement, Lynn
is charged with. this judgment, which is there called "the
overdraw," and credited by security in deed to Mason for the
same. Upon this statement of the account, there was a ba:
lance of 9 3700 found in favour of the bank, for which secturity.
was to be given. This may however be now laid out of view.
F.or although it appears'that some difficulty arose with respect
to the security for this balance, yet it is alleged in the bill that

SUPREME COURT.
(The Iechanics Bank of Alexandria vs. Lynn.)
it, was afterwards paid to the bank; and this is not denied, but
substantially admitted in the answer. And the whole arrangemnent upon that settlement was carried into execution, except
that which related to the judgment now in question.
It is contended on the part of Lynn, that the security in the
deed to Mason was a complete discharge by the bank oi this
debt. And, whether it is so to be considered, is the only question. necessary now to be noticed.
The deed of trust given by Lynn to Mason, bears date the
16th of November 1820; and provides in the first place for the
payment of judgment creditors; then for certain enumerated
creditors; and finally, the surplus to be paid to the Mechanics
Bank of Alexandria in discharge of notes discounted f- r Lynn.
This deed contains the following proviso, "Provided always
and it is hereby expressly required, that each and every of the
aforesaid creditors, before they receive the benefit of this deed,
shall sign and execute a full and complete discharge from all
claims and demands whatever, against the said Adam Lynn.
And the perio& of six months shall be, and is hereby allowed
them from the date of this instrument to come in, and elect and
sign such discharge."
It will be seen from comparing the dates of this deed, and
the settlement 'made between the parties, that the six months
limited for the creditors to come in, and accept of the provision thereby made, had expired when the settlement took place;
and the bank, therefore, according to the terms of the deed
was precluded from taking any benefit under it.
I The bill alleges that the provision made by the trust deed
for the payment of this debt, was amply sufficient; The bank
denies that the judgment has ever been satisfied, and alleges
that on application to the trustee Mason, for the benefit of the
provision thereby made, it was refused because the time-had
expired within which the creditors were to come in and accept of the benefit of it.
Was this'then such a settlement and discharge of this judgment, as,' under the circumstances, will conclusively bind the
bank; and turn it over to this trust fund alone for satisfaction
of the debt?
The complainant in the Court below, apks the aid of a Court
of Chancery to restrain the bank from enforcing a judgment at
law; and if this is an unconscientious request it would be inconsistent with the course of a Court of Equity to grant it.
The complainant may be considered as asking the specific
execution of an agreement, by which 'the bank stipulated to
accept in satisfaction of this judgment, the provisions made by
Lynn for his creditors in the deed of trust.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

88

(The Mechanics Bank 9fAlcandfia v8. Lynn.)
But the Court ought not to decree performance, according
to the letter,*when from change of circumstances, mistake or
misapprehension, it would be unconscientious so to do. The
Court may sr niodify the agreement, 'as to do justice as far as
circumstances will'permiti and refuse specific execution, unless the party seeking itwill comply with slich modificatiojn as
justice requires.
It canuot be presumed, that the bank in point of fact, knew
that the time had expired within which creditors were allowed
to come in and accept of the trust fund. Nor ought it to be presumed, that this circumstance was adverted to by Lynn; as it
would be charging him with a fraudulent design of imposing
upon the bank-an unavailable security.
Whether it was available or not, is a proper subject of'inquiry, under the pleadings. The bill alleges that the -provision
made by the deed for payment of this debt, was abundantly sufficient.
This, the answer denies; because'the complainant by the
limitation of the time within which the creditors were to come
in, had debarred the bank of availingitself of that security, and
that the trustee had excluded this debt on that account. And
all that the bank requires is, that'the complainant should order
his trustee Mason to pay this debt out of the trust-fund."
It is said, however, that the bank is chargeable *ith notice of
this deed, and all its provisions; and has therefore accepted
the fund, at its own risk; and particularly as notice is not denied inthe answer.
There is nothing in the'pleadings or proofs. showing. notice
in fact, and the deed was not recorded,, so as to charge the
bank with constructive notice. There may be reasonable'
grounds to conclude, that the bank had' information with respect to the trust fund before it agreed to accept it as a substitute for the judgment. But actual knowledge of this limitation
cannot reasonably be presumdd, as' it was a fund from which
no benefit could be derived; and the bill contains no charge
calling upon the bank 'for an admission, or denial 'of notice.
This was not required by reason of the special interrogatory
put in the bill. If the bill had charged the bank with notice,
an answer must have been given without such interrogatory.
But a defendant is not bound to answer an interrogatory, not
warranted by some matter contained in a former part of the
bill; (Mitford, 44.) and if the bank was called upon by this interrogatory to admit or deny notice, no answer having been
given, exception shouldqhave been taken to the answer for insufficiency.

Nothing, therefore, appears, which would haveprecluded the

Sy

SUPREME CO.URT.

-,
(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria wi.Lynn.)
bank from the aid of a Court of Chancery; even vfas its.complainant seeking relief against the conclusive operation of this
settlement, whenthe consideration for which the judgment was
to be- discharged has entirely failed, and that by the act of
Lynn himself. ,But when the judgment debtor comes into the
Court asking protection on the grofind that he has satisfied
the judgment, the door is fully open for the Court to modify,
or grant his prayer, upon such conditions as justice demands.
The arrangement between the parties was execulory; no release or discharge of the judgment was given. The account
stated was -the basis only on which the settlement was made,
and to be carried into execution. And it must have been the
intention of both parties, that the bank should be let in to take.
the benefit of the trust, fund. And justice requires that this
should still be done,. as far forth as it can be consistently with
the safety of the trustee, and the rights of other creditors entitled to the benefit of that fund.
The situation of that fund, however, and what has been done'
under the t'ust deed, could not be properly inquired into, under the pleadings in this cause; and without other parties before the Court.
The proper course for the bank would have been, to have
filed a cross bill against the complainant, and such other parties, as were necessary to bring that subject completely-before
the Court and enable it to make a final determination of the
matter in dispute. If the assent of Lynn is all.that is necessary to enable the bank to avail itself of the trust fund, justice
requires that this should be given, before the bank is entirely
restrained from proceeding on its judgment at -law. And it is
no doubt within the legitimate powers of a Court of Chancery,'
-under circumstances" like "thepresent, to' require such assent,
and modification of the settlement, before gianting a perpetual
injunction.
But the rights of other creditors, which may have attached
upon this fund must not be lost sight of; with respect to which
however, wehave not before us, the means of judging.
We are accordingly of opinion that the decree of the Court
below granting a perpetual injunction be reversed. And that
the cause be sent back with directions to the Court to continue
the injunction, until the bank has" a reasonable time to file a
cross bill. And that.the continuance of the injunction be subject to such further order of the Court, as equity.and justice
may require.

This cause came on, &c., on consideration whereof, It is
decreed and ordered by thid Courti that the decree of said Circuit

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

885

(The Mechanics Bank of'Alexandria vi.Lynn.)
Court in this cause granting a perpetua
unction be and the
.j
same is hereby reversed and annulled; an it is further ordered
by this Court that the cause be remanded to .the said Circuit
Court, with directions to continue the injunction until the bank
has a reasonable time to file a cross bill, and that the continuance
of such injunction be subject to such.further orders of the Court,
as equity and justiremay require.,

VoL. L

