SUPREME COURT.

loaN

CoNARD

v8. Tin ATLANTIC INSURANCE COXPAN'
Nzw YORK.

It is not necessary that a reapondentialoan should be made before the departure of the ship on the voyage; nor that the money loaned, should
be employed in the outfit of the vessel, orinvested in the goods'on which
the risk isrun. {486}
It matters not, at what time the loan is made, nor upon what goods the risk
is taken. If the risk'of the voyage be substantially aid really taken ; if
thi transaction be not a device to cover usury, gaming or fraud; if tht"
advance be in good faith, for a maritime premium; it is no objection to
it, 'that it was made afterthe voyage was commencednor that the money
was appropriated to purposes wholly unconnected with the voyage.
The lender on respondenta, is not presumed to lend on the faith of any
particular appropriation of the money; and if it were otherwise, his security could not be avoided by any misapplication of the fund, where the
risk was bonafiderun, uponother goods; and it wasnot a mere contract of
wager and hazard. {437}
it seems, that the common-and usual form of a repondentia bond, is that
which was used in this case. {437}
What is the nature and effect of the priority of the United States, under
the statute of 1799, chap. 128, sec. 65. 1438}
Itis obvious, that the latter clause of the 65th section of the Act of 1799,
is merely an explanation of the term "insolvency" used in the first clause,
anud embrces three classes of cases, all of which relate to living debtors.
The case t" deceased debtors, stands wholly upon the alternative in the
former part of tae enactment. 14391
Insolvency, in the stase of the statute, relates to'such a general.d.;estment
of property, as would in fact be equivalent to insolvency in its technicM
sense. It supposes, that all the debtor's property has passed from him.'
This was the language of the decision in the case of the United States
vs. Hooe, 3 Cra=c7,73;and it was consequentlyheld, that an assignment of
part of the debtor's property, did not fall within the provision of the stk.
tute. {439}
Mere inability of the debtor to pay all his debts, is not an insolvency within
the statute; but, it must be manifested in one of the three modes, pointed out in the explanatory clause of the section. 14391
The priority, as limited, and established in favour of the United States, is
not a right which supersedes and overrules the assignment of the debtor,
as to any property which the United States may afterwards elect to take
in execution, so as to prevent its passing by virtue of such assignment to
the assignees; but it is a mere right of prior payment,.out of the general
funds of the debtor in the hands of th6 assignees; and the assignees are
rendered personally liable, if they omit to discharge the debt due to the
United States. '{439}
It is true, that in discissions in Courts of Equity a mottgage is sometimes
'alled a lien, for a debt; and so it certainly is, and something more; it is
a transfer of the property itself, as security for the debt. This must be
admitted to be true at law, and it is equally true in equity; for in this re5pect equity follows the law. The estate-is considered as atrust, and ac-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

387

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company:)
cording to'the intention of the jarties, as a qualified estate and security.
Vlien the debt is discharged, thee is a resulting trust for the mortgagor.
It is therefore only in a loose atid general sense, that it is sometimes called a lien; and then only by way of contrast, to an estate absolute, and
indefeisible. 1441}
It has never yet been decided by this Court, that the priority of tle United
States will divest a specific lien, attached to any thing, whether it be accompanied by possession or not. 1441}
The case of The'lluson vs. Smith, 2 -Wheat.396, turned upon its own particuar circumstances, aid did not establish any principles different from those
which are recognised in this case. And it establishes no such- proposition, as that a specific and perfected lien can be displaced by the mere
priority of the United States. 14441
It is not understood, that a general lien, by judgmnent on lands, constitutes
per se a propetty or right in the land itself. It only confers a right tqlevy
ontb same, to the exclusion ofother adverse interests, subsequjitto the
judgment; and when the levy is actually made on the'siume, the title of
the creditor relates back to the time of thb judgment, so as to cut out intermediate incumbrances. But subject to-this, the debtor has full powerto
sell or otherwise dispose of the land. 1443}
By the well settled principles of commercial law, the consignee is the authorized agent of the owner, whoever he may be, to receive the goods;
and by his endorsement of the bill of lading to a bonafide purchaser, for
a valuable con.ideration, without notice of any adverse interest, the latter
becomes, as against all the world, the owner of the goods. This is the
result of the principle, that bills of iding are transferable by endorse.
ment, and thus may pass the property. {445}"
Strictly speaking, no person but the consignee can by any endorsement on
the bill of lading pass the legal title to the goods.' But, if the shipper be
the owner, and the shipment be on his own account and risk, although be
may not pass the title by. virtue of a mere ind6rsement of the bill of lad.
ing, unlesahe be the consignee, or the goods h e deliverable to his order;
yet, by an assignment on the bill of lading, or by a separate instrument,
he can pass the legal title to the same; and it will be good against all
"perons
5 except purchasers for a valuable consideration, without- notice,
by endorsement on the bill of lading itself. Such an assignment by the
owner, passes the legal title against his agents or fact6rs," and creditors,
in favou- of the assignee. f4451
Mortgages may as well be gren to secure future avhances, and contingent
debts, as those which are certain and due. The only question that properly arises in such cases, is the bonafides of the transaction. 14481
Without undertaking to 'suggest, whether in any case the want of possession of the thing sold constitutes, per se, a badge of fraud, or is only, prirmafade, a presumption of fraud; it is sufficient to say, that in case even
of an absolute sale of personal property, the want of such possession is
not presumption of fraud, if possession cannot, from the circumstances of
the property, be within the power of the parties. 1449
In cases where the sale is not absolute but.conditional, the want of possession, if consistent with the stipulations of the parties, and afotioriif flowing directly from them, has never been held to be,per se, a badge of
fraud. 1449}
On a trial upon the merits, it is too late t6 take exception to the capacity
of the plaintiff to sue, this should have been done by a plea in abatement, before the trial; and the omission to do this is a waiver of the objection. 145o

388

SUPREME COURT.

(Couard s. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
Ajoint and severar bond, where it was not understood to be offered as general evidence as to all the parties to it, but only as to one of the obligors,
and was connected with a title derived from that obligor was properly
permitted to go to the jury, upon proof of the execution of the bond by
that obligor alone; as; under the circumstances, it was primafade evidence of his execution of the instrument. 1451}

THIS was an action of trespass brought in the Circuit Court
for the district of Pennsylvania, by the Atlantic InSurance Company of New-York, against John Conard,'the Marshal of the
district of. Pennisylvania, for taking and carrying away certain
teas, imported from Canton intothe port of Philadelphia, on
board the ships Addison and Superior. Pleas the.general issui,
and a special justification under aAfa. againt the goods.as the
property of Edward Thomson. The suit was instituted, and
tried under. an. agreement, 'which is recited in the following
bond.Know all men by these presents, that we, the Atlantic Insurance Company of New-York, are held, and firmly bound -untothe United States of America, in the sum of forty-two thousand
dollars, lawful money of the United Sta: es of America, to be
paid to the said United States of Americn, their certain Attorneys, Successors, or Assigns, to which payment,-well, and truly
to be made, and done, we bind ourselves, and -our successors,
firmly'by these presents, sealed with our seal of incorporation,
and dated this'ninth day of October, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six.
Whereas, the goods and merchandise described in an-invoice,
a copy of which is annexed, imported in the ship Addison, from
Canton, sifely arrived at the port of Philadelphia, have been
levied on by the Marshal of the Eastern District of Pennsylvanib, by virtue of an egecutionon ajudgment in favour of the United States, againstEdward 7mison, of Philadelphia, as the property of the saidEdward Thomson; and, whereas, the.Atlantic
Insurance Company of New-York, claim to be the owners in law,
or equity, of the said goods, and actually hold the bills of lading
andinvoice thereof; under which the said goods have been duly
entered at the Custom House, and the duties thereon, secured
to be paid according to law. And, whereas, it-has beefi agreed
by, and between, the Secretary of the Treasury, in behalf of the.
-United States, and the-said-Atlantic Insurance Company, that
a suit shall be instituted by the said named company, against
the'faid Marshal, in whle the sole question to be tried,,anddecidmtlantic. Insuredshall be, whether the United States, or the said
ance Company are entitld to said goods, and the proceedsthereof;
and, whereas it has been further agreed, that the said goods shall
be delivered to the said Atlantic Insurance Com~any,. without
prejudice to the rights of the United States, under the said ex-

JANUARY .TEPM, 1828.

389

(Con.a"d m. The Atlantic Inamrnce Company.)
ecution or otherwise;- and that they shall sell and dispose of the
same, in the best manner, and for the best price they can obtain
therefor, and for cash, or upon credit as they may judge expedient; and that the moneys arising from the sales thereof. de'ducting the duties and all customary charges, and commissions
on such sales, shall be deposited by the said Atlantic Insurance
Company,.as soon as received from, and after the sale, in the
Bank of the United States, to the credit of the President of 'said
bank, in trust, to be invested by the said President of the said
bank, in the stock of the United States, in the name of the said
President in trust, so to remain, until it shall judicially and finally be decided' to whom the said. godds.or the proceeds thereof;
do in right, afti according to law belong; and on the further
trust, that whenever such decision shall be made, the said President.of the said bank, shall deliver the said moneys, ortransfer the said stock to the P~arty in whose favour such decision
shall be made. And, whereas, in pursuance of the said -agreement, the said goods have been this day delivered to the said
Atlantic Insurance Company of New-York, it being understood
and agreed that such delivery of the goods, shall not prejudice
any existing right of the said company.
Now the condition of this obligation is such, -if the said Atlantic Insurance Company, of New-York, shall comply with the
said arrangements, and well, and truly sell, and dispose of the
said goods, and cause the moneys arising from the sales thereof, deducting therefrom the duties, charges, and commissions,
as aforesaid, to be deposited in the bank, in trust, according to
the true intent and meaning of the above recited agreement, andfor the purposes therein set forth. This obliation to be void,
otherwise to be, and remain in full force and Virtue.

(Signed,)
ARCH. GRAcE, Prest. * L. S.]
Attest, GE.o. B. RAPnLTF,.Secretary of the Atlantic'Insur-

ance Company of New-York.
The facts as they appeared by the record were ag: lows.-On
the 21st June 18W5, the plaintiffs below, lent to Edward Thomson the sum of 21,000 dollars, upon repondentia, by the Addison, for which the folloiving bond was executed and deliVered
to the company:Know all men by these preseqts, that we Rdward Thomson.,
of the city of Philadelphia, Edward H. NicO, Francis H. Nicoll, and Floyd S. Bailey, of the city of lew-York, are held
and firmly bound unto the Atlantic Insurance Company, of NewYork, in the sum of forty-two thousand dollars, lawful money
of the United States of America, to be paid to the said the atlantic Insurance Company of New-York, their certain attorney,
successors, or assigns, to which paymenf, well and truly to be
made, w6 do bid ourselves and each of us, our and each of our

390

SUPREME COURT.

(Conord vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
heirs, executors, and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents. Sealed with ourseals, and dated this twenty-first day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and twenty-five.
I Whereas the said the Atlantic Insurance Company of NewYork, have this day lent and advanced to the above named Edward Thomson, Edward H. Nicoll, Francis H. Nicoll, and Floyd
S. Bailey, the sum, of twenty-one thousand dollars, lawful money
of the United States -of America, upon the goods, wares, merchandise, and specie, to that amount laden or to be laden, on
board the American ship, called the Addison, of Philadelphia,
whereof Hidelius is master, or which may be laden on account
of the said Edward Thomson, Edward H. Nicoll, Francis H.
Nicoll, and Floyd S. Bailey, on board the said vessel, at any
time during her intended voyage hereinafter mentioned.
And whereas the said vessel is now bound on a voyage at,
and from Philadelphia to Canton, and at and from thence back
to Philadelphia, with the usual privileges for trader and refreshmefits.
And whereas the said the Atlantic Insurance Company of
New-York, are content to stand and bear the risks against
which the said company usually insure by their cargo policies,
on the said sum so lent and advanced on the said goods, wares,
merchandise, and specie, laden or to be laden on board of the
said vessel as aforesaid, during the said voyage, so as the same
do not exceed the term of twelVe calendar months, to be computed from the day of the date of the bill of tading, viz: the
twenty-first day of April 1825.
Now the condition of this obligation is such, that if the: said.
ship laden, with the said goods, wares, merchandise, and specie,
do and shall, with all convenient speed, proceed and sail omthe
said voyage from Philadelphia to Canton, and at, and from'
thence bacJk to Philadelphia, and return. and come to Philadelphia, having on board the above stipulated amount in value, in
specie or merchandise, as the case may be, on the respective
passages, both outward and homeward, to end her voyage there,
by or before the end or expiration of twelve calendar months,
to be computed from the date aforesaid, and that without 4evi-.
ation, (the.dangers and casualties of the seas excepted;) and if
the.abo,.. boundan Edward Thomson, Edward H. Nicoll, Francis H. Nicoll, and Floyd S. ]iley, or either of them,.or either
of their heirs, executors, or administrators, shall, and do well,
and truly.pay,- or cause to be paid, at the city of New-York, to
the above named the Atlantic Insurance Company of NewYork, their attorney, successors, or assigns, the full sum of
iwetnty-one thousand dollars, lawful money as aforesaid, "mnmediately upon the first' and next return and arrival of the said

JANUARY TERM, i828.

391

(Conardvs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
ship, at the port of Philadelphia. or at and upon the end and expiration of twelve calendar months, to be computed as aforesaid,'whichever shall first happen, together with the sum of
two thousand two hundred and five dollars, lawful money as
aforesaid, that being the-stipulated marine interest and premium, on the said loan: or if the said Edward Thomson, Edward
H. Nicoll, Francis H. Nicoll, and Floyd S. Bailey, or either of
them, their, or either of their heirs, executors, or administrators, shall and do immediately upon the first and next return
and arrival of the said vessel, at the port of Philadelphia as
aforesaid, provided such return and arrival happen within the
space of twelve calendar- months, to be computed as aforesaid,
give security satisfactory to the said the Atlantic Insurance Company of New-York, to pay at the city of New-York, to the said
the Atlantic Insurance Company of New-York, their successors
or assigns, the said sum of twenty-oni thousand dollars, together with the said sum of two thousand two hundred and five
dollars, within three months from the time of such return and
arrival, with laivful interest thereupon, from the time of such
return, and arrival, and shall, and do well, and truly pay the
same accordingly, at. the expiration of the said three months;
or if, in the said voyage, and before the end of the said twelve
months, to be computed as aforesaid a total loss of the said
goods, wares, merchandise,' and specie, by the risks against
which said company usually insure by their cargo policies,
shall unavoidably happen, and the said Edward Thomson, Edward H. Nicoll, Francis H. Nicoll, and Floyd S. Bailey, their
heirs, executors, or administrators, shall, and do well, and sufficiently abandon,- transfer, and assign, to the said the Atlantic
Insurance Company of New-York, their successors or assigns,
all the said goods, wares, merchindise, and specie of the said
Edward Thomson, Edward H. Nicoll, Francis H. Nicoll, and
Floyd S. Bailey, so laden, and to be carried from the said port
of Philadelphia, on board the 'said ship, and all other goods,
wares, merchandise,' and specie, which shall be acquired during
the said voyage, by reason of, or from the proceeds of the said
last mentioned goods~wares, merchandise, and-specie, and the
nett proceeds thereof, and well and truly do account for and pay,
upon oath or, affiimation, within four calendar months, to be
computed from the time of such loss, to the said the Atlantic
Insurance Company of New-York, or their successors, a just
and proportionable average on all the said specie, goods, wares,
and merchandise, and proceeds, if any salvage average, or allowance, shall be obtained by reason of, or upon the samei not.withstanding such loss; then this obligation to be void; otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.
It being first declared to be the mutual understanding and

SUPREME COURT.

9

(Conard w. The Atlanti6 Inidrance Company.)
agreemeuit of the parties to this contract , that the lenders shall
not be liable for any charge, damage, or loss, that may arise in.
consequence of a seizure or detention, for or on account of any
illicit or prohibited trade, or any trade in articles contraband
pf war; but that the lenders shall be liable to losses and, averages, and entitled to the beifefit of salvage, in the same manner, to all intents and purposes, as underwriters on a policy of
insurance, according to the'usages and practices in the city of
New-York; and that in like manner the borrowers shall be subject to all the duties imposeil on the assured, by the usual policies of insurance, and the customs and practices of the said city.
Sealed .and delivered in the presence of us,
PETER MACKIE,
CHARLES MACKIE,

To the signature of Edward Thomson,
J. H. CLiNCH,
Il. W. NIoOLL,
To the three last named.
EDWARD THOMSON, [L. S.)
Euw. H. NICOLL, per [L S.]
ROBERT SMITH, at'y.

FRANCIs H. NIcoLL
FLoYD

S. BAILEY,

'-."

[L.

S.

[L. S.3

At the same time the following memorandum, bill of lading,
and assignment thereon, were also executed and delivered to the

company

-

Whereas, it hath been agreed that the bills of.lading for the
goods, specie, wares, and merchandise, mentioned in the within obligation, shall be endorsed to, "The Atlantic Insurance
Company of New-York," as a collateral security for the loan
within mentioned:
Auld whereas it has been further agreed, that the property to
be shipped homeward as aforesaid, being the proceeds of the
said loan, shall be for the account and risk of us the said borrowers, or some of us; that the bills of lading, therefore, shall
express the same, and shall also express that the said property
shall be deliverable to the order of 'the shippers, and that the
same shall be endorsed in blank, and shall be placed in the hands
of the said "Atlantle Insurance Company of New-York," either
before or on the arrival of the said ship at Philadelphia, to be
held by them as a continuation of such collateral security, to the
performance of which we do bind ourselves:
Now by this instrument it is expressly declared, that -such
endorsement, or consignment, shall not be held to exonerate the

persons -of the obligors, nor compel the said "6The Atlantic Insurance.Company of New-York" to accept the gobds and merchandise, which may arrive under such bill of lading and coh-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

39-3

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

signment, in aischarge of such debt; but it shall be lawful for
the said "1The Atlantic Insurance Company of New-York," to
receive: and hold the said goods, specie, wares, and -nerchandise, for the space of ninety days after their arrival at the port of
Philadelphia.
And in case the principal, interest, and premium, in the within obligation mentioned, shall not be paid or satisfied within

the said time, to dispose of the same at public auction, and to
charge the obligors with the balance that may remain due, after deducting from the amount of said sales, the freight, duties,
commissions, and all other just and proper charges.
Sealed and delivered in presence of us,
PETER MACKI,
CHARLES MACKIE,
To the signature of Edward Thomson.
J.H. CLINCH,
H. W. NICOLL,
To the three last named.
EDWARD THOMSON, [L. S.]
EDw. H. NICOL., per" L S.
]
ROBERT SMITH, att'y.

F. H.

NICOLL.,
[L.: 51
FLOYD S. BAILEY,
Shipped in go'od order and condition, by Edward Thomson,
in aud upon the ship called the Addison, whereof Hidelius is
master for this voyage, now lying in the pqrt of Philadelphia,
and bound for Canton, seven kegs containing three thousand
Spanish dollars, for account and risk of the' shipper, a native citizen of the United States of America, being marked and
numbered as in the margin, and are to be delivered in the like
good order and well conditioned, at the aforesaid port of Canton, (the danger of the seas only excepted,) unto John R. Thomson, Esq. or to his assigns, he or they paying freight for the
said goods, at the rate of nothing, with primage and average
accustomed. In witness whereof; the master or purser of the
said ship hath affirmec to the three bills of lading, all of this
tenor and date; one of vhich being accomplished, the other to
stand void. Dated at Philadelphia the 1st day of'April, 1825.
ANDnEW HIDELIUS, JR.
No; 5. [E. T.] 38 a 44, 7 kegs containing 3000 each.
An assignment endorsed thereon, dated the 21st June-1825,
as follows.:(COPY.).
For value received, I do hereby, assign and transfer to the
Atlantic Insirance Company of New-York, the within bill of
lading, and the specie, goods, wares, and merchandise, to be
prdcured thereon, or thereby. and any return cargo to be ob-

Vor. I.

3D

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
tained by the within mentioned outward cargo, and specie, or
the proceeds thereof, and all the return cargo to be taken on
board the within 'named ship, by or for my account, as collateral decurity, according to an agreement, duly executed and adjoined to a respondentia bond given by myself, Edward H. Nicoll, Francis H. Nicoll, and'Floyd S. Bailey, dated this twenty-first day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and twenty-five, for the sum of twenty-one thousand
dollars. Witness my hand.and seal, this 21st day of June 1825.
EDWD. THOMSON.

PETER MACKIF,
BARCLAY ARNY, Witnesses.
The Addison sailed from Philadelphia for Canton, on or
about the 21st April 1825.
On the 14th July 1825, the plaintiffs also lent to Edward
Thomson the sum of 13,960 dollars upon respondentia by the
Superior, for which a similar bond, and memorandum, and a
correspondihg bill of lading and assignment, were executed to
the lenders. The Superior sailed from Philadelphia for Canton on or about the 6th June 1825.
There was no difference between these two operations, except
this, that the entire loan of. 21,000 dollars by the Addison was
paid by the company to the agents of Thomson, whereas the
loan by the Superior was applied, with his consent, to pay a previous loan on repondentiaby another ship of Thomson's, which
had fallen due.
On the 19th November 1825, Edward Thomson, being very
largely indebted to the United States upon duty bonds, and for
duties on teas not bonded, made a general assignment of all his
estate and effects to Richard Renshaw and Peter Mackie, in
trust for his creditors; and on the 13th March 1826, he con,fessed a judgment to the United States for half a million of dollars, upon which afi.fa. was issued on ths same day.
In the month" of March 1826, and a few days before the arrival of the Addison, the assignees of Thomson received, under
a blank envelop addressed to him, a duplicate bill of lading
and invoice of a shipment homeward by that vessel, for the teas
in question in this suit, and delivered them to the agents of.the
Insurance Company. They were respectively dated the 22d
November 1825, deliverable to the order of the shipper at Canton, .. Fisher attorney for John R. Thomson, and by him endbrsed in blank. The invoice stated the account and risk to
' be for Edward Thomson. That the teas in this invoice were
the retarns of the outward specie in the bill of lading assigned
to the compary, was proved by means of the words and figure
No. 5, on the homeward invoice, and the s'ame number and
figure on lhe outbward-bill of lading; which were the means con-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

395

(Conard vt. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

certed between Edward Thomson and his supercargo in Can,.
ton, to fix the identity. The original bill of lading and invoice
were received by the'assignees on the arrival of the Addison,
and in like manner delivered to the company. In the same
mo'nth Peter Mackie, one of the assignees, received from Canton, the homeward bill of lading and invoice of a shipment of
teas, &c. by the Superior, dated the 2d December 1825, deli-.
verable to his own order; and Barclay Arny,a clerk in the service of Thomson, received a bill of lading and invoice of another shipment by the Superior, bearing the same date, and deliverable to his order. These returns, being, as was proved at
the trial, purchased with the specie in the outward bill of lading by the Superior,assigned to the company, the consignees
Mackie and Arny, on the 22d March 1826, endorsed the papers to the plaintiffs; the rest of the shipment of 13,960 dollars,
was expended for ship's disbursements in Canton.
Both shipments by the Addison and Superior were levied
upon by the Marshal, under thef&ifa. before mentioned, on the
15th March 1826, while thd ships were below in the river, and
taken into his custody, Where they remained until the arrangexnent recited in the bond of the 9th October 1826; in consequence of which they were given up.
It further appeared upon the trial, that the Addison brought
,withher addressed to Thomson, a general bill 'of lading for
her entire cargo, deliverable to Edward Thomson or assigns, but
not signed by the captain; and also a general invoice, stating
the cargo to be for his account and risk, and deliverable to
his order. The manifest which had been. made out in Canton by the agent of Thomson, stated the cargo to be consigned
to Thomson, and not to order; and when the agent delivered
it to the captain, he told him that it was done to save him the
necessity of overhauling his papers at sea, and that he might
rely on it as being correct. The captain however, on receiving a letter from the assignees, upon his arriving on the American coast, examined his bills of lading, and finding that they
were deliverable to order, altered his manifest in conformity.
The object of these double papers, it was alleged, w s to
enable Thomson, after settling with the lenders on reupon
dehtia, as he had aone upon former occasions, to cancel f;.e
particular bills and invoices; and after procuring the s~gia.ture of the captain to the general bill of lading, to ente . the
cargo as consigned to him.
Thu preceding statement is all that is necessary to introduce
the points of evidence and law that were raised upon the re-cord, and which came up for revision in this Court.
The plaintiffs' counsel having offered at the trial to give
evidence of the reapondetia bond by the Addisor, it wag ob-

396

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insuance Company.)
jected to, until they had proved that the company were duly incorporated according to law. The plaintiffs' counsel then gave
notice to the defendant's counsel, the District attorney of the
United States, to produce the bond of 9 October 1826; and
gave in'evidence the agreement of counsel for entering the
action, wherein it was stated, that the question to be tried was,
whether the plaintiffs or the United States, were entitled to the
goodsmentioned in the declaration or the proceeds, thereof, and
that the merits should be determined without further form.
The bond not being produced, the plaintiffs' counsel called
Austin L.-Sands to prove the delivery of that bond to the district attorney, and also its 'contents; and began by asking him,
if he was an agent of the Atlantic Insurance Company. To this
question the counsel for ihe defendant objected, and the Court
overruled the objection. To this opinion of the Court a bill of
exceptions was tendered and sealed.
The bond of 9 October 1826 being then proved, the counsel
for the plaintiffs contended that they were authorized, without
further proof, to give evidence of the respondentia bond, of
whichjopinion was the Court; and to this opinion also the de- fendant's council tendered an exception.
Mackie the subscribing witness 1o E. Thomson's signature
to the respondenfia bond, memorandum, and assignment of the
bill of lading, proved -thehand writing of Thomson, his own at-'
testation, and that of Charles Mackie-and also the hand .writing of Clinch and Nicoll, the other witnesses to the bond and
memorandum; who resided in New-York and were notproduced.
-The counsel for the plaintiffs then offered to read that bond in
evidence, to which the cofinsel for the defendant objected, but
the Court suffered it to be read, as the several bond of Thomson; to which opinion an exception: was alsb tendered.
Upon the examination of A. Hidelius, the captain of the Addison_ a witness produced on behalf of the defendant, the counsel proposed to ask him the following question-Did Mr.
.Mackie and Mr. Nicoll make out a new manifest, altering the
destination of the Addison, and ask you to- enter it as a true
manifest at the Custom House? This question was objected to
by the plaintiffs' counsel, and overruled by the Court; to whose
opinion the defendant again excepted.
The defendant's counsel proposed then to ask the sarme witness the following question-Did you see Mr. Mackie pay inoney to the pilot for being first on board the Addison? Which
question was objected to, overruled, and the rejection excepted to in like manner.
The defendant's counsel having then produced an original
letter from Thomson to captain Hidelius, with a postscript by
the assignee, giving the captain a caution in regard to his mani-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

-

S97

(Conard vs. The A-thninc Tnsurance Company.)
fest, proposed to ask Peter Mackie the following question-was
the greate r part of the letter now produced signed by Edward
Thomson, and countersigned by his assignees, drafted by the
District'attorney? This question was in like manner objected
to and overruled, and an exception taken.
The same counsel proposed to ask of Barclay Arny, another
witness, the following question-Do you know how the money
was applied that was borrowed on the Addison and Superior
of the plaintiffs. This question was objected to, unless the application was with the plaintiffs' knowledge, and was overruled. To this opinion a bill of exceptions was also tendered'by
the defendant.
At the close of the argument to the Court and Jury on the
law and fact of the case, Mr. Justice Washington delivered the
follbwing points, in charge to the jury.
.First: That the bonds given by Edward Thomson to the
plaintiffs, for securing the loans' of twenty-one thousand dollars on the cargo of the Addison, and of thirteen thousand
nine hundred and sixty dollars, on that of the Superior, are not
invalid as marine contracts, for the reason alleged by the counsel for the defendant; ,that is to say, because in respect to the
former, the loan was made after the Addison had sailed upon
her voyage, and in respect to the latter, for the same reason;
and because the bond was given by the said Thomson for securing a balance due by him to the plaintiffs, on account of preceding loans made to him, and not for money lent at the time
.the said security was given.
Second. That it is no objection to the validity of the bond
givefi for securing the loan, on the cargo of the Addispn, upon
the ground of usury, that such cargo was known, by the parties, at the time the said bond was given, to have been in safety at and upon the departure of the said vessel from Philadelphia; since the real question for the 'jury to decide in relation
to that subject was, whether, updn the whole of the evidence
given in the cause, the loan was bottomed upon a fair marine
contract, the repayment of which was to depend upon the perils which the oplaintiffs assumed to bear, or whether the contract was merely a device to cover an usurious loan. If the
risk be inconsiderable, or for a part of the voyage only, and the
marine interest be disproportioned thereto, these circumstances may warrant the presumption of unfair conduct sufficient
to avoid the contract. Bat the meie circumstance of the known
safety of the cargo it any particular period of the voyage, or of
the assumed risk, is not, per se, an objection to the contract 0n
the ground of usury. If Edwarl Thomson was to pay interestfrom aperiod antecedent to the'loan, there can be no question,
but that the contract was usurious, and it would he so although

3$98

SUPREME COURT.

(Conrard we.The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
no more than the Legal rate of interest was reserved. How that
fact -is, the jury must decide from the evidence before them.
Third. That the loan upon the cargo of the Addison, was by
the terms of the aforesaid bond, given to secure it at the risk
of the plaintiffs during the whole voyage, notwithstanding'the
omissio of the words "'lost or not lost" in the said bond;
there being other and equivalent expressions in the said instrument.
Wourlh. That the above bond given for securing the loan
made. up6n the cargo of the Addison, together with the memo3andum endorsed on ilk the bill of lading outward, and the endorsement thereon, are all to he considered as forming parts
of one entire contract; and as such, they do, upon a fair and
legal construction of them, Cover that part of the homeward
cargo, which.was the ivestment of the outward cargo on which
thelpan was secured; and that the same principles are applicable to the contract in relation to the Superior. That the
above instruments, taken and construed together as forming
one contract, Yested in the plaintiffs an equitable 'title to the
return cargoes of those vessels; if upon the evidence given in
the cause, the jury should be of opinion, that those return cargoes were in point of fact the investment of the outward cargoes
of tIe ddid0A and Superior, respectively. And that nothing
remained to be done to vest in the plaintiffs the legal right to
the said property, respectively; but the. delivery to them of the
homeward bills of lading of the Addison's cargo, endorsed in
blank, and an assignment to the plaintiffs by Mackie and Arny,
of the homeward bills of lading of the cargo of the Superior.
Fifth. That the equitable title of the plaintiffs, so vested in
them on the nineteenth day of November 1-825, when Edward
Thomson made an assignment of all his pr6perty for the benefit of his creditors, was fiot defeated or affected by the right
of preference, which that act gave .to the .United States to be
first paid what was dud to them by the said Thomsobn, and that
this equitable title was converted into a legal one, by the subsequent delivery to the plaintiffi of the bills of fading endorsed
in blank of the Addison's homeward cargo, and'of the assignient by Mackie and Arny, of those of the cargo of the Superior.
Sixth. That the actual possession of the auove return cargoes
by the masters of the Addison and' Superior, until hey were
levied upon under executions at the suit of the United States
against Thomson, is not, per se, in law, a badge of fraud, which
ought to invalidate or affect the title of the .plaintiffs to those
cargoes.
S'eventh. That as to the charge of fraud, which it.is insisted
by the counsel for the defendant taints this transaction through-

JANUARY TERM, .1828.

S99

(Conard vs. The Atlantic insurce Company.)
out, that is a subject exclusively for the consideration and determination of the jury, upon the evidence laid before them; in
deciding upon which, they are to observe, First. That actual
fiaud must be proved, and ought not to be presumed: and, Secondly. That no fraud which may have been practised, or attempted, by Edward Thomson, his captains or agents,, ought
to affect the validity of these 'contradts; unress they shiould be
satisfied, from the evidence, that the plaintiffsi some way or
other, participated in the same.
Lastly. That if the jury should be of opinion, upon the whole
of the evidence, that the transactions between the plaintiffs
and E. Thomson, which constitute the basis of this action,
were fair, so far as the plaintiffs were concerned in them;- and
that they stand clear of the imputation of usury, bn the ground
that interest was reserved from a period antecedent to'the loan;
and if further they are satisfied, that the homeward cargoes
were the proceeds of the outward, cargoes on-which -the secu-'
rities were given; then their verdict ought to be for the plaintiff, otherwise not. It was further stated by the Judge that he
had declined giving a construction of the 62d section of the.
Act imposing duties, or an opinion on the question. whether
under that-section, the consignee of-imported goods is liable
for the duties on them; considering it to be unnecessary from
the view which he had taken of the case.
And in explanation of the charge, the following questions
were propounded by the counsel and answered by the Court.
• 1. The defendant's counsel requested the Court to charge
the jury that: if the agreement of the plaintiffs with Edward
Thomson was made with the view to deprive the United States
of their duties, it was fraudulent, and the plaintiffs could not
recover. To which the Judge answered, that if the agreement
was made with that view, such would be the legal consequence;
but that he had heard no evidence to warrant that conclusion in
point of fact; but that was a subject exclusively for the jury.
2d. The Court was asked by the same counsel, to charge,
that if the contract of Edward Thomson with the defendant, was
to pay more than lawful interest during a period when there
was no marine risk, the contract was usurious and void. To
which the Judge answered, that if the contract was a cover to
charge more than lawful interest, when there was no marine
risk, it was usurious and void. That he did not himself understand the entries from the plaintiffs' books which had been
given in evidence, but that the fact upon which the question is
predicated, was proper for the decision of the jury.
Sd. The Court was then asked by the plaintiffs' counsel to
charge, that the parties were at liberty to agree for a marine
interest greater than the legal rate for the tinie that the money

40)

SU PREME COURT.
(Coniard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

was exposed tp marine risels, or the loan was at hazard by the
marine risk
'goodi4 on which it was made. To which
the Judge ai.
_d, that they certainly Were.
To all which the defendant's counsel excepted, and the Judges
sealed a bill of exceptions.
Mr. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, stated, that after several years of actual but concealed insolvency, Thomson owned
it on the 19th of November 1825, by the public assignment of
all his property. He then was the debtor to the United States
979,102 dollars 63 cents for duties on his importations in the
years 1823-4-5; which duties were due at the importations,
though bonded with credits for.future payments. Such is the
doctine of the case of The United States vs. Lyman, 1 1las.
482. Thus the contest ar6se between the United States, who
loaned these credits, and the defendant in error, who'also claim
reimbursement for loans; but the fund in dispute is the only
resource of the United States, while the Insurance Comnany
have the other obligors, besides Thomson, on the respondentia
bond to look to. ,The United States are privileged creditors;not, as is often imputed, by prerogative, but by a lawful priority, which belon5 to every sovereignty or government. Their
credits on importation are loans, for which the consileration
and equivalent are priority of payment, before any other, reditors; and the fund in dispute proceeds from loans thus privileged. It is as just and equitable, as it is established by law, that
for such loans the government should be paid before any other
creditor,' no matter what security he has for his debt. This
principle is the privilege of every government, and as consonant with republican as with regal sovereignty. It belongs to
all codes, in all ages and countries. 'Thus, in England before the
statute of Acton Burnell, the crown had execution against the
person and the lands of its' debtors, which was not allotved to
any subject at that time. Plowd. 441, 3 Co. 11. 2 Bac. qbridg.
68. Government is not bound by certificate of bankruptcy, by
Act of Limitations, or to pay costs; principles common to the
American as to the English law. The crown may assign a
chose in action, and its assignee may'sue in his own name. Cro.
.Ta. 179, Rex vs. T'Nine. Such was the ancient'Roman law.
Wood's Inst. of the Civ. Law, b. S. ch. 1. p. 141. The state was
preferred for all debts, and had a lien on the property of all
receivers of public funds, with the right of execution froni the
Treasury, without any suit; which are provisions similar to those
of the Acts of Congress. The modern civil law is the same:
fiscus semper habetju pignor's.Poth. D 'hypotheque, ch. 1. art.S.
p. 116. All are bound to pay the state before private creditors.
Grot. de Jure, B. 4 P. b. 2. ch. 1. sec. 6. These principles are
indispensable to good overnment. It is neither politic nor
.

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

401

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
permitted for the judiciary to enfeeble by construction, what
the legislature has done to establish them. Neither property
nor lien is asserted for the United States, but privilege to be first
paid out of the insolvent delbtor's effects, before any other debtor.
To this privilege however the United States superadd the
advantage, which the 'law always allows to vigilance in the pursuit of delits.- On the 11th of' March 18Q6 they obtained judg-,
ment against Thomson; on the 13th of that month and year
issued theirfi.fa., and on the 15th levied it on the ships and
cargoes, whose proceeds are in question. Such legal and equitable positions are immoveable by any mere .d otor: the defendants in error must show that Thomson had no property in
the goods levied upon as his, but that it was transferred beforehand to them. This burthen ofproof they undertake, and to dislodge the public" priority and possession, by proving property
out of Thomson, and in the Insurance Company. They claim
to be, if not owners, at least creditors with qualified property by
specific lien; having loaned money on resondentiabonas secured by assignments, endorsed on the outward bills of lading.
Use, disposition, risk, profit and loss, in short all ownership,
real and ostensible, remained in Thomson throughout. The
vessels were far at sea when the loans were made, so that it was
physically impossible to appropriate the parts affected to the
several loans. All the homeward documents were addressed under seal to Thomson, and nothing but a secret mark on one set
of the double papers, enabled the assignees to deliver the respective parcels, which were levied- upon by the executions of
the United States, when thus symbolically and conjecturally
appropriated. The contract between the .Insurance Company
and Thomson is to be gathered from the bond, the annexed
memorandum, and the assignment on the outward bill of lading, all considered together as one instrument. The bond does
not contain a single word or indication of transfer of property
or specific lien, but the contrary; and it is well settled that a
r1espondentia bond creates no lien, but only gives personal security. 4 East, 319, Busk vs. Fearon. 'The United States vs. The
Delaware Insurance Company, MS. The memorandum annexed to the bond, is a caveat against the idea of p'roperty, which
the lenders repel. The assignment on the bill of lading is cautiously qualified and referential, relying upon the memorandum
for the meaning of the parties. By all these instruments, taken
either together or separately, there is no unqualified transfer
of property; no possession changed, the account and risk are
kept in the borrower; no consignment to the Ignders.who lend
their money on the promise of the borrower to place a blank
bill of lading in their hands after the voyage ends, and that and
then expressly, as no more than collateral security for the loam
SE
Vor. I;

402

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
The lenders-trust, the borrowers covenant, throughout-no
more. Usually in case of repondentialoans there is an unqualified assignment at home, and an unqualified consignment from
abroad, with separate letters of advice, orders and an entire
documentary possession in the lenders: whereas here, the lenders shun every indication of ownersliip or possession, which
are left with Thomson, to enable him by false appearances of
property to get credits for duties, which the Insurance Company thus evade liability for. The 62d section-of the Act of Congress, Laws of U. S. 3 Vol. 195, holds the coniignee liable for
the duties, notwithstanding any transfers. By clandestine transfer the lenders have a secret lien on these effects, without notice and registry, contravening all appearances, and inevitably
tempting to frauds. C=n an equitable right spring from so polluted a source ? Can the public priority be annulled by -such
an equity? By mortgage, the legal -title is transferred and so
registered. By pawn, the thing is deposited and thus possession changed. But in this case, all but a secret hold remained
with the borrdwer, as the very means with which to defraud the
revenue. Would Chancery compel performance-of such a contract? Would trover lie at common law for the property?
Courld the Insurance Company have takeii possession of it at
any time? Could not Thomson have ordered and sent it to Europe or Australasia, instead of Philadelphia? His obligation
was nothing but a mere executory promise to place a blank bill
of lading in the lender's hands, which promise they had no
means of compelling him to keep. Indeed, the consideration
for thiat promise was, a mere contingency, inasmuch as no debt
was due till the voyage ended: and then, by the bond, the lend:
ers stipulate to accept satisfactory security for payment; which
security, according to Arny's testimony, was always a mere
negotiable note from Thomson.
Such was the course of dealing uniformly. No instance ever
occurred of his placing the blank bill of lading in their hands.
Contracting that the returns should be consigned by Thomson's
foreign agent to his orders, was contracting that the property
should remain in him. Such is the universal and familiar effect
of such consignments, by which most of the large British shipments to this country are regulated. .bb. by Stor. 240. 1 I
Blac. 359. 1 9Yheat. 208, St Jose Indiano. 8 Cra. "253. 275, the
Venus. Ibid. 328, the Merrimack. Ibid. 354. 9 Cr. 1U, the
Frances. To which it may be added, that by Act of Congress
every .manifest must designate ownership by fixing the consignee. Section 913d of the Duty Act, 3 1o7L Laws U. S. 158.
All bills of lading must conform to the manifest, section 30th
of the same Act, p. 166; and the property, as fixed in the consignee, remains in him notwithstanding any transfer; section

JANJARY TERM, 1828.

403

(Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
69.d of the same Act, p. 195. Indeed it is a principle of universal law, that possession of chattels must accompany property,
1 W5ils. 260. Ryall vs. Roll. 2 T. B. 587, Edwkrds vs. Harben.
1 Cra. S16, Hamilton vs. Russel. Secret liens and clandestine
titles, are destructive of that free mutation of property which
is vital to commerce. It is not denied that property at sea may
be transferred by the documents. But the question here is
whether a secret title, which disowns property till third persons are involved, may be construed into force, in order to frustrate fair claims. In Coxe vs. Harden, 4 East, 241, the Frances,
8 Cra. 335, and Potter vs. Lansing, I-Johku. 215, it is said, that
even the account and risk, are strongly indicative of the property. In the case of the United States vs. The Delaware
Insurance Company, C. C. U. S. Pen, D., it was adjudged that
a bill of lading does not transfer the property, but merely gives
a right to demand it; and that a bill to order or in blank continues the property in the shipper till a consignee takes lawful
possession of it. The argunient for the United States, far from
any encroachment on the settled doctrines of'commercial law
or the common law, labours, on the contrary, to uphold them
against a perilous innovation by construction. Furthermore:
Was not the question of property for the jury to determine?
The wr.1 ten instruments on which the Court determined the
question arm no more than evidential of the parties' intention,
which was a matter of fact. Such was the use made of similar
written instruments in the analogous cases of 1ibbert vs. CarLeri 1 T'. R. 748, HaiJle vs. Smith, 1 B 4-'P. 563, Barrow vs.
Coles, 3 Lampb. 92, Dyer vs. Pearson, 3 B. 4- C. 38, Maryland
Insurance Company vs. Rudens, 6 Cra. 338, and Blagg vs. The
Phoenix Insurance Company, S Wash. C. C. Rep. 5. In all
these cases, the Court left the property as-a fact for the jury to
ascertain.
But conceding, for argument's sake, that this is'a cdse of
equitable lien or special -property, that does not supplant the
public priority. The lien of a judgment certainly does not. 2
Wheat. 396, Thelusson vs. Smith. What more, ir this inquiry, is a special than a general lien? Either claim is but a debt
secured by a pledge; qpd all debts are postponed to the public
privilege. The instruments relied upon, all mention collateral
security, which is only title to the property, not in it:.not lkke
a mortgage, which transfers the legal right, and leaves but an
equity of redemption. There was no right to take possession,
much less any possession given by these documents. The
general lien of a judgment gives the right of taking po~secsion
by means of execution' but the right in question was no more
than a right of action, which the creditor had as much without it. The three exceptions stated by the Court to the gene

404

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
ral rule laid 'down in Thelusson v8. Smith, are all possessory,
viz: sale with delivery, executions executed, and mortgage.
All liens are possessory--enforceable without suit. Liens or
freight, general balance of factors, auctioneers, attorneys, carriers, tradesmen, materialmen, for purchase money; all depend in haviag hold of the thing liable to the lien; but none of
them give a property in it. Indeed the legal understanding of
lien and of property, are inconsistent with each other. Loss or
gain do not affect the lien holder, but the owner of the property; to whom also, any surplus belongs after satisfying the lien
debt. InBlaine vs. the ship Charles Carter, 4Cra. 390, the Court
say that a bottomry bond gives no interest in the ship, but a
claim upon her, which may be enforced with the despatch of admiraltyprodess. In Seamanvs. Loring, 1 Mae. 139,Judge Storyconsiders it of the very essence of a lien on goods that possession
accompany it. In Haille vs. Smith,,1 B. 4- P. 56S, C. J. Eyre
says, the goods were set apart to remain'in deposit, from which
moment the property was changed. Hibbert vs. Carter, 1 T.
R. 745, and Lemprierd vs. Pasley, 2 T. R. 485, turned on the
right of possession. But a respondentiabond gives no lien 4
East, 319, Busk vs. Fearon. There is no lien for demurrage.
3 P. ef S. 205, Binley vs. Gladstone. 15 East, 547, Philips vs.
Rodie. 2 Rose 355 Exparte Heywood. In Hammonds vs.
*Baiclay, 2 East, 2S5, lien is defined to be a right to detain for
debt property placed in the creditor's possession. In Lickbarrow vs. Mason, 6 East, 25, it is called -a qualified right to be
exercised over another's property. In Wilson vs. Balfour 2
C mp. 579 itis defined a right to hold. In Hallet vs. Bausfihld,
18 kez. 188, it is called the right of a party having p6ssession
to retain it. -In Heywood vs. Waring, 4 Campb. 291, a right
to hold. In Wilson vs. Heathen, 4 Taunt. 642, lien, or the
right to hold, is contradistinguished from pledge, which is said
to be matter of special contract. Lien is no more than a right
of set off, being the same in equity as at law, 2 T. B. 492, Lempriere vs. Pasley. It is a claim with possession, either personal, as by bond, covenant or contract; or real, as by judgment,
statute, or recognisance. Termes de ]aLey 427. It is a right
in rkm but not ad rem: a claim, with hold, but without property, in the thing held.
Justice and necessity originated liens. Policy and convenience
have increased them. But of late Courts lean against them, and
will not add to their number or extent, 7 East, 299, Rushforth
vs. Hadfield. No Court in England has acknowledged a new instance of lien for the last twenty years, 9 East,426. The civil law
abounds with liens, therein termed privileges; that is,prior rights
of payment; such as the lien of the state fo-"its debts, the lien of'
mechanics and workmen, and of lenders of money, Wfood's Inst.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

405

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

C90. The -common law, the admiralty law, and .Ae-statute
law, are familiar with various liens. The right of landloas to
distrain may be considered a lieu. 'But these privileged claims,
though all specific, and affecting the .property (with notice) in
all hands, wherever transmitted, were never held to give or
change property. Its risk, diminution, enhancement, and disposition, are all the debtors, not the creditors; at the debtor's
death, it is his ass.As. If Thomson had died when he became
insolvent his administrators would have taken the fund in dispute, and must have paid the proceeds to the United States. 2
Cra. 390, Fisher vs. Blight.
The whole question tutrs on the possession; for without
possession there can be no lien. Jones vs. Pearle, Stra.556. Bx
parte Shank, I dtk. 254i Kruger vs. Wilcox, odmbl. 252. Doug.
97, M'Coombie vs. Davis,'7.East,.5. Now possession, once parted with, puts an end to lien, Sweet vs. Pym, 1 Bast, 4. Indeed
actual possession, -withoutthe assertion of legal right to it, is of
no avail, 4 Wheat. 438, The General Smith--And slight, circumstances will be laid hold of to show that the creditor does
not rely on lien, 12.'Fheat. 611, Ramsey vs. Allegre. No possession was ever taken of asserted by thp Atlantic Insurance
Company. They repudiated it, together with every sigh of
ownership, lest they should be called on for the duties.' They
were content to be creditors *ith mere hypothecation, without
deposite or pawn, 2 Black. Com." 159. Whether even pawn
gives property, is doubtful: but it is unquestionable, that hypothecatidn doer not. The latter gives but right of action.
Wood"s Inst. 219, ch. 9, b. 3. Poth. de bienf. Vol. 2. p. 355.
Nantisseent, ch. 1. art. 1. sec. 2- True, ships- at sea may be
delivered by bill of sale ex necessitate, 2 T. R. 462, Atkinson
vs. Maling; and cargoes, may change hands by the documents.
But without delivery of some kind, the whole is fraudulent and
void. Ryall vs. Rolle, 1 Mis. 260, and, 1 dttk. 167. Brown vs.
Iieathcote, 1 .dtk. 160. Falkener vs. Case, I Br. 125. In this
ease, Kenyon gave up the ships because not delivered. See bi
argument in Lempriere vs. Pasley, 2 T. R. 485,496. By the
civil law, a chattel cannot be hypothecated or mortgaged. And
as between the stat-and a creditor by hypothecation, the publit privilege prevails. Dormat, b. 3 Tit. 1. sec. 2. p. 356-7.
In the case of the Frances, 8 Cra. 418, it was settled that liens
for loans, advances, general balance, or any thing but freig±.
yield to the pre-eminent law of prize; which is as near as may
be the principle in question. It has also been adjudged that the
lien of a foreign attachment, by which the thing aitached -s taken into possession, is superseded by the public pgiority, 5
Cra. 9.89. Harrison vs. Sterry-2 S. §" R. 221, Willing vs.
Bleecher. In Thelusson vs..Smith, the Court, though they men-

406

SUPREME COURI.
(Conard tw. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

tion mortgage as an exception to the general rule, yet do so
only, ob6ter, nor has it ever been adjudged that even a mortgage will dislodge the public prioity. No lien is pretended
or it. But an equitable title to these funds, much better founded
in justice than that of the Insurance Company, whoge asserted
lien, without possession or property, is a mischievous taint secretly affecting the right to the fund, and most disastrous in
its influence on free and fair circulation. To sustain it judicial legislation must add to the catalogue and character of
liens, and abrogate the Act of Congress providing for the public priority.
The three first divisions of the charge, affrm the bonds.in
question, whose validity is denied either as respondentiabo'nds,
or bona fide obligations. They were executed long after the
ships and cargoes were at sea, not predicated of any maritime
necessity, to make provision for foreign voyages; but were part
of a general scheme of gambling and usurious speculation. In
form, character and substance they differ from all respondentia
bonds heretofore known.- 2 Marsh. on Ins. 827. 8 8. 4- R. 188.
The Pennsylvania Insurance Company vs. Duzal. It is said i4
the (Donsolatodel Mare, that Demosthenes gives us the form ot
arespondentiabond, precisely as used ever since. Boucher'8Tramlat. I vol. I ch. 6. And the principles and regulations of the
Roman pecunia trajectitit, are familiarized by abundant publications. From no source of legitimate information, can such a
contract as the present derive support. All the English authorities, Molloy, Beawes; Weskett, Postlewaite and Park, like
the Roman law, concur in considering res'pondentialoans, as to
begin bWfore the voyage begins, and to be warranted only by
its necessities. Roccus is explicit to the same point. -Ingers.
7.anslat. Wte 75, p. 136. Pothier does not notice the distinction. Emeigon and Valin, may perhaps be quoted as contrary,
and MarshaU inclines to their opinion. 2 Marsh. on Ins. 747.
Bynkershoek's well' known'chapter on this subject, also leaves
his opinion in doubt. Quet. jur.priv.lib. 3. ch. 16. But the origin and reason of the contract, argue conclusively the necessity
of confining it to loans before the voyage begins, and to make it
begin. Otherwise, as in this instance, the loan never was at
risque, ior at sea at all, nor were any purchases made abroad
with the proceeds of it.. Though the terms of the bond are at
-and from Philadelphia, yet the money was not loaned till the
vessels were half way to China: and it will be as lawful to borrow money on respondentia after ihe vessel's return as before
her departure if such devices are sanctioned. They are mere
wagers withoutinterest. The vessels, cargoes,voyages, and risk&,
togeiher with the ocean, and the foreign destination, are mere
dramatic suppositions. No risk was run to justify marine in-

JANUARY TERM, 182.

407

(Conard tw. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
terest. By the original doctrine, the lender at marine interest
accompanied. the loan in the vessel and superintended its returns: and so he must now; not perhaps in person, the improvements in modern navigation have rendered his actual presence
unnecessary-but by correspondence, documents, foreign agents,
supercargoes, self-appropriated consignments, and all the securities which have attended every reandentialoan, till these innovations were attempted.- Without such precaution it is mere
trust, without other than personal security. In France every
respontdentiacontract, must be registered within ten days on pain
of-nullity. The whole ground of respondentia is encroached on
the common law; and Courts of Justice should look well to the
landmarks, which none butlegislators should change; and they
cautiously, if at all. Otherwise, all the gambling adventures of
profligate speculation, will be legalized, all the wholesome restraints on usury abated. There can be no marine interesf
without, fir.t, absolute need; secondly, a want of all other 'means
of supply; thirdly, it must clearly appear that the lean *as applied to the very voyage created by it; and lastly, there must
be a sea voyage in which that very loan is risked. It , is all
strictiseirnijuris.Now therd was no consideration for this loan
till the voyage ended, till when the lenders insured the borrowers against all sea risks- and those risks were half run before the 'loan was made. By the law of New-York, which governs this contract, the slightest infusion of usury vitiates and
annuls the whole contract. 3 Johns. Cas. 66, 206. Wilkie Vs.
Rosevdlt. 2 Cow.. 678. N. Y. Firemen's Ins. Co. vs. Ely. lb. 712,.
Bank of Utica v8. Wager. lb. 770. Same vs. Smalley. It will
be said, that this was left as a question which the juryhave settled. The reply is, that though that may be so, yet the Court
should have also left it to the jury to determine whether the
whole transaction was not a gambling and fraudulent speculation; of which the loan, bond, supposed sea risk, and marine in-'
terest, were but parts of the contrivance and collusion.
Of the points of evidence ruled, the 1st and 2d concern the
corporate existence of the company, which not having been
proved as usual, was allowed to be inferred from the circumstance of the collectoi's having accepted their bond, with the
approbation of the district attorney. But those officers cannot
give away the rights of the government; nor should their courtesy, at AlI eVents, be construed into such concession. The 4th,
5th,f6th, and 7th points respect evidence of fraud overruled, because it was not first brought home to the Insurance Company.
The plai'ntiff in error strove to prove the jvhole scheme, ,he
double papers, falsified manifests, altered letters-in short all
the frudulent manceuvres; conceiving it competent to connect
the company with these acts, either afterwards or inferentially.

SUPREME COURT
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
of which the jury were. to determine. Lastly the attempt to
prove what became of the money loaned, after proof that none
of it went to Thomson's pocket, was also deemed proper as part
of the whole retum gestarum, for the consideration of the jury.
Binney for the defendants in error.The record presents questions of very different degrees of
importance,,some of them being without the least influence on
the final decision of the cause, while others must decisively rule
this controversy, as they will also rule other suits now depending, and an immense amount of property. The same time and
attention are not to be given teA these unequal questions; but
some attention is due to the least, since the counsel'for the
United States have raised them for discussion.
It is proper first to dispose of those which have no connexion
with the merits of this controversy -tle exceptions to evidence
admittedand rejected.
1. Overruling an exception by the defendants' counsel, to a
question by the plaintiffs to their witness Mr. Sands, as to his
agency in their behalf. The question was merely introductory
to the inquiry, whether he had not delivered 'the bond of 9th
October 189.6"to the District attorney. But had his agency
been a material fact, he was competent to prove it. There was
nothing to show that his power was conferred by writing, nor
was it necessary that it should have been so conferred. A corporation may create an agent by parol, and the agent may prove
O-aees, 38. Bank of Columbia vs.
it. Mifflin vs. Nicholson, 2
Patterson's Administrators, 7' Cranch, 308. Bank of the United States vs. Dandridge, 10 W7eat. 69.
2. -The objection to evidence of the respondentiabond, because the cbrporate capacitylwas not proved, was contrary to
the agreement on which the suit was brought. The United
States were precluded from questioning the plaintiff's right to
sue as a corporation. They compelled the plaintiffs so to sue,
and took their bond under their corporate name and seal to insure the suit. -The cases of Henriques vs. The Dutch E. I.
Co. Ld.'Ray. 1 535, and Duchess Manufactory vs. Davis, 14
Johns. 238, are analogous. The arrangement was at leastprima fade evidence of charter, upon this trial, between these parties. The objection under any circumstances would have been
without weight-for it was a mere question of the order of
proof, which the Court was competent to regulate at its pleasure. The'.b6nd might as well be proved before the charter,
as the charter before the bond.
3. That the bond was well proved, as the several bond of
Thomson, admits of no doubt, unless if i's meant to question the
proof, because the witness swore to the signing, and, not to
the sealing. But, as the bond purported to be sealed and deliver-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

40D

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
ed, proof of signing was sufficient to go to thxe jury. Talbot vs.
I Iodson, 7 Taunt. 251. Curtin vs. Hill, 1 Southard, 148. Long
vs. Ramsay, 1 Serg. 4- Rawl. 7_. Phill. pn Evid. 413.
4. Overruling the question in regard to the application of the
money loaned upon the Addison, was in conformity with settled
law. The question of application by the borrower, did not concern the lender, by the principles of either the common or the
maritime law. By the comamon law, the borrower was competent to dispose of it at his pleasure. The. application of a loan
does not affect either the debt or the security given for it The
maritime law, as to this species of l6an, is the same. The doctrine of application arises only where the master hypothecates,
not where the owner bottonries, or borrows on respondentia.
Even in the former case, though a necessity for the advance
must be shown, the application does not concern the lender;
unless there be a misapplication by collusion with him, or with
his privity. 2 Ernerig. 440, 502. 562. 1 Talin, 454. 2 Valin, 9.
art. 7. Pothier. 257. Canzanares vs. Brig St. Trinidad, HopL.
.,dm. Dec. s5. The Jane, Dodson, 465.
-5. The remaining exceptions to the rejection of evidence,
may be dismissed with the remark, that the offereo testimony
concerned the acts and declarations of persons, between whom
and the plaintiffs there was no privity, and after the plaintiffs'
title had accrued.
The more material exceptions concern the charge of the Court,
in which are to be found the principles of law, by which the
title of the plaintiffs to the property in question, is to be maintained.
The cause turns upon the decision of the Court, that a contract of insurance loan made with the owner of merchandise,
afler it has departedon a voyage, and ieser.ving a marine inferest,
is not invalid; for that cause, as a marine contract; neither is it
so, if it be a renewal of a previous loan of the sane nature; and
that if there was neither gambling, usury, nor fraud, but the
transaction was fair, and there was a real risk, the papers in
question created a trust in the specie outward and in the proceeds homeward, for. payment of the loan, which gave the
plaintiffs a title superior to the priority asserted for the United
States.
Under the facts submitted to the jury, who by their verdict
have negatived all actual fraud, gambling, and usury, and have
affirmed the reality of the risk, and the fairness of the entire
transaction, it is contended that these contracts were valid, and
passed an effectual title to thie property. 1. By the common law.
S. By the maritime law.
1. By the common law. Without -.z present giving a name
to these contracts it may be safely asserted, that all their eleVoL.1.
3 F

410

SUPREME COURT.

(Coiard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
ments are sanctioned by well settled principles. The contracts
involve an advance of .money at a premium beyond the rate of
the statute, dependent for its return on the result of a real risk,
-a risk in which th6 borrower had an ibterest to the whole
extent of the foan,-an assignment of 'the goods at risk, to secure the payment of principal and interest on the happening
of a contingency,-and a continuance of the actual possession
of the goods assigned with the agents of the borrowers,'until
the purposes of their employment were answered, and they re-.
turned within the reach of the lender. All these features of the
contract, are of' indisputable legality and efficacy.
The excess of the premium, beyond the rate of the statute, has
the sanction of the law, as the return of theprincipal,and not that
.of the interest only, depended upon a real and nota colourable
contingency. Notwithstanding the dispositions of the Courts
of Westminster Hall to enforce, the statute of usury, it has
been settled with the most harmonious consent, that if the prin'cipaland
interest of the loan be at hazard upon a real contingency, it is not a case for the imputation of usury. Mastin vs.
Abdee, 1 Shw. 8. Sharpley vs. Hurrell, Cro. Jtm 209. Roberts
,vs. Tremayne, Cro. Jac. 50. Redingfield vs. Ashley, Cro. Bliz.
741.. Sdyer vs. Glenn, 1 Lev. 54. Appleton vs. Brian, 1 Keble,
711. Murray vs. Harding, W. Black. 859. 8 Wils. 390, S. 0.
It is on this principle that contracts of post obit and annuity
are allowed. Battey vs. Lloyd, 1 Vern. 141. 2 Bqu. A~br. 275.
Chesterfield'vs. Jansen, 1 .dlk. 301. Such cases are not contracts of loan, but of insurance on hazard.' They are placed
by the civil law in the class of aleatory contracts. They may
be gambling, but cannot be usurious.
In this case they were not gambling, because the borrower
had an interest in the risk to the whole extent of the loan. This
relievesthe Court from the embarrassment, that would attend
a gambling insurance. In New-York, where the contract was
:made, such a wager is lawful. Clendenning vs. Clark, 3 Caines,
141. They follow the English doctrine, prioi to the 19 G. 2.
c. ST. Crawford vs. Hunter, 8, T. R. 28. Massachusetts is
the other way; Amory vs. Gilman, 2 Mass. 1; and Pennsylvania agrees with her. Pritchet vs. Ins. Co. N. A. S Yeates,
461.
The assignment of a security for the repayment of the advice and interest on the happening of the contin'gency, has
been seriously questioned on the very ground of the contingency. There is no autherity for this. Security may be given as
well for a contingent, as for a certain debt. It does not change
the nature of the hazard or of the loan. The assignment transfers the title to a chattel, as a collateral security for the performance of the borrower's duty, if the goods escape the hazard;

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

411

(Conard vs. The Atlautic Insurance Company.)
and this has the sanction of law in analogous cases. It is of
the very nature of bottomry or hypothecation to give a mortgage
upon the vessel; yet it is upon the contingency of her safety,
that the loan is made returnable. The same is true of respamdentia, by the law of France. Analogous securities have been
given in England without question. Redingfield vs. Ashley,
Cro. Bliz. 741. Batty vs. Lloyd, 1 TVern. 141. The lender is
not obliged to run the risk of the borrower's insolvency, as
well as of the seas.
The property in the goods was transferred by the assignments on the bills of lading, without 7delivery of actual possession, which was neither according to the agreement, nor.within the power of the parties before the arrival in Philadelphia.
They are assignments in trust on- their face, according to the
agreement, and are therefore honest assignments, as they tell
the wh • truth. The counsel for the United States think they
should ,.,ve been unqualified or absolute, and that they are vi-.
tiated by the account and risk continuingTor Thomson. Had
the assignment been absolute, on its face, there must have been.
a purchase, or a secret trust, The lenders did not mean to be
the absolute owners, nor to concead their interest. The account
and risk, were to continue in Thomson, for his was to be the
profit nd. loss; and the property was to be in the company in
trdst, for securing the debt. This was precisely Haille vs.
Smith. 1 Bo8. S Pull.57b. It is perfectly immaterial -0hethbr
the assignments passed an equitable or a legal title. The Circuit Court thought it an equitable title only; and it certainly
was a title, that an endorsement of the bill of lading by the supercargo to a bona fide purchaser, would have d~featpd. This*
however is owing to the confidence which the law,, for the sake
of commerce, authorizes a purchaser to place in this document,
and not because the assignment passes the equitable title. The
weight of-authority and principle are in favoUr of its passing a
legal title to the specie outward, and to the retukns. 2 Holt on
,S'lpp. 72. Meyer vs. Sharpe 5 Taunt. 80. Giles vs. -Nathan,
5 Taunt. 558. Beyond doubt no substantial property was left
in Thomson,.tlYiat any creditor could obtain by administration,
assignment, orexecution, except the resulting or remaining interest, after satisfaction-of the bond. Whether this was legal
or equitable it is needless further to inquire.
The non-delivery ofpossession was, under the circumstances,
of no effect. It was iot intended to be taken by the borrower.
unttil the voyage was at an end. This appears by.the memorandum of the agreement, and answers the objection. The
possession of chattels by the assignor or his agents, after an assignment which provides for such a possession, is per se no objection: the possession is afcordinw to the deed. If the decd.

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlanti Insurance Company.)
be absolute, and purport to transfer the possession, the impossibility of taking it, by its absence at sea, or for any other
cause, is an answer to the presumption of fraud, that might
otherwise arise. . Cole vs Davis, 1 Lord Ray. 724. Meggott
vs. lrllls 1 Lord Bay. 286. Brown vs. Heathcot, 1 dtk. 160.
Flyn vs. Mathews,' ./)tk. 185. Atkinson vs. Maybury, 2 T. R.
x parte Batson, 5 Bro. C. 0,, 362. Coote on Mortgages,
462.
063-4 In this case there was both a provision for possession by
the agents of Thomson, until the return, of the adventure to the
United States, and an impossibility of taking possession, had
the agreement called for it. It is in all respects the same case
as Bucknel vs. Royston, Prec. Chan.289, in which the title of a
lender on a similar assignment for security, was traced through
successive voyages, sales, and shipments, during several years,
and enforced against the personal representative of the borrower.
It was not for the Court to let the, jury decide the question
of property, as inferable from the fact of possession. The fact
of possession did not stand alone, but was governed by written
instruments which legally made that fact of no. importance.
The jury were not prevented from deciding the question of
fraud, as connected with the fact of possession, but they were
deprived of tie right of inferring it from mere want of posseslaw, that under such circumstances
a question of
it was agreement,
sion, because
of inability,
and contingent debt, possession
by the assignor, was not per se a badge of fraud.
The property then being passed to us, and passed as openly
as transfers of chattels at sea are ever made, it is submitted.that
the priority acts do not affect us. The case is not placed by the
Circuit Court on the ground of lien; it need not be, so placed
in this Court. It is of no importance whether a general, or even
specific lien, will prevail against the priority of the United
States. Thelluson vs. Smith, 2 Wheat. 426, is a difficult case.
The -case of a master with the possession of goods and his lien
for their freight, the possession and lien of a factor for his advances and-commissions, would be mere difficult, if it be true
that the priority of the United States is to defeat these securities. This it is apprehended will never be decided. The United States have no rights but as a creditor. They derived nothing from their execution and -levy on these teas. If they were
not ours by the assignment on the hill of lading, they passed to
Thomson's general assignees by his assignment of the 19th Novsmber 1825. TheUnited States can claim only as a creditor,
against the assignees who are trustees for all the creditors, and.
for te g6vernment first before all; but what the assignees cannot overthrow, be it specific, or be it general lien, is secure
against the government. For the present cause this discussion

JANUARY TERM, I8-.8.

413

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
is however unnecessary; for here is more than lien of the highest kind; a transfer and conveyance of property, by terms of
grant of the most decisive importj-.a mortgage or (teed of
trust, upon the efficacy of which to exclude the priority of the
United States, this Court have already. passed their judgment
in The United States vs. Hooe, 3 Crancl, 73. It is a security
saved also by Thelluson vs. Smith. There can be no difference
between a mortgage)of chattels and one of land.
Thus stands the case on the principles of the common law.
But the ,point mainly and almost exclusively pressed below,
was, that although this might be so according to the rules of
the common law, yet that these were loans at marine interest,
a technical contract, which the maritime or Universal law did
not permit, under the circumstances of this case. On the contrary, it is submitted that9-Thbse contracts are equally effectual by the maritime and

universal law.
The objections urged against them are two: 1. That both the
loans were made upon goods already atrisk by the departure
of the ships: 9.That the loan by the Superior was applied to
pay a former loan, or was in other words a renewed loan.
1. The first objection is supposed to be derived from the
Roman law, which it is suggested limited this contract under
the nime ofpecunia trajectitia,to such loans as were themselves
to be transported, or were applied to purchase goodsifor transportation. The language of the digest is, "trajectitiaea pecunia.
est qum' trahs nare vehitur. Cetertm si eodem loci consvrmatur,
non erittrajectitia.Sedvidendum, an merces ex eapecuniacomparaZw, in ea eauia habeantur; et interest, utrum etiam ssexpericulo
creditorisnavigent, tunc enim trajectitiafiecuniafit.': Digest lib,
29. lit. 2.
The Roman law upon this subject is misalprehended. Whatever is said upon this subject in ihe Code, the foundation of that
law, is as a regulation of the rate of interest without any deli.
nition of the contract, or any limitation of it. Any contract at-tended by the risk of transportation by sea, was within its prin..
ciple. That which the D gest contains in regard to itis not a
limitation but an illustration of the contract; and both'in the
Digest and Novels, the illustrations given show that the asserted
limitation was unknowfi tQ the Roman law, and that any loan
dependent for repayment upon the safety of goods at risk, was
within the rule of pecunia tra'ectitia.
The Code under the title- de Usuris, does not define the contract, but limits the parties in trajectitiiscontractibus,to 12 per
cent. as the maximum interest. Under the title denauticofaiiore.
itdoes not describe what shall not be a contractustrajectitius.
but it defines the events in which maritime interest shall cease.

bUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
or shall not accrue, arid in what event the creditor shall lose his
money, or shall receive it though the goods be lost. The subject is left here by the Code.
The description of the cbntract is first .given in the Digest,
from the works of the civil lawyers. The passage above cited
is taken from Modestinus, who was of opinion that the principle of the code in regard to pecunia t'aectitia,was applicable to
a case in which the merchandise bought with the loan, was
transported by sea at the risk of the lender. But the distinction in tie view of the Digest was not between goods bought,
and goods not bought with the loan, but between a loan on
goods transported at the risk of the lender, and a loan without
any risk whatever: for this is the only sensible distinction in a
title of the law which had reference to the rate of interest. It
is accordingly made plain by the opinion of &ckvoa,Digest, Lib.

29-2.tit. 2. s&. 5. Periculipretiumest, et si conditione quamvis
penali non existente recepturus sis quod dederis, et insuper
*aliquid printer pecuniam, Isi modo in alem speciem non cadat:
veliuti ea, ex quibus condition~s nasci solent, ut si manumittas,
si non illudfacias, si'nonconvaluero, et catera. Nec dubitabis,
si piscatori erogaturo in apparatum, plurimum pecunix dederim, ut'si yepiaset, redderet; et athleta, unde se exhiberet, exerceretque, ut si vieisset, redderet. If a contract by an alete to
. return a loan with its interest, upon his gaining the prize, was
within the rule of a contractus trajectitius,as is here asserted, it
is obvious that this rule comprehended a loan on goods already
exposed to the risk of the sea. The same is equally obvious from
the language of Paulus. Dig. lib. 2. tit. 2. sec. 6. Fxnerator,
pecuniam usuris maritimis mutuam dando, quasdam merces in
nave pignori accepit; ex quibus, si non potuisset totum debitum
exsolvi, aliarum mercium alfis navibus impositarum, propriisque faneratoribus obligatarum, squid superfuisset, pignori accepit. The question he asks, and answers in the negative, is
whether the goods being lost on which the creditor loaned specifically, and being of value equal to the loan, he could resort
to the'surplhs of the other loans, for. repayment; and nothing
can show more decisively the practice of loaning on goods generally, after the modern practice, 'than sucgh a question.
The custom of merchants in the time of Justinian without
doubt embraced resgondentialoans for successive voyages, where
the goods were repeatedly changed. Novel 106. In this Constitution of the Emperor the practice is detailed at length,
and confirmed. Such a practice shows that the transportation of the specific loan, or of the specific goods bought with
it, was no necessary part of the Roman law of retpondentia.
The just inference is, that it is only the element of the contract that i' stated in the Digest, and not its limilationm, name-

JANUARY TERM; 1828.

415

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
ly, that the goods, on the security of which, or for which, the
loan is made, shall be at the risk of the lender; but not that they
should be the specific loan, or its investment.
The practice of modern nations is free from all obscurity on
this head. They sanction, with great harmony, respondentia
loans made after the goods are at risk. Upon this point the
two distinguished commentators, Valin and Emerigon agree.
The lifference between them is upon an independent point,
ivhether a loan made after the departure of the goods, is attended by a riglht to participate with prior loans, as if all the lenders
were co-mortgagees-a question of no application in this cause.
a Emerig. 382, 385, 386, 484. 1 Valin, 366. 2 Marsh. 747. a.
2 Emerig. 401.
2. That a renewed loan, like that by the Superior, is free
from objection, is clear from many authorities precisely to the
point. 2 .Emerig. 573. Pothier, 259. 2 Valn, 11, 12. Le Guidon,
87. ch. 19. Ordenanzas de Bilbao, c.
3. Code de Commerce,,
Aqrt. 323.
A shorter answer to both these objections, is that the law
of respontlentia loans, is not a. universal law. The contract is
not one of universal nature and -form, but depending upon the
pleasure of the parties, and varying in different countries, according to the prevalent sense of expediency, and the principles of the code of particular law there in force. 4 East, S19.
Bush vs. Fearon. 8 Mass. 348, Appleton vs. Crowninshield.
No statute in this country restrains it; it is a beneficial contract; and -all its provisions being sanctioned by the common
law, that law alone is the standard of the contract in this
Court.
Mr. Binney concluded his argument, by applying the principles contended forio the specific points of the Court's charge.
Mr. Webster, also for the'defendants.
The question in this case is important, but perhaps not difficult. The transaction out of which it arises, is one of a commercial character. The United States are large creditors of
Edward Thomson, and they have no other hope of attaining
payment but from success in this case. But the character
of the case is not altered by this circumstance; as the defendants are not answetable for the frauds of -the debtor to the
United States, nor for the neglect of the officers of the cus- toms. .They had no connexion with the custom house, in the
course of the transaction now before the Court. Nor is there
any thing in the argument that the defendants have other security for the debt due to them, by a resort to the co-obligors
on the respondentiabond; all those persons are insolvent; and
if they were not, the defendants assert, as they of right may dov
their claim to their own property.

416

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
The United States are said to be privileged creditors. They
are so, as far as the law goes, but no further. In this case
they have no privileges, and they stand in relation to the property in controversy, like any Other execution creditors of their
debtor.
Thomson assigned in November 1825. All he had passed to
his assignees, and the priority of the United States exists only
to payment out of the fund which passed to the assignees.
The la'w of the United States gives an action against the assignees, but it does not prevent the property froni.passing under the assignment.
What is the priority which the statute gives to the United
States? It is not a prerogative, superseding the titles of others
to property. It does not extend the rights of creditors on property. It is, what it purports to be, a priority among creditors, a right of first payment out of the common fund. The
United States are creditors, and at the head of the list; they
are primi inter pares; and no more.
Two propositions may be- maintained; First. The priority
does not affect the transfer of property at all. It never attaches on lands or goods, as lands or goods of this debtor. It arises
only:
1st. In bankruptcy--2d. In cases of conveyances to assignees-Sd. Against executors and administrators-and in all
those three cases, it attaches in the fund, and not on the specific property.
It does not operate to prevent the passing of the property either to assignees in bankruptcy; or to assignees under a conveyance; or to executors and administrators. It amounts only
to a right to previous payment out of the fund then in the
hands of others.
The language of the statute, sect. 65, fully establishes those
positions-assignees in bankruptcy-assignees in insolvency
and- executors and administrators, are. all "ranked together.
What is law for the one, is law for all. The words are "the
United States shall be first satisfied ;" obviously out of the
estate. The provision, -making the persons holding the estate
personally liable, is then introduced to operate in the event of
their not satisfying the debt of the United States, out of the
estate of the debtor.
Now, will it be contended that in regular bankruptcy, the
United States could levy on property which had passed' to the
assignees, or that this could be done on the estates of insolvents,
or of deceased persons in the hands of trustees, or executors?
The correlative words of the statute, in which priority is given
to the surety who pays the debt due to the United States are,
that he is tQ be paid ' out of the estate and effects of such insol-

IANU .RY TERM, 1828.

417

(Conard m. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
vent, or deceased person." These words coitfirm the construetionassumed for the defendants.
The 63d section of the bankrupt Act of 1799, ch. 4, also confirms this construction. ,It makes no new- provision; but declares the payment shall be made out of the fund, and refers to
the previously existing Act. "
It is plain, upon the fair construction of the statute, that it is
priority on the fund. It says the right shall eist, when the
debtor has assignedhis property. This is a different thing from
saying, that his property has vested in the United States, and
shall not be deemed to have passed by the assignment.
It may also be well observed, that connecting the priority of
the United States, with executors or administrators, who can
only be responsible, for the property which may come into
their hands; and giving a personal action against assignees
in case of default in paying over the funds in their hands, are
conclusive evidence to show that the understanding of law is,
hat all the property of the debtor passes by the assignment.
There is no decided case in opposition to these principles,
unless that of Thelluson vs. Smith, may be so construed.
Few cases have been presented to the consideration of
Courts of the United States, upon this subject. They are:
1. Fisher vs. Blight, 2 Craneh, 358, which decides two
points. 1. That the priority extends to debtors, generally, under
the Act of March 3d 1797.-. That it is not in the nature of
alien on the property.
2. The United States vs. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73, which decides
1. That priority is not a lien, a principle always to be recollected-2. That to create a case, where in case of insolvency the
priority will attach, there must be an assignment of all the property of the debtor.
3. Prince vs. Bartlett, 8 Cranch,431, which decides that the in.solvency is not a mere inability to paybut must be some notorious Act.
4. The United States vs. Bryan & Woodcock, 9 Cranch, 377,
which only says the priority given by the Act of 1797, does n6t
apply to debts due before the passihg of the law.
The case of Thelblson vs. Smith, 2 Wh7eat. 396; does not apply to the present case. The sale which was made-by the
marshal of the United States, under the judgment against.Mi.
Crammond, was not objected to by the assignees. The point
was not made, and the assignic- 'tffered the estate to be turned
into money, and let the parties contend afterwards for their respective rights. It is obvious, that if the assignees had object
ed to the sale of the estate of Mr. Crammond by the marshal,
the sale could not have been nade. '
Suppose-the-assignees had sold 4he-4and? They 6ad tbe
VrL. I.
- -3 G

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard v. The Atlantic Insumrhce Company.)

power -to sell it, and it.might have been their duty to sell iLThey might have been rompelled to execute their trust; -and
they'had therefor6 a right to the fund. The execution therefore could only, in that case, have been levied on the land with
the assignees' consent.
9. The second proposition is, that notwithstanding the decision of the Court in Thelluson vs. Smith, it may be argued,
that the provisions of the law, which gives the priority, were
not intended to extend the general rights of creditors.
It will scarcely be claimed, that the United States can dislodge all !iens.- The case of freight-the advanceg of a factorinsurance brokers' accounts; cannot be supposed to be affected by the law.
The argument on the other side, is, that the assignees cannot, under the injunctions of the law, pay any debt, until the
United States are fully paid. This evidently is, that they are
to pay out of the~estate, in their hands.' Now what is the estate
of the debtor in the hands of the assignees? Not the land unembarrassed; but the lpnd subject to the liens upon it.
Again : assignees do not pay prior judgments in favour of
creditors. The judgment creditor proceeds against the land,
not against the assignees; and he obtains payment, not from
the assignees, but.from the fund raiied by a sale of the land,'
under-the execution. How is any other construction of the
law practicable ? The assignees take the property, subject to
the lien. Does it pass free of the lien or not, just as it may appea: the United, States are or are not creditors ? They may not
be named in the assignment at all.
Again, if the United States are creditors, does the property
pass free of all liens; and after paying the United States, go to
the other creditors?
It is true the casd of Thelluson vs. Smith is sufficient for the
defendants. It expressly saves the case of a mortgage.
Do the documents, or either of them, exhibited by the defendants, vest any interest in the outward cargoes of the vessels
named in them, in the defendants? It is contended that they
vest a clear legal interest in the outward cargo, mentioned in
the bill o 9 .lading. It should not be called the creationof a lien,
but the transfer of a legal interest in the cargo.
The bond creates no lien, it contains no words of positive conveyance. The assignment does; and by it the owner transfers
the property, This might have been done by other writings.
Property at sea may be legally sold; without endorsement of
the bill of lading. Strictly speaking, the evidence in this case
does not show an assignment of a bill of lading, such an assignment.being properly by the consigned; but it shows a

transfer of the goods, wiittga on the bill o] lading by the shipper,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

419

(Conardtvs.The Atlantic Insurance Company.),
and the adnitted owner. It passes the property; nor could the
consignee, by an assignment of the bill of lading, give the property to any other, because the bill carriesnotice of another ownership. Barrow vs. Coles, 3 Camp. 92.
A bill of lading is no more effectual to pass property than
any other instrument, except that it is negotiable.
. buyer
under it, for value, without notice, may hold against al1other
or intermediate rights.. 2 1t, 72.
Property in goods, shipped under a bill of lading, may be
transferred by delivery, to a third person,.without endorsement
of the bill of lading; and such transfer will be good, against all
the world, eicept the endors~r of a -bill of lading, for a valu'able consideration. 5 Taunton, 558. Ibid. 79. 759. 1 .1ar.233.
4 East, 211.
And the. property in goods, shipped under a bill of lading,
may be vested in-another without either delivery or endorsement
of the bill of lading; as, by an agreement between the ownerg of the goods, and third persons, either in the character of
creditors, or purchasers, accompanied by acts, vesting the
property in the goods in such persons. 3 Bast, 585. 4 Campbell, S1. 4 Bast, 211. 3 Chitty, 404. Ibid. ,50, 351.
This last case is thus-: "Vendor did not send bill of salebutagreed to deliv.er goods, vendee accepted bills f6r the purchase,
and before the arrival, sold the goods-and became bankrupt.
Held, that the.purchasei, could hold against the vendee.
Here then was a transfer of the interest of Thomson in the
specie, and strictly speaking, it was not a qualified, but- a
positive, direct, and absolute transfer, as is shown by the
wvbrds employed for the purpose. Its only limitation was the
specification of the object, for which it was made. It is a collateral security, and is just what it should be'; for if it had
appeared to bean absolute sale, when only security was intended, ,it
would have worn a badge of fraud. The eonveyance is
made to carry a lawful agreement into effect, and the words of
the assignment are full and clear, and are restrained only by
the designation'of the purpose.
It is hinted, that it is not to be taken as conceded, thyat, a
mortgage of personal chattels can stand against the United
States' priority.
The general principle is, that a mortgage of goods is 41ke a,
mortgage of lands. Where there is good faith, and the thing
is actually delivered, this position cannot be questioned, The
13th Eliz. ch. 5, applies both to goods and lands, and saves
both, if "made upon good consideration, and bona fide." It.
may obstruct 6reditors, or delay thexn,. andl yet be good. Meux
vs. Howell, 4 Bast, 1. 5 Jo/n. 258.
It is a strong proposition, that the priority of the, United
States is to override mortgaes of personal chaftels, It may be

420.

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
said to be al tiltra piinciple. Goods are mbrtgaged, and ships
are mortgaged, every day.' The rule, if it exist at all, inust
,be made general. It cannot apply only to those mortgages
where possession follows, for some mortgages do not allow
possession, and are goodwithoutit. Such adoctrineisalarming.
Was there a good consideration for the assignment of the
specie made by, Thoirson to the defendants?
Thomson was a borrower of the defendants' money..Hehad given a bond for it. Events might discharge him,but until'they did,
he was their debtor, and at the proper time, be must pay. This
was sufficient. United States vs. Hooe. S Wzeat. A similar
transfer of any other goods would have been equally available
to secure the bond.
There being a legal conveyance by the owners of the property to the defendants, it must be assailable on other grounds.
The first objection is, that the instrument was not a re&Pondentia bond, because the goods were already on board, and the
ship had sailed two months before the loan.
1 -1. To this it is answered, that there is no law requiring the
very goods and money to be put on board. The mode of transa'cting business of this kind has changed ; and when the money.
or goods may be on board, is now of no consequence. In the
very form of a respondentia bond, (2 Holt, 435,) the consideration is the acceptance of h bill of exchange at four"months.
2. No matter whether this' is a respondentia bond, or not.
There was a transfer of all the goods for a sufficient consideration.
Third. .The contract it is. said, was illegal, and, therefore,
every thing done to carry it into effect was void. It was illegal,
because it was usurious, and usurious, because 'the vessel had
sailed before the loan, and part of the risk and time was therefore gone.
The vessel, it is true, had sailed, but no information -had
heen received from her since her sailing; and the defendants
therefore bore all the risk from the wharf. There is no limit,
by law, to marine interest. 'If this was intended to be a bona
fule marine risk, it is not usurious, whether the premium be
high or low.
The next objection is, that the possession and appearance
of-property remained in Thomson.
The answer to this is, that the possession of the property
was in the master of the vessel. Property in the defendants
was shown by the papers. But, if this had not been the fact,
the consequences claimed by the United States would not follow. As between the defindants and' Thomson, the property
*had passed to the defendants, and no change was made by the
re-shipment; John R.Thomson at Canton being only an agent;
the rights of -the defendant could not be divested by any

JANUARY TERM, 18!28.

421

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance.Company.)
act of the consignees, a% he received the.property for the use
of the assignees or Edward Thomson; and when the shipment
was made in Canton, by the agent, the rghts of the defendants were perfect against Thomson, against creditors, and, all
others, but a bonafide purchaser. The result of this reasoning
is: The transfcr and assignment of goods at sea, by a proper
written instrument, for an adequate consideration, and in execution of a valid contract, gave the defendants a-legal interest
in the goods; and as this transfer was on the bill of lading, so
that nio title by endorsement of the bill could be attained against
the defendants, their title was indefeisible.
The title of the defendants was a legal title, the equitable interest remaining in Thomson. He was entitled to a piroper application of the proceeds, to,an account, and to profits, because
the shipment was for his account and risk.
When the vessel returned to the United States the legal title was in the defendants, before as well as after- the delivery
of the bills of lading. Their title was not derived from the
bills of lading but from an earlier source, and the delivery or
the bill of lading had no other effect but to identify the property, and to prevent any other title being acquired by purchase.
.under those bills.
No one claims the property under the bill of lading as purchaser. On the 19th of November the -bill of lading had not
changed the property, and it still was in the defendant§. It had
not, and could not have got back to Thomson, and therefore
could not pass to his assignees.
'he defendants had a right to claim this property against thiassignees. The United States could'not, as has been shown,
levy upon it; and if the United States could, for their priority
disregard the assignment, they are only prior creditors, and
as such had no right to the property. As if there I'ad not been
a general assignment, the general creditors could not levy upofi
.this property; so disregarding the assignment, if the United
States claim so to do, they as creditors could not levy on it. It
is contended that goods may be mortgaged, and if the transaction is bonafide, possession need not follow, if the bargain be
otherwise. Cook, 264, 4th class of his cases. Prec. in Chancery.
285. 1 Pick. )?ep. 389. !2'bid.607. 5 John. 258. 3 Caines, 166.
2 TtrmnR. 389. 10 ez. 139. 4 Bin. 258. Barrow vs. Paxoi.
5 John. 258. 8 ibid. 446. Craig vs. Ward, 9 bid. 197.' 15
Mass. 244.
Mr. Wirt for the plaintiff, in conclusion.
On the 19th Noveniber 1825, Edward Thomson made a general assignment of all his property for the benefit of his creditors. It is. therefore, one of the cases of established insolvency on which the priority of the United States arises.

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.).
The debt to the United States was due for duties on foreigia
goods imported.
The case then depends on the operation of the Act of 2d
March 1799, 3 L. U. S. 197, 565. Which provides, that in all
cases of such an insolvency the debt due to the United States
shall befirst paid before any other debt.
Was there a debt due on that day to the Atlantic Insurance
Company? Is it of this debt they claim satisfaction? The
statute answers that the debt of the United States is first to btpaid. By this statute, it is manifest that the United States are
preferred to all other creditors. Was the Atlantic Insurance
Company creditors? If so, they are postponed to the United
States
Is a creditor by mortgage, a postponed creditor within this
statute? This question has never been solemnly decided by this
Court-either as to a real or personal mortgage.
In Fisher vs. Blight, 2 Cranch, 358, the question did not
arise. The, question there was whether the preference given
to the United States extended to all persons, or was confined to
a paricular class of debtors, public officers, and agents of the
United States.
In the United States vs. Hooe.and others, 3 Crandh, 73, the
question did not arise-!-the only poin! than decided, being that
a mortgage of part of a man's effects, did not eptablish an insolvency within the statutes, on which the preference of the
United States arose.
In Harrison vs. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289, the case went off on
the groun.d that the prior assignment was a fraud upon the
bankrupt laws, and did not affect the priority of the United
States.
In Thelluson vs. Smith, 2 Wflheat. 396, the question of a
prior lien by mortgage did not arise.
.But the question of a prior lien by judgment did arise, and
then the Court after quoting the words of the Act of Congress

ay"these expressions are as general as any that could be
used, and exclude all debts due to individuals whatever may be thieir
d ity. The assignees are made personally responsible to the
UnIted States, if, in case of insolvency, they'pay ani debt pre.vious to those due to the United States. The. aw mqkea no ex-ception injfavotir of prior judgment creditors; and no, lien has
been, or, we think can be shown to warrant this Court in mak-'ing one."
The United States vs. Howland St Allen, 4 Wheat. 108, only
re-asserts the principles of former cases-and thisL is the last
case upon the subject of these statutes.
It is true, that in the argument of the former cases, it has
been occasionally said at the bar, arguendo, that a mortgage

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

423

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insuance Conpany.)
would defeat the priority of the United States. And in some
of the cases the Court, arguendo, has incidentally admitted the
position. These were but dicta. But it has never been solemnly decided by this Court; and they have never been required to look solemnly at the question, with a view to its decision-by hearing an adverse argument against the proposition. They have said that this priority is not in the nature of
a lica, so as to avoid prior" alienationsof property by the debtor. And this admitted, 'he may sell it, he may part with his title
to theproperty-andthe alienation will be good.
But this is not the question.
The question is whether the creation of a lien in favour of a
creditor does not leave that creditor still a creditor-thedebt, still
a debt. And whether if he retains this character of a creditor down
to the time ofthe insolvency, differing from other creditors in no
other way than by having a lien for his debt; that creditor with
his lien and that debt, be not postponed to the United States,. by
force of the-Act of 1799.
It is not meant to admit, that the case before the Court is
the case of a mortgage. But taking it in the first instance in
this the strongest attitude which it is capable of assuming; the
Court i's
asked, whether under this statute, a mortgage creditor
finds any protection in its terms or meaning against the priority
givbn to the United States?
In Thelluson vs. Smith this Court said,-" the law makes no
exception in favour of prior judgment creditors." Does the
law make any exception in favour of prior mortgage creditors?
The answer must be the same in both cases. It makes'no exception in favour.of any creditors. Whoever therefore stands in
relation of a creditor to the insolvent, whoever is claiming a
debt against him, is expressly postponed to the United States.
The existence of apriorlien in his favour, will not protect him
from this consequence. There was a pnior lien in Thelluson vs.
Sthith-the Court decided the case upon the concession, that
the judgment was a lien upon all the lands oftthe defendant. And
when a lien is all that the creditor claims, it cannot vary the
determination, that the.liejs is on apart of the estate instead of
being on the whole.
A lien upon the.whole, considered merely as a lien, is precisely of the same nature with a lien upon a part. The terms generaland specific lien. chaeat the mind with an imaginary distinction,
which has no real existence either in law or reason. For considered in the, light of a lien, merely, the one means nothing
more than a lien upon the whole-the other a lien upon a part.
And it is not conceivable that a lien upon part can strengthen
a lieh upon the whole.
Now what is a mortgage, but a lien on an estate for the secu-

+i24

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. the Atlantic Insurance Company.)

rity of a debt? In a Court of law it is, from its form, considered as an absolute conveyance of the estatei and the mortgagee
can recover it in ejectment. But in equity, even after the day
of payment has past, it is still considered as a mere securityfor
a debt. And the Act of 1799 looks through the forn to the
substance of the thing. Is the mortgagee still a creditor? The
terms of the Act postpone him to the United States. Is the
'debt for which the mortgage is given still a deb? It is post-,
poned to the debts of the United States. Is the mortgage, in
its essence, and object, any thing more than a security for a debt?
Is it any thing more than a lien on a particular_ subject for a
debt?
It is objected, that the. priority given to the Act of 1799, is
only a 0riority to be paid out of the estate of the debtor: and
the subject havingbeen previously mortgaged, constitutes no part
of his estate; but has become a part of the estate of the mortgagee. The answer to this is--that this is the very question
incontroversy.
Lord Hardwicke says expressly--"th'e person entitled to the
equity of redemption is considered as the owner qf the lal,
and a mortgage in fee is considered as personal assets," And
again-" by a decree of all lands, tenements, or hereditanwnts,
a mortgage in fee shall not pass, unless the equity of redemption be foreclosed;" and again-" the interest of the laud must
be somewhere, and cannot be in abeyance; but it is not in the
mortgagee, and, therefore, must remain in the mortgagor." 1 .dtk.
605-6, Carbone vs. Scarfe.
Is it not perfectly familianto us all, that in a case of equity, a
mortgage is considered ps a mere security for a debt? Blackstone puts it, in this view of the case, on the same footing ,with
a bond-a mortgage says he "is also landed'security, as a bond
is a personal security, for the money lent." 3 B. C. 435.
Now suppose a question between the United States and a
prior mortgage, to arise before-a C9urt of Equity of the United
States. The United States claim priority of payment out of
the estate of the insolvent mortgagor, insisting that the mortgaged subject is a part of his estate. The mortgagee on the
other hand alleges that the estate is not in the mortgagor but
in hh. That the mortgagee is theowner of the property. Would
not the Court answer him in the language of Lord Hardwicke
"lyou a,'e not the owner-themortgagoristhe owner-fthe interest is
in him; and the instrument you hold is not a conveyance of the
estate but a mere security upon it. It is a hen in your favou'-but
it leaves the ownership in the mortgagor-itleaves you still a mere
creditorfor a debt-holding, indeed, a lien on the estate-a lin
intended to give you a preference--but that intention is defeated by a statute, whirl creates a preference in favour of the

JANUARV TERM, 1828.

A25

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
United States which rides over all other liens-and considering you merely in the light of a creditor claiming a debt, must
be postponed to the United States."
If this would be the language of a Court of Equity, in such a
case,in expounding and applying the statute, will the question be
varied, because the construction of that statute arises before a
Court of Law ? Will the statute have a different application in
one Court from that which it would have in the other? In a
question arising on the same statute, would a creditor be postpolted in a Court of Equity, who would be preferred in a Court7
of Law? Would it be of any substantial use to the mortgage
creditor, toprefer him in a Court of Law, if he must be postponed when carried before a Court of Equity?
The United States being rem'ediless before a Court of Law,
could they then, on that grond, go into a Court of Equity, and
there strip the mortgagee of the momentary advantage which he
had gained in the Court of Law? It is most manifest, that if the
protection claimed for the mortgagee against the priority of the
United States, proceeds only on the postulate that he is the owner
of the mortgage subject, that postulate could not avail him before a'Cout of Equity; where it is expressly held that he is not
the owner, but that the mortgagoris the owner; themnortgagee being still a mere creditor, holding nothing more than a security on
the subject for the debt; and if he be a creditor, holdingmerelya
security, and not the owner of th property, it has never, been
disputed that the United States are to be preferred.
There is no hardship in the case, which does not apply with
equal force to any other private creditor. Every man like the
mortgagee trusts another on the credit of his property, and
means and consequent ability, to meet his engagements. Itishard
upon them all to be postponed to the government; -and as hard
upon the vigilant judgment creditor as upon the mortgagee. Nor
is it perceived hpw postponing the mortgage creditor, would
tend any more to shake the confidence of man in man, and to
embarrass the commercial operations of the country, than the
postponement of all the other creditors. All men deal now
upon an understanding-that the payment of the debts depends
on the solvency of the debtor; and, that in a case of established insolvency, the govel'nment has the preference. Mortgages
and all other liens and preferences, would still hold between
private creditors. It is only to the government, that these an4
all other credi.ors would give way.
It is submitted, therefore, to the Court, that if this were the
case of a mortgage, the mortgagee would still be a creditor
merely, and as such expressly postponed by the statute. We
are dealing here with an equitable title-so the charge considers
Vol. L
SH

426

SUPREME COURT.
(Cnard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.).

it, and ve are construing the statute with reference to such a
title.
But, if before a Court of Law, a mortgage, from its peculiar
form and. structure, would be considered as conveyirg .the
amount of the property, because such a Court could not look
fr-om the terms of, the coiveyance to the private understanding of the parties, and that it should be a mere security for a debt,
'the difficulty does not exist here.--Because here, upon the face
of the agreement,-and in its express terms, the Court,see that
nothing more was in the contemplation of the parties, than to
create a security for a debt. At eyery step it is proclaimed, that
the intention of the parties looked no farther than to the mere
creation of. a security-" a collateral security for the loim-a
continuation of the collateral security for such loan." This is
the express language, both of the memoranda on the b6nd, and
the assignment of the bill of lading. It is not, as in the case of
,t mortgage, a coraiderationpaidin purchase of the goods; but a
sum loaned and security takenfor the repayment of the loan.
Vith this avowed, clear, continued, uniform declaration of
the intention of both parties, can the Court impute to them a
different intention? And if their intention went no farther than
to create a security for a debt, does'not the creation of the security, leavethe owner of that debt still a mere creditor? Would not
the repayment of the loan, either by Thomson or his assignee,
be the meie payment of a debt to a private creditor? And is
not the payment of any prvate debt forbidden by the statute,
until the debts due to the United States shall first be satisfied ?
But it -s argued. that although the object is admitted to be
to create a security for a debt, that security was intended to be
created, and was created, by conveying to the creditor the title
to the property,, who thereby became the owner of it. The answer is, he is a creditor then upon the security of a fund of
which he is the owner.--Is not this a legal solecism ? If the
fund be his, he is no longer a creditor with regard to that fund;
unless a man can be a creditor to himself.
It is also asked; is not this the case with a mortgage ? Nothe moment that the mortgage is viewed in the light of a security, the ownership is at an end. In a Court of E,4uity, where it
is considered in this light, we -have seen that the ownership of
the mortgagee is denied. In a Court of Law the mortgage after the day of payment is passed, is not considered as a security but as a conveyance of the title, and then the mortgagee is held to be the owner-but not a creditor on the security of the fund.
But we are yet to see a case, where before the same tribunal a
party has been considered as being at once a creditor upon the
security of a fund, and the owner of that fund. He may have a

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

427

(Conard v8. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
special or qualified property, as that of a bailee, which will enable him to maintain trover against him, but still he is not
the a3v.er of the fund, as against the bailor. He may have a
lien accompanied with possession, which will authorize him to
hold the possession even against the owner-but still it is a
lien which he has, and nothing more-and a lien will not prevail against the United States. So with regard to a pawn
or pledge-it is in a Court of Law on the same footing with
'a mortgage in that Court. 'Elefore. the day of payment has past,
the lender on a pawn, though he has the possession, is considered ai a creditoron the security of the subject pledged. When the
day of payment is past, he ceases to be a creditor, and becomes the owner.
The notion then of a lien on a fund, which belongs to the
holder of the lien; is a legal solecism. They cannot co-existthe character of a creditor with his lien, ceases, at the same moment whe. his ownership begins.
It has been already admitted on the authority of decided.
cases, that the priority of the United States constitutes no lienbut leaves the power bf alienation free. Is the creation of a lien
an alienation either total or partial .? If a lien b an alienation
to the amount of the debt. then to the amount of that lien, the
priority of the United States cannot attach. Bdt, if such be the
effeot of a lien, the same effect must be produced, whether that
lien be created by the act of the party, or the act of law. Being in both cases a lien, the legal effect must be the same. But
in the case of Thelluson vs. Smith it was conceded by this Court,
that the judgment was a lien on all the defendant's lands.
If, therefore, the effect of a lien be to divest the estate of the
debtor to the amount of that lien-to 4lienate that estate, and
make it pro tanto the estate of the creditor, that effect was produced here, and the priority of the United States so far defeated. Yet it was not produced here, nor was the priority of the
United States defeated, or in the slightest degree affected by that
conceded lien. Why? Because the Act of Congress had made
no exception in favour of creditors, holding a lien, or of judgment creditors9who were conceded to be creditors holding a
lien.
But if a difference should be supposed to exist between a lien
created by the act of the law, and a lien created by the act of
the party, and that the latter necessarily alienates the property
pro tanto, we have a decision of this Court to the contrary-a decision which marks the distinction between the creation of a
lien, and the alienation of the title by the act of the party. A
bottomry bond is a contract, in the nature of a mortgage, when
money is raised for the repairs of a ship, and the master or
owner pwewes the keel or bottom of the ship, to secure the re-

SUPREME COURI.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

payment of the inoney. Here all the books concede, that there is
a dear lien created by the act of the party-but does that lien produce an alienation of the property? -Blaine vs. The Ship Charles
Carter, 4 Crancl, SS2, proves the reverse. It does not pass the
title, and therefore the holder of the lien in that case, lost it by
laches. It is merely a lien to be enforced in a Court of Admiralty.
The question then returns.What was the condition of the Atlantic Insurance Company
with regard to the property, on the 19th November 1825, when
the insolvency occurred-and the priority of the United States
arose-were they-the owners of this property in part or in whole,
or were they merely creditors holding a secrhity on this property, for the satisfaction of the debts-and this merely on a par
with the holder of a lien by bottomry? This depends on the
construction of the documents.
1. The first document on which they'rest their claim, is the
respondentiabond. The loan on which this respondentia bond
was given, was confessedly made two months after the vessel
and cargo had sailed for China. The interest charged is marine interest, at 10k per cent. per annum. Was the contract valid,
upon.the law which governs that peculiar contract?
It is needl s to darry the investigation to the law of Rome,
and of France, with which it is agreed iwve have nothing to do. It
may be remarked however, in passing, that under these laws, it
was never prete,ded that this species of loan divested the bor.
rower of his title to the property. Nothing more was ever
thought of, than that he stood upon the footing of aprivileged creditor-and the question was always one of mere precedence in the
order of payment-which however material, among private creditors, could have been no question of lien, where the precedence
of the goyernment takes place over all others.
Passing from the law of Rome and France, to our own law,
none is Jnown which we have upon this subject, except the
law of England- and with regard to that law, while the elementary writers by their definitions and their commentaries, treat it
as essential that the loan should precede the depai ture of the
vwssel, or at least have been applied to the voyage;--there is not
a single adjudged case, which recognises a loan on such mode,
for any other purpose than the purpose of the voyage.
The question is not whether marine interest is against the
statute of usury, when the principal as well as the in terest is put
at risk. It is corceded that it is not-i. e. that such interest
would not be a violation of the stalute of usury.
The single question on this point, made in the Circuit Court,
was whether according to the law of this peculiar contract, it
was not essential that the money should have been lent for the
purposes of the voyage, and under circumstances in which it

IANUARY TERM, 1828.

42J

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
might have been aplied to those purpotes. Not that the lender
was bound to see to the application; but that he was bound to
look to the case, so far as to ascertain that the loan was made
under'circumstances in which it might have been so applied.
The only difference between bottomry and respondentiais, that
the first gives a lien on the ship-the last gives a lien on the
goods. In all other respects, bottomry and respondentia are declared to be identical, so that a definition of the one is a definition of the other. Park-, 410-Eng. ed.
Now what is the definition of bottomry?1. 2, Black. Co. 457-8.--" Bottomry (which originally arose
from permitting the master of a ship in a foreign country to hypothecate the ship, in orderto raise wney to refit) is in the nature
of a mortgage of a ship, where the owner takes up money to
enable him to carry on his voyage, and pledges the keel or bottom
df the ship, part for the whole, as a security for the repayment."
Park,410.-" The contract of bottomry is in the nature'of a
mortgage, in which the owner borrows money to enable him tofit
out the ship, or to purchasea cargofor a voyage proposed."
2J atsh. 731.-" Bottomry is a contract in nature of a mortgage of a ship, in which the owner borrows money to enable him
to fit out the ship, or to purchase a cargo for a voyage proposed."
Again. Marshall 2, 736, says-"If the money was spent in
the place where it was lent, it was not pecunia trajectitia, kc. "
so that, with the Romans, as with the moderns,it was of the essence
of this contract, that the loan should be exposed to theperilsof the
sea, at the rick of the lender."
In the next page (737) he says-" in bottomry, the lender furnishes the borrower with money to purchase the goods which are
put in risk. And Park says, 413. 415, 4th edition, "the lender
supplies the borrower with money, to purchase those effects upon
which he is to run the risk."
Now if the Courtsay, thataman who borrows money to pay
for his commbn purposes, and for other objects and concerns,
is a borrower at respondentiaon a bottomry, because he puts the
payment on the return of a ship from sea, with which the loan
has no connexipn, there is an end of th6-vbjection. But there
is certainly nothing il the English law, which countenances
such a position.
With regard to the presumption that the. money was so applied-the United States offered to repel it by showing that it
-never was so applied-but the inquiry was stopped in the case
of Arny-the Court seeniing to entertain the opinion, that the
inquiry was immaterial. There is no English case which gives
a different view of the law of respo2idenlia and bottomry, from
those extracted from Blackstone, Park and Marshall. The
cases cited from the old English Reporters. apply only to the

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard v .The Atlantic'Insurance Company.)
question of usury under the statute, when the principal is put
at risk. The form of the bonds, as referred to by Mr. Ingersoll,
are in conformity with the law as laid down. But suppose the
Court to be of opinion, that the bond is free from objection on
this ground, the question still is, -whether this bond in coming
inwith the other documents, passed the ownership of the property to the Insurance Company? The respondentiabond did
not even create a lien, Park, 410. A bottomry bond creates a
lien, but does not Pass the title, Blaine vs. Ship Charles Carter, 4 Cra. 332.
Does the memorandum on the bond stipulate for a transfer
of the title? It stipulates for all that was afterwards done,
but exp'essly for the-purpose of creating a collateralsecuri4-not for that of passing the title.
Did the assignment of the outward bill of lading.pass the
title? That. again expressly declares that the whole object was
to create a security, and to continue that security. Did the legal effect of the Act reach beyond the intention of the parties? Such a construction could not be attached-the intention
clearly expressed always governs the construction of the contract.
What are the authorities on this subject? Do .they say that
the ass gnment of a bill of lading, always produces the effect
of passing the property? The assignment of a bill of lading
does hot always produce the same effect. It always depends on
the relation of the parties, and te intent with which the act is
done. It depends says Holt ",on the mutual understanding" of
-the parties, 2 Holt, 72. Here the understanding is clear-it is
to be done merely to create a collateral security. The modern
cases in England, that have been cited as to.the effect of the assignment of a bill of lading; are generally- cases between the
assignee of the bill and the assignees of the bankrupt; and not
on the general provisiois of the Bankrupt Law of England.
•The Bankrupt Law of England, 5 Geo. II. c. So. § 28, places
the assignees of the bankrupt precisely on the sane-fopting in
which the bankruipt himself stood, at the moment of his bankriptcy. In cases of mutual credit, they are subject to all the
set-offs to which he was subject-and to all'the'liens which he
had created. The others represent only the private creditors,
and when offered to another creditor, they are all of equal dignity-all liens therefore stand according to their priority.
Hence, a mere agreement to assign a bill of lading, between
such parties ha§ been held equivalent to an assignment, for
the purpose Qf creating a preference among these equal creditors. Such was the case of Lempriere vs. Paisley-the
Court of King's Bench held that such an agreement created a
lien; and that -the assignees of the bankrupt could not take

JANUXRY TERM, 1828.

131

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
the property, without discharging the lien. - T. . 495. Pigolt's ,drg. 489i dshhurst, 490-argument of Lord Kenyon as

cited by him, p. 493. Ashhurst calls it an equitable lieunot an equitable title; and he says as "between the person who
holds the equitable lien, and the assignees, if the lien suksists
before the bankruptcy, they shall never recover or retain tie
thing without discharging the money due;" why?-he gives the
reason. "The party who has the equitable lien ought not to
have footing with the rest of the creditors,for whom the assignees
are the trustees." 8&c.
There it was a quhstion of preference of payment betweencreditors of equal dignity.
The case of Atty et al. Assignees of Jamieson, bankrupt, vs.
Hatson, 4 Camlpb. 325, is another case of 'preference of payment among creditors of equal degree, by force of such a lien.
The case' of Olive vs. Smith, 5 gaunt. 56, is another, where.
the wholebearing of the bankrupt law is decided upon, and all
these cases are found to turn oh it. Haille vs. Smith, I Bos. 4Pull.563, is another case under the bankrupt law; and there
the effect of the bill of lading was e Rressed, and by the priorintention of the parties, it Was held* to transfer the property, because such was the prior intention, and that transfer was absolute.
On these bankrupt cases in England, it is proper to remark,
that they are no guides for a decision under the statute of the
United States. Thiey were questions of preference between
creditors of equal degree, and the question then always was,
whether such' a preference had been created by the bankrupt, before his bankruptcy, as gave him a preference to the
other creditors. But her, under our statute, there is a creditor of the highest degree, who settles all. questions of preference as soon as he appears, by taking it himself, under, the authority of the public law. These cases, therefore, are ifiapposite to the question before the Court.

It has been already said, that in Engand the effect of the issignment of a bill of lading is not absolute, but depends on the
intention of the parties. It may now be added, that there is no

case in England, where the assignment of a bill of lading, or

the consignment of a cargo, has been held to pass the proper-

tybut where there is a present debt, and where such consignment
or assignment is made and received,as apaymentpro tanto.
Such was the case of Hibbert vs. Carter, which was at first

decided on .that position.,
But afterwards, on proof that it was not the intention to pass
the whole property, that ,decisionwas changed, and the ultimate
recovery was on that intention against the indication afforded

by the bill of lading, 1 T. R. 745. Lickbarrow and Mason, 2, T

43-

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insi-ance Company.)

R. 63, is not a question between the original parties--as to
whom, it is there said, that their intention may be inquiredintobut it was the case of a purchaser,, who had purchased and
paid for the cargo, and took an, assignment of the bill of lading to herself. The result of all the cases is, that such an assignment, -as between the original parties, passes the property
oi not, according to the intention. And this conforms to the case
in Precedents in Clanoery 289--lucknell & Co. vs. Hoylston.
This case was the'case of a bill of sale, which in Hartle and
Smith, is said to be a differenit thing from an agreement with regard to a bill of lading. This bill of sale was held, upon the intentioh of the parties, to amount to an equitable security-sufficient to
prevail against a. general creditor--or the general creditors of

the deceased, as giving a lien with regard to the specific subject, against other creditors of equal legree. Now, that the
intention of the parties in this case looked no farther than to
the creation of a security, is averred by the holder.
And when we come to look at the situation of the parties, we
will find that the, creation of a security by way of lien,, was all

that was proposed.
Therewas no debt due-it depended on a contingency whether

there ever would be a debt. At the time of the insolvency there
was no dlebt. The holder 'of a repondentia bond is not considered as a creditor at all. Hence in England, h6 could not

prove his 'debt under a commission of bankruptcy-until a
special statute was there made for his case, 1 Holt, 424.
It is not contended that a contingent' debt cannot be secured
-there is no doubt that it may. But the absolute tran.fer of

property, so as to throw the ownership on a merely contingent
creditor, is contrary to the nature of the case. The creation of
a lien to meet the contingency, is natural and proper, and this
is all that the parties proposed.
With rega d to the return carg6, which was the property in
question,-there is strong grounds for saying that there was a
marked intention to keep the property out of the lender, till the
return of the vessel, -and the delivery of the bill of lading.
For what he does stipulate from it, is not for a bill of lading
consigning the goods to him; but to order.-Now, in whom
does the property under such a title abide? Clearly in the shipper-until the title is actually delivered to order. The later effect is
a transfer only for that time, and here, not delivered till the priority of the United States had attached-say then that the assignmentof the outward billif standing alone,would have passed
not only the outward cargo of specie, but the proceeds in the
return cargo; yet that very assignment stipulated for an inWard.bill to order, which threw the property.upon the shipper in
Canton, who was the representative of Edward Thomson-

JANUARY .TERM, 1828.

436

kCoiaard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
and if the priority of the United States, could not attach before,
because the property was in the Company, it attached the very
moment the property fell back on Thomson-with the consent
of the Company; while the return cargo then was crossing the
ocean with a bill of lading to order, in whom was te property
of that cargo ? Clearly- in the shipper--charged, if you please,
with an equitable lien in behalf of the Company.
A lien, which they could have -enforced only in a Court of
Equity, if the bill had not been delivered to their order. Because, at law, the title.was manifestly in the shipper by virtue
of'the bill to order, for which they had stipulated.
It is not disputed, that under trie authority of the decree in
Precedents in Chancery, 289, they could have successfully enforced that lien against the other general creditors, and claimed a preference of them, by virtue of that prior lien.
But could they have asserted that preference, against the
United States?
Now this case is to be considered as it stood prior to the delivery of the bill to order; because the priority of the United
States arose prior to that time, and ranged through the whole
period, during which the ship was crossing the ocean. If it attached at any time during that period, it could not be dislodged by any thing subsequently done, because it is to be tested
only by the state of things which existed, when it arose, and
when it was in full force.
The trustees under the general deed of assignment, had nopower to alter-the condition in which they found the property,
so as to affect the priority of the United States.
If they' had acttd ever so fairly, nothing done by them could
have changed the condition of things to the prejudice of the rights
of the United States. Clear of their priority by law, the United
States are the first objeet of that trust itself-could the trustees by
any.fraudulent act on their part, create a legal preference among
those creditors? Whether the parties to be benefited by it were
connusant of that fraud or not, it is apprehended they could take
no benefit by a fraud of the trustee. Hence the impropriety of
arresting the evidence on this subject.
The-positions are again asserted, that with regard to the return cargo, the sole subject of controversy, the legal title to
that was in the shipper, that is in Edward Thomson, by virtue
of the bill to order not yet delivered.That this being the very bill stipulkted for in the assignment,
the legal title was in Tiomson, by the consent of the plaintiffs
below-charged, at the best, with an equitable lien iu their behalf.
That in this condition of things, the priority of the United
States fell upon the subject.
31
VOL. T.

434

SUPREME COURT.

(conard w. The Atlantc Insurance Company.j
That although the equitable lien of the plaintiffs below, ;iould
have prevailed against general creditors and given the plaintiffs
a preterence to payment as against them; yet it is claimed that
the preference yielded to the priority of the United States;
which h1aving fastened upon the property, in its condition,
could not be dislodged, by the subsequent delivery of the bill:
to order.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.This is an action of trespass, de hon8 asportatis,brought in
the Circuit Court, for the district of Pennsylvania, by the Atlantic Insurance Company, to recover against the. defendant
John Conard, the MarshAl of that district, the value of certain
teas, shipped on board. the ships Addison and Superior, and
levied upon by him, upon an execution, in favour of the United
States, against one Edward Thomsofi, as the property of the
latter. The real question in the cause is, whether the Insuirance Company or the United States, are entitled to the teas or
their proceeds.
The miterial facts, disclosed at the trial in the Circuit Court,
were, as follows.--Edward Thomson Was a merchant, largel)
engaged in trade in the city of Philadelphia, in the year 1825;
and on.the 21st day of June of that year, borrowed, at respondentia, of the Insurance Company, the sum of 21,000 dollars,
upon goods, &c. on board of the ship Addison, of that port, on
a voyage, at and from Philadelphia, to Canton, and at and from
thence, back to Philadelphia; beginning the risk, on the 21st
of the preceding April; about which time the ship hid sailed
on the voyage. Edward Thomson had shipped on board of
the Addison, for his own--account and risk, for the voyage,
21,000 Spanish dollars, consigned to J.R. Thomsoi, his ageut
and his assigns, and deliverable to him in Canton; and regular bills of lading were accordingly signed; one of which, was
retained by the shipper. At the time of the execution of the
'espondentia bond, a memorandiim of agreement was entered
into by the parties, and an assignment made on the back of
this bill of lading. The form and, effect of these'instruments,
will be n'atter of more particular' comment hereafter1 at present it is only Aecissary to add, that. the loan purports, on the
face'of the bond, to be a loan for the joint acdount of E. Thomson, E. H. Nicoll, F. H. Nicoll, and F. S. Bailey; but in, reality, the transaction was for the use and benefit of E. Thomson,
and the goods shipped in the Addison, were on his sold account.
On the 14th'July of the same year, aloan was made to Edward
Thomson, of 13,960 dollars, on goods on board the ship Superior,
which lid sailed on a sinfiilar voyage, on the 6th of June pre-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

435.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
ceding. A rerpondetdiabond was t ei in the same fofn, from
the same parties, on the like voyage, with a similar memorandum of assignment of the bill of lading. The-only difference
between the transactions was, that-this loan was applied in part
payment of a former loan, made by the Insurance Company on
another ship of E. Thomson's., On'thp. 19th of November E.
Thomson, having become insolvent,'made a general assignment
of all his property to Peter Mackie, and Richard Renshaw ;'for
the use of his creditors. At this time, he was very largely indebted to the United States on duty bonds, The Addison left.
Cantoi on her return to Philadelphia, having among her papers
a bill of lading of the proceeds of the 21,000 dollars, consigned
by the shipper (Mr. Fisher attorney fopr 3. R. Thomson,) to order, in blank, and endorsed, in blank, by the shipper, axidifndrked No. 5. This mark was to identify them as the proceeds of
the 21,000 dollars. Mr. Fisher also gave the master a manifest, stating the cargo to be consigned to E. Thomson, and a
general bill of lading of the -whole--cargo, consigning it to E;
Thomson. The invoice and bill of lading, were dated 92d November 1825. The general bill of lading was not signed. The
Superior left Canton, having'.ng her paper' a bill of lailing
of certain articles, valued in the invoice at 339S dollars, con-igned to Peter Mackie, and also a bill of lading of certain articles, valued at 9 1139 86, consigned to Barclay Arny,and both
dated 2d December 1825. Before the arrival of these ships in
America, the United States had obtained judgments against E.
Thomson, for'large sums of money due upon his bonds at the
Custom House. Both ships arrived in ielaware Bay, al.most at
the same time; and an execution issued on behalf of the United
States, on one of the judgments against E. Thomson, on the
13th March 1826. and was levied on the-shps and their cargoes,
on the 15th of March, while theyr were yet in the bay. It was
under this levy, that the goods in controversy were seized by
the marshal.
Two or three days before the ships came up to Philadelphia,
Peter Mackie, the assignee of E. Thomson, having received
duplicates of the invoice and bills of lading of the cargo of the
Addison, delivered them to the agents of the Insurance Company at Philadelphia; and upon the a 'ival of the ship itself,
handed over, to the same agent, the invoices and bills of lading,
brought by the master. On the 22d of March 1826, Peter
Mackie and BarclaynAmiy endorsed to the Insurance Comliany the invoices and bills of lading, which caide to theif crder
by the Superior. These papers came under cover tb EdWard
Thomson, several being .enclosed in the same envelop'; and
Mackie all6tted-them to their respective owners, bymeans of
the numbers endorsed upon them. These numbers were ori-

436 ,

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

ginally placed' upon the outward and homeward bills of lading,
and invoices, for the purpose of designating the proceeds of
each particular shipment. It appeared, that part.of the -1,960
dollars, borrowed of the Insurance Company on the goods in
the Superior, was expended in disbursements in Canton; and
the two invoices to Mackie and Arny, were consigned to them
contrary to instructions; and they assigned them to the Insurance Company, under the belief that they were the proceeds of
the outward shipment pledged for the loan. The reason assigned for there being a manifest and general bill of lading,
consigning the cargo to Edward Thomson, was te enable him
to enter the cargo in his own name, after he had settled with
the Insurance Company, and paid the ;espondentia loans. The
several 'particular invoices and bills of lading, were. then to be
cancelled, and the master was to sign the general bill-of lading,
and the cargo was-to be entered at the Custom House, in the
name of E. Thomson. He *as inthe habi. of taking up other
large sums, at respondentia,and this was the usual course of his
arrangements in business.
Such is the general outline of t ie case. The loan on the
shipment in the Superior, as has been already stated, difTfrs
from that on the shipment in the Addison, only in the circumstance that it was applied in discharge of a prior loan. - In our
judgment, that makes no difference, as to the legal rights of
the parties. The borrower had a right to apply the loan in any
manner he pleased; and the mode of its application,if it be otherwise bona fide, and legal, does not change the posture of the
rights of !he lender. We shall therefore dismiss, at once, all further consideration of this point; and treatboth cases, as if they
stood-on a single shipment.
Several objections have been taken to these respondentia
bonds, to impeach their original validity. It is said, that
they ought to ,be treated as usurious, or gaming contracts;
that they are not. to be deemed bona fide transactions, upon
real risks; but transactions void in point of law, upon their
face. So far as the questions of usury, .or gaming, or bona
fides, upon substantial risks, are matters of fact, they Were
left fully open, and havebeen passed upon by the jury, who have
found a velfdict against them; so tar as there are -matters
of law apparent upon the record, prQper to avoid the bonds,
they are still open for inquiry. Two grounds have been relied on for this purpose; First, that the loans were made
after the: sailing of.the" ships on the voyage; 'and Secondly, that the money loaned was not appropriated to the pu'r-.
chaseof the goods put on board, And -was not the identical property, on which the risk was -run. Inr our.Judgment, neither
of these objections can be sustained. It is not necessary that

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

437

(Conarl v8. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
a re3pondentia loan should be made before the departure of the
ship,, on the voyage, nor that the money loaned should be employed in the outfit of the vessel, or invested in the goods on
which the risk is run. It matters not, at What time the loan is
made; nor upon what goods the risk Is taken. If the risk of
the voyage be substantially and really taken; if the transaction
be not a device to cover usury, gaming, or fraud; if the advance be in good faith, for a maritime premium; it is no ohjection. to it, that it was made after the voyage was commenced,
nor that the money was appropriated to purposes wholly unconnected with the voyage. The lender is not presumed to
lend upon the faith of any particular appropriatibn of the money; and if it were otherwise, his security could not'be avoided by any misapplication of the fund, where the risk was boza
fide run upon other goods, and it was not a mere contract of
wager and hazard. What could bc the effect, if it were a mere
wagering contract, it is unnecessary to consider; because there
is the clearest proof here, thdt there was property on board belonging to the borrower, and sailing on the voyage at his risk.
The form of the respondentia bond in the present case is, as far
as we know, the common and usual form. The only deviation
from the actual facts is, that it seems in some of its provisions to contemplate the voyage as not then commenced. This
probably . 'se from using the common printed form, which
is adapted t,. that, as the ordinary case. But it-misled no one,
and was certainly perfectly understood by the parties. The
risk was taken for the whole voyage, precisely as if the ships
had been then in port; and, if before the bonds were given,
the property had been actually lost, by any of the perils enumerated in it, it is clear that the loss must have been borne by the
lenders. They could not. have recovered it back, since the event
was one within the scope- and contemplation of the contract.
The safety then of the property, at that particular perio#
does not vary the rights of the parties; and from the very nature of the transaction, it must have been utterly unknown to
both, whether the ship was at the time, in safety or not. The,
entered into the contract, upon the sual footing of policies o
insurance, lost, or not lost. So far as this deviation from the
fact bore upon the point of the good faith and reality of the
contract, as a genuine maritime loan, it was left to the jury
to draw such inferences, as hpon the whole circumstances, they
were warranted to draw. The charge of the learned Judge,
in the Circuit Court,. was as favourable to the defence or. this
point, as it could be upon the principles of law.
The next question is, -in whom was the property'in the shipment vdsted, at the tima of the levy of the execution of the
United States. Was it so vested in the Insurance Company,

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

either in law or equity, that they are now entitled to maintain
the present suit; or in other words, to recover the proceeds
in the marshal's hands? This depends upon the view taken of
the objects, intentions, and acts of the parties, as disclosed in
the bonds, and the accompanying papers. When these are once
ascertained and settled, it will not be difficult to arrive at the
proper legal conclusion.
It is contended, on behalf of the-United States, that rio title
or interest*in the property shipped, passed by the instruments
taken collectively, to the Insurance Company; that Edward
Thomson remained the sole owner of the goods, and their
proceeds, during thewhole voyage; that at most, the Insurance Company had but a lien upon them for the security
of their debt, which was displaced by the priority of the United States; and, finally, that if the Insurance Company had any
title or irterest in the property, it was not absolute, but by way
of mortgage; and even this, coming in competition with the
priority of the United States by operation of law, yields to
their superior privilege.,
Before poceeding to the discussion of the. right of the Insurance Company over the property in question; itmay be
well to consider, what is the nature and effect of the priority of
the United States, under the statute of 1799, ch. 128. Although that subject has been several times before this Court,
the observations which have fallen from the bar, show, that
the opinions of the Court have, sometimes, not been understood according to their true import. The 65th section of
the Act declares, that "in all cases of insolvency, or where
any estate in the hands of executors, administrators, and assignees, shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due from the
deceased, the debt or debts due to the United States &c. shall
be first satisfied; and any executor, administrator, or assignees,
or other person, who shall pay any debt due by the person or
estate, .frori whom, or for which they, are acting, previous to
the debt or debts due to the United States from such person
or estate, being first duly satisfied, and paid; shall become answerable in their own person and estate, for the debt, or debts
so due to the United States, or so much thereof, as may remain due and unpaid; and adions or suits at law may be commenced against them for the recovery of the said debt or debts,
or so much thereof as may remain due and unpaid, in the proper Court having cognizance thereof." A subsequent clause of
the same iection declares, that, "the cases of insolvency mentioned in this section, shall be deemed to extend, as well to
cases, in which a debtor not having sufficient property to pay
all his or her debts, shall have made a voluntary assignment
thereof for the benefit of his or her creditors, or in which the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

439

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
estate and effects, of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor, shall have been attached by process of law; as to cases, in
which an act of legal bankruptcy, shall have been committed."
Itis obvious, that this latter clause is merely an explanation of
the term "insolvency," used in the first clause- and embraces three classes of cases, all of which relate to living debtors.
The case of deceased debtors, stands wholly upon the alternative
in the former part of the enactment. Insolvency then, in the sense
of the statute, relates to such a general divestment of property, as would in fact be equivalent to insolvency in its technical
sense. It supposes, that all the debtor's property has passed
from him. This was the language of the decision in the case
of the United States vs. Hooe (3 Cranch, 73;) and it was consequently held, that an assignment of part of the debtor's property, did not fall within the provision of the statute. So too,
a mere inability of the debtor to pay all his debts, is not an in.
solvency within the statute; but it must be manifested, in one
of the three modes pointed out in the explanatory clause already referred to. That was the point, on which the case oi
Prince vs. Bartlett, (8 Cranch, 431,) turned.
What then is the nature of the priority, thus limited and
established, in favour of the United States? Is it a right, which
supersedes and overrules the assignment of the debtor, as to
any property which the United States may afterwards elect to
take in execution, so as to prevent such property from passing
by virtue of such assignment to the assignees? Or, is it a
mere right of prior payment, out of the general funds of the
debtor, in the hands of the assignees? We are of 'opinion that
it clearly falls, within the latter description.~ The language
employed is that which naturally would be employed to express such an intent; and it must be strained from its ordinary import, to speak any other..
Assuming. that the words "in all cases of insolvency," indicate an entire class of cases, and that the other member of the
sentence "or when any estate," &c., is to be read distributively, as has been contended for, on behalf of the United States;
it does not, in the slightestdegree, vary the construction of the
statute. It will then read, that "1in all cases of insolvency, the
debt or debts due to the United States, &c., shall be.firpt satisfied."
But how are they to be satisfied? Plainly, as the mtcciiding
clause demonstrates, by the assignees; who.are rendered ppr,
sonally liable, if they omit to discharge such debt or debts.,
To enable the assignees to pay the United Stat s, it is indispensable that the fund should pass to them; and if the mere
priority of the United States intercepted it,or gave a right todefeat it, the object of the statute would riot be acccomplished.,

440

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
If the legislature had intended to defeat the passing of the property to the assignees, as against debts due to the United States,
the natural language in which such an intention would be
tlothed, would be to declare, that so far, such assignments
should be void. Then again, the very enumeration of the
cases of insoliency, in all of which the assignment passes, and
is to pass the whole of the.debtor's property, confirms the. interpretation already asserted. They are the very cases, where
by law there is no exception as to the extent or operation of the
assignment to divest the debtor's estate. One of these is the
case of a legal bankruptcy; .and in the Act on this subjet,
passed in the next session of Congress, there is an express provision, in the 69d section,, that " nothing contained in this law
shall in any manner affect-the right or preference to prior satisfaction of debts due to the United States," as secured or provided, by any law heretofore passed. Yet the bankrupt Act
contains no exception as to the property to be passed to the assignees, in favour of any person. In the case of the United
States vs. Fisher et al. 2 Cranch, 358, which was decided upon
great deliberation; this Court held, in the construction of a
similar clause in the Act of 3d March 1797, ch. 74, that "no
lien is created by this law; no bonafide transfer of property in
the ordinary course of business, is overruled.. It is only a priority in payment, which under different modifications, is a regulation in common use; and this priority is limited to a particular state of things, when the debtor is living, though it
takes effect generally, if he be dead." And this doctrine was
again recognised in the United States v9. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73.
90.
If then the property of.the debtor passes to the assignees; if
debts due to the United States constitute no lienmon such property; if the preference or privilege of the United States be
no riore than a priority of satisfaction or payment out of a
common fund; it would seem to follow, as a necessary consequence, that even if the teas in controversy, were the property of Edward Thomson, they passed by his general assignment,
in November 1825, (which is not denied to have been a bona
fide, and valid transaction,) to his assignees; and become their
property for distribution among his creditors; and were not
liable to the levy inder the execution of the United States.
That, however, would be a question merely between the
United States and the assignees, and would ii no shape help
the Atlantic Insurance Company to maintain their present
suit.
Then, again, it is contended on behalf of the United States,
that the priority thus created by law. if it be not of itself

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

44-1

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
a lien, is still superior to any lien, and even to an ;ctuai mortgage, on the personal property of the debtor.
It is admitted, that where any absolute conveyance is made,
the property passes so as to defeat the priority; but *it is said
that a lien has been decided to have no such effect; and that in
the cye of a Coitrt of Equity a mortgage is but a lien for a
debt. Thelluson vs. Smith, (2 Wheat. 396,) has been mainly
relied on, in support of this doct ine. -That case has been
greatly misunderstood at the bar, and will 'equire a pat'ticular
explanation. But the language of the learned Judge who delivered the opinion of the Court, in that case, is conclusive on
the point of a mortgage. "The United States," said he, "are
to be first satisfied; but then it must be out of the debtor's estate. If, therefore, before the right of preference has accrued
to the United States,the debtor has made abonafide conveyance
of his estate, to a third person; or has mortgagegd the same to
secure a debt-or if his property has been seized under a ficri
.facias, the property is divested out of the debtor, and cannot
be made liable to the United States." The same doctrine
may be deduced from the case of United States vs. Fisher, (2
Cranch, S58,) where the Court declared, that "no bona fide
transfer of property in the ordinary course of business, is overreached by the statutes ;" anl "that a mortgage is a conveyance of property, 'id,.passes it conditionally to the mortgagee."
If sb plain a proposition required any authority to support it,
it is clearly maintained in United States vs. Hooe, "(S Crancl,
73.)
It is true, that in discussions in Courts of Equity, a mortgage
is sometimes called a lien for a debt. And sq it certainly is,
and something more; it is a transfer of theproperty itself, ag
security for the debt. This must be admitted to be true at
law; and it is equally true in eqiuity; for in this respect equity
follows the law. It does not consider the estate of the mortgagee as defeated and reduced to a mere lien, but it treats it as
a trust estate, and according to the intention of the parties, as
a qualified estate, and security. When the debt-is discharged,
there is a resulting trust for the mortgagor. It is therefore only
in a loose and g~neral sense that it is sometimes, called a lien,
and then only by-way of contrast to an estate absolute, and indefeisible. But it has never yet been decided, by this Court,'
that the priority of the United States will divest a specific
lien, attached to a thing, whether it be accompanied by possession, or not. Cases of lien, accompanied by possession, are
among others; the lien of a ship's owner to detain goods for
freight; the lien of a factor on the goods of his principal for
balances due him; the lien of an artisan for work and services
upon the specific thing. On the other hand. there are .liens
.3 K
Vor. 1 .

SUPREME COURT.
kConard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
where the right is perfect, independent of possession; as7 the
lien of a seaman for wages, and the lien of a bottomry holder
oi the ship for the sum loaned. In fione of these cases has it
cver.been decided, that in a conflict of satisfaction out of the
thing itself, the priority of the United States cut out the lien
of tie partic ular creditor. And before such decision is made,
it will deserve very grave deliberation, and a marked attention.
to what fell from the Court, in Nathan uy. Giles, (5 Taunt.
558. 574.) At present it is wholly unnecessary to decide it, for
reasons which will hereafter apear. The case of Thelluson
,s. Smith, (2 lTTeat. S96,) is not understood to justify any
such conclusion. That case turned "upon its own particular
circumstances. A judgment, 7idi, was obtained against-Cram!nofid on the 20th of May 1805, in favour of Thelluson and
others. Orrthe 22d of the same month lie executed a general as.
sigment of all-his estate to trustees for the payment of his debts.
At that time he was indebted to the United States; oil several
duty bonds, which became due at subsequent periods. Suits
were instituted on these bonds, us. they severally became
due, and judgments were obtained and executions issued
against Crammond, under which a landed estate called Sedgely, was levied upon and sold by the marshal; and the action
was brought by Thelluson and others, against the marshal, to
recover the proceeds of this sale in his hands. 'No execution
had ever issued upon .the judgment of Thelluson and others
against Crammond, and of course there had'been no ley under
that judgment on the Sedgely estate, before or after. the levy
in favour of the United States. It was adirjitted, that in Pennsylvania a judgment constitutes a lien on the real estate of the
judgment debtor; vnd it was assumed by this Court, in the argument of the 6ause, that the judgment of Thelluson and
others, bound the estate from the 20th of May, when it was en,
tered, ,
although in fact it was not finally entered, until
nearly a year afterwards. The posture of the casd then was,
that of a judgment creditor seeking to recover the proceeds of
a sale of land sold under an adverse execution, out of the hands
of the marshal; upon the ground of his having a mere general lien, by his judgment, on all the lands of his debtor; that
judgment never having been consummated,,by any levy on the
land itself. The Court decided that the action was not maintainable. The reasons for that opinion are not, owing to accidental .circumstances, as fully given as they are usually given in this Court. But the arguments of the counsel, point out
grounds upon which it may have proceeded, without touching
the general question of lien. The plaintiffs were entitled to recover only, \upon. the ground that they could establish in
'themnselves a rightful title to the pr6ceeds. Whether the land

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

445

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
itself was rightfully sold under the execufibn of the United
States, or any title to it passed by the sale, as against the assignees of Crammond, was not matter of inquiry in that case.
However tortious or invalid it might be, still, if the plaintiffs
had no title to the proceeds, they must fail in their action.
Under the general assignment -ofthe debtor, the priority of the
United States attached; and if the assignees were willing to acquiesce in the sale, the right of the United States to hold the
proceeds, could not be disturbed by third-persons. Now, it is
not understood that a general lien by judgment on land, coiustitutes, per 8e, a property, or right, in"the lknd itself. It only
confers a right to levy on the same, to .the exclusion of other
adverse interests, -subsequent to the judgment; and whenthe
levy is actually made on the same, the title of the' creditoe for
this'purpose relates back to the time of his judgmert so as to
cut out intermediate incumbrances. But, subject to this, the
debtor has'full power to sell, or otherwise dispose of the land.
His title to it is not divested or transferred by'the judgment to
the judgment creditor. It may be levied upon by any other
creditor, who is entitled to hold it against every ')ther personexcept such judgment creditor: and even against him, unless
he consummates his title by a levy on the land, under his judgmeat. In that event, the prior levy is, as to him, void;, and
the creditor lpses all right under it. The case stands, in this
respect, precisely upon the same'ground as any other defctive levy, lor sale. The title to the land does not pass under it.
In short a judgment creditor has nojus in re, but.a mere power to make his general lien effectual, by following up the steps
of the law, and consummating his judgment by an execution
and levy on the land. If the debtor should sell the estate, he
has no right to follow the proceeds of the sale, into the hands
of vendor or vendee; or to claim the purchase money in the
hands of the latter.. - is not like the case where the goods
of a person have- been tortiously taken and sold, and he can
trace the proceeds, and, waiving the tort, chooses to claim the
latter. The only remedy of the judgment creditor is against
the thing itselff by.making that a specific title which was before a general lien. He can only claim the proceeds bf the
sale of the land, when it has been sold on his own execution,
and ought to be applied to its satisfaction. To. this state of
things, the language of the Court i Thelluson vs. Smith is to
be applied, when it is said, that if the debtor's property is
seized under aft. fa. it is divested out of the debtor, and dannot be lialfle to the United States. Applying these principles to the facts of that case, it is clear that the Sedgely estate
had not been divested out of the debtor by any execution on tle
judgment of Thelluson and others; that it either remained in

444

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard vs.,The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
the debtor, and was liable to the execution of any other of his
creditors, who choose to levy upon it, subject, of course, to
have his title overruled by their subsequent levy, when perfected; or, that, subject in like manner, it passed by the
assignment, (if that was bona fide,) to the assignees; and
in their hands, the Unifed States would have a priority of payment out of it, as general funds, in their hands. The judgment
creditors, as such, had no title to any fund in the hands of the
assignees, until the priority of the United States was satisfied ;
fdr that priority does not yield to-any class of creditors, however high might be the dignity of their debts.
The fact, that a judgment creditor has a lien, does not place
him in a better situation, as a creditor, over the general funds of
the debtor in the hands of the assignees. If he possess such a
lien he must enforce it in the manner prescribed by law; and
if he does, that may so far affiect the interest of the assignee'
*actually subjected to such lien. Buf it gives him no rights to
the fund, until he has perfected his lien according to the course
of the law. Until that period, he has merely a power over the
property, and not an actual interest in it. This ground is alluded to in that part of the opinion of the Court, where speaking of the 'priority of the United States, it is said, "the law
makes no exception in favour of prior judgment creditors, &c.
Exceptions there must necessarily be as to the funds out of
which the United States are to be satisfied; but there can be
none in relation to the debts due from a debtor of the United
States to individuals. The United States are to be first satisfied; bt:t then it must be out of the debtor's estate." The real
ground of the decision, was, that the judgment, creditor had
never perfected his title, by -any execution and levy on the
Sedgely estate; that he had acquired no titl6 to the proceeds
as his property, and that if the proceeds were to be deemed
general funds of the debtor, the priority of the United States
to payment had attached against all other creditors; and that
a mere potential lien on land, did not carry a legal title to the
proceeds"of a sale, made under an adverse execution. This is
the manner in which this case has been understood, by the
Judges who concurred in the decision; and it is obvious, that
it established no suiah proposition, as that a specific and perfected lien, can be displaced by the mere priority of the United States; since that priority is not of itself equivalent to a
lien.
We may then dismiss any farther, consideration-of this topic, unless it shall appear that the right of the reepowmlentiaholders in the present case, is reduced to a mere general-lien; and
as to them, at least, (however it may be as to the assignees,)
no legal right exists to maintain an action for the proceeds.

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

445

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
The attention of the Court -will then be at once addressed, to'
the question, what was the nature and extent of the interest of
the Insurance Company in the shipments in question. It is unnecessary to discuss what would have been the rights of the
parties, if the respondentia bonds had stood alone; for that is
not the, posture of this case- The whole instruments must be
taken 'together, and construed as one entire agreement. We
must then examine the memorandum, the outward bill of lading and assignments thereoii, ih connexion with the bond. The
bill of lading purports, on its face, to be a shipment by Edward
Thomson, of seven kegs containing 21,000 dollars, for account
and risk of the shipper; to be delivered at Canton to John IL
Thomson, or his assigns. By the well, settled principles of
commercial law, the consignee is thus constituted the authorized agent of the owner, whoever he may-be, to receive thd
-goods, ind by his endorsements of the bill of lading, to a bona.
fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without notice of
any adverse interests, the latter becens as against all the
world, the owner of the goods. This is the result of the principle, that bills of lading are transferable by endorsement, and
thus may pass the property. It matters not whether the consignee, in such case, be the buyer of the goo.ls, or thM factor, or
agent of the owner. His transfer in such a case is equally capable of divesting the property of the owner, and vesting it in
the ehdorsee of the bill of lading:. And, strictly speaking, no
person- but such consignee can by an endorsement of the bill
of lading, pass the legal title to the goods. 'But if the shipper
be' the owner, and the shipment be on his own account, and.
risk, although he may not pass the title by virtue of a mere
endorsement of the bill of lading, unless he be the consignee,
or what is the same thing, it be delivertble to his order; yet
by any assignment, either on the bill of lading, or by a separate
instrument, he an pass the legal title to the same; and it will
be good against all persons, except such a purchaser.for a valuable consideration, by an endorsement of the bill of lading.itself. Such an assignment, not only passes the legal -title as
against his agents and factors, but also against his creditors,
in favour of the assignee. It is unnecessary to cite particular
authorities on these points: they will be found supported "by
the authorities cited at the argument, and by the elementary
treatises of Mr. Abbott, Mr. Holt, and Mr. Chitty, on this
subject; and particularly by Nathan vs. Giles, 5 Taunt. 558.
In the present case Edward. Thomson was the owner of the
goods, and the consignee was merely his factor. He therefore
had full power, notwithstanding the consignment, to pass the title to the property in the bill of lading, by a suitable instrument of assignment and sale against any body, but a purchaser

SUPREME COURT.
(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

without notice from his consignee, without any actual delivery of the goods themselves, if they were then at sea, and incapable of manual tradition.
The question then is, whether theendorsement upon this bill
of lading, constitutes such- an instrument ? We are of opinion
that it does. It purports to be a transfer in presenti; and uses
the appropriate phrases of grant. The words are, "for value
received, I hereby assign and transfer to the Atlantic Insurance
Company of New-York, the within bill of lading, and the specie,
goods, kc.,. to be procured thereon and therebj, and any return cargo, to be obtained &c. by the proceeds thereof; and all
the return cargo to be taken on board the within,named ship,
by or on my account, as .collateral security, according to an
agreement dulyexecuted, and adjoined to a reSpondentia bond,
&c., (referring to the memorandum hereinafter stated.) This is
not a mere -assignment of the bill of lading itself, operating as
an equitable grant of the interest of the owner in that instruIment; but it is of the goods contained in it, and the bill of lading is referred to, by way of description of the subject mutter
of the grant. There was. a valuable consideration for it; and
as"Edward Thomson was the legal -owner of the goods, the
words "assign and transfer," are sufficient words of grant to
pass his legaltitle to the same; unless the operation of those
words is controlled by some of the other parts of the instrument. The argument admits this; but it supposes, that the
accompanying memorandum shows, that such was not the
intention of the parties; .and therefore the words are to be construed according to that intention; which was to create a mere
lien or equity on the part of the Insurance Company, on the
goods. Let us then examine the nature and scope of that memorandum. It begins by a recital, that it. hath been agreed
that the bill of lading for the goods &c. mentioned in the re,pondentia bond, shall be endorsed to the Insurance Company,
as a collateral security for the loan. This is carried into effect
by the assignment above mentioned. It then goes on to recite,
that it has been further agreed -that the property to be shipped
homeward, as aforesaid, being the proceeds of the loan, (thus
considering the specie on board, as a substituted loan,) shall be
for the account and risk of the borrowers; that the bills of lad-,
ing, therefore, shall express the same, and shall also express
that the said property shall be delivered to the order of the
shippers; and that the same shall be endorsed in blank, and
,shvll be placed in the hands of the Insurance Company, either
before or on the arrival of the said ship, at Philadelphia, as a
continuation of such collateral security.
Now, supposing the transaction bonaj de, what is there here
that controls, even by way of recital, the operation of the words

JANUIARY TERM, 1828.

447

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
of transfer. If the case were one of absolute 'transfer, there
might be some room for doubt. But here the transfer was as
collateral security. Itwas therefore a mortgage of the goods, and
the returns. The shipment out and home, was, as in each case
it must be, at the risk, and for the account of the shipper; subject however to the rights of the mbrtgagee; and the very provision that the bills of lading should be delivered to the order
of the shipper, and endorsed in blank, and placed in the hands
of the Insurance Company, establishes the fact, that it was the
intention of the parties that the property of the return cargo,
should rest by such endorsement in them. The niemorandum
then proceeds to state, that it is expressly declared that the endorsement or consignment, shall not be held to exonerate the
persons of the borrowers; nor compel the Insurance Company
to accept the goods, &c. which may arrive under such bill of
lading and consignment, in discharge of such debt; but that it
shall be lawful for the company to receive and h6ld the goods,
&c. for ninety days after their arrival at Philadelphia; and if
the debt was not then paid, to' sell the same at auction, and
charge the borrowers with the balance. The plain effect of
this stipulation is to avow an explicit understanding, that the
assignment of the goods should not put them at the isk of the
company, but that they should be deemed collateral security
only, and be sold after the limited time, to discharge the debt,
pro tanto. So far from the intention being indicated, that no
property at all was to pass to the company, the solicitude of
the parties seems most carefully employed to repel the notion,
that the transfer was absolute and not by way ofmortgage, as
collateral security. The memorandum, therefore, confirms and
does not impugn, in any degree, the naturat construction of the
language of the assignment endorsed on the bill of lading, ag
importing a presenttransfer. Indeed we may go farther and assert, that the obvious intention of the parties was to givea specific interest in the goods shipped, so as to make them-secure
against the claims of creditors; and, that to construe the instruments to create no more than a lien, liable to be defeated
by the acts of either party, oi to be overreached by any-privileged creditors, would be, not to follow, but to frustrate their
intention. Of what use could this great apparatus of instrumnents, so anxiously prepared by the parties, be, if it conveyed
nojus in re, and left the title of the Insurance Company to the
goods, at the mercy of the creditors of Thomson, to be intercepted at any time before it reached their hands, on its arrival.
We are therefore of opinion, that the assignment in this case
was sufficient to pass a legal title to the shipment and the proceeds thereof, against Thomson and his assignees and creditors.
If, indeed, the assignment had.be n of the outward shipment of

SUPREME COUR1.
(Conard vs. The Atlaftic Ifisurance-Company.)
goods only, itwould have.carried the return cargo,, purchased
with'the proceeds; because the produ'et or substitute for the
original thing by sale, or otherwise, follows the nature of the
thing itself, so long as it can be ascertained as such, and becomes the property of him who -Was the owner, in the same
qualiiy as he held the thing. This is the general principle of
law, and has been even extended to cases, where there has been
a fraudulent or tortious misapplication of property. The case
of Taylor vs. Plumer, 3 -Mau4 Sdw. 562, is directly in point;
and contains a large collection of the authorities in the elaborate opinion of the Court, pronount:ed by Lord Ellenborough.
In this view of.the matter, the only value of the homeward bill
.of lading would be as a designation of the proceeds, so as to
enable the company to trace and identify them. But the assignment, in terms, transfers the proceedsand returns, and cuts
off all possibility of question upon this head. If indeed the title
to the proceeds had originally been only an equitable title, and
not strictly legal; yet as soon as the company had perfected
that :equity, by endorsement in blank, and possession of the
homeward bills of lading, their right would have been consuimate d at law, so as to entitle them to maintain a suit therefor.. The case of Haille vs. Smith, (I Bos.4 -Pull.563,) was not
so strong as the present; and there the Court held, that the property p'assed, clothed with a trust for the payment oP the debt.
If this, then, be the result of the general principles of law, in
cases of this nature, what is there to prevent their application to
the present case? First, it is said that this debt upon a repondenin bond is of too contingent a nature to uphold a mortgage, as
collateral security for the payment of it. We know of no principle or decision, that justifies such a conclusion. Mortgages
may .as well be given to secure future advances and contingent
debts, as those which already exist, and are certain and .due.
The only question that properly arises in such cases is, the
-bonafides of the transaction. Then, again,,it is said that the
papers here disclose" a transaction fraudulent in its own nature.
But we are of opinion that there is nio necessary implication of
law on the face pf these papers, which stamps it fraudulent; for
ought that appears, the agreement may have been entered into
with the most sincere and scrupulous good faith; and whether
fraudulent or'not,. in fact, was a question for the jury upon the
whole evidence, which was properly left to their consideration;
and they have by their verdict negatived the fraud.
The circumstance, that the goods were to b.e at the risk of the
shipper and on their account, does not, of itself, affect either the
validity or bonafides of the transfer. That must ordinarily oc-

cur, where the transfer is made as collateral security, and it

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

449

(Conas&v . The Atlantic Insurance Company.)

was one of the leading facts in Haille vs. Smith, alreadr cited.
1 .Bos. - Pt l. 563.
But the main objection relied on, and which indeed constitutes one of the exceptions to'the opinion of the Circuit Court.
is, that possession of the return shipment was not obtained
until after the levy by the United States; ana it is contended,"
that the want of such possession.is,per ae,a badge of fraud. The.
Circuit Court on this point decided, "thait the actual possession of'the above return cargoesby the masters of the Superior
and Addison, until levied upon by execution at the suit 6f the
United States against Thomson, is not, per se, in law, a badge
of fraud, which ought to invalidate or affect the title of the'plaintiis to these cargoes."It appears to us that this decision is entirely correct in point
of law, under the circumstances of the case.
Without undertaking to suggest whether, -in any case, the
want of possession of the -thingsold constitutes, per se, a badge
of fraud, or is only,primafade, a presumption of fraudi a question, upon which much diversity of judgment has been express.
ed; it is sufficient to say, that in case even of an absolute sale'of
personal propertythe wantof such possessionis not presumptive
of fraud, if possession cannot, from the circumstances ol. the
property, be within the power of the parties.
A fauniliar example of this doctrine is in the case of a sale
of a ship, or goods at sea, where possession is dispensed.with
upon the'plain ground of its impossibility; and it is sufficient
if the vendee takes possessidn of the property, within'a reasonable time after its return home. But in cases where the sale is
not absolute, but conditional, the want of possession,,if consistent with the stipulations of the parties, and, aforliori, if flowing directly from them, has never been-held, per se, a badge of'
fraud. The books are full of cases on this subject. . The casa
of Bucknal vs. 'Royston, Prec. in Chamn 285, rans almost upon.
all fours With the present. -The case of Sturtevent .vs.Ballard, 9 John. 338, and Bissell vs. Hopkins, 3 Cowen, 166, contains strong illustrations of the principle; and being decisions
in che very state, by whose laws the validity of the present
agreement is to be tried, are of high authority. They §ustain
the doctrine asserted by the Circuit Court, in the mostample
manner; and there is a, learned note by the Reporter to the latter case, which embodies in an exact manner the principal authorities, English as well as American, on this subject. Now,
in the case at bar, the goods at the time of the transfer wero at
sea, on a voyage, in which they were to be sold, or exchanged
by the consignee, and the proceeds sent back in the same ships.
It was therefore properly in the contemplation of the parties,
and indeed a necessary result of their stipulations, that the
VoL. 1.
3L

450

SUPREME COUR7o

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.),
goods should not be intercepted, or taken possession of by the
company, until the close of the voyage; and that the return
shipments should conform to this arrangement.
There is no pretence to say, that the plaintiffs did not seek
possession of the goods within a reasonable time after the arrival of the goods hQme. Their power to accomplish it was dis"
lodged by the execution of the United States, and they obtained, as early as practicable, possession of the bills of lading, and
vouchers of their rights. But so far as the want of possession
was matter of evidence presumptive of fraud, it was left open
to the consideration of the jury; and the grievance now is, not
that it was so left, but that the Court ought to have instructed
the jury, as matter of law, that the want of possession, under
the circumstances of the case, was, per se, a badge of frau.
We have already expressed an opinion, that the Court were
right in the instructions actually given.
Upon the whole we are of opinion, thaq the directions of the
Court upon the merits of-the cause at thd trial, were correct in
point of law; and that consequently there is no error in that
part of the judgment.
It remains to consider very briefly, certain exceptions taken
to the testimony in the progress of the trial.
The first exception is, that the corporate capacity of the
plaintiffs was not regularly proved, before the introductiol, of
the re'ondentia bond. It is to be considered, that this was a
trial upon the merits; and bypleading to the merits, the defendants necessarily admitted the capacity of the plaintiffs to sue.
If he intended to' take the exception, it should have been done
by a plea in abatement,. and his omission so to do, was a barrier
of this objection. But, independently of this special ground,
the very agreement in the case upon which the trial was had,
as well as the admissions of the bond- given to the United
States, as security to refund the amount, if judgment should
pass against the plaintiffs, was certainly Pnimafacie, evidence of
-an admission, on the part of the United States, of the corporate
capacity of the plaintiffs, and to throw the burthen of proof oil
the other side.
The second exception was to the question put to Austin L.
Sands, whether he was agetit of the company.
We, see no objection to this question. It was put in a form
most unexceptionable; and it was a matter of subsequent inquiry, in what manner his agency was created; and it'ddes not
appear, from the nature of the question, whether it might not
have been sufficient to establish that he was an agent, de facto,
to receive the bond. It was indeed but an exception to the order of proofs, where several things are to be established to
lead to a result; and in what order the inquiry'is to be had, is

JANUARY TERM; 1828.

451

(C.pnRd M*The Atlantic Insurance vompany.)
matter of discretion in the Court itself, and not,of absolute
right in the party.
The next exception is to the allowance of the bond to go. to
the jury upon proof of its execution, by Thomson only.
It was a joint and several bond, and if executed by Thomson
alone, it'might be material to the plaintiffs' case. It was not
introduced as general evidence, as to all'the parties who were
named in it; but only-as to Thomson, and was connected with
the title derived under him. Proof of the signature of Thomson6,was, under the circumstances, primafacie evidence of his
execution of the instrument.
The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh exceptions, turned altogether upon the question whether acts and proceedings o5f third
persons, not in privity with the Insurance Company, nor known
to them, -were evidence against them? Most.clearly they were
not.

I The eighth exception involves the point, whether the plaintiffs were bound to look to the apRlication of the loan made'by
them. If not, the question'asked was properly rejected., And
we are of opinion, that the plaintiffs had nothing to do with .the
application of the money; and that when- received by Thomson, he had a right to dispose of it in any manner he ple;sed.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit Court is -t be affirmed with costs.
Mr. Justice JoHzsox.
I concur in the opinion delivered in this cause, and the
rather, because I think it overturns the report of the decisiou
in the case of Thelluson vs. Smith. It would be vain, to endearvour to reconcile this decision, with that, which is imputed
to the case referred to.
This was nothing in its origin but a mortgage to the Atlantic Insurance Company; and a mortgage of a mere right, a
metaplhysical, .transitory thing, over which tfhe act of the party
could not operate more immediately, or more forcibly, than a
judgment upon land under the laws of Pennsylvania.
But I avail myself of this 'occasion, and I have long wished
for an opportunity to put on record some remarks spon the
report of the case of Thelluson vs. Smith. I have never acknowledged its authority in my Circuit, on the point supposed
to be decided by it; to wit, the precedence of the debt of'the
United States, as to alorenousjudgment, in the case of a general
a.signment; and I propose now to shows whatlI think anyone may
see by a close inspection of the facts, even as stated in the report, to wit, that the question there suipposed to be decided,
really never was raised by the special verdict. It is true, it
was argued, and no other question, judging from, the report.

452

SUPREME' COURT.

(Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
was argued. But, when the Court came to inspect the record,'
it must have seen that the special verdict did not raisethe question, as between the parties to that suit. And,moreover, I find
that the reporter has omitted one very material'fact found in
the special verdict;, which was, that the United States had no
interest in the issue, since their judgment had been voluntarily
paid off by the assignees of Crammond the bankrupt. I copy
the special verdict entered from the original roli, which I have
inspected at the present term.
The jury found," that on the 92d of May 1805, William Crammond of Philadelphia merchant, stood indebted to the United
States in several bonds for duties, as follows z-(describing the
bonds all of which were due after the date of the assignment.)
On the respective bonds suits were brought, judgments' entered, executions issued, and a sale made of a certain real estate called Sedgely, the property of William Crammond, and
the proceeds thence arising came to the hands of the defendant John Smith marshal of Pennsylvania district, from whom
it is claimed by the plaintiffs (who tre) creditors of thd said
William Crammond on the following grounds.--A suit was
instituted by the plaintiffs, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Pennsylvania, against the said William
Crammond, as of October Sessions 1802, and a judgment in the
said suit, in favour of the plaintiffs, and against-the said Crammond, was obtained for 32,253 dollars, on the 20th of May 1805.On the 22d of May 1805, the said William Crammond was insol-'
vent, and had not sufficient property to pay all his debts. But
his insolvency was not a matter of g~neral notoriety. On the
22d day of the said month, the said William Crammond ixecuted a general assignment of his estate and effects, bearing date
the same day and year, and delivered it to the assignees therein named (prou assignment;) being on the said 22d of May,
unable to satisfy all his debts. The moneys in the hands.of the
defendants, are claimed by the assignees under the said assignment, who have satisfied the United States the amount of the delts
due the United States. If upon the whole matter," kc., in the
usual alternative form of a special verdict.
Judgnent below was rendered for defendant, and it is impossible it could have been otherwise; but not, as I. conceive,
upon the ground stated, since it is one which the verdict does,
not raise. It is true, the question was argued, but adjudications are not to have their effect from the questions argued, and
thd views taken by counsel in their points or briefs. There is
a sensible rule laid down on this subject, in a book of grave authority, and the truth -f which this Court has had occasion
to verify not unfrequently; the pu.rport of which is, that countel ought not to -move any thing in arrest of judgment, ex-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

453

(Conard v8. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
cept the roll wherein the judgment is entered, or the postea, be
in Court, 22 Cas. B. B., and the reason assigned is, that the Court
may be satisfied that the matter moved" in arrest of judgment
is truly recited from the record; for the Court will not rely
upon the allegation of counsel at the bar."
It often happens, after the most protracted discussions, that
the Court differ from counsel in their views of the questions
actually raised on the record, and on grounds which have not
been argued.
In the case of Thelluson vs. Smith, I hold it to be incontrovertible, that the question of priority could not have been adjudic'ated upon, on the verdict, as set out in the record.
The special verdict does not give the. date of the levy, and
sale by the marshal, under the judgment by the United States;
but as all .Cramnmond's bonds to the United States fell due after
the date of the assignment, it.follows that the judgment, and
necessarily all proceedings under it, were subsequent to the
execution of that deed. The iand levied on, therefore, had
passed out of Crammond before the judgment of the United
States wag obtained, and of consequence the levy and sale under
their execution, was a mere nullity. Could this furnish the
ground of an"action for money had and'received by the Thellusons, in right of a judgment prior to the consignment, agdinst
Smith the marshal? It obviously could not" For as against
the Thellusons' rights, whatever they were, nothing had passed. The purchaser of the lands at marshal's sale, who had
received nothing for the money, might have brought, such an
action against the marshal; and the assignees might have sued
for and recovered, the land; in which case it would ]save been
held by them, as before, subject to Thelluson's judgment. But
as between Thelluson and the marshal, there was no privity of
action. And this was the true ground for rendering the judgment of this Court, in the suit against the marshal.
It is true the gpecial verdict introduces the assignees into the
cause, 'as claiming the money raised by the'marshal, on the
supposition, that after satisfying the United States, they succeeded to the priority of the United States. But suppose this
recovery had been had against Smith, what was there to prevent the assignees from going on at law, to recover the land
of the vendee? They were no parties to the record,- and there
is nothing in the pleadings, or the verdict, to show that they
had intervened, or had a right to intervene in the name of the
United States. They could not maintain a right to succeed to
the United States, under the provisions of the 65th section of
the Act of 1799, 3 vol. p. 197; because' that right.is extended
only to sureties upon the bond4. If they had acquired any right
as against the Thellusons, it was a mere general equity, which

454

SUPREME COURT.

(Conard w. The Atlantic Insurance Company.)
could only have been asserted in a Court of Equity. At law,
in this ipdirect mode, it could not have been asserted, if it aould
have availed them at all.
I, at least, would have it understood that I concurred in the
judgment in the case of Thellusonvs. Smith, on no other ground
than the want of privity between the parties. Nor can I acknowledge it as authority to any other point; since the United
States were satisfied, and the assignees could not be regarded in
any view, at law, as succeeding to the priority of the United
States, if the United States had priority; and since that priority could not come in question, in a-case in which the sale ofthe
land was a mete nullity; as is distinctly affirmed in the present decision, because the assignment divested all the interest
of the insolvent, so as to place it beyond the action of thefieri
faciaW, issuing on the judgment of the United States.

Judgment affirmed, with cots.

