SUPREME COURT.

GERRIT SCHIIM1MELPENNICH, ANb JAN ADRIAN TOE LEAR, WHO
ARE ALIENS, VS. AVILLIAAM B ,YAn:D, WILLIAM BAYARD, JUN.
RoBEnT BAYARD, AND JACOB LE RoY, CITIZENS OF THE STATE
or NEw-Y6RK.
,In this case, the Court confirm, the principle estatablished in the case of
Coolidge ws.Payson, 2 Tw&ia.
75, that a etter, written within s reasonable time before or after the date of a bill of exchange, describing it in
terms not to be mistaken, and promisinglo accept it; is, if shown to the'
person who afterwards takes the bill, oi the credit of the letter, a virtual acceptance, binding the person who makes the promise. 1283}
If the drawees of'a bill of exchange, who refuse to honour the bill, and
thus deny-the authority of the drawer to draw upon them, were bound
in good faith to accept or pay the bill as drawees, they will not be permitted to change the relation in which they stood to the parfids on the
bill, bya wrongful act. They can acquire no right, as the holders of the
bill paid supra protest, if they were bound to honour it, in the charmc.
ter of drawees. {285}
A bill of exchange was drawn against shipments made to the drawee, but
no letter of advice was written by the shipper to the consignees of the
property, -and drawees of the bill, ordering the proceeds of the shipment
to be applied to, the discharge of the bill; but directions were given to
charge the bill, generally, to the account of the shipper; held that the
drawees were not bound to accept or pay the bill, in consequence of the
proceeds of the shipment being received by them. 1286}
A merchant has a riglt, by the usage of trade, to draw on effects placed
in the hands of the drawee, by shipment; and the consignee must pay
the bills, if the shipment places funds in his hands. {288}
It is believed to be a general rule, that an agent, with limited powers, cannot bind his p.-incipal, when he transcends his power. It Would seem to
follow, that a person transacting business with him, on the credit of his
principal, is bound to know the extent of his authority; 'yet, if the
principal has, by his declarations or conduct, authorized the opinion, that
he had given more extensive powers to his agent, than were in fact given,
he would iot be permitted to avail himself of the imposition, and to protest bills, the drawing of which his conduct had sanctioned. 1290
THIS action was instituted in ti6^Circuit Court of the United States, for the Southern district of New-York, upon nine
several bills of exchange, drawn at Baltimore, at sixty days
sight, by John C. Delprat, on the plaintiffs, carrying on business under the firm of N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst, Werchants
in Amsterdam, and endorsed by the defendants.
The cause was tried in April, 1825, and a verdict taken for

the plaintifi, for 939,e75 95, being for the whole amount of
their claim; subject to the opinion of the Court, upon a case

agreed.
The Judges of the Court below, having divided in opinion

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

.65

(Sclhimmelpcnnich et al. vs. Bayard et al.)
on the following points, the same were certified to this Court,
and the cause was argued upon the case 4greed, and the points
upon which there wvs a division of opinion, by the Judges of
the Circuit Court.
, 1. Whether the authority of J. C. Delprat, to draw upon
the plaintiffs, did or -did not amount to an acceptance of the
bills?
2. Vhether the bills pail by the plaintiffs, supra protest, for
the honour of the defendants, were drawn and negotiated, in
conformity to the authority and instructions of the plaintiffs,
to John C. Delprat?
S. Whether the plaintiffs were bound to accept and pay the
bills in question, and whether the same having been paid by the
plaintiffs, supra protest, for the honour of the defendants, the
plaintiffs are entitled to recover the amount of the defendants ?
4. Whether J. C. Delprat was a competent witness!
5. Whether the letter, offered by the plaintiffs in evidence,
and rejected, ought to have been admitted?
6. Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to a judgment, on the
verdict of the jury?
All the facts, with the correspondence between the parties,
which were considered by the Court as necessarily connected
with a full developnent of the case, are stated in the opinion
of the Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. O-den -and Mr. Oakley, for
the plaintiffs, and by Mr. Webster, and Mr. Ogden Hoffman,
for the defendants.
For the plaintiffs.
This action is upon bills of exchange, drawn by Delprat,
and accepted, supra protest, and paid by the plaintiffs, as they
allege, for the honour of the defendants, who were the endorsers
on the bills. It is admitted that the plaintiffs, being drawees
of the bills, could accept and pay in thic form; but it is claimed, that the bills were drawn under the arrangement between
them and Delprat, and they were bound to accept them; that
arrangement being a promiseso to do.
This is the same question, as if the defendants in this suit
had brought an action against the plaintiffs, on those bills, as
accepted bills.
Does the authority to draw, create a promise to accept? It
is admitted that the law of France is, that acceptance shall be
on the face of the bill. The law of France is the law of Holland. We deny that the contract between the plaintiffs is such
a promise to accept, as that, even if all its provisions and conditions had been complied with, any third Darty could have
taken advantage of it.
VOL. I.
LI

266

SUPREME COURT.

(Schiminelpennich et al. vs. Bayard ct al.)
As it related to the parties themselves, it was a good promisc, when Delprat conformed to the provisions of the arrangeinent; but strangers had no right to avail themselves of this.
The promise in the contract was made to Delprat, and was not
assignable in its very nature.
It is only when the promise points to some bill drawn, or to
be drawn, with such minuteness and certainty as to sums, time,
and parties,/as that it may be considered a complete transaction, and a finished agreement, that the promise can avail to
the use of third parties; and then it does not so avail as a promise to accept, but as an actual acceptance.
There is no case of aparol promise to accept, being considered as an acceptance; and the doctrine has been already carried too far, so as to become the subject of regret. But there
is no case which goes as far, as the plaintiff claims in this.
Cases cited, S.Bur. 1665. 1 East, 98. 4 .East, 57. Wynne vs.
Raikes, 5 East, 54. Cooledge vs. Pavson, 2 Wheat. 66. Starkej, 411.
All those cases rest on the express promise to accept. Goodrich vs. Gordon, 15 John. 6. Why, if the authority to draw was
a promise to accept, say, there was also a promise to accept?
The case of Cooledge vs. Payson, 1- Wheat. 66, before this
Court, settled all the principles relative to an obligation to accept; and this case does not come within the rules of law there
established. The principles decided by the Court in that case,
were in the language of the Court:
"Upon a review of the case, this Court is of opinion, that a
letter, written within a reasonable time before or after'the date
of a bill of exchange, describing it in terms not to bc mistaken,
and promising to accept it, is, if shown to the person who
afterwards takes the bill on the credit of the letter, a virtual
acceptance, binding the person who makes the promise."
The decision of the Supreme Court of New-York, recognises
the same principles. That case wasGordon was sending'a sloop from New-York to Savannah,
during war. Hogan wrote a letter of instructions, viz. "should he
be captured ransom the vessel, as low as possible,not to exceed
%,000 dollars, and your draft on me will be duly honoured." He
was captured, and drew the bill, for ransom, within 1he sum,
and gave the letter, with the bill.
Chief Justice Marshall says, "the testimony is full evidence
that tlis letter, at all times, accompanied the bill-that the bill
was drawn on the faith of it;-and that it was on the faith of
this letter that the plaintiff, who' was an endorser, took the bill
from the first endorser-and it would be a gross want of faith,
now, to disclaim the captain's authority.
The arrangements between the plaintiffs and Mr. belprat,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

267

(Schinmelpennich et al. vs. Bayard et al.)
werepersonaltohim, and could have no effect upon the transactions of others. They were to operate on the general business
to be carried on between them, and their main object was, consignmints to the plaintiffs. Mr. Delprat might purchase parts
of cargoes, and they were willing to "facilitate" all such commercial operations of his, as "they could without prejudice to
themselves."
Under this arrangement, Mr. Delprat purchased and shipped
goods, drew for them, aid the proceeds of the shipments wvere
carried to his account, and the bills paid, and charged to him.
The defendants were not parties in those transactions, and they
stood as mere purchasers of the bills in the market.
These transactions are similar to many others in the United
States, and have never been considered as involving an obligation to accept the bills, of which a purchaser can take advantage. Such a responsibility,' on the part of the drawees of a
bill, would give to it a greater effect, when in the hands of an
assignee, than it had before the transfer.
There is no usage making the authority to draw an acceptance. There is no case in which it has been ever so held; and
it is inconsistetit with the negotiable nature of bills.
The question, therefore, which has been raised, is met in its
most imposing form, with an aiiswer in the affirmative;
when acting under such an arrangement as that between the
plaintiffs and Mr. Delprat, could the plaintiffs take thegoods
shipped to them, and refuse to pay to a third person, the bills
drawn upon those goods? It is considered they could; such is
the mercantile law, and it cannot be otherwise.
Bills of exchange are purchased on the faith of the names
upon them, and not under an expectation that there is a collateral obligation to pay them, on the part of the drawee. There
is always an expectation, that the bills will be paid; but this
expectation does not constitute a legal right against the drawee.
In reference to the present bills, it appeais from the testimony,
that the defendants actually charged Mr. Delprat a commission
for endorsing them; without which, they could not havd been
advantageously negotiated.
It is said, that the shipments were made in trust to pay these
bills, and that the plaintiffs could not take the property free
from the trust; Let this be so; but who can enforce the trust.
Certainly not the assignees, as the trust is not assignable. To
the drawer, only, would the parties under such circumstances
be answerable. The agreement made by the plaintiffs and Delprat, was never performed by him, in any case; and thus the
danger is manifested, of giving to a stranger, rights which
Delprat would not have had himself. No lien existed on the
goods, by which the payment of the bills could have been en-

2M

SUPREME COURT.

(Schimmelpennich et al. v8. Bayard eta].)
forced; no such lien has ever been supposed to exist; all liens
require possession in the party or his agent. The goods in this
case went to Holland; the bills were sent to England; where
- is the possession to maintain the lien?
If the bills had been drawn upon particular shipments, and
the invoices and bills of lading of the goods had been delivered with tdie bills, the plaintiffs being so advised, by Delprat;
then they must have opened a particular account with the party holding the bills, and have paid them out of the shipments.
As to.,the suggestion of an equitable lien on the goods, for
the payment of those bills; it cannot be contended, that the
holder of the bills could follow the goods and enforce it. The
law of Russia, gives a party a right to follow goods until lie
is paid, but this is not the law here. The policy of the English law, and that of all commercial countries, is, that the
paper is disconnected with the property.
It is well settled law, that where goods are carried, under a
permission to draw, the bills of lading being remitted fixes the
property in the consignee, against the creditors of the consignor, although they get the goods. 1 Bos. 4- Pul. 56I. 3
Chitty, 550. If A sends goods'to B, and directs him to pay the
proceeds to C, this creates no lien in favour of C. 1 Starkey,
123. 143. 14 East, 558. Chilty, 550.
Mr. Delprat was not the agint of the plaintiffs,, under the
contract, to draw the bills. He stood in no other relation to
them, than that of a corresponding merchant, with like powers. He did not draw the bills as agent; they were said to be
on his qwn account, nor did he pretend to bind the plaintiffs,
by his 'acts, as his principals. Baylez on Bills, 156. 64. S Term
Rep. 757. Ohitty on Bills, 31. Agency may be inferred from
analogous acts, but they must be of that character. There is
no proof that similar bills were ever paid by the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs sent to the defendants their contract with Mr.
Delprat, to show that they had granted him the credit. In
their letter to the defendants, they do not say any-thing about
the authority to draw; in reference to the credit, they desired
the defendants to supervise the transactions of Delprat; in reference to any bills he might draw, they would take care of
themselves, by refusing to accept them.
There is an answer to all the allegations, as to lien, and to
an alleged liability to accept. The bills, it is manifest, were not
taken on the credit of the drawees.
Mr. Oakley, for the defendants.
The mercantile house'of the plaintiffs, at Amsterdam, were
desirous to extend their business in the United States; and they
employed Mr. Delprat,. giving him authority to draw upon
them, according to particular dir!ctions, and with a credit of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

269

(Schimnielpennich et al. vs. Bayard et aL.)
40,000 dollars; with the defendants. He acted under this arrangement for four years, and then failed; and the question is,
who shall sustain the loss arising in the course of his transactions, out of bills drawn by him, upon the plaintiffs. Th- business between Mr. Delprat and the plaintiffs, was not confined
to the contract, nor were his acts in conformity to it; and yet
the plaintiffs went on, without communicating to the defendants; who were deepl'y connected with them in mercantile business, and who had been particularly invited to an agency in
their arrangements with Mr. Delprat; that their confidence
in Mr. Delprat, their agent, had diminisled, or they proposed
to withdraw the agency from him.
They.suddenly break off the relations between them and Mr.
De'prat, and refuse to pay bills, drawn on property which had
been shipped to them,-and which were to provide for the paymient of the bills; taking the funds, the proceeds of the goods,
to the credit of their general balance, arising out of their several transactions; and they then pay the bills, supra protest,
for the honour of the defendants, who were endorsers on the
bills. Can thin be done .- can they take the goods, and not pay
the bills?
Had'the plaintiffs a right to accept the bills supraprotest, for
the honour of the defendants?
He who gives aa acceptance for the honour of a party, must
do it before he accepts generally, "or any ways engages or
obliges himself thereto." I Lex. Merc. (Malyn) AMarims advice
concerning Bills of.xclange, 30, S1. In 1 Lord Raymond, 38,
Lord Holt says, "an acceptor for honour of drawer,'is when
a stranger, Having no effects of.drawer, accepts out of respect to
the drawer." The principle there, is that there can be no acceptance supra protest, for the honour of any party, when the
acceptor is under any obligation, legal or equitable, as it respects that pa'ty to accept generally. This results from the
nature of acceptance supraprotet.
The rules of law are1. An acceptor supraprotest,may demajid a recompense, for
the credit given him, for whose honour he accepts, Beawes's
Lex. Ierc.f. 44; and if he re-draws, his bill ought to be readily
complied with, besides a gratfulacknowledgment oj the favour.
2. Where a bill is paid supra protest, the payee may re-draw,
with addition of commission, and it ought, in gratitude, to be
punctually complied with. Ibid.pl. 6., 64.
Such acceptance must therefore be gratuitous,with a just motive; and without c6nnexion with, or reference! to the interests
of the acceptor.
To examine this case, according to these principles.-1. As between the plaintiffs and the defendants, were those

270

SUPREME COURT.

(Schimmelpeniich et a]. vs. Bayard et al.)
bills such as should be considered as accepted bill8; or bills
Which the plaintiffs 'were "in any ways obliged to accept?"
They were; because they were drawn by Mr. Delprat:1. In pursuance of his written authority.
9-. If not in pursuance of a general authority, this authority
was to be inferred from the general course of business. An
authority to draw a bill, is virtually an acceptance of the bill,
drawn in conformity to it. 9 Mass. 11. 2'Wheat. 72. 2 Galli.
son, 238.
2. A promise to accept a bill, is an acceptance, if the holder has taken the bill on the faith of the promise; although the
bill is for a pre-exi8tent debt, or whether t),e promise be before
or after the bill is drawn. This is also the law,-although the
promise be obtained from the drawee fraudulently.
S. A general authority to draw bills, is equivalent to an acceptance of all bills drawn; or to a promise to accept all.
The facts in this case, were:,By the agreement of January 11, 1818,. between the plaintiffs
and Mr. Delprat, he was their agent-I. To form commercial
connexions. 2. To promote consignments. S. To act as directed in the agreement. As the plaintiffs' agent, Mr. Delprat
was bound-1. To act for no other persons in procuring consignments, either from himself or from othdrs. 2. To use his
utmost efforts, for the- benefit of the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs were bound-i. To facilitate Mr. Delprat's
commercial operations, without prejudice to themselves.
The objects of this agreement were, to procure consignments,
and that Mr. Delprat should act as the commercial agent of
the plaintiffs, generally; and the means of accomplishing them,
were to draw billsU,to make advances on cargoes, and for which
he was also to use the credit opened with the defendants. To
the consignments, there was no limit; and of course, they could
go beyond the credit.
-From a view of all the letters between the parties, and the
evidence, it is manifest, that Mr. Delprat acted as the general
agent of the plaintiffs; to draw bills tor advances on consignments, independent of the credit of 40,000 dollars, and after it
was reyoked. 2. That the plaintiffs paid such bills without
regard to the balance of accounts with him, down to July 182 2
and S. That, the plaintiffs never set up the objection, that the
bills were drawn without authority, until October, 1822.
It is contended, that the agency of Mr. Delprat for the plaintiffs, appears-I. By the written agreement of the parties. 2.
.By the relative situatioii of himself and the plaintiffs, he being
a commercial agent to procure consignments, by making advances by drafts on the plaintiffs. 3. In the course of the bu-

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

71

(Schimmelpennich et al. vs. Bayard et al)
6iness, and the long habit of the plaintiffs in paying the drafts
drawn by him.
The authority of an agent may be shown-i. By his written
power; or i4 the absence of that, by himself. - 2. From the relative situati6n of the parties. S. From the habits and course
of dealing between the parties. 4. From the recognition of the
acts of the agent, by the principal, or by similar acts. The evidence estlblishes the agency of Mr. Delprat, for the plaintiffs,
upon all these principles. As to the bill for £1,000, of July
31,1822--1. It was paid before it was due-It was drawn at 60
days; presented on the 14th September, and paid on the 1st
October following. 2. There can be no payment suraprotest,
until a demand and refusal of payment regularly made. This
refusal cannot be until the bill falls due. Chitty on Bills, S18.
Had the plaintiffs a right to pay those bills supraprotst?
1. In case of acceptance upra protest for honour of the endorser, the bill must be presented'for payment, and duly protested. Clitly, SS..
2. If the drawee has a-.cepted supra pkotest, for want of funes
or. effects, and ifterwards receives effects; he is bound to discharge the endorser, and to advise-him that he will pay. Beawes'8
Lex. erc. 109. Thus, there may be an obligation to pay, when
there was none to accept. As to the ,bills of July 31, 1822, for
£1,000, and 5,000 guilders, they were drawn on shipments by
the Virginia. The plaintiffs were so addressed-the consignment of the property was received by the plaintiffs, after protest for non-acceptance, and before the bills were paid. They
were, therefore, bound to pay those bills out of the proceeds of
those shipments.
The plaintiffs cannot take this property, and apply it to their
general account with Mr. Delprat, refusing to -pay the bills
drawn or. advances on the very property. The shipments,
when they were advised of the facts, were received by them,
subject to an equitable lien, iii favour of the holders of their
bills; and they have a right to their application to the payment
of the bills.
As to the bills paid before the arrival of the ships. 1.
Payment, supra protest, is evidence of' money paid to the use
of the defendants. It is an equitable action, and admits of any
equitable defence. Can it be sustained, after effects to pay the
bills have come into the hands of the plaintiffs ? Does not the
receiptof-the proceeds of theproperty,-reimburse the plaintiffs
in the payment ?
Equity will frequently give a party relief, in effect amounting
to a lien, though -not -in possession of the goods, to have his
demand satisfied out of the proceeds of the goods, in prefer-

972

SUPREME COUT.
.(Schiihmelpennich et a]. w. Bayard et al.)

ence to any other party. Chitl/'i Conmercial and Afariti e
Law, 550-1.

The defendants ask the application of this principle to the
bills upon which this suit has been instituted.
Mr. Ogden, same side.
This action is to oblige the defendants to pay the amount of
bills paid for their honour, and which they 'say should have
been paid by the drawees. The plaintiffs received the property,
,against which the bills were drawn; and the question is, whether.property could be received, and the bills drawn upon it be
left unprotected? The consignee of property is nothing more
than a trustee, to receive the property, and appropriate the proceeds to the use of the consignee, and he must c6nform to the
directions of the consignor. In this case, the bills of exchange
, drawn by Mr. Delprat, were the direction as to the appropria..
ation of those funds.
It is no answer to this, to say, that the consignor is a debtor
to the consignee; and that upon the principle that a consignee
can pay his general balanice out of goods, which come into his
hands, the plaintiffs would make use of the funds, for their
own purposes. They'could not get possession of the property,
but by a wrongful act; as they had not a right to receive it on
an other terms, but those prescribed by the shipper. Those
bills, or the letters of advike, state, that they were drawn for
advances on goods shipped.
1. May not the drawees of the bills be considered as assignees of this property, bound to appropriate the proceeds to the
payment of the bills? This would be the case in equity.
In New-York, the point has been decided. If the consignee
takes goods, he takes them subject to the lien on them.
The evidence shows, that Mr. Delprat was the agent of the
plaintiffs, engaged in making shipments to them, against
which he drew bills, similar to those in which this suit is
brought; and that between January and July, 122, he shippe'd
goods to the plaintiff to a very large amount; upon'which bills
were drawn, and which were accepted by the plaintiffs, and
were paid. Mr. Delprat was the- general agent of the p laintiffs: Payley on .dgeni, 2. 1 W'~ashington's 2ep. 19. 11 Mass.
Rep. 55.
It is said an authority to draw, is not an agreement to accept. What else is it, but an implied promise to accept? In
Cooledge vs. Payson, 7 4eat., this Court has decided the point
as to a particularbil--these are bills of a partg'cular dass. It is
not necessary that the bill shall express to be drawn as agent,
to bind the principal.: the contrary practice is universal, and
it was the practice not to draw the bills of those parties in
that form. If it shall be said that Mr. Delprat had authority

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

27$

(Schimmelpennich et aL ts. Bayard et al.)
to draw bills under )articular agreement, and that those bills
were not drawn in conformity with that agreement; the answer
is, that the letter of the plaintiffs, announcing their refusal to
accept the bills, does not state the refusal to have been on that
ground.
It has been decided, that if underwriters refuse an abandonment, for reasons assigned, they cannot, afterwards, on the trial,
allege other reasons for not paying the loss. The objections made
by the plaintiffs to the bills, were, that accounts were not kept
and settled by Mr. Delprat; and that i balance was due to
them for their shipinents; not because 6f mal-agency. The
facts of the case show that those bills were drawn in conformity with instructions.
But, even if they had not, still the principals were bound.
The law is so settled, even if the agent violates instructions.
2 Kent's Commentaries, 484. Another pbint in this case, which
is in favour of the defendants, rests on the particular situation
of the two houses of trade, formed by the parties to this cause.*
Whatever may be the law as between strangers, the attempt
made by the plaintiffs to throw those bills on the defendants, is
a violation of the good faith which had always existed between,
them.
Between them, the highest confidence existed. The defendants were agents for a large amount of the stocks of the United States, held by persons in Holland, and which were under
the care of the plaintiffs; and they had large transactions for'
mutual benefit.
In 1818, Mr. Delprat was appointed, by the plaintiffs, their
commercial agent, and was recommended to the particular
care of the defendants, who were asked to "facilitate his operations."
The agreement with Mr. Delprat was enclosed to
the deferlants, for the purpose of showing to them the nature
of his agency, and informing them of his powers, and of the
credit they had given to him. The defendants were to render
such services, as would enable Mr. Delprat to execute the purposes of the contract. Thus were the defendants brought into a close connexion with Mr. Delprat, for the purpose of promoting the designs and interests of the plaiitiffs; and those
bills, believed by them to be drawn in the regular course of the
transactions, authorized by the relations between Mr. Delprat
and the plaintiffs; were endorsed to " facilitate the operations"
of Mr. Delprat, supposed to be beneficial to all parties.
It is said that the plaintiffs were, by thecontract entered into by
them with Mr.Delprat, to have nothing to do with the drawing of
bills. They did not so construe the agreement, nor did the plaintiffs so considerit. The construction of commercial agreements
,is bestmade bythe understanding of the parties to them, and the
Voi. I,
M in

'274

$U PRFIM

COURT.

(S chimmelpennich et a]. vs. Bayard et al.)
itse" made of the same. The evidence shows, that the con.
.,truction which was assumed as proper, by the defendants, and
upon which they acted, in endorsing those bills; had been frequently affirmed, in the 'course of forme: transactions, by the
plaintiffs.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.This action was brought on nine bills of exchange, drawii by
John C. Delprat, on the plaintiffs, and cndorsed by the defendants, a list of which follows.£500 favour of . P. Kraft.
Bltimore May 23,189.2,
200 favour of defendants.
"
27 '"
"

.''

"

''

'

*'€

500

500

1,000

c

4
"
S00
4
1,000
"
"
"
" "'C fr.10,000
C
" cc
5,000
These bills were regilarly protested for non-acceptance and
non-payment; but were accepted and paid, supraprotest, by the
drawees,for thehonourof the defendants the endorsers. The jury
found a:verdict for the plaintiffs, subject to the opinion of the
Court, on a case stated. The Judges were divided in opinion, on
the following points, which have been certified to this Court.m1. Whether the authority to John C. Delprat to draw on the
plaintiffs, did, or did not, amount to an acceptance of the bills.
2. Whether the bills paid by the plaintiffs, supra protest, for
the honour of the defendants, were drawn and negotiated in
conformity to the auithority and instructions of the plaintiffs
to J. C. Delprat.
S. Whether the plaintiffs were bound to accept and pay the
bills in question, and whether the same having been paid by the
plaintiffs, supraprotest, for the honour of the defendants; the
plaintiffs are entitled to recover the amount of the defendants..
4. Whether J. C. Delprat was a competent witness.
5. Whether the letter offered by the plaintiffs in evidence, and
rejected, ought to have been admitted.
6. Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to a judgment, on the.
verdict of the jury.
These questions require an examination of the relations which
exjsted between the drawer of these bills, and the drawees.
On tl~e 11th January 1818, the plaintiffs entered into a contracL
with' John C. Delprat, of which the following is a copy-.
The undersigned N. and J. and R. Van Staphorst, merchants
in this city, and John C. Delprat of Philadelphia, present thl,
64
4

June 12
" 18
July Si

"

,a

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

275

(Schimmelpennich et al. vs. Bayard et Al.)
fast, choosing for the present act his domicilium citandi et exequendi, at the office of the youngest notary here, have entered
with one another into the following arrangement and stipulations:ARTICLE 1. The second undersigned (viz. J. C" .Delprat)
shall, to the benefit of the first undersigned (N. and L and R.
V. S.) manage ii the United States of America, the mercantile interest of said first undersigned, consisting chiefly in.
the forming of new solid connexions, and procuring of consignments; and shall further perform every thing the first undersigned will appoint him to do as their agent.
ART. II. The sec6nd undersigned, binds himself to procure
to no person or persons in this kingdom, any consignments or
commissions from himself or any other, except to the first undersigned; but on the contrary, to use his utmost exertions towards the benefit of the mercantile house of the first undersigied, they being willing on their side to facilitate all such commercial operations as might benefit the second undersigned,
without their prejudice.
ART. III. The first undersigned allows to the second undersigned the faculty to value on them direct, or payable in London, at no shorter date than sixty days sight, for such moneys
as the setond undersigned shall employ to make advances on
whole or part of cargoes of current articles, viz. to the amount
of two tHirds of the invoice price of articles laden in chartered
vessels, and of three-fourths in vessels owning to the shippers,
and likewise "consigmedto the first undersigned; it being left to
the knowledge and prudence of the second undersigned to judge
of the invoice price of the aforementioned goods; and it being
understood that the second undersigned, at the same time that
he gives advice of his" drafts furnished in the above manner,
shall enuose and forward, or cause to be enclosed and forwarded, to the first undersigned, the bill of lading and invoice of the
goods on which the above mentioned advances might have been
made; and shall -cause the above goods to be duly insured in
America, to that effect, that the policy of said insurance be delivered up, duly endorsed, to the second undersigned, and rests
witlh1m until thre end of the expedition. It being further a fixed
rule, that the first undersigned must never come in the predicaxnent of having made any advances on cargoes or part of cargoes, which are not duly insured in America.
The first undersigned further oblige themselves to open a
credit of 940,000, say forty thousand dollars, with Messrs. Le
Roy, Bayard & Co. New-York, to be made use of by the second
vndersigned,in case any advances are requiredon consignments to
be made to tl said first underskled. that'erdit 'to be renewed

276

SUPREME COURT.

(Schinmelpennich et al. w. Bayard et al.)
evertj time blythe said first undersigned, after the arrivement of
the consigned goods shaH have been duly advised by tliem.
If, however, against all probability, it happened that the
multiplicity of consignments rendered it desirable to the first
undersigned, to stop for a while further consignments, then
the sai first undersigned retain the FACULTY to prescribe to
the second undersigned such limits and orders as they shall find
proper according to circumstances, which orders and limits
the second lindersigned shall be obliged to follow.
ART. IV. As sometimes an opportunity might offer to procure a good consignment to the first undersigned, on condition
of their taking an interest in that expedition, they authorize
the second undersigned to make use likewise of the above mentioned credit of 940,000, to interesthefirst undersigned;in such expeditions for a proportion not -larger than one-fourth, with this
restriction, that said proportion must never exceed the amoupt
of 910,000, say ten thousand dollars. TJhe choice of the articles to be shipped to the first undersigned on-their own account, being left to the-'commercial knowledge of the second
undersigned. This authorization will be considered as renewed after the termination of each expe( ition, viz. after that termination shall have been duly advised to the second undersigned by the first undersigned.
ART. V. That the first undersigned, in consideration of the
services to be rendered by the second undersigned, sha-l grant to the second undersigned, one-third of the amount of the two
-percent. commission, to be earned by the first undersigned on
the consignments to be procured, and further one per cent. from
the'purchase of such goods which might be shipped for the account of the first undersigned, as is more amply specified in ar,
ticle 4; it is. to be understood, that then no benefit arises from
the third of tba two per cent. commission of those goods; and
finally, that the'second undersigned is promised an allowance
for travelling, and other expenses, the sum of 92,000, say two
thousand dollars, per annam, to commence with the first of
February 1818.
ART. VI. These arrangements shall last for the term of iwo
consecutive years, and thus end with the last day of January
1820. It being understood that (in case of no denunciation to
the contrary, made by any of the parties aforesaid) this contract will-be continued from year to year, but that in case one
of the parties should desire the annullation of the present contract, said party shall be obliged to signify his intention to the
other party, four months before the expiration thereof.
ART. VII. Ultimately it has been stipulated, that in the unhoped for and wvholly unexpected case of any differences taking
place between the undersigned, repecting the fulfilment of any

JANUARY TERIM, 18298.

277

(Schimmelpennich et al. s. Bayard et al.)
of the articles above mentioned, those disputes-or differences
shall be entirely adjusted and decided by the decision dotwo
arbiters, to be chosen in the city of Amsterdam, one by each
party, who in case of difference of opinion between them, shall
have the FACULTY of appointing a third or super arbiter, which
arbiters then must decide and finally terminate all such differences; both parties renunezating to all law measur, and irnpedients, and especially to the facdty of laying any arrests, or hi*drance, on moneys, goods, or possessions, belonging'to any one
of the parties undersigned, all such aforesaidmeasures to be considered now and then as nul, void, and of no effect whatsoever,
the consequences thereof to be suffered by the party which
might have made use of the aforesaid measures.
Of the present act have been made two co Ies, &c.
.dmsterdam, 11th January 1818.

(Signed)

N.'&: J. & R.

VAN STAPxonsr.

C. DELPRAT.
A copy of this contract was, transmitted by the plaintiffs to
the defendants, in a letter dated the 21st of the same month, a
copy of which follows:Messrs. LE Roy, BAYARD k Co. N. York, (confidential.)
dmsterdan, 21st Jan. 1818.
Gentlemen-Thinking it useful for the extension of our commercial relations in the line of consignmeits, (one -of the
branches of our establishment,) to appoint an agent to that
-purpose in the United States of America, we have been decided by the confidence we place in the character and pommercial notions of Mr. John C. Delprat, to appoint that gentleman
to the aforementioned trusts, in which choice we have chiefly
been directed by the reliance we have on the principles of loy.*
alty and trudence, which must actuate a person employed during suchi a long period by your worthy house. We judged
it necessary for the obtaining of said purpose, to leave at the
disposal of Mr. Delprat, ufiientmeans tofalitatehis exertion,
viz. by opening with you in his favour, a credit to be made'use
of by him, in the mannerpointed out in the enclosed abstractof
our coxtract with said gentleman. We therefore request and
authorize you to furnish Mr. Delprat to the extent of 940.N0,
say forty thousand dollars, (to be made advances with by him on
such cargoes orpart thereof, as he mightyrocure the consignnient
of to our house, and to be made use of to interest our house in part
of cargoes to theforementionedpurpose.) The credit to run for
the space of two years, unless countermanded by us, in such a
manner that when Mr. Delprat has availed himsef of the whole
orpart of said credit of 40,000, that credit .or part of the same
must be considered renewed when you receive our approbation
,of the said disposition of Mr. Delprat.
JOHN.

£78

SUPREME COURT.
(Schimmelpenmich et al. w.Bayard et at)

You will observe the sole object of the mission of Mr. Delprat, is to obtain solid consignments from good houses throughout the U. S., and the disposal of the credit opened in his behalf with your house, isexclusively intended to facilitate said business. In this important matter, it will be a point of great
security, and as such, eminently satisfactory to us, that our
said agent may be able to have recourse in every circumstance,
to wise and friendly counsel, and we therefore request you to
assist Mr. Delprat, as far as opportunity may offer, with the
lessons of your long experience, particularlywith respect to those
transactionsfor which, by virtue of the credit aforementioned, we
may have recourse to your cash, it being, as you will observe, a
-materialpoint that we are secured, that the moneys he mm dipose
of will have no otherthan the destinationjust mentioned. To this
effect we authorize you, gentlemen, incase of moralcertainty, that
the moneys Mr. Delratslwuld demandfrom you by virtue of the
abovementioned credit, would not be employed in the aforenmentioned manner, and earnestly request you not topay and to refuse
him any moneys whatsoever, on account of the above credit.
In general, as a trust of this nature, which is to have its effect at such a distance, is always a delicate matter, we must
claim and dare expect from your known sentiments towards
us, that you will give the strictest attention to the line of conduct followed by Mr. Delprat; and if, unexpectediy, that conduct could appear in the least exceptionable, we mean either
imprudent or equivocal, then, gentlemen, do give us, with all
the frankness of long experienced friendship, your ideas respecting that -subject, and be perfectly secure that every information,
of what Dature soever, will not only be thankfully acknowledged
by us, but received with the most religious secrecy. We have
now, gentlemen, only to request your kind offices in favour of
yourfriendly co-operation towards the
Mr,Delprat, and &,.clidt
attainingthe object of his mission,.which we are fully persuaded
can be much facilitated by your kind recommendation to the
numerous friends you have in different parts of your country.
Be assured, gentlemen, of the higl- sense we have of the obligation we will haive to you, for your friendly services through
the whole of the business w6 just now took the liberty to explain
to you, and of the earnest desire we havdto be often in the opportunity of rendering you the like,- or a;iy services in our
power. Referring for commercial*information to our general
letter of this date, we are, with sincere regard,
Gentlemen, your most.obedient servants,
N. & J.& R. VAN STAPHORST.

(Endorsed,) Confidential. Amsterdam, 21st of January, 1818.'
N. and J.and R. Van Staphorst. Received, March 29th. Answered, 24th do.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

279

(Sehimmelpennich et al. w. Bayard et al.)
This letter was answered by Le Roy, Bayard & Co. in the
following terms :PRIVATE.

New-York,9 4th of March 1818.
Messrs. N. Sc ". Fx R. VAN STAPHOnST, Amsterdam.
Gentlemen-We have the honour of replying to your esteemed favour of 21st of January, acquainting us with the arrangement you have made with our mutval friend, Mr. Delprat, who
has uindertaken the agency of procurirg you consignments from
this country. In the furtherance of the object, we shall be very
happy to render our services useful, and beg to offer our best
wishes for the success of Mr. Delprat's operations in your'behalf. Due note is taken of the credit you are pleased to open
to that gentleman with us, to the amount of 40,000 dollars, subject to renewal, as fully expressed in your letter. We doubt not
from the knowledge we possess of Mr. Delprat's character, that
he will fully justify the confidence you repose in him; and though
he may, under existing circumstances, find it difficult to enlarge
to the extent that could be mutually wished, we are persuaded
that no exertion will be wanted on Mr. Delprat's part, to reap
the utmost benefit from the mission intrusted to him.
Believe us, with honour and esteem, gentlemen,
Your obedient servants,
LE Roy, BAYARD Sc Co.
It is proper to observe, that several merchants of Holland,
whose agents the plaintiffs were, had become large holders of
government stock, and of shares in the Bank of the United
States. Le Roy, Bayard S Co. had been employed to draw
the interest and dividends, and to remit them to Europe. The
credit of 40,000 dollar , therefore, which was raised for Delprat, with Le Roy, Bayard & Co., was merely the application
of so much of their funds, in the United States, to the business
of his agency, in aid of the bills he -was authorized to draw on
them. The continuance or discontimance of this credit, inight
depend on the eligibility of continuing this mode of remittance,
as well as on the withdrawal of their confidencelin their agetit.
Several letters passed between the plaintiffs and defendants, respecting their transactions in consequence of this credit; which
manifest, unequivocally, the desire of the plaintiffs that its
amount should not be exceeded, but which betray no waiit of
confidence in Delprat. In a letter of the 24th June, 1819, the.
renew the credit of 40,000 dollars; and add, "at the same time,
we confirm our former orders not to exceed said amount, for
our account. In case you have funds in hand, for any ol
our institutions, and you think proper to remit us for the
same, Mr. Delprat's bills on us; the nature of which you are.
well acquainted with; you allow him then, the same credit

SUPREME- COURT.
(Schimmelpennich et al. v8. Bayard et at)
which you'do to all persons from. whom you take bills, in the
persuasion of their solidity, and of the reality of the transaction
on which the bills are issued.
In answer to this letter, the defendants say, on the 94th of
September, 1819: "You also accord us the permission to remit this gentleman's, (Delprat's) drafts, for any moneys we
may have on~hand belonging to your various institutions. The
confidence which we mutually have in this gentleman's character, must, with us, act in lieu of vouchers, to 'xhibit the reality of transactions, which may give origin to stich drafts; the
whole of this gentleman's op'erations having been hitherto beyond our immediate knowledge."
This correspondence continued until the 12th of May, 1820,
when N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst addressed a letter to Messrs.
Le Roy, Bayard & Co. of which the following is an extract:
"There being frequent opportunities of drawing here, now,
on New-York, we will probably have, for some time to come,
occasion to dispose of the dividends which "1you will receive for
our account, in October next," and so on; and we have therefore directed Mr. Delprat not to make use of his credit of
940,000, lately opened in his favour. We thus also request
you, y the present, to consider the same as annulled, until we
may again renew the same."
The agency of Delprat continued after this revocation of his
credit with Le Roy, Bayard & Co. He continued to solicit
consignments for their house in Amsterdam, and to draw bills
on them for advances, without any other alteration in his powers, than is contained in a letter of the 6th Feb. 1821, which
contains the following clause. "The advances, therefore, to be
made by you on ourbehalf on shipments to our consignments, either from fundsbelonging to us,in yourhands,orbydrawing and
endorsing the shipper's draft, must not exceed, henceforth~one
half of the "true invoice.". As a compensation for this reduction of the advance to be made in the United States, . &
N. & R. Van Staphorst, engaged, on the arrival of the shipments, t6 remit to the consignors, the estimated value of tht
cargoes, in bills on their house in the United States.
Delprat acknowledged the'receipt of this letter on the 17th
of April, 1821, and promised to conform to its directions.
The correspondence between the plaintiffs and defendants,
respecting Mr. Delprat's agency, appears to have ceased on the
12th of May,.1820, when his credit with the house of the latter
was annulled. At least, no subsequent letter appears in the record, until the 9th of July, 1822, when the plaintiffs announced to the defendants the sudden termination of their connexion with Mr. Delprat; whose conduct, they said, has been so
imprudent as to oblige them, at the same time, to protest se-

IANUARY TERM, 1828.

281

(SchImmelpennich et al. vs. Bayard et al.)
veral of his.drafts. Their knowledge, they say, of the former
intercourse between Le Roy, 'Bayard & Co. and Mr. Delprat,
and of the great regard felt for him by those gentlemen, induce them to'state the chief reasons which compelled them to
this measure. These are, his irregularities in keeping his accounts, and omission to furnish an account since the 81st of
December, 1820, although the balance then due from him was
fully 97837 54, being 1for the proceeds of gin consigned by us
to him; for proceeds of draffs, issued by him on us, for our
account, in order to employ the proceeds to make prudent advances with," &c.
They then proceed to state, that Mr. Delprat owed, at that
date, upwards 9f 82,000 florins, against- which he might be
entitled to a credit of $6000.
The account, they say, has accrued to this height, in a great measure, 1 in consequence of
shipments made to him for his account, in full confidence of his
making us, for the amount, remittances; which we till now have
not received; though the goods were, with him, for many
months." The letter complains of the large advances made by
Mr. Delprat, on consignments, notwithstanding their repeated
remonstrances; and dwells on the high opinion they had en-,
tertained of him; "his integrity," they say, they " even now
will not question." Thus, the letter proceeds, " were matters
situated, when last Friday, contrary to any thing we could expect or anticipate, we 'found ourselves drawn upon by Mr.
Delprat, for L200, £300, and R500; issued, as he informs us,
for the amount of purchases which'he is making.of articles
not yet shipped ;". and on the other hand, 2d, £500, fl.1250,
and 1750, issued on us, as advances made to Mr. Krafft, already
so much our debtor, on shipments which he made some long
time ago, and which Mr. Delprat could clearly perceive, that
taken at an average, did nothing, diminish the balance due by
him."
The letter proceeds to state, in substance, that they could
choose only between the alternatives, of 41lowing the debt due
from Mr. Delprat to be swelled to a still'larger amount; and
protesting his bills. They had chosen the latter, however it
might pain their feelings. They express their regret to find.
that among the drafts to be protested for non-acceptance, and
perhaps afterwards for non-payment, are several endorsed by
the defendants, for whose honoug, however, they had intervened.
This letter was received by the defendants on the 1st day of
September, 1822. They immediately obtained from Mr. Delprat
an order on the plaintiffs, to hold at their disposal all theproceeds
of the goods shippked in his name, by the Virgin, and other vessels, and all balances due to him. This order was enclosed to the
Vnr.T.
NP

482

SUPREME COURT.

t8. Bayard et al.)
(Schimmelpennich et a].
plaintiffs in a letter of the 7th September, 1822, in which the
say, " We can of course only consider this order as applying
to the balance that may possibly accrue to him upon the setflenent of your account; and'if any should accrue, we will
thank you to take such legal steps, which you may deem necessary,,Ias will place it with us, without fear of contention.
His drafts, 'which you may have paid for our account, will
proba6ly furnish sufficient authority to enable you to do so."
At the trial, John C. Delprat was examined as a witness.
ie deposes, that the several bills of exchange, on which this
suit was' instituted, were drawn in his capacity as agent, oil
account of, and for the purpose of making advances on shipments consigned to the plaintiffs; and, except that in favour of'
IT.P. Krafft, for z£500,'were accompanied by letters of advice.
That during the whole period of his agency, he was in the habit of making shipments on his own account, and of drawing
for advances on the said shipments, precisely in the same manner as when they were made by others; that this was done
%viththe full kn9wledge and approbation of the said N. S J. &
R. *Van Staphorst, who never found fault with. him for doing
so; but to encourage him to make such shipments, gave him
credit for one half the commission, upon the sales of the shipments, so made upon his own account. On his cross-exami'nation, the witness stated that the bill-for e500 in favour of
Krafft, was drawn for shipments, by the Edward, Jason, and
•!Iay Flower. He cannot say when the Edward sailed. The
Jason had arrived, and the May Flower had sailed before the
bill was drawn. Krafft'was at that time indebted to the plain4
tiffs., The bill was issued to Krafft,. but was ieturned to witness,'who sent Utto the defendants. The bills of lading, and
the.invoices, were not sent with it. The three bills of the 27th
of May, for z1;000, were drawn on account of shipments,
in-his own name, by the Virgin. She sailed about the 30th
-Jaly. They were not accompanied by invoices or bills of
lading. The two b1ifs of the 12th and 18th June, for l1,000,
and for R300, were drawn on tobacco, shipped by the Henry,
belonging to the witness and to Mr. Krafft. The bill of lading
and invoice did not accompany them. The three bills of the
31st of July, were drawn on the shipments by the Virgin, ge.
uerally. They were not accompanied by bills of lading or invoices. The defendants received a commission for endorsing
his bills on the plaintiffs.
Ilimaking the advances on shipments on his own account,
he drew on the plaintiffs, sent his bills to the defendants, to
whom they were charged; and then drew on the defendants, as
the money was required, either on his own shipments or the
shipments"of e-thers; which bills were credited to the defend-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

28S3

(Schimmelpennieh et al. vs. Bayard et al)
irnts. lie understands that all his trafisactions with the defendants, were carried, by them, into their general account with
him. These transactions were not confined to his agency for
the plaintiffs. He remains considerably indebted to them.
He was concerned in shipments with Mr. Krafft, and' did a
great deal of business with him; but did not- consider himself
as a general partner.
The connexion between the plaintiffs and J. C. Delprat, was
formed by the agreement of the I1th January 1818. He wag
constituted their agent for purposes ,therein described; and received such powers as were deemed sufficient to enable him to
perfor-n th duties which devolved on him. That duty was to
manage their mercantile interest in the United States, "consisting chiefly in the forming of new solid connexions, and procuring of consignments."' To enable him to perform this dutys
he was allowed the faculty to value on them direct, or payable
in London, at no shorter date than sixty days sight, for such
moneys as he should ".employ, to make advances on the whole
or part of cargoes of current articles;" viz. to the amount of
two-thirds of the invoice price, &c. It being understood that
his letters ol
lvice should be acconipanied by. the bils of
lading and invoices of the goods, on which the advances may
have been made.
John C. Delprat, then, had no general-authority to personate
the plaintiffs in all respects whatever; butwas an agent appointed for particular porposes, with limited powers, calculated to
subserve those purposes. To procure consignments, it was
indispensable .that he should advance money to the consignors,
and this money was to be raised by bills on the plaintiffs. But
he was authorized to draw only for a special purpose, and to a
limited extent. Out of the limits assigned to him, he had no
power. The plaintiffs not being, as a matter of course, the
acceptors of every bill le might'-draw; must have performed
some act in relation to the particular bills, which imposes on
them, in law, the character of acceptors.
This point was consid-red by'this Court, in the case of Cooledge and others vs. Payson and others.
Cooledge &cCo. held'the proceeds of a cargo claimed by
'Cornthwaite and Cary, whose claim depended on the decision
of this Court, of a case depending therein. Cornthwaite and
Cary were desirous of drawing these funds out of the hands
of Cooledge k Co. and offered a bond, with sureties, as an'indemnity, in the event of an unfavourable decision. Cooledge 8
Co. in a letter to Cc,:nthwaite and Cary, state some formal objections to the bond, and add, "we shall write to our friend Wilfiams, by this mail, and will state to him bur ideas respecting
the bond, which he will probably determine. If Mr. Williams

SUPREME COURT.
(Schimmelpennich et al. v8. Bayard et al.)
feels satisfied on this point, he will inform you; and in that
case, your draft for 2,000 dollars will be honoured."
In answer to the letter addressed by Cooledge & Co. to Williams, on this subject, he declared his satisfaction with the bond,
as to form; declared his confidence, that the last signer was
able to meet the whole amount, himself; but that he could not
speak certainly of the principals, not being well acquainted
with their resources. He added, "under all circumsiances, I
should not feel inclined to withhold from them, any portion of
the funds for which the bond was given."
On the same day, Cornthwaite and Cary called on Williams,
who stated the substance of the letter he'had written, and read
a part of it. One of the firm of Payson & Co. also called on
him, and received the same information. Two days afterwards,
Cornthwaite and Cary drew on Cooledge & Co., for 2,000 dollars, and paid the bill to Payson & Co. who presented it to
Cooledge & Co., by whom it was Drotested. Payson 8r Co.
sued them as acceptors;
The Court instructed the jury, that ir they were satisfied that
Williams, on the application of the plaintiffs, made after seeing the letter from Cooledge & Co. to Cornthwaite and Cary,
did declare, that he was satisfied with the bond referred to in
that lefer; ind that the plaintiffs, on the faith and credit of
the said declaration, and also of the letter to Cornthwaite and
'Cary, did 'receive and take the bill in the declaration; they
weve entitled to recover in the action.
The jury found a verdict for the.plaintiffs; the judgment on
which was affirmed in this Court.
In this case, the drawee had written a letter to the drawer,
promising to honour his -bill for 2,000 dollars; if Mr. Williams
should be satisfied with a bond of indemnity, which had been
laced in their possessi.in. Mr. Williams declared his satisaction with it, both" to the drawer and holder of the bill, within two days after this declaration. In this case, the promise
to accept was express, and applied to a particular bill, the precise amount of which, was specified in the promise.
The Court, in its opinion, reviews .several decisions in England, on this point; in all of which, the promise to accept was
express; and in some of which, the Court declared the opinion,
that the promise ought to be accompanied by circumstances,
which may induce a third person to take the bill. After reviewing these cases, this Court laid down the rule, "that a letter written within a reasonable time before or after the date of
the bill of exchange, describing itin terms not to be mistaken,
and promising to accept it, is, if shown to the -person, who afterwards takes the bill on the credit of the letter, a virtual acceptance, binding the person who makes the promise."

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

285

(Schinmelpennich et al. vs. Bayard et al.)
It cannot be alleged that these bills *arebrought within this
rule. The plaintiffs, therefore, cannot be considered as acceptors of them.
But, although- the plaintiffs cannot be viewed as the acceptors of these bills, it does not follow, necessarily, that they can
maintain the present action. To entitle them to maintain it,
the Court must be satisfied that the payment is, in fact, what
it professes to be, a payment really for the honour of the en'dorsees. If the drawees, thus refusing to honour the bill, and
thus denying the authority of the drawer, to draw upon them;
were bound in good faith ,to accept or pay as drawees; they will
not be permitted to change the relation in which they stand to
the parties on the bills, by a wrongful act. They can acquire
no rights as the holders of bills, paid, 8upra protest; if they
*erd bound to honour them in their character of drawees. The
single afid unmixed inquiry, therefore, on the second and third
questions, is, whether the drawees were bound to accept or to
pay these bills. And first, were they so bound, because the bills
were drawn in pursuance of the authority they had given to the
drawer? This demands a more critical examination of the evi.
dence, than was required when considering the first question.
It is apparent, from the Iontract of the 11th of January
1818, that Mr. Delprat came to the United States, as the agent
off N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst, to manage their mercantile interest; " consisting chiefly in forming new solid connexions, and
procuring of consignments;! ' and also with commercial views
of his own. The principal object of the contract is to define
his authority,, and to regulate his conduct as agent. He is allowed to draw on the plaintiffs, for such moneys as he should
employ in making advances on current articles, consigned to
his principals, to the amount of two-thirds of the invoice price
of articles laden in chartered vessels. He was still further restricted, in his advances, by orders received long before the
bills in question were drawn, to one half of the true invoice.
Mr. Delprat's authority, then, to make advances, was limited
at the date of this transaction, to one half the invoice price.
One, and perhaps the mott usual mode of conducting business
of this description, is to draw in favour of the consignor, or
to endorse his bill. The agent might, however, if not otherwise instructed, draw immediately on his principal, and advance the money to the consignor, which was raised by the
bill. In either case, however, drafts beyond one half the invoice price of the consignments actually made, would exceed
the authority givw'n. Circumstances may exist, which would
inipose on the principal the obligation to pay such drafts; but
the question we are now considering, relates only to the anthority under, which the bills were drawn. That authority re-

SUPREME COURT.
(Schhnmelpennich etal. vs. Bayard et al.)
stricted the agent in the amount of his drafts, to one half the
invoice price of the articles actually consigned; and also required him to accompany his letters of advice, with bills of
lading and invoices.
Were the bills in question drawn in conformity with powers
and instructions thus limited?
The first bill on the list is for 500 pounds, drawn in favour
of J. P. Krafft, on the 23d of May 1892, and endorsed by him
to the defendants. The letter of advice, states this bill to be
drawn- on account of shipments by the Edward, Jason, afid
May Flower, as by letter of 21st, which is to be charged to account of P. Krafft. The letter of the 21st is not in the record.
The shipment by-the Jason hPad arrived, anc the May Flower
had sailed, before the bill was drawn. Mr. Krafft was at the
time indebted to N. 8 J. & R. Van Staphorst. The bill was returned by Krafft to Delprat, 'and then endorsed by the defendants.
It does not appear, certainly, who remitted this bill; although
the probability is, that, as it was endorsed by the defendants,'
not as purchasers, but for a commission; it Was remitted by
Delprai, to whom it was returned by Krafft, as is stated in
Delprat's testimony, or by some person to whom Delprat sold
it. It is true, that he further states, that, after the bill was so
returned, he sent it to.the defendants; but this was, no doubt,
done for the purpose of having it endorsed by the defendants,
lorder to give it credit. Neither does it appear, from the
in
evidence in the cause, that Krafft accompanied the shipments
on account of which this bill was drawn, by any letter of advice, or 6therwise, directing the proceeds thereof to be applied to the discharge of this bill; but, on the contrary, the letter
of advice addressed to the plaintiffs, by Delprat, directed the
bill to be charged to the account of Krafft, generally. Under
these circumstances; taken in connexion with the additional
generally, with Krafft, in the
- one, that Delprat was concerned,
shipments made-to the plaintiffs, the Court is of opinion, that
there is no material difference between this bill, and those drawn
on account of shipments made by, and in the name of Delprat,
which are now to be considered.
It has already be6en stated, that Mr. Delprat was a merchant,
trading on his own account, at the same time that he was the
agent of N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst. His transactions, in his
two characters, were as distinct fiom each other, as if they had
been the transactions of distinct persons. As an agent, he was
bound to act "in conformity to the authority and instructions"
of his principals. As a merchant, he was himself the principal, and acted in conformity with his own judgment. It would
seem, then, that the contract must contain some very peculiar

SANUJARY TERM, 1828.

287

(Schimmelpennich et al. t. Bayard et aL)
and unusual provisionsi toplace Mr. Delprat under the authoritv of the house in Amsterdam, whilst carrying on trade in the
U'nited States on his own account. Upon reference to the contract, we find a stipulation between the parties, in the following words:-" The second qudersigned, (D.elprat,) binds himself to procure to no person, or persons, in this kingdom2
any consignments, or commissions, from himself or any other,
except to the first undersigned; but, on the contrary, to use'
his utmost exertions toward the benefit of the mercantile house
of the first undersigned; they being willing, on .their side, io
facilitate all such commercial operations, as might benefit the
second undersigned, without their prejudice."
This article contains the only limitation on' the entire indpendence of Mr. Delprat, as a merchant. It is, perhaps; a necessary limitation; which was, in part, the'price of his agency,
and for which he finds a compensation in the profits of the business. confided to him. This restriction does not change the
character of his transactions as a merchant. His waivingthe
right to consign to any other house, does not impress on his
consignmenits to the Van Staphorsts, or on his bills drawn on
those consignments, a character different from that -which
would have belonged to them, bad his shipments been made
from choice. He does not bind himself to make consignments
to them; but not to make consignments to any other house in
the Netherlands.
If any doubt could arise from this article, it would be produced by the peculiar manner in which it is expressed. Mr.
Delprat binds himself to procure to no person in the kingdom
of the Netherlands, any consignments or commissions, from
himelf or any other, except to the Van Staphorsts. The singular application of the-word procure, to co.nsignments made by
Mr. Delprat himself; may be connected with the succeeding
article, which authorizes him to draw bills, and may have some
influence on its construction.: In that article, the Van Staphorts allow Mr. Delpra "Ithe ftulty to value on them direct,
or payable in London," for such moneys as he shall employ to
21 e advance3 on the whole, or part of cargoes, of current articles consigned to them, to the amount of two-thirds of the
invoice price.
It may be said, that, as in the preceding article, consignbients made by Delprat, on his own account, were considered
as procured by him, and were placed on'.he same footing with
consignments made by others; so in this, the express authoritr"
to draw bills, might embrace transactions of both descriptions.
But we do not think that the inaccurate use of words in one
article, will justify a departure from' the correct construction
nf a succeeding article; unless'the same.words are used, or the

288

SUREME COURT.

(Schimmelpennich et al. y. Bayard et al.)
bearing of the one on the other is' such as to require that departure.
The same motives existed for restraining..e agent from

making, as from procuring consignments to any other house
in the Netherlands. His utmost'exertions were required for
the benefit of his principals. The restriction, .therefore, might
be expressed in the same sentence; and a slight, inaccuracy of
language was the less to-be regarded, because it could produce
no possible misunderstanding with respect to the extent of the
pfohibition.
The third article might not be intended to prescribe the same
rules for the conduct of Mr. Delprat, as a merchant, and as.
the agent of the Van Staphorsts. As a merchant, he- hgd a
right to draw on effects-placed in their hands, independent ofcontract. The usage of trade allows such drafts' to be made
oi) a shipment; and the consigned must pay the-bills, if the
shipment places funds in his bands to pay them. But as agent,
his line of conduct was to be prescribed by contract. Wemust,
therefore, consultthe language of the agreement, in order to
determine whether it provides for the future connexion between
the parties, farther than as regards their characters as principal and agent.
The faculty gIven to Mr. Delprat, by the third article, to
value on the Van Staphorsts, is, If or such moneys as he should
employ to make advane'"on articles consigned to them. Money,
laid out/ in the purchase of articles on his own account, cannot,- with 4Uy propriety, of language, be denominated money employed in making advances on articles consigned to him. The
distinction.between money advanced on articles consigned, and
money employed in purchases; although the articles may be
purchased for the purpose of being consigned; is obvious. Mo*ney advanced,is alwvays to another, never to the individual making the advance. This language shows, we think, incontestably, that the article was drawn with i. sole view to bills drawn
by Mr. Delprat, as agent; not on his own account as -a merchant.
A subsequent part of the article -gives additional support to
this construction. Mr. Pelprat is to draw for two-thirds of the
invoice price of the article, and is himself the judge of the
price which may be inserted in the invoice. This power might
be safely confided to him, in making advances to others; but'
might not be trusted to him in his own case. - The case shows
the Van Staphorsts to have been men of extremp caution,
Their, letter to Le Roy, Bayard & Co.,.enclosing theiy contract
shows an unwillingness to commit themselve-s
-with"Delprat,
to him further than was necessary. It is not probable, that the-

JANUARY TERM, 1891.

269

(Schimmelpennich.et al. ws.Bayard et al.)
would have given him an express authority to draw on his own
account, on invoices to be priced by himself.
But the language of the article 'applies, we think, entirely to
his bills drawn as agent, not to those drawn as a merchant
transacting business for himself.
When examined as a witness, Mr. Delprat says, that during the whole period of his agency, he was in the habit of making shipments on his own account, to the said house in Amsterdam, and of drawing for advances on account of the said shipments so made, precisely in the same manner as when the shipments were made by others; and this was done with the fill
knowledge of N. & J.& R. Van Staphorst, who never found
fault with him for doing so; but, in order to encourage him to
ihake such shipments, gave him credit for one-half the commission upon the sales of the shipments, so made on his own account.
The Van Staphorsts were commission merchants, desirous
of extending their business. No doubt can be entertained of
their willingness to receive consignments from Mr. Delprat,
as well as from others. But this does not prove, that the powdr given, him as their agent, to make advances to others, was
intended to regulate the intercourse between them as merchants. That intercourse was regulated by the general principles of mercantile law; and the contract between the parties,
does not show that either was dissatisfied with those principles, or wished to vary them.
This question refersf we presume, to the authority given by
thf contract of the 11th of January 1818. The first article describes the objects which were committed to Mr Delprat- by
the Van Staphorsts. These were the management "of their
mercantile interest in the United States, consisting chiefly in
the forming new solid connexionsf and procuring of consignments."
The second article restrains the right Mr. Delprat might
otherwise have exercised, of consigning to other houses in the
Netherlands.
The third authorizes him to draw bills on his principals, for
the purposes oThis agency, under such limitations as they deemed it prudent to prescribe.
This -contract, we think, does not contemplate bills drawn
by Mr. Delprat on his own account, as a merchant. The bills
mentioned in the declaration, which were drawn in favour of
the defendants, and endorsed by them, do not come within the
authority given by the contract. No instructions from 'the
plaintiffs% extending this authority, appear in the record.
The third question comprehends the whole matter inf controversy, and has been partly answered, in answering th6 pre.
ceding'questions. It asks, whethen the plaintiffs were bo-nd
VOL. 1.
Oo

290

SUPREME COURT.

v*. Bayard etal.)
(Schimmelpennich et aj.
to accept and pay the bills in qudstion; and whether the same
having been paid by the plaintiffs, supraprotesti-for-thetonour
of the defendants, the plaintiffs are entitled to recover the
amount of the defendants ?
The opinion has been already expressed, that the bill drawn
on the 23d of May. 1822, for 500 pounds sterling, in fgvour of
J, P. Krafft, is not' distinguishable frbm those which were
drawn by Mr. Delprat, to enable him to purchase articles on
his own accounfwhichwere shipped to the plaintiffs. In making
these shipments, and in drawing these bills, Mr. Delprat acted
for himself, is an independent merchant. The relation between
him and the plaintiffs, was that of consignor and consignee.
The obligation of the plaintiffs to accept and pay his bills,
'depended essentially on the state of their accounts. So far as
the information furnished: by the case goes, Delprat appears to
have been indebted to the plaintiffs. In their letters of 19th
July and*ol0th September 1822, which were given in evidence
by the defendants, they state him to Le then their debtor;
-and it is not shown, that this debt has been discharged. The
plaintiffs, therefore, were not-, bound to accept and pay these
drafts, unless they haveacted in such a manner-as to give the
.holders
of the bills a right to count on their-being paid.
. It is believed
to be a general rule, that an, agent With limited powers cannot bind his principal.whei he transcends his
power. It would seem to follow, that a person transacting
business with him, on the credit of hi4 principal; is bound to
know the extent of his authority. Yet, if the principal has,
by his declaration or conduct, authorized the opinion that he
had given more .extensive powers to his agent, than were in
fact given; he could riot be permitted to avail himself of the
imp sitiou, and to protest bills, the drawing of which his condcThad sanctioned. But the defendants in this cause cannot alIVee that they have been deceived. They were the intimate
correspondents of the plaintiffs, from' whom they received a
copy of the confract. The letter'whibh transmitted it, requests their fiendly supervision of the conduct of Mr. Del-,
prat, and-desires them not to pay the money for which the
plaintiffs had given him a credit with them, in case of " a moial certainty" that it wofld not be employed for the purposes
of his ageicy. In the course of the corresportdence betweeq
the plaintiffs and defendants, we find several letters written
during the continuance of Mr. Delprat's credit with the'latter,
.which showg the determination of the former not to approve
of advances beyond that credit. In their letter qf the 94th of
Juneq, 1819,. the plaintiffs expressly caution tje defendants,
should they think proper to, remit in Mr. Delprat's bills, the
nature of which they are Yell acqiiainted wifh, that they (the

-JAN4UARY TERM, 1898.

291

(Schiminelpennich et a].
vs.Bayard et al.)
defendants,) allow him the same credit that they do other persons, from whom they take bills, in the persuasion of their
solidity, and of the reality of the transaction on which the
bills are issued. They add, "This is not the effect of any
want of confidence in our agent, but merely profluing from our
.invariable rule, to limit and circumscribe the credits we allow." The letters from the defendants show a perfect understanding, on their part, of the terms on which Mr. Delprat's
bills were to, be taken. On the lth 'May, 1819, announ6irig
that he had filled his credit, they say: "In addition to it, he
has expressed an anxiety that we should negotiate his drafts
on you, payable in London, foi about £S000 sterling, or that
we should take his drafts on Amsterdam, for a similar value.
The personal regard which we bear for Mr. Delprat, would
have induced, us promptly to ac'cede- to his requ'est, had not the
restrictionlaid upon us, of not permitting him to exceed, but for
a few hundred dollars, tne credit you give him, and the totalabsence of any indication from you of a wish for us to interfere iA his'pecuniary arrangements, in any, other than ,the
modenarked by the credit; led us to believe that our'negotiations or purchase of his drafts, was neither wished nor contemplated by you." And in their letter of the 7th of September, 1829, enclosing the order of Mr, Delprat on the plaintiffs,
for any balances belonging to hin in their hands; so far from
complaining of the protest of the bills, thy say; "We can, of
course, only cqnsider thig order as applying to the balance that
may possibly accrue to him, upon the settlement of, your account."
Messrs. Le Roy, Bayard & Co. then, Were not deceived by
the plaintiffs. Unfortunately for themselves, they -placed too
much confidence in Mr. Delprat. They took his bills, as they
were cautioned to do, in the letter of the 24th June,' 1819, "in
the persuasion of theii solidity, and of the reality of the transaction otn which they were issued." If in this they were mistaken, the responsibility and the loss are their own. The 4th
and 5th questions have been.waived by'the parties, and do not
properly arise in the-case. ' They are 6n exceptions taken in
the'trial of the cause, which could not be brought before the
Cout after verdict, but on a motion fo: a new trial, which was
not made.
The 6th question, whether a-judgment can be rendered on
the verdict of the jury, has been answered, so far as this Court
can answer it. We do not understand it as referring to the
amount of the verdict, for on that the'Circuit Court alone
can decide.' If it iis
intended to repeat, in another form, the
question whether the plaintiffs can' maintain their action,'as

192

'SUPREME COURT.

(Schimmelpennich et al. m. Bayard et al.)
the holders of bills, accepted and paid, supra protest, for the
honour of the drawers; it is already answered.
The decision of a majority of this Court, on the' points on
which the Judges of the Circuit Court were divided, will be
certified in conformity with the foregoing opinion.
This cause came on to be heard, on a certificate of division
,f opinion of the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Southern District of New-York, and on the
points on which the said Judges were divided in opinion, and
was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, This Court
is of opinion1st. That the authority to John C. Delprat to draw on the
plaintiffs, did not amount to an acceptance of the bills.
2d and 3d. That the bills mentioned in the declaration were
drawn by the" said Delppat, not under the authority of the
plaintiffs, but on his own account; and the plaintiffs were not
bound to accept and pay them, urless funds of the drawer
came to their hands.
4th and 5th. These questions are understood to be waived)
.nd do not appear to arise in the case.
6th. The 6th question is decided by the answer to the 2d and
3d, so far as respects the right of the plaintiffs to maintain their
action. On the quantum of damages, this Court can give no
ppinion.
All which is ordered to be certified to the Court of the United States, for the second Circuit and District of New-York.

