SUPREME COURU

JAmEs JACKSON, Ex-DFuASsE opLAzY ANDERSON VS. JOHN CLARK
AND R OyERnT ELLISON.

Construction of the Act of Congress passed March 2d 1807, entitled "An
Act to exteWd the time for locating Virginia military warrants, for returning surveys thereon to the office of the Secretary ef the Department of
War, and appropriating lands for the use of schools, in the Virginia military reservation, in lieu of those heretofore appropriated. {634}
The reservation made by the law of Virginia of 1783, cedinF to Congress the
territory north.west of the' river Ohio, is not a reservation of the whole
tract of country between the river Scioto, and Little Miami. It is a reservat.ion of only-so much of it, as may be necessary to make up the deficiency
of got lands in the country set apart for the officers and soldiers of the
Vhrgin~ia line, on the continental establishment, on the south-east side of
the Ohio.' The residue of'the lands are ceded to the United States, as a
common fund for hosetates, who were, or might becoementmbers of the
Union, to be disposed of for that purpose. 6351
-Although te military ights constituted tie primary claim upon the tryst,
that claim was, according to the intentioA of the parties, so to be satisfied
as still to keep in view the interests of the Union, which were also a vital
object of the trust. This was only to be effected, by presribing the time
in which the lands to be appropfiated by these claimants, should be spparated from the general mass, so to enable the government to apply the
trust.a {635}
e general
puaposestoofmthe
to existed
the
presribe
time within which military
Ifresidu
the ight
ii"Congress
warrants should be located, the ight to annex coaitiona to its extension,
follows as a necessary conseq~vence. {635}
pinIfitle co~nceded that the proviso in the Act of 2d March 1807, wes not
tended for the protection of surveys which were in themselve absolutely
void; it must he admitted that it was intended to protect those which were
defective, a which might be aroided for irregularity. Imthis effect be
f635
,
e
denied to the proviso, it becomes, itsel a nullity.
from the corn
the law
as completely
aie under
Lands
that
pate.nt~d.
It cannot
be said withdrawn
that the prohibition,
mon surveyed,
mass, as lands
"no locatioshall be male on tracts of land for which patents had previ,was
ntended
issued, or whichhadeen previouslysurveyd,"
ously
been
require legislative aid.
only for
valid and regular surveys. They did riot
The clause was introduced for the protectiuii ofdefective entries and surveys, which might b defeated by entries made in quiet times. 638}
ERROR to the Circuit Court f the, United States, for the
district of Ohio.
Thepllaiutiff brought-an.action .fejectment, in the C;ircuit
Court of Ohio, to recover" a tract~ of laud, situate in Adams
county, in the Virginia' military district, and state of Ohio.
On the trial of the cause, a bill 6f exceptions was tendered by
the plaintiff; to the opinion of the Court upop the admissibility of certain testimony, ivhich was.offere~bythe plaintiff, and
he was rejected by the Court.
"Tefacts of the case, with the matters which were the sub-

JANUARY -TERMi 1828.

629

(Jackson m. Clark et al:)
ct of the plaintiff's exceptions,' appear in the opinioni of. the

tourt. *

The case was argued by Mr. Leonard- and Mr. Hammond,
for the'plaintiff in errorvand by Mr. Creightofi and Mi twing,
for the 'defendants.
The argument of the counsel of the plaintiff in error.wOs
principally-upon these points. -1. Congress could not rightfully-limit the time withiA which
military warrants ,should be. located and surveyed.
. The Act of ,Congress, prohibiting locations on lands already strveyed, and, declaring any patent which should be issued on such survey void, does not comprehend the survey in
this case.
Mr. Leonardl and Mr.'Hammond, ins isted: the proviso of the
Act of 2d March 1807, was simply degigned to protectvoidaie
surveys, not those absolutely void. Before the, statute, surveys
made in defective locations, or not executed in conformity, -*eke
voidable, but might be-carried into grant, and the grants issued.
thereon, were without the aid of the Act,; appropriations'of tle
land.
These *ere the principal evils in the country, demnanding
legislaiiye interference, and led to the'enactneit oftlie s;t:
tute. And this places all voidable surveys, which .miglht be
Patented, on.the same fdotifig as if' they were patented, so far
as to prevent subsequent appropriation, -but.does not coveir
with it§ 'protection, surveys on which grants.can never issue.-.
The authority of the iurveyor to make a survey, is derived
solely from. the warrant; and surveys executed without war,rants, are void. This is-apparent'froj 'all. the laws- df. Virginia relative to tht subject and from-the coinmon practice and
universal understanding nf. those; laws, and' the decisions 'of
the 'Courts. By the Act of 9th Sune 1794, 'now in force, no
patent can issue on-the defendant's survey.
On the construction of defehdanth, the proviso will operate
as a virtual repeal of that Act, aid giv&such validity.to'these'
surveys,. as lto'remoyb -the necessity of obtaining grants; or
otherwise, by preventing subsequent locations, vest the land in
the United States. 'The"lAtter construction would'be: 'an infringement of the compact between Virginia. 'and the: United
States, and a refusal to execute it in good faith; '
If Congress can limit the time within'which locations may
be made; they are bound to execute'the'power with the utmost
honour, anf nbt apply a limitation to one pirt f the dtrict,
without extendiny it to all. Much less are-theyl athorizod, un.
der colour of limiting the time, .to appropriate-.the land. to-'eir
o'#n use. None will presume, such ill faith ii- Cofigress. The
VirgiEna troops, acquired a right, and at the price bf blood, to

SUPREME COURT.
(jickson w. Clark et l)
compensatibn.in'land, by the-express stipulation of that statt
Virginia did no cede- the north-west territory to the Unfon,
until the United States engaged to make good the compensa.
tion, out of the reservation. The faith- of two sovereigns, has
pledged -the military district to these troops.
The whole course of the legislation of Congressr, evinces
that it wds not their-design to authorize locations, -or surveyq,
Withoutmlitary warrants, or for more -land than is embraced
in thdm, It cannot. be supposed, that it'was the design of the
proviso to. protect suftey- wfiolly unauthorized, on which
grants -can never issue; -but to protect' surveys that are irregube patented. The Act
might
lar,-defective,
voidable~an.
of :Virginia protecting
old which
military
surveys, is- as strongly expressed" as the proviso, bout lies always been herd to apply only
to those fouanded- upon warrants.
A sale-of land bSy-title bond,- and- location afterwardsmade,
dos not vest the purchaser-with title in the
warrant or entry.
Afhe purchaser reposes €ontfidetnce in the • vendor,- and if this
confidenace 4s nmisplaced, the-purchaser, and not the governmenl, must sustain "the loss -The purchaser can 1o~k to his
bond for"indeiinity. Massi was then thle proprietor, and, had
.the right-to elect either. of these locations, and by recording
.t-sus~yey -of the earlier, be iiohind himself, and . abandoned the
.latter. The, taicing out"the w*arrant, and the plots of survey, as
on a satisfied- warrant, is a stlemn act of a an !onment The
recorded survdy, and not the sur~vey executed on the oground, is
-protected by the prQviso..:The recording a survey, after the satisfied warrant with tbhe~plots of survey are taken from the
office, "is. a void act. A new eutry cannot be held a withdrawal
of one prior; or, if.so- it P~ainotbe held a withdrawal oQfa sur-'
vey .ecorded" when the plot in takexi from "the office, and espedally -whe, not- return~d; and: thus a survey of 555 acres,
xnade on only 4i05 acr'es .of locatedi warrant,"the residue oqf the
55-3 acres- being surveyed, r-ecorded, the .pIots taken out of
the .ffi~ce,.und notgreturned,'is not sh~ededby the proviso.
•He -cited, among othier case, Taylor' Lessee 17. .Myers, 7
) h at. 3 Kerr vs. Watts, 6 4zWheat. 55(3 Mathie vs. Potts, 6
Cranch, Taylor and another vs. Brqwn, 5 Cranch, Wilson vs. Mason, 1 Cranch, Hickman vs.- Hofiman, and Estill's Heirs -" Haret's Heirs, Hai~d'4Rep
#]orls,y. 8 ,8,o ,d's
rce.'qtct

D)edaona", Johnson ~vs. Buflington, 2 Wash. Rep., Holt's Heirs
-

vs. Hemphile's Heirs, 5 ool- ,Ohio Rteports, and referred to
wtm' Collection of Ohio -La~d Lawvs, under the head of J'irginia militark, ka
MVr. Crei'ghton, ar~d Mr. E-wing, for the de'fendants in error.
contended.In the case presented "bythe record and bill ofx exception;

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

6sl

CJackson vs. Clark et'al.)
the counsel for the defendants insist, that they are prbtected'hy
the proviso of the Act of Congr ss of th'e 2d Mtrdh 1807, entitled an Act to extend the time or locating Virginia military.
warrants, -for-returning surveys, &c.; and subsequent Acts of
Congress on the same subject, containing the same -proviso;
and that the patent obtained by the plaintiff is ".null and
void."
The United States, under the deed of cession of 1784, from.
Virginia, held the Virginia military district in trust for the
Virginia claimants. The surplus, subject to sale, as othet lands
belonging to the United States.
In the execution of these trusts, the Congress of the United
States, on the 23d of March 1804, passed an Act limiting.lo-.
cations in the Virginia military district to three .years, and five
years to execute and return surveys.
The holders of warrants asked/an extension of the time.
When the Act of the 2d March 1807 was passed, extending
the period for making locations and ieturning surveys, the proviso on which the defendants' rely, was introduced, and.has
been retained in all the subsequent Acts -f Congress o that
subject.
The power of Congress to limit the period for mnaking locations and surveys in this district, (exertised since- the year
1804,), heretofore has never been questioned. In the exercise of
an undoubted power, the object and policy of the, national legislature iin the introduction of the proViso cannot be mistaken, in exoluding from .location. "land for Which .patents. had
previously been issued, or which had' been previously surveyed." The survey claimed by the defendants, is a subsisting
sur.vey, which -has never been abandoned or withdrawn, and
comes expressly-withinthe doctrine laid-down. by the Court in
the case of Taylor's lessee v3. Myers, 7. Wi at.. 23. "Theprotriso in the Act of March 2d 1807,;-w ch annuls- all locations
made on lands pre~iously, surveyed, applies to subistilg sifrveys-to tbose in. which an interest is -claimed." The Act
places 'surveya on .the samA footing with -patents, -for -all-the
purpose of.defince in.trials at law. -A patent is a, title from
its date, and. conclusive against all those whose ights did not
cblmmence previous to its emanation., Hoofnagle and others vs.
Anderson, -"Whea. -212. In the action of ejectinent in Ohio,
the parties are-never permitted to go -behind the patent. The
same rule applies under this Act -tosurveys.
The class of cases referred to, and relied on by the plain-liff's counsel, are cases in chancery, where it is the appropriate-dutyof 'the.Court to go behind the paten or survey..
Whether a patent can be obtained by the defendants on heir
survey, will-be a question between, them, ad -the .government.

6302

SUPREME COURT.
(Jackson vs. Clark et a!.)

whenever the government shall, make provision to inquire into
the claim. It can never be a question between the plaintiff and
defendants. It is -sufficient for the defendants in this contoversy, that theyhaveea 8istinigsurvey,cdaimedby them, and that
the patent obtained by the plaintiff-has been procured in contr'avention of the positiye provisions oi. the Act, and is "null
and void."
If it were admissible to go. into' the inquiry desird by the
plaintilT it will be seen, that when Nathaniel Massie sold the
land in question t'o the defendants, and at the.time he made the
entry and survey,, he owned 403 acres, part ;bf Leven .Powell.s
warrant, and 150 acres, part of Thomis Goodwin's warrant
making 553 acres, the precise ouantity in/the entry tnd, survey.
If the bjection to the defendants' title exists, as suggested
by. the plaintiff's counsel, the facts disclosed in the evidence offered, by him,"present a'case where a Court of Equity would
"
giv6 to the defendants ample relief.
.Mr. Chief JuStice'MAnSu4L delivered 'the 'opinion of the
Court.-'
This is an ejectment brought-by the plaintiff in error, in the
Court of the United States for the seveuth circuit'and district
of Ohio, to recoyer a tract of land lymg in the military district.
The plaintiff offered, as his utle, a patent from, the goverument of the'United States4 bearing date the 10th of November
1894.
The defendants then introduced a certified copy of an entry
and: survey of the lands in controversy, sworn to by RichardG. Anderson,'the principal surveyor of the Virginia military
district; the survey purporting'to haye been made on the 10th
of October 1796, and recorded on the15th of April 1812, founded on an entry, bearing date the 19th day of July 1796, for 55S
acres of lanal in the name of Nathaniel Massie, assignee, numbered 2744,.and founded upon Leven Powell's 'Warrant, for 2000
acres, No..3598, andThopias Goodwin's warrant for 200 acres,
No. 1930. It whs. adnittd,.that the defendants were purchasers'fbom Massie, pe'orto-the year 1796; entered into possession
of the premises une.er the'said purchases, and. received a'conveyance from him, before the year &12. It was also admitted,
that the plaintiff's;entiy was made on the 10th of June 1824,
and his survey on the 20th of the same month;
The defendant relied on this survey, and on the proviso of
the Act passed the 2d of,Maxch 1807, entitled ." An'Act to
extend the time for locatifig Virginia military warrants, &c."
This Act annexes 'the foll6wing proviso to the 'permiission it

JANUARY TERM, 1828..

633

(Jackson vs. Clark et al.)
grants to obtain warrants for military service, and to make locations within the military district.--" Provided, that no locations as aforesaid, within the aforesaid mentioned *tract,shall,
after the passing of this Act, be made on tracts of land for which
patents had previously been issued, or which had been previously surveyed, and any patent which may,.uevertheless, le obtained for land located contrary to the provifsons of this section,
shall be considered as nult.and void."
To show that the survey set up by the defendants was not
protected by the proviso in the Act of Congress, the plaintiff
offered to prove, that the warrants on which it was-founded
were satisfied bef6re that entry was made. For this purpose,'
he offered in evidence, two entries, amounting to 1597 acres,
on Powell's warrant, made in Powell's name the S0th of December 1791, surveyed by Massie on the 3d of January 179 ,
th6 survey recorded on the 10th of the same month; plots and
certificates taken from the office by Massie, the 11th of July
1795, and a patent issued to him on the. 19th September 1799;
also an entry for 403 acres, the residue of Powell's warrant,
made in the name of Nathaniel Massie, on the 97th of January 1795, surveyed on the 27th December 1796, the survey recorded on the 9th of June 1797; the plot and certificate, together with the warrant supposed to be satisfied, taken out of the
office by Massie, on the 14th of June 1797, arid a patent issuec
to his leirs on the 3d of December 1814.
. He also offered in evidence, an entry for hity acres made or,
Thomas Goodwin's warrant, in the name of John Walkerrassignee, the 17th of September 1795, surveyed the S0th" of
.March 1820, and patented on the 19th of November 18.25; also
an entry for.150 acres, the residue of the said warrant, made
on the 16th of June 1795, in the name of the said Massie, surveyed on the 1st of July in the same year; survey recorded the
10th of the same month, and a patent issued to, Massie on the
15th of February 1800.
The plaintiff also offered the deposition of Richard C. Anderson, the principal surveyor, who deposed, that the survey
of 553 acres, which was given in evidence by the defendants,
was illegally made, and admitted by him ignorantly and improperly, to record; and that he had marked the same on the
record of his office, "error;" but he does not state the time
when this mark was made. He adds,that he had refused to
grant a plot, and certificate of survey, being of opinion that
the whole of the warrants had been previously satisfied.
The defendants moved the Court to reject the authenticated
copies, and testimony aforesaid, as inadmissible evidence;
which motion was granted by the Court, upon the ground that
the Act of Congress confirmed the survey of the defendants,
VOL. L
4L

634

StIPRIME COURT.

(Jackson vs. Clark et aL.)
Wnd annulled the plaintiff's. patent. An exception was taken
to this opinion. A verdict and judgment having been given
for the defendants, the plaintiff has brought.the cause intp his
Court by writ of error.
Two points have been made by the counsel fdr the plaintiff.
They contend1. That Congress could not; rightfully, limit the time withia
which military warrants should be located and surveyed.
2. That the Act'of Congress,. prohibiting locations on lands.
already surveyed, and declaring, any' patent which should be
issued, on. such' survey Void, does-notdomprehend the survey in
this case.
The fift point to be considered, is. the objection to the limitati n of, time prescribed, by Congress, within which the -iilitary warrants granted by Virginia' should- be locatedi The
plaintiff contends thattno limitation 4n be fited.
In the October session'of 1783, the legislature of 'Virginia
,passed an Act ceding to'Congress the territor claimod by that
state, lying north-west of the riverObio, under certain reservatlofis and conditions, in the At mentioned. One ofthese was,
"That in case the quantity orgood land on the'south-east side
of the Ohio, upon the waters of the Cumberland -river, and between the Green river and Tennessegj which.has been reserved
by law for the -VIiginia troops, on the continental establsh.ment, should, from the'North Carolina hue bearing in farther
upon the Cumberland lands than was expected, prove insufficient for their legal bounties; the deficiency should be made
up to.the "Eaidtroops in good lands to be laid. off between the.
rivel.s Scioto and Little Miami, on the north-west side of -the
river Ohio, ;n such.proportions a's have been engaged to them
by the laws .of Virginia.'
This is not a'reservation of the whole tract of country-lying
'betwein the rivers Scidto and Little Miami. It is a reservation
of only so much of'it,- as may be necessary to make up the deficiency of good lands in the country set apart for the officers
and soldiers, of the Virginia line, on"the continental esiablishment, on'the south-east side, of the Ohio, The reservation is
made in terms which-indicate:sotie doubt respecting the exist-'
eiice-of'the deficiency, snd ah opinion- that it will not be very
considerable.- Subsequent'res iiiions of 'thieVirginiia legislaturep have added very mnch'to the amdimt-of these bountia,
The r sidue of the lands are ceded to the United -Statesfor the
benetit of the said states,' to be considered as a cotomonfund
ftr the use and benefit of such of 'the United States, as-have
becomn, or iall become, members bf- the confederation or federad'alliance-of the said state s, Virginia inclsiv , -atoording
to their usual eesped~te propordon& the geeral charge ad

JANUARY ,TERM, 1828.

635

(Jackson vs. Clark et aL)

expenditure; ant shall be faithfully, and

nafide, disposed o£.

for that p
tarpose,
nd for no other use or purpose whatever."
The government of the United States then received this.territory in trust, not only for the Virginia troops onthe coninental establish ent, but also for the use and benent of themenbets of the confederation; and thi& tust is to be executed.." by a
ofsithful and bonajide" disposition of the and, for that purposeWhe cannot take retrospective dview of the then situation of.
the United States, without perceiving the importance wtilch
must have been attached t this part
o of the trust. A heavy foreg and domestic debt, part of theprice pat ftr independence pressed upon the government; and the vacant lands
constituted the only certain-fund for its discharge. Althougl

then, the military rights constituted the primarytf
im on th
trust, that claim was, according to the intention of the parties,
so t9 be satisfed as still to keep in view that other object
which
was also the
of vital
Ths was
be elected
only,.
by prescribingtime interest.
'.vithin which
the to
1s.nds
to be appropr~ateL by these claimants, should be separated from the gene-"
ral mass, so as to enable the goverfilent to apply the residj.e,'
which it was then supposed would be considerable, to the other
purposes'of the trast. .The time ought certainly to be liberal

,But unless some time might be prescribed, the other purposes,
of the trust would be totally, defeated; and the surplus land remain a wilderness.
This reasonable, and, we think, necessary, construction, has
met with general acquiescence. -Congress has acted upon i4
and has acted in such a manner as not to excite complaints,
either in the state of Virginia, or the holders of military warrants.
If the -right existed to prescribe a time within which military warrants should be located, the right to annex conditions
to its extension follows as a necessary consequence. The condition annexed, by Congress has been calculated for the sole
purpose of preserving the peace and quiet-of the inhabitants,,
by securing titles previously acquired. We are to inquire,
whether the case of the defendants is within it.
2. It has been contended, that the prohibition in the Act of
the Sd-of March 1807, to make locations on lands which had
been previously surveyed, does not extend to the survey of the
defendants, because that survey was made on warrants which'
had been previously satis~ed, The word "sur-vey," as usei in
the law, is not satisfied by the mere circumstance that a chain
has followed a compass round a paticular piece of. ground;
but requires that it should be made in virtue of a, wariant for
the purpose of appropriating land, to which the holder of that
warrant is entitled by lawi. Thie warrant can be in authority

-

SUPREME COURT
(Jackson vs. Clark et al.)
for surveying and appropriating so much land oiily, as it professes to grant; and this ncccssary limitation, could it require
confirmation, is confirmed by the Act of the 9th of June 1794,
which regulates the manner of issuing patents on surveys for
less than the _whole quantity of land specified in the we-rant.
That Act contains a proviso, "That no letters patent shall bc
issued for a greater quantity of land than shall appear to remain
dueon such warrants." As patents had issued fon.the *hole quantity of land specified in the warrants on which tKj survey of the
defendants professes to be fbunded, previous to the entry of the
plaintiff, no patent could at that time have beefi obtained by
the defendants; and therefore, the saving in the statute could
not have been intended for their survey.
. The Court has, felt thd weight of this argument, and hasbestoed upon'it the most deliberate consideration.
The Act of the 23d of March 1804, is the first Act which
prescribes the time within which the holders of military warrants shall make their locations andsurveys. That Act requires
that the locations shall be made within three years from its
passage. On the 2d of March '1807, the first Act was passed
giving a farther time of three years for making locations, and
of five years for returning survets. This Act contains the proviso of which the defendants claim the benefit. In every Act
which has been since passed, prolonging the time for making
entiies and returning surveys on military warrants; the same
proviso has been introduced. It was enacted in March 1807,
and has continued in force ever since. It constitutes a limitation to the right given by all subsequent laws, to locate and
survey military warrants.
If it be conceded, that this proviso was not intended for the
protection of surveys Which werp in themselves absolutely void,
it must be admitted that it was intended to protect those which
were defective, and which might be avoided for irregularity,
If this effect be denied to the proviso, it'becomes itself a nullity. We must therefore inquire, towhich class the survey of
the defendants belongs.
Nathaniel Massie was probably the proprietor of Leven Powell's whole warrant of 2000 acres, certainly of 403 acres part
thereof, when he made the entry under which the defendants
claim. He was also the proprietor of 150 acres, part of Thomas Goodwin's warrant. We'say he. was at that time the proprietor ,of those warrants, because he made an entry for 403
acres, part of Powell's warrant,' in his own name, on the 27th
of January 1795, and an entry for 150 acres, part of Goodwin's
'warrant, in his own name, on the 16th of June-1795; both
whichentries were afterwards surveyed and patented for.himself and his-heirs. These two etries amount to 553 acres, the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

637

(Jackson vs. Clark et al.)
quantity for which the entry sold to the defendants -was made.
Being thus the proprietor of both these entries, and of the warrants on which they were founded, he makes an entry in his
own name, on the 19th July 1796, for the same quantity of 553
acres. This last entry, the warrants being satisfie4 if the previous entries remained in force, was inconsistent with the two

preceding entries. It ought not to liave beenmade by him nor
allowed by the principal surveyor, unless those preceding entries were withdrawn. According to the usage of the office, as
stated in Taylor's Lessee vs. Myers, 7 Wheat. 3, Massie had
the power to withdraw them. Had he expressed to the Surveyor General his wish to withdraw them, and to re-enter the.
warrants, his wish would not have been opposed. But, without. expressing this wish, so far as the case shows, he made the
entry in question. This act was lawful-if the two preceding
entries were removed; unlawful if they sto6d. The officers of
the government did their duty, if this entry displaced the two
which precelled it; but violated their duty, if it had not this effect. Unquestionably, in an office regularly kept, the withdrawal of an entry ought to appear upon thd'record; but had
this office been regularly kept, the last entry could not have been
allowed, unless accompanied by a withdrawal of those which
were inconsistent with it.
Had Nathaniel Massie transferred his right to the two last
preceding entries, previous to the time of making this for the
defendants, so that the contest was between purchasers;.the
prior entries could not have been affected by his subsequent
act. But he had not transferred his right to them; the.contest, had one arisen, wbuld not hive been between purchasers,
but between a purchaser, and the wrongdoer'himself. Can jt
be doubted how such a controversy would have terminated?
Nathaniel Massie, being the,proprietor of 553 acres of military land warrants, enters them on lands 'which they might latvfully appropriate; afterwards, possessing a.perfect right to cancel this.entry, and, locate the warrants elsewhere, he does locate
them elsewhere, and sells this location to a purchaser for a valuable consideration§ without notice. It cannot, we think, be
doubted that a Court of Equity would at any time, while Massie remained the owner, of'the prior entries, relieve such purZhaser, by annulling the entries which obstructed the title of-the
purchaser; or decreeing that Massie should withdraw them, or
enjoining him from carrying them into grant. ,Had the plot and
certificate of survey, with the accompanying vouchers required
by law, been prespnted by the defendants, previous to the pro.
ceedings taken by Massie to obtain patents for himself, a grant
would have issued to the defendants. Their survey thefi, was
not an absolute nullity. It might have -been zupported in a,
-

SUPREME COURT.
(Jacksan w. Clrk et al.)
Court of-Equity; and had the defendants, instead of trusting,
as they probably did, to Massie for a title, been diligent in the
pursuir of it, themselves, they might, pirhaps, have obtained
one from the Vnited States.
This was not a fictitious,, but an actual survey, made a early
as the year 1796, by a regular officer, for one owning the warrants
on which the entry purports to be made, and having at the time,
full power to give complete validity both to the entry and survey.. No circumstance attended them which could enable a
purchaser to detect the *latentdefect. The survey having every
appearance of fairness and validity given, to it by the regular
officers of the government, is sold, at least as early as the year
1796, to persons who take possession of it, and have retained
possession ever since. Why should not the proviso in the Act
of Congress apply to the case? The words taken literally, certainly apply to it.. "N o locitions shall be made on tracts of land
'for which patents had previously been issued, or which had been
previously surveyed." Had a patent been previously 'issued
on this very survey, this contest could never have arisen. Does
tLhe language of the clause. furnish any distinction between the
patent and the survey? If it'be a surey, there is none.'- Lands
surveyed are as completely withdrawn, as lands patented-froi ,
subsequent location.
It cannot be said, tht the prohibition was intended only for
valid and regular surveys. They did not require legislative
aid. It 'was knoWn that the military district abounded with
defective entries-and surveys, which might be'defeated by entries made in-more quiet times, with better'knowledge of the
requisites of law, This clause was introduced for their protection. It was, most truly, an enactment of repose. A survey made by the proper officer, professing.to be made on real
warratnts; bearing upon its face every mark of.regularity and
validity, presented a barrier to the .approach of the, location,
which he was not permitted to pass; which he was not at liberty to examine. Had the survey been made on land not.previously located, it would have been as destitute of validity as it
is now supposed to be. Yet it is admitted, that though it should
not cover one fqot of the location, the land surveyed could not
be appropriated by a subsequent locator. The illegality of
the survey would not have been examinable by him.
We cannot draw the distinction, between such a case and
this. Congress does not appear to have drawn it. They are
both surveys xmade by the regular officers on military ward
rants.
It may be, that the defendants may never be able to perfecttheir title(' The land may be yet subjectto the disposition of
Congress. It is enough for the present case to say, that as we

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

689

(Jackson vs. Clark et al.)
understand the Act of Congress, it was not liable to location
when the plaintiff's entry was made.
We have not noticed the testimony of the principal surveyor,
because we do not think it affects the case.. The word "1error"
was written on the face of the plot, we know not when; certainly after it was recorded, and after the Certificate exhibited
by the defendant at the trial had been given. It manifests his
opinion that he acted improperly in admitting the survey to
record, but that o inion cannot affect the case. The great original impropriety was in omitting to require that the previous
entries made in the name of Massie, should be withdrawn, expressly, when this entry was made.
This case is not, we think, like Taylor's Lessee vs. Meyers,
reported in7 Wlzeat. 2S. In that case the owner had openly
abandoned his location and survey, and had placed his warrant
,on other land.' In such case, the land was universally considered as returning to the mass of vacant land, and becoming,
like other vacant land, subject to appropriation. A person having no interest in the original survey, Attempted to set it up
against a subsequent' locator, under the proviso in the Act of
Congress which has 'been stated. The Court said, "the proviso of that Act, which annuls all locations made on lands previously surveyed, applies to subsisting surveys; to those in
which an interest is claimed, not to those which have been
abandoned, and in which no person has an interest." This
survey has not been abandoned by any person having title to
it, and the defendants still have an interest in it.
We think there Is no error in the decree, and that it ought
to be affirmed.

