JANUARY. TERM, 1828.

Tuiz UirrD STATfS vs. 422 CASKS

OF WIN , HAZAnb.k WIL-

LIAMS CLAIMANth.

It-snot thehabit of this Court, to cbnsider.points again open for discussion,
which have bee :once deliberately deciddd, and have -furnished .the
ground work of the judgment already rendered in the aime cause, in a
former stage of its proceedings. {5491 "
In suits in re-m,,And in the exchequer side7 of the District Courts of the
UniteaStates, the claimant ia-an actor, andis entitled to come before the
Court.in that character only -in irtuo of his proprietary interest in the
thing in controversy. -This ilone gives him,a persowa siaidi injudicio.
it is necessary that he should establish his right to that character, as a preliminary to his admiion as a, party ad-ifte, capable of sustaining the
litigation. {6491
the claim he made through an agent, the agent must make'oath as to his
If,
belief of the verity of the claim, ancd if nece,-ary produce proof of-his authority, before he can be'admittedto put in the claim. 15491
Allegations and pleadings to l~e merits are a- waiver of the preliminary
inquiry as to proprietary interest; and admission that the paity, is rightly'
in Court and capable of contesting the merits. 1550.
property,
Ifafter'proceeding in a caase the Court find the claimantbhas n.o
or that it is in another not represented, the Court will retain the res, ntil.
the real owner shall appear, claim and receive it from the Court. 15501
Upon a writ of-error in an exchequer proceeding, which has been tried by
a jury, the evidenei given at the time of the trial is not in a strict sense
before this Court. {55og
ERROR to the District Court of E. Louisiana.
This case was before this Court, at February Term'1823,
and is reported in 8 Wheat. 391, under the name 6f the Sarah.
The cause baving been sent back," the libel was changed into
an information, charging the seizurh to have been made on
land, according to thie leave given .by the decree of the Court
in that case.
The information charges the wine to -have been in relity
Malaga Wine, falsely exported from New.York under the name
)f Sherry, for the benefit of'tke drawback.- To this informg.tibu, aclaim and answer wasiven ahd filed by'Benjamin Story,
as agent fo,'H Liard & Williains, -and on-the oath of the said Story, claiming thewine as the property of the said-Hazard & "Williams,'making, np answer to the s.oecific fact charg .by.the
information,, that-the wine was Malaga -wine, 'enported under
the natrie of Slierry fot-the benefit, of drawback; but denying
generally the allegations of the information,or that-any thin
had been done to forfeit the wine under the revenue aies of the
United States, and claiming the restofition of the7w'ine to hazard & Williams. The record set forth the evideniee on,tfi

548

SUPREME COURT.

(The United States. vs. 422 Casks of Wine.)
question, whether the wines were Malaga or Sherry. The verdict of the-jury was for the claimants. The District Attorney
moved for anew trial,which was overruled; on which he brought
this writ of error, 4nd made the following assignment of errors.
1. That on' the 18th of 'December 1819, this case was tried
by juryj and verdict.and judgment rendered for the United
States.
9. The proceedingsunder this libel were regular; as the amend.ment related to matter of form merely, and not of substance;
and by the 17th section of the Act of Congress of 2Ath September 1789-the Courts of the United States may establish all necessary rules for conducting the ,business of the Court; and the
22d section of-the same Act provides that "there shall be no*
reversal for error in ruling any plea in abatement," &c. The
proceedings in this case, were in conformity with the rules of
the Court in which they were instituted.
No answer and clairA was'filed and, sworn to by or in the
name and behalf of Charles Hall, the real owner of the said 422
casks of wine. at the time of the seizu -e and forfeiture thereof
to the United States.
Mr. Wirt, Attorney Generali on the part of the United States,
submitted th&case, on the errors assigned by the District Attdrney.
Mr. Ogden and Mr. Hall, on the part of the claiinants, made
the following points:1. That there is no error upon the record, for. the causes
assigned by the Attorney for the United States; the same points
,having been already before this Court, and after due consideration, conclusively settled, upon the first trial of this cause. (See
8 Wheat. 391. "The Sarah.")

2. That there was no necessity for the said Charles Hall. to
ffle. a claim and answer in, his own name, since his title to said
wine, (if proved) accrued after the seizure thereof; and after a
claim and answer. h4d been duly filed by Hazard 8c Williams,
the3.parties having the egal title to said property.
.That the objection "that.no answer and claim hath been
filed and 'sworn to by or in the name and behalf of Charles Hall,
the real owner of said 422 casks of wine," were it valid, cannot
now prevail; because the same should have been taken when
the claim was filed, or at all events at the time of the trial of
the cause in the Court below.

4. Thatfrom the whole record it appears, that judgment ought
not to be for the United States of condemnation of said wine;
but ought, of right, to be for the dlaimants..

5. "That from the whole of the evidence apparent upon the
record, and taken'for the purpose of review, &c." it is manifest
that restitutionaof said wine ought to be decreed to the claimants,

JANUARY TERM; 18f28.

549

(The United States s. 422 Casks of Wine.)
Mr. Justice STOrtY delivered the opinion of the Court.This is the same cause which cainebefore this Court at February term. 1823, and is reported in 8 Wieat. 391. The cause
having been remanded to.the District Court of -Louisiana for
farther proceedings, the libel or information was there amended, so as to become, technically, an exchequer information of seizure; and the parties being at issue upon the question of forfeiture, the jury returned a verdice or the claimants, upon
which judgment was rendered in their favour. Upon the writ
of error now brought up on this last judgment, two grounds for
reversal have been asserted in the assignment of errors spread
upon the record, and the Attorney General has now submitted them, after a brief exposition, to the consideration of the
Court.
The first is in substance the same question which was decided by thig Court, upon the. former appeal, and is presented in
the shape of a re-argument by the District.Attorney. Upon
this it is unnecessary to say more, than that we adhere to the
opinion formerly expressed, and caii perceive no reason for
changing it. It is not the habit of this Court to consider points
again open for discussion, which have been once deliberately
decided, and have furnished the ground work of the judgment
already rendered in the same cause, in a former stage of its
presentation here.
The second ground is, that Messrs. Hazard & Williams, in
whose behalf the claim in this case was interposed, are not the
real owners of the wine under seizure, but the same was owned by one Charles Hall; so that the claimants are not entitled
to any judgment of restitution.
This objection is founded upon a mistaken view of the tie.
nature and order of the proceedings proper in suits in rem,
whether arising on the admiralty or exchequer side of the
Court. In such suits, the claimant is an actor, and is entitled
to come before the Court in that character only, in virtue of
his proprietary interest in the thing in dontroversy; this alonle
gives him a personastandi in judfcio. It is necessary that he
should establish his right to that character, as'a preliminary
to his admission as a party, ad litem, capable of sustaining the
litigation. He is therefore, in the regular and proper course
of practice, required in the first instance, to put in his claim,
upon oath, averring in positive terms his proprietary interest.
If he refuses so to do, it is a sufficient reason for a rejection of
his claim. If the claim be made through the intervention of
an agent, the agent is in like manner requii ed to make oath
to his belief of the verity of the claim; and if necessary, he may
also be required -to produce and prove his authority, before he

560

SUPREME COURT.

(The United States v..422 Casks of Wine.)
cau be admitted to put in the claim. If this isnot done,itfurnishes'matter of eXception, and may be insisted upon by the adverse
party, for the dismissal of the claim. 'If the claim be admitted upon"this, preliminary proof, it is still open to contestation,
and, by a suitable exceptive allegation, in "theadmiralty, or,
by a correspondent plea in the nature of a plea, in abatement,
to the person of the claimant, inthe exchequer, the facts of
proprietary interep, sufficient. to support the claim, may be
put in cottestaibn, and formally decided. It is in this stage
of the proceedings, and in this only, that th' question of the
claimant's right.is generally open for discussion. -If the claim
is admittel without objection, and allegations or *pleadings to
the merits are subsequently, put-in; it is a waiver of the. preliminary inqtiry, and an admission that. the party is rightly in
Court, and capable of contesting th'e merits. -If indeed, it
should afterwards appear, upon the trial, even after the merits
have been disposed of -in favour of. the, claimants, that the
claimant had, in reality, no title to the property; but that the
same was the property of a third person, who was not represented by the claimant or-'had an adverse interest, or whose
rights had been defrauded, it, might .till be the duty of the
Court to retain the property in its own custody, untir the true'
owner might have an'opporiunity to interpose a claim, and receive it from the Court. .3ut such cases can raiely occur; and
are applicatibns -to-the discretion of the Court, for tle furthefance of jistice,; and, in nQ:shape .matters, which, the original
promovent couldhave a right to require at its hgnds.
From this review of the practice, as to claims. in proceedings in refn, it is -bvious that the objection 'now relied on,
however apparent itmight be from the evidence disclosed upon
the. record, could not be insisted on as matter *oferror. In a
strict sense. however, this being a writ.of error upon all. dxchequer information, tried by a jury, the eVidence given at the
trial is not properly before us ; and-as a co.nimon law proceeding, the affidavit of Mr. Hennor constitutes io- part of the record. But, even if that affidavit wdre'admissihle, and the objection were nIoN ope.n,. it is by no means clear, that it would
be available. The property was 'by the -conspnt of Hall sold
and conveyed to Messrs. Hazard S& -iVlliams, in trust for himself. If that conveyance was Fraildulent as to creditors, it was
not absolutely void, axd" on)y voidable by them. And, at all
events, we cahnot but see that-they had full authority-to interpose this claim, by.the consent of the rzal 6wner.; and the itregularity,' if any, prejudices no adverse right, and interferes
with no rule of justice.
The judgment of the District Court must therefore be affirmed. But a cert'.cate of probable cause of seizure will be

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

551

(The United States vs. 422"Casks of Wine.)
granted, as such probable cause is not denied to exist, and indeed is apparent from the verdict of the first jury.
This cause came on, &c. on consideration whereof, It is contidered and adjudged by this Court, that there is uo error in the
judgment of the.said District Court of Louisiana in the premises, and that the same be and hereby is affirmed. And it is
further ordered and a.djudged, that there was a reasonable cause
of seizure of the wines, and promises set forth, in the information, and that a certificate thereof be entered.'of record accordingly; and that the cause be remanded with directions to the
District Court of Louisiana to make restitution to the claimants. and otherwise proceed in the premises. according toha1w

