JANUARY TERM, 182&

JAMES FINDLAY, WILLIAM LYTLE, CRARLES VATrER, Ron;nrv
RITcHIE, AND OTHERS, CITIZENS OF OHIO,

THOMAS

S.

APPELLANTS,

V8.

HINDE, AND BELtNDA HIS WIFE, CITIZENS OF KEx-

TUOKY, APPELLEES.

If, in a case where the oss of a deed or other instrument, is made the ground
for coming into a Court of Equity, for discovery and relief, an affidavit
of its loss must be made and annexed to the bill, and the absence of

such affidavit is good cause of demurrer to the bill; yet, if-the party
charged by the bill failed to demur for that cause, but answered over to

the bill, or permitted it to be taken for confessed, by default, aainst him ;

it seems, that the absence of the u.fidavit is not a sufficient cause for the
reversal of the decree. {2441
If a deed has not been proved, acknowledged, and recorded, and would

therefore be insufficient against subsequent purchases, without notice;
parties who claim under such deed, bavxe. rightto come into a Court of
Equity, for a discovery, upon the ground of notice; and if notice should
be brought home tosubsequent purchasers, the complainants have a right
to relief, by a decree quieting the title. 12451
Where, in a bill filed for discovery and relief, the party relied upon a deed
said to have been lost, but which had never been formally executed to
convey the real estate; and upon a receipt of the purchase money, binding
the party to convey the estate ; the person alleged to have executed the
lost deed, and who gave the receipt, should have been made a party to
the proceeding; although he bad, subsequently, by a legal and formal
conveyance, duly executed, conveyed the estate to others; and thus, so
far as he could, divested himself of all title in the same, 12461
The decree of the Circuit Court directed two of the defendants, in whom was
the legal title 'to the lot of ground blaimed by the plaintiff in the bill, to
convey the same; and awarded costs, generally, against all the defendants.
All the defendants appealed together, to this Court, some of whom held
the legal title to the lot, and all the defendants had an interest in defending thLis.title, standing as they did, in the relation of vendors and warrantees,And vendees.

Although the defendants, against whom there is

a decree for costs.only, could not appeal from this decree for costs; yett
the reversal of the decree of the Circuit Court was made general, as to all
of the appellants, and the whole case opened. 12471

THE appellees filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of Ohio, praying a discovery; and that
the defendants may convey to the complainants such a title as
they have acquired, to a lot of ground in the town of Cincinnati, and deliver up the possession acquired by them; and also
that they account for the profits; and for general relief.
The title set up by the complainants, was alleged to be derived from a receipt given by Abraham Garrison, in whom the
title to the lot was then vested, which receipt was in the following terms ."Received. Cincinnati, 10th September 1799, of Win. and
VOL. T.
Hh

242

SUPREME' COURT.
(Findlay et al. vs. Hincde & Wife.)

Michael Jones, fifty pounds thirteen shillings and three pence,
in part of a lot opposite Mr. Conn's, in Cincinnati, for two hundred and fifty dollars, which I will make them a warrantee deed
for the same, on or before the twentieth day this instant.
Signed, ABRAHAm GARRISo."
Test, Jacob Awl.
And from a deed, executed on the following day, by which
Abraham Garrison, for the consideration of 250 dollars, conveyed the lot to William"and Michael Jones, which deed was
said to have been lost by time and accident. The lot was, by
subsequent conveyances, claimed- to be vested in the complainants. No affidavit is attached to the bill, showing that the deed
was not in the complainants' possession, or'setting forth that it
had been so lost or destroyed.
To this bill, the defendants, James Findlay, Charles Vattier,
William Lytle, and Robert Ritchie, answered separately; and
a decree was entered against the other defendants for hosts, the
bill having been taken pro coqfesao against them, they not having answered.
After hearing, this Court gave a decree against the defendants who had answered; and all the defendants appealed to this
Court.
The bill, answer, exhibits, and depositions, showed a case
containing many controverted. facts and allegations; and the
questions of law arising upon the same, were elaborately argued
by Mr. Webster and Mr. Caswell, for the appellants; and by
Mr. Dodridge and'Mr. Jones, for the appellees.
The decision of this Court, by which the decree of the Circuit Court of Ohio was reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings, was upon two questions of chancery prao.
tice; wlhich were raised by the counsel for the appellants.
1. The Court have decreed relief to the complainants, on the
bare suggestion that the deeds once existed, which are lost,
when no affidavit is attached to the bill, showing that the deeds
were not in complainant's possession; and without such an affidavit a Court of Chancery has no jurisdiction of the cause.
The .ppellants cited the following cases, to. show the error of
this proceeding. lMitford's PI. 592, 112. 2 Pdre Williams, 540,
541. 3 .Blk. 17. 132. 4 Jtohn. Ch. Rep. 297.
2. The complainants not having thown a deed from Garrison to the Jones's, must rely upon the receipt from Garrison to
the Jones's, as an equitable title; and if they claim that equitable right, they of course must make G arrison, the elder, and the
Jones's, parties to the suit. Upon this point, the counsel for the

-appellants cited Simms vs. Guthrie*and others. 9 Crnch 25.
No opinion having been expressed by the Court, upon the
merits of the cause, or upon the general questions presented by

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

,43

(Findlav et al. vs. Hinde & Wife.)
the counsel; it is not deemed proper to state the arguments of
counsel, in this report.
Mr. Justice Tit-mLE delivered the opinion of the Court.,
This is a contest for lot number 86, in the city 6f Cincinnati. The appellees, *ho were complainants in the Court below,
claim the lot, in right of the complainant, Belinda, as'half-sister and heir at law of Thomas Doyle, Jun. only son of Thomas
Doyle, the elder.
In the year 1795, Abraham Garrison became the proprietor,
and was seised in fee of the lot in controversy.
The bill charges, that on the 10th of September, 1799, Abraham Garrison, being so seised, sold the lot to William and
-Michael Jones,- brothers, and partners in trade, for the price
of 250 dollars; part of which being paid, the said Abraham
Garrison gave a receipt fdr the same, binding himself to convey; which receipt is annexed, and made part of the bill: That a
few days after, the said Abraham Garrison made a deed of
conveyance, attested by two witnesses, to the Jones's, for the
lot; which deed has been lost by time and accident: That on
the 26th of March, 1800, MWilliam Jones, in behalf of the firm
of William and Michael Jones, conveyed the lot to Thomas
Doyle, jun.; and that although the intention of that conveyance
was to pass the title of both partners, and is ifi
equity good for
that purpose; yet, as it did not pass the legal title of Michael
Jones, he has since, in the year 1819, for the purpose of confirming the title of the complainants, rhade a deed of confirmation to the complainant, Thomas S. Hinde.
rarious other matters are stated in the bill, as strengthening and confirming the equitable right of the corhplainants, in'
right of the said Belinda, as heir at law of Thomas Doyle,
jun.
The bill charges, that the defendants have fraudulently, and
with notice of the claim of Thomas Doyle, jun. ad of the
complainants, subsequently, obtained conveyances of the legal
title, from and under Abraham Garrison, and seeks discovery
and relief.
The defendants, James Findlay, William Lytle, Charles
Vattier, and Robert Ritchie, answered; and the bill was taken
as confessed, against the other defendants, for want of answer.
The answer put in issue, generally, 'the allegations of the
bill, and the title of the complainants; but it is hot at present
necessary to say, whether they do or do not, sufficiently, deny
notice.
It appears, from the answers, and title deeds filed in the
cause, that all the defendants, as well those who have not answered, as those wh6 have, are interested in defending the title'

244

SUPREME COURT.

(Findlay et al. v8. Hinde & Wife.)
of the lot: they standing in relation to each other as vendorsN
warrantees, and vendees.
At the hearing of the cause, in the Circuit Court, the defendants; Vattier and Ritchie, were decreed to convey to the
complainants; and costs were decreed against all the defendants; and all of the defendants have joined in the appeal to this
Court.
The appellants contend, that the decree is erroneous, upon
several grounds, which have been very elaborately argued at
the bar. Among these, two preliminary objections have been
raised, to the regularity of the proceedings and decree ; and if
either of them be sustained, it will be unnecessary to consider
the more important objections made to the decree, upon the
merits of the conflicting claiims of the parties.
The first preliminary, objection is, that no affidavit of the
loss of the deed, from Garrison to the Jones's "by time and
accident," as charged in the bill, was made and annexed to
the bilL.
In support of this objection, the counsel for the 'appellants
have cited numerous authorities, to pro 'e,that when the loss
of a deed, or other instrument, is made the ground for coming
into a -ourt of Equity, for discovery end relief, an affidavit of
its losb must be made, and amiexed to the bill-and, that the
absence of such affidavit, is good Cause of demurrer to the
bill. Bu,no case has been cited, and.none. is recollected, in
whicl i nas been decided, that although the party charged,
failed to temur for that cause, but answered over to the bill,
or permitted it to be taken for confessed, by default, against
him, yet the absence of the affidavit is sufficient cause for a
reversal of the decree.
If such a decided case were shown, we should exceedingly
doubt its reason and authority.
The objection appears to us to be of that character, which
ought to be made at the earliest practicable stage of the cause;
and if not then made, should be considered as waived. Upon
the face-of the bill there is an apparent jurisdiction, and the
use of the affidavit is only to showprimafacie,the truth of the
matter.
It is not like the cases in which there is an apparent want of
equity, on the face of the bills, admitting all the facts stated
to be true; nor like the case, in which it is apparent, on te
face of the bill, that a Court of Equity could have no jurisdiction of the matters charged. In such cases, although ,ademurrer will be to the bill, yet none is necessary; inasmuch as
there is either an absolute want of equity, or of jurisdiction.
We think the supposed former existence and loss of the deed
from Garrison to the Jones's. wis got the only ground fox ap-

JANUARY- TERM, 1828.

245

(Findlay et al. tw. Hinde &Wife.)
pealing to a Court of Equity for relief. If the deed, as stated
in the bill, were produced, it, in consequence of not being
proved, or acknowledged and recorded, would be insufficientas a legal title against subsequent purchasers, without notice.
The.complainants had a light to a discovery, upon the ground
of notice, against the defendants; and if notice should be
brought home to them, the complainants had a right to relief,
by a decree quieting the title, &c.
Again: If the complainants should fail, as we think they
have failed, to prove, by competent'axfd satisfactory evidence,
the former existence, execiltion, and contents of a formal deed
of -conveyance, sufficient to pass the legal title; we perceive no
reason why they might not rely upon the executory contract
contained in the receipt; and in this latter view of the case,
the jurisdiction of the Court of Equity is unquestionable; and
a general demurrer to the whole,bill, for w'ant of an affidavit,
would not be sustainable. At most, a demurrer to only so
much of the bIll as stated and relied on the deed, could have
been maintained for want of an affidavit of its loss.
The second preliminary objection to the proceedings and decree, is the want of properparties.
It has been argued, for the appellants, that Abraham Garrison was a necessary party; and, that as the complainants claim
through him by an executory contract; he ought to have been
before the Court before any decree could be made against the
defendants; who also claim through and under him, by a subsequent conveyance of the legal title.
The counsel for the appellees endeavoured to"overcome this
objection, by arguing, that the deed from Garrison to the
Jones's, conveyed the title from him to them; -thatthe contract
was, therefore, not executory, but executed between Garrison
and the JQies's; and further, if it were not so, that there was
no necesssity for bringing Garrison before the Cburt; he having conveyed away the legal title to the appellants; and theat
therefore no decree could be made against him.

We have already, said, the evidence in the cause does not

establish a formally executed conveyance from Garrison to the

Jones's, sufficient to convey the legal title; and that the com-

plainants are therefore driven to rest their case upon the executory contract, contained in the receipt.
Under this aspect of the case, was it necessary to make Garrison a party, to enable the Court to pronounce a decree between the parties,-':eally before the Court?
In the case of 'Symmes vs. Guthrie, 9 Cranch, 25, this Court
declared the general rule to be, that, "regularlyj the claimants
who have an equitable title, ought to make those whose title
they assert as well as the persoin for whom they claim a con-

246

SUPREME COURT.

(Findlay et a. vs. Hinde & Wife.)
veyance, parties to the suit." "And that for omitting to do
so, an original bill may be dismissed."
In the case of Mallon and others vs. Hinde, 12 Wfleat. 193.
196, the cdmplainants claimed a survey id.the military district,
in Ohio, by virtue of certain executory contracts, with Elias
Langham, and the heirs of Sarah Beard; and sought, by their
bill against Hinde, to obtain a conveyance from him of the legal title; which, it was alleged, ne had fraudulently obtained,
with notice of the complainants' prior equity. Langham, and
the heirs of Sarah Beard, were not made defendants; and for
that cause, the detree was reversed. There is no distinction,
in principle, between that case and this. In that case, this
Court, in delivering its opinion, hold the following language:
"For the appellees, itis insisted the proper parties are not before the Court, so as to enable the Court to decree upon the
merits of conflicting claims. And we are all of that opinion."
"The complainants can derive no claim in equity to the survey, under or through Langham's executory contract with
the Beards, unless these -contracts be such as ought to be decreed against them, specifically, by a Court of Equity." "1How
can a Court of Equity decide, that these contracts ought to be
specifically decreed, without hearing the parties to them? Such
a proceeding would be contrary to the rules which govern
Courts of Equity, and against the principles of natural justice."
This reasoning applies with equal force to the case at bar.
Here, however perfect all the other links may be in the chain
of the complainant Belinda's equitable title to the lot in contest, she can have no claim to it in equity, but through and under the executory contract of Garrison with the Jones's. Garrison has a right to'contest the equitable obligation of that contract. - No decree 'can be made for the complainants, without
first deciding, that the contract of Garrison ought to be specifically decreed. He might insist the purchase money had not
been paid, or make various other defences. It is not true, that
if he were made a party, no decree could be made against him.
It might not be necessary to require him to do ahy act, but it
would be indispensable to decide against him the invalidity of
his obligation to convey, and overrule such defence as he might
make; and if the purchase money had not been paid, to provide
by the decree for its payment, before any decree could be made
against the defendants holding the legal title. We are all of
opinion, that upon this second preliminary objection, the decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed.
A question of some difficulty presents itself, as to the extent
of the reversal. The decree of the Circuit Court directs the
defendants, Ritchie and Vattier, to convey certain portions of

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

94:

(Findlay et al. vs. Hinde & Wife.)
the lot of ground; and awards costs, generally, against all the
defendants. There is no doubt, the defendants, against whom
there is only a decree for costs, could not appeal alone, f.om
the decree of costs. But the defendants, below, have all appealed together, and although some of them hold the legal title to
the lot, yet they all have an interest in defending the title;
standing as they do, in the relation of vendo s and warrautees,
and vendees. Under these circumstances, we think the reversal
should be general, as to all of the appellants, and the whole
case opened. And we, are the more inclined to adopt this
course, because, so numerous, and so great, have been the irregularities in conducting the cause in the Court below, from'its
commencement to its termination, by decree; that it seems impracticable that justice be done between the partie3. withoul
sending the cause back, as to all the parties; with directions,
that the complainants have leave, if asked by them, to amend
their bill, and make the proper parties; and to proceed dMnovo
in the cause, from filing, such amended bill.
This cause came on, Sec. on consideration whereof, It is the
opinion of this Court, that there is error in the proceedings and
decree of said Circuit Court, in this, that Abraham 'Garrisdn
ought to have been made a party, but was not, before a decree
was made between the parties in the cause. Whereupon it isadjudged, decreed, and ordered, that the decree of said'Circuit
Court, for the district of Ohio, in this cause, be and the same
is hereby wholly reversed, annulled, and set aside. And it is
further ordered, that the cause be remanded to the Court from
whence it came, with instructions to permit the complainants,
upon application for that purpose, to amend their bill, and to
make proper parties, and to proceed de novo in the cause, frot
the filing of such amended bill. as,Law and Equity may require-

