SUPREME COURT.

WILLIMA KONhG, WHO IS AN ALIEN, PLAINTIFF B1ELOW, V8. WILLLkM BA'YARD, WILLIAM1 BAYARD, JR. ROBERT BAYARD,

AND

JACOB LE Roy, CITIZENS OF THE STATE OF NEW-YORK.

A stranger to the c, twer and endorser of a non-accepted bill of exchange,
may intervene stipraprotest, to pay the same for the honour of an endorser or drawer. 12621
It is no objection o this intervention, that it has been done at the request,
and under the guarantee of the drawees of the bill; who had refased to
accept or pay the same. The arangements made by the payer of the dishonoured bill, with the drawee, by which he was to be protected from
loss, do not affect the liability of the party to the bill, for whose honour
it has been paid. 12621
If A, at the request of the drawee of a bill of exchange, and under his
guarantee, accept and pay the bill, supra protest, for the honour of the
endorscr, the party against whom suit is brought *or the amobnt paid,
may avail himself of every defence which he could have had, if the bill
had been paid supra protest, for thehonour of the endorser, by the draucc, and suit brought, ibr the same. {2621
THIS was an v ion of assumpsit, instituted in the Circuit
Court of the Uni 'd States, for the southern Circuit of NewYork; by Willia. Konig, a merchant of Amsterdam, carrying
on business under the firm of William Koni- & Co. against
the 'defendants, merchants in New-Yoik, trading under the
firn of Le Roy, Bayard & Co.
The action was upon a folreign bill of exchange, and the declaration charges, that the same was drawn at Baltimore, on
the d day of September, 1822, by John C. Delprat, on N. Sc
J.& R. Van Staphorst, of Amsterdam, in Holland, at sixty
days sight, for 21,500 florins, in favour of the defendants, an[
-madepayable to them, or order. That the defendants, on the
fourth of September, in the same -ear, endorsed the same to
L. H. Huder, who endorsed it to Rougemont &cBehrendsand that they, on the 25th of Novenber, 1822, presented the

bill, (the same being unaccepted and unpaid,) to the draweesfor
acceptance, by whom acceptance was refused, and the bill protested for non-acceptance; and that the plaintiff on the same

day, at Amsperdam, to prevent the bill from being sent back to
the defendants, did, under that protest, and for tie honour and
account of the defendants, accept the bill, in writing, and gave
notice thereof to the defendants.
That the bill was afterwards, and before payment, endorsed
ny Rougemont 8c-Behrends to N. M. Rothschild, who endorsed it to M. Rothschild &cSons, who endorsed it to B. J.Dc

Jough &cFils; and the.last endorsees, when the bill became due

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

251

(Konig Vs. Bayard et a].)
and payable, viz. on the 2Q5th of January, 182 S,'at Amsterdam,
presented it to the drawees for payment; that payment was reused; and the holders, being the last endorseeg aforesaid, caused the bill to be protested for non-payment; and the plaintiff
thereupon, upon the protest, and for the honour and account
of thie defendants, the first endorsers, paid the bill. to B. J. De
Jongh &cFils, together with two thousand guilders for the cost
of the protest, and other charges, and gave due fidtice thereof
to the defendants.
The declaration also contained the usual money counts; upon which the general issue was pleaded; and upon the trial of
the cause, a verdict was taken for the plaintiff, for 9852 dollars
78 cents; subject to the opinion of the Court on the following
case; with liberty to either party td turn the same into a special.verdict, or bill of exceptions.
It was admitted that the bill was drawn by.John C. Delprat, in favour of defendants; and that on the 18th day of October, 1892, the defendants endorsed it, and transmitted it to
Messrs. Rougemont kc Behrends, at London; and that afterwards-the bill was endorsed by Messrs. Rougemont & Behrends
to N. M. Rothschild, who endorsed it to M. Rothschild &
Sons, who endorsed it to B. J. De Jongh & Fils, as charged
in the declaration. And in order to prove that the bill was duly
protested for non-acceptance and nou-payment, and that after
the same was so protested for non-acceptance, the same was
accepted, supra protest, by the plaintiff, for the honour and account of the defendants, the endorsers; and that after the said
bill was protested for non-payment, the same was paid, su.pra
protest,. by the plaintiff, for the honour and account of the defendants, the endorsers; the plaintiff read in evidence the protest for non-acceptance and non-payment, which were admitted
by the counsel of the defendants to be read in evidence for that
purpose.
The endorsemdnts on the bill were:
Pay Mr. L. Huder, or order, value received. New-York,
4th Sept. 1822. Signed, LE RoY,- BAYARD &c Co. Pay to the
order of Messrs. Rougemont R Behrends, of London, value in
account. New-York, 1st October, 1822. Signed, L. H. HuDEn. Dec. 28, No. 279, presented for stamp at Amsterdam,
!2d Nov. 1822. Received with the augmentation, fl. 13 73.
Signed, ELVSma.
The protest for non-acceptance, stated, that on the application of the rote y to the drawees, N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst,
Amsterdam, they refused to accept the bill, stating, " that
wliereas the drawer has quite wrongfully drawn his bill, we,
therefore, cannot accept the same, and moreover regret, that
in order to preserve ou r just rights against him, (meaning the

Q54-

SUPREME COURT.

(Konig vs. Bayard et al.)
drawer,) we cannot even interfere in behalf of those to whom
this bill was passed."
The protest also stated the following "Act of Intervention :"
And forthwith appeared and came forward, those same gentlemen, Messrs. WVm. Konig & Co., who'declared that they
were actually ready, on account, and for the honour of the firm
of Messrs. Le Roy, Bayard & Co. as endorsers upon this same
bill of exchange, to accept the said bill, and for the purpose of
paying the amount thereof on the day of its maturity; and accordingly, the same gentlemen, Messrs. nVm. Konig & Co., v.fact did, and have signed the same.
The protest for non-payment, stated the same answer to have
been given by the drawees, when payment of the bill was 'demanded, as made when acceptance was applied for, and also
-that, after the protest for non-payment.
Subsequently, the gentlemen, Messrs. Konig & Co. commission merchants, residing in tpip city, at the Cloveniers
Burgwal, duly patented for the past year, as appears by their
-certificate, dated 24th June, No. 13S3, to us the Notaries exhibited, who, after having previously examined and read the
aforecopied bill of exchange, as likewise this present protest,
declared, that they, in consequence of their acceptance, under
protest, should honour and pay this bill of exchange, and
which, in fact, they have done, for the honour and on account
of Messrs. Le Roy, Bayard 8 Co., as the first endorsers thereon, reserving, at the same time, their right against them, and
all the others thereby interested.
The following letters were offered -in evidence on the part of
the defendants, and objected to on the part of the plaintiff; but
the objection being overruled by the Court, they were read in
evidence as follows.-

Messrs. ROUGEMONT

& BEHRENDs,'London.
New-York, 18th October 1822.
Gentlemen-We'have now simply to request you to obtain
acceptance of the enclosed draft; we do not wish it negotiated
until it should be first accepted, either for the honour of the
drawer, or f6r ours and endorsers; we only wish that it may
appear as having been sent to you for negotiation by the last
endorser. It is drawn by the agent of the Amsterdam house,
and as we enclose it as such, we wish it to be returned with the
regular forr ality of law, should it not, contrary Co bur expec.
tations, be accepted.
With respect, we are, &c.
LB Roy, BAYARD k Co.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

25S

tK6nig vs. Bayard.et A)
It was admitted, that tlie abov;letter was not transmitted,
nor the contents thereof communicated by Messrs. Rougemont
and Behrends, to thk plaintiff.
ROUGEMONT St BEHRENDS to Messrs. WILLIAM KoNIG k Co.
Amsterdam.
London, 19th November 1822.
L
We beg you to havk-the enclosed accepted 1st of fl. 21,500,
60 days on N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst, and hold the same to
the disposal of the 2d, 3d, and 4th. You will oblige me by
mentioning the day of acceptarke, and, in case of refusal, you
Will have the bill protested. If accepted, please let us know
the amount of'stamp duties, &cc.
The defendants also read in evidence the following extracts
of letters from the plaintiff to Rougemont & Behrends.
Smsterdam, 22d November 1822.

Messrs.

RoUGEMONT S BHRENIDS,

London.

We had this pleasure 19th instant, and are to-day in possession of your favour. The enclosed fl. 21,500 on N. & J. k R.
Van Staphorst, will be presented for acceptance, and. kept to
the disposal of duplicate; for stamp duty-we debit you in postage account, which is f. 14.5s. Messrs. Van Staphorst have
deferred the answer whether they will accept said bill till tomorrow. We cannot inform you of the result until Tuesday,
aid in case of refusal will forward you the protest.
.tmsterdi., 26th of November 1822
Messrs. RoUGEMONT S BEIRENDs, London.
We refer to our respects of the 22d instant. Messrs. N. Sc
J. 8c R. Van 6taphorst, after having deferred the -rceptance
of the bill of fl.'21,500, 60 days, till yesterday, nc-y Arefuse to
accept; we had also the bill presented for non-acceptance, at
the same time honouring it for account of Le Roy, Bayard &
Co. in New-York. The bill has also been accepted on the 25th
of November, and will be due on the 24t i-of January next.
We will keep it at the disposition of the 1sty,Sd, or 4th, or any
copy authenticated by your endorsement.
They also read in evidence the following letters fron-tnx-.
plaintiff to the defendants.
.tmsterdam, 26th of November 1822.
Messrs. LE Roy, BA-yAnD &tCo. New-York.
Gentlemen-Having been charged by Messrs. Rougemont &
Behrends dF London, to procure the acceptance of a second of
exchange of bill of f2. 21,500, Mr. John C. Delprat at Baki,,
more, of 2d Septemuer, to your order, on Messrs. N. 8 J. &
R. Van Staphorst. These gentlemen have refused to accept
it, expressing their regret at being unable on this occasion
even to protect your signature, and save you heavy damages.

SUPREME COURT.
(Konig us. Bayard et al)

We have determined to offer it, on the assurance that this intervention would be agreeable to you, and we remit you annexed, in consequence, the protest for non-acceptance, and the
act of intervention for the 1.9,500, becoming due 24th January-accepted *25th November for your account. At maturity
we will send you all the papers in order, and as it appears certain that Messrs. Vafil Staphorst will not pay the draft of Mr.
Delprat, you can at present admit that you will leave it to reimburse us this intervention, with commission, expenses, and
interest. We renew, gentlemen, on this occasion, the offer of
our services, desirous that it may be agreeable to yoxi to require them.
.'2msterdarn, 28th Jnuary 182S.

& Co. New-York.
Gentlemen-W-4Ve have the honour to confirm our letter of

Messrs. LE Roy,

BAYARD

26th November, of which a triplicate is annexed, and to inform
you that Messrs. N. & J. S R. Van Staphorst, having persisted in their refusal to pay the bill of exchange of 1.51,500, of
Mr. John C. T)elprat to your order upon them, we have paid
it under protest, and act of intervention, for your honour.
Accompanying this you receive the papers consisting of first
draft in first and second. 2. Protest of act of intervention. S.
Amount relative thereto. Will you, 'gentlemen, please to acknowledge the accuracy of this amount, on 94th January,
fl.21,647, and credit us the amount.
.8rnsterdamr, 2d September 1823.

Messrs. Lx, Roy,

BAYARD & Co. New-York.

Gentlemen-On the 26th of November past year, we informed you of our having intervened with acceptance for your honour and account, as endorsers, a draft of fi.21,500, John C.
Delprat's draft 60 ds. sight, Baltimore, 2d September, in your
favour, protested for non-acceptance against the said drawer,
while on the 28th January we had the honour to inform you
that we had paid the above bill, by intervention, for your account; handing you, at the same time, the original bill duly
discharged, together with necessary protest and act of intervention. Since. that time we have only received your lines of
the 31st January last, by which you thank us for the intervention made by us, but observe, that Messrs. N. & J. &R. Van Staphorst had, at the same titne, informed you, that they had guarantied to us the reimbursement of that draft, for which reason
you refer us to these gentlemen.
To our letter returning to you duly discharged, and paid by
,us for your account, the aforementioned bill, you did not give
_-us any reply. Messrs. N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst have only
" uarantied us in case we should not be able to recover our re-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

55

(Konig vs. Biyard et al.)
imbursement from you, for whose account we intervened; and
they are thus entitled to ask from us, that we enforce that payment from you, to which measure that guarantee obliges us, and
the effect of which we cannot but maintain, so that, in order to
obtain that payment which you owe us, we have nbw valued
this day on you at sixty days; SS,600, 93,400, SI,939.80, order
Gulial; Ludlow, Esq. at the exchange of 50 stg.--fi.22,832, being the exact amount of our intervention, together with interest and charges to this day, as per note annexed, which we recommend to your protection, and request you to honour in
payment of the amount expended by us for your account. If
you, against our expectation, refuse to pay this bill, we must
inform you, that we have given our most strict and precise order immediately to enforce payment by force of la'w, to which
purpose we must then demand from you the original bill paid,
with protest, &c. which we request and authorize you, by the
present, to deliver to Gulian Ludlow, Esq. of your city, whom
we have empowered to give receipt for these documents; which
are our property till you have paid us fo them. We are obliged to do this act of devoir; in order to obtain final reimbursement; while we hope and trust you cannot take this measure.
necessary to us, in any evil light.
We remain, very sincerely, gentlemen,
Your most obedient servants,
XVILLIAM KOXIG & Co.
The .following letter from N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst to the
defendants, .was also offered in evidence, and objected to on the
part of the plaintiff, but the objection being overruled by the
Court, was read, as follows Messrs. LE Roy, BAYARD & Co. New-York.
.dmsterdam, 25th November 1822.
Gentlemen-We confirm ou~r last respects of 12th inst. and
have since received your esteemed letters of the 4th and 5thult. first of which accuses receipt of our sundry letters up to
the 23d of Julyinclusive.
The draft advised in your esteemed favour of 5th ult. 60 days
sight-No. 368-fl.7000--favour John Telfair, meets due honour at presentation to the debit of your -account. We have.
yesterday received letters from Mr. Deiprat, dated 10th, 11th,
and 15th of October, of which we cannot fail to communicate
in a few words the purport. It is such as wd migat expect;
instead of attempting to clear up any of the distressing items
alluded to in our letters to him, or to reffitc any of the arguments which founded our conduct, Mr. D. merely falls on our
ciirculars, as he calls them, (written at the time to only four of
zhose who were owing us moneys at Baltimore, and of which'

SUPREME COURT.
(Konig-te. Bayard et 4.)

we annex copy in'our defence,) as having injured his credit:
and- further declaims against an answer, which he had been erroneously informed that we had given in the protest of one of
his bills; further, Mr. Deiprat chiefly writes, that he is very
desirous to have his accounts closed, and sent up to him; so
that, all items being properly brought therein, it may be approved by him, and our intercourse finally closed. We, of
course, shall not be backward in complying with that wishi
aid, on correctness and justice, you will easily believe that Mr.
Delprat can safely calculate. When we wrote to you our last
letters, and therein stated the amount drawn by Mr. Delprat,
so much above any thing that prudence or correctness warranted, we were indeed far from prepared for the appearance of a
fresh draft of Mr. D., valued (as the French term it) de but enblanc, without any light being spread by the letter of advice
atttached to it.
Fl.21,500-Baltimore, 2d September, at 60 ds. sight in your
favour. This draft, confirmed-in no letter of Mr. Delprat, and
dated at such an ominous timej was calculated to yield much
matter to think on. If Mr. Delprat knew of the protests of
his former, drafts, to what ought this new flourish to serve; if
not, what was his intention by drawing such a large sum again
over and above all his former dispositions; a valuation which,
*placingall possible folly and imprudence on our side, it could
not -yetpossibly be thought that we should honour without attempting to explain the matte. We have merely to express our
regret at observing again your :endorsement on the bill, and
notwithfitanding your silence in ybur last favour of 4th and 5th
instant, with regard to former interventions,.in fact rather disagreeable to us, and whatever might be the intentions of Mr.
D. at drawing the bill, .wewere too much your friends, my
dear sirs, .not immediately to come forward on account of your
signature; but consulting our legal adviser on this so strange
and surpriging incident, we were sorry to find that it was his
pogiti'e opinion, that in this peculiar case we ought not to value
at all this draft, nor in the least manner to allow that such a
draft might properly have been issued by the drawer, and thus
that we ought not to consider it at all, nor to meddle with itin
the least. So firm was our counsel in that idea, that he was
,completely against our intervening on behalf of any endorser,
as being prejudicial to, the system we ought to follow- with regard to this bill; but he thought that it was proper to note in
the protest our reason for non-acceptance and-non-intervention.
We were thus put in a.disagreeabli position; as on the one
side we did not.wish to act contrary to his advice, and to depart from a system which he though iecessary to us; and, on
the dther, we were fully determined, at all events, not to suffer

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

25.7

(Konig v. Bayard et al.)
your signature to go back without being honoured. In this
predicament, we applied to our friends Messrs. Wrn. Konig &:
Co. who had the said bill in hand, informed them of the whole
ease, and requested these gentlemen, under our guarantee, to intervene on behalf of your signature, with acceptance and payment of above bill; which favour these gentlemen have not refused to us, so that, without our-prejudice, and completely
without yours, we have duly protected your interest. We are
well persuaded you would not wish us to have done any act
which we might think detrimental to us, and we thus are confident, that you will duly appreciate our conduct in this truly
awkward affair.
The defendants also read in evidence the following letter from
them to the plaintiff:Arew-York, January 31st, 1820.
Messrs. Wm. KoNIG & Co. in Amsterdam.
Gentlemen-We are favoured with your letters of the 26th
November, apprizing us that Messrs. Rougemont & Behrends
of London, had sent you for acceptance, a draft for fl.21,500,
drawn at Baltimore, by Mr. John C. Delprat, in our favour, at
60 days sight, upon Messrs. N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst, that
these gentlemen had refused the acceptance, and that you had
intervened for our honour as endorsers; that you had no reason
to believe that it would at maturity be paid by the drawers, and
that you would thus be called upon to discharge it. Messrm
N. & J. 8 R. Van Staphorst inform us, under the date of the
25th of November, that they had informed you of the whole case,
(in relation to this draft,) and had requested you, under their
guarantee, to intervene. It remi.ins, thereforej but for us to
thank you for the honour which you purposed doing,1qs, and
to refer you to Messrs. N. k J.. & R. Van Staphorst for a release from the responsibility assumed under their guarantee,
and for them.
We have the honour to. be, Gentlemen,
Your humble servants,
LE Roy, ' 3AYARD SC Co.
It was admitted, that the said bill, for fl.21,500, was drawn
several days after the date of it. That the same was drawn by
the said John C. Delprat, on his own account generally, and
not on any shipment; and that the said bill was drawn after
the said J. C. Delprat heard from the defendants,. that his bills
.on Messrs. N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst had been protested.
That the said J. C. Delprat' sent to the defendants, an order on
Messrs. N. S: J. &cR. Van Staphorst, dated 4th September
189.2 , (a copy of which order is hereunto annexed;) and that
the said bill was sent therewith to the defendants; that there

58

SUPREME COURT.

(Konig v8. Bayard et al.)
were other dealings between the defendants and the said John
C. Delprat, besides those growing out of the agency of the said
John C. Delprat for the Messrs. N. 8c J. & R. Van Staphorst;
that the defendants, in the course of those dealings, during the
summer of 1822, loaned to the said John C. Delprat, a large
sum of money ow his own account, wh'ch loans were carried
by them into their general account with the said John C. Delprat; and that the said bill wa. given to the defendants, by the
said John C. Delprat, to repay them for the said advances to
him, as far as the same v*ould go.

Messrs. N. & J. & R.

VAv STAPHoIST, Amsterdam.

Baltimore, Sept. 4th 1822.
Gentlemen-You will please hold all balances due to me by
you; all the proceeds bf goods sold or unsold, shipped in my
name, per Virgin and other vessels, to the orderand for the
use of Messrs. Le Roy, Bayard & Co., and for which this letter will be your sufficient authority.
ILremain, with esteem,
Your obedient servant,
JoiN C. DELPRAT.

The Judges'of the Circuit Court divided in opinion upon the
following points, which were certified to this Court1. Whether the letters offered in evidence by the deienlants,
and objected to, ought to have been admitted.
2. Whether the plaintiff had a right, under th circumstances, to accept and pay the bill, upon which tho sAlit was
brought, for the honour of the defendants; and is nifitled to
receive the amount -thereof, with charges and interest.
The first point was waived by the counsel for the plaintiff;
and the whole argument was directed to the second point.
The cause was argued by Mr. Webster, hnd Mr. Ogden
Hoffman, for the plaintiff, and by Mr. D. B. Ogden, and Mr.
Oakley, for the defendants.
For the plaintiff.
The contents of the letter of instructions from Van Staphorsts
to J. C. Delprat, not having been -ommunicated to the plaintiff, ought not to affect him in any manner. Any stranger has
a right to intervene-in case of the non-acc: itance, or non-payment
of a bill of exchange. This is an established uiage in commercial operations, and contributes essentiall: to their safety
and certainty. To the drawer and endorsers, it saves the damages on the bill, which would be payable on its return, an"
prevents other heavy expenses.
The guarantee of the drawees, in favour 0 lvie plaintiff, was
hn arrangement exclusively between the parties; ana the defendants have no right to look to it in the transaction.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

259

(KoWg vs. Bayard et al.)
On the part of the Van Staphorsts, there was no obligation
to give the guarantee, and it was an act for the eventual protection of the plaintiff, in case of the inability of the defendants
to repay the amount of the bill; and was not given under any
supposition of the liability of the drawees to accept or pay the
bill.
If either the plaintiff or the Van Staphorsts, could pay the
bill separately, both might pay jointly. The person who pays
for the honour of another, may look to all the parties to the
bill, as well as to the person for whose honour he pays it.
The payment of a protested bill for the honour of another,
is only a mode of becoming the holder, and although against
the will of the parties to it, they thus become debtors to the
payer.
The-Common Law, and the law merchant, as part of the
Common Law, presumes a general standing request to belmade
by the- drawer and endorsers of an unpaid bill, to every friend, to
prevent the dishonour of the bill, and the burthen of heavy
damages in consequence of this. If acceptor, supra protest,
for the honour of an endorser, pays the bill, he may sue the
endorser, as be is to be considered as an endorser paying-full
value for the bill. I Ep. Rep. 112.
t6"it " on Bills, 441.
For the defendants.This mode of proceeding, by the intervention of a third
person, prevents and disables the defendants from proving that
the Van Staphorsts were bound to accept, and ought to have
paid the bill. This action is not upon the bill strictly, but it
is for money paid for the use of the defendants, by one who was
an entire stranger to them, -and had not right to intervene. A
suit cannot be brought upon the bill, because by its payment
it is extinct.
The -plaintiff interfered, not for the honour of the drawer or
endorser, but for that of the drawees. Laying aside his agency,
lie undertakes tb pay the bill, at -the request of the drawees,
and they are liable to him, and have stipulated for hid protection.
- The general rule of law is, that.no man can constitute himself the creditor of another, Without his consent, express or
implied. 6 Term Rep.- 810. 1 Beawe's Lex Alere. 63-4. The
only exception to this rule is, the case'of acceptance of a bill,supra protest.
The reasons for this rule are-i. The law implies consentof the party for whose honour acceptance is made, from the
nature of the favour conferred-being gratuitous, and incurring hazard, for the purpose of rendering a service, an acceptor,
supra protest, may demand recompense for the credit given,
for whose benefit accepiance is madr. And in case he re-draws

960

SUPREME COURT.

-(Konig ws.Bajard et al.)
on such person, his bill ought to be promlitly complied with,
besides a gratefid acknowledgment of the favour. Beawe's Lex
Merc. pl. 44. 6S, 64.
Thus it appears, that the motive of the acceptor must be
such as to entitle him to gratitude.
2. The considerationin the implied contract, in this'case, cannot be solely the benefit conferred on the endorser; as voluntarti
services may be rendered in all other cases, and no contract
will be implied.
Can there be an acceptance for the honour of an endorser,
under the guarantee of a third person? 1. It confers no honour. 9 Gives no credit. S. It is not gratuitousor voluntary.
4. It is not founded on a consideration, which can alone ly
the foundation of such a contract.
Can there be an acceptance for the honour of the payee or
endorser, under a guarantee of the drawee of the bill?
1. The drawee cannot do indirectly, what he cannot do directly. The law is settled, that, if the drawee has accepted, supra protest, for want of advice of effects, and before
the bill is payable he receives effects, he is bound to discharge
the endorser, and advise him thabhe w 11pay the bill; 1 Beawe's
Lec Merc. 109. Thus, if the Van Staphorsts had accepted, npra
protest, for the honour of the defendants, and had afterwards
received remittances from Delprat, they could not have paid
the bill, supra protest, for the honour of the defendants; and by
the acceptance, under guarantee, is intended to deprive the
defendants of the benefit of those printiples of law.
An acceptor for the honour of the drawer, must do it before
he accepts generally, "or .any ways engages or obliges himself
thereto." MariusEx.80, 81. MalynLex.ilerc.vol. 1.
By parity of reasoning, a person under any obligation to pay,
cannot pay88.
a bill, supra protest, for the honour of another. 1
Lord Bjay.
I The consequence of such proceedings might be, that, under
a secret guarantee, the drawee might avoid the fulfilment of his
4obligation to pay the bill. Another objection is, that the endorser has imposed upon him a contract, without his knowledge or consent, and this the law will not permit, under circumstances exposing him to injury.
The party affected by this intervention, cannot have the same
defe.4ce, or the means of the same defence, 'against a stranger,
as against the drawee, as the guarantee may be, and is, gene?ally, secret.
The evidence in this case shows, that the defendants did not
4desire to have the bill paid by any one but the drawees. Rougement k Behrends of London, were the agents of the d&fendants,
ind they write to the Van Staphorsts, that the holders of the

261
JARLUARY TERM, 1828;
(Konig vs. Bayard et al.)
bill desire that it may be protested, if not paid. The plaintiff,
therefore, knew that it was not the desire of. the defendanat to
save the bill from dishonour. The plaintiff was the -ageht of
the defendants to have the bill accepted, if not dishonoured.
This is shown by the letter of 19th November 1822. He could
mot, therefore, interfere to pay the bill. It was against the nature of his agency.
Mr. Chief Justice: MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court:This -suit was brought in the Court of the United States, for
the second Circuit and district of New-York, on a bill of exchange, drawn by John C.- Delprat, of Baltimore, -on Messrs.
N. &cJ. &cR. Van Staphorst, of Amsterdam, in favour of Le'
Roy, Bayard & Co. of New-York, and endorsed by them. The
bill was regularly presented and protested, after which it was
accepted and paid by the lilaintiff, for the honour of the defendants. The jury found 2 verdict for the plaintiff, subject to
the opinion of the Court, on a case stated by the parties, The
Judges of the Circuit Court-were divided in opiuion; on the
following points:
1. Whether the letters offeied in evidefnce by the defendants,
and objected to, ought to have been admitted.
9. Whether.the plaintiff had a right, under the cicumstances,
to accept and pay the bill in question, under p.otest, for the
honour of the defendants; and is entitled to recover the amohnt,
with charges and interest.
The first question is understood to be waived. It is a question which was decided by the Court, at the trial, and could
not arise after verdict, unless a motion had been'made for a
new trial.
The second requires an examination of'the case stated by
counsel. The bill was transmitted by Le Roy, Bayard & Co.
to Messrs. Rougeront & Bebrings, of London, to have it presented for acceptance, who-tnclosed it to the plaintiff, in a letter, from which the following is an extract:" "We beg
you to have the enclosed accepted; 1st, of fl. 21,500, 0
days, on N, & J. & R. Van Staphgrt, and hold the same to the
disposal of 2d, 3d, and 4th. You will oblige me by mentioning the day of acceptance, and i3*'ase of refusal, you will have
the bill protested."
The plaintiff gave immediate notice of the dishonour of the
bill, and of their intervention, for the honiour of- the defendants..
Messrs. N. t J. & R. Van Staphorst addressed a letter to
the defendants, dated the 26th of November, 1822, giving notice that the bill was dishonoured; the drawer having nP right

969

SUPREME COURT.

(Konig w. Bayard et a.)
to-draw, and that they were advised by counsel not to interpose, in their own names, for the honour of the defendants.
The letter adds, "In this predicament, we applied to our

friends, William Konig &cCo. who had the said bill in hand,
informed them of the whole case, and requested these gentlemen, under our guarantee, to intervene on behalf of your signature, with acceptance and payment of the above bill; which
favour these gentlemen have not refused to us; so that, without our prejudice, and completely without yours, we have duly
protected your interest."
The defendants also gave in evidence, a letter from the plaintiff, stating that he had intervened, at the request of N. & J.
& R.Van Staphorst, and under their guarantee; but that they
required him to proceed against the defendants, as preliminary to the performance of that guarantee.
It was admitted that the bill was drawn by J.C. Delprat, on
his own account, and not on any shipment for a debt due from
him to the defendants, for advances previously made to him;
and that he'had given to the defendants an order on N. & J. &
R. Van Staphorst, for all bAlances due from them to him.
It is not alleged that the drawees had any funds of the drawer in their hands.
The plaintiff in this case must be considered as the agent of
N. & J. & R. Van Staphorst, and as having paid the bill at
their instafice. All parties concur in stating this fact. The
Van Staphorsts adopted this circuitous course, instead of inte'rposing directly in their own names, under the advice of
counseLi They however immediately stated the transactio in
its genidtne colours, to the defendants. It is impossible to
doubt, that a person may thus intervene, thr6ugh an agent, if
it be his ,will to do'so. The suspicion which might be excited
by proceeding, unnecessarily, in. this circuitous manner, cannot
affect a transaction, which was immediatily communicated,
with all its circumstances, to the persons in whose behalf the
intervention had been made; unless those persons were exposed to some inconvenience, to. which they would not have been
exposed, had the interposition been direct. This is not the
case* in the present instance, since it cannot be doubted that
-thedefendants might have availed themselves of every defence
in this action, of which they could have availed themselves,
had N. & J.& R. Van Staphorst been plaintiffs. The case
shows plainly, that the bill was not drawn on funds, and that
the drawees were not bound to accept or pay it. No reason,
therefore, can be assigned, why the person who has made himselZ the holder of the bill, by accepting and paying it under
protest, should not recover its amount from the drawer And
endorsers.

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

263

(Konig vs. Bayard et al.)
This cause came on to be heard, on a certificate of divisioni
of opinion of the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the southern district of New-York, and on the points
on which the said Judges were divided in opinion, and was
argued by counsel, on- consideration whereof, This Court is of
opinion, that the plaintiff had a right, under the circumstances, to accept and pay the bill in question, under protest, for
the honour of the defendants, and is entitled to recover the
amount, with charges and interest; which is ordered to be certified to the said Circuit Court.

