JANUARY TERM, 1829.

RonI;.T BARRY,

PLAINTIFF IN

EnRon, vs. THOmAS FoYLbE.

The defendant in error had sued out an attachment, under the law of Mlaryland, against Robert Barry, aid had filed an account against James D. Bar-

ry, said to have been assumed by Robert Barry, the plaintiff in error. Robert Barry appeared, gave special bail, and discharged the attachment.

The plaintiff below, then filed' a declaration of "indbilatus assumpsit,"
"for money had and received," and "for goods sold and delivered," to
which Robert Barry pleaded the general issue. The parties went to tr;al
and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant in error.
The Court attaches no importance to the variance between the account filed

when the attachment issued, and the declaration filed after the attachment
was dissolved, by the entry of bail, and the appearance of the defendant.
The defendant haiing pleaded to the declaration, the cause stood as if the
suit had been brought in the usual manner, and no reference can be had
to the proceedings on the attachment. 13151
Where the general agent of parties carrying on business ina tan-yard, instead
of a journal of hides received for the parties fi'om day today, gave, at
considerable intervals, certificates of the total amount of hides received
fr'om the last preceding settlement, up to the periods when the certificates
bore date ; such certificates are equally binding, as certificates detailing
the separate transactions of each day; and may be read in evidence to
charge the parties, whose agent the person giving tlhcertificates was:
13161
The principle is, that a contract made by co-partners is- several as well as
jnint, and the assumpsit is made ly all and by each. Itis obligatory on
a;,and on each of the partiers. if, therefore, the defendantfails to avail
himself of the variance in abatement, when the form of his plea obliges
him to give the plaintiff a proper action; tf. poli.-y of the law does not
permithim to avail himself of it at the time of' trial. 1317}
The declaration In an action against one partner only, never-gives notice of
the claim being on a partnership transaction. The proceeding isalways,
as if the party sued was the sole contracting party - and if the dechration
were to show a partnership contract, the judginent -against the single
partner-could not be sustained. {317J
Where the suit is brought upon a partnership transaction, against one of the
partners, and the declaration stated a contract with the partner who is
sued, and gave no notice that it was made by him with another person,
evidence of a joint assumpsit may be given to support such a declaration;
and the want of notice, has never been considered as justifyink an exception to such evidence at the trial. {317}
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the county of Washington.
In the Circuit Court for the county of Washington, the defendant in error issued an attachmetit against Robert Barry,
the plaintiff in error; and according to the established practice,
the plaintiff in the attachment,, filed, at the time it was issued,
an account or statement of his claim; by which he alleged that
Robert Barry, the defendant below, was indebted to him in the

SUPREME COURT.
(Barry =. Foyles.)
sum of 93,410 25, for debts due from the firm of James D. tarry
& Co. assumed by him to pay to the plaintiff in the attachment.
This account or statement, was accompanied by an affidavit,
that "it was just and true, is it stands stated." The plaintiff
in error appeared and gave special bail; and a declaration was
then filed, in indebitatus assunrhpit, &c., and the plea of 'the general issue entered.
On "the trial of the cause, the plaintiff offered in evidence to
sustain his case, three paper writings, signed by E. Rice, which
are stated, in exienso, in the opinion of the Court.
In order to prove the defendant chargeable with the amount
delivered by the plaintiff below, Thomas Rice was produced
and sworn as a witness; who testified, as set forth in th opinion of the Court.
The counsel for the defendant below objected to the evidence,
and the objection being overruled, the case. was brought by
writ of error to this Court.
Messrs. Coxe and Worthington, for the plaintiffs in error,
contended.
1st. That the evidence is rot competent and sufficient to
charge the plaintiff in error, upon his alledged ssumpsit.
2nd. That under the declaration of imlebitatus assumpsit,the
evidence is also incompetent and insufficient.
By the statement filed upon oath, the claim of the plaintiff
is averred to be a debt due by James D. Barry, 4-Co., which the
defendant below assumed to pay.
The evidence on the part of the plaintiff below did not show
such a firm as James D. Barryj, 4- Co.; nor did the same prove
an implied, much less an express a88umpJsit by Robert Barry.
The plaintiff below complied with the law of Maryland, by
-stating his cause of action, when the attachment was issued;
and the defendant'appeared and entered a plea thereto. . Subsequently, he filed a declaration of indebitatusassumpait,which was
ii-regular. This, cannot be done, and therefore the evidence applied only to the first declaration; which stated an assumption
of the debt of James D. Barry, & Co., and no proof was offered of such assumption. The evidence does not show any connexion between Rice and the defendant, nor any authority from
Robert Barry, by which his acts or acknowledgments could become binding t)n him; the plaintiffs did not therefore make out
the case spread upon the record by the first declaration.
The papers signed by Ricewere improperly admitted. No. 1.
is given in the name of James D. Barry. The other two refer
to transactions in which the defendant is not named. S. Upon a general declaration in assumsit, the issue is not
maintained by proof of a partnership debt.
The general rule, that the defendant, who is charged sepa-

JANUARY TERM, 189,&I
(Barry vs. Foyles.)

rately for a joint debt, should plead this in abatement, does of.
apply, when the plaintiff has by his pleadings given no notice of
the nature of his demand, until the time of trial, Jordan vs.
Wilkins, 3 Waysh. Decis. 112. In the case of Rice vs. Shout, 5.
Burr, 2611, Lord Mansfield adverts strongly to the' circumstance, that the defendant was the person with whom the b-.
iness was transacted. Also cited Abbottvs. Smith, 2 Black. 947.
S. The agency of Rice ivas a special agency; and his ac.
knowledgments were not evidence. He might have made. entries in the books to charge his principal, but no more. 1 Bp."
Rep. 375. 2 Strk. Evid. 60. Nor does his -testimony prove
the interest or partnership of Robert Barry, in the dealings to
which the papers hard reference. S Stark. Bv'4. p. 4. 1067.
Mr. Jones for the defendant.
The objections to the proceedings, as they apply to the first
and second declarations, have no force. The account filed, when
the writ issued, against Robert Barry alone, states his assumption of the partnership debt; and i? this was objectionable, it
should have been pleaded in abatement.
It was at one time supposed, that in all cases of attachment
a second declaration should be filed; but this was afterwards
considered as not essential; but thd party has at all times a
right to vary his pleadings, and even at 1 the rules" to file a
new declaration. To the pleadings in this case, no exception
was taken, nor was any objectioh made at the trial.
The objecdofh to the evidence, as applicable to the account
filed, ought not to prevail. If Robert Barry was a partner in,
the transactions, to which the papers refer, the law raises an.
assumption. The plaintiff is not tied down to prove an express assunpsit, when proof is given that he was a partner;
and an action will lie against one partner alone, on his express
assuinpsit.
2. The evidence of debts due by J. D. Barry, & Co. was
properly applied to charge Robert Barry, the plaitiff in error.
There must always be a plea in abatement, where. the parties
are not joined. As to joinder of parties; Mr. Foot cited, with
other cases, Minor vs., the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, decided ante pee 46, this Term; and also 5 Burr, 2611.
If the evidence could in any way charge the defendant below,
it was admissible. Partnership may be proved by circumstances; and the Courtdid not decide upon the effect of the testimony, but only that it should go, generally, to the Jury.
This is a case in which the principal is charged with the acts
of the agent, within the sc6pe of his authority; the business of
the concern being intrusted to the management of Rice by the
parties.
Rr
Vo.. L

SUPREME COURT.
Mr. Chief Justice
Court.

(Barryvs. Foyles.)
delivered the opinion of the

MARSHALL

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district of Columbia, sitting in the
county of Washington. The defendant in error had sued out
an attachment against Robert Barry, and had filed an account
against James D. Barry S Co., said to be assumed by Robert
Barry. Robert Barry appeared, gave special bail, and discharged the attachment. Thomas Foyles then filed a declaration of indebitatus assumpsit, for money had and received, and
for oods, &c. delivered; to which Robert Barry pleaded the
general issue, and the parties went to trial.
At th *trial,the plaintiff in the Circuit Court, offered in evidence, three paper writings signed by- Edmond Rice; and also
produced Thomas Rice, a witness, who swore, that at the time
the said paper writings bear date, and for a long time before
and after, E. Rice, whose name is signed to the said writings,
was f9reman and'manager of a tan-yard in Washington; kept
the books, bought and sold leather, and managed the whole
concern for the proprietors; that the said papers are in his
hand writing;" that the said Foyles, for about seven years, (in.
eluding the dates of said writings) being a butcher, was in the
labit of delivering, from-time to time, great numbers of hides,
to the said Rice,. at the said yard, ,and had contracted with the
said Rice to deliver there all the hides of the cattle slaughtered by him. That the said business was carried on in the name
of James.D. Barry, living in Washington,- till a settlement,
which witness understood took place between the said'James
I). Barry and-Robert Barry; after a while it was carried on in
the ntme of Robert Barry. The witness was not present at
the settlement, and does not know its nature or terms. During
the time that the business was carried on in the name of James
D. Barry, Robert Barry (who resided in Baltimore) came
about twice a year to the yard in Washington; where he spent
considerable tine in examining and posting the books, with
the said E. Rice. Upon one of these occasions, he directed a
parcel.of leather, which E. Rice had prepared to send on to him
to Baltimore, to be kept in the yard till he should return to Bal.
timore, or ascertain the price of leather there, and give fur.
ther directions concerning it. During all the time the business
was conducted at Washington in the name of James D. Barry,
the greater part of the leather manufactured in the yard was
sent on to Baltimore to the defendant, and there disposed of by
him.
The following are the paper writings offered in evidence, to
Vhich the testimony of Thomas Rice refers. .

JANUARY TERM, 189S.

.315

(Barry vs. Foyles.)
No. 1. Balance due by James D. Barry to Thomas Foyles on
settlement, say sixteen-hundred and forty dollars seventy-five cents, up to this date, say April 5th 1817.
91640 75.
EDMOND RICE.
No. 2. Amount of hides and skins received of Mr. Thomas
Foyles, from the 1st of April 1817, to this date, say December 27th, 1818.
755 hides at 3 75 per hide,
2831 25
10 Sheep skins at 50 cents eacl,
5 00
7 Calf skins do. at S1 each,
7 0O
9 2843 25
January 15th, 1819.
EDMOND RICE.
-No.3. Amount of hides and skins received of Mr. Thomas
Foyles, from the 2d of February 1819, to 2d of December 1819.
346 hides at S3 75 each,
B1297 50
EDMOND, RICE.

The counsel for the defendant objected to the admission of
these papers. His objection being overruled, an exceptionwas
taken to the opinion.
A verdict was found for the plaintiff below, the judgment on
which has been brought into this Court by writ of error.
In argument, some observations were made on the variance
between the Manner in which the plaintiff in error was charged
in the account filed-in the attachment, and in the declaration
on Which the cause was tried. In the account, he is charged
on his assump, it, for a sum due from James D. Barry & Co.
The declaration charges him as being originally indebted on a.
a transaction with himself. The Court attaches no importance
to this varinnce, because when the attachment was discharged,
by the appearance cf the defendant, and giving bail, and the
plaintiff, in consequence thereof, filed a declaration, to which
the defendant pleaded, the cause stood in Court, as if the suit
had been brought in the usual manner; and no reference can
be had to the proceedings on the attachment.
Considering the case, as it is made oht in the pleadings, the
detendant in the Circuit Court is charged, on his original liability, for a transaction of his own. Edmond Rice, -having
been manager of the whole concern, for the proprietors 6f the
lan-yard, in Washington, with power to buy hides and sell
leather, there can be no doubt of his power to charge them for
ikins and hides, received by him in the course of business.
Fhe papers No. 2 and 3, purport, on their face, to be an account of transactions of this description. The only objection
made to them, is, that instead of the journal of hides delivered

SUPREME COURI.
(Barry vs. 'Foyles.)

on each day, the manager has given, at contiderable intervals,
the total amount of hides received from the last preceding setflement, up to that time. We are not aware of any principle
'which can make such a' general certificate less binding, than
one detailing the separate transactions of each day. The proprietors themselves, or either of them, 'might have made the
same acknowledgment; and we perceive no reason why the
acknowledgment of the manager, so far as respects the form
in which it is made, should not be- of the same obligation as
that of the proprietors.
The paper No. 1, is more questionable. It does not purport
to be given for bides received at the tan-yard, nor does it express the items which constitute'the charge; but it is said to
be the balance due from James D. Barry, (in whose name the
business was conducted,) "on settlement." Edmond Rice, the
person who gave this certificate, had authority to give it on account of the transactions of the tan-yard; and it does not appear that he had authority to give it on any other account.
It is an additional circumstance, of no inconsiderable weight,
that the account closes on the 5th of April, i817, the day on
which the subsequent account, which is avowedly for hides,
commences. These'circum stances, combined, were,'we think,
sufficient to justify the submission of this paper, also, to the
jury.
The next objection to the admission of these papers, is, that
the plaintiff in the Circuit Court, has failed to prove that Robert Barry was one of tie proprietors of the tan-yard, while
the business was conducted in the name of James D. Barry.
The evidence, on this point, was given by Thomas Rice,
and has been already fully stated. We think the testimony of
a partnership was very strong. It could not, with propriety,
have been withheld from the jury.
The question on which the plaintiff in error most relies, re
mains to be considered.
This suit is brought on a partnership -transaction, 2igainst
one of the partners. The declaration states a contract withthe partner who is -sued, and gives no notice that it was made
by him with another. Will evidence of a joint asaumpsit support such a declaration ?
Although it has been held from the 36 H. 6. Ch. S8, that ti
suit-against one of several joint obligors, might be sustained, unless the matter was pleaded in abatement; yet with respect to
joint contracts, either in writing, or by parol, a different rule
was formerlladopted; upon the ground of a supposed variance berwegn the contract laid, and that which.was proved.
This distinction was overruled by Lord Mansfield, in the case
of Rice vs. Shute, 5 Burn, -0611. The safhe point was after-

JANUARY TERM,. 1828.

3,17

(Barry vs. Foyles.)

vards adjudged, in Abbott vs. Smith, S W Black. 695; and
has *been ever since invariably maintained, The principle is,
that a contract, made'by copartners, is several, as well as
joint, and the as8um!psit is made by all, and by each. It is obligatory on all, and on each of the partners. If, therefore, the
defendant fails to avail himself of the variance in abatement,
when theform of his plea obliges him to give the plaintiff a
proper action, the policy of the law does not permit him to
avail himself of it, at the trial.
The course of decisions, since the case of Rice vs. Shute,
has been so uniform, that the principle would have been considered as too well settled for controversy; had it not lately
been questioned by a Judge, from whose opinions we ought not
lightly to depart.
That Judge supposed, that if the defendant had no notice
in the previous stage of the proceedings, which might inform
him of the nature of the action, he was guilty of no negligence
in failing to plead in abatement, and ought not to be deprived
of his defence at the trial.
But the declaration never gives this notice, where, the suit is
brought against one, only, of the partners. He is always proceeded against, as if he were the sole contracting party; and
if the declaration were to show a partnership coitract, the
judgment against the single partner could not be sustained.
Tle cases cited by Mr. Sergeant Williams, in note 4, on the
case of Caleb vs. Vaughan, 1 Saund. 191, n. 4, shows conclusively, that the want of notice has never been considered, since
Rice and Shute, as justifying this exception to the evidence
at the trial
We think there is no error, and the judgment is affirmed.

