SUPREME COURT.

.AMES GIEENI.E'F. APPELLANT. vs. Ncuo.As L. QcF.Fx, AN
ELIEANOR IllS WIJFE. lEIItS, AND RICIIARD WAT.I.ACK, ADMINISTRATOIR, OF WASHINGTON ]OYD, DECE;ASED, APPFLI.EES.

Where, by the terms of a deed, conveying real estate in trust, to be sold for
the benefit of the creditor of the grantor, the trustee is directed to sell
the property conveyed, by public aucion-thetrustee was hound to conform W this mode of sale. This was the test of value, which the grantor
thought proper to require, and it was not competent to the trustee to
establish any other; although, by doing so, lie might, in reality, promote
the interests of those for whom he acted. 11451
When property conveyed in trust, to be sold at public auction, had been
sold by private contract, and the property was afterwards offered for
sale, in the manner prescribed by the deed of trust, for the purpose of
making a title to the private purchaser; at which time, more was bid for
the same, than the amount for which it had been privately contracted to
be sold; the purchaser, by private coniract, to whom possession was delivered, at the price agreed on, cannot allege that the sale was void;
since, whatever may be the liability of the eestwui que trust, to those interest.
ed in the proceeds of the sale, for the amount offered at the auction lit is
not an objection, on the part of the purchaser, to release him from his
contract. 1146}
Where the vendee of real estate, had purchased it, subject to the dower of
the widow-of which dower, he might have been informed, if he had
used proper diligence, a Cburt of Equity will not interfere, to release the
vendee; but will leave him to such legal remedy, as he may be entitled
to, in case his title should, at any future time, be disturbed. 114r}
'Where a bill had been filed against a trustee, of real estate, and, after his
death, administration had been granted to A; who, on the petition of creditors, interested in the trust, was also appointed by the Court, the substituted trustee; and the Court went on to decree, that A, aa trustee,
should execute certain conveyances ; the decree was held to be'invalid;
the course of proceeding, being rather to make the decree against A, in
the character of administrator, because he claimed, as administrator, under a title derived from the original trustee, and was the person desig.
hated by law, to represent him; or that a supplemental bill, in the nature of
a bill of revivor, should have been filed against the substituted trustee ; in
which all the proceedings should have been stated, and he required to
answer the charges contained in the original and supplemental bill.
1148}
A decree of a Court of Chancery, is erroneous, which, after ordering certain acts to be done, to enable a party to execute certain duties assigned
to him, dismisses the bill, as it puts the cause out of Court, and renders
the decree ineffectual: and it is no answer to this objection, that it ap.
pears by the record, in the case, that the acts ordered to be done, have
been performed; since the error is in the decree itself, and not in its
execution. 1148}
A bill may be disnussed, where the plaintiff, when called upon to make pro.
per parties, refuses, or is guilty of unreasonable delay, in doing so; but.
this must be d6ne, on demurrer, plea, or answer, pointing out the per.
son or persons, whom, the defendant insists, ought to be made parties

1149

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

199

(Greenleaf vs. Queen et al.)

When a debtor had conveyed to a trustee, real estate, to be sold for the be.

nefit of creditors, and the trustee dying betbre the conveyance of tile

property to a purchaser, another trustee was appointed by the Court, upon
the application of the creditors, to execute the trust; in a proceeding,
relative to the execution of the trust, and the conveyance of the estate,
it is necessary that the heirs at lav, of the first trustee, shall be parties to
the same.; as the legal title to the estate did not pass to the substituted
trustee, by the appointment, but remained in the legal heirs; {149}
APPEAL from, the Circuit Court of the county of Washington; the appellant having been complainant, in a bill in
equity, filed S1st December 1819, in the Court below, against
Washington Boyd, trustee of Charles Minifie.
The objects of the bill, were to make void a contract made
by the appellant, for the purchase of certain lots of ground, in
the city of Washington, being the estate held in trust, for the
creditors of Charles Minifie-that certain collateral securities.
delivered by the appellant, with his note for 3,813 dollars, being for the purchase money of the lots of the trustee, should
be returned; and that the note should be cancelled and surrendered-thatva release should be executed, of tbe judgment at
law obtained by the trustee, on the note, and for a perpetual
injunction bnd general-relief, Scc.
Upon filing this bill, an injunction was granted, until further
order of the Court; and, after various proceedings, the following decree was made:Greenleaf
VS. I
'
Washington.Boyd, and others1

In Chancery, April Term,
184.

" It is ordered by the Court, in this cause, that the trustee
appointed by the order of January 21st 1823, make and execute a good and sufficient deed to James Greenleaf, for the
property sold to him by the former trustee, Washington Boyd,
according to the terms of that sale; to be approved by one of
the judges of this Court, and filed with the clerk, to be delivered to the said Greenleaf, upon the payment of the purchase
money; and that he also obtain and file with the clerk, a sufficient deed of release, from Zachariah Walker, to be approved of by one of the judges of this Court, to the said James
Greenleaf, releasing all title and claim to any and every part
of the lots and property of the said Charles Minifie, sold by
Washington Boyd, as trustee, or mentioned in the aforesaid
deed of the trustee, Richard Wallack, to .James Greenleaf;
and that, upon the said deed, and the said deeds of release being executed, signed, approved, and filed, as aforLsaid, that
then the injunction be dissolved, and the trustee authorized to
proceed in levying and collecting the amount of the judgment,

SUPREME COURT.
(Greenleaf s. Queen et al.)
for the purchase money, as mentioned in said bill.' And the
original bill, and bills of revivor, having been set down for
hearing, upon the bills, answers, and exhibits, and all the proceedings in the cause-it is, by the Court, on this 15th of December 1824, decreed and ordered, that the said bill be dismissed with costs.
"And it is hereby further ordered and decreed, that, before
proceeding in collecting said purchase money, a good, and sufficient bond shall be executed, in the penalty of 500 dollars, by
any one or more of the creditors, with security, to be approved of by one of the Judges of this Court, conditioned to
indemnify the said Greenleaf, his heirs and dssigns, from all
claim and demand of Francis Jameson, his heirs and -assigns, to any part of the lots or property mentioned in the
deed of the said Wallack, to said Greenleaf; which may have
been purchased by the said Jameson, at the sale of the said
Boyd, and filed with the clerk of the said Court."
By order, WILLIAM BitEvXT, Clerk.
15th December 1824.
From this decree, the complainant appealed.
The opinion of the Court, delivered by Mr. Justice Washington, fully states all the matter of the case.
The case was argued by Mr. Jones, for the appellant; and
by Mr. Key. for the appellees.
Mr. Jones, for the appellant.1. The title of Charles Minifie, was never affected by the.
sale of Boyd to Mr. Greenleaf. The authority to sell, was a
special one, and the terms not having been complied with-as
the sale was private, and not public. Minifie, or his heirs, or
his creditors, may proceed against the trustee-no time precluding the same. The case of Daniels vs. Adams. ,/dmbler,
191. f Bridg. Index, 41.
A private sale was set aside, although more was obtained
by the sale, than by a public sale; it being against the authority of the'trustee. The Court cannot vary the terms of a trust.
I dnstrdh. 80. 4 Brown's Chancery Cases, 479.
2. Mr. Grbenleaf had no .notice of these objections to the
title, until a few days before the filing of the bill; and it was
then too late for this proceeding. 16 Vez. 272.
The title could not be completed, without the consent of
Minifie and his wife; and no steps were taken, to obtain thi*snor were the'measures adopted, in reference to the titles acquired by Jameson, Prout, and Walker, who purchased some of the
lots at the public sale, effective. The purchaser would still be
obliged to go into chancery, to complete his title to some of
these lots so purchased. Nor has a title.- been made to him
by the heir of Boyd--if Mr: Wallack, the sfibstituted trustee,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

141

(Greenleaf vs. Queen et aL)
could convey her title, it rould not be by virtue of the decree
stated in the case, as Mr. Greenleaf was not a party to the
proceeding.
The Court will not permit an executory contract, for land,
to be carried into specific execution, until the seller can give
a complete title. 4 Vez. 97. 2 1ez. jr. 100. 2 Coxe, 294. 5 "ez.
147. 16 Ibid. 272.
As to taking possession of property, being an acceptance of
title, "S'ugden on Vendors, 9.
The sale made to Greenleaf, was a fraud on the public; and
no title to the purchase money could be derived under it. A
confirmation of the title held by Mr. Greenleaf, by the legal
heliof Boyd, and by the creditors of Minifie, was necessary;
and it was not the duty of the purchaser, to seek out the heir.
He had.- alled upon Boyd, who had the trust, to do what was
proper.
Tl1te was no ground to dismiss the bill, for want of proper "parties-this should have been pleaded; this is never
done, fnless in a case where no decree can be made, without
affecting those who are not before the CourL
Mr. Key, for the appellees.This is a case, where a purchase was made, when property
was high, which has since fallen; and the purchaser, therefore, desires to relieve himself from the bargain. The terms
of the trust were complied with, by the trustee-a pulllic sale
was made of the property-Greenleaf took possession, knowing all the facts; and, not until after judgment against him,
for the purchase money, did he ask for a specific performance, and an injunction as to notice. Cited, 2 John. (Jhanc.
Cases, 197.
-The purchaser has not done what he ought to have dbne, to
obtain a title. He should have filed his bill against all the persons interested-Minifie and the creditors; but the bill was
against Boyd alone; and this authoried .the conclusion, tlial
the aid of Boyd only was wanting.
The case is one of a bona fide and regular sale, by the trus.
tee-possession taken by the pjurchaser-:-execution of. his contract, -ith full knowledge of all thm-circumstances, by the delivery of his promissory note, for the purchase money; and,
afterwards, by proceedings without proper parties, and altogether irregular, an attempt by the purchaser to, defeat the
c laims of the creditors of the cestuy que trust.
Mr..'Justice WAsmxGToN delivered, the opinion of the
Cop rt.This cause comes from the Circuit Court of the District of
Columbia, 'for the county of Washington. The appellant filed

SUPREME COURT.
(Greenleaf vs. Queen et aL.)
his bill in that Court, against Wahington Boyd; setting forth.
that on the 19tC of March 1817, the said Boyd, as trustee undei
a deed of' Chailes Minifie to him, entered into a contract u ith
the plaiitiff; for the sale of sundry lots in the city of Vashiigton, at the price of 8,,500, payable in 6, 12 and 18 months;
for which, including the interest, and amounting in the whole
to 3,815 dllars, he then gave his note to Boyd, who acknowledged the receipt thereof by an istrument under his hand;
and thereby a.greed, that on the payment of the note, he would
convey to tie plaintiff the said lots, which had been previously
sold at public auction, two of then to Elliot, as agent for the
plaintiff, and the others to Francis Jameson, LWilliam Prout,
and Z; Walker. That, although the title to these lots which
had been sold to Jameson, Prout, and Walker, had not been
released from their claims, the defendant, Boyd, had nevertheless recovered a judgment agaiast the plaintiff for the amount
of his note before mentioned, upon which he threatened co sue
out an execution. The prayer of this bill was for an injunction,
and a conveyance of the lots with a clear title.
The plaintiff afterwards filed an amended bill setting forth
the original negotiations between the plaintiff and Boyd, in
March 1816, for the purchase of the above lots, which resulted
in a contract, by which the plaintiff was to be considered as the
purchaser of them, at the price of 3,500 dollars, payable with
interest, in 6, 12 and 18 months. That the defendant had
nevertheless thought proper to expose the said lots to sale at
public auction, some time in April 1816, and had catsed Elliot,
the plaintifl's agent, to be set down as the ptt'chaser of two of
the lots only, at the price of 3,500 dollars, althou gh neither Elliot
nor the plaintiff was present; and that the remaining seven lots
were struck off, three of them to Jameson at 159 dollars, one
to Prout at 45 dollars 15 cents, and- the remaining three to
Walker, at 264 dollars 90 cents, making in the whole, the sum
of 4,019 dollars 5 cents.
That matters remained in this situation until the 19th of
Mlarch 1817, when the written contract mentioned in the original bill was entered into.
The bill then sets forth the judgment obtained by Boyd
against the plaintiff, upon his note for the purchase money of
the lots, and the deposit by the latter with the former of certain
securities as collateral security for the debt, in consideration of
a suspension of the execution until some time in December 1819,
It farther charges, that the plaintiff was ignorant of the title and
authority of th, defendant to dispose of the above property, until
within a few days preceding the filing of this amended bill;
when, upon examining the land records of the county, he found
the deed of trust from Charles Minific and oue James Ei elland

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

143

(Greenleaf w. Quieei et al.)
Z. Farrell, to the said Boyd, conveying the above lots to him
in trust, to dispose of the same at public sad, on 6, 12 and 18
months credit, and to apply the-proceeds to the payment of the
d&bts of the said Minifie, and to hold what might remain after
such payments, subject to the decree of the Circuit-Court of the
said district and county, in the suit brought by the wife of said
Minifie for alimony; and the balance, if any to be paid over to
said Minifie. The hill then concludes, by charging that the
contract made by the plaintiff with the defendant, for the purchase of the said lots, is void, because it was made in contravention of an injunction obtained by Mrs. Minifie, and becausC the
purchase, by the plaintiff, was made at private, and not at public
sale; that the title is likewise defective for the same reasons, and
because the property is subject to the claim of Mrs. Minifie for
alimony and fotr dower, and-ii not released from.the claims of
Prout, Jameson, and Walker, to the seven lots sold to them. The
prayer of this bill is, that the contract may be deciared void;
that the judgment upon the plaintiff's note may be perpetually
njoined; and that the pledged securities may be restored-to
the plaintiff.
The injunction asked for, was granted, till further. order.
A petition was fled in the same Court, by William -Prout and
others, creditors of Charles Minifie, setting forth the death of
Washington Boyd, leaving Eleanor, the wife of Nicolas L.
Queen, his heir at law; and praying that another trustee might
be appointed to complete .the execution of the trusts of the
deed from Minifle to Boyd. To this'petition, Queen and his
wife appeared and filed an answer, admitting the truth of the"
allegations in the petition, that the said Eleanor is the heir atlqw of Boyd; and submitting to such decree aithe Court might
think proper to make.
That cause being set for.hearing on the petition'and answer,
the Court, 'onthe 21st January-1823, made a decree by *hich
Richard -Wallack was appointed trustee in the place of Washington Boyd, deceased, upon his giving bond and security; with
authority to complete the trusts left unexecuted by'Boyd, according to the provisions of the trust deedi and to recover and"
collect the purchase money 'for: such of the trust property as
had been sold by Boyd; and-upon the payment tlere6f, to coirvey said property-by a good and- sufficient deed, in fet; to the purchasers thereof, and to bring th6 said proceeds of sale into
the Conrt, to be distributed -as the said Court. might direct,
arccording to the deed. of trust. A bond was accordingly executed by Wallack, approved by one of.the Judges of the Court,
and filed amongst the proceedings in that cause; a transcript of
which proceedings was made'an exhibit- in this .ause; on the
same day the above decree was passed. the Court decreed, in

144

SUPREME COURT.

(Gevref . Quee et $3.)
this. cause, that the plaintiff should, on or before a ccrtain day,
.proceedin the samej by making the heirs of Washington Boyd
diefendantsi as also such other persons as might be necessary to
ynable the Court to dectee therein; otherwise that the bill of
the plaintiff should be dismissed.
.In May .1824, the plaintiff fliled a bill of revivor against N.
L. Queen and Eleanor his wife, heir at law of Washington Boyd,
a4d Richard Wallack, administrator of the saj4 Boyd; to which
bill' .Queen and wife appeared, ,and. by consent of parties,
the'answer filed by, them to the petition of -rout and others,
was received as-an.answer to the bill of revivor,, and the originai suit was agieed to "stand revived.
. The cause was then set for hearing ofn the bills', answer and
exhibits,, and all the proceedings in this cause, and also in the
petition of Prout and others beforerinentioned; whereupon the
Court decreed that RichardWallack, the trustee appointed by
the order of the 21st of January 182 3 should execute a good
and sufficient deed to the plaintiff, for the property sold to him
byBoyd, thi former trustee, according-to the terms of that
sale, to be approved by one of the Judges of the Court; to be
filed 'with the clerk; and to. be delivered -to the plaintiff, upon
the p'ayment of the purchasemoney; that he should also obtain
and file -with the clerk, a sufficient deed of release by Zachariah
Walker, to be approved as aforesaid, to the plaintiff, rieleasing
all title and -claim to any and every part of the property of
Charles 'Minifie, sold by Boyd as his trustee; and that upon.
the said deeds being executed, approved, and filed, as aforesaid,
the itunction grafited in-this cause should be dissolved, and
the trustee be authorized to proceed to levy and collect the
amouut of the-jhdgment for the purchase money, as mentioned
in'the bjNl. The decree then "proceedsto dismiss the bill, with
costs; and that before pr6ceeding to collect the said purchase
money, a good and sufficient bond should be executed, in the
penalty of 500 dollars, by any one or more of the creditors, with
Security, to be approved by one of the Judges of the Court,
with condition to indemnify the plaintiff, his heirs and assigns,
from all claim aid demand of,_Fraucis Jameson, his heirs and
assigns, to any part of the lots or property, mentioned in the
deed of the sa!Wallack to Greenleaf; which might have been
purchased -by the -said Jameson, at the sale. of Washing'ton
Boyd; and filed with the clerk of the Court. - From this decree,
the plaintiff appealed to this Court. .' A deed by Richard Walfack io James- Preenlea', bearing date the 2d of August 182,5,
a bond of indemnity executed by Jonathan and William Prout,
and a deed.ofrelease by Z, Walker, as directed by the aforesgid decree, dated~the Sd nl rth of February 1825, were executed, approved, and fle4 with the clerk ot the Court, in con-

JANUARI TERM, 1828.

145

(Greenleafvs. Queen'et al.)

formity with the decree, and form parts-of the record brought
tip by this appeal.
The first objection made by the appellant's couisel to the decree of the Court below, is, thatthe contract between the appellant and Washington Boyd, for the sale of the lots mentioned in the bill, was void, for' want of authority in the latter,
to dispose of the property in any other mode, than- at public
auction. Such, it must be acknowledged, is ihe mode prescribed by the deed of trust; nor can it be questioned, but that the
trustee was bound to conform to this, as well as to the tther requisitions of the deed, under which he professed to act. This
was the test of'value, which the grantor thoaght proper to require; and it was not competent to the trustee to establish any
other, although by doing so, he might, in reality, promote the
interest of those for whom he acted.
But what are the facts in the present case?
The nine lots, which formed the subjectof the correspondence
between the appellant and the trustee, in 'Marca 1816, and of
the written contract, on the 19th of March 1817; were actually
advertised, as directed by the deed of trust; were set up for
sale, as the amended bill alleges, at public auction, in April 1816,
and were sold -for the sum of 4019 dollars 5 cents. Two of
them were set down to S. Elliot, the agent of the appellant,
at the price of $500. dollars; and the other seven were struck
off to Jameson, Prout, and Walker, for the remaining sum of
519 dollars 5 cents.
It is not even charged in the, bill, much less is there any
proof in the cause, to warrant a suspicion that the sale was
not fairly conducted; or that any person bid for the two lots
set down to Elliot, more than the sum at which they were
charged to him.
In making the sale in that mode, no-deception was practised
upon the appellant; since he was informed, by Elliot's letter to
him, of the 16th of March. 1816, fhat Mr.'Boyd Lad further
postponed the sale of Minifie's property, and would consider
him, Greenleaf, as the purchaser for 3500 dollars. The writer
adds "I have stipulated, that the whole property shall B'e'
included. It is necessary to go through the forms prescribed
by the decree;" meaning, no doubt, if the letter, be truly.
transcribed into the record, the trust deed. But, on the 19th
of March 1817, when the contract was finally reduced to writing, the appellant wasdistinctly apprized, that the whole of the
lots had been sold at public sale, at six, twelve, and eighteen
months; and he was then satisfied to give his note tor the stipulated sum agreed to be paid for the nine lots, upon the
engagement of Boyd, to make a deed for the same to Samuel
Elliot. Upon what plausible ground, then, can the appellant
VTr.. 1.
T

SUPREME COURL
(Greenleaf vs. Queen et al.)
now insist, that the lots were not sold at public auction, and,
on that ground, to seek to be relieved against the payment of
his note, given for the purchase money, thus agreed' to be paid,
for the property? 'The argument urged by his counsel, that
the contract is void, because the lots were sold to the appellant for a less surf than that at which they were struck off to
the purchasers, at the public sale, cannot, for a moment, be
mtn ntained; since, whatever miight be the liability of the trustee to the cestuy que tru t to pay the difference between those
-sums, it is surely not an objection, in the mouth of the appellant, sufficient to release him from his contract.
But, were it to be admitted, that Boyd acted in derogation
Qf his tust, in selling the property to the appellant for a less
sum than he actually. sold it for itpublic auction, and that on
that account, the title of the appellant might be impeached;
ihay not the objection be removed by the agreement of the
par ties, beneficially interested in the property under the deed
of trust, to confirm the sale; or, by their acts, tending to produce the same result? Of this we apprehend there cannot exist a doubt. Now, who, are the parties for whose benefit this
trust was created? They are the creditors of Charles Minifie,
in the first instance; and after they are satisfied, Mrs. Minific,
to the extent of the sum which might be decreed to her for
alimony; and then Charles Minifie, as to any balance which
might remain. But it appears from the exhibits filed in the
cause, that the amount of the debt due by Minifie5 and for
which judgments were obtained against him, exceeded considerhbly the sum at which these lots sold at public auction, independent of the interest due upon those debts, and the.costs
of the different quits in which the judgments were entered.
The only persona, then, who are beneficially interested in the
property conveyed by the deed of trust, are the creditors of
Charles Minifie, who have united in a suit, against the heir at
law of Boyd, for the purpose of having a new trustee appointed tb carry into execution the sale made of the properly'b r
the.former trustee, under the deed of trust; and they arc, as,
the bill charges, the active parties, in enforcing the payment of
the purchase money; after these solemn acts, done in affirmance
of the sale made to the plaintiff, the creditors wotild never, be
permittedi by a, Court of Equity, to. impeach it; nor can the.
alleged breach of trust be urged by the appellant, as a reason
for annulling the contract, or excusing hi from the payment
df the purchase money.
The -next objection made by the appellant's counsel to the
decree of the Court below, is, that the title of the property,
which it directs to be conveyed to the appellant, is defective"
being encumbered with tli,laim of Franuis Janeson to three

-JANUARY TERM, 1828.

147

(Greenleaf ts. Queen et al.)
,>f the lots, and with the right of dower of Mrs. Minifie in the
whole of the property.
It is very manifest, that the title of Jameson, if any he has,
is merely nominal. The sale to' him was made in 1816, upon
six, twelve, and eighteen months credit; and, by the terms of
the sale, he was required to give his note for the purchase money, with an approved endQrser, negotiable at one of the banks
in this district. The: bill does not charge, nor is it even alleged at the bar, that a note was given by Jameson for the purchase money, bid for these lots; not one cent of it has been
paid by him, or even demanded; or that, from the year 1816,
when the sale *as made, to the present moment, a claim to the
property has been asserted, or intimated, by this person. -But,
it does appear, by the testimoiy of a witness examined ifithe
cause, that the plaintiff, Greenleaf, has been in possession of
the whole of the property, from the time that he purchased it;
and that Jameson had, upon the application of Boyd to relinquish his claim to the property, consented to do so.
Upon this state of facts, this Court can feel no hesitation in
saying, that Jameson had not such an equitable title to the lots
purchased by him, as a Court of Equity, would enforce against
the trustee of Minifie, or against the plaintiff. Whether that
Court would require a title like this to be released, in a case
where a trustee was a party plaintiff, asking for a specific exe
cution of the contract, need not be decided in this case. But
we are clearly of opinion, that the want of such a release cannot be urged by the vendee, as a cause for rescinding the contract.
The.objecfion founded on the right of dower of Mrs. Minifie, is quite as untenable as the one that has just been disposed of. The plaintiff, when he made the purchase of this
property, was apprized'that he was dealing with a trusteeand knew, or might have known, from the land records of the
county in which the property was situated, whether Mrs. Minifie'was a party to the deed'of trust; and had, or had not, relinquished her right of dower. He required of the trustee no
stipulation 'in relation to this right-and it may therefore be
fairly presumed, that the value of it was taken into considera:
tion, in fixing the amount of the purchase money to be paid
for the property. In such a case, as well as in that which we
have just disposed of, a Court of Equity will not interpose to
relieve the vendee, but will leave him to such legal remedyas
he may be entitled to, in case his title should, at any future.
time, be disturbed by these claims.
The Court is, upon the whole, of opinion, that fhe objections to the decree,-which have been noticed, are insufficient

to warrant a reversal of it.

It is, howeveri exposed to other

148

SUPREME COURT.

(Greenleaf w. Queen, et al.]
objections, which must produce this result, and which now remain to be examined.
The first is, that Richard Wallack, the substituted trustee,
who is required by the decree to perform a number of acts,
in order to entitle him to levy and to collect the amount of
the judgments for the purchase money, and upon the performance of which the injunction is dissolved, was no party to the
controversy in the Court below. The suit, it is true, was revived against him in his character of administrator of Washington Boyd, and also against the heir at law of Boyd; to
which mode of proceeding no objection could be taken, if the
decree had been against him in his character of administrator, because, in that character, he claimed under a title derived from the party, by whose death the abatement of the suit
was caused; and was the person designated by law to represent him,. in relation to his personal estates.
But this was not the case in respect to Richard Wallack,
as.the substituted trustee and successor of Boyd. The power,
Yith which the latter was clothed, b -came vested in Wallack,
w
not by operation of law, but by the appointment of the Court,
subsequent to the institution of the suit.. The original suit,
which abated by the death of Boyd, becane also defective by
the tarmination of his powers, and the appointment of a new
trustee, and could only be prosecuted against him by way of
d supplemental bill, in nature of a bill of revivor; in which it
would be necessary to state, not only the original bill and the
,proceedings thereon, and the death of the former trustee; but
the appointment of Wallack as his successor, and his acceptance of the trust; and to require him to appear and answer
the charges contained-in the supplemental and original bills.
For any thing appearinguplun the face of this record, Wallack
is an entire stranger to the trust with which the deciree connects himn, and without any power, whatever, to make a valid
conveyance. For there being 'no supplemental bill, or allegation in any bill that Wallack had been appointed to complete the trust which Boyd had left unexecuted, and to collect
the purchase money for the property which that trustee had
sold, and that he had accepted such appointment; these facts
cannot be considered as having been established by the proceedings and decree in the suit of the creditors of Minifie,
against the heir at law of Boyd. See MItf. 33. 63. 70.
The next objection to the decree is, that after decreeifig Wallack to perform a number of acts to entitle him to levy and
collect the amount of the judgment against the, appellant, as
before mentioned, it proceeds to dismIss the bill with costs;
thereby putting the cause out of Court, and rendering th.
other parts of the decree ineffectual. Should Wallack, for ex-

JANUARY -TtRM. 1828.

149

(Greenleafvs. Queen et m.)
ample, refuse to execute a conveyance of the property.to the,
plaintiff in the Court below, pursuant to the 'decree, tht nonexistence of the suit on Which that decree was 'made, ,woxld
prevent any process of contempt froi& issuing agamisthim,
r .the purpose of compelling him to execute, the decree. It
is no answer to this objection, that-it appears 'by-the record in
this case, that Wallack ha'in"fact exeduted the decree on,his
part; since the error complained of is in the decree itself, and.
not in its execution.
It was insisted by the counsel for the appellees, in anticipation of the above objection, that the Court below would have
been warranted in dismissing the bill absolutely,.without requiring'any thing to be performed by the new trustee, in copsequence of the omission of the plaintiff iii that suit to mae
proper parties.
That a bill may be dismissed, Where the plaintiff, when called
upon to make proper parties,-tefuses,.or is guiIty of unreasonabld
delay in doing so, need not be questioned-but to do so without
a demurrer, plea, or answer, pointing out the person 'or. persons who the defendants- insist ought to be made parties,
is unprecedented, and would most unquestionably be erroneous, although the decree should assign this as the ground of
dismission; which is not done in the.present case.
The last objection to the decree, which it is thought newessary to notice, is, that the heir at law of Washington Bovd,
deceased, is not' required to release her'title-'to the property in controversy to the appellant;, a majokity-'of this .piirt
being of opinion, that the legal estate in that property did noit
pass to Richard- Wallack, under thi decree-of the , st 6fJanuary 180S, before referred to, but is yet outstanding in tlie
heir at law of Boyd
The decree of the Court below must, for these errors, be
reversed, and the cause is to be remanded to that' Cout i'r
further proceedings to te had:thereon, in conformity with the'
principles before stated..
.Decree.-Thiscause came on,-*ei o, consideration whereof,
It is the opinion of this Court" that there is error in the said
decree, in requiring any actto be perfoi-Med by Richard' Wallack, before he was'made a party to the said suit, by regular prbceedings against himi according to the course and practice of
a Court of Chancery, and had eitler answered the bill raking him such a party, or the same had been taken for confessed, against him; and that the.said'tecreeois also errfeous4 ' in.
dismissing the bill of the plaintiffin the Court-below; ana also, in
not decreeing the said Nicholas L. Queen, and Eleanor Quqen
his wife, the defendants in, the said suit, to release tQ the ap-

150

SUPREME COURT.

(Greenleaf w. Queen et al.)
pellant, James Greenleaf, all their right and title to the property directed by the said decree to be conveyed to him, by the
said Richard Wallack; for which errors, it is now by this
Court decreed and ordered, that the said decree be reversed
and annulled, and that the cause be remanded to the Court below, to be there proceeded in, according to law, and in conformity with the principles stated in this decree.

