SUPREME COURT.

HuMPHREY FULLERTON, JOHN CARLISLE, AND JOHN 'WADDLE1
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, 8. THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS AND
COdPANY OF THE BANK OF THE UxITzD STATES, DEFENDANTS xx ERROR.
The state of Ohio, not having been admitted into the Union until 1802, the
Act of Congress passed May 8th 1792, which is expressly confined in it
operations to the day of its passage, in adopting the practice of the state
Courts into the Courts of the United States, could have no operation in
that state; but the District Court of-the United States, established in that
state in 1803, was vested with all the powers and jbrisdiction of the District Court of Kentucky, whi6h exercised fill
Circuit Court jurisdiction,
-with power to create a practice for its own government. The District
Court of Ohio did not create a system for itself,but finding'one establish.
ed in the state, in the true spirit of the policy pursued by the United
States, froceeded to administer justice according to the practice of the
state Courts, and by a single rule adopted the state system of practice.
When in 1807, the seventh Circuit was established, the judge assigned to
that Circuit, found the practice of the state adopted, in fact, into the Circuit Court of the United States, and the same has since, so far as it was
found practicable and convenient, by a uniform understanding, been pursued without any positive rule upon the subject. {6121
The Act of 18th February, 1820, relative to proceedings against parties to
promissory notes, was a very wise.and benevolent law, and its salutary effects 'produced its immediate adoption into the practice of the Courts of
the United States, and the suits have in many instances been prosecuted
under it. f6131
It will not be contended, that the practice of a Court can only be sustained
by written rules, nor that a party pursuing a form or mode of proceeding,
sanctioned by the most solemn Acts of the Court through the course of
years, is to be surprised and turned out of Court, upon a ground which has
no bearing upon the merits. Written rules are unquestionably to be preferred, because oftheir certainty ; but there can be no want of certainty,
where long acquiescence has established it to be the law of the Court, that
thc svt.i practice shall be their practice, as far as they have the means of
carrying it into effect, or until deviated from by positive rules of their own
making.. {613}
The course of prudence and duty in judicial proceedings in the United
States, when cases of difficult distribution as to power and right present
themselves, is to yield rather than encroach. The dutyis reciprocal, and
will no doubt be met in the spirit of moderation and comity. In the con-.
flicts of power and opinion, inseparable from our very peculiar relations,
cases may occur in which the maintenance of principles, and the adminis.
tration of just.ce, according to its innate and inseparable attributes, may
require a different course; and when such cases do occur, our Courts
must do their duty; but until then, it is administering justice in the spirit of the Constitution, to conform as nearly'as possible, to the administration ofjustice in the Courts ofthe several states. {6141
Although the"Act of the legislature of Ohio regulating the mode of proceeding in actions on promissory notes, was passed after the fhaking of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

605

(Fullerton et al. ts. The Bank of the Unitdd States.)
the note upon which this action was brought, yet the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Ohio, having incorporated the action under that statute, with all its incidents, into its course of practice, and
having full power by law to adopt it, there does not appear any legal objection to itk doing so, id the prosecution of 'the system under which it
has always acted. 1615}
Modern decisions go to establish, that if a note be at the place where it is
payable, on the day it falls due, the onus of proving payment falls upon
the parties who are liable to pay it; and the ihstructions of the Circuit
Court, In this case, were more favourable to the parties to the note, where
the Court said, upon the safficiency of the demand, that on an article or a
note made payable at a particular bank, it is sufficient to show that the
note. had been discounted,and become the property of the bank, andthat
it wts in the bank, and not paid when at maturity. {6161
THIS was a writ of error brought to reverse a judgment rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States,, f6r the District
of Ohio, in favour of the Bank of the United States, the present
defendants in error. The declaration contains a common count
for money lent and advanced. The plea is non assumrpserunt.
There is another plea of non assumpsit,' filed by H. Fullerton
alone, and .under it, a notice, that he will off-set a large sum
of money, 93957 333, due by the bank to the said Fullerton,
being the avails of a certain note (the note on which the action
wai brought) which was discounted by the said Fullerton at
the office of discount and deposit in Cincinnati, and the proceeds of which he had never checked out. There is another
notice ofoff-set by all the defendants-that the plaintiffs are indebted to the defendant Fullerton, in a large sum of money,
85000-being the avails of a certain promissory note (the note
on which plaintiff's action is founded) which has never been
paid by the bank to Fullerton, or received by him, but retained
by the plaintiff; and Fullertoli applies the same, byway of
discharge and sec-off to the said note iaade to laintiffs. The
cause was tried by a jury; and, on the trial, the plaintiff exhibited in evidence, a certain note, a copy of which follows
,4000.
Cincinnali,-Februaj 1, 1820.
Sixty days after date, I promise to pay John Carlisle, or
order, at the office of discount and deposit of the Bank of the
United States at Cincinnati, four thousand dollars, for value
received.
(Signed)
IsAc CooK.
Endorsed-John Carlisle, John Mtaddle, Uumphreyj Fullerton.
Isaac Cook, the drawer of the note, died pending the suit,
and before the trial. To the introduction of this. note in evidence the defendants objected, as evidence of-a several contract
of the, drawers and each one of the endorsers, and not -of any

606

SUPREME COURT.
(Fullerton et al. w. The Bank of the United States.)

-joint undertaking or liabilityof the defendants. This objection
was overruled by the Court, and the note permitted to be read
in evidence, ufider the eighth section of the Act of the General
Assembly of Ohio, entitled, "An Act to regulate judicial proceedings, where -banks and bankers are parties, and prohibit
the issuing bank bills of a certain description," passed lNth
February, '1820; to whichldecision of the Court the defendants
excepted.

The eightfi section of the Act provides; 'That when any
sum of money due and owing to any bank or banker shall be
-ecured by endorsements on the bill, note; or obligation for the,
same, it shall be lawful for silch bank or banker to bring fj6int
action against all the drawers or endorsers, in w6hich action
the plaintiff. or plaintiffs inay declare against the 'defendants
jbintlyfor money lent and advanced, and-may obtain ijoint judgment and execution for the amount found to be due; and each
defendant may make the, same separa'e'defence against such
action, either by plea or upon trial, that he could have made
against a separate action; and if -inthe tase herein pro'ided
for, the,bank or banker shall institute separate' action against
drawers and endorsers,-such bank or bankers shall recover no
costs. Providedalwaa,that in all suits or actions pro~secuted bye
baeak or l'anker,_ or persons claiming as'their asignees or under them in, aly way for their use b benefit, the sheriff upon
any execution' in his hands in favour of such bank or,banker,
their or .his asqignee as af~dgsaid, shall -receive the note or
notes of such bank or'banker, from the defendant in discharge
of the judgnehtl and if such. bank or banker, their.or his as*signee of other person suing in trust for the use of such bank br
banker, shall refise to receive-such note-from the sheriff, the
sheriff shall not be iable to any proceedings whatever at, the
slxit, or 1porr the complaint of the bank or banker, their or tis
assignee as aforesaid."
The facts of the case, so far as they were considered as important t9 the decision of the Court, are fully stated in the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Johnson.
The case was argued for the plaintiffs in error by Mr. Leonard, and by Mr. Sergeant for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiff made the following points
1. The Cir.uit Court erred in admitting the note in evidence under the money counts in the declaration, for if the statute of Ohio could be used as authority for the form of action,
the death of one of the parties, during the suit, determined the
right to proceed under that statute.
. The statute of Ohioi regulating the practice of the 5tate,
is not obligatory as to the practice of the Courts of the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

607

(Fulleiton et al. s. The Bank of the UnitedStates.)
United States, and-the statute of 18th February 1890, was passed' after the naking of the note bn which this -actibn is dunded.
S. There was no proof-of demand of payment of the note;
and the endorsers on the .note were discharged h this omission, and by the course the bank adopted. in reference to -the
note after its non-payinent by the drawer.
4. The notice of the non-payment was not given in time to
the .endorsers.
.Leonard insisted the Court erred in admitthig the note in
evidence, under the -money counts. The statute -of Ohio, authorizes joipt lctions against." all the drawers, or en dbrsers."
2 vol. O6i Laws, p. 61. This idtibn was insiltited. againgt
the- drawers and endorsers, and,-the drawer died before trial.
Although dijutictives are sometimes .construed conjunctively, yet no case-could be cited, in which it had beei heldthat a
disjunctive-miht be construed -co junctively, at oni time, and,
at aiwther, agreeably to' i- literal *ignification. The statute
being in derop.tion of the principles of -the common law, authorizing a joint adtion againstseveral persons, on several distinct and 'lissimiar contracts,.was stnitiu~fi jrzs, apd, after
the death of the drawer, no'suit ould be inslittitedor prqsecuted
under it. This constfuctioii was fortifiedliy 'another. law of
Ohio, requiring the property f the principal to be exhausted before that of the security id imad liable,-*hich was held
to'apply as between drpw.rrs and endorsers on'accommoditionnqtes.
P. The bill. of exceptions, distinctly' raises the question,
whether -the statutes of Ohio regulatin the, state prkctice,
are obligatory,. vi proptia, ohn the Umted States' Courts.
There is no evidence inwtbrecord, .thitthe state practice was
ever adopted by the Cour. and 4'the not. -was -permiitted to be

read in evidence, under the Act-of Ohio." Slee Wayinan anud
another vs.. Southard: and another, - l,0fieat. L Admitting
its.
the Circuit.Court might, under the a'uthority to. establ
practice adopt by .ritten -ules, -or otherwise, the prastice.i existen'M at the time of th act 6f adoption in the state Courts,

the Court wis not empowered to incorporate-into its .practice
by one Act of'prosptive regulatiod, whateve- might be the
future practice of the siape Courts; This'would b& not to ex-

ercise the judicial functiong intrusted to the .Court-but to
transfei-them to the state, authorities. An Act of'Congress'
adopting-the state practice in existence'at the time of its pas.sage, is valid; but an Actprescribing quch iules of praotice as
the tate legislatures might in future enact; would be -unconstitutional, as-it -would transfer to -the states, the powers'vested by the Constitution in Congress. If then, the Ceuft could
not, in the active exercise of ita powers, establish the future

608

SUPREME COURT.

(Fullerton et al. w. The Bank ofthe United States.)
,state practice; much lesacould the-passive acquiescence of the
Court, in laws and 'rules ,of practice enacted from time to
time by the state, estAblish it as a fundaniental and -constitutional rule that future state:regulations shoulct thereby become
a part of the Circuit Court practice. In the present instance,
the statute had never received the express sanction of the
Court, *as intr6duced and followed up by he Uited States
Bank alone, had never been contested, and always used sub
silentio.
The Act of Ohio was not passed until after the -note was
djscounted The Act established a rule of property, construction or evidence, rather than a rule of practice, and therefore
could not be applied to a eontract entered into before its passage. It was such a iule, as is referred to in S4 sect. dud. .'ct,
United States, chap. 20...
In general a demand is necessary on the drawer-to charge
the endorser. 'It may be dispensed with when the note is payable at the holders; and'its place supplied by proof, that the
holder was present, ready to receive payment, and the account
of the drawer inspected, and no credit found in -his fa~otr.
United States Bank vs. Smith, 'and the case- there cited, A1U
Wheat. 171;. This is the English rule, 2 H. Black. 509r and
this Court has strongly intimated an opinion in favour of its
correctness. No casE--not the cases in Mass. Rep., cited 11
Wheat. 171; go. the length to waive proof that the holder was
at the time and place ready to receive paymnent The
present
charge of the Court did not come up to the rule.. "If floe jury
were satisfied, from the evidence the note was in bank, 'and not
paid when it came to mnatuzrit," tlhe record purports to contain,
al the evidence in the case, and none was exhibited of the non-

payment of the note. Agreeably

to' the

charge, it. would be

sufficient for thle plaintiffs to prove the note in bank, at its maturity, withoutt ay iproof that it was then unpaid; because there
was no proof of thle nom'payment of the note in the case; and.
beside's, proof bught not to be required "of a negitive, that the
note was nnliid. Indeed it is impossible t give positive proof
of non-payment. "In this case, as in all other cases 'whatsoever,
the jury must be satisfied that the note was unpaid, when it
came to maturity, 'or render a"verdici for the defendant. Of
this-they wguld be satisfied, without positive p'roof. Non-payment is presumed, until payment is proven. If, therefore, the
jury 'were' satisfied the note was in hank, unpaid, ,when it
came to maturity, a verdict should not have been passed for
the plaintiffs, unless they were also satisfied a demand had been
made, for excused, or dispensed with. The non-payment might
have grown out of the absence of the holder, at the time and
place limited: for the payment. To charge an endorser, affirma-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.
(Fullerton et aL vs.

609

1_. Bank of the United States.)

tive proof must be exhibited of a demand, or of facts sufficient
to excuse or dispense with it. All the books say this, and none
assert that proof of a note's being in bank, and unpaid at its maturity, is such excuse or dispensation; much less th~at the presumption of non-payment, from the absence of proof of payment,
supersedes its necessity, and supplies its place. The doctrine of
the charge, when analyzed to its last result, and applied to the
evidence in the case, is, that proof the note was in bank
when it came to maturity, will charg the endorser;. nd this
wvithout a demand, or the evidence of any facts supplying or
excusing its want.
The jury should have been instructed' they must be-satisfied by affirmative proof thenotice was put in the pout-office,
on the day after the demand, in-season to go by the mail next
succeeding the day of demand.. Proof barely, that it *as put
in the post-office on that day, without affirmative proof it was
there in ceason to go by the next post, was insufficient. Lenox
vs. Roberts, 2 Theat. 373. In Darbyshire vs. Parker, 6 Bast, 3,
Lord Ellenborough says the rule as laid down originally in
Marius, is, the notice must be sent by the next post. In one
word, it is the next post, and not the iExt day. Due diligenCe
consists in placing the notice in the office before the post inext
after the last day of grace leaves..town-and not in placing it
there, on the day next after .the last day. of grace. This,' although on the next day,,7 might not 'be in time -for the next
mail; and due diligence must beproven, affirmatively, by the
plaintiffs. The record shows the plaintiffs did prove the notice
was put in the office on the next day, but not whether in season
fof the next mail; the record likewise shows they did not attempt to prove this, as it professes to contain all the evidence exhibited on the trial.
He then went into a minute examination of the instructions
asked, and charge given, comparing theni with the testimony;
to show the Court erred in the instructions refused,' and those
given, relative to the discount of the note, 'and the application
of its proceeds, if -a discount was made.
For the defendants in error, it was argued by Mr. Sergeant,
upon the first bill of exceptions-that the provision of the Act
of the state of Ohio, must be regarded either as a "law of the
state," furnishing a: "rule of decision" under. the 84th section.
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or as a mere rule of practice. He
would not say it ivas of the former description, though that
position would perhaps be supported by the authority of 3 De.
344, and S Dal/.426. It mlght be deemed in effect an enactment,
that quoad hoe the contract should be considered a joint contract, for the purpose of remedy. In.Pennsylvania, where there
is no Court of Chancery, ejectment may be maintained upon ga
VoL.-I.
4H

SUPREME COURT.
(FuUcrton et al. vs. The Bank of the United States.)
equitable title. Not that an equitable title is a legal title, in
general, but only that it is a legal title for the purpose of maintaining the action. This has been in part adopted in the Federal Court in that District, as the law of the state. Upon the
same principle, the law of Ohio, would seem to be a rule of
decision. If so, it would be obligatory upon the Circuit Court.
But this it was not necessary to affirm; for, if it was a "rule
of practice," the Court had "p6wer to adopt it, and it is quite
'clear fhat it :had been adopted, though there was no written
rule on the subject. So that,' either way, it was properly applicable to the case, and therd was no error in applying it. As
a beneficial, remedial law, it was well worthy of adoption.
, Upon the construction of the Act, it was argued, that taking
the whole 'of the section together, it was the obvious intention
of the legislature to give one action against the drawer and endorsers.- The latter part' of the section 'was irreconcilable with
any other intention. Besides, it is necessary to make sense of
the first part 'of the section itself.' Otherwise construed, that is,
disjunctively, the effect would be to give a joint action against
drawees;
But a joint action might be maintained against
drawees without the aid of an Act of the legislature. The
Court would not incline to impute ntedless legislation.
If thiis was the true construction, and the Act gave a joint
actipn, or, quoad the renledy, considered the contract as joint,
it would leave the action, when brought, upon the same tooting and subject ..tb the same r~le 'as. all other actions upon.
joint~contrficts, unless 'otherwise provided by the Actz . DPoes
a joint action abate by the death of one of the defendants ? Certainly not. Is there any thing in the Act which declares thai
this action shall.abate in that e\'ent?. It is clear that-there is
no such provision; such a-provisio'n 'would thave been incon~ist-.
eat with the obvious design-'of the Act;-for how would the
multiplic'atiqn of suits be avoided by declaring that the action
should abate upon a contingency of no importance to the merits, and the plaintiff in that case be Compelled to bring s~veral
suits? It would be derogatory-to the.intelligence of the legis..
,lature, to impute such an intention. 'I~h~re: was" nothing to
warrant it; either in the words or spirif of the Act.
Upon the secoxnd bill of exceptions, it was~rgued-l. Thai
the nature of .the case was apparent from the record, and the
effort of the defence appeared to. have been, to giv€9 it :a tech.
nical complexion diffement froni the'reality. .From a list In the
recordl it would be seen that the note inquertiba was one (the
last)'of a series ofunotes, beginning in the year 1817 with the
same names,.but' not always in ,the shine"order4 discounted by
the ofice of the B ankpf.;he Unifed Staes at Cinchnnati. Trhis
note was put into'bank as a renewal fo#'the prccise purpose,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

61l.

(Fullerton et al. m. The Bank of the United States.)
manifestly ignown to all the parties, of applying the proceeds to
the payment of the next precedingnote. It was discounted-on
that condition, and on no other. Thedefendants bel6w were interested in the condition, for their names were all upon the prior
note, which must have been- protested :but for.the payment by
means of this-discount. Of the fourteen instructions required,
(most of them now abandoned) it will be seen, that the greater
part, in some shape or other, aimed to work- out a conclusion,
(contrary to the truth of the cask,) thatthd proceeds of the discount were to be placed to the credit of the'last eirddrser,- andthe preceding note to remain unpaid. ' Upon that subject, the
charge of the Court was clear and satisfactory, and to the full
as favourable to the defendants, as they could reasonably ask,
leaving it to the jury as a matter of fact to decide, whether from
"th~e'eidence in'the case it was not proved that the application
of the proceeds vas made with the consent of the last endorser.
The fact of his consent, the jury have, therefore, found, For
this, the counsel referred to the charge.
2. As to proof of demand, the charge of the Court, (thoug

there seems to have been no dispute on thatp'oint below,) was
in these words: 'The jury odght to be 'satisfied that the note.

had been discounted by and became the property of the bank;
that it was in bank and no paid whenrit cahe to maturity." The
note being payable at the bank, and the jury having'fouid that
it was in bank, and not paid when it came to maturity, nothing
mwre coulibe necessary.
S. Upon the point o6f jotice, the charge of the Court was, as
it was understood, in precise conformity with what the counsel
for the plaintiff in error required. -Thiswas the natural, and
the grammatical interpretatigh of the language used by the
learned Judge--"succeeding" referred, as its antecejient, to
- "the last day of grace."
Thus understood-and if there had
been ambiguity, it was the duty of the counsel below to ask for
a more precise instruction at the time--the charge is, that the
notice was to be in the post-ofice in time to go by the mail following the last day of grace; and this the plaintiff in error
insists it ought to be. As to the fact, whether there was a
mail on the following day, and at what hour, there was no evidence.
It is unnecessary to state the arguments more at large, as the
opinion of the Court goes so fully into the case.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.This cause comes up from the Circuit Court of Ohio, on a
writ of error. The record exhibits a judgment recovered by the
defendants here, against the plaintiffs, in an action fdr money lent

SUPREME COURT.
(Fulleiton et al. vs. The Bank of the United States.)

and advanced.- The plea was non assumpsit, with notice of U
discount, and a verdict for plaintiff below.
The errors assigned arise upon various bills of exception,
the first of which was taken to the evidence offered to maintain
an action, in these words, "1The plaintiff in support of his action, offered in evidence the following promissory note drawn
by Isaac Cook, and endorsed by Humphrey Fullerton, John
Waddle apd John -Carlisle."
"84000
Cincinnati, Februaryls, 1890.,
Sixty, days after date, I promise to pay John Carlisle, or
order, at the office of discount and deposit of the Bank of the
United States at Cincinn'ti, four thousand dollars, for value
received.
(Signed)
IsAAo COOK.
Endorsed-Jon CQzrli8kl, John Waddle, Humiphrey .llerlon."
"To the introduction of this evide ice the defendant by his
counsel objected, as evidence of a several contract of the drawer and each of the endorsers on the note, arid not of any joint
undertaking or liability of the defendants, which objection was
overruled by the Court, and the note permitted'to be fead in
evidence, under the Act of the general assembly'of Ohio, entitled ., A n Act to regulate judicial proceedings, .'where banks
and bankers are parties, and to prohibit the issuing of bank
bills of certain descriptions,' passed 18th of February 1820, to
which decision the counsel excepted."
*Cook, it appears, was originally made a.
party defendant to
the action, but died pending the suit; the plaintiff suggested
"his death on the record, and went to trial against the remaining three defendants.
In order to understand the bearing which the instruction
moved for has upon the cause, it is necessary to remark, that
the state of Ohio was not received into the Union until 1802;
so that the process Act of 1792, which is expressly -confined ii
its operation to the day of its passage, in adopting the practice, of the state Courts into the Courts of the United States,
could have no-operation in that state. But the District Court
of the United States, established in the state in IS03, was vested with all the. powers and jurisdiction of the District Court
of Kentucky, which exercised full Circuit Court jurisdiction,
with power to create a practice forits own government.
The District Court of Ohio, it appears, did not create a system for itself, but finding one established in the state, in the
true spirit of the policy pursued by the United, States, proceeded to administer justice according to the practice of the state
.Cottrts; or in effect adopted by a single rule, the state system

JANUARY TERM,

8-18.

613

(Fuerton et al. w. the BaPk of the United States.)
of practice, n, the same mode in which'this Coiurt, -at an'early
periodi adopted the practice of the King's Bench in Englaid.
So that when the eventh Circuit was established, in the-year
1807, the judge of this.Court, who was assigned to that Cilcuit,
found the practice of the state Courts adopted in fact into the
Circuit Court of the United States. "
. t has not been deemed necessary to make any material alferations since; but as far as it was found practicable and -convenient, the state practice has, by an uniform understanding, been
pursued by'that Court withouthaving passedany phsitive rules
upon the subject. The Act of the 18th February 18£O, alludled
to in the bill of exceptions, was a very wise and benevolent law,
calculated, lrincipally, to-relieve the parties to promissory
noies from accumulated expenses-; its salutary effects produced its immediate adoption into the practice of the Circuit Court
of the United States ; and. from that time, to the present, in innumerable instances, suits have been there prosecuted under.
it,. The . Iteration in practice, (properly so called) produced
by.,the operation of this Act,.was very inconsiderable, since it
only requires notice to be.given of the cause of action by endorsint it on the writ and filing it with the-declar~aion, after
which the defendants were at liberty to manage their' dqfence, as
if the note had been formally declared upon in the usual mane
I
ner.
Itis not contended that a practice as such, can only be sustained bywritten rules; such-must be the extent to which the
argument goes, or certainly it would not be "supposed, that a
party pursuing a former mode of pr9ceedingt sanctioned by
the most solemn acts of-the Court, through -the course of eight
years, is now to be surprised and turfiedout of Court, upon a
gi-ound which has no bearing upon the-merits.
But we are decidedly 'of opinion, the objection cannot be
maintained." -Written rules are unquestionably to be preferred,.
because their copmencement, and their actioni and their meaning, are most"onveniently determined; but what want of cer.tainty can there be, where a Court by-long acquiescence hasestablished it to be the law of that Court, that the statepractice shall be their practice, as far as they have the means of
carrying it into effect, or-until deviated from by positive rules
of their own making. Such we understand has been the course
of the United States Court in Ohio, for twenty-five years past.
'Ilie practice may have begun and probabfy did begin in a mistaken construction of the process Act, and then it partakes of
the authority of adjudication. But there was a higher tmdtive
for adopting the provisions of. this law, into the* practice of
that Court; and this bill of exceptions brings up one of those
difficult questioa*, which must often occur in a Court inwhich

614

SUPREME CO

MRT.

(Tulerton et al.vs. The Bank of the United States.3
the remedy is prescribed by one sovereign, and the law of the
contract by another. It is not easy to draw the line between the
remedy and the right, where the remedy constitutes so important a part of the right; -nor isit easy td 'redhce into practice,
the exercise of a plenary power over contracts, without the
right to declare by what evidence contracts shall be judicially
established. Suppose the stateof Ohio had' declared'thht the
undertakingo'f the drawer and endorser of anote, shall'be joint
and not several, or contingent; and that such note shall be good
evidence to maintain an action for money lent and advanced;
would not this become a law Qf the contract ? wherethenwould
be the objectioh to its.being acted upon in'the Courts of the
United States? Would it havebedn prudent or respectful, or
even legal, to have excluded from all operation in the Courts of
the United States, an Act which had so important a bearing
upon the law of contracts, as that now under consideration?
An Act in its provisions so salutary to the citizen, and which,
in the daily administration of justice in the state Courts'would
not have been called upon otherwise than as a law-of the particular contract; a law, which as to'promissory notes introduced ali except'on into the law of evidence, and of actions.. It is
true, the Act in some of its provisions, has inseparably connected the mode of proceeding, with the right of recovery.
But what-is the course of prudence and duty, where these cases
of difult distribution as to power and right present themselves? It i$ to yield rather than encroach; the duty is 'reci:
procal, and will no doubt be met in the spirit of moderation and'
comity. "Inthe conflicts of power and opinion, inseparable from
our very -peculiar relations, cases :may occur, in which, the
maintenance' of principle, and the, administration of justice according to its innate and inseparable attributes, may require a
different course; ani when such cases do occur, our Courts
musi do their duty,; but until then, it is, administering justice
in the true spirit of the Constitution and laws of the United
States, to conform, as nearly as practicable, to the administration of justice in the Courts of the state.
In'the 'present instance,' the Act was conceived in the true
spirit of distributive justice; violated no principle{ was easily
introduced into the-practice of the Courts of the United Stafes;
has been there acted -upon through a period of eight years;
and, has. been properly treated a'sa paitof the law of that
Court. But, it is contended that it was improperly applied to
the present case, because the note bears date prior to the passage of the law; and this certainly presents a qtiestion which is
always to be'approached with due precaution, to wit, the extent of legislative power over existing contracts.
.3ut what -i'ght is violated, what hardship or,injury pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

615

(Fullerton et aL. vs. The Bank of the United States.)
duced, by the operation of this Act? It was passed for the relief of the defendant, and is effectual in relieving him from a
weight of costs, since it gives to the plaintiff no more than the
costs of a single suit, if he should elect to bring several actions
against drawer and endorser. Nor doed it subject the defendants to any inconvenience, from a joint action; since it secures to
eath defendant, every privilege of pleading and defence of which
he could avail himself if severally sued. The Circuit Court has
incorporated the action with all its incidents ihto its course of
practice;
having
adopt it,
legal
objection and
to its
doingfullpowerbylawto
so, in the prosecution
ofweseeno
that system,
upon which it has always acted.. It cannot be contepded that
the liabilities of the defendants under their, contract, have been
increased, or even varied; and as to change in tlie mere form
of the remedy, the doctrine cannot be maintained, that this- is
forbidden to the legislative power or to the tribunal itself,
when vested with full power to regulate its 6wn practice.
The next bill of exceptions ha relation exclusively to the
discount. It sets"out a great deal of ev-idence, and sixteen spe,
cifications, if they may be sci called, of the prayers~asked of the
Court by the defendant'T counsel; the whole making out this
case. It appears that in December: 1817, Isaac Cook's note,
with these "endorsers upon it, was discounted at the bank of
Cincinnati, and renewed every sixty days down to February
1st 1"820; It commenced at $6000, and in Septemiberl1818 was
reduced to $4000, for Which amuunt it was renewed uniformly
down to the last date. In its origin .one M'ILaughlin's
name was also on the paper, and sometimes h , and sometimes
Cook, was the last endorser, until March 18t9, wrhen Co~k
was uniformly the last endurser down to. tlhe date of the present note. The proceeds -of the successive renewals, were of
course credited to him, and passed to the payment of the preiceding note.
But on this note Fullerton stands as the last endorserr and the
proceeds were credited to him, and Cook's note.of the preceding date was harged to Fullerton's account without his check;
thus balancing the citedit which the discounting of~the last renewal gave to Fullerton on the books of the bank. The utite
so charged was oftcourse not protested, and thus Fullerton and
his co-endorsers escaped paymeal of that note; -and'now they
propose to escape the payment of thisr by nsistingthat' without a
check from Fullerton, authorizing the applicaions .of .the proceeds as credited to him, to .the payment of the previous note,
the bank is stilt indebted to him to that amount. This-is an ngracious defence, and one which no Court of justice. can feel"disposed to sustain. To repel it the plaintiffs introduced Yit
nesses to prove, that this note *as expresslv discounted in or-

616

SUPREME COURT.

The Bank of the United States.)
(Fullerton et al. tv.
der that the proceeds might be applied to the previous note
and would not have been discounted otherwise; and conlend,
that the bank, having the fund in-hand to pay itself, had a right
so to apply it with~out a check,--upon the ground of implied assent. With a view to that queftion, the defendants below have
introduced thirteen out of sixteen of their prayers. They all go
to maintain the single proposition, that Fullerton, as last en•dgrser, was entitled to credit for.the proceeds of this note, and
is still entitled, -ifthey have not been legally applied to the
payment of the note which preceded it.
The remaining three- prayers, 'to wit, the 13th, 14th, and.
15th, raise a question on the sufficiency of the, demand on the
drawer, and of the notice of non-payment to the endorser, and
the proof introduced to establish both facts.
The entry in the record on the subject of the charge to the
jury, is in these terms. "1But the Court instead of the foregoing instructioits as asked, charged and instructed the jury, that
to enable the plaintiffs to recover, the jury ought to be satisfied
from the evidence that the note had been discounted by and
become the property of the bank; that it was in the bank and
not paid, when it came to maturity that due notice of the protest and non-payment, had been given to the parties, and that
such notice had been put into the post-office the day after the
last day of grace in time to - go- by the succeeding mail; that
every note discounted in bank, was primafade to be regarded
as'a business note, and that when such notes were discounted,
generally and regularly, the proceeds of the note should be
carried to the credit of the last endorser, and paid to his check ;that the printed and published rules of the bank,.ought in the
absence of other testimony to be considered as regulating the
course of business ofthe bank,- but that if the jury were satisfied from the evidence, that a practice and course of business in
the office of discount and deposit in Cincinnati, had prevailed
and was known to defendants, and that the note in question had
been discounted and treated in all respects, according to such
practice and course of business,- but not according to the printed rules, the plaintiffs had a right to recover. That the bank had
not a right to apply the proceeds of the note contrary to the
understanding and directions of the last endorser, or to any other
•uge than the use of the last endorser, without his consent; but
that if the jury were satisfied from tae.evidence, that according
-to the custom and practice of the bhnk in the case when a new
note was -put into *the bank for the purpose of renewing and
continuing a former loan or discount, the check of the last endorser was sometimes required, and sometimes dispensed with,
and that in the latter case, it was the practice to file away the
old note as %check; and that, if the note sued upon lhad beet

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

617

(Fullerton et al. vt. The Bank of the United States.)
discounted and treated in the latter manner, with the consent
of the parties to it, the plaintiffs had a right to recover, and
that such consent may be inferred and found by the jury, from
the facts and circumstances given in evidence, without direct
or positive proof,if in the opinion of the jury the facts and circumstances proved, warrant such inference. That if the jury
find the note was not discounted, the plaintiff cannot recover;
or if they find that it was discounted, but the proceeds remain
in the bank carried to the credit of the last endorser, and not
drawn or applied with his consent to any other purpose, the
money may and ought to be set off against the note; but if they
find, that the note sued on was put into bank for the purpose of
renewing a former note or l6an, and for no bther purpose, and
with the understanding of all the parties, that if discounted the
proceeds could andwould, by the courseof business in.thebank,
be applied solely to the discharge of the former note,. and that
they had been so applied, and the.old note retained, and written
off as a check, by the bank; that the plaintiffs ought to recover."
The exceptio'n taken is, to, refusing to give the instructions
as asked, and to- giving them in the .form in which they were
,propqunded to the jury. And .the' question is whether the instruction' given covered the.whole ground of the instructions
prayed for, aid v'-re legallycQrrect, in the form in which they
were rendered.
We are of opinion they cover the whole ground taken by the
defendants, or at least as far as they had, a right to require.
This will be obvious from a simple analysis of the charge. The
propositions which it imports, will be examined in. their order.
The first is upon, the sufficiency of the demand, and the law
laid down on this point is, "that on a note made payable at a
particular bank, it is sufficient to show, that the note had been
discounted and become the property of the bank,,and that it
was in the bank, not paid at maturity."
Nothing more than this could have been required of the
Court; for the positive proof that the bill ivas no paid, will certainly implly that, there wlre no funds of the drawer there to
pay it. The fact could-uot -have beep made more positive by
inspection of the books. The charge is perhaps too favourable
to the defendants, since inodern decisions go to establish, that
if the note-be at the place on the day-it is payable, this throws
the onui of.proof of payment upon the defendant. (4 Jo/sng. 188.)
This is more reasonable than to require- of the plaintiff the
proof of a negative, and comport better with'the general law
of contracts.
The next instruction is, in the language of the Court "that
notice of the non-payment and protest, should have been given
to the endorser through the medium of the post-officei the-day
V o. I.
41

618

SUPREME COURT.

(Fullerton etal. v8. The Bank of the United States.)
after the last day df grace, in fim To go by the succeeding
mail."
The defendant's counsel, in arguing on this part of the in.
struction, insisted much on the obligation on the plaintiff to
establish definitively and positively, that the notice given was
in time to go by thenext-mail; but.has not adverted to his own
omission, in not putting into^ the case evidence that there was
a mail established from Cincinnati, to the place of the defendant's residence. Yet, if the jury might be left on this point,
to take that fact upon notoriety, or personal knowledge, it would
be difficult to maintain that they might not, on the same grounds,
find the minor fact, that the notice deposited in any part of the
business hours of that day, would be in time fol- the mail ensu.
ing the third day of grace. It is argued that the.language used
by the Court on this point is equivocal,'and may have lqd the
jury to suppose, that sending the notice by the mail whikh sueceeded the day'after the last day of grace, .was ,sufficient. But
we think the construction is forced. The wbrds are, "the day
after the last day of grace, in"time to go by the succeeding

mail." Succeeding what? obviously, the last day of grace other-

wise there might be no necessity for putting it in the oflfce,
ufitil the second day after the last day of grace whereas the
necessity of putting it ihon the first day after, is expressed in the
charge.
With this signification it 'was rather more favourable than
need be given, since the mail of the next day may have gone out
before early business hours, orno mail may have gone out for
several days.
The residue of the -charge relates to the application of the
p oceeds of this note, to the previous note without the check
of the last endorser; and this also, we think, embraces all the
defendants asked, and is as faLvourable as the law would sanction. It admits, that thii should be ]regarded as a business note,
that the proceeds should have been passed to the 'credit of the
last endorser, and should not have been, applied otherwise than
-by his assent; but it then goes on to assert, what surely could
not be con troverted, that with the assentof 'the last endorser,
the money, instead of being passed to his credit might be otherwise applied, that with his consent it might be applied to the
satisfaction of another note, for which he was endorser, without
his checking for the amount; and that his consent may be implied, from circumstances, as all other facts may be.
The jury have found then, that with his consent it was so
applied, and the evidence fully bore them out in their finding;
if competent, it was all the-law requires.
It may be proper to observe that every discount is in the nature of a cross-action, and 4f the discount filed in this case were

JANUARY TERM, 18q8.

6,!0

(Fullerton et al. s. The Bank of the United States.)
thrown into the form of an action, it- would be for money had
and received to defendant's use.
The merits of this defence need only be tested by the law
which governs that actioti, to make it clear that the evidence
would not sustain it. It goes in fact to show, that in what are
called renewals of bank loans, the lending is qualified and not
absolute; that when credit is giveni aud money advanced upon
a note of that description, it is not an adyance on general account, but only for the purpose of aspecific application. Any
act done by the bank, therefoie, whatever be the mere form, if
it have for its end the carrying of the cofitract into effect, in its
true spirit and intent, must be binding uponall the parties to
the contract. Nothing more is affirmed in this charge or verdict.
One general objection-was taken in argument to the instruction given, importing a charge of incdnsistency, inasmuch) as
although it admits the note to be a business note, as it is called, and therefore to be passed to the credit of the last endorser,
it permits it to be treated as an accommodation note, in allowing it to be passed to ae credit of the-drawer. But if this were
strictly the fact, what defence, does it afford to the action, if
such were the agreement, and thexal understanding of the parties? In strictness, however, it was not passed to the credit-of
the drawer alone, for in the progress of the ruinbus system of
loans, which prevails over the country, the note discounted as
the renewal of an accommodation note, canrnt be called abusiness
note, nor can it in correctnesg be predicated of such a note, that
it is passed to the credit'of the drawer alone,,when the last ,xdorser has in effect an equal relief from the application of the
proceeds.
We do not deem it necessary to consider a question commented upon in argument,-by the counsel for the bhunk and
perhaps glanced at by the opposite counsel, whether. this note
was not void as an accommodation note, under the rules of the
bank, because not secured, by a deposit of stock.
No one of the exceptions raises the question, and we should
think it injustice to the counsel for-the plkintiffs here to sup,
pose that he intended'tQ raise it.

.Tudgrncnt a

me.d;7

hC88

