SUPREME COURI,

THE

UNITED STATES,
VIRGINIA,

APPELLANTS, VS. THE SALINE BANIZ Of
JOHN WEBSTER, AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.

The plaintiffs, as creditors of an unincorporated bank, filed a bill against the
Cashier, and a number of persons, stockholders of the bank, for a discovery and relief; who, in reply to the bill, state, that their answers to the
bill, would subject them to penalties, under the laws of Virgnia, prohibiting unincorporated banks: held, that the defendants were not bound
to make any discovery, which would expose them to penalties. {104
THIS case came before the Court, on an appeal by the United States, from the decree of the District Court of the United
States, for the western district of Virginia; in which Court,
the District Attorney of the United States, filed a bill against
John Webster, Cashier, and a number of others, as stockholders of the Virginia Saline Bank, to charge them, in their private capacities, for certain deposits of money made with them,
and also to subject their joint funds, Fkc..
The bill charges, that about the year
a company was
formed by a number of persons, citizens of Virgi,.ia, within
that district, to carry on the usual and ordinary business of
banking. That they established a banking house-assumed the
name and style of the "P r esident, Directors, and Company
of the Saline Bank of Virginia." That they issued notes, or
bills, purporting to be payable oit of the joint funds-to make
discounts and exchanges, whereby circulation and currency was
given to their notes and bills. That in discharge of public
dues, 10, 120 dollars of their notes, were paid into the Treasury of the United States, before the 21st of October 1819; and,
on that day, 5,831 dollars, in said notes, were deposited by an
agent of the Treasury, with John Webster, Cashier of th said
association, who demanded payment therefor, after obtaining a
certificate of deposite; which payment was refused 13y Webster, who said he had no funds.
At the same time, the agent presented a.draft drawn by the
Treasurer of the United States, for 4,290 dollars, being also
for their rotes received in the Treasury, which was the balanei of the said sum of 10,120 dollars. This draft was refused also, for want of funds. The bill charges, that Webster
possessed funds of the company in specie and notes of solvent
char ered banks, and combined with individuals of the company to refuse payment, by fraudulently .secreting these funds.
The bill prays an account of the funds of the company, and
also, to subject the Cashier and stockholders to a personae
decree.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

101

('rhe United States vs. The Saline Bank of Virginia et al.)
There was filesd with the bill, the following documents mentioned therein -.
1. "Virginia Saline Bank, October 21st 1812, William
Wham has deposited in this bank, 5,831 dollars, in notes
of the same, for safe keeping-to be returned to him, or his
order."
J. - WEBSTER, Cashier.
2. "Virginia Saline Bank, 21st October 1819. I certify,
that William Wham, Cashier of the Bank of Columbia, acting as agent for the Treasurer of the United States, this day
demanded payment of my receipt of this date, in his favour,
for 5,831 dollars. That he presented a draft drawn by the
Treasurer of the United Sates, No. 9,079, dated 18th March
1818, in favour of Jonathan Smith, for 4,250 dollai-s, and demanded payment for the said deposite and the said draft;
whereunto I answered, that I was not prepared with funds. and
could not pay the said draft, or deposite, at this time."
J. WEBSTER, Cashier.
The above-mentiohed draft, drawn by the Treasurer, is'in
these words:No. 9,079, Reg'd. March 18th 1818,
for the Register,
J.DAWSON.
No. 9079, Dr. 4,290.
Treasury of the United States,
Wasliington, -larch 18, 1818.
Sir: At sight, pay to Jonathan Smith, Esq. Cashier Bank
United States, four thousand two hundred and ninety dollars,
value received.
T. T. TueKER,
JoHN WrEBsTER, Esq.
Trea. U. States.
Ca.shier TuI'inia aline Bank.
To the bill of the United States, the defendants filed the following joint and several plea, witi the usual affidavit:
These defendants, by protestation, iot confessing or acknowledging all, or any of the matters and things in the complainants'
said bill of complaint contained, to be true, in such manner and
form, as the same are therein alleged, and set forth, for plea
thereunto say, that the company which assumed the name and
style of the "President, Directors, and Company, of the Saline Bank of Virginia," whereof mention is made in the said
bill of complaint, had not, at the time of the issuing, or of
giving currency or circulation to the noies or bills in the said
bill of complaint mentioned, or at any time hitherto, any charter incorporating the said company with authority to deal or
trade as a bank, or any charter whatsoever; and these defendants further say, that all the notes and bills issued by the said

SUPREME COURT.
(The United States w.The Saline Bank of Virginia et al.)
company, and to which circulation and currency was given, a,,
in and by the complainants' bill is supposed, were entitled and
offered in payment by the said company, to wit: at the time of
the issuing of the said notes and bills, as charged and supposed by the said bill of complaint, to wit, at the western judicial district of Virginia; and these defendants aver, that all the
matters and transactions in the said bill of complaint stated,
and whereof discovery is sought, relate to the emission of the
said bills and notes by the said company, and to the offering
the same in payment as aforesaid, all which matters andthings,
these defendants are ready to javer, maintain, and prove, as
this honourable Court may-award; and these. defendants are
advised, and insist, that they ought not to be compelled to discover, or set forth any matters, whereby they may impeach or
accuse themselves of any offence or crime, or be fliable by the
laws of the commonwealth of Virginia, to penalties and grievous fines; for which cause, these defendants humbly pray the
judgment of this honourable Court, whether they shall be compelled to make any other or further answer to said bill of complaint, and -humbly pray to be hence dismissed, &c.
J. PINDALL, Defendants' Attorney.

The cause was set for argument, on this plea, by consent.
The District Court sustained the plea, and dismissed the bill.
From which decree, the United States appealed to this Court.
The record contains the articles of association called for by
the bill, with a list of the subscribers, the 4th article whereof,
is in these words, viz: "No stockholder shall be answerable
in his person, or individual property, for any contract or.engagement of the said company, or for any losses, deficiencies,
or defalcations of the capital stock of the said company; but
the whole of the said capital stock, together with all the rights
and credits, and all the property, both real and personal, belonging to the said company, and nothing more, shall, at all
times, be answerable for the legal and equitable demands
against the said company."
By the articles"of association, it appeared, that the siubscription of the stock, of the company, began on the 14th of August 1814.
The legislature of Virginia, had thrice enacted laws on the
subject of unincorporated banking companies, in February and
1816; and in August 1817. Tate'8Digest,41, 42.
ini'The
November
following
are the provisions of the laws of Virginia upon this matter 1. It shall not be lawful for any association, or company,
mot having a charter incorporating suth association or company, with authority to deal or trade as a bank, now formed or in
being, or which hereafter ma ,be formed within the limits of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

103

(The United States vs. The Saline Bank of Virginia et Ai.)
this Commonwealth, for the purpose of discounting notes,
bills, or other securities, for the payment of money or other
valuable thing, and issuing notes, drafts or bills, -whether payable to order or bearer, or any other securities for the payment of money or other valuable thing, in the name, or on account, or for the benefit of, any such association or company,
or otherwise for the purpose of dealing, trading, or carrying
on business as a bank; to commence or conthue the-discounting of any notes, or bills, or other securities, for the payment
of money or any other- valuable thing, or the issuing of any
notes, drafts or bills, or other securities for the payment of
money, or other valuable thing, or such -dealing, trading, or
carrying on business, as a bank; -and every member, officer or
agent of any such company or association, that may so commence or continue such discounting or issuing of notes, drafts,
bills, or other securities, or .the dealing, trading, or carrying
on business as a bank, shall be held and taken to be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, on indictnient, information or presentment, shall be liable to be fined at the discretion of a jury, in a sum not less than one hundred, nor exceeding five hundred dollars. And, if any such company or association, or any president, manager, cashier, or other officer or
agent of such company or association, shall pay out, deliver,
put in circulation, or issue any note, draft, bill, or other secuT-ity, for the payment of money or other valuable thing, purporting to promise, order, request or stipulate the payment of
money or other valuable thing, or that money or other valuable thing is payable by, or on behalf of such company or association, or any person or persons as agent or agents thereof;
each member, officer and agent thereof shall be, in like manner, liable to the same penalty.
All contracts that hereafter may be made by individuals
for the purpose of forming themselves into any association or
company, for discounting and issuing notes and other securities, for the payment of money or other valuable thing, as
mentioned in the first section of this Act, or dealing, trading,
or carrying on business as a bank;" shall be, and the same are.
hereby declared to be utterly null and void.
2. The capital stock of any association or company, trading, discounting paper, or issuing notes, in violation of this
Act, and all capital stock subscribed to such association or
company; shall be held in trust for the benefit of the commonwealth, and it shall be the duty of the Attorney General,
whenever he shall be informed of the existence of any such
company or association, to institute a suit in the Superior
Court of Chancery for. the district of Richmond, in behalf
of the Commonwealth, for the purpose of recovering the capi-

SUPREME- COURT.
(The United States vs. The Saline Bank of Virginia et al.)
tal stock aforesaid. in such suit, it shall be lawful to makt
all or any of the members of such company or association, and
any officer, agent or manager thereof, parties defcndant-and
to call upon awd compel them, or either of them, to exhibit
all their books and papers, and an account of all such matters
and things as may be necessary to enable the Court to make
a decree in pursuance of the provisions of this Act. The
members of any such association or company, made defendants in such suit, shall be held severally liable to the Commonwealth for their respective proportions of the capital
stock held in such company or association, at the institution
of such suit, or the time of the decree, or by any person or
persons, for his, her or their benefit; and the Court shall decree, against the defendants, respectively and severally, the
amounts that they and each of them may respectively and seierally hold as aforesaid, in the capital stock of such compan%
or association, or by any person or persons for his, lier, or their
use or benefit, to be levied of the proper goods and chattels, lands
and tenements of such defendants: Provided, however, That no
disclosure made by any party defendant to such suit in equity, and no books or papers exhibited by him in answer to the
bill, or under the order of the Court, shall be used as elidence against him in any motion or prosect tion under this
law-and that a recovery in such suit shall be :t bar to everx
motion or prosecution agailrst any defendant to such suit
for the recolery of any penalty, or the infliction of any punishment prescril)ed by this Act.
See also I Randolph's RIp., 71 to 101 inclusive.
The case was submitted to the Court without argument.
by the Attorney (eneral of the Uaited States; and by Mlessi
Webster and L)odridge, for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice MAnSHALr. delivered the opinion of thu
Court.This is a bill in equity for a discovery and relief. The defendants set up a plea in bar, alleging that the discovery would
subject them to penalties under the statute of Virginia.
The Court below decided in favour of the validity of the plea,
and dismissed the bill.
It is apparent that in every step of the suit, the facts required to be discovered in support of this suit would exlpos.
time parties to danger. TIu'l rule clearly is, that a party is not
bound to make any discoveiy which would expose him to pe nalties, and this case fIlls within it.

The decree of the Court below is therefore affirmed.

