THE DECISIONS
Or TEE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
-AT

JANUARY TERM, 1828-.

S, HuT'r APPELLANt, vs. CHSusTOIm'ER RnHOD S
WILLIAM ENNIrS AND RIcIr-ARD K RANDO.LPH, ADMINISTRATORS OF LEWIS ROUSNaIZrIE, DECEASEDI APPELLEES.

CLEMENT

It is a principle of equity, that, when an instrument is drawn and executed, which professes, or is intended, to carry into execution an agreement, whether in writing or by parol, previously entered into; but which,
by mistake of the draftsman, either in fact of in law, does not fulfil, or
which violates the manifest intention of the parties to the agreement;
equity will correct the mistake, so as to produce a conformity of the instrument to the agreempent. {131
The execution of instruments, fairly and legally entered into, is one of the
peculiar branches oT equity jurisdiction; and a Court of Equity will
compel a delinquent party to perfoim his agreement, according to the
terms of it, and to the manifest intentidi of the parties. {1}
So, if the mistake exist, not in the instrument, which is intended to give
effect to the agreement, but in the agreement itself, and is clearly proved to have been the result of ignorance of some material fact; a Court
of Equity will, in general, grant relief, according-:to the .nature-of the
particular case in which it is sought. {13}
If an agreement was not founded on aXmistake of any material fact, and if
it was executed in strict confbrmity with'itself; it would be unprecedented, for a Court of Equity to decree another security to be given,
different from that which had been agreed upon; or to treat the cs
as if such other security had, in fact, been agreed upon and executed.
114}
Courts of Equity may compel parties to executi their agreements, but it
has no power to make agreements for them. The death of one of the
parties, and the consequent inefficiencyof the security selected, intended
to be valid and complete, but which was not so,.will not give the right of
interference.. 1141

VOL. L

A

2SUPREME

COURT
(Hunt s .Rousmaniere's Adim)

.A mistake rising from ignorance of law, is not a ground for reforming z
deed founded on such mistake; except in some few cases, and those of peculiar characters. 115-1
If the obligee of a joinrbond4 by two or-more, agree 'with one obligor to
release him, and do so;and all the obligors are therety discharged at
law, equity will-hotafWord relief againstthe legal con.equences although
the release was given under.a manlfest misappreEmsion of the legal effect of.it, in relation to the ofierobligrs. 1161
Itseem, that there may le cases in which a Court of Equity will relieve
against a plain mistake, arising. from ignorance of 'law. But where parties, upon deliberation aid advice, reject one species of security, and agree
to select another, under a misapprehension of the law as to the mature of
the security thus -selected; a Court of Equity will not, on the ground of
misapprehensi6n, and the insui~clency of the 'security, in consequence
of a subsequent event not foreseen; direct a security of a different character to be given, or d ee that to,be done, which 'the parties supposed
would hayve been effected by the instrument, which was finally agreed
upon. Tire Court would be iptich less disposed to interfere in such a case 7
'in ftv.ur ofa partioular creditor, against the general-creditorso fan insolvent estate. {171
THE appellant filed a bill on the- Clmncery side of the Circuit Court -of the United States, for the district of Rhode
Island, setting.forth, that,.in'January 1820, Lewis Rousmaniere
obtained from him two-loans of money, anmounting, together,
to 915Q dollars; and, at the time the first loan was made,
kousmaniere ofibred to give, in addition to his notes,'a bill of
sale,. qr mortgage of his interest,' in the -brig Nereus,.then at
sea, as a collateral security for the repayment of the money.
A few' days after the' delivery of the 'Irt note, dated 11ltlof
Y.nuary 1820, he -executed a power' of' attorney, authoriziig
the plaintiff to 'make and execute a bill of 'sale, of threefourths of the Nereus, to himself, or to any other person;
and in the event of. the -loss of the vessel, to collect the money which should become, due, on a -policy, by which the vessel
an] freight were insured. 'In the power of attorney it wts recitedthdt it was given as collateral secarity for the payment of
the notes, and whs to be void' on.their payment; on the failure
of which, the plaintiff was to.pay the amount and all expenses,
aid'to return the' residue f'- Aousmaniere. Ox the gist of
March 1821, an additional sum of 700 dollars was loaned, fbr
which a'uote was taken, and similar p6wer'of attorney 'given,
to., sell his interest in the schooner Industry; this-vessel being
also still at sea.
On the 6th of'May1820,. Rousmaniere died intestate and
'insolvent, having paid 200 dollars on account of the notes;
and the plaintiff gave notice of his clair, to the Cbmmission''ers of' Insolve~cy, 'appointed under the atthority of the Ins6lvent Law of Rhode Island. The plaintiff in his bill, alleged,
that; on the. rMturn of the Nereus and Industry, he took pos-

JANUARY TERi, 1828.
(Hunt wi.Rous'maniere's Adm.)

sesion of them, and offered the interest of the intestate in them,
for sale; and the defendants having forj ade the sale, this bill
Was brought to compel them to joinin it.
To this.bill the defendants demurred; and- their demarrer,
was sustained in the Circuit Court; but leave was given tb the
plaintiff to amend. An amended bill was then filed, in which
it was stated, that it was expressly agreed between the parties,
'that Rousmaniere was to give specific security on the Nereus
and Industry, and that he 'offered to executi a mortgageon
them, CounSel was consulted on the -subject, who advised
that the power-o.f attorney, whi*.h was actually executed, should
be taken in -preference to a mortgage, because -it. was equally
valid aid effectual -as a security, and would pr6ent the* necessity of changing thep
*pers
of thp vessels, or of taking pos,ession.of them on their. return to port., These securities were,
it was alleged, -executed .with a full belief, that they would,
and with intention that they-should, give to the plaintiff, as full
and perfect a security, as wouldbe given by a mortgage."
The defend~nts having also demurred to the amended bfll,
the Circuit Court decided in favour of the dmurrer, and dis.missed the bill; and an appeal was entered to. this Court.At the February tession, 1823, this Court tonsidered that tie
appellant might be entitled. to the relief prayed for in Equity,
tbut the respondents were permitted to withdraw 'their demur-rer, and to file an-answer in the Court below. "8 Wheat. 174.
The answer of the defetndants admits the loans of moneyf and
,he delivery of the promissory notes, and'that but two hun'dred dollars were paid, before the death of the intestate. The
execution of the poivers of attorney was also admitted, but
it was denied that 1iossession of' the vesels was taken by the
appellant;, and they alleged their resistance of he attempt to.
take possession of them.
The answer also asserts-ignorance of any agreement ifor a
specific lien on the vessels, except that impprted by the iaigubge of the powersof attorney; that they had heard and believed that the appellint meant to-be concerned, as a partner,
in the voyage of one of the vessels, which was relinquished,
and that afterwards he offered to loan the money on security;
,apon -which the intestate offered to give a mortgage, but the appellant preferred taking the. powers of attorney, to avoid inconvenience, and took the powers' of attorney, by advice of
.counseL The answer also states, that a bill, of sale of the
vessels, -dated
the day before the'death of ihe intestate, by*
-which the vessels were intended to be conveyed to one Bateman, and which the respondents state they had heard, and believed was intended to be exe-uted on the evening of that
day. The answer also alleges ihe-isolvency of Rousmaniere,

SUPREME COURT.
(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.) ,
and that it existed a long time before his death; which they assert must have -been known to the appellant, and that the intestate resorted to impioper modes to keep up his credit.
The evidence taken in the case, consisted of the deposition of Mr. Hazard, the counsel who drew the papers, and in
which he stated, that they were intended by both parties to
have the effect of 'a specific lien or mortgage, and he advised them they would have that effect; and also the deposition of
Mr. Merchant, to show that the appellant admitted that the
notive'by which he was induced to make the loan, ,was to compensate Rousmaniere for the disappointment sustained? by his
not uniting'with him in a voyage of one of. his vessels; 'and,
accordingly, an agreement was made, by which the appellant
was to let Rousm~4iere have a sum of money, and that he was
to give a bill of sale of a.certain vessel; but that afterwLrds
he exfused to take the same, on account of the. ineonvenience
and difficulties which might attend" the' same; and that he had
consulted with Mr, Hazard, upon the subject, who told hm,
that he could or would draw, an ii revocable power of attor.ney to-sell, which 'would do as wel', or words to that efet;
and which was accordingly done.
The Circuit Court pronounced a decree, declaring, that the
appellant had no 'specific lien or security upon either of the
vessels, and no equity to be relieved respecting them, and
dismissing the bill, with costs; from .which decree, anappeal
was entered to this Court.
On the pat of the appellants, it was contended, that the
%tereeought to be reversed, and a decree entered for the appellant.
That the answers to the bill do not respond to the only material facts in the cause; it being fully poved, that the powers
of attorney were intended to have the effect of a specific lien,
the appellant is entitled to the relief he seeks, upon the principles laid down in the former decisions of this Court.
The case waS aigued by Mr. Kimball and Mr. Webster,
for the apnellant and by Mr. Wirt, Attornty General, an4
Mr. Robbirs, for the appellees,
For the appllaht- '
The Court, in -concluding their opinion in the former case
between -these parties, as reported in 8 Wheat. 174, use
this- language-" We- find no case which we think precisely
in point, and are unwilling, where the effect of the instrument,
, the power of attorney, is acknowledged to have been entirely
misunderstood by both parties, to say, that a Court of Equity
will not grant relief." In the opinion of the Court, the plaintiff
having been, in equity, entitled to the relief he prayed for the
principal question now is2 one of fact.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.
(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.)
It is.insisted, that no essential averment in the bill, is cojitradicted by the answer.
The only real difference between them, relates to the possession of the vessels.
It is not denied, thot it was the express agreement and deliberate intention of the parties, that the plaintiff shouWd have
a specific security; the defendants only say they -are ignorant
of this fact.
The testimony of the plaintiff, .then, is sufficient to entitle
him to a decree, unless the defendants have introduced other
facts, that are clearly inconsistent with it.
I Admitting the origin of the loan to the intestate, to be shch
as the appellees say they have heard, and believe itto be; "thisr
may be reconciled with the alleged intention of the parties, that
one should give, and theother receive, a, specific security.
, If the appellant did assign the reasons which the defendants
say they hive heard, and bdieve, he assigned, fpr not taking
a bill of sale, that circumstance does not contradict the testimony of the plaintiff's witness. Arefusal to take a specific
legal security, surely, does not necessarily exlude an agree-'
ment for a specific equitable.security. The fact mentioned in
the answer, may import simply a reference to a legal right, as
those stated.by the plaintiff's witness, manifestly do to an equi
table right. There is, then, no contradiction apparent. As to
the bill of sle, found among RoAsmaniere's papers, it obvi.
ously discloses a design to commit a fraud,
None of the distinct averments contained in the answer, are in
.opposition to the allegations of the bill; an d.none of them,
with the exception of the bill of sale are derived, from the
personal knowledge of the d efendant;.
The general rule of equity, therefore, that declares the testi
mony of a single witness against a positive averment of the answer, to be insufficient for a decree in favpur of the plaintiff,
does not comprehend the present case. It does not apply,
where the answer contains no direct denial, nor where the facts
stated, are not, or cannot, be within the defendants' own knowledge. But if it did embrace this causes the answer ought
not to prevail against this bill,
Where a single witness, in support of the bill, is 4orroborated by eirevni.9tances, it is sufficient for a decree in favour of.
the plaintifft; and this is the fact in this.case.' 9 Crana, 160.
Clarke's Ex'rs. vs. Van Reymsdyk, Cooth vs. Jackson. 6 Fes.
40. Heifer vs. Miller, 2 Munf.48. Walton vs. Hobbs. 2.4tk. 19,
"iase 17, Hunt vs. Ten Eyck. 2 John. Mt . 92.
The power of attorney was a part of plaintiff's security;
and a letter of attorney, that is part of a security, is irrevo.
cable. This was so declared, in"the former case of Hunt vs,

6i

SUPREME COURT.
(Hunt w. Rousmtniere's Adrn.)

Rousmaniere, also'in Walsh vs. Whitcomb, in 2 EaP. N. P. 1.
'566.
It has been ruled, that the answer containing the denial, may
also' contain in. itself the circumstances, giving greater credit
to a single witness, sufficient for a decree against the defendant. In a case cited by Chancellor Kent, in Hunt v8. Ten Eyck,
2Joh. Chaceriy Reports, 92 ; the fact mentionef in the answer,.
ttM the plaintiff declined kdng ,a bill of sale, from an unwillingness to have his name appear on the vessel's papers, &c.,
and took, upon advice of counsel, a letter of attorney in preference, implies of itself, that a specific security was meditated
by the parties; and tends to show, that the plaintiff took the
power of attorney, on the recommendation or assurance of
his legal adviser, that it'would constitute a security as effectual as abill of sale; insuring theadvantages, without producing
the inconveniences of that conveyance. The circumstances
of the appellant declining, to take the: bill. of sale, for the
reasons 'assigned, and that'the powers of attorney were intended to give a specific lien, come in aid of the appellant's witnesa, and he has also an auxiliary in Merchant; evidence, and
the circumstances altogether,. establish the fact, that a avedfic
security was designed and agreed upon. It is an elementary
principle of equity, that where parties have, by contract, 'given
a right, but have, not provided a sufficient remedy, Courts of
Equity will interfere.
Where the remedy is void in law, a Court of Eqhity has decreed not only against simple contract, but against judgment
creditors. Burgh v8. Francis, cited in Finch vs. Earl of WinLns. 279, and Taylor vs. Wheeler, 2 Ve. 564
chester, 1 P
-case 513.
But there are no judgment creditors here to beaffected by a
decree in favour of the plaintiff.
". toblanme, in the Erat volume of his Treatise upon
Equity, 'suggests, in a 'note, "age. S8, whether, in the case
Qf Burgh vs. Francis, the secQnd incumbfance had not notice
of the former incu'mbrance. But nothing can be collected from
the case as reported, in favour ot this suggestion. The presumption is entirely the other way. The plaintiff agreed and
'contracted for a lien on the Vessels, and the other creditors of
Rousnalfiere trusted to his general credit, -and are entitled only
to vhat property belonged to him, subject to the lien, which
a Court of Equity would have enforced against Rousmaniere
himself.
It was the manifest intentioi of the parties to create a spe&
eific lien. 'But to accomplish their object they unhappily
adopted an instrument the legal effect of which, they misunderstood. It was a: mutual mistake, and this C6ur't-appeap" st-

JANUARY TERM, 128.

7

(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.)

ready to have decided, that, notwithstanding this mistake in"
law, the plaintiff is entitled to relief.
The case is one of an agreement between parties, which has
not been performed, an agreement for a specific security for a

loan of money; this has been proved by the testilnony of one
witness, corroborated by circumstances, and not denied in the
answer. It is not, therefore, within the influence of the principle, which requires something beyond the testimony of one
witness, to sustain the allegations of a bill which are denied
in the answer. It is a case of mutual errors, as to the law,
gnd not one where parties have run their risks of the law. It

is an agreement to lend money, not on a note, but om the vessels; and if the Court would enforce the lien against-Upasmaniere, they should do it nowf as the creditors are not third
persons, but have no other right than he would have 'if alive.
For the appellees-The whole of the proceedings, and the decisions of the
Court below, upon the case, will be found in 2 Mason'sRep. 244.
8 TIen., 174, and 3 Mason's Bep. 294. It is now a question
between creditors, and is, whether the Court will attach a lien
wlhen none'existed? It is a case where a party havinig rejected a security, now avers, and asks the Court to give him
the security he refused. The, allegations in the bill are denied
by the answer, and they are proved by one witness only.
This is insufficient,' and such evidence is dangerous,. Poole
vs. Cabanes et al. 8 T. Rep. 328. Upon the question, Whether the Court will relieve against a mistake in law,-in 2
Johns. Gases in Chancerj, 51. 60, this was ex)pressly decided
not to be within the power of a Court of Equity.
Taking the fact to be as stated by him, the appellant is not
entitled to relief.
This Court have decided, in this' case, that'the agreement
nde by the appellant with Rousmaniere, created no lien upon
the vessels in question, though they intended it hould, and
thought it would'create a lien; that RQusmaniere parted with
no title; that the plaintiff acquired none in the vessels. The
reason why this -decision did not finally dispose of this case;
was, that the Court entertained a doubt, whether this intention
to create a lien, which was not, in fact, created, did not constitute a ground of relief in the case. And this case stands now
to be argued upon this doubt.
The question is, whether a Court of Equity can, relieve
against a mistake made by the parties in making their contract,
not in matter of fact, but in matter of law, and relieve, to the
prejudice of a title vested by'law in third parties? Whether
equity can create a title where none does exist, and destroy a
titlo where one does exist? This is beyond the province and

SUPREME COURT.
(Hunt ai. Rousmaniere's Adm.)

power of equity; beyond the legitimate power of a sovereign
legislator, and can only be done by that despotic power, which
is limited only by its own will. If the parties make their agree-,
ment, and make it exactly as they intended, and it creates no
title, will the Court make the title.?
If it should be asked, why a Court of Equity should relieve against a mistake in matter of fact, and not in matter of
law, the reason is obvious. 3.hen a mistake of fact is committed by the parties, in making their contract, the mistake is
corrected, or supposed to be corrected, and the relief is given according to that corrected statement. Equity, then,, does
what the law would have done, had there been no such mistake.
The.Court.keeps to its office of merely pronouncing the law
upon the fact, as it was understood, and meant to be, between'
the parties. But when a mistake of tb law is made by the
parties in making their contract, if relief is given, it is given,
not upon the fact, as understood and meant .by the parties,
but upon the onception of the parties as to the legal effedt of
that fact. No mistake is corrected, or supposed to be corrected, that relief might be giveri according to law; but the mistake is to stand,. and the law is to be bent and accommodated to
it. Equity is to consider the law not to be what it is, .but what
-the parties conceived it to be, and to decree relief accordingly.
-It is a principle of jurisprudence,'that every one in his acts
.and contracts -is presumed to be conversant with the law; or,
if ignorant, that he is to be made to abide the. consequences.
This principle i's essential, if not to"the 6xistence. at least to
the well being of society.
Cited, the case of Lepard vs. 'Vernon, reported 9 Vezey 4Beam, 51-9-3..
But suppose that a mistake of the law was a general ground
of relief, would it avail the plaintiff, in this case? Here is only
equity on his side; but on the other, there is law and equal
equity combindd: And it is a settled principle, that a naked
equity, is never to prevail against both law and equity. The
appellant never having acquired any title to the vessels, by his
agreement, nor by any proceedings under it, has only a naked
equity. He parted with his money, trusting to his agreement,
as constituting a security therefor, upon the vessels. This is
his equity. The title of the vessels being Rousmaniere's, to
his death$ at his death-passed to his legal representatives, who.
the respondents are. The legal title, then, is in them. His
estate being insolvent, is in them as trustees,*for his general
creditors; and, being greatly insolvent, they are sufferers, as
well as the appellant; trusting to his property for their indemnity. In their equity he shares equally with them, an*d has received it; but by-agreement to be without prejudice to this suit.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

9

(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.)
But from his equity they are excluded. The Court will take
notice, that, by the laws of Rhode. Island, no priorities or preferences take place among creditors, in the distribution of intestate estates; whether solvent or insolvent.
A naked equity is never to prevail against equal equity, and
title, combined.
The respondents are the creditors, for they hold in trust'for
the creditors. If, then, it were to. be admitted, that, if mistake
of the law was a principle of relief subject to this -limitation,
that it does not extend, and cannot be extended, .to a stranger
to the contract in which the mistake was committed; this case
does not come. within the principle; for it is excluded by this
limitation.
Mr. Justice WAsHinGTOxr delivered, the opinion of the
Court.This case wat before this Court inthe year 1823, and is reported in 8 Wheaton, 174, and- was then arguied at great length,' by
the counsel concerned in it. After full consideration, it was
decided, that the power of 'attorney, given by Rousmaniere, the
intestate, to the appellant, Hunt, authorizing him to make and
execute a bill of sale of three-fourths of the -Nereus and of the
Industry, to himself, or to any other persoi, and in the event
of their being lost, to collect the money which should become
due under a policy upon them and their freight; was a naked.
power, not coupled with an interest, which, though irrevocaWe by R9usmaniere, in his lifetime, expired on his death.
That this species of security was agreed upofi and given
under a misunderstanding, by the parties, of its legal character, was conceded in the argument of the cause, by the bar and
bench; and the second question, for the consideration of the
Court, was, whether a Cburt of Equity could afford relief ih
suich*a case, by directing a new security, of a different character, to be given; or by decreeing that to be done, which the parties supposed. would have been effected by the instrument.
agreed upon?, After anexamination of the cases, applicable
to the gexieral question, it was stated, by the Chief Justice, who
delivered the opinion of the -Court that none of them asserted
the nalked principle, that relief could be granted, on the ground.
of 'ignorance' of law,- or decided, that a plain and acknowledged mistake,. in law, was beyond the reach of a Court of
Equity. The conclusion, to which he cam44 is expressed in
the following terms
"We find no case, which we think precisely in point; and
are unwilling, where the effect of the instrument is acknowledged to. have been 'entirely misunderstood, by both parties,
fo say, that aCourt of Equity is incapable of affording relief.
13
VoT.. 1.

SUPREME COURT.
(Hunt vs. Rosmaniere's Adm.)

The decree was, accordingly, reversed; butthe case baing
one in which creditors were concerned, the Court, instead of
giving a final, decreeon the demurrer, in favour- of the plaintiff, directed the cause to be'remanded, that the Circuit Court
might permit the defendants to withdraw their demurrer, and
to answer'the bill.
After the cause was refturned to that Court, the demurrer
'was withdrawn, and an answer was filfd, in which the defendants, after admitting the loans, mentioned in the bils, by the
plaintiff to their intestate, and the notes, given for th sane, by
the lattcr, and their non-payment; assert their ignorance of any
agreement, between the plaintiff and their intestate, that the
former should have a specific security, other than the powers
of atorney, to sell vessels and to collect the proceeds, or, the
amount of the policies, in case they should be lost; but express their beliel that the powers of attorney were selected by
the plaintiff, in preference to the other securities, which were
offered by the intestate. The answerF further states, that the,
estate of RQusmaniere is greatly insolvent, and had been so before his' death; that the plaintiff had exhibited and proved
his demand, as stated in his bill, before the Commissioners
of Insolvency, duly appointed, upon the estate of Rousmaniere;
and. that his dividend thereon declared, or to be declared the
defendants were; and would be ready, to pay, according to law.
The principal deposition, taken in -the cause, is that of'
Benjamin Hazard, counsellor at law; who deposes, that he
drew 'the powers of attorney, annexed to the original bill.That on the day the first power was executed, Hunt and Rousmaniere came to his office, when the latter stated, that the forIner had loaned, or 'agreed to loan, to him, a sum ofmoney,
upon security to be given by him, on his interest in the brig Nereus, and that he was desirous the security should be as ample
and available to Hunt, as it could be made. That he wished,
and was ready, to give a bill of sale of the property, or a mortgage on it, or any other security, which Mr. Hunt might
prefer.' Both the parties declared that they had called upon
the witness, to request him to draw the writings, and to 'obtain his opinion, as to the kind of instrumetit which would
give the most perfect security to the lender. That the deponent then told the, parties, that a, bill 'of sale, or mortgage,
would be good security, but that an irrevocable power of attorney, such h- was afterwards executed, would be as effictual and good security, as either of the others; and would pre-.
vent the necessity of changing the vessel's papers, and of
Hunt's taking possession of the 'vessel, upon her arrival from
sez. That the parties then requested him to draw such an in-

JANUARY TERM, 18.8.

11

(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.)
strument, as, in his opinion, would -most effectually and fully
secure Mr. Hunt; and that the plaintiff frequently asked him,
whilst he Was drawing the power, and -after he had finished,
and read it to the parties, if he was quite certain-that the power would be as safe and available to him, as a bill of sale, or
mortgage, and that upon -his assurances that it was, it -vas
then executed.
The witness then proceeds to express his
opinion, from his knowledge df the parties, and from" their
declaration at the time, that Rousmaniere would'readily have.
given an absolute bill of sale of the property, or any other
security which could have been asked; and that Hunt would
not have accepted the -one whikh was afterwards executed, if
he had not considered it'to be as extensive and perfect a secarity,'in all respects, as an absolute bill of sale; and he adds,
more positively, that such was the understanding and agreement of both the parties.
It appears, by the testimony of this witness, that he drew
the power of attorney, concerning the Industry, for securing
the second loan made by the plaintiff to Rousmaniere, knd
that the circumstances attending, that transaction, were essentially the same as those which have been stated, in respect to
the first loan.
We find another deposition in. the record, wvhich deserves
to be noticed, as it consists of declarations, made by the
pl;intiffl after the powers of attorney were executed, and
may serve, in some measure,to explain the more positive testimony given by Mr. Hazard. This witness, Willicm Merchant,
deposes, that, after the decease of Rdusmaniere, the plaintiff
stated to him,. and to a Mr. Rhodes, that in consequence of
his declining to engage in an enterprise in one of the vessel
of Rousmaniere, to which he had at one time consented, and of,
the complaints of Rousmaniere, on that account, he was induced to offer to Rousmaniere a loan of money. That an agreement was accordingly made, by which- he, Hunt, was to let
Rousmaniere haNt-a certain'sum on, loan, and Rousmaniere
was to give him a bill of sale of a certain vessel; but that
afterwards, Hunt, reflecting, that if he took that .security, he
would have to take out papers at the custom-house, in his own
name, be subject to give bonds for the vessel, and perhaps be'
made liable for breaches of law committed by others,'he consulted with Mr. Hazard upon the subject; wh6 told him that
he could, or. would, draw an irrevocable power of attorney,
to sell Which, would do as well, and which -Nvas accordingly
done.
The cause coming on to be heard, in.the Court below, and
that Court being of opinion, thatI tht plaintiff had then no
lien,.or specific security upon these vessels, and no equity to

SUPREME 'COURT.
(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Admn.)
*have such lien or security created against the general creditors
of Rousmaniere, dismissed the- bill; from which decree, the
cause has been brought, by appea, to this Court.
It must be admitted, that the case, a~s it is now presented to
the Court, is'not materially variant from that which we formerly had to consider; except in relation to the rights of the
general creditors, against the insolvent estate of a deceased
debtor, in opposition to the equity which a particular creditor
seeks, by this bill, to set up. The allega'tions of the bills.
filed in this cause, which were, on the former occasion, admitted by the demurrer to be true, are now fully proved, by the
testimony taken in the cause.
Before proceeding to state the general question, .to which
the facts in this case give rise, or the principles of equity,
which apply to it, it will be necessary, distinctly, to ascertain,
what was the real agreement concluded upon between the plaintiff and the intestate, the performance of which, on the pLrt
of the' latter, was intended to be secured by the powers of
attorney? Was it that Rousmaniere should, in addition to
his notes for the money agreed to be loaned to him bythe plaintiff, give a specific and available security on the Nereus and
the Industry.-or, was the particular kind of security selected
by the plrtie:p and did it conistitute a part' of the agreement?
It is most o ivious, from the plaintiffs own statement, in his
amended bill, :as well a! from the depositions appearing in the
record, that the agreement was not closed, until the interview
between the parties to it, with Mi. Hazard, had taken place
The amended bill states,' that the specific security which
R ousmaniere offered to give, was a mortgage of the two vessels, for which irrevocable powers of attorney were substituted, by the advice of Mr. Hazard, and for reasons, which it
would seem, were approved of and acted upon, by the plaintiff.
From the testimony of Mr. Merchant, it would appear, that the
security proposed by Rousmaniere, was a bill of sale of the vessels, which the plaintiff declined accepting, for reasons of his
own, uninfluenced by any suggestions of Mr. Hazard, who
merely proposed the powers of attorney as a substitute for the
other forms of secuity .which had been offered by Rousmaniere. The difference between these statements is not vefy
material, since it is apparent from both of them, .that the
proposed security, by irrevocable powers of attorney, was selected by the plaintiff, and incorporated into the agreement, by
the assent of both the parties.' The powers of attorney do not
contain, nor do they profess to contain, the agreement of the
parties; but was a mere execution of that agreement, so far as
it stipalated to give to the plaintiff a specific security on the two
vessels, in the mode selected and approved of by the parties, to

JANUARY TERM, 1820.

iS

(Hunt vs. Rousrnaniere's Adm.)
which extent, it was a complete consummation of the agreement. Such was the opinion of thIs Court upon the former
discussion of this. cause in the year 1823, and such is its present opinion. Upon this state of the case, the general question to be decided, is the same now that it formerly was, and
is that which has already been stated.
There are certain principles of dquity, applicable to this question, which, as general primciples, we hold to be incontrovertible.
The first is, that where an instrument is drawn and executed,
which professes, oris intended, to carry into execution, an agreement,'whether in writing or by parol, previously entered into, but
wbich, by mistake of the draftsman, either as to fact or law,
does iiot fulfil, or which violates the manifest intention of the
parties to the agreement, equity will correct the mistake, so as
to produce a conformity of the instrument to the agreement.
The reason is obvious-The execution of agreements, fairly
and legally entered into, is one of the peculiar branches of
equity jurisdiction ; and if the instrument which is intendedto execute the agreement, be, from any cause, insufficient, for
that purpose, the agreement remains as much unexecuted, as
if one of the parties had refused, altogether, to comply with
his engagement; and a Court of Equity will, in 'the -exercise
of its acknowledged jurisdiction, afford relief in the one
ease, as well as in the other, by compelling the delinquent
party fully to perform his agreement, according to the terms
of it, and to the manifest intention of the parties. So, if the'
mistake exist, not in the instrument -which is intended to give
effect to the agreement, but in the agreement itself, and is
clearly proved -to have been the result of ignorance of some
material fact, a Court of Equity will, in general, grant relief,
according to the nature of the particular case in which it issought Whether these principles, or either. of them, apply
to the presentcase, must, of course, depend upon the real
character of the agreement under consideration. If it has
been correctly stated, it follows, that the instrument, by means
of which the specific security was to be'given, was selected by
the parties to the agreement, or rather by the plaintiff; Rousmaniere having proposed- to give a mortgage, or bill of
sale of the vessels, -which the plaintiff after consideration,
and advice of counsel, thought propel to reject, for reasons
which were entirely satisfactory to himself. That the .form
of the instrument, so chosen by the plaintiff, and prepared
by the person who drew it,, conforms, in every respect, to the
one agreed upon, is not even asserted in the bill , or in the. aigument of counsel. The avowed object of the plaintiff was,
to obtain a valid security, but in such a manner, as that th(
legal interest in the property should remain with tRousma-"

14

SUPREME COURT.

(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.)
niere, so that the plaintiff might be under no necessity to take
bfit papers at the custom-house, in his own name, and might
not be subject to give bondi for the vessels, or to liabilities
for breaches of law, committed by those who were intrusted
with the management of them. That the general intention of
the parties was, to provide a security, as effectual as a mortgage of the vessels would be, can admit of no doubt; and if
such had been their agreement, the insufficiency of the instruments, to 'effect that object, which were afterwards prepared, would have furnished a ground for the interposition of a
Court of Equity, which the representatives of. Rousmaniere
could not easily have resisted., But the plaintiff was not satisfied to leave the kind of' security which he was willing to receive, undetermined; having finally made up his mind, by the
advice of his counsel, not to accept of a mortgage, or bill of
sale, in nature of a mortgage. He thought it safest, therefore,
'to designate the instrument; and, having deliberately done
bo, it met the view of both parties, and was ,as completely
incorporated into their agreement, as were the notes of hand
for the sum intended to be secured. In coming to this determination, it is not pretended that the plaintiff was misled by
ignorance of any fact, connected with the agreement which he
was about to conclude. If, then, the agreement was not found-.
ed in a mistake of any material fact, and if it was executed
in strict conformity with itself; we think it would be unprecedented, for a Court of Equity to decree another security to
be given, not only different from that which had been agreed
upon, but one which had been deliberately considered and rejected by the party now asking for relief; or 6. treat the case,
as if such other security had in fact been agreed upon and executed. Had Rousmaniere, after receiving the money agreed
to be loaned to him, refused to give an irrevocable power. of
attorney, but offered to execute a mortgage of the vessels, no
Court of Equity could have compelled the 'plaintiff to accept
the security so offered. Or, if he .had totally refused to execute the agreement, and the plaintiff had filed his bill, pray-.
ing that the defendant might be compelled to execute a mortgage instead of an irrevocable power of attorijey.; 'could that
Cdurt have granted the relief specifically asked for? We think
not. Equity may compel parties to perfom their agreements i
when fairly entered into, according 'to their terms; biut it has
no power to make agreements for parties, and then compel
them to execute the same. The former is a legitimate branch
of its jurisdiction, and in its exercise, is highly beneficial to
society. The latter is without its authority, and the exercise
of it would be not only an vsurpation of power, but would be
highly mischievous in its consequences.

JAN4UARY TERM, 1828.

15

(Hunt vs. Rousmaniere's Adm.)

If the Court could not have compelled the plaintiff to accept,
or Rousmaniere to execute, any other instrument, than the one
which had"been agreed upon between them, the case is in no
respect altered by the death of the latter, and the conisequent
inefficiency of the particular security which 'had been selected; the objection to the relief asked for, being in both cases
the same, namely, that the Court can only enforce the performance of an agreement according to its terms, and to the intention of the parties; and cannot force upon them a different
agreement. That the intention of the parties, to this agreement, was'frustrated, by the happening of an event, not thought
of, probably, by tihem, or by the counsel who was consulted
upon the occasion, is manifest. The kind of security which
was chosen, would have been equally effectual, for the purpose .intended, with a mortgage, had Rousmaniere lived until
the power had been executed; and it may therefore admit of
some doubt, at least, whether the loss of the intended security is to be attributed to a want of foresight, in the parties, oi
to a mistake, of the counsel, in respect t6 a matter of law.
The case will, however, be considered in the latter point of
view.
The question, then, is, ought the Court. to grant the relief
which is asked for, upon the ground of mistake arising frodi
any ignorance of law? We hold the general rule to be, that a
mistake of this character is not a ground for reforming a deed
founded on such mistake; and whatever exceptions there may
be to this rule, they are not only few in number, but they will
be found to have something peculiar in their characters.
The strongest case which was cited and relied upon by the,
appellant's counsel, was that of Landsdown vs. Landsdown,
reported in Mosely. 'Admitting, for the present, the authority
of this case, it is most apparent, from the face of it, that the
decision of the Court might well be supported upon a principle not involved in the question" we are examining. The subject which the Court had to decide, arose out of a.dispute between an heir at law, and a younger member of the family,
who was entitled to an estate descended; and this, question, the
parties agreed to submit to arbitration. The award being
against the heir at law, he executed a deed in compliance with
it, but was relieved against it on the rinciple that he was ignorant of his title.
If the decision of the Court proceeded upon the ground that
the plaintiff was ignorant of the fact that he was the eldest son.
it was clearly a case proper for relief, upon a principle which
has already been considered.
If the mistake was of his legal rights, as heir at law, it is
not going too far to presume, that the opinion of the Court-

"16

SUPREME COURT.

(Hunt %.Rousmaniere'a Adm.)
may have been founded upon the belief, that the heir at law was
i posed upon by some unfair representations of his better informed opponent; or that his ignoraftce of a legal principle,
so universally understood by all,'where the right of primogerniture forms a part of the law of descents, demonstrated a degree of mental imbecility, which might well entitle him to relief. He ' cted, besides, under the pressure.of an award, which
was manifestly repugnant to law, -and for aught that is stated
in this case, .this may have appeared upon the face of it.
But if this case must be considered as an exception from
the generail rule.which has been mentioned; the circumstances Lctending it, do not entitle it, were iy, otherwise unobjectionable, o be respected as an authority, but in cases which
it clodely-resembles. 'There is a cliss of cases which it has
beezi supposed forms an exception from this general rule, bi't
k*hich wilt, be 'found, upon examination, to come within the
ehe whic wks first stated. - The cases 'alluded to, are those in
,which equity -has afforded relief against the representatives of a
deceased obligor, ina joint bond, given for money, lent to both
•the obligors, although such representatives were discharged
at law. The principle-.upon which these cases manifestly proceed, is, that the money being~ lent to both, the law raise" a
promise in both to pay, and equity considers the security of
the. b nd as-being intended, by the parties, to be co-extensive With this implied contract by both to pay the debt.., To
effect this intention, the bond should have been madi joint and
. several ; and the mistake in the form, by which it is made.
joint, is not' in the agreement of the parties, but in the execution 'of it by the draftsmaif. The cases in which the general
,rule- Eas been adhered to, are, many of them, of a character
whiclh strongly test the principle upon which the rule itself is
founded. 'Two or three.only need be referred to. If the obligee, iii a joint bond, by two or more, agree with one of the ob.
ligors, to relieve'him from, his obligation, and does accordingly execute a release, by i nich all the obligors are discharged
at law, 'equti.y will not afford' relief against this -legal consequence, although. the r'lease was given inder a manifest misapprehension of the. legal effect of i-in relation to the other
obligors. , So, in the *case of Worral vs. Jacob, S Merv. 7,
1,
where'a person having a-power of appointment and -revocation, and, under a, mistaken supposition, that a deed might be
altkred or revoked, although no 'power of revocation had been
-reserved, execnted the power of appointment without reserving a pover of revocation; the Court refused to relieve against
the mistake.
TIhe case of Lord Irnham. vs. Child, 1.Bro. C. C. 92, is a
very strong one in support of the- general rule, and 'closely

JANUARY TERMT, 1828.

17

(Hunt v3. Rousmaniere's Adm.)
resembles tme present, in most of the material circumstances
attending it. The object of the suit was to set upi a clause containing a power of redemption, in a deed granting an aljnuity,
which, it was said, had been agreed upon by the parties, but
which, after deliberation, was excluded by consenti from a mistaken opinion, that it would render the contracts usurious. The
Court, notwithstanding the omission manifestly proceeded upon
a misapprehension of the parties as to the law, refused to relieve by establishing the rejected clause. It is not the intention
of the Court, in the case now under consideration, to lay it
down., that there may not be cases in which a Court of Equity
will relieve against a plain mistake, arising from ignorance of
law. But we mean to say, that where the parties, upon deliberation and advice, reject one species of security, and agree to
select another, under a misapprehension of the -law as to the
nature of the security so selected, a Court of Equity will not,
on the ground of such misapprehension, and the insufficiency
of such security, in consequence of a subsequent event, not
foreseen, perhaps, or thought of, direct a new secflrity, of a
different character, to be given, or decree that to be done which
the parties supposed would have been effected, by the instrument which was finally agreed upon.
If the Court would not interfere in such a case, generally,
much less would it do so in favour of one creditor, against
the general creditors of an insolvent estate, whos- equity is, at
least, equal to that of the party seeking to obtain a preference,
and who, in point of law, stand upon the same ground with
himself. This is not a bill asking for a specific performance
of an agreement to execute a valid deed for securing a debt-;
in which case, the party asking relief, would be entitled to a
specific lien; and' the Court would consider the debtor as a
trustee, for the creditor of the property on -vhich the security was agreed to be given.: The agreement has been fully
executed, and the only complaint is, that the agreement itself
was founded uipon a misapprehension of the law, and the prayer'is to be relieved against the consequences of such mistake.
If all other difficulties were out of the way, the equity of the
general creditors to be paid their debts equally with the plaintiff, would, we think, be sufficient to induce the Court to leave
the parties where the law has placed them.

7e deoree is to he afflirmed. with eos[C,

VOL. I

