JANUARY TERM, 1828.

TnE UNITED STATES,. PLAn4TIFFs, IN ERRol,

vs. NIoHOAW

STANSBURY AND EnvARD MORGAn.
The discharge, by the Secretary of the Treasury, of the principal in a
bond to the United States, who is imprisoned under a ca,4a.issued against
him, and who has assigned -all his property for the use of the United
States, does not impair or affect the rights of the Unitcd States to pro.
ceed against sureties for the amount due upon the judgment, and unpaid.
15751

At Common Law, the release of a debtor whose person is in execution, is
a release of the judgment itself. The law will not permit proceedings
by a cfeditor at the same time against the person and estate of his debtor, arid where an election has been made to take the person, it presumes
satisfaction, if the person be voluntarily released. {575}
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
distfict of Maryland.

This was an actibn of debt, broughtin the Circuit Court of

the United States for the district of Maryland, at May Term

1825, to recover 3067 dolrs, being the debt, damages, costs,
and charges, contained in a ,certain judgment between the same
parties, recovered by the United States in the District Court
of Maryland, 'at March'Jerm-1819. The original juidgment
was rendered upon a joint and several bond of these defendants, given for duties on an importation by Sheppard, and was
rendered for 3050 dollars debt, and seventeen dollars damages,
costs, and charges. The declaration in this case-was in the
usual form, containing averments that the said judgment still
remains in full force and effect, not in any wise annulled, reversed or vacated-that the said United States have not obtained any satisfaction of or upon the said judgment, and that the
said defendants have not yet paid the simi of 3067 dollars, or
any part thereof; but to pay the same or any part thereof, they

have and each of them hath hitherto wholly refused, &c.
The writ in this case was served upon Stansbury and MorThe two former appeared,

gan only, and not upon Sheppard.
.ad pleaded in bar of this action: that they were sureties for
Sheppard in the bond upon which the said judgment was recovered. That after the said judgment was recovered, and before this suit was commenced, Sheppard was taken and impr~isoned by virtue of a capias ad satisfadiendum, issued upon said
judgment, and discharged from prison by order of the Secretary of the Treasury, under the Act of Congress passed on
th 6th June 1798, on condition that he should pay the costs, and
assignand convey tQ the use of the United States, all his property,
real, personal, and mixed, by an instrument approved by the

574

SUPREME COURT.

(The United States vs. Stansbury et al.)
lien'District Attorney of the United States for that district;
winch order of the Secretary is set forth literally in the plea.
The plea then avers, that the said Sheppard did assign and
,convey all his estate, &c., by an instrument approved by the
District Attorney, and did pay the costs according to the conditions imposed by the Secretary, and was thereupon voAuntarily relefsed and discharged from the said execution, by the
said Secretary, without the co'nsent aid against the will of them
-the said Stansbury and Morgan.-Therefore they pray judgment, &tc. To this plea, there was a general demurrer and
joinder, and judgment vas rendered for the defendants, pro
forna, in the Circuit Court, upon which judgment the United
States have-brought a writ of error to this Court.
For the United States,'it was contended, that the judgment
ought to be reversed, and -judgment retidered for the United
States.
* The defendants in error claimed1. That the discharge of Sheppard from the execution of
the plaintiff, operated as a release to all the defendants.
2. That the defendants, as sureties, were exonerated by the
compromise made with the principal without their concurrence.
- S. .That' at all events, the, plaintiff cannot have judgment

upon the pleadings in this cause, as the demand embraces the
whole amount of the judgment in the District Court.
The case was argued by Mr. Wirt, Attorney General for the
Itnited States, no counsel attending on the part of the defendants in error.
.The following cases were cited by Mr. Wirt, in the course
of his argument. Dean vs. Newhall, 8 . R. 168. Rowley
vs. Stoddard, I .John.2006. 5 Co. Rep. 86, b. Foster vs. Jackson,
Ibid. 52. Vejus vs. Aldwick, 4 Burr, 9482. Jacques vs. Withy,
1 T. R. 557, Tanner vs. Hague, 7 T. R. 420. Blackburn
vs.' Stupert, 2 East, 243.- Clark vs, Clement, 6 T. R. 526.
M'Lean*vs. Whiting, 8 John. Rep. 339. Hayling vs. Mulhall,
_,Ld.
Ray. 1072. 5 East; 147.
2 Bi. Rep. 1955. 2 4hwe, "94.
Hurst vs. The United States, I Gal. 39. 1 Saund. 530. 1 Chit-

ty, 107-8.

Mr. Chief Justice MRasi_2L .delivered the opinion of the
Court.This was an action of debt on a judgment which had been
rendered in favour of the United States, against Thomas Shep-*
pard, and the two defendants in, error. The marshal returned,
as to Sheppard, non est inventus. 'The other two defendants
pleaded that they were sureties to Sheppard, in the bond on
which the formep judament was rendered. that the United

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

575

(The United States vs. Stansbury et aL.)
States took out a ca. sa. on that judgment, against Sheppard,
by virtue of which he was imprisoned; whereupon William H.
Crawford, the Secretary of the Treasury of thd United States,
released the said Sheppard from execution, on his paying costs,
and conveying all his property, real, personal, and mixed, to
the United States; with which condition, it is admitted, Shep,
pard complied. The United States demurred, and the Circuit
Court gave judgment on the demurrer, proforna, for the defendants; which judgment is now before this Court on a-writ
of error.
It is not denied, that at Common Law, the'release of a debtor whose person is in execution, is a release of the judgment
itself. Yet the body is not satisfaction in reality, but is held
as the surest means of coercing satisfaction. The law will not
permit a man to proceed at the same time against the person
anq estate of his debtor; and when the creditor has elected to
take the person, it presumes satisfaction,-if the person be voluntarily released. The release of the judgment is, therefore,
the lqgal consequence of the voluntary discharge of the person
by the creditor.
This being the positive operation of the Common Law, it
may unquestionably be changed by statute.
The United States contend, that it is changed by the Act providing for the relief of persons imprisoned for debts due to the
United States. That Act authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury, on receiving a conveyance of the estate of a debtoi confined
in jail at the suit of the United States, or any collateral security,
to the use of the United Statesito discharge such debtor from his
imprisonment under such execution; and he shall not be again
imprisoned for the said debt; "but the judgment shall remain
good and sufficient. in"law, and may be satisfied out of" any estate, which may then or at any time afterwards belong to the
debtor."
The sole duty of the Court is to construe this statute according to its words, and the intent' of the legislature. Did, Congress design to discharge the sureties or to release the judgment?
The Act is "For tle relief of persons imprisoned for debts,
due to the United States," not for the relief of their sureties;
and does not contain a single expression conducing to the opinion, that the mind of the legislature was directed towards the
sureties, or'contempl-ted their discharge. The only motive for
the Act, being to relieve debtors who surrender all their prgperty, from the then useless punishment.of imprisohment;
there can be no motive for converting this Act of mere humanity, into the discharge of-other debtors, whose condition it
does not in any measure deteriorate. If the Act produces thi'

SUPREME COURT.
(The-United Statesv. Stansbuy et al.)
effect, it is an effect contrary to its intention, occasioned by a
technical rule, Originating in remote ages; which has never
heen applied to a statutory discharge of the person.
But the language of the statute has guarded against th's re!
sult. It has: expressly delared, that the judgment shall remain good and sufficient in law. - How can this Court say that
it is not good. an&c is hot sufficie it? If' it be good and sufficient, for what purpose is it so? Certainly, for the purposes for
which it was rendered-to enable the United States to proceed
regularly upon it, ;s upon othei. judgments; with the single
cxception, made by the Act itself. The voluntary discharge of
a debtor, by his creditor, is a release of 'the judgment, because
such'is the law. - But in this case,, the legislature has altered
the taw. It has declared that the discharge of a debtor in the
forms prescribed, shall amount solely to a liberation of the person-not to a release.ofthe judgment. That shall remain good
and suffiient. Were Courts to say, that, notwithstanding
this provision, the judgment is released, it would amount to a
declaration that' a tedhnicatrule, in the Common Law, founded
in a presumption growing out of the simplicity of' ancient
times, hnd. not always consistent with the fact, is paramount
to the legislative power. It would in fact, be to repeal the-statute. It would unquestionably be.to defeat the object of the
legislature; since it would be no very hardy assertion to say,
that, if the discharge of the person in custody discharged the
other obligors, the.imprisoned debtor would never be released,
while the debt remaincd unpaid; unless the insolvency extended to all the obligors.
The second point made by the. counsel. tor the, defendants,
that the sureties are exonerated by the- compromise made with
the principal without their concUrrence, is the same in principe with that which has beei considered. No -ompromise of
the debX has-been made. The course prIescribed by 'the law has
been pursued. The whole property-of the imprisoned debtor
has been surrendered, and on receiving It, his person has been
discharged. The Act of Congres's declares, that the judgment
shall still remain in eorce. If th'e creditor had entered into a
compromise" not prescribed by law, or had given any discharge
not directed by statute, the question might have been open for
argument. But, -While the whole transaction is within the precise limits marked'out by law, it cannot -produce a result'difeetly"opposite to that hiutended by the statute. The only doubt
which can be suggested.respecting the intent, of the legislature,
.iscreated by th6 last words of the sentence, declaring, that the
judgment shall reniaii.i good and sufficient in law. 'They are "1and
may be tatisfied out of any estate whiclv uTay tjien, or at any
time afterwaras belong tb th- debtor."" These words are cer-

JANUARY TERM, 18-,8.

577

(The United States vs. Stansbury et al.)
tainly useless; and may be supposed to indicate an idea, that
it could be satisfied out of the estate of the debtor only. That
as they are not required to render that estate liable, they may
be understood to limit the right of the creditor to obtain sati, faction from the estate of any other person. We do not howeroi think this the correct construction. Te
words are
considered as mere surplusage, not as limiting the rights of the
United States to proceed against all those who are bound by
tlhe judgment.
We think, then, that the Circuit Court ought to have sustained the demurrer; and that the judgment which 'overrules
it ought to he reversed. But considering the plea, and the manner in which the'cause has been brught up, the Court will
not direct an absolute judgment to be -entered for the United'
States; but will reverse the judgment and remand the same for
further proceedings, that the Circuit Court may give leave
to the defendants to plead.
This cause came on &c. on consideration whereof, It is adjudged and ordered, that the judgment of said Circuit Court
'in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed ajad annulled,
and that the cause be remanded, that the said Circuit Court
may give leave to the defendants'to plead.

VOL. I

