JANUARY TERM, 1898.

JOSEPH PEARSON AND ROBERT Y. BRENT, EXECUTORS or ROBER-1
BRENT, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, vs. THE BAxn OF
'fHe METROPOLIS,

DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

In an action against the endorser of a promissory note, made " negotiable
in the Bank of the Metropolis," the declaration averred a demand of the
.ame, at that bank. No other notice of the non-payment of the note, was
,cnt to the endorser, but that left for him at the Bank of the Metropolis;

and it was proved, that there was an agreement, by parol, with the endorser, as to other notes discounted previously, by the bank, for his accom.

modation, that paymcnt, and demand of payment, should be made at the
bank; the endorser residing a considerable distance from the bank.
The Court held, that parol evidence was admissible, to show the agreement

relative to the place where payment of the note was to be demanded ;
although the agreement did not appear on the face of the note. Such an
agreement, is a circumstance extrinsic to the contract made by the note;
and its proof, by parol, is regular. 192}
The endorser of such a note, is himself bound by the contract made by the
drawer, and by the established and known usage of the bank. 190}
Where it was omitted to allege in the declaration on the note, a demand of
payment on the person of the maker, but it averred a demand at the
bank, "where the note was negotiable," such averment in the declaration, could not be true, unless there was an agreement between the par.
ties, that tle demand should be made there; and the averment must
have been proved at the trial, or the plaintiff could not have obtained a
verdict and judgment; and, after a verdict, the judgment will be sustained. 1931
THIS action was instituted in the Circuit Court, for the
county of Washington, by the Bank of the Metropolis, on a
promissory note, dated May e26th 1819, drawii by George A.
Carroll, and endorsed by V. Carroll and Robert Brent, for
1100 dollars, payable at sixty days, and negotiable at the Bank
of the Metropolis. The declaration set out the note, and averred a demand of payment, at the Bank of the Metropolis. In
support of the issue, on the part of the plaintiffs in error,
evidence was offered, that the accommodation given by the
said bank, to George A. Carroll, on a note similarly drawn
and endorsed with the present, was given by the bank, about
three years before the date of the note, oh which the suit was
brought, and was given with the knowledge of the endorsers
thereon, and in consequence of their-solicitation: and for the
purpose of proving, that it was the agreement and understanding of the bank, and IV. Carroll, at the time of agreeing to
give him this accommodation, that the note to be discounted
should be payable at the Bank of the Metropolis, and the notes
severally taken, for the renewal of such notes, and for the continuance of the said accommodation, should be in like manner
M
VOL. 1.

90

SUPREME COURT.

(Brent's Executors vs. The Bank of ile Metropolis.)
payable, and demanded, at the bank; they offered to prove, by
parol evidence, that the said Carroll did not reside in the
district, after the winter in which W. Carroll lived in the city
of Washington-and that that winter, was the winter of 1817;
and that after such time, said George A. Carroll occasionally
visited the city, and resided at Washington, in Maryland,
about twenty miles from the city, and at Port Tobacco; and
that many of the notes, taken for the continuance of the said
accommodation, were expressed to be payable at the bank;
and that all notes, previous to the one now sued on, were there
demanded, and such demand acquiesced in, as sufficient, and
subsequent notes given in renewal of the notes so demanded;
that it was the custom of the said bank to require, in all cases
where the drawer was a non-resident, that there should be such
an agreement to pay silch notes at the bank; that the bank
never would have agreed to discount the notes, cxcept upon
such a condition, and this was the understanding of the bank,
and necessarily presumed to be known to W. Carroll, and thc
endorsers, at the time of making such accommodation, or at
the time of his removal from the city of Washington.
The counsel for the defendants objected to the evidence;
but the Court overruled the objection, and admitted the evidence to be given. And the counsel for the defendants, prayed
the Court to instruct the jury, that, to enable the plaintiffs to
sustain their action aforesaid, against the defendants, it was
_ necessary that a personal demand should have been made upon
the maker of the note, for the money in the said note mentioned; but the Court refused to give the instruction; but instructed the jury, that, if from the evidence given as aforesaid, the
jury should be satisfied, that it was agreed by all parties, whose
names appear on the notes, and the plaintiffs, that the payment
should be demanded at the Bank of the Metropolis; and that
it was so demanded, at the bank, then a personal demand of
the maker, was n6t necessaty. To which several refusals and
opinions of the Court, the defendants, by their counsel, excepted, and sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Swann, District Attorney, and, Mr. Worthington, for
the plaintiffs in error..
1st. Parol evidence cannot be aamitted, to show the agreement alleged to have been made: cited, 3 Stark. Evid. 4. p.
995. 999. 1002. 3 A.t/.e9. 253. 8 Taunt. 92. 4 Mass. Rep. 414,
8 Johns. Rep. 187. -2Black. Rep. "1249. 7 Taunt. 278. 1 Cowen,

249. 14 Mdss. Rep. 155. 1 Gow. 74. 3 Camp. Rep. 57. 1 Taunt.
347.
2d. As to the custom claimed by the bank; 2 Stark. ,vid.

455. 1 Phil. _Evid. 429. 3 Stark.- 1038-9-40, 9 Wheat. Rep.
Renner vs. Bank of Columbia.

JANUARV TERM, 1828.

91

(Brent's Executors vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.)
Mr. Key, for the defendants in error, cited the following
cases. Chifly on Bills, 27. 12 M-rass. Rep. 172. Union Bank vs.
Hyde. 10 W'heat. 27-also 7 Johns. Rep. 99. 1 New. Rlep. 172.
1 Call.Rep. 250.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court:This was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United
.States, for the District of Columbia, on a note made by G.
A. Carroll, and endorsed by William Carroll and Robert
Brent, the testator of the plaintiffs in error, and made negotiable in the Bank of the Metropolis.
The declaration set out the note, and averred a demand of
the same, "at the Bank of the Metropolis," where the said
note -was payable.
At the.trial, the plaintiffs below proved that the accommodation given by the bank to said G. A. Carroll, on a note
similarly drawn and endorsed with the present, was given by
the bank, about three years before the date of the note on
which this suit was brought; and was given with the knowledge
of the endorsers thereon, and in consequence of their solicitatIOn.
For the purpose of showing an agreement between the bank
and the maker of the note, that the note to be discounted, alld
those thereafter to be made for its renewal, should be payable at the Bank of the Metropolis, and there demanded; the
bank proved by parol testimony, that the said G. A. Carroll
did not reside in the district after thewinter of 1817, in which
W. I'arroll lived in Washington, but resided at Port Tobacco,
in Maryland, about twenty miles from the city, which he occasionally visited; that many of the notes, taken for the continuance of the accommodation, were expressed to be payable
at the said bank; and that all the notes previous to that on
which this suit was brought, were there dernanded, which demand was acquiesced in as sufficient, and subsequent notes
given in renewal of those so demanded. The bank also proved
that it was its custom, in all cases where the maker was a nonresident, to require an agreement to pay such notes at the
bank, and that they never would have agreed to discount the
said notes, but on this condition.
The counsel for the defendants below objected to this testimony, but the Court permitted it to go to the jury. The
counsel for the defendants below then prayed the Court t6 instruct the jury, that to enable the plaintiffs to sustain their
action, it was necessary to prove that a personal demand had
been made on the maker of the note. The Court refused to
give this instruction ; but did instruct the jury that if they

9.2

SUPREME COURT.

kBrent's Executors vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.)
should be satisfied from' the evidence, that it was agreed by
all the parties, whose names appear on the notes, that the payment should be demanded at the Bank of the Metropolis, and
that it was so demanded, then a personal demand on the maker, was not necessary. An exception was taken to these opinion's of the Court, and their correctness is now to be examined.
The plaintiffs in error contend, that the testimony ought
not to have been admitted, because it is an attempt, by parol
proof, to -zary a written instrument. But thisis not an attempt to vary a written instrument
The place of demand is
not expressed on the face of the'note, and the necessity of a
demand on the person,, when the parties are silent, is an inference of law, which is drawn only when they are silent. A parol agreement puts an end to this inference, and dispenses with
a personal demand. The parties consent to a demand, at a
stipulated place, instead of a demand on ihe person of the maker; and this does not alter the instrument, so far as it goes,
but supplies extrinsic circumstances, which the parties are at
liberty to supply.
No demand is necessary to sustain a suit against the maker. His undertaking is unconditional, but the endorser undertakes conditionally to pay, if the maker does not; and this
imposes on the holder the necessity of taking the proper steps
to obtain payment from the maker. This contract is not
written, but is implied. It is, that due diligence to obtain
payment from the maker shall be used. When thq parties
agree what this due diligence shall be, they do not alter the
written contract, but agree upon an extrinsic circumstance,
and substitute that agreement for an act which the law prescribes only where they are silent. We think, then, that there
was no error in admitting the parol evidence which was offered to sustain the action.
If the testimony was admissible, there is no error in the instruction given by the Court. It was, that if the jury believed, from the evidence, that it 'was agreed by all the parties,
that the demand should be made at-the Bank of the Metropolis, and that it was so made; then a demand of the maker was
not necessary.
This point is, we think, involved in the question respecting
the admissibility of parol testimony, to establish the agreement. Had the note purported on its face to be payable at
the Bank of the Metropolis, that express agreement would undoubtedly hav6 dispensed with a personal demand. If that
agreement can'be made by parol, (and unless it can, the testimony was inadmissible,) the effect of the parol contract is
the same on this point, as if it had been in writing. The only

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

93

(Brent's Executors vs. The Bank of the Metropolis.)

inquiry therefore is, whether the testimony was sufficient to
be submitted to the jury for the purpose of proving'the agreement. We think it was.
The circumstanccs, that the endorsers were themselves active
in procuring the accommodation for the maker of the note; that
the accommodation had been continued for years without a de-,
mand on the person of the maker; that it was the invariable
usage of the bank, when the maker of an accommodation note
resided out of the city, to require, as the condition of the loan,
a stipulation that a demand at the bank should be sufficient;
that this accommodation would not have been continued, after
the removal of the maker out of the city, but on this condition; that the note purports, on its face, to be negotiable at the
Bank of the Metropolis; are facts, from which the jury might
justifiably infer the agreement of the parties to dispense with a
demand on the person of the maker.
A verdict having been rendered for the bank, the defendants
in the Court below filed errors in arrest of judgment.
The error alleged, is, that the first count in the declaration
neither charges"a personal demand on the maker of the note,
nor excuses the omission to make such demand. The deciaration certainly does not charge a demand on'the person of the.
maker; but this was not necessary, if the parties had agreed
that a demand at the bank should be substituted Tor a demand
on the maker.
The plaintiffs in error contend, that the agreement is not
alleged in the declaration, and we admit that the omission to
make this averment would be fatal. In that event, the plaintifR
below would have shown no cause of action. But the declaration avers a demand of the note, " at the Bank of the Metropolis," where the said note was payable. The note is set out
in the declaration, and does not purport, on its face, to be made'
payable at the bank. But the averment in the declaration, that
it was payable there, cannot be true unless there was an agreement of the parties to that effect.. It is an averment which
must have been proved at the trial, or the plaintiff below could
not have obtained a verdict and judgment.
After a verdict, it is, we think, sufficient to sustain the judgment.
There is no error, and thejudgmentis affirmed, with costs.

