bUPREMEI COURT.

OLD GRNT, 6n THE DEMISE OF SAMUEL MgREDITH, 1LAIrNTIF?,
IN ERROR, V&. JOHN M'KEE, OR THE USE OF THE BANK OF
THE COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.

'The Court will, not take jurisdiction of a case, where, although the whole

property claimed by the lessor of the plaintiff in error under a patent,
and which was recovered in ejectment, eiceeded twothousand dollars; the
title to a lot of ground, part of the whole tract, which was of less value
than five hundred dollars, was only involved in the case before the Cort.

MR. WICKLIFFE moved to dismiss this, cause, which was
brought by a writ of error from the Circuit Court of the district
of Kentucky; on the ground, that the property in controversy
was not of the value of two thousand dollars; although the
whole property owned by the lessor of the plaintiff in errror,
was under a patent, and which was recovered in the ejectment,
is one thousand acres; yet, the title to a lot in 'the town of Falmouth, of less value than five hundred dollars, held under the
patent, is only involved in'this case, and can 'only be affected
by the decision of this Court.
Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

Court.. This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Court of the
'United States, for the Seventh Circuit, and the district of Kentucky, awarding restitution of lot No. 108, in the town of Falmouth, to the defendant's in erkor; who had been turned out of
possession, by virtue of a writ of haberefacias possemsionem, is-

sued on a judgment in ejectment, in favour of the plaintiff in
error.
Previous'to th institution of the suit, the town of Falmouth
had been laid out, in pursuance of an Act of Assembly, and lot
No. 108 had been sold and conveyed to. George Hendricks.
The law establishing the town of Falmouth, directed that the
lots should be sold; subject to the condition of making certain
improvements thereon; within seven years; on failure to do
which, the trustees are empowered to enter on any lot not improved, and sell it again. These improvements were not made
on lot No. 108.
The defendant in error moves to quash the writ of error, because the matter in controversy is not of the value of 2,000,dollars. The motion is resisted, because the- whole property
which was recovered in the ejectment, may be considered as
involved in this motion; since each- tenant may move separately for an award of restitution, on the supposition that the regularity of the proceedings under the law by which the town

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

.49

(Grant vs. 3'Kee.)

was established, and the lots sold, may be examined; on this
motion, the plaintiff in error has brought that subject into view,
and has discussed it fully. But the Court is of opinion, that
the question of title cannot be considered on this writ of error.
The town of Falmouth was separated from the tract out of
which it was taken, and this lot was sold before the suit was
instituted; neitner te trustees of the town, nor the proprietors
of the lot, were parties to that ejectment. The motion to award
restitution, therefore, involved nothing further than the lot to
which the party prayed to be restored; 'and as that isnot of the
value of 2,000 dollars, the Court has no jurisdiction. The writ
of error is to be dismissed.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction; it nct appearing that the value of the premises. in this suit. is two
thousand dollars.

Vol. I.

