SUPREME COURT.

PHILIP

HICKIE AND OTHERS,

HEIRS AND LEGAL REPRESENTA-

TIVES OF JAMES MATHER, DECEASED,
ANDER

B.

SENTATIVES

APPELLANTS,

V8. ALEX-

STARKE AND OTHERs, HEIRS AND LEGAL REPREOF ROBERT STARKE,

DECEASED,

APPELLEES.

In the construction of the 25th section of the Judicial Act, passed 24th
of September 1789, this Court has never required, that the treaty, or
Act of Congress, under which the party claims, who brings the final judgment of a state Courtinto review before this Court, should have been
spread upon the record. It has always deemed it essential to the exercise of jurisdiction, in such a case, that the record should show a com.
plete title, under the treaty, or Act of Coigress, and that the judgment
of the Court is in violation of that treaty or Act. 198j
In order to bring himself within the protection of the Act of cession by
Georgia to the United States, for, the land, the party must show that he
was "actually.settled" on the land, on the 27th of October 1795, the period mentioned in the said Act of cession. 198}
It seems, that a settjement made on the land ly another person, who cultivated it for the proprietor, would be sufficient to constitute "an actual
settlement," within the meaning of the law; though the proprietor should
not reside, in person, on the estate, or within the territory. 198}

IN the Supreme Court of the county of Adams, in the state
of Mississippi, the appellees filed a bill in chancery against the
appellants ; which, according to the laws of the state, was transfer~ed to the Supreme Court, where judgment was given for the
cbmplainants.
The purpose of the bill was to obtain a conveyance of a tract
of land, containing 2000 acres; for which Robert Starke, in
1791, under whom the complainants claimed, obtained an order of survey from the Governor-General of Louisiana, which
order was executed by the deputy surveyor; and of which land
he afte., Wards took possession, and cultivated for years. Subsequently, Robert Starke being willing to exchange this bodyof lands* for another, proposed the same to the governor of
Louisiana, The bill alleged, that, from some personal hostility towards him, an offer of the land so held by him was made
to James Mather, the ancestor of the appellants, the defendants
in the bill; and a grant of the land was made in 1794, to James

Mather, by.fhe governor of Louisiana, who thereupon entered,
and cultivated part of the tract.
It was admitted, thatall the forms required by the established laws andcustoms of Louisiana,-while under the Spanish
government, by which a full and complete title to land was acquired, had not been conformed to, by Robert Starke, or his
heirs, the appellees;, and that the title of James Mather was,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

95

(Hickie et aL. vt. Starke et aL.)
in all respects, full and complete, as a legal title, under those
laws. The appellees, in their bill, claimed to have the land conveyed to them, as the title of the appellants had been acquired by collusion with the governor of Louisiana; and that Robert Starke had been forcibly, and against his will, dispossessed of the land. Under the authority of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi, a feigned issue was tried, to determine "whether
the ancestor of the complainants ever made a voluntary abandonment of his right to the premises in question, free from any
undue influence on the part of the Spanish government or its
officers."
This issue was found, by the verdict of a jury, in favour of
the complainants; and the same having been certified to the
Supreme Court, a decree was made in favour of the complainants, the appellees. The appellants then filed their petition
for a writ of error, to the Supreme Court of the United States;
suggesting, that the title of James Mather arose "under the
articles of agreement'and cession," between the United States
and the state of Georgia, and that by the decree of the Supreme Court, that title has been overruled. The argument before
the Court, was principally confined to two questions; upon
the determination of which, the jurisdiction of the Court in
the case, depended.1. Whether the construction and effect of the articles of
agreement and cession, between the United States and the state
of Georgia, were presented for the consideration of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in the investigation of this case;
so that, by the decree of the Court, the title claimed by theappellants, under the articles of agreement, was brought into
question ?
2. Whether the appellants' title, being a full and completm
Spanish grant, was confirmed by "the articles ot agreement
and cession," and-was in itself a valid and indefeisible grant
of the land?
The only facts connected with the discussion of the case before this Court, were those which related to the actual possession of the land by James Mather, and the period of the same.
They are sufficiently noticed in the decision of the Court.
Mr. Livingston, for the appellants.The question of jurisdiction rests upon the fact, whether the
construction of "the articles of agreement and cession," was
before the Court giving the decree for,the appellees.
The articles provide, that all complete grants made by the
Spanish or British governments, prior to the acquisition of
Louisiana, by the United States; and all incomplete grants
made by the state of Georgia, before "the articles," shall be
confirmed by the United States.

SUPREME COURT.
(Hickie et al. w. Starke et al.)
The complainants' bill admits, that the appellants, the defendants in the Supreme Court of Louisiana, had a complete
grant from the Spanish government of Louisiana, and thus the
title of the appellants was brought before the Court; and'this
title was, made valid, by the "articles of agreement and cession." The evidence in the case also fully establishes the Spanish title of the appellants, and this is shown in every pait of
the re~ord; the omission of the appellants to plead this title,
thus acknowledged, or thus proved, ought'not to defeat it. (Y
Wheat. 164. 201.) The petition for a writ of error to the Judge
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, states, that the title of
the appellants, is claimed under the "articles of agreement
and cession;" and as he signs the allowance of. the writ, the
fact of the title having been before him, is sufficiently shown.
As to the'non-compliance, by the appellants, with the provisions of the Act of Congress of Sd March 1810, which provide for the registering of claims, under the Snanish and British government, it was said1. Congress cannot pass a law to affect a title, which has
been declared complete by- the "articles of agreement and
cession."

2. If that law is valid, the fact of forfeiture by nbn-registration, must be ascertained by some proceeding, before the
title can be considered as lost.
S. The provisions of the law refer to British grants, which
were of a particular nature, and which were required to be
exhibited to, and registered with the commissioners; and not
to Spanish grants.
Both parties to the case, claim under a law of the United
States; and, .by the 92th section of the Judiciary Law, the jui-isdicti6n of this Court extends to all such cases. As to jurisdiction, there was cited, 4 Cranich, 482. 4 Wheat. 848. 5

Cranch, 348.
Mr. M'Duffie and Mr..Coxe, for the appellees.-.
The Court will not entertain jurisdiction of this case, but to
a limited extent, if it shall consent to assume any jurisdiction
over it; as the whole of the facts, upon which the equitable
title of the appellees rested, having been peculiarly within, the
jtiiisdiction o the Supreme Colirt of Lo~uisiina, sitting in
chancery, and the decision of that Court, having affirmed'
these facts; they -will remain unaffected, by any proceedings
here. 1 Wheat. 352. 2 Ibid. 363. 6 Ibid. 379.390. 7 .Thfd. 206.
In the Chanceey Court of Mississippi, "the articles of agreement and, cession" were not noticed; and the decree was exclusively upon the equitable title of the co nplainants in the
bill. This being the fact, it cannot be alleged hero, that the
cnnstricton of these articles was brought into question.

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

97

(Hickie et al. vs. Starke et al.)
In order to maintain thejurisdiction of this Court, it must
be shown, that the title under "the articles, &c.," was decided upon by the Court.
"-'"
The articles of agreement and cession," .look forward to
the performance of certain acts, under the laws of the United
States. The 5th section of the Act of Congress of 180S, requires,
that titles claimed under Spanish grants, shall be exhibited to a
Board of Commissioners, to be appointed for the purpose of
examining and registering the same; and, until it shall be
shown, that the appellants have a grant under the Spanish government,.and that the same was exhibited and registered according to the provisions of the law, they are precluded from
claiming title under "the articles of agreement and ce5sion?'
The articles of agreement were not intended to extend furthei
than to adjust the claims of the United States, and the state of
Georgia, to the lands; and not to settle.those of individuals.
Henderson vs. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 543. Congress had no
power to legislate, so as to deprive any one of an equitable
title, and consequently the articles of agreement could not take
away the appellees' title, existing before fhe cession.
3. The appellants are bound to show a good and perfect
title, under the agreement with Georgia, and the laws of the
United States; and that they were in possession of the property. The grant from Spain, .must have beer legally executd,
according to the Spanish laws; and, under these laws, the prior
equitable title of the appellees, would have .been regarded and
enforced. 7 -Partidas,16th, 17th title. The operation of " the
articles," cannot be such, as will give val.idity to a title originating in fraud or violence; nor will this Court say, that a title
originating thus shall be sustained; or that the decision of
an inferior Court, upon the facts of fraud and violence, was
erroneous. Cited 7 Wfheat. 206. 6 Ibid.'S79.
Thle Supreme Court of Missi~ssippi did not decide, that the
*title held by the appellees, was invalid; but that it was a legal
title, which could not, ir conseience, be held by the appellants ;
and that Uhey should convey the same to thie complain ants, the.
appellees. A&Court of Chanclery does not decide on the title
to land, directly, but only operates on the same, collaterally.
Mr. Chief Justice
Court.

MALRsHALL

delivered the opinion of the

This is a writ of error, to a decree pronounced in th~e Court
of the last resort, in the state of Mississippi, directing the
plaintiffs in error, to convey to the defendants, a certain tract
of land, in the said proceedings mentioned. The plaintiffs in
error allege, that their title was secured by the compact entered into between the United States and Georgia, for the esVo. I.
N

98

SUPREME COURT.

(Hickie et al. a. Starke et al.)
sion of the country ii which the land lies; and that this decree
is in violation of tha't compact. The defendants insist, that the
compact between the United States and Georgia, was not called into question; and that the 25th section of the judicial act,
does not give this Court jurisdiction of the case.
In the construction of that section, the Court has never reqfiired that the treaty, oar Act of Congress, under which the
party claims, who brings the final judgment of a state Court into
review before this Court, should have been pleaded specially, or
spread on the record. But it has always been deemed essential
to the'exercise of jurisdiction in such a case, that the record
should show a complete title under the treaty or Act of Congress, and that the judgment of the Court is in violation of
that treaty or Act. The condition in the Cession Act, on which
the plaintiffs in error rely, is in these words.:-" That. all persons, who, on the 27th day of October 1795, were actual settlers within tlre territory thus ceded, shall be confirmed in all
the grants, legally and fully executed prior to that day, by the
former British government of West Florida, or by the government of Spain."
The plaintiffs produce- a grant, legally and fully executed;
but -to bring the case under the treaty, they must also prove,
that the ancestor or person under whom they claim, was an
actual settler, on'the 27th October 1795. The answer asserts,
that the warrant of survey issued on the 7th day of February
1793, and the survey made on the 2-0th July, in the same'year,
when possession was taken; and that the patent issued cn the
Sd April 1794. James Williams deposes, that about the 3d
December 1795, he took possession of the tract of land in dispute, as overseer for' lames Mather the patentee, and undestood from him, that he had gone to Natchez some time before,
to apply for land in the-part of the country where the tract in
controversy lies. This is the testimony furnished by the record,
to prove that James Mather, the grantee, was an actual settler,
accQrding to the requisition of 'he Cession Act of Georgia. In
Henderson vs. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 530, the term " actual
settler," seems to have been understood as synonymous with
the resident of the country. That case, however, did not require that the precise meaning of the term should be fixed,
and the Court is disposed to think, that a settlement made on
the land by another person, who cultivated it for the proprietor, would be sufficient; though the proprietor should not reside in person on the estate, or within the territory. Had the
settlement proved by Williams, been made at the day required
by the Cession Act, it would, we think, have satisfied the requisition of that Act, and entitled the plaintiffs in error to the be-nefit of the condition. But it was not made until the 3d of D.-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

99

(Hickie et al. vs. Starkc et al.)

cember 1795. We think then, that the plaintiffs in error have
failed to prove, that the person under whom they claim, wvas an
actual settler on the 27th day of October 1795; and that the
Court has no jurisdiction of the cause.
The writ of error dismissed, it not appearing that this Court
has jurisdiction of the cause.

