JANUARY 'TERM. 1898.

THE MEOHANIOS BANK OF ALEXADRIA, APPELLANTS, VS.
LOUISA AND ANNA MAnu SETON, APPELLEES, BY'THEXt
GUAnDIAN,

&c.

Although it seems to be ageneral rule, that a Court of"Chancery will not

decree a specific perform~ance of contracts, except for the purchase of
lands, or things which relate to the realty, and are of a permanent nature;
and that where contracts are for chattels, and compensation can bmade
in damages, toe parties may be left to their remedy at law; yet, notwithstanding this distinction between personal contracts for goods, and contracts for lands, there are many cases to be found, where specific performance of contracts relating to personalty, have been enforced in chancry ; and Courts will only weigh with greater nicety, contracts of this
description, than such as relate to lands. {305}
Although an objection, for want of proper parties, maybe taken at the hearing, yet the objection ought not to prevail upon the final hearing of an
appeal; exceptin very strong cases, and where the Court perceives a
indispensable
partyinis the
wanting.
Allnecessary
persons and
materially
interested
subject3o6s
of a suit in chancery,
ought to be made parties, either plaintiffs or defendants; but this is a
rule established for the convenient administration of justice, and is more
or less within the discretion of the Court; and it should be restricted to
parties
whose
interests
in the
and to be
by the
The
relief
granted
will are
always
beissue,
so modified,
as affected
not to affect
thedecree.
interests of others. {305}
The cross examination of a witness by the opposite party, is considered as
waiver
xce.ptions
of his deposition.
{'}30
Byathe
rulesof
of this
Cort,tothe
"in allregularity
cases of equity
and admiralty
jurisdiction,
no objection
rhall
ue allowed
be taken
to
the
admissibility
any deposition,
deed, granl,
or othertoexhibit,
found in the recrd, asofevidence;
unless objection was taken thereto in the Court below; but the same shall
otherwise be deemed to have been taken by consent." {307}
It is not a correct construction of the 3d and 21st sections of the Act of
Congress, incorporating the Mechanics. Bank of Alexandria, that the
stock of the bank shall he deemed to belong to the persons in whose
names it stands upon the books of the bank, andthat the bankisnotboundi
to recognise the interests of any ceatay que trust, and may refuse to
permit the stock to ba transferred, whilst the nominal holder is indebted
to the bank. 13081
Full notice of a trust, draws after it all the consequences of a full declara.
tion of the trust, s to all persons chargeable with such notice. {309}
itis well settled in equity, thafall persons coming into possession of trust
prcperty, with notice of the trust, shall be considered as trustees ; and
boutnd, with respect to that special property, to the execution of the

trust. {309}

A subsequent Board of Directors of a bank, is to be considered as know-

ing all the circumstances commurticated, or known to a previous Board.
{3091
It is a well settled rule, that a Court is not bound to take nofice of any 'nterest acquired in the subject matter of the suit, pendipg the dispute.
,31o}

300

SUPREME COURT.

(The Mechanics Bankjof Alexandria v8. Loilsa & Maria Seton.)
APPEAL from theCircuit Court forthe county of Alexandria:
This suit was instituted on the Chancery side of the Circuit
Court, by the appellees, complainants in that Court, against
the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria; to compel them to permit
a traiqsfer to be made of three thousand dollars of the capital
stock of the bank, standing in the name of Adam Lynn, and
held by him as trustee of the complainants.
The bill charges, that the complainants' grandfather, John
Wise, to make provision for the suppdrt of his children and
grandchildren, had made sale, in 1815, of an establishment
called the City Tavern, at the price of 14,000 dollars; of which
10,000 dollars were paid by the transfer of that amount of United States six per cent. stock, made by the purchasers to the
said Adam Lynn, the nephew and agent of the said John Wise,
for his use. That the residue, 4000 dollars, was paid to the
said Adam, in money, to be by him invested in stocks, for the
use, and subject to the control, of the said Jbhn Wise. That
out of this sum, the said Adam purchased from one James
Sanderson 3000 dollars of the capital stock of the bank, which
was in like manner transferred to him; and that although no
trust was in terms declared, in the transfer of either of the
said stocks, they were both avowedly purchased and held by
the said Adam, in his character of agent and trustee for Wise.
That on the 29th of April 1815, the said John executed a deed
to the said Adam, by which he conveyed to him the said stocks .
described as standing in the said Adam's name, in trust, for the
use of the said John during his life, as to the dividends, and
after his death, then, as to the bank stock, to the use of the complainants;-and that he has since died., That when the purchase of the bank stock was made, and when it was transferred to the said Adam, it was well known to the President and
Directors of the bank, that the purchase was.made, and the
transfer received by him, in his fiduciary character.
That the bank stock was purchased on the lth of February
1815, from one James Sanderson, at a small advance; and on
that day, a payment of 720 dollars was made in. part of the
purchase money, and as Sanderson had obtained a discount
rom the hank, on the pledge of all the stock he held in it, it
became necessary to know on what terms the Board of Direct,.
ors would permit a transfer.
That this application was accordingly made by the said
Adam, who distinctly stated that the purchase was to be made
for the benefit of the said John Wise, was to be paid for in his
finds, and was to be transferred to the said Adam for his use.
He further proposed to the Board, as an accommodation to himsclt that he should be allowed to discharge a part of the purchase money to Sanderson, by assuming on himself a part of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

Sol

(The MIechanics Bank of Alexandria vs. Louisa & Maria Seton.)
Sanderson's debt to the bank, and continuing to that extent the
lien the bank then held on the stock to be transferred. That
this proposal was rejected, distinctly, on the ground that the
Board must consider the said John Wise as the'owner of the
stock.
That the said Adam then paid 2400 dollars to the bank, in
discharge of the said Sanderson's stock debt; which being done,
the transfer was permitted, and, on the 15th of March 1815,
was made to the said Adam, as trustee, though the trust was
not declared in the transfer. That it was4 however, officially
made known, previously to the transfer, and was afterwards
frequently a subject of conversation amongst the directors at
the Board.
That the complainants having expressed to the said Adam
their desire that he would transfer their stock to their guardi-,
an, he offered himself ready to do so; but, that on application
at the bank, permission was refused; on the allegation, that he
was a debtor to the bank, and that it held a lien for that debt
on all its stock which stood in his name.
That the said Adam was proprietor of other stock in the
bank in his own right, to the amount of 18,014 dollars, and had
a discount on it to the amount of 15,360 dollars, which was
little more than the sum permitted to be loaned on stock security, by a by-law of the bank-that is to say, 4-5ths of the
amount of such stock.
The bill further charges, that when the said Lynn's debt to
the bank was contracted, he was one of the directors; and that
by the 9th article of the charter of Incorporation, the President and Directors were prohibited from receiving discounts
or loans on adcommodation, beyond 5000 dollars. That all the
loans to him were of that description; and that so far as they
exceed 5000 dollars, being in violation of the charter, can create no lien under it. The bill, after propounding special interrogatories, corresponding with the previous allegations, prays
that the bank may be compelled to open its transfer book, and
to permit Lynn to transfer the stock, and for general relief.
The answer denies that the Board of Directors had notice
of the fiduciary character in which Lynn held the stock claimed by the complainants. It avers, that at the time the answer
was put in, there was no stock standing, in his name, on 'he
books; the whole of the stock which stood in his name haring
been applied to the payment of his debts to the bank, under articles of agreement between him and the cashier.
It admits, that Lynn had received accommodation loans on
stock, to an amount exceeding 5000 dollars, but asserts that
loans of that description did not fall within the prohibition of

302

SUPREME COURT.

(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria vw. Louisa & Maria Seto.)
the charter; but if they did, it cannot affect the bank's right,
claiming as purchasers under the contract before mentioned.
The purdhase of the stock by Lynn in his fiduciary character, and the knowledge of that fact by the Board of Directors,
officially and individually, is claimed to be fully proved by the
testimony of the said Adam Lynn, a director of the bank, and
by that of Robert Young, President, and of Daniel M'Leod
and John Gird, directors.
The special agreement under which the respondents claim
the stock, appears to have been entered into on the 80th day
of May 1821, nearly a year after the bill bad been filed. By this
contract,Lynn agreed at once to transfer all his stock,except that
claimed by the complainants; for the transfer of this, he gavd.
a power of attorney, which by agreement was not to be executed by a transfer, until the decision. of the Court on the respondent's claim of lien in this suit.
The Circuit Court, on hearing, decreed a transfer; from
which decree, this appeal was entered.
Mr. Swann; and Mr. Wirt, for the appellants.'The Mechanics Bank of Alexahdria did not know of The
trust; this stock stood in the name of Adam Lynn, and they
had no notice of any other ownership in it; no trust was declared upon the books of the bank; and by the provisions of the
charter, the persons who appear as stockholders upon the
books, are the only stockholders. By the charter, no one who
is a debtor t6 the bank, can transfer stock owned by him, the
bank having a prior lien on the same for their debt.
I The claim of the plaintiffs below, is resisted on the following
grounds:1. Adam Lynn made a special agreement to transfer this
stock to the bank.
2. Adam Lynn was a. debtor to the bank, and this stock
standing in his name, on the books of the bank, without a declaration of the trust, was prolierly retained as a security for
the debt due by him.
S. The subject in controversy in this case, is not proper
for the decision of a Court of Chancery. There cannot be a
specific performance decreed by this Court, as the stock cannot be designated, or specially described.' 1 Muad. Char.403.
1 P. Wlliams, 570.
4. By the charter of the bank, the only evidence of ownership of stock, is the books of the bank. In the case of a corporation existing under a law, the forms prescribed by the
law must be complied With. 17 Ms. Rep. 1. 2.Black. Com.
127.
5. In this, case, it was considered by the -complainants, that

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

303

(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria vs. Louisa & Maria Seton.)
Adam Lynn should be a paity to the bill, and a rule was taken
on him to appear; but the Court wnt on to a hearing and decision of the suit, without his having been made a party. The
Court will, therefore, having this fact upon the proceedings,
ex- oqicio, turn the parties out of Court. Duguid vs. Patterson
I Hen. 4- Minn. 445.,
Mr. Jones, and Mr. Taylof, for the appellees.
1. As to the'specific lien claimed by the appellants, under a
power of attorney, given by Adam Lynn. It was granted after the bill of the complainants was filed, and is therefore of
no value. The transfer, by the power of attorney, was tlsto a
violation of the agreement, under which it was given.
But, if this is'not an answer to the claim of specific lien; the
transfer of the stock, by power of attorney, was made, with
notice of the right of the complainants.
2. It does not appear, that the debt due by Adam Lynn to
the bank, arose after the liurchase of this stock; and therefore
no.new credit was given upon this stock. The trust was known
to the Board of Directors, when the stock was transferred by
Sanderson to Lynn; and from that time they dealt with the
trustee subject to the trust. A corporation, by the decisions
of this Court, is like an individual, in transactions of this kind;
and the succeeding Board of Directors were bound by the ci'cumstances which occurred when the trust commenced.
3. The bank were the trustees of the complainants, either
by an original contract, or as trustees, resulting from the payment of the pUrchase money for the stock out of their funds.
2 Vez. 4- Beam. 388. 5 Vezey, 43. 1 P. Wlliams, 112. 1 Vezej,
275. 10 Vezey, 360. 1 Vezey, jun. 32. 42. As to constructive
notice, were cited, 8 Comyn's Dig. N. Ed. 36S, 15th division.
2d division, 10. 20, 21. 15. 358.
4. This is the case of trust, which is the peculiu~n of a
Court of Chancery; and the number of shates which are claimed, is a sufficient designation of the property. The o'riginal
shares bought of Sanderson, remained in the name of Adam
Lynn, when the bill ' as filed.
5. The provisions of the charter, relative to evidence of
ownership of stock, can only apply, when parties are the holders of stock, in, their own right. The practice of the bank to
hold stock as mortgagees, shows a different construction of the
charter, by the bank itself, from that which is claimed in thi.s
case.
6. The rules of the Court of Chancery are,'that all persons
who were parties to the transactions, and all who must be be.
fore the Court, for the purposes of complete justice in the
case, must be made parties. ' It was not deemed necessary to
make Adam Lynn a party, as he was willing to do all that th

304

SUPREME COURT.

(The Idechanics Bank of Alexandria it. Louisa & Maria Setan.)
Court would have required, from him; and it was the bank
only, who, having the control of the stock, could make the
transfer, sought by the complainants.
Mr. Justice THorsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.The appellees, who were the complainants in the Court below, filed their bill against the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria,
setting out their right to three thousand.dollars of the capital
stock-of that bank, which was standing in the name of Adam
Lynn; but which was avowedly purchased and held ,by him, as
trustee for John Wise, the grandfather of the complainants,
and from whom they derived their right and title to the stock
in question. That they were 'desirous of having their stock
transferred to their guardian, which the trustee, Adam Lynn,
was willing to do, and offered to transfe'r the same; but that on
application to the batik, permission was refused, on the allegation that Adam Lynn was a debtor to the bank, and that it held
a lien for that debt, on all the stock of the bank, which stood
in his name. The bill alleges, that when the stock was purchased by Adam Lynn, for John Wise, and transferred to him
upon the books of the bank, it was well known to the President and Directors, that the purchase was made by, and transferred to Lynn, in hig charauter of trustee for John Wise, although the trust was not expressed ih the transfer.
The bill prays, that the bank may be compelled to .open its
transfer book, and permit Adam" Lynn to ,transfer the three
thousand dollars, in stock, to the said Louisa and Anna Maria
Seton, or to their guardian, Nathaniel S. Wise.
The bank, by its answer, denies that the Board of Directors
knew, or had any notice, that Adam Lynn held the stock at
trustee; but alleges, that all the stock standing upo< the books
of the bank, in the name of Adam Lynn, was considered by
the Board of Directors as his own stock; and avers, that-at
the time the answer was put in, there was no stock standing in
his name on the books, but that the whole of it had been applied by the bank to the payment of his debts to it; according
to articles of agreement between him and the cashier of the
bank.
The bank also sets up the right, under its charter, to hold
the stpck, for the payment of Lynn's debt; but had, under the
agreement made with the cashier, as before mentioned, become
the purchaser of the stock, for a full and fair consideration;
without any know!.-dge that the complainants had any interest
in the same.
The Court below, upon the bill, answer, and exhibits, and
proofs, taken in the cause, decreed that the bank should cause
its transfer book to be opened, and to permit Adam Lynn to

JANUARY TERM, 1823.

305

(The Mfechanics Bank of Alexandria wr.Louisa & Maria Seton.)
transfer the stock to nathaniel S. Wise, guardian of the complainants, to be by him held in trust, for their use. From this
decree there is an appeal to this Court, and the following
points have been made, upon which a reversal of that decree
is claimed.
- 1. That the subject matter of the bill is hot properly cognizable in a Court of Chancery. but that the remedy is at laiv,
and the party to be compensated in damages.
9- That there is a want of proper parties.
3. That upon the merits, the bank has a right to hold and
apply the stock, in payment of Adam Lynn's debt to it.
With respect to the first objection, it has been said that a
Court of Chancery will not decree a specific performance of
contracts; 'except for the purchase of lands or things that relate
to the realty, and are of a permanent nature; and, that where
the contracts are for chattels, and compensation can be made in
damages, the parties must be left to their remedy at law. But
notwithstanding this distinction between personal contracts for
goods, and contracts for lands, is to be found laid down in the
books, as a general rule; yet there are many Cages, to be found,
where specific performance of contracts, relating to personalty,
have been enforced in chancery; and Courts will only weigh
with greater nicety, contracts of this description, than, such as
relate to lands.
But the application of this distinctionl to'the present case, is
not perceived. If this had been a bill, filed 'against, the bank, to
compel a specific performance of any.contract.entered into with
it, for the sal& of stock, it'might then be u'rged, that cqmpensation for a breach of the con tract, might be made in damages;
and that the remedy was proper!y to be sopight in w Oourt of
law. But the bill does not set ul5 any contract between the cdm.
plainants and the bafik; nor does it seek a.specific'perforimancc
of any express contract whatever, entered'into with the bank.
It only asks, that the l5ank may be compelled to openi its traulsfer b6ok, and permit Adam Lynn to transfer the stock. fly the
charter and by-laws of the bank, such transfer could only be
made upon the books of the bank; and it was by,their consent
alone, that this could be done.
Although it might be the duty of the bank to permit such
transfer, it would be difficult to sustain an action at law, for
refusing ,to open its books, and permit the trailsfer. Nor have
the appellants shownt..such a claim to the stock, as to authorize the Court to turn the appellees round to their remedy
at law, against Lynn, admitting they might have 'it. At all
events,, the remedy at law is not clear andperfe't, aid it is not.
a case for compensation in damages, btt for specific performance; which can only e enforced-in a Court ol Ohaiicery."Qq
VOL,I.

SUPREME COURT.(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria vs. Louisa &Maria Seton.)
2d. The second objection, that Adam Lynn ought to have
'een made a defendant, would seem to grow out of a misapprebension of the object of this bill, and the specific relief sought
by it.
It ought to be observed here, preliminarily, as matter of practice, that although an objection for want of proper parties may
be taken at the hearing; yet the objection ought not to prevail
upon the final hearing on appeal; except in very strong cases,
and when the Court perceives that a necessary and indispensa-.
ble party is wanting.
The objection should be taken at an earlier stage in the proceedings, by which great delay and expense would be avoided.
The general rule, as to parties, undoubtedly is, that when a
bill is brought for relief, all persons materially interested in the
subject of the suit, ought to be made parties, either as plaintiffs or defendants; in order to prevent a multiplicity of suits,
and that there may be a complete and final decree between all
parties interested. But, this is a rule established for the convenient administration 6f justice, and is subject to many exceptions; and is, more or less, a matter of discretion in the Court;
and ought to be restricted to parties, whose interest is involved
in the issue, and to be affected'by the decree: The relief granted, will always be so modified, as not to affect the interest of
Pthers. 2 Mad. Chancery, 180. 1 Johns. Chancery Cases, 850.
Where was the-necessity, or even propriety, of making Lynn
a party? No relief is sought against him. The bill expressly
alleges that he was perfectly willing to make the transfer; but
permission was refused by the bank. There is no allegation in
the bill, upon which a decree could be made against Lynn; and
it is a well settled rule, that no -one need be made a party,
against whom, if brought to a hearing, the plaintiff can have
io decree. e Mad..Clz. 184. SP. Will. slO--Note 1.
The contest, with respect to the right to the stock, is between
the complainants and tt-e bank; and it cannot be necessary to
bring Lynn into the 'suit, in order to determine that question.
F1e claims no right to the stock; and if the bank has established its right to hold it, for the payment of Lynn's debt, the complainants have no pretence for requiring the books of the bank
to be opened, and to permit the transfer to be made, as prayed
in the bill. The bank cannot compel the complainants to bring
Lynn before the Court, as a defendant; for the purpose of litigating questions between themselves, with which the complainants have no concern; No objection to the decree can, therefore, be made fox want of proper parties.
The remaining inquiry is, whether the bank is entitled to
bold this stock, as security, or -apply it in payment of Lynn's

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

307

(The Mechanics Bank o" Alexandria vs. Louisa, &Maria Seton.)
debt; either by virtue of its charter, or, under the agreement
between him and the cashier.
An objection, however, has been made, preliminarily, to this
Court's noticing the deposition of Adam Lyhn; because, as is
alleged, it was taken after the cause was set down for hearing,
and without any order-of the Court for that purpose.
Admitting this to have been irregular, no objection appears
to have been made in the Court below, to the reading of the deposition; and had it been made, it ought not to have prevailed
even there; because the defendants cross-examined the witness,
whicti would be considered a waiver of the irregularity.
BIt, at all events, the objection cannot be listened to. here,
according to the express rule of this Court, (February Term,
1824,) which declares, "that in all cases of equity and admiralty jurisdiction, no objection shall be allowed to be taken to
the admissibility of any depositiobn, deed, grant, or other exhibit, found in the record as evidence; unless objection was taken
thereto, in the Court below, and entered of record; but the
same shall otherwise be deemed to have been admitted by consent."
It is deemed unnecessary to enter into an examination of the
proofs in the cause, to show that, in point of fact, the stock in
question was held by Lynn, in trust for the complainants; and
that this fact was known to the Board of Directors, when it was
transferred to him by James Sanderson. The evidence establishes these points, beyond any reasonable ground of doubt; and
the real question is, whether the bank, with full knowledge of
the Board of Directors, that this stock was not the property of
Lynn, but held by him in trust for the appellees; can essert a
lien upon it for the private debt of Lynn, either under the charter or the ag'eement, made with Cliapin, and the transfer made
by him to the bank.
The equity of the case must strike every one very forcibly;
as being decidedly with the appellees. And unless the claims
of the bank can be sustained, by the clear and positive provisions of its charter, the decree of the Court below ought to be
affirmed.
This claim is asserted, under the provisions of the Sd and
21st sections of the Act of Congress, incorporating the bank,
The third* section, after providing for.the opening the subscription for the stock, and pointing out the manner in which
the excess shall be reduced, in case the subscription shall
exceed the number of shares allowed to be subscribed; has
this proviso; "Provided always, that it- is hereby ex.presslv
understood, that all the subscriptions, and shares obtained
in consequence thereof, shall be deemed and held to 1.6 forte sole and exclusive use and benefit of the persons, co-part-

308

SUPREME COURT.

_-(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria v8. Louiia & Maria Seton.)
nerships, or bodies politic, subscribing, or in whose behalf the subscriptions, respectively, shall be declared to be
made, at the time of making the same; and all bargains, contracts; promises, agreements and engagements, in any wise
conti-avening this provision, shall be void." The 91st section declares, "that the shares of the capital stock, shall be
transferable at any time, according to such rules as may be
e~tablished, by the President and Directors; but no stock
shall be transferred, the hwlder thereof being indebted to the
bank, until such debt be satisfied; except the President and
Directors shall otherwise order it."
These sections, when taken together, have been supposed to
require a construction, that the 9tock shall be deemed to belong
to the person, in whose name it stands upon the books of the
bank; and that the bank is not bound to recognise the interest
of any "eetuy
quetrust; andmavrefuseto permit the stock to be,
transferred,'whilst the nominal holder is indebted to the bank.
This construction, however, in the opinic n of the Court, cannot be sustained. The third section must clearly be understood
as applying to the first subscription for the stock; and was intended to prevent one person subscribing for stock in the name
of another, for his own benefit.
I The construction of the 21st section, will depend upon the
interpretation to be given to the word holder, as there used.
This term is not, necessarily, restricted to the nominal holder.
-It will admit of a broader and more enlarged meaning; and maywell be applied to the party, really, and beneficially interested
in the stock.' And there can be no good reasons why it should
not be so applied, when the bank is fully apprized of all circnmstances in relation to the stock, and knows who is the real
holder'thereof.
Thig provision was intended to put int6 the hands of the
bank, additional security for debts due from stockholders. But,
when .it is known, that the person in -whbse name the stock
stands, has no interest in it, he will acquire no credit upon the
strength of such stock; and that such was the understandingof the bank, in this case, is clearly shown by the evidence.
ForP,' when the transfer was made to Lynn, he asked to have
.the discount continuea'to him, which Sanderson, from whom
he purchased,.had upon the stock. But this was refused, on
the ground that the stock did not belong to Lynn,but to Wise.
There is rno evidence in the cause to show, that Lynn's debt was
..contracted with the. bank after the stock was transferred to
him; or that he has, in any manner, obtained credit with the
bank on account thereof; but the contrary is fairly to be understood from the proofs.-Nor does the bank allege the insol-

JANUARY TER!, 1s8.

309

(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria-t. Louisa & Mria Seton.)
vency of Lynn,, or that it has not a full and complete rsedy
against him, without having recourse to this stock.
To permit the bank, under such- circumstances, to avail itself of this stock to satisfy a debt contracted without any re
ference to it as security, and with fill knowledge that Lnn
held it in'truit for the complainant&; would be repugnant to
the most obvious principles of justice and equity. Suppose
the trust had beev expressly declared upon the transfer book
of the bank; would there be'the least colour for sustaining the
claim now setup? And yet Lynn would be the legal holder of
the stock, in such case, as much as in the one now-before the
Court. Full notice of a trust draws after it all the consequdn
ces of an express declaration of the trust, as to ail persons
chargeable with such notice.
It is a well settled rule in equity, that all persons coming into posgession of trust propgerty, with notic of the trust, shahf
be conisidered as trustees, and bound, with respect to that special property, to the execution of the trust. (9 Md.
. -125..1

&h. 4 E.If. 262.)

N( -e to an agefit is notice to his principal. If it were held
otherwise, it would cause great inconvenience; and notice would
be avoided in every case, by employing agents. 2 Mad. Ch.326.
Notice to the Board of Directors, when this.stock was trabsferred to Lynn, that he held it as trustee only, was notice to
the bank; and no subsequent change of Directors, could require
a new notice of this fact. So that if the bank had sustained any
injury, by reason of a subsequent Board not knowing that Lynn
held the stock in trust; it would result from the negligence of
its own agents, and could not be visited upon the complainants.
But no such injury is pretended. From any thing that appears
to the contrary, Lynn is fully able to pay his debt to the bank.
The case of the Union Bank of Georgetown t3s. Laird, (2
Wheat. 390,) has been supposed to have a strong.beating upon
the one now before the Court. But the circumstances of the
iwvo cases are very dissimilar. In the former, Patton was the
real, as well as the nominal holder of the stock, when he contracted his debt with the bank, -nd when his acceptance fell
due, and the lien of the bank, no doubt, attached upon the stock;
and this was previous to the assignment of it to Laird; and-the
question there was, whether the bank had done any thing which
ought to be considered a waiver of the lien. But, in the present case, Lynn'never was the real owner of the stock, and the
bank well understood that he held it as trustee, and no lien for
Lynn's debt ever attached upon it.
The appellants cannot, therefore, under any provisions'in
their charter, apply this stock to their own use, fdr the debt of

310

SUPREME COURT7.
(The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria v8. Louisa & Maria Seton.)

Lynn, to the prejudice of the rights of the known cestuy que
trw2t.

Nor is there any ground upon which the claim of the bank
can be sustained, under the agreement made between Lynn and
Chapin, the cashier, and the transfer thereof, made by the latter to the bank. If the bank, as has already been shown, was
chargeable with the knowledge that Lynn was a mere trus'tee,
it could acquire no title from him, discharged of the trust; and
if neccessary, might itself be compelled to execute the trust.
Nor has the bank any title to this stock under the transfer made
by Chapin. This was done without any legal authority, being
several months after Lynn had revoked the power of attorney,
under which'the transfer was pretended to be made; and with
full knowledge that Lynn was not the owner of the stock. But
another and complete answer to the whole of this arrangement.
between Chapin and Lynn, is; that it was made long after the
hill'in this case was filed; and it is a well settled rule, that the
Court is not bound to take notice of any interest acquired in
the subject matter of the suie pending the dispute.
The decree of the Court below, must accordingly be affirm
ed, with costs.

