JANUARY TERM, 188.

Joiu

ARCHER AND JOHN W. STUM , EXECUTORS OF JOHN STUMP,

COI IPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, VS. MARY DENEALE, WIDOW.

AND EXECUTRIX OF GEORGE DENEALE DEOEASED, CHARLES

T.

STUART AND ANN LUCRETIA HIS WIFE; MARY CATHARINE AND

NANcy P. DENEALE,

CHILDREN AND REPRESENTATIVES OF THE

SAID GEORGE DENEALF, DEFENDANTS AND APPELLEES.

The testator, residing and owning real and personal estate in the county of
Alexandria, District of Columbia, by his will gate ,"allhis estate, real an 4
person.il, to his wife during her life, for the use and purpose ofraisingaid
educating his children,' each child at the age of twenty-one to be entitled
to an equal portion of his estate, real andlpersongl; subjecteacb, to a deduction of one-third for the maintenancebf hiswife. Herecommendshiswife
to sell the negrues for uterm of years, and directs "an appraisement" only
of "his eitate" shall be made, that no sale of the furniture shall be made ;
and then states that he is indebted to no one, and proposes to continue
so," that be is surety for his brother, for which he holds a deed of trust
on his property, sufficient, helhopes, to pay the bame, and directs that his
"estate shall not be sold to pay these debts until the property so divided
shall be sold," when his "estate must be charged with any deficiency,
and directs that his executors shall not give security, as his own estate did
not require it." This will does not charge the real estate of the testator
with his debts. 1588}
The word "estate" is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace property of
every description, and will charge lands with debts, if used with other
words which indicate an intention'to charge them; butif'used alone, with.out such intent, they will not have such operation. 1589} Under the laws of Virginia relative to the estate of deceased persons, lands
are never appraised. {589}

aTItHS was an appeal, by the complainants, in a bill filed in
the Circuit Court for the county of Alexandria,, upon which a
decree was rendered in favour of the defendahts,' appellees rn
this Court.
The complainants by their bill sought to make the real estate
of George Deneale liable for the payment of their debt. They
set forth, that they havea subsisting judgment against the executrix of George Deneale, for the sum of 97957 58, , besides
interest and costs. That.this judgment was founded on a contract between James Deneale and George Deneale, and the tes-

'tator of the omplainants. That 89913 65 of this judgment
was satisfied by a sale of the property of James Deneale the
principal, leaving a balance due on the judgment of 85000.
The bill charges that George Deneale left a considerable
estate real and personal. That the personal estate has been
exhausted in iiie payment of the"debts 6f the said George -Deneale, in a regular courie of administration,--and that there is
VoMI.
4F

586

SUPREME COURT,

(Ariher et aL t. Dencale et al.)
nothing left to pay their debt but the real estate, which the bill
alleges is expre8sly'iiharged by his will with the payment of it,
in a certain event;' which event it is alleged has happened, to
wit, that,the property of James Deneale has been sold, and the
deficiency of it to pay the debt ascertained.
The bill prays an account of the personal estate and of the
balance due to the domplaiuants on their said judgment,* and
that so much of the real estate of the said George Deneale as
will be necessary to pay:what'is due them, may be decreed in
pursuance to his will, to be sold, and the proceeds applied to
pay that balance, and for general relief.
Mary Deneale the executrix, in her answer admits the judgment-against the testatoi- as security for James Deneale: That
the said James Deneale had reduced the claim considerably
below what is demanded by the bill. That her testator died
pos8essed of a large personal estate, consisting principally of
bahk and other stocksi' standing in his name, which have been
claimed by Conway W¥hittle and others, as apecocally belonging
to them, by a suit depending in the Courtof Alexandria county.
She states, if the bank and other stock claimed as before stated
shall be decided to belong to the estate of her testator, there
will be personal estate sufficient to pay his debts. If they should
be decided to belong to the said 'Whittle 4nd other, then there
will not be a sufficiency of .Iersonal estate to pay all hii debts,
if his estate is bound to pay this"demand of the complainants.
She denies that the real estate of'her testator is charged in
any event with the paymefit of the debt due to the complainants. That hc never intended to make any such charge upon
it-and that upon a fair construction of the will no such charge
is authorized by it.
The defendant Nancy P Denealel by. her guardian, ad litem,"
ai~swei-s substantially as the executrix has. To their answers is
a g 'neral replication and issud.
The other defendants being non-residents, there is an order
of publication against theu, and the'bill taken for confessed.
The commissioner made his report, Which shows that-he has
charged'the executrix with the appraised value of the personal
estate, including the stocks, instead of the actual value as
proved by the sale of all the personal estate, except the stdcks.
which are claimed by others. It -will appear from the circumstances detailed by the commissioner, if the stocks ate excluded, that the executrix ha& paid more than the value of th personal estate, including debts due to her testator and received by
her.

The will, which is made an exhibit, is dated 13th of rebruary.
1815, and is admitted-to record lth July, 1818.
By his will the testator gives to his wife" all his estate real

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

1587

(Archer et I. w.Deneale et al.)
and personal during her life for the use and p wpose of raising'
and educating his children until they respectively are twenty-,
one." He directs'that each child shall, at that age, become entitled to an equal'portion of his 'estate both real and personal,
"subject each to a deduction of one-third of the same" 'to be
retained for the sIhpport and maintenance of his wife. He recommends to his wife to sell the. 'negroesfora term of~years.
He directs that -an,appraisement only of his -estate" shall be
made; that no sale of furniture shall take place. He then states
that he is indebted to "no one, and proposes to continue so."
He states that he is security for his brother James for two sums,
for which he has a deed of'trust on his property, rufficient he
hopes to pay the same.' He then directs that his". estate shall
not be sold to pay these debts until the propertyso deeded shall
be sold"-when his' ' etate must be charged with any deficienvy." He directs that his executrix and executor should
not give security, alleging that his own debts did not require
it.. He closes hij will by giving a gold ring of fifty dollars value to a friend, and a bank share to the Masonic 'Lodge.
After a hearing on the bill, answer,, the will of George Deneale, and the report of the commissionersi the Circuit Court
dismissed tlIe bill with costs.

The'only question for the decision of the Supreme Court,
was whether George Deneale had, by his will, charged his
real estate with the-payment of the debt due to the complainants
below, the appellants in this Court.
Mr. Swann for the appellants.The testator charges his estate with the residue of the debt
which may ifemain due to the executor of Stump. The words
are-

"-Idirect that my estate shall not be sold to pay these

until tbe property so deeded shall be sold,-'when my estate debts
must
be charged with any deficiency."

The term "estate," ' includes real as well as personal property, and wyhere there is nothing to qualify the word "estate" it
will carry real as well as personal property. 8 Vez, Jun. 608.
'Having then said his "estate" must be charged, we must
look into the will, and see whether there is any thing there to

qualify the term.

The testator devises to his wife "all his estate," both real
and personal, during her life.,' The reversionary interest is
left to take its legal course.
He then directs "that an appraisement only of my estate be

made, and that no sald of furniture shall take place."

The meaning of this would depend upon extraneous circumstances. Estate here Was intended to be the personal estate.
Then comes the clause, "my estate must be charged with

588"

SUPREME- COURT.

(Archer et al., vs. Deneale etal.)
the deficiency." What was his meaning? The term estate is
competent to effect this intent. :In making a construction, the
Court will make a man do what is morally just. 3 Fez. 551.
Whenever a testator wills that his debts shall be paid, that rides
over every disposition, wletheragainst heir'or' devisee. S Vez.
379.
-Mr. Lee for the appelles.-,
The first question is, what was the real intention of the tes.
tator? That intention must prevail. 2d. It is alleged that the
directiol-that on a certain contingency his " e state must be
charged with any deficiency," was to pay the particular debt of
the plaintiff; and that the word " e state" included his real
estate.

It is true that there are many cases" in which the -word
CC
estate" in a will, has been held to convey "real estate" even in
fee simple. But these words, and every form of expression,
whereby a testator declares his will in respect to the disppsition
a will
of his property, must submit to the rule which
1 the requires
testator, where
intention of
to be construed agreeably to the
it can be collected from the whole will. 2 oper on )1'lls, 619.
The case of Woolman vs. Kenworthy, 9 Fez. 1a7, is very
analogous to the present case. The general principle decided
in that case y was, that under the general word "estate" in a
will, real-estate Will pass, unless restrained as was in that instance, by the intention collected from the whole will.
Then construe the will 'ofMr. Deneale by this rule, and by
these cases; it is plain that he has not charged his real'estate,
in any evdnt, with the payment of this debt- Cited also Shaw

vs. Bull, 1-.Mod. Reports.

M~r. Chief Justice MARsH ILL delivered ihe opinion of the
Court:This suit was brought in the Circuit Cou't for the District
of Columbia, sitting in the count) of Alexandria, to subject the
lands of George Deneale to the payment of a debt for which he
was surety. The sole question arises on the construction of
his will. The complaina'tts contend, that it charges his lands
with his debts.
By his will, the testator gives to his wife "all his estate real
and personal, during her lire, for the use and purpose of raising and educating his children, until they respectively are
twenty-one." He directs, that each child shall, at that age, become entitled to an equal portion of his estate, both real 'and
personal, -*"subject each to a deduction of one-third of the
same," to be retained fbr the support and maintenance of his
wife. lie recommends. to his wife, to sell the negroes for a
term of years. Ife directs that an appraisement only of his

JANUARY TERM; 1898.

589

(Archer et al vs. Deneale etal.)
estate 11,shall be made, that no sale of furniture'shall take
place.", He then states, that he is indebted to no one, and purpose s to continue so. He states, that he is uret' for his -brother James, for two sums, for which he'has a deed of trust on
his property, sufficient he hopes, to pay the same. He then
directs that his estate shall not be sold to pay these debts, until-the pvgperty so deeded shall be sold, whn his estate must be
charged with any deficiency.' He directs that his executor and
excutrix should not give security, as his own debts did not'
-equire it.
That the word "estate ' is sufficiefitly comprehensiye to
embrace property of every description, and will charge lands
with debts, if used with other words which indicate an intentidn to charge them, is a proposition which cannot be controverted. As little is it to be denied, that the word alone, if not
used with an intent to subject the lands of the testator to the
payment of his debts, cannot have that effect.
In the will -under consideration,'the testator alludes in-two
instances to his property, generally; in both hi uses the words
"estate," b'oth "real and personal." In the next instance, the
word estate is introduced alone,, in the clause which follows:
"item, I do hereby direct, ,that an appraisement only of
my estate be made, and that no sale of furniture shall thke
place."
In Virginia, lands are never appraised, and the law directs a
sale of all perishable 4rticles. When, therefore, the testator
directs that an appraisement only of his estate be made, ancf
that no sale of furniture shall take plaoe, he obviously applies
the term, ekclusively, to that kind of property, the appraisement of which is directed by law, and is usual; and, by adding the word "only," restrains his executors from selling that
property *vhich is directed by law to be sold. In this clause,
the word estate is plainly confined to personalty. He then
speaks of the debts 'for which he is surety for his brother
James, and directs that his "estate" shall not be sold to pay
these debts, until the property conveyed to ,him in trust shall
be -exhausted. This direction is obviously restrictive. It .restrains the execufors from using a power'they possess under
the law. That power is to sell the 'personal estate for the payment of debts, but it does nbt extend to the sale of lands; con,sequently, the word estate, in this'plade, also designates only
personal estate. After this prohibition to sell his estate, until
the trust property should b6 all applied to the object, he adds,
"when my estate must be charged with any deficiency."
There is no foundation for the opinion, that the testator has
usea the word estate, in this part of the sentence, in a.different
sense from that in which it was used in the same sentence imo

590

SUPREME COURT.

(Archer et 21. tv. Deneale et al.)
mediately before, while treating of the same subject. The
same estate, the sale of which he had just.forbidden until a
particular event.should take place," must, he says, be sold
wheli that evynt shall take place. He means only, his personal
estAte,
Jit would, we think, be: an entire perversion of the language
used by the testator, to cbnstrue these words a charge upon
his estate. He does not intend to create any liability, which
the law had not creeate4- When the trust property shall be exhausted, his. estate, he says, "must be charged with the defi.
ciency." He can-no longer prevent its sale.
We think there is no error in the decree, which declare
that -the will of George Deneale does not charge his real estate
with-his debts, and that the bill of the compraifiants be dis-.
missed.. with cots, dnd'that the said decree be affirmed.

