JANUARY TERM, 1828.

JoHr TAYLOE, PLAINTIFF IN ERAOR,
AN IN

vs. ELISHA RIGGS,

DrED--

ERROn.

The rule of law is, that the best .6idence miust be given, of whibh the nature of the thing i capable; that is that no evidence shall be receivei,
which pre-supposes &reater evidence behindin the pirty's pdisession.or
power. The withholding of that better evidence raises £presumption, that,
if produced, it might not operate in favour of theparty who is called upon
for it. For this Teasbn, a party who is in possession-of an original paper,
is,n'ot permnitted to give acopy in evidencdortoprayeits contents. {596?
The affidavit ofa party to te cause, ofthe loss or~destruction of an original
.paper; offeredin order tointroduce secondary evidence of the contents of
the paper, is proper. If such affidavit could not be received of the loss
of a written cohtract, the cbntent'd of which-are-well known to othert, or
'a copy of which can be proved, a part,'mightbe completely deprived of
his rights, at least in a Court of Law.14596}
It is a sound general rule, that'a liarty cannpt be awitness in, hisown cause;
but many collateral questions arise-in the jarogress oku cause, io wbich-the
rule does not apply. Questions which do not involve the matter in controversy, but matter which is AwuiliaiyTo the tria1d nd which facilitates
the prepatation for it, often depends on the oath of the party. An iafidavit of the materiality of a witness for the p poseof.'obtiining a continuance, or a commlission to take dep ositiofts, or'ar affidavit of his. inability to
attend, is usually made by the artys,and received without objection. Onincidental questions, which do not affect the issue to be tried by thejury,
the affiXavit ofthe pArty is redeivcd. {596}
The testimony w:hich establishes the loss of a paper, i addressedto the Cotiif,
-and does not relate to the contents of the paper. *Itisa fact wbich may
be important as letting the party in to prove.the justice of the cause', but
does not itself prove any thingin the cause.
9--,
"
This acttlnrbeing upon a written contiaot sai4to have-been lost or deitroyed, ana notfor deeitznd imposition, the plaintiff"s"4ght.to recover is
measured priicip'lly b the contricti and the secondary evidenceinust
prove-it as laid in the declaration. The ponversation which preceded the
agreement forms noparof it. not.are the, prop9sitiops or representations
which wre made'at'the time, but not introduced ihto'the written contract;
to be taken into view intc6nstruing the instruminent itself.. Hadthe written
paPer stated to be' lost -or milaid, been produced, neither party could
,have beeni permitteil to how -the party's induconent to make it, or to
substitute his understanding for the agreemnt itself. If he Txs dravn
into it by misreptesenfation, that circumstance might"fiirnish him With a
differen%action, but cannot affect this. 15981
When a written contract is to be proved, -not by itself but by parol testimo.
nY, no vague uncertain recdllection coniqernihgits stipulations; quight fQ
supply the place of the written instrurdent itself ,The-substace'of the,
Agreement ought to be proved satisfactorily; and if that qann6t be done,
the party ia in the condition of every other suitor in Court,-wvho mikes a
claim which lie cannot suppdrt, {600}
When parties reduce thercontracts to writing, the obligations and-rights of
each are described by the instrument itself. Thesafety wihich is expeted
from-them would be nch impaired, if they could be established upon

599.

SUPREME COURT.

(Tayloe vs. Rggs.)
uncertain and vagueimpressions, n4de by a conversation antecedent to
the reduction of tie agreement.- {6001
WRIT of error to the Circuit Court for the county of Washington.
This suit was instituted by t~e -defendant in error in the Circuit Court for the county of Walhington, for the recovery of a
sumpaid by-him to the plaintiff in error, on a purchase of 7462
shares of stock in the Central Bank of Georgetown and'WashinttQn; the plaintiffin the suit 'alleging, that he had paid to the
extent of three per centum on the said stock, upon a contract,
tha-t if the Bank'sho'uld not declare 4 dividend which would reayhim the said three pericent.,'that the same should be refunded ta him. The contract h'ad been reduced to writing, and
had afterwards been 'lost, mislaid or destroyed by the plaintiffi.
The declaration contained three coupts; I. Stating a conversation between the plaintiff and the defendant, concerning
the sale of the stock, held by the defendant in. the bank; and
that in the conversation it was- agreed, that the defendant
shodld-sell to.the plaintiff th.siares held by him at par; that
the.defendant'represented that a dividend would be made on
the game, of four per cent., and stated that the plaintiff should
advance and pay to -the defendant, so much of the dividend as
had the. been earned by the baik; and that confiding in,
the
said representations, and believing the diyidend would be made,
he7 the plaintiff, agreed' to advance the slxppgsed earnings of
the stock, which gccording to a calculation amounted to three
per cent., and a memorandum .in. writing of the agreement wvas
then made;. the stock Was then. transferred to the plaintiff, and
he paid the defend nt the par price ofthe sane, and advanced
or paid to hIn the sum of l90 being the supposed earnings
at the time
of the
the time
the contract-that
of
the bank,
contrac,
theatbank
had' of
made
no profits on which
a dividend
could ibe
delared, ior did the 'bank,
on the regular day of declaring
thkeid
any dividend
pon thsaid
stock
~by
oTfwvhichfor
the,the
defendant
became
bound
summeans
so advanced
supposed
earnings
of to
therefund
bank. the
2.

Count
indebitatrtsassumpsit,
assumpit, fr imoney had and received. 3.
Count indeitats
for money-laid out,
dc.
O
f
f the cause, William Hebb was offered and examined,
s'ubject
to excepti6ns
to hisintestimony
as athe
witness
on
the
pat of
the defendant
in error,
relation to
contract
between the parties. This evidence is fully stated in the opinion ot the Court.The defendant below requested of the Court certain intructions which were refused, and a bill of exceptiors to this refusal was allowed y the Court. A verdict and judgment havi2.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.
(Tayloe w. Rigg)
been given for the plaintiff below, the ease was brought by writ
of error from this Court.
Mr. Charles Carter Lee and Mr. Jones for the plaintiff in
error.
1. The plaintiff below had not laid asufficient ground for the
introduction of the secondary, evidence, which he afterwards
produced. The written contract describ'ed in- his affdavit, is
not that proved by the parol evidence, - but'differs from it essentially. As the contract described was an executed contract,
that proved-by parol testinony was executory.
.a.The contract described in the affidavit, was one upon
which an action for a tort might be sustained, and that pitoved
was in contract.
8. If the secondary evidence was admissible, William Hebb
was not competent' to lrove the contract; he does not recollect
the terms of the contract, and is not therefore a witness to
prove it. Fox's lessee vs. Pp1mer, 2 DaL 214.
He had not r.ead it, but had heard it read, which, as has been
decided, was equivalent only to reading-a copy., 1 Camp. 193.
1 ,&ark.Pep. 167. This uncertainty as toxthe contents of the
contract, and that there was within the process of the Court a
witness who had made out a copy, are also objections to his
testimony. Nor does the evidence, shoiv with any disinctness, an agreement to do what was claimed -by the plaintiff
below.
4. The evidence was hot admissible.upon eithet-count-f the'
declarat on, as the testimony given varied from the adlegdta
in both; and the effect of the evidence Would be 'to explain'a
written contract, which cannot bedone by parol. This evidence
can only be given to explain an ambiguity. Cope vs. Atkins, 1
J'rice, 14S, and also 404 in the same yolume.
That evidence also showed the contract to be executory, and
not a contract to refund or pay the dividend, for breach of
which indebitatus assumpsit will not lie. Cutler vs. Powell, 6
'T . 30. 2 Petersdoff,418. Cook vs. Munstone, 4Bos.
ll.
.351. Leeds vs. Burrows, 12 East; 1.
Nor does the declaration allege a contract to refund the dividend, nor any consideration sufficient to raise such a contfact.
The judgment being general, ifany one count was bad, the jud gment must be arrested. 6 T. Rep. 691. A sale of the supposed.
profits of a bank-does not, ex vi termini, inclaiie an agreement to
refund them, if no profits are made; nor are representations of
the prospects of dividends the subjects of an'action.
Mr. Swann and Mr. Key for the defendant inerror.
After the decision of the Court below,. the only question in
the case is, what was the agreement of the parties. It was a
sale of stock at par, and of the dividends; and the defendant in
Vor.. I,
4F

594

SUPREI

E COURT.

(Tayloe vs. Riggs.)
error did not get the dividends which he had advanced to the
plaintiff in error, and there was an implication thatthey should
be repaid- The evidence was contradictory, and was proper for
the jury.
As to the admission of parol testimony to explain written
evidence, it is an -established principle,'that the acts of the par.
tics at the time of the making of the contract may be proved
by parol. Many casds -might be cited to establish this principle.
As to the breach of the contract, and the liability of the plaintiff irierror, the books of the bank show that at the time of
the sale of the stock, no profits were made; the plaintiff in error having been president of the bank, knew this, and he knew
thit the three per cent,' beyond the par value of the stock was
an wadvance, and must be repaid, and this may be recovered by
indebitatasassumpsit.
Mr. Chief Iustice MARSHAI.T. ,delivered the opinion of the
Court.This action was broughit in the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia, by Elisha Riggs, the 'defendant in error, to recover back a sum of money paid on -a contract for the purchase
of stock.
The declaration contained two counts; the first, on the contract, which was in writing; .the second for money had and received by the defendant, to the use of the plaintiff.
At the trial; the piaintiff in the Circuit Court, offered testimony to prove the conltents of the contract, having first given
notice to the defendant to produce the duplicate copy which
had bene delivered to him, when it wis executed, and made
ar aflaavif'that the copy which had been retained by him,
- was either destroyed or lost.
The 'secondary evidence was admitted, the defendant in the
Circuit Court reserving all objections, both to its admissibility
and competency.
The first count in the' declaration states a conversation between the--parties on the 15th -of May 1818, concerning the
sale of the stock, which the said John Tayloe held in the Central Bank of Georgetown; and alleges, that it was then and
there agreed, that-the said J6hn should sell to the said Elisha, the stock which he held in the said bank, amounting to
7642 shares at par; and further, that the said John represented
that a dividend of four per cent. would be made on the said
stock, at the ensuing first Monday in July, 'and insisted that
the said Elisha should advance to him, in addition to the par
value, 4so much of the said dividend as the said stock had already earned, which according to a calculation then made,

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

595

(Tayloe vs. RBiggs.)
amounted to three per cent. The declaration further alleges,
that the said Elisha, confiding in the representations- of. the
said John, did agree to advance the supposed earnings of the
said stock. The agreement was-then reduced to Writing, and
signed by the parties. It was further agreed, that the said Elisha might confirm or annul the coltract in
days.. The
declaration further states, thai, confiding entirely to the representations of the said John, the said Elisha did agree to confirm the said-agreement and did agree-to buy the said stock,
at par price, apd to advance to the defendant the profits, which
the stock Was supposed to have earned.
The declaration then charges, that the stock wa's transferred,
its par value paid, and the additional sum of tlihtee f5r cent.,
its supposed earnings, amounting to 1902 dollars, paid- The
declaration further charges, that at the time of the contract,
the bank had made no profit on which a dividend could be de-.
clared; and that it was not competent for the said bank, on the
said first Monday in July, then next following, to -declare any
dividend; and, that in fact the -bank did not declare any dividend on the said stock, of-which the siid defendant had&notice.;
by means whereof he became liable and bound to refund- tfid
money so advanced, for the supposed, earnings 'of the saidstock, and being so. liabe,'he in consideration thereof assumed, &c.
William Hebb, a witness produced, by the plaintiff below,
deposed, that he came into a room in which the parties Were
sitting, wheit the said-Tayloe informed him, that the said Riggs
was about to purchase his stock and he requested the-witness
to take a seat and be an evidence to the contr ct. The said
Riggs then asked the said Tayloe what. were his terms?* He
answered that he would take par; with the dividend. which
would.be declared at the next peribdical term, which he thought
would be four per cent. Mr. Riggs said, he supposed Mr. Tayloe
meant only the interest which had .accrued at that time, to
which Mr. Tayloe assented; a calculation was.,then made, and
the supposed profit estimated at three per cent. The plaintiff
asked time to'consult his friends, and said he would take the
stock on the terms offered.. The-plaintiff, at-tle request of the
defendant, drew up a memorandum of the agreement, which
was read over hastily iri
the presence and hearing of the wtness. It was copied, signed, and attested .bythe witness, and
each party took one.
He understood; a day or two afterwards, that the contract
was affirmed. On being cross-ekaiined, the witness saiCd that
he did not recollect whether .the written contract expressed
that par was to be paidfor the stock, nor that any advance upon
the stock was specified; nor does he recbllect, how the Pontract

SUPREME COURT.
(Tayloe

58:

Riggs.)

was expressed But his impression and belief is, that the underitanding of the parties was that three per cent. was to be
Said upon acontinfency tfiat the next'dividend amounted to
our per cent., and that the written contract was to the same
effect.
The counsel for the defendant below, objected both to the
admissibility and competency of this testimony: but the Court
overruled his objections, apd permitted it to go to ihe jury.
To this opinion he excepted.
The first question to be considered, is, whether parol testimony, could, in this case, be let in to prove the written contract.
The rule of law is, that the best evidence must be given of
which the nature of the thing is capable ; that is, that no evidence shall be received, which presupposes greater evidence
behind, in the party's possession or pover. The withholding
of that better evidence, raises a presumption, that, if produced,
it might not operate in his favour. For this reason, a party
'who is in possession of an original paper, or who has it in his
power, is not permitted io give a coF y in evidence, or to prove
its contents.
When, therefore, the plaintiff below offered to prove the contents df the written contract on which this suit was instituted,
the defendant might very properly require the contract itself.
It' was itself superior evidence oT its contents, to any thing depending on the memory of %yitness. It was once in his possession, and the presumption was that it was still so. It was
necessary to do away this presumption, or the secondary evidence must be excluded, How is it to belone away? If the
loss or destruction of the paper ean be proved by a disinterested witness, the difficulty is at once removed., But papers of
this description 'generally remain in possession .df the party
himself, and their lss. tgn be known in most instances only to
himqself. If his own affidavit cannot be received, the loss of a
written contract, the contents of which are well known to
others, or a. copy. of which can be proved, would amount to a
gomplete loss'of his rights, at least in a Court of Law. The objection to receiving the affidavit of the party is, that no man
can be a witness in his own cause. This is undoubtedly a
sound rule, which ought never to be violated. But many collateral questiois arise in the progiess of a cause, to which the
rule does'not apply. Questions which do not involve the matter in controversy, but..matter which is auxiliary to the trial,
which facilitate the preparation for it, often depend on the oath
of the party. An- affidavit to the materiality of a witness, for
the purpose of.obtaining a continuance; or a commission to
take. his deposition, or. an. affidavit of his, inability to attend,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

597

(Tayloe w.Riggs.)
is usually made by the party, and received without objection.
So, affidavits to support a motion for a new trial -are often received. These cases, and others of the same character which
might be adduced, show, that on many incidental questions
which are addressed to the Court, and do not affect the issue
to be-tried by the juty, the affidavit of the party is receiv-ed.
The testimony which establishes the loss of a paper is addressed to the Court, and does not relate to the conten.ts of the
paper. It is a fact which may be Ifmportant as letting the party
in to prove the justice of the cause, but :does not itselt prove
any thing in the-cause. As this fact is generally known only
to the party himself, there would seem to be a necessity for
teceiving his affidavit in support-of it..
In the Courts of Common Law of Englbnd, we find'some
cases, in which the affida vit of a party has been received,respeciing collateral facts which occur in the progress of a cause;
and in Courts of'Equity, it is usual when'a bill is filed to set up
a written instrument which is lost, to annex dn affidavit to the
bill, that the instrument is lost. In For~es vs. Wale, I ;Sir TF
Black. R&ep. 539, the plaintiff offered a: bond in evidence, attest:
ed by two witnesses, on proving the death of one of them; but
being.himself examined, acknowledged the other to be living,
He was nonsuited. It cannot be doubted,,that had he sworn
the other subscribing witness was deadl he would have been
allowed to prove the bond. In Morrow vs. Saundersi , Moore's
Rep. 671, the plaintiff was permitted to have access to a
paper in the possession of the opposite party, on his own affidavit that there was no copy or counterpart. in his possession,
nor had tAere ever been one between the parties, except that-in
possession, of the defendant In Jackson vs. Frier, 16 Johin. 193,
the Supreme Court of New-Yfork indicated the opinion, that
secondary evidnce might be admitted to prov6 the contents of
a paper, on the affidavit of the'party to its loss. Mr. Chief Justice Spencer, in delivering the opinion of the Court, -uoted
Got/bal, 193, in which the Court refused to permit the depositions*of witnesses taken in a'suit bdtween the -same partiesi'to
be read, unless affidavit -be made that the witnesses were dead;
and also Godbolt, 326, in which the Court said, that if the party
cannot find a witness, he is as it were dead unto him; and his
deposition, in an English Court, in a cause between the -same
parties, may be allowed to be read to the jury, sp as the party
make oath.that he did'lt endeavour to find the witness but that
he could not.
In the former decisions in this cause; 9 Wheat. 483, this question wa, we think, substantially,.tlimgh not expressly'determined.
When we-compare the mischief to-be apprehended from the

598

SUPREME COURT.

(Tayloe vs. lliggs.)
admission of secondary proof, on the -affidavit of the party,
where there is reason* to believe that other testimony to that
fact cannot be adduced, with the mischief to arise from the absolute exclusion of such an affidavit, we think the views of justice'will be bcst promoted by allowing the affidavit, not as conclusive evidelce, but as submitted to the consideration of the
Court, to be weigh.ed with the other circumstances of the case.
In the-case before the Court, it is not probable that any other
testimony of the loss of 'the paper was attainable;" and we think,
the affidavit of the party laid a proper foundation for the admission of secondary evidence. Secondary evidence having
been'properly admitted, and the transfer of the stock and the
payment of the purchase 'money -proved, the next inquiry is into its competency, to psthblish the contract stated in the declaration.
• This not being an action for deceit and imposition, but-on a
WNritten contract, tne right of the plaintiff to recover is measured precisely bythat contract, and the secondary evidence must
prove it as laid in the declaration. The conversation which
preceded the agreement forms nb part of it, nor are the'propositions or representationa which were made at the time, but
not introduced into the writtcn contract, to be taken into view
in construing the instrument itself. Had the written paper been
produced, neither party could have bgen permitted to show hig
inducements to make it, or to substitute his understanding of
it, for the agreement itself. If he was drawn into it by misrepresentation, that circumstance might furnish him with a different action, but cannot affect this.
.Discarding the representation made by the vendor of the profits of his stock, we' are, to'inquire what was the actual agree;rneit. The declaration states a parol agreement to sell and purchase-the st6ck at.par But this agreement appears not to have
been definitive, sinice a sale of the stock wQuldpass it in its-tnen
condition, compreliending the dividends to be thereafter declared upon it. The-parties therefore proceed tO a consideratio' ol that part of the subject, which respects, the profits; and,
after concurrig in the opinion that the tock was worth par,
independent of theiext ensuing dividend, which-they supposed'
Would'lW fi per cent. calculate how much of this sum was already earned. Theyfound that three per cent. was the propor-tion of tNis estimated profit, which had accrued at the date of
the sale: The whole contract, thus cbmpleted, was reduced, to
writing and'signed by the parties." It is a contract to sell all'
.the.bank stock bf the-vendor,'ratng the 'stock itself at par, and
the dividends which had already acrued thereon, at three per
cent. No stipulation' was made to return this sum,of three per
cent. or a part of it, if no' dividend or i less dividend than four

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

599

(Tayloe vs. Riggs.)
per cent. should be declared, nor to add to the sum, if a larger
dividend should be declared than was estimated by the parties.
Does the testimony offered by the plaintiff in the Circuit
Court prove this contract?
A conversation was in its progress between the parties respecting the sale and purchase of 'the stock, when the witness
came into'the room, and was requested to notice their agreement. Mr. Riggs then asked Mr. :rayloe, what were his terms?
Mr. Tayloe answered that he ,ould take par, with the dividends
which would be declared 'at the next periodical term, which lie
supposed would be four per cent. Four per tent. was assumed,
as the dividend which would be declared,. and*three per cent.
was estimated as the portion of that dividend which had already accrued. ' This proposition was accepted, and the -agreement reduced to writing.
If the declaration counts on one entire 'contract for the sale
of the stock, including the dividend upon an estimate of the
stock, at par, and. the approaching dividend at fourper cent.;
the testimony supports it: if the declaration counts on two distinct contracts, entirely independent of each other, this paf t of
the testimony does not support it. The witness describes a sift
gle contract, consisting, it is true, of two distinct items, but
both are c6mpreheiided in the same agreement.
On being cross-examined, the witness shows a very imperfect recollection of the contract he is endea'vouring to describe.
He does not recollect that par was to be paiW, nor tbat any advance on the stock was specified in the contract. - But his impression and belief is, that three per 'cent. Was to be paid upon
a contingency that the next dividend amounted to four per cent.
and that the written contract was to the same effect;
This part of thltestimony shows, that what the witness had
previously said, was founded on his recpllection of the conversation between the parties. which formed the verbal agreement,
not on his recollection of the writing itself. He does not remember the terms in which the written contract was expressed;
nor that par was to be paid for the stock; nor that any advance
was specified, Mie believes that the written, contract conformed to the verbal agreemdnt, and on this belief is foundedhlis
impression, that the three per cent. was to be paid on a contingeqcy that the next dividend should -amount to four per cent.
Yet, when we refer to his description of the conversation which
constituted the verbal agieement, no part of the consideration
money is stipulated to be paid on a contingency.
The declaration does not state a contingent contract; iior is
any inference to be drawn -.at it was contingent, from any part
of the declaration, unless it be from the use of the word "ail-

SUPREME COURT.
(Tayloe a. Riggs.)
vance," which word, or any other equivalent to it, the witness
does not remeniber.
When a written contract is to be proved, not by itself but by
parol testimony, no vague uncertain recollection concerning its
stipulations ought to supply the place of the written instrument
itself.- The substance of the agreement ought to be proved sa•tisfactorily; and if that cannot be done, the party is in the condition of every pther-suifor in Court, who makes a claim which
he cannot support.
WNVhen parties reduce their contract to
writing, the obligations and rights of each are described, and
limited by the instrument itself. The safety which is expected from them, would be'much impaired, if they could be established upon uncertain and vague impressions made by a conversation antecedent to th6 reduction of the agreement.
A part of the testimofiy came out on the cross examination,
which serves to show on what uncertain ground the belief- of
the Witness was founded, that the three per uent. depended on
the c6ntingenc that th ndxt dividend should amount to four
per cent. He, was asked, whether the writing was, as deposed
by another witfiess, in these terms, or in terms to this effect:
"I bind myself to receive at any time within three days, three
per cent. advance upon my stock in the Central Bank of
Georgetown and Washington." He answered that the writing,
as recollected by him, was the ieverse of the terms above.propounded, inasiuch as the writhig described by him bouhd the
defendant to transfer- the stock. This answer would indicate,
that the written contract bound the vendor -to transfer his
stock; -at aily time within, three days,. at three per, cent. ad-

Vancp-.
Upon the most attentive comparison we can make of the testimony given by Hebb, with the contract stated in the declaration, we'think that his evidence does not support the contract
as laid, and was therefore ,Aot competent to sustain the first
count.
The second count, for money had and received, is not supported by any express promise to refund-the money supposed
to be advanced on account of the dividend, if less than four
per cent. should b6 declared, or if no dividend should be
made. It rests on the promise which the law implies, where
the consideration totally fails. If the written contract compre- '
hende4 the dividend, with the stock itself, so that an advance
of three per cent. was given for the wliole, the circufstince
that this entire agreement Was founded on a calculation of the
sepa1ate value of the distinct parts, which were the subject of
it, would not entitle the purchaser to recover upon this count,
because the consideration would not totallyfail. Could the contract for the dividends be considered as entirely distinct from

JANUARY TERM, 1S28.

601

(Tayloe es. Riggs.)
that for the stock itself? The Court is not prepared to say, that
a mere speculative bargain, where the parties know that they
are treating for a thing of uncertain value, which depends on
unknown contingencies, and may greatly exceed their estimate,
or may be nothing; where the purchaser knows that he buys a
chance, as a lottery ticket; is a bargain on which the law will
raise a promise to refund the purchase money, if the tohsideration should fail. It is therhfore the opinion of the Court, that
the testimony does not show a contract which supports the second count.
The defendant in the Circuit Court then gave evidence to the
jury. tending to prove that thi contractlwas a mere purchase
of stock, at an advance of three per cent;; and then moved the
Court to instruct the jury,- "that the evidence given by the
plaintiff, either taken by itself, or in connexion with that of
the defendant, is not competent and sufficient to be left "to the
jury, as evidence that the said written contract continued to be
executory after the transfer of the stock by the defendant to
the plaintiff, and the payment therefore by the plaintiff, as stated by the plaintiff's evidence; nor that it contained any stipu.
lation or condition,, that the three per cent. advance on the
said stock, was paid or agreed to be paid by the plaintiff, on
a contingency that the next dividend amounted to four per
cent.; or that the defendant should refund, to the plaintiff, the
three per cent. advance upon the par value of the stock paid
by-the plaintiff, as aforesaid, in the event of there being n6
dividend declared upon such stock, at the then next ensuing
regular period for declaring such dividend. The Court.refused
to give this insfruction, as prayed, being of opinion; that so
much of the said contract' as relates to the advance of the
three'per cent.-'portion of the dividendis executory, in so far
as regarded the. implied assumTpsit of the defendant to reffind
the said three per cent. dvance,'in the"event of there being no
dividend on the said dividend,.day." .
It is probable that the Circuit Court might not have .intnded to express an opinion respecting the effect of the testimony
laid before the jury, but We think such, an opinion is expressed,
The Court declares that so much of the said contract as relates
to the advance of th,e three pir cent. portion of the dividend, is
executory. ,inso far as it regarded the implied as8umpsit of the
defendant to refunil, 8cc.
These words, we think, determine that the testimony established this implied assumpsit. On the question, whether such
a contract was proved as 'did raise this assumpsit, there was,
undoubtedly, much conflicting testimorik, and the CoUirt erred,
as we think, in declaring that opinion: to the jury.
After several proceedings in Court, which it is unnecessary
4 G
VOL. I.

6o

SUPREME COURT.

(Tayloe v. Riggs.)
to mention, as they do notmaterially affect the merits of the
cause, the plaintiff prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that
if from the whole evidence the jury should be of opinion, that
the defendant in his written contract, did agree to sell his stock
at par, and to take the earnings which the said stock had made
in lieu of the dividend, which he stated and represented would
he declared at the next dividend day; and if the jury should be
farther of the opinion, that the plaintiffdid actually advance to
the defendant the amount (f the sail supposed earnings of the
stock, under a belief created by the defendanE, that such dividend would be made, that then the plaintiff -would be entitled
to recover back the iilbney so paid- under such mistaken im'pression, if -the jury should find from the evidence that there
was no such dividend .declared jand that the ;aid stock had not
at the time of the said contract, earned-any such supposed interest or dividend.'
This instruc'tion was ultimately'given by the Court. In discussing its correctness, it is necessary to recollect that this is
an action on a written contc'not for deceit ormisrepresentation in making that contract. The ifiquiry then. is, what was
the contract? Not how it was obtained. The. representation
then of the'-seller respecting the nxt dividend, and the belief
of the purchaser, may be discarded, from the case; and our
'attention must be confined to the contract as stated in the prayer
of counsel. The jury were instructed to find for the plaintiff, if
they were satisfi'd froni the-evidence 4hat th defendant in his
written contract agreed to sell his stock at par; and to take
the earnings which the said stock had made, in lieu of the dividend to be declared at the next dividend dayi 'and if they
should also be satisfied that the plaintiff did actually advance to
'the defendant the amount of the said supposed earnings of the
stock, under a belief thatsuch dividend-would be made. This
instruction, when given nn the naked contract stripped of that
alleged misrepresentation which forms no part of it, cannot, we
,think, be supported.'
We. are therdfbreoof opinion, that thcre is error in the proceedings of the Circuit Court,, and that the judgment ought to
be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court, with
directions to set aside the verdict and award a venire fadas d&
novo.
This cause came on,. &c. on 'consideraio. -whereof, This
Court is of opinion that there is er~orin the several instructions
given by the. Circuit 'Court to the jury, in this, that the'said
Court instrpqted the jury that the evidence given by the plain,tiff in that Court,. was competent to support both Ahe first and
second counts in the declaration; and als in this, that the said

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

603

(Tayloe wr.Riggs.)
Court instructed the jury, that so much of the said contract as
relates to the advance of the three per cent. potion of the dividend is. eikecutory, in so far as regarded the implied aosumpsit
of the defendant to refund the said three per cent. advance, in
the event of there being no dividend on the said dividend day;
and also in. this, that the said Court instructed the jury to find for
the plaintiff, if they should be satisfied from the evidence that
the defendant in. his written contract agreed to sell his stock
at par, and to take the earnings which the said stock had made
in lieu of the dividend to bp declared at the next dividend day,
and that in fact no. dividends were made. Wherefore it is considered and adjudged by this Court, that the said judgment be,
anol the same is hereby reversed and annulled, and that the
cause be remanded. to the Circuit Court, with directions to
award a venirefacias Lte novo, and to take other proceedings
according to law,

