SUPRED&E COURT-

ROBERT STEELE'S LESSEL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V . JESSE SPENCER AND OT{ERS, DEFIDANTS' IN ERROR.

A decree of the Supreme Court of Ohio ordered that the patentee of a
certain tract of land. should, within six months, make a deed, &c. with covenants of warranty ronveying a portion of the land held under a patent to the
complainants in that suit, and on the failure of A to make the said deed,
&c. "that then and in that case, the complainant shall hold possess and
enjoy the said portion of land, in as full and ample a manner, as ifthe same
had bheen conveyed to him." The decree of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
by which a conveyance of land is directed to be made, the decree being
according to the laws of Ohio, vested in those to whom the deed was ordered to be made, sucha legal title to the land to have been conveyed by
the deed as would have been vested by a deed of equal date; -and the re.
gistry Act of Ohio applies %,swell to a title under such a decree, as it
would do, if the party held under a bona fide deed of the same date with
the patent of the land, and the decree gives a legal title as ample as a
deed. {5581
The registry Act of Ohio directs that all deeds made within the state shall
be recorded within six naonths ftom the time of the actual execution
thereof, and declares, that if any such deed shall not be recorded in the
County where the land lies, within the limits alowed by the law, "the
same shall be deemed fraudulent and veid, against any subsequent pur
- chaser for a valuable consideration without notice of" such deed. {559
In the construction of the registry Act of Ohio, the term "purchasers," is
usually taken in its limited legal sense. It means a complete purchaser,
or in other words, a purchaser clothed with a legal title. 15591
It is not necessary that a deed made to a subsequent bone fide purchaser
without notice shall be recorded to give it operation against a prior un,
recorded deed, as by the provisions of the registry Acts the prior deed is
declared in itself absolutely void as against such parchascr. {5601
Whether erasures ahd alterations in a deed are matecial or not, is a question
oflaw to be decided by the Court. 15601
The 6onstruction of words belongs to the Court, and the materiality of an
alteration in a deed, is a question of construction. [561s

THIS was a writ of error to the Cii'cuit Court of the United
States for the district of Ohio, 'to reverse the judgment of that

Courtin favour of the defendant in error, in an action of ejectment instituted by the plaintiff in error, to recover a tract of
land in Perry cbunty, i the state of Ohio.
The title claimed and exhibited by the plaintiff in the ejectment, was originally derived under a patent from the United

Sttes to Jesse Spencer, dated November 15th 1811; wlo with
George Spencer and others, were the heirs at law of Thoma:Spencer deceased; and in order to show the title acquired bt
the patent, he offered in vidence a deed from Jesse Spencer.
the patentee, and Catharine his wife; to Willizim Steele. pur-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

553

(Steele's Lessee vs. Spencer et Al.)
porting to bear date the 20th of January 1818; and which appeared on that day by the certificate on the deed, to have been
acknQwledged before a justice of the peace. "William Fulton,
bne of the subscribing witnesses, proved, that he attested the
deed in the office of Jesse Spencer, but could not state when;
that William Steele was not present; that he knew nothing of
the purchase of the land by William Steele from Jesse'Spencer;
and that he saw no more of the deed, until about one year ago,
when Spencer and Steele were together, and Spfencer produced
the deed to 'see if the witness would recognise his signature."
Wherever the name of William Steele appeared,. either in the
body of the deed, or the- label thereon; it manifestly appeared
to have, been written on an etasure, and with ink of a different
colour, as did the words "Ross" and "Ohio," in describing
the place of residence of said Steele. ' The alterations on the
face of the deed were not accounted for by any testimony. This
deed was not recorded in the county where the land lies, or elsewhere. The plaintiff further offered in evidence, a deed from
William Steele, and Sarah his wife, to Robert Steele the lessor
of the plaintiff, bearing date the 7th of July A. D. 1821. Also,
the deposition of John Daragh, to prove the-execution of said
deed; which deed and the certificate and acknowledgment thereon, and also the deposition of John Daragh,. were also not recorded..
The defendants in the ejectment were in possession of the
land, and they claimed to hold it under a decree of the Supreme
Court of the state of Ohio, for Ross county, sitting in Chancery, rendered on the 3d of January 1820, in a proceeding by a
bill filed in.
Perry county, and, under advisement in Ross county, by the heirs of Thomas Spencer, deceased, against Jesse
Spencer and others, by which decree Jesse Spencer was ordered to convey the land in controversy, to certain of the parties in.
the said bill, upon their full compliance with the terms and conditions stated in the said decree. The decree also proceeds as
follows: " It is further ordered and decreed, that if the complainants shall within the time specified, deposit and pay to the
clerk of Perry county aforesaid, the several sums of money
aforesaid, and interest thereon, as aforesaid, and the defendant,
Jesse Spencer, shall fail to make out, execute and deliver to said
clerk, a deed for nine-tenths of the land aforesaid, within the
times aforesaid, in manner aforesaid, that then and in that case,
the heirs at law aforesaid, to whom the land aforesaid is decreed
to be conveyed, in manner aforesaid, shall hold, possess and enjoy, nine-tenths of the half section aforesaid, to them, their heirs,
and assigns for ever, in as full and ample a manner as though the
same were conveyed to them by the said Jesse Spencer, defendant,
in manner aforesaid." "It is further ordered. th.04tJsse Spencer,
, rO.L, i
4A

554

SUPREME COURT.

(Steele's Lessee s. Spencer et al.)
the defendant, pay the costs of the suit-in seven months from
the date of *thisdecree; And ifhe fail so.to do, that then execution or executions issue in the same manner as executions issue
on judgments' at'law. It is further ordered and decreed, that
the bill as to the other two defendants, to wit, William Spencer and James Spencer,is dismissed without costs, and that the'
clerk of the Supreme Court for Ross county, enter this decree
of record in the said Supreme Court of Ross county, and that
he transmit a copy of this decree to the clerk of the Supreme
Court of Perry county, it being in the same county from which
this cause-was removed here or decision, .and that ,the same
be entered of record in the Supreme Court of the said county
df Perry, in.the same manner ib-if the cause had been there
heard and decreed. Itis further ordered and decreed, that if
the money is not paid and deposited in manner aforesaid, and
within the timeaf6resaid, that then these complainants shall
ay all the costs of the suit."
The defendants also exhibited evidence.of their having fully
complied with all the requisites of the said decree, by the payment of the sum of 524 dollars, the amount decreed -to be paid;
and also that the decree was duly recorded in the proper office
for recording of deeds of the county of Perry, on the 24th July
1822.
After the evidence was closed, the Court, on the motion of
the counsel for "thedefendants, instructed the jury as follows:1. That the decree of the Supreme Court of the state of Ohio,
given in evidence in this cause by the defendants, vested in them
such a legal title to the land in question, as would have been
conveyed .by deed of equal date from Jesse Spencer, the patentee, and that the registry Act of Ohio,. applies as well to
the title of the defendants, under the said decree, as it would do
if they hdld under a bona fida deed, of the same date from the
said .liatentee.
2. That if the eldor deed be not recorded within the time
spdcified by the- registry Act of Ohio, it is wlolly void, as to
subsequefit bona flde purchasers, without notice of the existence
6f such deed.
5. That it the deed from Jdsse Spencer to William Steeie,
was altered in a material part, after it was sealed, attested, and
acknowledged, such alterations absolutely avoid the deed, and
it can convey no title to the lessor of the plaintiff The counsel of the defendantobjected to those parts of the instructions
contained in the first and second specifications. They submitted to this Court the following points:.1. The Court below erred in charging the jury,, that the registry Act of Ohio applies-as well to the title of the defend-

IANUARY TERM, 18.

555

'(Steele's Lessee w. Spender et aL)
ants, under the decree set forth in the bill of exceptions, as if
they held under a bonafide deed of the same date.
,2. The Court below-erred in charging the jury, that if the
deed fro u Jesse Spencer to William Steele, w~s altered in a
material part, after i was sealed, 'attested, and acknowledged;
such alteration absolutely avoids the deed,'and it can convey
no title to the lessor of khe plaintiff. BecauseI. Such an alteration, if made with6ut the consent of the
grantee, would not avoid the deed, and divest the estate vested
by the execution of the deed in the grantee.
2. An alteratioii of the de6d made with the consent of the
grantee, could .not divest the estate conveyed by the deed,
and revest the. same in the grantor.
The case was argued by Mr. Leonard, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Ewing, for the defendants.
For 'the plaintiff, it was insisted, that the registry Act of
Ohio applies exclusively to' purchasers by deed, and does not
include and protect those who hold in virtue of decrees in
chancery. Under the statute regulating proceedings in chancery, a suit may be instituted to obtain a conveyance either in
the county in which the land is situated, or where the defendant maybe found.
The action and the counts in the declaration, .are in rem vd
personarz, and jurisdiction is acquired by the possession and
control of the subject matterr or of the person. As the registry
the Courts of one county
Act does not require decrees made ifn
to be recorded in the county where the land is situate, neither
does it extend its protection to,purchasers under such decrees
-or if it enibraces other purchasers than, those by deed, it
protects- all subsequent purchasers, and szibsequent purchasers
alone.
Those cannot be considdred subsequentpurchasers, who were
.efore the execution of unrecorded deeds vested with equitable
titles, which afterwards were enforced by suits in chancery. Such
purchasers by decree, do.not come within themischief of the,
registry Art. Such a construction would be forced; andinconvenient; as the purchasef by deed, on recording his deed,
or by giving notice, pendgnte life, in chancery; and even after
decree rendered, and 'before the expirati~n of the time limited
for the execution of the conveyance, although after the lapse
of six months; would bring his .deed within the protection of
the Act, and defeat purchasers by decree. If the chancery
suit had been instituted against Steele, as well as Spencer, the
complainants could not have obtained-a decree. A party might
in this way obtain a good title, by his omission to embrace proper -parties in his 'bill in equity. A defective title might thus
be made good during the progress of the suit, and indeed a

556

SUPREME COURT.

(Steele's Lessee vs. Spencer et al.)
title invalid at the rendition of the decree, valid in a month at-

ter-

res acquirit eundo.

This construction would make the statute penal; punishing
the party for his laches, in 6 itting to record his deed, instead
of simply a protection of the rights of others. All the mischief to be guarded against by the statute, was effected by the
execution of the deed; and the omission, seasonably to record
the deed, could not injure one who had a good equitable titlewhich is -subsequently enforced by a bill in equity.
It was also insisted, that the Court erred in charging the
jury, that a material alteration in the deed from Spencer to
Steele, -after its execution, could defeat the title thereby vested
in Steele. It was apparent, on the plaintiff's bill of exceptions,
the Court erred in thus charging the jury, and the Court
'could not look to the 'bill of exceptions of the defendants in
error for any purpose; or if they could, the error was not rectified by a comparison of the facts there stated with the charge.
Cited, Marshal vs. Fisk, 6 Mass. Rep. 32.
Mr. Ewing*for the defendants.The registry Act of Ohio, protects subsequent hona.ide purchasers against unregistered deeds. A -party entitled under A
decree of a Court of Chancery, is a purchaser, in the legal sig.
nification of the term, and is therefore within the letter of the
statute. There can he no iteasn to except him from its operation. He is as much injured by the concealment of a prior
deed, as any other purchaser. Whenever a party is entitled in
equity, to a specific pei'forniance of 'a contract; if the defendant had put it out of his power to perform it, it is important
that the fact should be made known to the party iuterested, that
he may seek otherand more effectual relief, A purchaser under such a decree, is therefore within the spirit as well as the
letter of the Act.
The Cdut-t did not err in charging-the -ju'ry-that the defend..
ant's title took effect from the date of ihe decree.
Courts of Equity in Ohio, in settling the title tQ real pro.
perty, proceed, in rem, not inpersonam. It is true, they direct
the party to execute a deed,'but they do not compel him by
attachment, to do so. If he refuses, the decree operates as a
deed, and the res sita'gives jurisdiction to the Court. The decree of the Court fixes the title to the property. The time allowed for the conveyance, relates merely ,to the transfer of the
evidences of title, and the possession, and the deed, if made
pursuant to the decree, relate to the date of the decree itself.
If no deed. be made, the title by the' decree relates. Thus, if
the party against- whom a decree is rendered should die, or being a feime sole, should marry before the period fixed for the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

557

(Steele's Lessee vs. Spencer et al.)
execution of a title; it is believed that the decree would operate without further proceeding to vest the title.
.- 2. Deeds for the conveyance-of real estate in Ohio, derive
their validity solely from statutory provisions. No Common
Law mode of transferring real estate, (except by operation of
law,) is recognuised. Linley vs. Coates, 1 ham. Rep.
Neither is the statute of uses, which in Tnigland gives validity to the deed of bargain and sale, in force in Ohio. Deeds
therefore to be valid, must be executed according to the provisions of the statute of that state; and if they are deficient in.
any of the requisites pointed out by that statute, they creat; no
legal title.
That Act, (92 vol. Ohio Laws, p. 218,) requires the grantor
to seal and acknowledge the deed in the piesence of two witnesses, who subscribe their names, and .also his solemn acknowle'dgment before a judicial officer. The deed in question'
was not proved to have ever been executed with all these formalities. But if, after this due ex'ecution, it were altered in a
inaterialpart, normatter byWhom, or with whose consent; it was
no longer the same deed. ,Pigot's case, 11 Rep. 27. Mr. Justice TrImBLE delivered the opinion of the Court.This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse a judgment of
the Circuit Court, for the district of Ohio, rendered in -favour
of the defendants, in an action of ejectment instituted by the
in the Court beiow,
plaintiff in error against the defendants,
county,
to recover a tract of land in Perry
On the trial of the general issue, which was joined between the
parties, the'plaintiff gave in evidence a patent from the President of the United States to Jesse Spencer, dated the 1th of
November 1811, for the land in controversy: a deed of conveyance for the land, from Jesse Spencer to William Steele, purporting to bear date the 90th of January 181.8; .ndalso a deed
from William Steele to Robert Steele, dated. the-7th of .July
1821, prior to the institution of the suit.
It appeared, from a certificate onthe dieed from Jesse- Spencer to William Steele, that it had been acknowledged, on the
day of its date, before a justice of the peace; and it was attested by two subscribing witnesses.
The deed from Jesse Spencer to Steele, had never been recorded, either in the county where the land lies, or elsewhere.
Wherever the name of William Steele appeared in the body
of the deed, or in the label thereon, it appeared to have been
written over an erasure, and with ink of a diffierent colour, as
did the words Ross'and Ohio, in describing the place of residence of Steele. This was unaccounted for, by any testimony
in the cause.

558

SUPREME COURT.

(Steele's Lessee vs. Spencer et al.)
The defendants gave in evidence, a record and decree of the
Supreme Court of the state of Ohio, in a cause in which the
heirs of Thomas Spencer and the defendants in -this cause
were complainants, and Jesse Spencer, the 'patentee of the
land, was -defendant.
This decree was rendered by the Supreme Court on the Sd
of January 1820, while sitting in Ross, county, having heard
'the cause in Perry county, wlhere the suit was instituted, and
where the land lies; and having held it under a advisement, as
is the, practice in Ohio, the decree was pronounced in the
cause at Ross c6unty, -and was certified from thence to Perry
county, to be there entered on record in, the suit, in the same
manner as if rendered while the Supreme (;Jurt was sitting in
Perry county; and it was so entered on record accordingly.
The decree was als6 recorded in the office of the recorder
of deeds,.on the 24th of July 1822, in Perry county.
The decree, inter alia, ordered, Jesse Spencer, the patentee
of the land, "within six months from the date of the decree,
to make out a deed with covenants of general warranty, conveying to the complainants in that cause, and defendants in
this, an undivided nine parts out of ten, or nine-tenths, of the
tract of land in controversy; and to deposit said deed, duly
executed, ackno vledged, and attested, with the clerk of the
Supreme Court of the 'county of Perry, within the said term
of six months;, and by the clerk to be delivered to the complainants, upon their paying and depositing with the clerk,
within the said term of six months, certain sums of money,
with interest, as specified in the decree, and that, upon the
failure of' the said Jesse Spencer to make out and deposit a
deed, as above directied, within the said term of six months;
that then and in that case, the complainants shall hold, possess, and enjoy, nine-tenths of-the said tract of land in as full
and ample a manner as If the same were conveyed to them by
Jesse Spencer."
the
said-defendants"paid
. The
and deposite& with the clerk the money' required by the deree, .within the six months, and'took his
'eceipt for the same.
It gippears by"a bill of exceptions tendered by the plaintiff's
counsel, that after the evidence was closed, the counsel of the
defendants moved the Court to instruct the jury, 1st, that the
decree of the Supreme Court of the state of Ohio, given in evidence by-the defendants, vested in-them such a legal title to the
land in question, as would have been vested by a conveyance
from Jesse Spencer of equal date; and that theoRegistry Act of
Ohio, applies as well to the title of the defendants, under the
said decree, as it -would do; if they 1(eid under a bona fide
,deed, of the same date,'from the-patentee.

JANUARY TERM,* 1828.

559

(Steele's Lessee s. Spencer etaM.)
.. That if the elder deed be not recorded within the time
epecified by the Registry Act of Ohio, it is wholly void as. to
subsequent bonafide purchasers, without notice of the existence
of such deed.
Sd. That if the deed from Jesse Spencer to William' Steele,
was altered in a material point after it was sealed, attested; and
acknowledged, such alteration absolutely avoids the deed, and
it can convey no title to the'lessor of the plaintiff: which instructions the Court ga-ve, and the plaintiff excepted. '
The counsel for the plaintiff, relies on the following points
for a reversal of the judgment.
1. The Court below erred in charging the jury, that -the
Registry Act of Ohio applies as well to the title of the defendants, under the decree set forth in. the bill .of -exceptions,
,as if they held under a bonajide deed of the same date.
2. That the Court below erred in charging the jury, that if
the deed from'Jesse Spencer to William Steele was -altered in
a material part, after it was, sealedf attested, and acknowledged; such alteration absolutely avoids the deed, and it ca=
pass no title to the lessor of the plaintiff.
The propriety of the first instrtiction, given by the Court to
the jury, admits not of a doubt.- The statute of Ohio, entitled
1"an Act directing the mode of proceeding in Chancdry," declares "That where a decree shall be made fora conveyance,
release, or acquittance, &c. and the party' against whbm thedecree shall pass, shall not complytherewith by-the time appointed, then such decree shall be cbnsidered and taken in all
Courts of law and equity; to have the same operation and
effect, and be as available, as if the conveyance, release, or ace
quittance, had ben executed conformably to such decree.".Land Laws for Ohio, p. 296..
The Registry Act of Ohio directs, that all deeds made-within the state, shall be recorded , within six months from the
actual time of signing or executing of. such' deeds;" and declares, that if any such deed shall n6f be recorded, in.the county *here .the land, lies, within the t4me allowed by the Act,
"the same shall be deemed fraudulent against. any subsequent
bona fide purchaser, for valuable con'sideration. without nqtice
of such deed."
In the construction of Rdgistry. Acts, the term "purchaser".
is usually taken in its technical, legal.sense." It meansa complete purchoser, or, in other words, -a purchaser clothed with
the legal title. The meaning of the statute is, that-an unrecorded deed, shall, after the expiration of the tiie limited by
the statute, be deemed fraudulent and void, as against all .sub.
sequent purchasers, who may have obtained the legal title, fort

Vaiuable consideration, without notice

The case of the de-,

560

SUPREME COURT.

(Steele's I4 ssee w. Spencer et al.)
fetidants is thet-within the terms of the Registry Act. They
obtained their "decree, 'and paid the purchase money directed
by the decree, without notice; "andthe decree had obtained, by
operition of the 'statute, ill the attributes of a perfect legal
title.
, The argument for the plaititiff on this branch o",the case,
was founded on a suppositi6n, that, to bring the i efendants'
case- ivithin: the terms of the Registry Act, it must be shown
that their,title has.been iecorded, as a deed, and their title being not adeed, but a decree, it is insisted, they are not within
the terMs Qf the statute. This is -a mistake The plaintiff's
deed .nt being 'recorded,- the statue avoids. it in terms,. as
against all subsequent purchasers for valuable consideration,
,without notice, whether their titles be recorded or not. If the
defendants had' held under a conveyance executed 8y Jesse
Speiier, in obedience to the decree, jhbir title deed, although
not recorded, would;- by.the termp of,*the statute, prevail
against the plaintiff'sprior'unrecOrded deed. A deed not be-,
ingrecorded, avoids it as'against subsequent, but not as against
prior. purchasers. By'the laws of the, state of Ohio; the de,ceeobtained by the defendants,.clbthes them'with 'the legal
title in as ample a nanner as a deed. They are purchasers or
valuable consideration, Without notice;' and 'are therefore not
only within the Words, but -also within the spirit and intention
of the statpte.
.
I This reasoning has been indulged Upon. a suppositidni that
the title of the defendants has not been sufficiently Zecorded,
whichis not .admitted: .The decree, ,which is 'their title, Is of
record ir the Chancery suit in. the' proper. .county where the.
-land lies, "andit was recorded in the office. Of-the 'recorder of
ddeds. , Whether this lst"moe 'of recording. thle dgecree is
usually practised. in," Ohio o' trot,' we-re not informed. .Bu6
-we suppoae the defendants had dope all they could do, to commit their title to record in the proper county.
,Thethird'instruction given hy the Court to the juryf which,
forms the seco'nd ground Telied on by the plaintiff's counsel foa-reversal of the jidgment,.cannot be sustained. Although the
prbposition may be.true,' that a material. evasure or alteration
.ina deed, after its .execution,-may avoid the deed, yet, the, in- .
struction ought'not to have been' givenin the terms 'used by
the Court, Whether "erasures and- alterations had. been made
in thi&deed or nat, was : .question: of fact proper to be
teferred-to tlie jury -but whetheir the erasures and alterations
Were inaterial, or not, wag a'question of law which ought to
have"been'decided by the Court. The instrction givenAeferk
the question' ,f materiality to the jury, as well as,the fact of
alteration and erasure.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

"5,61

(Steele's Lessee w. pencer et al.)
If the name of William Steele was inserted in the deed as
grantee after its full execution .and attestation, instead of the
name of some other grantee which was stricker out, no doubt
the alteration was very material, and nothing could in that case
ptass by the deed to William Steele. The two other alterations
supposed, in the Words "Ross" and 'Ohio," in the description.
of the grantee's residence, may have been either material or
immaterial, as, upon a sound construction of -the whole instrument they would or would not alter or change its operation
and effect.
The Court ought to have decided the, question of materiality
in each instance, leaving the fact of alteration to the jury for
their decision. The instruction given, was calculated to mislead the jury by impressing onl them the belief that they were
warranted in finding either of the supposed lterations to be
material, however it may have been in point of law. The construction of deeds belongs to the proyince of the Court; the
materiality of an alteraiion in a deed, is a question of construction; and in this case the, Court committed an error by giving
an instruction to the jury, which imposed on them a difficult
question of construction, upon which the jury ought iohave
been enlightened by the decision of the Court.
.The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and
the cause remanded. with instructions to awvard a venirefacias
dir
no

Vol., I

