SUPREME COURT.

SUNDRY AFRIeAC; SLAVES, Tim GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA, CLAI3rAmNT
1 APPELLANT, VS. JUAN MADRAZO.
THE GoVERNOR OF GEORGIA, APPELLANT, VS. SUNDRY AFRICAN
SLAVES, JUAN MADRAZO CLAIALINT.
In the Disttrict Court of thc United States, for the district of Georgia, a libel
was filed, claiming certain Africans, as the property of the libeliant, which
had been brought into the state of Georgia, and were seized by the authoritv of the governor of the state, for an alleged illegal importation;
process was issued against the slaves, but was not served. The case
was taken by appeal to the Circuit Court, and the gu ¢rnor of Georgia
filed a paper, in the nature of a stipulation, importing to hold the Africans
subject to the decree ofthe Circuit Court, &c. Heldthat such a stipulation
could not give jurisdiction in the case to the Circuit Court; as process
could not issue legally from the Circuit Court against the Africans; because it would be the exercise of original jurisdiction in admiralty, which
the Circuit Court does not possess. {121}
"It may be laid down as a rule, which admits of no exception, that in all
cases where jurisdiction depends on the party, it is the party named in
the record." 1122}
The libel and claim exhibited a dmanid for money actually in the treasury
of the state of Georgia, mixed up with the general funds of the state, and
for slaves in the possession of the government; the possession of both of
which was acquired by means which it was lawful in the state to exercise-Held that the Courts of the United States had no jujvisdiction ; the
same being taken away by the 11th article of the amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. {1231
In a case where the chief magistrate of a state is sffed, not by his name, but
by his style ofoffice, and the claim made upon him is entirely in his official character, the state itself may be considered a party in the record.

11241

THESE dases were brought before this Court, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Georgia,
under the following circumstances.

The schooner Isabelita, a Spanish vessel, owned by Juan Madrazo, a native Spafiish subject, domiciliated at Havana, was
despatched by him with a cargo, his own property, in the year
181Z, on a voyage to the coast of Africa, where she took in a
cargo of slavies.

On her return voyage she was captured by a

cruiser called the Successor, under the piratical flag (f Commodore Aury; the said cruiser being then commanded l-y one
NMoore, an American citizen; and having been fitted out in the
port of Baltimore, and manned and armed in the river Severn,
within the waters and jurisdiction of the United States.
Fhe

Isabelita and the slaves on board, were carried to Fernandina,.
in Amelia Island, and there condemned by a pretended Courc

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

l11

(The Governor of Georgia v. Juan Madrazo.)
of &dmiralty, exercising jurisdiction under Commodore Aury;
and sold, under its authority, by the prize agefit, Louis Segalis, to one William Bowen. The negroes, so purchased by
Bowen, were conveyed into the Cieek nation, in consequence,
as it was alleged, of the disturbed state of East Florida, the
insecurity of property there, and with a. view to their settlement in West Florida; then a province of the Spanish monarchy. Being found within the limits of 'the state of Georgi,
they were seized by an officer of the customs of the United
States, and delivered to an agent appointed by the governor
of Georgia, under the authority of the Act of the Legislature
of that state, passed in conformity tq the proVisions of the
Act of Congress of March 1807, prohibiting the importation
of slaves into the 'United States; the. negroes having been so
brought into the United States, in violation of that Act.
Some of the negroes were sold by an order of the governor,
without any process of law, and the proceeds paid over tq
the treasurer of Georgia. The residue of the negroes are in
possession of an agent, appointed by the governor of Georgia.
The Isabelita was fitted out as a cruiser at Fernandina;
taken by Moore to Georgetown,. South Carolina; seized there
by the United States, sen round to Charleston' libelled in the"
District Court of South Carolina; and, by- a decree of that
Court, restored to Madrazo, the claimant.
The governor of Georgia filed. an information in the District Court of the United States for the district of Georgia;
praying that a part of these Africans, which remained specifically in his hands, might be declared forfeited, and may be
sold.
A 'claim was given in, in this case, by William Bowen;
Juan Madrazo, the libellant in the other case, did fiot claim.
The decree of the District Court dismissed the claim of
William Bowen, and adjudged the negroes to be delivered to
the governor of Georgia, to b6 disposed of according to law.
William Bowen appealed to the Circuit Court, by which
Court his claim was dismissed; and from the decree'of that
Court, dismissing his'claim', he has not appealed.
Juan Madrazo filed his libel in the District Court-of Georgia; alleging, that a Spanish vessel called. the Isabelita, having
on board a cargo of negroes, was, piratically captured'on the
high seas, carried into the port of Fernandina, there-condemned by some pretended tribunal, and sold;-'that the negroes
were conveyed, by the purchaser, into the Creek nation/ where
they were seized, by an officer of the United States, and by him
delivered to the-government of the state of Georgia; pursuant to
an Act of the General Assembly of the state of Georgia, car.
rying into effect an Act of Congress of the 'United States,-

SUPREME COURT.
(The Governor of Georgia w. Juan lklrazo,).

that a parteof the said slaves were-sold, as permitte1 by said
Act of C6ngress, and as directed by said Act of th General
Assemblye of the said state, and the proceeds thereof Ideposited
in the treasury, of the said state;-tiat part of the s 'dslaves
remain undisposed of, under the control of the governor of the
said state, or his agents; and prays restitution of said slaves
and 'proceeds. Claims.were given in by the governor bf Georgia, -and by William Bowen. The District Court dismissed the
libel, and the claim of William Bowen. From this appeal,
Juan Madrazo appealed to the Circuit Court.
.The Circuit Court dismissed the libel and claim of the governor of Georgia, and directed-restitution to the libellant;
and from this decree, appeals have been takeir by the state-of
.Georgia, and by WilliamBowen. A.warrant of arrest was issued by the District Court, but was never served. A monition
also-issued, and was served, on the governor and treasurer of
the state of Georgia.
In the Circuit Court, the following proceedings took place:
On motion of, the proctors bf the libellant, Madrazo, ordered, that he hava leave to renew iis warrant, for the property
libelled; but it shall be held a sufficient execution of 'such warrant, if the governor, who appears "as claimant, in behalf of
the state, will sign an acknowledgment, that he holds the same
.sujpet to the jurisdiction of this Court,1
Whereupon the following instrument was filed, December.
24th, 1823,:-Executive.Department, Milledgeville, May 151h 1823,
The executive having been furnished by the deputy marshal
with the copy of an orderpassed by the Circuit Court of the
-nited States, in relation Jo certain Africans, the title to which
is. a matter of controversy in said Circuit Court, and also in the
.Super~ior Court'of the county of Beldwin, makes the following
statenlent and acknoWledgment, in satisfaction of said' order
knd notice;
Libel in admiralty, against
Juan Madrazo
sundry African negroes.
"IVS.
"Sundry Africans.
The governor of the state, of Georgia acknowledges to hold
sundry African negroes, now levied on, 6y virtue of sundry
executions, by the sheriff of Baldwin, county, subject to the ordter of the Gircuit Coit'of the United States, for the district
of Georgia; after-the claim of said sleriff, or prior thereto, if
tle claim in the said Circuit Court shall be adiudged to have
.prioritY f th6 proceedinginthe, state Court.
1o.nm CLARc. Uovernor.
."

JANUARY TtRM, 1828.

t"2

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
Documentary evidence was introduced in the Court below,
and witnesses were examined, which proved the interest of
Madrazo In the Isabelita; the illegality of the capture and condemnation; and which were intended to prove the identity of
the negroes, the subject of the proceedings, with those who
had been on board the Isabelita.
On the part of Juan Madrazo, it was contended.1. That his proprietary interest in the slaves, and the illegality of the capture, and condemnation of the Isabelita and
cargo, were fully proved, and that he is entitled to restitution
of the propertylibelled.
9. That the Court below had jurisdiction.
S. That the possession of the property libelled, the service
of the monition, and the order of the Circuit Court, and agreement of the governor of Georgia, filed in that Court, fix the
parties in possession of the.property for it; and that the-process of the Court will operate on them hidividually; and not
on the state of Georgia.
On the part of the state qf Georgia, it was contended.1. That the Court below had no jurisdiction.
2. That there is no sufficient proof of proprietary interest, to
entitle Juan Madrazo to restitution of the property libelled.
William Bowen was not represented by counsel, before the
Court
As the decision of the Court was exclusively on the question
of jurisdiction, no other than the arguments of counsel on that
question are given.
Mr. Berrien, on the part of the state of Georgia.1. The Circuit Court of the United States had no jurisdiction
in the case, it involving jurisdiction over the state of Georgia.
Jurisdiction cannot be claimed on the ground of consent; it
cannot be obtained by the voluntary appearance of the governor of Georgia to the libel of Madrazo, and he had no right
to give jurisdiction. The exemption of a state from the jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States, is for the preservation of their sovereignty; it is an attributd of sovereignty, and
it is no objection to the exception being taken, that the appearance was voluntary. The governor of Georgia could. not yield
up this attribute of the sovereignty of the state; his agency
being limited by the Constitution. A party may object to the
jurisdiction of the Court below, to try a cause which he himself
instituted, Capron t)s. Van Noorden,2 Cranch,126. This question
is therefore to be considered as unaffected by the appearance
of the governor of Georgia.
The I1th article of the amendments to tht Constitution. 4f
the United States, takes away the jurisdiction of the Courts o6f
the Union, in all cases in law and equity, in which claims are
VOL. I.
P

.I14

SUPREME COURT.

(.the Governor of Georgia vs. Juai Maldrazo.)
preferred against the separate states; and the amendment wa.
intended to leave to the several states the adjustment of th,
claims of individuals upon them; Cohens vs. State of Virginia, 6
Wheat.;264. The judicial power of the Courts of the United States, is, by the amendment, prevented from extending to
any suit, commenced or prosecuted, Stc., against a state. t;
Wleat. 964. 407,408.
The alterati'on in the Constitution was not made by revoking
a power which the Courts possessed; but the amendment de
clares, that "the judicial power shall not be construed to exterd
to Suits, 4-c.;. and it'denies that such a power ever existed
Why is not a suit in the admiralty a,suit at law?
It proceeds according to the law of the country, and in the
Courts of the, country. The laws which govern and regulate
,he decisions of the. Admiralty Courts, are the laws of the
Union.
It is -agreed, that, according to the doctrine in Fowler vs.
Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411, the state must be either nominally, or
substantially, a party to the suit. It is not enough, that the
.suit may. in its result, consequentially affect its interests.
The state of Georgia is a party in the proceedings of Madrazo r.a citationis prayed to the state; and the property which
the' libellant seeks to obtain, by'the decree of the District Court,
is in the possession of the governor of Georgia, under the
authority of a law of the state; another part is in the treasury
of Georgia, and has become mingled with the general and public-funds of the state-T he process of the Court was served on the
governor and treasurer of the state: and they are required to
show cause, why restitution shall not be decreed. The law of
the United States of 1807, prohibits the importation of slaves;
and directs, -thatif slaves are brought in, they shall be seized,
and delivered to the governor of the state in which the seizure
is -made. The governor of Georgia appointed an agent,to receivelthem; and the libel states the slavwes aimed, were delivered to the agknt of the otate. The right of the state of Georgia,
acquired under that Act, is spread on the record by the libellant;- and" it is, this right,, so acquired; which he seeks to divest, The state .of Georgia is, therefore, a party to this suit,
-because the res is in her P'1sKession; and the monition issued
below, wap served, upoil the governor and the treasurer of the
state.
The jfirisdiction is also denied; because a.,judgment of the
Court would operate ditectfy on the state of Georgia. Madrazo
should look to. the legislature of Georgia for redress; and the
appeal to her justice, is not to be made through the Court's of
the United States.
The terms.of the amendment to the Constitution-its spirit,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

115

(The Governor of Georgia a. Juan Madrazo.)
and the views heretofore taken of it, by this Court; are all, opposed to the construction now claimed, whidh will except from
the 6peration of the amendment, cases of admiralty jurisdiction. Proceedings in the admiralty, are suits at law. 'Does the
admirelty proceed without:law, according to the will of-the
Judge? The forms of its proceedings are according to the Civil Law;-the rights of the parties are decided according td the
law of atiOns, and the law'merchant; and both on its prize and
instance side, according to the municipal laws of the country
where it sits.
The objections made by the states to their liability, before
the amendment to the Constitution, was not to the mode by
which the suit was instituted; but to the fact of their being
made answerable to the Courts of the Union,
To 'restrict the amendment. to cases of Conmon Law and
.Equit1 , would not, therefore, have afforded an adequate remedy to the alleged grievance. Nor was the restriction established with a reservation as to claims, by foreigners; neither was
it intended to leave uninfluenced by it, cases which might arise
out of a state of war. Many of the suiti which had been
brought, and which might- have been brought, before tke
amendments, were instituted by foreignerq; or -were of a nature _to be prosecuted in the admiralty. The construction
claimed by the opposite counsel, would exhibit the extraordinary fact, that while the amendment took away the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in suits against states, it left it in
the lowest Court under the Constitution.
Nor does the exemption of the states from suits in the admiralty, authorize apprehensions of internal difficulties. In cases
of captures at war, on the high seas, by whatever ship of yai
or armed vessel, acting under the authority of the Unitdd
States, the capture. may be made, no -right could be acquired
bi rapture, to the property, by a state; the right to the property, is that of-the sovereign who makes the war; and, but for
the Prize Act, by which the property captured is condemned
and distributed, it would remain the property of the sovel'eign.
Cited, Osborne vs. The Bank of-the United States, 9 Wheat.
157-8; likewise Cohens vs.'The state of Virginia, 6 Wh eat. 264.
But if the amendment to tbp Constitution doed iiot extend to
cases of admiralty juri0 uiction; the. jurisdiction of this case
would be in the Supreme Court, and therefore, - there -is 'error
in these proceedings.
2 The Court below, never had possessioti of the r s, or a-ny
thing pertaining to it. The warrant of arrest' issued in theDistrict Court, was never -erved. The Court relying -on the
service of the rmonition, which was erroneous.

116

SUPREME COURT.

(The Goverlor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
The re8 remained in the possession of the governor of Geor.
gia,'without any agreement for its production.
The proceedings in the District Court, not having beenfound.
.ed- upon, the re,3 and the service of the monition not having
been legal; the Circuit Court could not have jurisdiction on the
appeal. As an appellate Court, it could, by no proceeding, get
possession of the rest"and the case should have been remitted
by the Circuit to the District Court.
The provisions of the Act of Congress of 1807, which apply to this case, were not repealed by the law of 1818.
The repeal applied to ionportations by sea, and these slaves
were brought into Georgia by land.
Mr. Wilde, for Juan Madrazo, made these points.1. That the Court -below had jurisdiction.
2. That the proprietary interest of Madrazo, in the Isabelita, and slaves, and the illegal outfit of the Successor, are
sufficiently proved; and he is consequently entitled to restitution.

The original grant of jurisdic'ion, in such cases, to the
Courts of the United States, is ample. 2d sect.; 3d art. Cons.
U. S. The admiralty jurisdiction is, " of all cases of admiralty,
a maritime jurisdiction," generally, without restriction; whether they arise under the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the
United States, or'the law of nations.
- The grant of common law and equity jurisdiction, is confiaed to cases arising under the constitutional laws and treaties of the Union. Before the amendent to the Constitution,
the Courts of the United States must have taken cognizance
of admiralty cases; although a state were directly interested,
or even a party on the record.
Even since the amendment, there are cases in which it is
presumed these Courts may take jurisdiction, although a state
be a party. The second clause of the tenth section of the second article of the Constitution, prohibits the states from keeping troops, or ships of war, only in time of peace. In time of
war, they may. During actual hostilities, there is nothing to
Prevent a state from fitting out a ship of war, or even a fleet,
or defence, or annoyance; and the lawful prizes made by such
a fleet, it is presumed, would be the property of the state-a
state may exercise this power. Congres have the right to
make rules concerning captures. Such rules are the si-preme
law. But if all captures, made by state cruisers, are to be
tried. in state tribunals, how long could the rules of Congress
concerning captures be enforced; or the belligerent rights of
the Union be exerted, without the'violation of justice to neutral nations ?
To the great powers of war and peace, must be attached

JANUARY TERM, 188.

117

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Macbazo.)

those of making war efficient, and peace secure. Unjust.udgments, unredressed, are among the causes of war. But if the
state tribunals are to decide in the last resort, upon captures
made by their own vessels, where neutral claimants are concerned; the whole may be involved in war, by th misconduct
of a part.
This Court will not adopt such a construction of the amendment, unless it is forced upon them, by its terms.
The language must be clear, strong, and peremptory, which
coerces its adoption.
The grant distinguishes between common law and equity
jurisdiction, and admiralty jurisdiction. They are given by
distinct clauses, and to a different extent; and are' tre'ated as
separate powers. If they are so considered-if the three are
separately granted, distinguishing each from the other, and
two only are'taken away; does not the third remain?
If the District Court were proceeding without jurisdiction,'
how has it happened, that a prohibition was not moved for?
It would lie, in such a case. U. States v8. Pete s. 3 Dall. 121;
and an appeal might be taken on the decision. Cohen vi. Virginia, 6 ff7ieat. 397. The counsel referred to Publicus, No. .80,
and to the debates of the conventions, on adopting the Constitution. But, supposing the amendment extends to, and excludes, admiralty, as well as equity and common law jurisdiction ; is this a case, where the state is a party defendant on
the record, or in which her rights are directly implicated; and
the process of this Court must go against her? In foirm, the
state is not a party--the information and claim, are by John
Clark, Governor, in behalf, &c. The proqeeding, if state interests are implicated, is not against a state, but by a state; the
state, if a party at all, is the actor. In substance, it is a judicial proceeding, at the instance of a state; in which she seeks
the aid of the United States' Courts, to give effect ito a title
claimed in her behalf, under the United States' Laws. In ef,
fecty'the sentence and process of the'Court, *ill operate not'
upon the state, but on individuals. Osborne vs. The Bank ofthe United States. 9' Weat. 738, and the United States vs.
Bright , 3 m. Law Jour4 216.
Has the- state of Georgia really any interest in thnse Africans? The claim set up, is under the Act of Congress of 1807,
prohibiting the ilave trade; which places Africans illegally imported, at the di4&sitlon of the state 'into which they are
brought; and the*Act of Georgia of November 1817U, ordering
them to be sold, unless taken by the, Colonization Society, and
all expenses since capture iml condemnation paid. Before, any
decree upon this information-before it Was even filed, all that
part of the Act of 1807, under which Georgia -could derive
atiy title, was repealed. Act of 1818. -Ing.Dig.

.SUPREME COURT.
(The Governor of Georgia v8, Juan lidrazo.)
The title to. property forfeited, or liable to forfeiture, is not
.divested, till it is libelled and condemned; and if there be an
appeal, not until sentence of condemnation is rendered in the
appellate tribunal. Yeaton vs. The United States. 5 Cr. 281-3.
If the statute creating the'forfeiture, be repealed before final
senten e, without reserving the right to punish cases arising
uilder it, condemnation cannot take place, Schooner Radhael
vs. The United, States, 6 Cra. S29. The Irresistible, 6 4Weat.
551.
Until the condemnation, the state has no right to the Africans.
After condemnation, indeed, the importer's title is divested,
by relation, back to the act of forfeiture. But until condemnation, -his title is not divested.
The right of the state, depends upon the result of a judicial
investigation; which, when a forfeiture is ascertained by final
gentence, gives it relation back to the time of the act committed, and from that period divests the importer, and invests the
state,,with his title. But. if pending the proceedings the Act
is repealed, the judicial proceeding necessary to give effect to
the claim of the state, can have but one result.
That claimmust be rejected.
The proposition, that the Courts of the United States have
not jurisdiction in such a case, then, comes to this ;-an alleg8ed right, in a state, though dependent upon the result of a judicial inquiry, may be set up, to preclude that inquiry, upon
the result of. which it depends. -And that, even though the
Court.could look into the question, must determine that no,
right, iri
fact, exists.
Under this Act, there was no authority to sell the Africans
before condemnation; and the money, if in the treasury, is
there by the unauthorized act of an individual, and in violation
of the law.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

Court.Some time in the year 1817, Juan Madrazo, a Spaniard, residing in the Island of Cuba, engaged in the slave trade, fitted out a vessel for the coast of Africa, -which V. zwured a cargo of Africans; and on its return, in the autumn-of 1817, was
captured.by a privateer sail, under the flag of one of the governments of Spanish America, and carried into Amelia Island;
where the vessel and cargo were condemned by a tribunal, established by Aury, the authority of which has not been acknowledged in this- country. The Africans were -purchased by
William Bowen, and were conducted into the Creek nation;

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

1,19

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
within the limits of the state of Georgia, where they weie sized by M'Queen M'Intosh, a revenue officer, at Darien, in
Georgia, early in January .1818, under the Act of 1807; which
prohibits the importation or bringing into the Unitvd States,
of any negro, mulatto, or person of colour. This Act annuls
the title of the importer, or any person, claiming under him,
to such negro, mulatto,, or person of colour, and declares
that such persqins "shall remain subject to anyregulation, not
contravening the provisions of this Act, which the legislatures
of the several states or territories, at any time hereafter, may
make for disposing of such negro, mulatto, or pers6n of -colour."

In December 1817, the legislature of Georgia- passed an
Act, which Ampdwered the governor to appoint some fit and
proper person to proceed to all such ports and places within
this state, as have or may. have, or may hereafter'tiold any negroes, mulattoes, or persons of colour, as have been, or may
hereafter be-seized or condemned under the above recited Act,
of Congress, and who may be subject to the control of this
state; and the person so apppointed shall have fuJI power and
authority to receive all such negroes, mulattoes, or persons of
colour, and to convey the same to Milledgeville, and place
them under the immediate control of the executive of this
state.
The second section authorizes the-governor to sell such negroes, mulattoes, or persons of colour, in such manner as he
may think most advantageous to the state.
The third'directs that they may be delivered up to the CoIonization Society, on certain conditions thereinexpressed; provided the application be made before the sale.
Under this Act, the Africans brought in by William
Bowen, were delivered up to the governor -of Georgia, who
sold the greater number of them, and paid the proceeds,
amountifg to 38,000 dollars, into, the treasuryof the state,
The Colonization Society applied for those remaining unsold,
amounting to rather more than twenty, and 6ffered to comply
with the conditions prescribed in the Act of December 1817.
In May, 1820, the governor of Georgia'filed an information
in the District Court of Georgia, stating the violation of the
Act of Congress, that the Africans were placed. under the
immediate control, of the executive of the state, where they
awaited the decree of the Court, He stattes' the application
made on the part of the Colonization Society, with. which he
is desirous of complying, as soon s he shall be authorized to do,
so by the decree of the Court.
'In November'1820, 'William Bowen filed his claim to the
said Africans, alIeguig that they were his propert-y-that they

120

SUPREME. COURT.
(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)

had not been brought into the United States in violation of
the Act of Congress; but were seized while passing through the
Creek nation, on their way to West Florida.
I In February 1821, Juan Madrazo filed his libel, alleging that
the Africans were his property-that on the return voyage
froim Africa, they were captured by the privateer Successor,
commanded-by an American, and fitted out in an American
port-that the vessel and- cargo were carried into Amelia Island, and condemned by an unauthorized tribunal; after which
they were brought by the purchaser into the Creek nation,
where they were, seized by an officer of the United States- brought into the limits of the district of Georgia, and delivered over to the government of that state, in pursuance of an
Act of the General Assembly, carrying into effect an Act of
Congress, in that case made and provided. That a part of the
slaves were 'sold and the proceeds, amounting to 38,000 dollars, or more, paid into the treasury of the state; and that the residue, amounting to twenty-seven or thirty, remain unxter the
control of the governor.
I The libel denies that the laws of the United States have
been violated, and prays that admiralty process may issue to
take possession of the slaves remaining under the control of
the governor of Georgia; and that the governor and'all others
concerned, shoild be cited to show cause why the said slaves
should not be restored.to Juan Madrazo, and the proceeds of
those which had been sold, paid o*er to him.
Upon this libel a monition was, issued to the governor of
Georgia, who appeared wad fileji a claim on behalf of ,the
state; in which he says, that the slaves were brought into the
state,- in violation of the Act of Congress, and that they were
taken into the possession bf the executive of the state, in pursuance of the Act of the state legislature, enacted to carry the
'Act of Congress into effect. That a number of the said slaves
have been sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury, where
they have become ; part of the funds of, the state, not subject
to his control; or to the control of the treasurer. That the
residue of the baid slaves, who remain unsold, have been demanded under the law, by the Colonization Society.
Process was also issued against the Africans, bitwas not executed.. 'The two causes came on together, and the District
Court'dismissed the claim of Bowen,. and also'dismissed the
libel of Madiazo, and directed that the slaves remaining unsold
should be delivered by the -marshal to' the Igovernor. of the
state, and that the proceeds of those -sold, stiould remain in
the treasury.
Both Bowen and -Madrazo appealed to the7Circuit Court.
At the hearing in the Circuit Court; the sentence, disialing

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

121

(The Governor of Georgia v8. Juan Madrazo.)
the claim of Bowen, was affirmed. That dismissing the libel
of Madrazo was reversed, and a decree was made, that the slaves
remaining unsold, should be delivered to him; on his giving
security t,-, transport them out of the United States-and farther, that the proceeds of those which were sold, should be
paid to him. From this decree, the governor of Georgia
and William Bowen have appealed to this Court.
A questi9n, preliminarily to the examination. of the title to
the Africans, which were the subject of these suits, and to the
proceeds of those which were sold,, has been made by thd
counsel for the state of Georgia.. He contends, that this is e4sentially, and in form, a suit against the state of Georgia; and
therefore was not cognizable in the DistriCt Court of te United
States.
The process which issued from the Court of Admiralty not
having been executed, the rea was never in possession of 'thatCourt. The libel of Madrazo therefore, was not a proceeding
against the thing, but a proceeding against the person for ihe
thing. This appeal carried the cause into the Circuit Court,
as it existed in the District Court, when the decree was pronounced. It was a libel, demanding, personally, from -the go.
vernor of Georgia, the Africans remaining unsold., and the
proceeds of those that were sold, which proceeds. had been
paid into the treasury.
Pending this appeal, the governor filed a paper in the nature
of a stipulation, consenting to hold the Africans claimed by
the libel of Madrazo, subject to the decree of the Circuit
Court; if it should be determined .that the claim in the Circuit
Court had priority to sundry executions, levied on 'them by
the sheriff of Baldwin county. Had this paper been filed in
the District Court, it would have been a substitute for the Africans themselves, and would, according to the course of the
admiraltyhave enabled that Court to proceed in like manner
as if its process had been served upon them. The libel would then
have been in ren. Could this paper, when filed in the Circuit
Court, produce the same effect on the cause?
We think it could not.
The paper in nature of a stipulation, is.a. mere.substitute for
the process of theCourt; and cannot, we think, be resorted to,where the *process itself could not be issued according to law.
The process could not issue legally in this case, -because it
would be the exercise of original jurisdiction in admiralty;
which the Circuit Court dbes not possess.
This cause therefore remained in its character a libel against
the -person of the governor of Georgia, for the Africans in his
possession as governor, and far the proceeds3 ji thetreascry, of
Vot.. .
Q

122

SUPREME COURT.

(The Governor of Georgia ta. Juan Hadrazo.)
those which had been sold. Could the-District Court exercise
jurisdiction in such a cause?
Previous to the adoption of the 11th amendment to the Constitution, it was determined that the judicial power of the'United States, extended to a case in which a state was a party defendant. This principle was settled in the case of Chisholm vs.
Georgia. 2 D. 419. In that case, the state appears to have
been nominally a party on the record. In the case of Hollivgsworth vs. Virginia, also, in 3 Dal. 878, the state was nominally
a party on the record. In the case of Georgia vs. Br;ii.ford, 2
Dal. 402, the bill was filed by his excellency Edward Telfair,
Esq. Governor and Commander in Chief, in and over the state
of Ge*orgia, in behalf of the said state., No objection was made
to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the case was considered
as one in which the Supreme Court had original jurisdiction,
because a state was a party. In the case of New York vs. Connecticut, 4 Dal. 3, both the states were nominally parties on the
record. No question was raised in any of the cases respecting the
style in which a state should sue or be sued; and the presumption is that the actions were admitted to be properly brought.
In the case of Georgia vs. Brailsford, the action is not in the
name of the state, but it is brought by its chief magistrate in
behalf of the state.. The bill itself avows, that the state is the
actor, by its governor
There is, hawever no case in which a state has been sued without making it nominally a defendant.
Fo*ler et al. vs. Lindsey et'al. S Dat. 411, was a case in which
an attempt was made to restrain proceedings in a cause depending in a Circuit Court; on the allegation that a controversy respecting soil and jurisdiction of two states, had occurred
in it.
The Court determined that a state, not being a party on the
record, nor directly interested, the Circuit Court ought to pro.
ceed in it. In the United States vs. Peters, the Court laid down
the principle, that although'the claims of a state may be ultimately affected by the decision of a cause, -yet if the state be
not necessarily a defendant, the Courts of the United States
are bound to exercise jurisdiction.
In the case of Osbourne vs. the Bank of the United States, 9
l A7ate.788, this question was brought more directly before the
Court. It was argued with equaL zeal and talent, and decided on
great deliberation. In that case, the auditor and treasurer of the
state were defendants, and the -title of the state itself to the
subject in contest was asserted. In that case, the Court said,
" It may, we think, be laid down as a rule, which admits of no
exception, that in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the
party, it is the party named in the record." The Churt added.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

13

(Tie Govrnor of-Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
the state not being a party on the record, and the Court having jurisdiction over those who are-parties on the record, the
true question is not one of jurisdiction, but whether, in theexercise of its jurisdiction, the Court ought to make a decree
againft the defendants; whether they are to be considered as
having a real interest or as being only nominal parties."
The informatibn of the governor of Georgia professes to be
filed on behalf of the state, and is in the language of the bill,
filed by the governor of Georgia on behalf of the state, against
Brailsford.
If, therefore, the state-was properly considered as a party in
that case, it may be considered as a party -in this.
The libel of Madrazo, alleges that the slaves which he
claims, "were delivered over to the government of the state of
Geofgia, pursuant to an Act of the General Assembly of the
said stat6, carrying into effect an Act of Congress of the United States, in that case made and provided; a part vf the said
slaves sold, as permitted by said Act of Congress, and as directed by'an Act of the General Assembly of the said state; and
the proceeds paid into the treasury of the said state, amounting to thirty-eight thousand dollars, or more.'
The governor appears, and files a claim on behalf of the
state, to the slaves remaining unsold, and to -the proceeds of
those which are sold. He states the slaves to be in-possession
of the executive, under the Act of the Legislature df Georgia,
made to give effect to the Act of Congress on the'subject of
negroes, mulattoes or people -of colour, brought illegally into
the United States; and the proceeds ofthoseunsold to have been
paid in the t. dasury, and to be no longer under his'control.
The case made, in both the libel and claim, exhibits a demand
for money actually in the -treasury of the state, mixed up with
its general funds, and for slavo in possession of the government. It is not alleged, nor is it the fact, that this money has
been brought into the treasury, or these Africans-into the possession of the executive, by any vlolation of an Act of Congress.
The possession has been acquired, by means which it was lawful to employ.
The claim upon the governor, is as a governor; he is sued,
not by his name, but by his title. The demand made upon him,
is not made personally, but-officially.
The decree is pronounced not against, the person, but-the officer, and appeared to have been pronounced against the successor ofthe original defendant; as the appeal bond was executed
by a different governor from him who filed the information. In
such a case, where the chief magistrate of a state is sued, not
by his name, but by his style of office, and the claim made
upon him is entirely in his official. character. we think the

124

SUPREME COURT.

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
state itself may be considered as a party on the record. If
the state is not a party, tMiere is no party against whom a
decree can be made.' No person in his natural capacity is
brought before the Court as defendant. This not being a proceeding against the thing, but against the person) a person capable of appearing as defendant, against whom a decree cani be
pronounced, must be a party to the cause before a decree can
be regularly pronounced.
But were it to be. admitted, that the governor could be considered as a defendant in his personal character, no case is made
which justifies a decree agnst him personally. He has acted
in obedience to* a law of the state, made for the purpose of
giving effect to an Act of Congress; and has done nothing in
violation of any law of the United States.
The decree is not to be considered as made in a case in
which the governor was a defendant, in his personal character;
nor could a decree against him, in that character, be supported.
The decree cannot be sustained as against the state, because,
if the 11th amendment to the Constitution, does not extend
to proceedings in admiralty, it was a case for the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. It cannot be sugtained as a
suit, prosecuted not against the state but against the thing; because the thing was not in.possession of the District Court.
We are therefore of opinion, that there is error in so much
of the decree of the Circuit Court, -as directs that the said
slaves libelled by Juan Madrazbrand the issue of the females now
in the custody of the government of the state of Georgia, or the
agent or agents of the said state, be restored to the said Madrazo, as the legal proprietor thereof, and that the proceeds of
those slaves, who were sold by order of the governor or the said
state, be paid to the said Juan Madrazo; and that the same
ought to be reversed; but that there is no error in sb much of
the said decree as dismisses the information of the governor
of Georgia and the claim of William Bowen.
Mr. Justice JouNsom, ds8sentente.By the new and unexpected aspect which this cause has assumed, in this Court, I feel myself called upon to accompany
the report of this decision wilth a brief explanation. Such an
explanation appears necessary, not less in vindication of the
course pursued by the state of Georgia, than of the judicial
course of the Circuit Court, over which I have the honour to
preside.
By the state of facts, as now exhibited, it would appeal as
if the Court of the sixth circuit of the district of Georgia, had
been taking very undue liberties, both with the executive and
treasury departments of that state; and that two of the gbver-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

195

(The GQvernor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazd.)
ftors of that state, acting in behalf of the state, had first come voluntaily into the Courts of-the United States, and then, only
because the decision of that Court was against the rights they
assertd, repudiated their own act, and denied the jurisdiction
of the, very Court which they-had voluntarily called to decide
on their-rights.
Yet nothing can be farther from the truth of the case. The
real exposition of the incidents to the cause, lies in this;--that
the actual promovent contestatio litis, was the colonizing society;
-that Georgia, at least, in its inception, had no interest in it;
-that the governor only regarded himself as a stake holder, to
the three disputants who claimed the property. The slaves,
as well as the proceeds' of those .which were sold, it is notorious, have, in fact, been delivered up by the state to one of
these claimants.
It is trite, that in this point, the legislature of-the state has
differed in opinion on the question of right, from the Court
that tried the cause, and surrendered them to Bowen,' instead
of Madrazo; but this fact proves, that she was, not contending
for herself.
There is no necessity, however, for speaking out of the record on this subject. The information, as weli- as the claim,
filed to Madrazo's libel, both explicitly avow, that, as to the
slaves remaining unsold, the governor was acting in behalf of
the colonizing society; and had not the decision below been
against their claim, and qn grounds which cannot be shaken,
it is fair to conjecture, that the exception here taken to the.
jurisdiction, would never have been suggested; nor -had that
society possessed a legal existence, so as to prosecute a suit,
inits own name, is there the least reason to believe, that the
governor of Georgia would ever have presented himself, in the'
Courts of the United States, upon this subject.
What could he do? This pr.ap~rty had come legally into the
hands of his predecessor-a part had been sold-and the rest
transmitted to him, specifically. Two parties presented themselves, claiming it in their respective rights; and having been'
constituted by law, the guardian of the rights of one; he pre-sents himself to the only Court that could take cognizance of
the cause) in order to have the question of right decided, before he would surrender the slaves, in his possession, to either
claimant. -The money raised from the sales, lhe disavows having any control over.
But, ii the progress of the cause, incidents occur which produce a total change in the views and interests of parties. A
third party arises, and, on we clearest Froofs and best established principles, has made out the proprietary interest to be in
himself. An appeal is taken to this CoUrt; and pending the ap-

126 1

SUPREME COURT.

(The Governor of Georgia v& Juan Madrazo.)
peal, the party who had failed in'every Court below and must
fail, wherever the rights are subjected to judicial cognizance,
succeeds in prevailing on the legislature to abandon the property to him.
Thus, then, the colonizing society have lost all hopes from
a suit at law; Bowedi has obtained the property; the legislature that gave it to him, can, at least,'feel no desire to have
Madrazo's rights confirmed in this Court; and all became
interested in overturfiing their own work, and crushing Madrazo's interest under the ruins.
It is certainly a purpose which cannot be willingly favoured
in a Court of justice; and I meet it with the most thorough
conviction that the law is not with the appellants, on the pbjections to the jurisdiction of the Court below, which have
now, here, for the first time, been moved and argued.
There are two exceptions taken to the exercise of jurisdiction, in the Court below:1. That a state was a party, Rc.
2. That the jurisdiction of the District Court never attached, because the re8 ulbjecta, was never actually in possession of
that Court.
The. facts were these,--the negroes were certainly brought
into the United States, in contravention of the Act of Congress of 1807. That Act creates a forfeiture, inasmuch as it
divests the owner of all property in the slaves so brought in;
and by another provision, it is left to the states to dispose of
such persons of colour, in any manner*they may think proper,
not contravening the provisions, of that Act. The state of
Adeorgia, by law, authorized their governor to appoint an agent
to receive such persons of colour, and deliver them to the executive, to be sold, unless applied for; by the colonizing society; and if so applied for, then to be delivered into their possession.
These slaves were seized by a revenue officer of the United
States, and voluntarily delivered to governor Rabun, then governor of Georgia; who had sold all, except about thirty, before the society applied to him, agreeably to the provisions of
the Act.
.The Georgia law contains, no express instructions to the governor, how to dispose of the proceeds of.the sales. It authoi.
izes him to sell, after sixty-days notice, "in such manner as
he may think best calculated- for the interest of the stat6;" but
whether for cash, or credit, or to remain -ini or 'be shipped
frdm, the state, be meant by this provision, there are no means
of determining. The money was, in this instance, paid into
the treasury; or, at least,, so the governor alleges, in his claim

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

127

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
io the Madrazo libel; and so we are bound to consider the
facts.
Here. then, was a case of forfeiture, under a law of Con;
gress; and Otfe governor of the state legally authorized to sue
for,. and recover, the thing forfeited, and "when seized and conde mned," as the Georgia law expresses it, to sell it on one state
of facts; on another, to deliver it to the colonizing society. Who
was to sue for this forfeiture; if not the state, or the governor,
as its representative ? The society could not, for it had no existence in law.
The governor accordingly sold the greater part; and his successor filed an information in the District Court of theUnited
States, to have the residue condemned, that he might deliver'
them to that society. To this libel and information, Bowen
filed his claim and answer; and, while that suit was pending,
Madrazo filed his libel in the District Court, praying process
against the Africans remaining in the governor's hands, and
the proceeds of those which were sold. On this libel a warrant of arrest was issued against the slaves, and a monition to
the governor and all conc.erned, in relation to the whole subject of Madrazo's claim.
The warrant of arrest was not served in the District Court:
but governor Clarke, successor of governor Rabun, appeared
to the monition, without protest, and filed a claim to the Afri.
cans, in behalf of the society; as to the proceeds of those
which had been sold, he simply answers, that they had bee
paid into the treasury, where they remained mixed up with the.
treasure of the state, and beyond his control.
The pleadings were in this state, when the district Judge
entered upon a plenary hearing of the case, taking into view
the information of the governor with Bowen's claim, and the
libel of Madrazo with the governor's claim and answer; and
thereupon sustained the information, and dismissed Bowen'
claim and Madrazo's libel.
Bowen and Madrazo appealed; and, on the hearing in the
Circuit Court, where a body of new evidence was introduced;
the decree of the District Court was -reversed, and the infbrmation and Bowen's claim dismissed.
But having proceeded so far, the Circuit Court found itself thus situated.
As the District Court had susta'ined the information,, it
would have been nugatory to enforce its warrant of arrest up
on the slaves, since they were already in possession of the.
state. Madrazo's libel being dismissed in that Court, no further steps were taken, to render the res subjecta, into actual
possession.
Blut,-vhen tbe information was dismissed, afid Myladrazo .

SUPREME COURT.
(The Governor of Georgia ,s. Juan Madrazo.)
libel sustained iti the Circuit Court, it followed, that it was
error in the District Court, not to have enforced the service of
the warrant bf arrest on the slaves, or done some equivalent
act. Thus situated, the Circuit Court could not send back the
cause; because, by the 24th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, the Circuit Court is required to go on and make such
decree, as this District Court .ought to have made. That
Court thought that the obligation to perform this duty, carried
'with it 411 the incidents necessary to perform it, and ordered
process accordingly. To this, the governor again, without protest, responded, by 'voluntarily entering into a stipulation to
hold the slaves, subject to the order of that Court; and then
the Court, considering itself legally in possession of the re8,
made the decree in favour of M adrazo, which is here brought
up for revision.
.On the question of right, upon the evidence before the Circuit Court, there can scarcely be two opinions. The cargo
was Madrazo's-it was captured by a privateer--fitted out in
Baltimore-run into Fernandina-there sold to BQwen-carried
across the. country to the Creek agency, within the limits of
the United States, and where its jurisdiction attached, notwithstanding the Indian title existed-andi although Bowen,
the tortiou sowner, committed an offence by introducing them
into the country; Madrazo was not'privy to that offence, and
was innocent of any act that could work a forfeiture of his
interest
But the question now to be considered, is exclusively that of
jurisdiction; and it is insisted, first, that as the state was a
party, and the party defendant in. both cases, in the Circuit
Court. that Court could 'not maintain jurisdiction of the sub'ject.

, That a state is not now suable by an individual, is a quesf
tion on which the Court below could not have paused a moment. '
The 11th amendment to the Constituti6n, put that question
at rest for ever. But where is the provision of thie'Constitution, which disables a state from suing in the Courts of the
Union?
The second'section of the third article, ei.t_ nds the judicial
power of the United States, to all cases arising under the Law
of the United States, and to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; 'to controversies between two or more states,
between a state and citizens of another state-and between a
state, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens, or
subjects.
It is true, the next seetion provides, that, in all cases in
which a state shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall have

JANUARY TERM, 182S.

129

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan M1adrazo.)
original jurisdiction. But, it is obvious, that original, does nol
mean exclusive; and, in the 13th section of the Judicial Act,
of 1789, it is so treated; since the legislature there declares,
in what instances the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court shi1
be exclusive, and in what concurrent, when .state is a party.
The words of that section are: "The Supreme Court shall
have exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature,
where a state is a party, except between a state and its citizens;
and except also between a state, and citizens of other states,
and aliens; in which latter case, it shall have original, but not
exclusive jurisdiction."
Now, considering this section in connexion with the Constitution, it is obvious, that the word exclusive, there used,
must be considered as applying solely to the Courts of the
United States; since it never could have been imagined, that
the states were to be restricted from suing in their own Courts, or
those of their sister states; and thus construed, it must carry the
implication, that the states may sue in any other Courts of the
United States, in cases comprised within the jurisdiction vested in those Courts, by the Judiciary Act; provided, the cause of
action, or the parties, be such as bring the suit within the
cases to which the judicial power of the United States is extended, by the Constitution.
In a suit against an alien, then, there can be no question,
that a state may sue in the Circuit Court; and must-prosecute
a suit there, if the alien chooses to assert the right of transfer
secured to him, under the 12th section of that Act.
And so, with regard to suits against consuls, and vice-consuls, it is perfectly clear, that the suit of a state must, if the
defendant insists upon his right, be prosecuted in the District
Courts of the United States.
The 9th section of the Act, being that which prescribes the
jurisdiction of the District Courts, is explicit on this point.
But that section embraces other cases, in which, without any
strained construction, the states may assert the rights, of a
suitor, in the District Court.
The words of the section are: "The District Courts shall
have exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admi
ralty and maritime jurisdiction, including all seizures under
Laws of Impost, Navigation, and Trade of the United States,
where seizures are made on waters, &c. ; -and shall also have exclusive original cognizance of all seizures on land, kc.; and of
all suits for penalties, and forfeitures, incurred under the
Laws of the United States."
Now, it is very clear, that wherever the District Court is vested with " exclusive original cognizance," the Supreme Court can

possess no 6riginal jurisdiction; and such is clearly the case.
R
VOL. LI

130

SUPREME COURT.

(The Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
with regard to seizures, and suits for forfeitures, under tile
Laws of the United States, and suits in the admiralty. And,
unless some reason- can be shown, why a state should not proEecute a suit for a forfeiture, under the Laws of the United
-'States; it follows, with regard to the information, that the jurisdiction was rightfully exercised by the District Court, in the
present instance. The admiralty suit shall be separately considered. But why may not a state prosecute a suit fir a forfeiture,
under a law of the United States? Take the cases of a law of
Congress passed to aid the states, in the collection of a tonnage duty; or of a penalty, under their inspection laws. In the
one case, there may be a seizure on the water, and in the other,
on the land: in either, there may be a suit for a forfeiture; and
in all, the penaltyi might, very rationally, be given to the state,
or its prosecuting officer. T1he present, so far as it involves the
question on the information, is precisely one of those cases.
Here was a fokfeiture, incurred under a law of ihe United
States; and the benefit of it, was consigned to the states, if
they chose to accept it. Here the state did acceptit, aud authorized their executive to assert the rights derived under the
Law of Congress.
An examination of the exceptions in the thirteenth section
of the Act, which marks out the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court, will'throw light upon this subject.
The language of the'section is: " That the Supreme Court
shall have exclusive jurisdiction of kll controversies of a civil
nature, where a state is a party, except between a state aul its
citizens; and except also, between a state and citizens of
other states, or aliens; in which latter case, it shall have original, but not exclusive jurisdiction."
Now, it may seem unaccountable, at first view" why these
exceptions should have been extended to controversies between
a state and its own citizens; since controversies between a
state and its owji citizens, is not one of the 'subjects of jurisdiction enumeratedin the Constitution. And the solution is to
be found in this, that the grant of jurisdiction, as to cases
arising ihnder-the Constitution, Laws, &c. of the United States,
and of admiralty and maritime causes, is not restricted to, or
limited by any relation, or description of persons. Controversie6, in these branches Qf jurisdiction, may, therefore, by possibility, arise between a state and its own citizens; certainly
between a state and the citizens of other states, or aliens, under
the laws of th6 Union, or in admiralty and maritime cases.
As the law regards this information as a civil suit, ini
rem,
on the exchequer side of the admiralty, and it was gr6unded
on a liw of Congress-the citizenship of the claimants, can
have no influence on the question of jurisdiction. I think.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

1S1

(The Governor of Georgia va. Juan 1%adrazo.)
ho-, reer, that it appears somewhere in this voluminous record, that Bowen was a citizen of Georgia; but whether of that
state, a sister state, or a foreign state, the controversy, if it be
regarded as one with individuals, is expressly excepted from
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court;. and, I must
think, is within the original jurisdiction of the District Court.
And if so, it follows, that the state must, upon appeal from
a decision there made in its favour, assume the attitude of. a
defendant in- any Court, into which the cause may be legally
carried, by appeal or writ of error.
In England, the king cannot be sued, yet he is daily brought
before the Appellate Courts, as a defendant in error. It has
long since been 'decided that this is legal. And thus, too, the
United States continually appears upon the docket of this
Court, as a party defendant; and, for the same reason, although
not suable originally, yet upon a judgment obtained, injunctions have been granted against parties who could not otherwise have been made defendants: as, for example, the United States.
The thing is unavoidable-it is incident to the right of appeal. Justice could not be administered without it. -There
would be no reciprocity-the law would operate unequally, and
to the prejudice of the citizen.
There is no compulsory process used to produce this reversed, I may say, nominal, state of parties. The cause is removed by a citation, or other less ofTensive process, and the
party appears in the. Superior Court, if he will-if not, the
cause is disposed of without an appearance.
So much for the information, and the appeal from the District Court upon it. We will now consider the rights of the
state, in the relation in which it stood to Madrazo's libel. I
am considering the state, and not the officers of.the state, as
the real party to the record.
When Madrazo's libel was filed, the governor's inforriiation
was pending; and as Madrazo's libel sets out the seizure and delivery of the slaves to the executive of Georgia, and the claims
advanced to the proprietary interest therein; it was properly
considered in the District Court, in connexion with the information, and in the double aspect of a claim and libel. In the
case of the Antelope, the cross libel of the Portuguese was
treated, reciprocally, as clainm and libel. Considered in the
relation of a claim to the information, it is impossible to deny,
that if the state rightly preferred the information, it must have
been bound by the decisions, both of the District Court, and of
the tribunal'to which an appeal lay from the decision of'the
District Court upon that information, as .rtgarded the rights
of. the claimants.

SUPREME COURT.
(The Governor of Georgia v8. Juan Madrazo.)
And if- we consider Madrazo's libel in the aspect of a suit
ih the admiralty, it appears to me impossible to assign a sufficient reason why the state should not be equally bound.
The property or possession of the state had been acquired
-under a capture at sea-a maritime tort. It was therefore
clearly a case of admiralty jurisdiction. Where then is the
limit to this branch of the jurisdiction of the District Court?
No personal relation, description, or character, imposes any
such limit. The grant of jurisdiction to the United Staies,
and by the United States to the District Court, is without restriction-and, it would be singular, if a state should be precluded from the right of appearing to assert its rights before that
tribunal. Suppose the case of a capture of a library shipped
to state, and a re-capture and libel for salvage; surely, in
some form or other, the state must have a hearing. There is
nothing compulsory upon the state-the right may be abandoned, if it will; but, after preferring a claim, will it be contended, that it may withdraw itself from the contest, under an
assertion of state immunities, to the lirejudice bf individual
right ? This is not a new question in the admiralty-it is
considered by Godolphin, who observes "that for the same
party in the same cause to surmise and move for a prohibition
against that jurisdiction, to which himself had formerly submitted, and in a cause which, by the libel, appears not other
- than maritime, seems quite beside the rule and practice of the
lan." (Jurisd. of the .Odm. p. 116, 117,) and the two adjudged
cases of Jennings and Audley, (Brow. Rep. p. 2. p. 80,) and Baxter and Hopes, (Ibid.) which he cites, do fully establish "that in
all cases Where the defendant admits the jurisdiction of the Admiralty Cour; by pleading, then prohibition shall not be granted,
if it do not appear that the act was done out of the jurisdiction."
Now, in this case, the state appeared, and claimed to the
monition, without protest. In the admiralty a claimant is an
actor-and had the decision of the District Court been affirmed, the state would have had the full benefit of this interposition, as a party. And again, at a subsequent period, the state
voluntarily surrendered the re3 to the Circuit Court, and took
it out again on stipulation, &c., and had not thisexception now
been taken, would have had all the benefit of a decree of restoration, if made by this Court. But it is insisted that consent cannot give jurisdiction-that this is a soind rule, and as
applied to theCommon Law Courts, cannot be controverted.
But is it so in the admiralty ?
It must be recollected, that the Common Law Courts have
themselves released this rule, in relation to the admiralty. I

allude to the controversy on the subject of the stipulation
bonds, which was finally abandoned, on the ground of the assent

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

183

(The Govemor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)

of the party, stipulating to submit to the jurisdiction of that
Court. These decisions seem fully in point, to the present
case. (2Br. C. 4"2. 97, 98.)
But in the proceedings, in rem, the admiralty wants no consent or concession to enlarge its jurisaiction. All the world
are parties to such a suit, and bound by 'it, by the common
consent of the world. The' interest of a state, or the United States, in the re8 aubjecta, must be affected by such a decision. The question will now be considered, whether the
want of an "actual reduction of the re8 into poslession in the
District Court, deprived that Court of jurisdiction; or whether
if it did, that circumstance would affect the appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Also, whether on the reduction of the
res into possession, there was any assumption of original jurisdiction in the Circuit Co)irt?
On these points I cannot bring myself to feel a,doubt, since the
very failure in the District Court to grant process for reducing
the res into possession, would be such a "damnumirreparabie"
as would sustain an appeal to the Circuit Court. O'therwise,
the very ground of appeal-that which gives jurisdiction,
would take it away. And what, upon an appeal, would bb the
course of the Circuit Court, upon such a ease? It has no
power to remand the cause; for the 24th section requires, that
" when a judgment or decree shall be reversed i. a Circuit
Court, such Court shall proceed to render such judgment, or
pass such decree, as the District Court should havd, rendered
or passed." This section, I must believe, necessarily, substitutes the Circuit for the District Court, upon a reversal; and
vests it with power to do whatever that Court could have done,
or ought to have done, originally, It is very important here
to notice, that not reducing the ree into possession in the District Court, was the necessary consequence of its first error,
in sustaining the information, and dismissing Madrazo's libel.
For if Madrazo's pretensions were to be considered 'as re-'
jected, there could be no reason for pursuing the means
of reducing the res into possession in the District Court-and
while the cause was in the Circuit Court, that necessity did
not arise, for the same reason, unil the decree was passed for
reversing the decree of the District Court, and dismissing the
information. Thus circumstanced, the power given, and duty
imposed, by the 24th section, could not have been exercised
otherwise than it was. The Circuit Court, alone, could proceed to do justice between the partie, and become quo ad hoc,
vested with original powers.
The question, as it regards the proceeds of the Africans
sold, is one of more nicety. For the proprietary interest in
the negroes unsold, could well be disposed of, after the Cour-

134

SUPREME COURT.
(The Governor of Georgia vs. Ju

Madrazo.)

became actually possessed of them. The Court was not at liberty to doubt, that the stipulation would have returned the
slaves, specifically, upon monition. But the proceeds of those
sold, we must suppose had been paid into the treasury; and
there is no doubt, that the Court could not, and would not,
have attempted, by compulsory process, to get at it. Yet, was
this a sufficient reason for notproceeding to adjudicate upon the
question of right? I think not.
It must be noticed here, that the head of the government had
omitted no firm or legal means, to give authenticity to the submission of the state to the jurisdiction of the Court. The letters
of procuration, executed by both governor Clarke, and his successor, governor Troup, in due form, are on the files; expressly authorizing, in the name of the state, all the acts of certain
proctors of that Court, in the name and behalf of the state.
The governor's answer, then, was the answer of the state;
and when the answer avows, that many of the slaves were.
sold, and the money paid into the treasury, what is it, but.
acknowledging that the property of Madmazo no longer remains in specific existence, but has been sold, and appropriated by the respondent under such circumstances as convert Madrazo's rights, into a pecuniary demand, a debt due by the
*state? Now, the state could stand in no other relation. to Madrazo, in this behalf, thdn Bowen or the captor would have.
stood, had the sale been made by .them; and can it be supposed, that a similar answer, from either Bowen or the captor,
would have deprived the Court below of its jurisdiction?
It is almost a work of supererogation, to resort to precedents
on such a question; but if necessary, there is no want of precedents, to prove, that the District Court was bound to go on,
and render justice to the libllant, according to the' forms of
the admiralty, as far as it could proceed.
The case of Monro vs. Almedia, decided in this Court in
180-5, was just such a case, (10 MWeht 473.) There it was fully considered, whether the Court might go on, and how to
proceed, and, the cause was remanded to the Circuit Court,
for further proceedings. The libel charged a seizure and appropriation of a sum of money, on the ocean; and the respondent appeared, under protest, and, by demurring, admitted- as
true, what the answer here avows to be true.
And strongly analogous is the case of M'Kenzie vs. Livingston Sc Welsh, reported in a note to the 3d Term Rep. 333, in
the case of Stuart vs. Wolf; in which M'Kenzie preferred a libel in the Vice-Admiralty Court, in Jamaica, to obtain condemnation of a sum of-money, captured by him, and not paid
into the registry of the Court. Livingston and Welsh filed a
claim, and that Court decreed to them "tme 81um of 1300 pounds,

JANUARY TERM, 182.

115

(rhe Governor of Georgia vs. Juan Madrazo.)
ia tie possession of the captor. M'Kenzie appealed to the Lords
Commissioners, who affirmed the decree below, and the cause
wvas remitted for further proceedings.
In 'that case, the res was avowedly out of possession of the
Court; and yet, upon the submission of the party who held it,
the Court entertained jurisdiction, and decreed upon the cause;
as if the claimant had been libellant, and the libellant stood in
his place.
When money is the thing in contest, or the thing captured
has been converted into money, it becomes essentially a debt;
and, of course, a metaphysical thing-not to be arrested specifically.
Upon this view of the subject, the District Court might
have exercised jurisdiction over the whole capture; and did
.entertain jurisaliction, in the very act of dismissing the libel,
upon the question of right. Then, when the whole cause was
brought, by appeal, before the Circuit Court, I hold that the
Circuit Court was bound to go as far as it could go, without intrenching upon the sovereign rights of the state; which, for the
purposes of justice, had thus consented to enter into the litigation between these parties-that is, as far as a decree.
Had not the progress of the Court been arrested by this appeal, it could certainly haxe gone no farther than to issue itt
monition.' But, it cannot be doubted, that, upon Madrazo's
petitioning the legislature on the subject, their officers woulh
have been instructed to d.spose of the property and money.
according to the decree of the Court. Subsequent events,
however, have given a new aspect to things; and Madrazo, with
abundant proofs of his rigats, is left without remedy.
Decree.--These causes came on, &c.,on consideration whereor.
This Court is of opinion, that there is error in so much of the
decree'of the said Circuit Court, as directs restitution of the.
ilaves libelled by Juan Madrazo, and the issue of the females.
in the custody of the goverument of the state of Georgia, or
the agent, or agents, of the said state, and that the proceeds
of those slaves, who were sold by order of the government ol
the said state, be paid to the said Juan Madrazo; the Circuit
Court not having jurisdiction of a cause, in which the plaintiff
asserts a claim upon the state; and that the same ought to be
reversed and annulled; and the libel of the said Juan Madrazo
is ordered to be dismissed. And this Court is further of opinion, that there is no error in the residue of the said decree,
and the same is hereby affirmed; and it is further considered
and ordered, that the said cause be remanded to the said Circtlit Court, with directions for further proceedings, to be had
thereon, according to law and justice, in conformitv to this
opilnoti.

