SUPREME COURT.

DANIEL CARROLL, OF DTYDINGTOX, "PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS.
JOSHUA PEAKE, DBFENDAN-r IN. ERROR.

When a party to an agreement, signed by the other contracting party, had
delivered to such party a copy of the agreemlent in his own bandwriting,
but. not sikned by him, and from the nature of the instrument, it was to
be-fairly presumed, the original was in-his custody;"notice to produce the
original paper, in order to gve the copy in evidence, is not necessary.
Such a copy, when oered to charge the party by whom the same was
made, and who, by the tenor of the agreement, was to perform certain
acts therein stated, may- be considered -not as a copy, but as an original,,
'in relation to the obligations of the party giving the copy, and be so given
in evidence. {22}
Where letteis, a p-art of the evidence in the Court below, have become
lost or mislaid, every thing is to be presumed to-have been contained in
them, to sup'port the opinion of .the Court, in relation to their contents ;
and "the. party who denies that th&letters authorized the decision of the
Court upon them, must show, by eidence, their contents. .22}
Surplusage in pleading,,does-not, in any case, vitiate, after verdict. {231
Ii a declaration upon an agreement, by way of lease, by which the lessor
stipulated to let a farm, from the 1st of January 1820, to remove the former tenant, and that the lessor should have the tenancy and occupation
of the farm from that day, fr6e from all hindrance ; the assignment of
breaches was, that, although spedially requested on the said Ist ofJanuary,
the defendant refused, and neglected to tinun out the former tenant, who
then was, or hpd been, in the possession and occupancy of the land, and
to deliver possession thereof to the plaintiff; this assignment is sufficl.ent. {f2
It is sufficient, that the averment should state tne plaintiff's readiness
and offer, and his request, on the first day of January generally, and
not at the last convenient hour of that day ;.and if an averment of a personaldemhand is made, it need not have been on'the land. 124}.
The strict-doctrines relative to averments in pleading, have been applied to
special pleas in bar, of tender, and some others of a peculiar chalrcter,
and, depending upon their own liarticular reasons. 1241
Declarations containing general averments of readiness and request, law'
been held sufficient, especially after verdict, unless in very peculiar
cae,. 1241
IN the Circuit Court of the United-States, for the district of
Columbia, the defendant in error, -institrted a suit against the
plaintiff in error, to recover damages arising out of alleged
breaches of .an agreement, in the nature of a lease, dated 18th
of December 0.819. The declaration stated the agreement; and
the damages claimed, were as an indemnity for expenses incurred by the plaintiff, under the agreement, for losses of profits and for not turning out the tenant who was in possession
of the property, when the agreement was made. To suiport
the issue on, his part, the plaintiff offered to read in evidence
to the jury, the following, copy of a paper, (the original of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

'19

(Carroll vs. Peake.)
which, was signed by Jbshua Peake,) and which was admitted
to be wholly in the handwriting of the plaintiff in error.
"I agree to rent of Daniel Carroll, of Dudington, the land
rented heretofore to Wilfred Neale, the same .being in St. Marv's county, for which I oblige myself. to pay, on the 1st day
o'f January 1821,' for one year, from the 1st of January 1820,
six hundred dollars, (9600,) and to pay all. taxes onhbe-same,
independent of the above rent; and also, I oblige myself to
keep the premises in good repair, and not to commit, por suffer to be committed, any waste on the said premises.
Witness my-hand, this 18th day of December, 1819.
It is agreed, that 'the taxes shall be paid by Joshua Peake,
and the said Carroll will allow the same on the tax bill, receipted, out of the rent.
JosHUA PEAK..
(Signed,)
Witness,
DUDL.Y DIGGES."

WILLIAM[

To the admission of this paper, by the Court, the counsel
for the plaintiff objected, .but the Court allowed it to be read
by the jury, upon which, they rendered a bill of exceptions;
and by writ of error, the cause was brought before this Court;
and was argued by Mr, Key and Mr. Cox,. for the plaintiff

in error, and by Mr. Jones, for the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error, it was said, that the declaration
sets forth the agreement of lease, that the possession of the
property was to be given, the'expenses to which the lessee was
exposed; and that the plaintiff in .error did not perform any
of the acts necessary, to turn out the tenant, who was in
possession of the land when the lease was to commence.
The declaration should have averred a readiness on the
part of the lessee to comply with his contract, as to time and
place. Savary vs. Goe, 3 Washington's Decisions, 140.
The proper day to deliver possession, was the day on which
the lease was to commence; and the declaration shduld have
averred, that the lessee was at the place in person, or by'attorney, at that time, to receive it. Instead of this, the breach
is laid if any where, in the county of Washington, and the
property described in the lease, is in the county of St. Mary's;
nor is it- averred, that, by the lease, the plaintiff in error was
bound to turni out the person in possession, although damages are claimed for not doing this.
2 The party who gives a lease, is not b6und to turi the
prior tenant out of possession.. The lessor has, by the lease,
parted with the control of the property; and the lessee should
proceed, under the law of Maryland, to obtain the possession;
but, if it was the duty of the lessor to obtain the possession

20

SUPREME COURI.

(Carroll vs. Peake.)
for the lessde, the. lessee should have required this of hltn, and
his non-compliance with the demand should have been averred
3. The paper admitted in evidence, was a copy; and the copy of a deed is not evidence, unless the original is destroyed,
or lost. It is not said the paper was a true copy; and the original, if in possession of Peake, might have been produced;
or, if in the possession of the plaintiff in error, might havr
been called for.
Mr. Jones, for the defendant in error, contended, that, by
the operation- of the statute of Jeo fales, the verdict of the
jury had cured all th6 defects of the declaration, if any existed;
and that the declaration contained every necessary statement
and .averment for the plaintiff's case. When the condition in
an agreement is precedeht, special performance must be set
out and averred; -and, when a tender is pleaded, it is necessary
to set forth minutely, every thing of time and place. In this
case, it was not. required to declare specially.
2. The Act of Assembly of Maryland, gives to the landlQrd,
only, .and not to the lessee, a right t ) proceed, for possession, against persons "holding over."
3. The "copy" of the paper,'which copy was wholly in the
handwriting of the plaintiff in error, and who must have kept the
original paper, was primary,'and not secondary evidence, quoad,
the matters in controversy. It was evidence against the lessor,
and was in the nature of a counterpart of the agreement;
and necessary to charge the lessor, who had not signed the
lease, and who, it must be presumed, retained the possession
of it.
Mr. Justice TRIMBL delivered the opinion of the Court.This is' a writ of"error, to a judgment of the Circuit Court,
for the district of Columbia, held in the county'of Washington.
Joshua Peake brought this action on the case, in that Court,
upon - special agreernient against Daniel Carroll, who pleaded,
the general issue; and, upon the trial, a verdict and judg-,
ment were 'rendered for, the glaintiff therein. A bill of exceptions was taken by'the defendant, in the Court below; which
state , that the plaintiff, to-support the istue on his part, offered to read in evidence to the jury, the following copy of a paper, (the execution of the original of which, was admitted,)
signed by 'oshua Peake, which- copy is admitted to be, wholly,
in the handwriting of the defendant, to wit'.-" I agree to
rent of Daniel Carroll, of Dudington, the land -rented heretofore to Wilfred Neale, the same being in St. Mary's county;
for.vhich I oblige myself to pay, on the 1st d~y of January
18 1, for one year; from the 1st ,day of January 1820, six

JANUARY TERM, 188.

S1

(Carollvs. Peake.)
and to pay all taxes on the same, in(%600,)
hundred dollars,
dependent of the above rent; and also, oblig6 myself to keep.
the premises in good repair, and not to commit, nor suffer to
be committed, any waste on the said pre-mises.-Witness my hand, this 11th day of December 1819.
It is agreed, that the taxes shall be paid by Joshua- Peake,
and the said Carroll will allow the same, on the tax bill, receipted, out of the rent.
J6SHUA PEAK.
Witness,
WILLIAM DUDLEY DIGGES."

Wlich paper was so offered in evidence, in connexion with
three letters from defendant, to the .plaintiff, as a component
part of the sum of evidence relied on, tol prove the tontract
as laid in'the declaration; which letters are in these words
and figures, following, &c.,[The letters were mislaid.]
To the reading of which paper, the defendaiut, by'his counsel, objected, as not being cumpetent and legal evidence, to
charge the defendant in this case; but the Court permitted
the said paper to be read in evidence td the jury, &c., to which
opinion of the Court, the difendant, by his counsel, excepted,
&c. The plaintiff, -then, further to support the issue on his
part, offered in evidence to the jury, the said letters, front defendant to plaintiff, and, admitted to be in the handwriting-of
the defendant; as component parts, in connexion with the said
paper before-admitted, of the evidence of the agreement -on
which this action is founded; to the admission of said letters,
as part of said agreement, 'the defendant,- by his counsel, ohjected; but the Court overruled said objection, and permitted
said letters to be read to the jury, as part6f said agieemcnt; to
which opinion of the Court, the. defendant, by his counsel,
'excepted.
It is insisted by the counsel for the plointiff in' error, that
these -opinionsare erroneous; and that the judgment of the Circuit Court should, for that cause, be reversed.
The bill of exceptions does not put the objection to the
paper offered in evidence, distinctly, upon the ground, that,
being a copy, it could not be used, without timely notice to
produce the original. Althotgh some.doubt exists,- whether
the objection ought not to have been placed on that ground,.in
the Court below, in order to make it available here;. yet, as
the whole argument in this Court, has proceeded upon th6 assumption, that the questi6ii is'sufficiently raised upon the, bill
of exceptions, we -will 'so - consider it. The principle relied.
upon is, that a copy cannot be given in evidence, if the original be in the possession of the adverse- party; unlss timely

SUPREME COURT.
(Carroll vs. Peake.)
previous notice has been given him, to produce it at the trial.
This is certainly true, as a general rule. But in examining the
numerous adjudged cases to be found in the books, in .which
this general rule has been asserted and applied, we have been
able to find no case like this. They are all cases where the
cdpy offered, had not been made by the party, agaipst whom
" it was attempted to be used. This is a case in, which the execution of the original is distinctly admitted; and the paper
called a copy, is admitted to be wholly in the defendant's handwriting. From the nature of the transaction, he- was entitled
to, and must be presumed to have, the custody of the original.
The copy, made out by himself, must be presumed to have
come to the plaintiff's possession, by the defendant's own act;
and, by making and delivering it to the plaintiff, the defendant
consents that it shall be considered genuine and true. We
think, that, under such circumstances, this case forms a just
exception to the general rule; and that it is not competent, for
the defendant below, to allege against his own acts and admissions, that this papdr does not, nor may not, contain all
the verity and certainty of the original. So far we have con
sidered this paper as if it ought to be regarded in the light of
a copy. But, we think, that is not its true character, as it was
presented to the Court and jury. 'We think, that, under the
circumstances, and to the purposes for which it was offered,
it may fairly be regarded as. an original.
As relates to Peake's contract, to pay rent, &c., it was a
copy; but was it a copy, as respects Carroll's agreement to let
the farm? If so, it wag a copy, without an original-for the
original 'paper. was not- signed by Carroll, and contained no
contract, on his part. The-paper was offered in evidence, in
connexion with the three letters from the defendant to the
laintiff, as a component part of the evidence, to prove the deendant's agreement to let the farm 'to the plaintiff, and the
terms of that agreement. The clerk, certifies, that the letters
referred to, are not on file in the cause, and they are not trans
cribed into the record. Iif their absence, if there be a supposable case, in which they, and the paper called a copy,
were legitimate evidence5 regarding that paper, as an original,
and not as a mere copy, it must be so regarded. We are bound
to presume every thing in favour of the correctness of the decision of the Court below, until the contrary appears.
If the letters, which are admitted to be in the defendant's
handwriting, were relevant to the matter in controversy, and,
in their absence, that must be presumed; no doubt can exist,
of their being competent and legitimate evidence, to prove the
contract-sued on, so far as they spoke on that subject. It has
been already remarked, that the paper called a copy, was ad-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

23

(Carroll vs. Peake.)
mitted to be in the defendant's handwriting, and that it must
have come to the plaintiff's hands, by the defendant's act.
Let it be supposed, then, that having copied, in his own hand,
Peake's agreement to pay rent, &c. he had enclosed that paper,
in one of those letters, and referring to it. The letter hcre stated,
that he, (Carroll,) agreed to let and lease the farm to Peake,
upon terms expressed in-the enclosed paper. It is plain, that,
in the case supposed, the enclosed paper, although it might be
a mere copy, as respected Peake's part of the contract, yet,
as respected the contract on Carroll's part,'would be truly an or'iginal document, by adoption and incorporation with the letter,
as much as the letter itself. It would be a part of the letter.
We do not say, the paper was thus enclosed, and referred to, in
the letters, or either of ther4 but it might have been,'for ought
that appears, and that is enough.
Upon the principle assumed as correct, that the opinion
of the Court below must be regarded as sound, until its
incorrectness is made to appear, the plaintiff in error cannot prevail; unless he can show, in the absence of the letters,,
that no case could have existed, they being present, in which
the paper objected to,' could be considered in the light of an
original document. The case first shows, that such a case
might have existed, and have been proved, upon the triaL It
is, by no means, a strange supposition, to presume that such
was the aspect, of the case; for it is perfectly consistent with
a known and familiar manner of transacting business, where
the parties reside at a distance, or where, for other causes,
the mode of contracting, by correspondence, is resorted to. It
is objected, that the declaration shows no cause of action; and
it is insisted the judgment shall be reversed, for that cause.
The declaration is very loosely drawn, and a great deal of
matter is crowded into it, which is impertinent, or, at most,
only in aggravation of dalmages. But surplusage, in pleadings,
does not vitiate, in any case, after verdict; and wholly disregarding the impertinent and irrelevant matter, the declaration contains enough to support the action. The declaration, in substance, alleges, that the defendant below agreed to reit,' and to
farm-let to the plaintiff, the farm, for one year from the 1st of
January 1820, and agreed to remove the former- tenant, aid"
that the plaintiff should have the possession and occupancy of
the farm, from the-1st of Januart aforesaid, free from the let,
hindrance, or disturbance of any one. The declaration- then
proceeds to aver. that on the said 1st of January 1820, at the
county aforesaid, the plaintiff was ready and willing, and offered to the said Daniel (the defefidant) to take possession, of
the said land and farm, and' to rent and occupy the same, c.,
and afterwards assign breaches. (inter alia) in this, that a-

24

SUPREME COURT.
(Carroll vs. Peake.)

though specially requested so to do, on the said 1st day of
January 1820, the defendant refused and neglected to turn out
the tenant, who then was, and had been, in the possession and
occupancy of the said land and farm, and to deliver the possession thereof to the said Joshua.
• The specific objections, urged in argument, are, that tnh'
plaintiff sh6uld have averred his readiness, and offered his request; not on the 1st day of January, generally, but at the
-last convenient hour of that day; and that instead of charging
a personal demand, it ought to have been averred tohave been
made on the land. It must occur to every one, that an offer
and request upon the land, in the absence of the defendant,
would be A very idle and useless ceremony, and that an offer
and request to him, personally, was much better calculated to
efiable him to perform his-duty, and fulfil his agreement.
We cannot admit that it was necessary the offer and request
should be made, at the last convenient hour of the day., The
strict doctrines contended for, have been applied to special
pleas'in bar, of tender, and some others of a peculiar character, and depending upon their own particular reasons: but
there is-no analogy between them and this case.
In declarations, general averments, .of readiness and request
on the day, have always been held sufficient, especially after
verdict.
We are of opinion, there is no error in the judgment and
proceedings of the Circuit Court, and the same is affirmed.
-with damages and costs.

