OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

199; Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 248; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411; Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining Company, 175 U. S. 571; Shoshone Mining Company v. Rutter, 177
U. S. 505.
Tested by this rule, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended entirely on diversity of citizenship and not in any
degree on grounds making the case one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

BRUNSWICK

dissented.

TERMINAL COMPANY v.
BANK OF BALTIMORE.

NATIONAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
1o. 88. Argued December 9, 10, 1903.-Decided February 23, 1904.

The additional liability of the shareholders of corporations depends on the
terms of the statute creating it, and as such a statute is in derogation of
the common law it cannot be extended beyond the words used.
Where the charter of a state bank provides for additional liability of the
shareholders as sureties to the creditors of the bank for all contracts and
debts to the extent of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, at the
time the debt was created, a shareholder is not liable for a debt created
after he has actually parted with his stock and the transfer has been
regularly entered on the books of the bank.
Where the decisions of the highest court of a State show that it regarded
the construction and application of a statute as open for review if another case arose, its prior determinations of the questions do not necessarily have to be adopted and applied by the Federal courts in cases where
the cause of action arose prior to any of the adjudications by the
state court.

Section 1496 of the Georgia Code of 1882, requiring shareholders of
banks to publish notice of transfer in order to exempt themselves from

BRUNSWICK T. CO. v. NAT. BK. OF BALTIMIORE. 387
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

liability, does'not apply to shareholders who have transferred their stock
prior to the inception of the debts at the time of the failure of the institution.

Tis was a bill filed January 14, 1898, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Maryland by the Brunswick Terminal Company and others, creditors of the Brunswick
State Bank, chartered by the State of Georgia, which failed
and was declared insolvent in May, 1893, to enforce, in behalf
of its creditors, against the National Bank of Baltimore, a
statutory liability equal to the par value of certain shares of
stock in the State Bank at one time standing in the name of
the Baltimore Bank.
The case was first heard on demurrer to a plea of the Maryland statute of limitations. The demurrer was overruled, the
defence sustained, and the bill dismissed. 88 Fed. Rep. 607.
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, the decree was reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings. 99 Fed. Rep. 635.
The cause was then heard on the pleadings, and an agreed
statement of facts, the parties reserving the right to refer to
any pertinent laws or statutes of Georgia, as follows:
"That the Brunswick State Bank was a corporation chartered, organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Georgia, and was engaged in the general banking business in
that State; that on or about the 30th day of May, 1893, William M. Wiggins and others, alleging themselves to be creditors
of said Brunswick State Bank, filed their petition in the Superior Court of Glynn County, Georgia, against said bank, alleging that it was insolvent, and praying for the appointment of
a receiver to take possession of its assets, and administer them,
and on the 29th day of June following the court decreed that
the bank was insolvent and appointed a permanent receiver
for the purposes stated; that the State of Georgia and Glynn
County were, under the laws of Georgia, preferred creditors,
and the assets obtained by the receiver as the assets .of the
bank were exhausted by the payment of these preferred claims

OCTOBER TERMN,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

and the costs of litigation, and nothing was left for the payment of other creditors of the bank; that the following persons
are creditors of the said Brunswick State Bank in the amounts
stated in connection with their names, and were originally
parties plaintiff in said cause, or having become such subsequently, that is to say: [Here follow lists of creditors.]
"That the defendant is a national bank, chartered, organized
and conducting a business of a bank at the city of Baltimore,
in the State of Maryland, under the provisions of the statutes
of the United States in relation to national banks and their
operation.
"That in the month of August, 1890, the defendant discounted for one Lloyd a promissory note drawn by him and
F. E. Cunningham for the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), endorsed by the copartnership firm of Lloyd &
Adams, and by W. A. Cunningham, and received, together
with the note, as the collateral security for its payment, one
hundred and ten (110) shares of the capital stock of said
Brunswick State Bank of the par value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per share; that, in order to protect itself as
pledgee, the defendant caused this stock to be transferred
into its own name on the books of the Brunswick State Bank,
on or about the 25th day of August, 1890; that the said note
was paid to the defendant at the time of its maturity, and the
defendant being under obligation to return the stock, the
pledge being at an end and the pledgor entitled to its return,
retransferred the stock on the books of said Brunswick State
Bank by direction of the pledgor, and the said transfer was
fully completed on the books of the said bank on or before the
20th day of October, 1890, but no notice by publication of the
fact of said retransfer was given by the defendant; that the
defendant never had or claimed any interest in said stock,
save under the pledge aforesaid, but never notified the Brunswick State Bank, its stockholders or creditors, that it held said
stock otherwise than as the absolute owner thereof.
"That the indebtedness of said Brunswick State Bank to

BRUNSWICK T. CO. v. NAT. BK. OF BALTIMORE. 389
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

all of the plaintiffs in this cause accrued after the said 20th day
of October, 1890, from transactions with said bank commenced
after that date, and the plaintiffs had no knowledge in fact
that the name of the defendant had appeared upon the books
of said Brunswick State Bank as a stockholder.
"It is agreed that the court may draw inferences from any
of the foregoing facts to the same extent as if the facts had
been proven by means of witnesses."
The Circuit Court rendered a decree dismissing the bill.
112 Fed. Rep. 812.
An appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals was taken and
that court certified to this court certain questions concerning
which it desired instructions for the proper decision of the
case. After full argument on the merits this court required
the whole record and cause to be sent up for consideration.
Mr. Henry W. Williams and Mr. C. P. Goodyear, with
whom Mr. W. E. Kay, Mr. H. Winslow Williams and Mr.
William S. Thomas were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. William L. Marbury, and Mr. Frank Gosnell, with
whom Mr. Allan McLane was on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Baltimore Bank was a national bank, and was not
authorized to permanently invest any portion of its capital
in the stock of other corporations, nor did it attempt to do so
in this instance. The shares of stock of the Brunswick Bank
were merely accepted as collateral to a note discounted by the
Baltimore Bank. They stood, it is true, for a few weeks in
the name of the Baltimore Bank on the registry of the Brunswick Bank, but they were then retransferred to the pledgor
as appeared on the registry, the note having been paid. Complainants became creditors long after the transaction, and were
chargeable with notice so far as the Baltimore Bank was con-

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

cerned. But notwithstanding the latter bank only held the
shares as collateral and had returned the pledge in due course
on the payment of the loan, the contention is that the bank is
under a statutory liability to these subsequent creditors, to
the full amount of the shares it had temporarily held as security.
This additional liability of a stockholder depends on the
terms of the statdte creating it, and as it is in derogation of the
common law the statute cannot be extended beyond the words
used.
As to stockholders of the Brunswick Bank, such a liability
was imposed by the ninth section of the charter, granted in
1889, which provided "that said corporation shall be responsible to its creditors to the extent of its property and assets, and
the stockholders, in addition thereto, shall be individually
liable equally and ratably, and not one for another, as sureties
to the creditors of such corporation, for all contracts and debts
of said corporation, to the extent of the amount of their stock
therein, at the par value thereof, respectively, at the time the
debt was created in addition to the amount invested in such
shares."
Tested by the language of this section, the Baltimore Bank
was never under liability to these creditors. For if this national bank could have been regarded as the owner of these
shares from August 25 to October 20, 1890, notwithstanding
the actual facts and the limitations on its powers, it was not
such stockholder, in fact or in appearance, at the time complainants' debts were created. It acquired the stock as pledgee,
August 25, 1890, and the note to which it was collateral having
been paid, retransferred it October 20, 1890, the retransfer being
regularly entered on the books of the bank. It was after this
that the transactions commenced from which the indebtedness
to complainants arose, and no element of estoppel was involved.
Nevertheless complainants contend that the Baltimore Bank
remained liable as a stockholder because it did not give notice
of the retransfer under section 1496 of the Georgia Code of
1882, reading as follows:

BRUNSWICK T. CO. v. NAT. BK. OF BALTIMORE. 391
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"When a stockholder in any bank or other corporation is
individually liable under the charter, and shall transfer his
stock, lie shall be exempt from such liability, unless he receives
a written notice from a creditor within six months after such
transfer, of his intention to hold him liable; provided, he shall
give notice once a month, for six months, of such transfer,
immediately thereafter, in two newspapers in or nearest the
place where such institution shall keep its principal office."
This section was obviously not intended to impose a liability
but to exempt from an existing liability. If any debt had been
created from August 25 to October 20, and perhaps as to any
debt outstanding on August 25, the Baltimore Bank, treating
it as a stockholder from August 25 to October 20, might have
been held liable because it did not give the statutory notice,
but no such case is presented. On the face of this record it is
immaterial whether there were any creditors during the six
months after the retransfer to give or to receive notice or
whether there was any indebtedness incurred prior to August 25, or during the period from August 25 to October 20,
1890.
We concur in the views of the Circuit Court, as thus expressed by Morris, J.:
"As by the charteroof the Brunswick State Bank a stockholder was only liable as surety to creditors to the extent of
his stock in the bank at the time the debt was created, and as
the defendant at the time the debts of the plaintiffs were
created had no stock in the bank, and was therefore under no
liability, it does not appear that section 1496 of the Georgia
code could have any application to this defendant. This section is applicable to a stockholder who, being individually
liable to a creditor or creditors, shall then transfer his stock.
The stockholders in the Brunswick State Bank were only
liable for debts created while they held their stock, and, as
applied to them, this section means that a stockholder who
has become individually liable to a creditor by holding stock
at the time the creditor's debts were created shall be-exempt

OCTOBER TERI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

from such liability, provided he publishes a notice that he has
transferred his stock, unless within six months after the transfer the creditor gives him notice that he intends to h6ld him
liable. This would seem to be the plain meaning and intention of the statute.
"As section 1496 enables a stockholder, who, by the charter,
is already under liability to a creditor, to escape that liability
by transferring his stock, unless the creditor gives him notice
within six months after the transfer, it is sensible and understandable why notice of the transfer should be given; but, as
to persons who as yet had no dealings with the bank out of
which debts could be created, to require notice to them would
not be sensible, and would be a mere arbitrary penalty, without reason,-a thing which is not to be imputed to the legislature if the section is capable of a more reasonable interpretation. If no notice of transfer by advertisement is given
by the stockholder, then no notice within six months need
be given by the creditor, and both stand upon the right
given by the charter, unaffected by section 1496 of the
code."
But it is said that the highest judicial tribunal of Georgia
has decided otherwise, and that the Circuit Court and this
court are bound to accept its interpretation of these statutory
provisions. Without discussing the exceptions to that rule
the inquiry in the first instance is as to what has been actually
decided by the Supreme Court of Georgia in respect of the
construction and application of those provisions in circumstances such as exist in this case. We are referred to the
cases of Brobston v. Downing, Brobston v. Chatham Bank, 95
Georgia, 505, decided May Term, 1894; and Chatham Bank v.
Brobston, 99 Georgia, 801, decided December Term, 1895, which
involved the charter of the Brunswick State Bank.
The court delivered no opinion in Brobston v. Downing, and
Chatham Bank, but the first headnote by Bleckley, C. J., was
in these words: "With or without a clause in the charter restricting the personal statutory liability of stockholders to the

BRUNSWICK T. CO. v. NAT. BK. OF BAUrIMORE. 393
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amount of stock at its par value at the time the debt in question was created, the liability exists and continues for any
debt incurred by the corporation at any time until the stockholder who claims to be exempt by reason of having sold and
transferred his stock before the debt was created has given
notice of such sale conformably to section 1496 of the code.
Lumpkin, J., concurring dubitante."
This does not in terms refer to stock which has been held as
collateral and retransferred on payment of the loan.
In the second case there was no opinion of the court, but
the following headnotes appear:
"1. The decisions of this court in the cases of Brobston v.
Downing, and vice versa, and Brobston v. Chatham Bank, 95
Ga. 505, upon a review thereof, are affirmed.
"2. Where the charter-of a bank imposes on all of its stockholders personal liability to its creditors, such liability attaches as well to those who acquire a complete legal title to
stock of the bank by having the same transferred to them as
collateral security for debts due by the transferers, as to those
who purchase such stock outright.
"3. Under the charter of the Brunswick State Bank, and
the general rules of law al5plicable thereto, a stockholder is
individually liable for his pro rata part of the corporation
debts created before he acquired his shares of stock by transfer, as well as for a like part of those created during his ownership of the shares.
"4. A stockholder in that bank is also liable to the same
extent upon debts of the corporation created after he transferred his shares, unless he gave notice of the transfer, as
prescribed in section 1496 of the code."
These were followed by four other headnotes, which need
not be set forth.
Of the three members of the court, Mr. Justice Lumpkin and
Gober, J., filed an explanatory opinion, in which, after giving
the ninth section of the Brunswick Bank charter, and section 1496 of the Code of 1882, they stated:

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

"In the case of Brobston & Co. et al. v. Downing, and Same
v. The Chathamn Bank, 95 Georgia, 505, this court in effect decided that a stockholder in this bank was individually liable
for his pro rata part of the debts of the corporation created
before he became a stockholder, as well as for a like proportion
of the indebtedness incurred by it while he held his stock.
This decision controls the present cases. Upon a review of it,
duly allowed, Chief Justice Simmons and Justice Lumpkin are
of the opinion that it should be affirmed; and Judge Gober,
being thus bound by it, of necessity concurs in the judgments
now rendered. He is nevertheless of the opinion that in dealing with the cases reported in 95 Georgia, supra, the court, in
so far as it held that a stockholder of this bank could be made
liable for any debt created by it before he actually became a
stockholder, misconstrued that portion of the bank's charter
which is quoted above. If free to do so, he would hold that,
under the language just referred to, the individual liability of
a stockholder of this corporation is limited to such debts only
as were contracted during the time he was an owner of stock
and up to the date when, relatively to such liability, he legally
severed his connection with the corporation. We all agree
that any such owner, although he may have transferred his
stock, would still be bound, under the above cited section
of the code, for whatever liability the charter fixed upon
him, unless he gave the notice provided for by that section.
"In 1894, an act was passed by the general assembly which
materially modifies the law bearing upon this subject, in that
it dispenses with any necessity for a stockholder, upon transferring his stock, to publish notice of the fact in order to be
discharged from liability. That act declares that 'whenever
a stockholder in any bank or other corporation is individually
liable under the charter, and shall transfer his stock, he shall
be exempt from such liability by such transfer, unless such
bank or other corporation shall fail within six months from
the date of such transfer.' Act of 1894, p. 76; Civil Code,

BRUNSWICK T. CO. v. NAT. BK. OF BALTIMORE. 395
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ยง 1888.' In view of the radical change thus made in the law,
the difference of opinion which exists between the majority
and the minority of the court as constituted for the hearing of
the cases now in hand is, apparently, of but little practical
importance, save as affecting the result of the present litigation. If another case should arise the decision of which would
depend upon the question as to which we disagree, the whole
matter would still be open to review by a bench of six justices.
Accordingly, we have agreed among ourselves to let the present
decision stand upon the headnotes as announced, with the
foregoing explanation of our reasons for not entering upon a
discussion as to what should be the proper construction of the
bank charter now under consideration."
As the reference was to the increase of the number of justices
from three to six, which followed soon after, we think this
explanation indicated that it was contemplated that "the
whole matter would be open for review," before the new bench,
if another case arose. The power to reexamine would exist,
and these remarks were evidently intended to suggest that in
the circumstances it might be properly exercised. And this,
although the point of disagreement was confined to the question
whether liability attached in respect of indebtedness created
ISections I, II and VI of the act of 1894 are as follows:
SEC.'I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia,
etc., That from and after the passage of this Act, whenever a stockholder in
any bank or other corporation is individually liable under the charter, and
shall transfer his stock, he shall be exempt from such liability by such transfer, unless such bank or other corporation shall fail within six months from
the date of such transfer.
SEC. II. Be it further enacted, That the stockholders in whose name the
capital stock stands upon the books of such bank or other corporation at the
date of its failure shall be primarily liable to respond upon such individual
liability; but upon proof made that any of said shareholders at the date of
the failure are insolvent, recourse may be had against the person or persons
from whom such insolvent shareholder received his stock, if within a period
of six months prior to the date of the failure of such bank or other corporation.
SEC. VI. Be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of laws in conflict
with this law be, and the same are, hereby repealed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

before the particular stockholders sought to be charged became such.
We conclude, therefore, that the questions before us have
not been so definitely determined by the state court as to entitle such determination to be adopted and applied in this case.
And this conclusion is confirmed by other considerations.
The foregoing decisions were rendered in 1894 and 1895, and
the Baltimore Bank was not a party to the litigation and was
never within the jurisdiction of the Georgia courts. The
transaction with this bank occurred in 1890, and fully terminated October 20 of that year.
When it took the collateral shares in its own name, it seems
to us that it had the right to assume that it ran no risk of
incurring liability by virtue of the terms of the charter of the
Brunswick Bank for indebtedness created after, in the ordinary course of business, it ceased to hold the stock, and that
it could not reasonably have supposed that section 1496 of the
code of Georgia was intended arbitrarily to make all, who
might have held the stock of the Brunswick Bank from time
to time, liable for every transaction during twenty years (the
period of limitations), after they had ceased to be stockholders.
There had been no such ruling in respect of the statutory
liability imposed by the charter of the Brunswick Bank on its
stockholders, when the loan was made and paid, and the cases
cited from the Georgia reports prior to 1894, all of which we
have carefully examined, dealt with different provisions and
involved different considerations.
The charter of the Brunswick Bank was granted in 1889, at
which time section 1496 had been in force for many years, and
its application could only extend to the liability imposed by
the charter, namely, liability for indebtedness created while
the relation of stockholder existed. The words "at the time
the debt was created," must be held to have been providently
inserted as words of limitation, and cannot be rejected, nor
rendered inefficacious by the prior law, which only applied to
the actual situation, and did not control it nor purport to do so.

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 397
Syllabus.

192 U. S.

The question is not whether all stockholders remained such
if notice were not published, but whether the liability as stockholders, as to subsequent transactions, continued in spite of
the termination of that relation, and that question is answered
by the explicit terms of the ninth section of the charter.
Decree affirmed.

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. McCLAIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 103. Argued December 3,1903.-Decided February 23,1904.

1. Subdivision 4, section 629, Rev. Stat., was not superseded by the Judiciary
Act of 1887, 8, and under it a Circuit Court may take cognizance of a
suit arising under an act providing for internal revenue without regard to
the citizenship of the parties.
2. Where the constitutionality of an act of Congress is not drawn in question,
a case involving simply the construction of the act is not embraced by the
fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
3. A suit against a collector to recover sums paid under protest as taxes imposed by the War Revenue Act of 1898, 30 Stat. 448, is, within the meaning of the Judiciary Act of 1891, to be deemed one arising under both the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, if relief be sought upon
the ground that the taxing law is unconstitutional, and if constitutional
that its provisions, properly construed, do not authorize the collection of
the tax in question.
4. A case "arising

.

.

. under the revenue laws" section 6, Judiciary Act

of 1891, and involving the construction of a law providing for internal
revenue, but which, from the outset, from the plaintiff's showing involves
the application or construction of the Constitution, or in which is drawn
in question the constitutionality of an act of Congress, may be carried
by the plaintiff, as of right, the requisite amount being involved, from the
Circuit Court of Appeals to this court for final determination.
5. The tax imposed by section 27 of the War Revenue Act of 1898, upon the
gross annual receipts, in excess of $250,000 of any corporation or company
carrying on or doing the business of refining sugar, is an excise, and not
a direct tax to be apportioned among the States according to numbers.
In estimating t6e gross annual receipts of the company for purposes of
that tax, receipts derived from the use of wharves used by it in connection

