POSTAL TELEGRAPH-OABLE CO. v. NEW HOPE.
192 U. S.

55

Syllabus.

uary," or "composition statues." It seems to us they answer
the description of casts of sculpture and are properly described
as such in the act.
This provision of the statute should be liberally construed
in favor of the importer, and if there were any fair doubt as to
the true construction of the provision in question the courts
should resolve the doubt in his favor. American Net & Twine
Company v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; United States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369; Rice v. United States, 53 Fed. Rep. 910.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second

Circuit and of the Circuit Court in the Southern District of
New York are reversed, with directions to the Circuit Court to
reverse the decision of the board of general appraisers and of
the collector, and to direct the collector to admit the figures
to free entry.
So ordered.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO v. NEW HOPE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 92. Argued December 11, 1903.-Decided January 4, 19&4

In an action against a telegraph company doing an interstate business for
license fees taxed by a borough in Pennsylvania under an ordinance
fixing the amount of the tax per pole and per mile of wire, the court held
that while the question of reasonableness of the tax was one for the
court he would submit it to the jury for their aid and as advisory only,
directing them to find for the plaintiff if they regarded the amount as
reasoniable and for the defendant if they regarded it as unreasonable;
the jury found a verdict for plaintiff for an amount less than that fixed
by the ordinance and the court directed judgment to be entered thereon
for the amount so found.
Held that if the amount of the license fee fixed by the ordinance was not
reasonable the ordinance was void and neither the court nor the jury
could fix any other amount.
Held that a verdict for an amount less than that fixed by the ordinance,
and the order of the court to enter judgment thereon for the amount so
found, amounted to a finding by the jury and the court that the ordinance was not reasonable and the verdict and judgment should have
been for defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

Held that the general rule that the plaintiff alone can complain of a verdict
for less than he is entitled to under the evidence does not apply where
the only basis of his claim is an ordinance which is necessarily declared
to be void by the finding of a verdict for an amount less than that fixed
by the ordinance itself.

THE borough of New Hope in January, 1899, commenced
an action against the telegraph company, the plaintiff in error
herein, to recover from it the sum of $552, with interest, from
the respective times in which portions of the amounts became
due, the total charges being due from the defendant, as alleged,
on account of a license fee taxed by the borough, (by virtue of
an ordinance to that effect,) of one dollar for each pole and of
two and a half dollars for each mile of wire used in the borough
by the company, the license to be applied for and the fee to
be paid annually.
The company made what is termed in the record an affidavit
of defence, which, among other things, averred that it was a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York
and had accepted the act of Congress, approved July 24, 1866,
relating to the construction of telegraph lines over any post
road of the United States, 14 Stat. 221, and that its poles and
wires through the borough of New Hope were employed and
operated in the transmission of messages between the different
States, and were therefore instruments of commerce; that the
amount of the charges claimed to be due from the defendant
under the ordinance was unreasonable, unjust and excessive;
that the fee was sought to be justified as a license merely, but
that the amount thereof was wholly disproportionate to the
usual, ordinary and necessary expenses of inspecting and supervising the poles and wires imposed upon the borough of New
Hope, and was largely in excess thereof, and the fee was also
largely in excess of any additional liability of that kind and
character imposed upon the borough in looking after the safety
of the poles and wires and to see that they were properly maintained, and was also in excess of any further liability which
might or could arise to the borough by reason of any injuries

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABL8 CO. v. NEW HOPE. 57
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to persons or property which might arise, or may have arisen,
by reason of the erection of the poles and the stringing of the
wires within the limits of the borough. It was further stated
that the charges were more than ten times the amount of all
kinds and character of expenses and liability which might
have been incurred by the borough by reason of these poles
and wires, and that in view of those circumstances the assessing
of the license tax upon the telegraph company was for the
purpose of raising and producing revenue, and was therefore
void.
The company averred that it had paid the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania all taxes upon the value of its poles and wires,
as included in and represented by its capital and upon the gross
receipts derived from the use thereof, and it had paid its taxes
upon its property in the borough of New Hope. That the
expenses incurred by the borough during the period covered
by the claim practically amounted to nothing, so far as regarded inspection and supervision.
The parties proceeded to trial, and the borough having
proved the passage of the ordinance and the number of poles
and the number of miles of wire as claimed in the complaint,
thereupon rested.
The defendant proved that the only work done by the employ6s of the borough in -regard to the poles and wires of the
company during the four years included in the claim was to
count the poles each year for the purpose of assessing the tax;
that no other service on the part of the borough was performed
under its police powers, or at all, in regard to inspection. The
defendant also showed that it was an interstate telegraph
company; that it had no public office in the borough, nor had
there been any commercial office therein during the time in
question; that there was no office in which business was received for which tolls were charged.
It was proved also that the entire value of the line of the
company in the borough of New Hope (that is, the cost of the
material and construction) amounted to less than $800, and

OCTOBER TERM1,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

that the claim of the borough, graduated by the number of
poles in the borough and the number of miles of wire strung
on them, amounted to $138 per year, or to seventeen per
centum of the cost of the line in the borough.
The company also proved that it employed servants, whose
duty it was to erect the poles and string the wires and inspect
and watch them, and keep them in proper repair and in safe
condition; that the authorities of the borough did nothing
whatever in the way of inspection of the lines.
The trial judge charged the jury, among other things, that
the question which arose in the evidence in the case was that
of the validity of the ordinance, to be determined by the
amount and character of the charges against the company;
that the borough had the right to enact such police regulations as might be necessary and reasonable in the government
of the town, but in regard to the taxing question it had no
right to go beyond the exercise of what was termed its police
power; that if the ordinance was unreasonable in amount it
was void; that the power to demand the license fee must be
exercised as a means of regulation, and could not be used as a
source of revenue, and that when exacted as a police power
it must be limited to the necessary and proper expenses of
issuing the license and of inspecting and regulating the business the license covers; that the borough had the right to
impose such conditions and regulations as were necessary for
the general protection of the streets and the uses of the same
in the borough; that in doing this the borough could not be
questioned, provided the license fee was a reasonable and
just one and a proper one under the circumstances and commensurate with the probable requirements and exercise of the
police or supervisory power of the borough. The court then
said that it had a great deal of doubt as matter of fact and
law as to whether this was a reasonable subjection or not,
and it was frank to say:
"That we are inclined to the view that this is an arbitrary
imposition of a license or tax rate. But it appears that our

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. NEW HOPE. 59
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

brethren upon the bench in other localities have adjudged that
similar rates are not unreasonable or unnecessary; but it is
argued upon the part of the defence that in those cases there
was not the same proof as has been developed here. There
was not shown as clearly as there is here that the amount of
money received as the result of the license was a clear revenue,
irrespective of any requirement for police regulation. In other
words, that this borough seems to have imposed a license fee
to be expended and used in the exercise of a power and a duty
which it has failed to exercise at all. Now then, gentlemen,
while the question as to whether an ordinance is reasonable or
not is for the court, and the court does not propose to evade
that question, yet I have concluded to obtain the assistance
and judgment of this jury as to whether an assessment, such
as this is, under the circumstances of this case, is reasonable
or unreasonable under the law, as I have laid it down, for this
surely involves the facts. Now if you believe that it is unreasonable according to the facts you will render a verdict for
the defendant; if you believe that it is reasonable and should
be paid in the full amount you will render a verdict for the
plaintiff for the amount of its claim, and the court hereafter
will regulate judgment in accordance with such views, either
upon a motion for a new trial or otherwise, as we shall entertain after having this opinion from you, in aid of its judgment,
and to determine the doubt on the facts."
The court further stated:
"The borough of New Hope had no right to impose any
charge for the privilege of erecting and maintaing said poles
and wires in said borough except only such sum as will reasonably cover and reimburse to it the expense to it which it
may be subjected in consequence of the erection and maintenance of said poles and wires, and if the license fees sued
for in this case exceed said sum, your verdict shall be for the
defendant."
Instead of finding a verdict for the amount due under the
ordinance, or else a verdict for the defendant, as directed by

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the court, the jury on October 17, 1899, found a verdict for

entered
$466.40. The trial judge directed judgment to be
that
for the borough for the amount of the verdict. From
Supethe
to
company
the
by
judgment an appeal was taken
that
rior Court of Pennsylvania, which affirmed the same,
question
the
court holding that, the facts being undisputed,
decide,
of the validity of the ordinance was for the court to
have
not
would
court
the
facts
and that if on the undisputed
submisthe
void,
ordinance
been warranted in declaring the
was an
sion of the question of its reasonableness to the jury
error of which the defendant had no just right to complain,
justified by
and the court held that it would not have been
the precedents in declaring the ordinance void.
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the Superior
jury was
Court, and upon the question that the verdict of the
that was a
for a less sum than the ordinance called for, said
matter of which, under the view of the law taken by the court,
plaintiff
(that the question of reasonableness was for it,) the
the defor
luck
good
might complain, but that it was such
therecompany
fendant that it might well rest satisfied. The
upon sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Frank R. Shattuck for plaintiff in error.
11Mr. William C. Ryan for defendant in error.
stateMR. JUsTIcE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing
court.
the
of
opinion
ment of facts, delivered the
may be
The ground upon which an ordinance of this nature
Telegraph
upheld is stated in the two cases of Western Union
&c. TeleAtlantic
and
419,
S.
U.
187
Company v. New Hope,
160.
S.
U.
190
graph Company v. Philadelphia,
the ordinance
The trial court held that the question whether
court, but he
in this case was reasonable or not was one for the
only, the
submitted it to the jury for their aid and as advisory

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE 00. v. NEW HOPE.
192 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

court stating to the jury that it would thereafter regulate the
judgment to be entered in accordance with such views as the
court might entertain as to the reasonableness of the ordinance, and after having the benefit of the assistance of the
jury upon that question.
The direction to the jury was to give a verdict for the full
sum, if it thought that the ordinance was reasonable, and if
not-that is, if the jury thought that the ordinance was not
reasonable-then the verdict should be for the defendant.
The jury did not obey that direction. It returned a verdict
for a considerably less sum than was due if the ordinance were
valid, and by such verdict (regard being had to the charge of
the judge) it necessarily found the license fee provided for in
the ordiniance was unreasonable and the ordinance itself invalid.
The verdict is, therefore, simply evidence of what the jury
conceived to be a reasonable sum, which it thereupon proceeded to assess by its verdict, and being much less than the
ordinance called for. It made itself a taxing body, the verdict
being the result of its own views as to what the fees should
have been. When the verdict was rendered and the court
directed judgment to be entered thereon it must have thereby
concurred with the jury and held the ordinance unreasonable
and therefore void. Otherwise, if the ordinance was valid,
the court would have directed judgment for the full sum without reference to the verdict. Finding, therefore, that the
ordinance was void, instead of directing judgment for the defendant, the court followed the jury and directed judgment
for the sum which the court regarded as reasonable, being the
same sum found by the jury. This follows because the court
had theretofore stated that in its view this ordinance was an
arbitrary imposition of a license tax, and the court also announced that the verdict of the jury was not conclusive and
would be acted upon by it in accordance with such views as it
might entertain after the verdict was rendered. But neither
the court nor the jury had any power whatever to give judgment for what either might regard a reasonable sum, if that

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

sum were less than the amount provided for in the ordinance.
The source of jurisdiction to give any verdict or judgment
for the plaintiff was the ordinance. If the amount of the
license fee provided for therein was unreasonable, the ordinance was void, and there was no power in either jury or court
to substitute its own judgment as to what was reasonable and
to give a verdict or direct a judgment to be entered for that
sum. Finding the sum named in the ordinance unreasonable,
the verdict or judgment should have been for the defendant.
The argument that plaintiff alone can complain that the
verdict is too small is not well founded in this instance. It is
undoubtedly the general rule that a verdict or judgment for a
less sum for the plaintiff than he is entitled to under the evidence is matter of complaint for him alone, and if actluiesced
in by him the defendant has no cause to complain that he is
charged for a less sum than he ought to have been. On
grounds already stated the reasons do not apply in a case like
this.
Both the Superior and the Supreme Courts of Pennsylvania
proceeded in their decisions upon the theory that the question
was for the court, and that the ordinance was valid; but as the
jury had found a less sum than provided for by the ordinance,
the judgment might stand, and the defendant could not in
such event complain that the judgment was too small. Those
courts in effect reverse the finding of the jury that the ordinance was unreasonable and void, while at the same time
maintaining a judgment based upon such finding.
In Western Union Telegraph Company v. Borough of New
Hope, 187 U. S. 419, the question of the reasonableness of the
license fee exacted was left to the jury, and the jury found a
verdict in favor of the plaintiff, and judgment was rendered
thereon, which was affirmed by the state courts upon appeal.
Upon writ of error from this court the case was reviewed here,
and it was held that, as the jury and the Court of Common
Pleas, the Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, had all held the ordinance reasonable, this court would

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. NEW HOPE.
192 U. S.

63

Opinion of the Court.

not say it was so manifestly wrong as to justify our interposition.
There is a difference, however, between such a case and one
like this, where the jury and the trial court have, in effect, held
the ordinance void, and a judgment has been entered which is
unauthorized in any event, and which should have been for
the defendant. Where it is a question of amount in an ordinance in a case like this, we have held that it is not improper
to submit that question to a jury, although in general the
reasonableness of an ordinance is matter of law for the court.
Atlantic &c. Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160.
In the case cited it was stated by Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking for the court, at page 166, as follows:
"It may be conceded that, generally speaking, whether an
ordinance be reasonable, is a question for the court. As said
by Judge Dillon, in his work on Municipal Corporations, 4th ed.
vol. 1, sec. 327: 'Whether an ordinance be reasonable and
consistent with the law or not is a question jor the court, and not
the jury, and evidence to the latter on this subject is inadmissible.' While that may be correct as a general statement
of the law, and especially in cases in which the question of
reasonableness turns on the character of the regulations prescribed, yet when it turns on the amount of a license charge
it may rightly be left for the determination of a jury. There
are many matters which enter into the consideration of such
a question, not infrequently matters which are disputed, and
in respect to which there is contradictory testimony."
We think that in this case, like that just cited, it was not
improper to submit the question to the jury, and that the
verdict necessarily found the license fee exacted by the ordinance unreasonable, and the ordinance itself was therefore
void. The jury could not itself assess a tax and render verdict for the amount it might judge reasonable. A judgment
entered upon such a verdict for the amount thereof was improper and illegal, as it should have been for the defendant,
the. ordinance being void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
192 U. S

Statement of the Case.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania should
be reversed and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

MvIR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO. v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 93. Argued December 11, 1903.-Decided January 4, 1904.

Courts are not to be deceived by the mere phraseology in which an ordinance may be couched when it appears conclusively that it was passed
for an unlawful purpose and not for the one stated therein.
A license fee cannot be imposed by ordinance of a municipality for purposes of inspection on telegraph companies doing an interstate business
which is so far in excess of the expenses of inspection that it is plain
that it was adopted, not to repay such expenses, but as a means for
raising revenue.

plaintiff in error seeks to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, which affirmed the judgment
of the Superior Court of that State, which in its turn affirmed
the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas of Lackawanna
County, in favor of the defendant in error in an action brought
by it to recover the amount of a license fee imposed upon all
telegraph, telephone and electric light companies having poles
and wires in the borough. The ordinance was of the same
nature as that mentioned in the immediately preceding case
of Postal Telegraph-Cable Company v. Borough of New Hope.
By the plaintiff's statement of its claim against the defendant, the telegraph company, it sought to recover from the
company the sum of $220.50, including interest from January 31, 1898.
THE

