OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

this case was made final in that court by the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891, and that, therefore, the writ of error should be
dismissed.

CORNELL v. COYNE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 113. Argued January 18, 19, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.
The prohibition in the Constitution against taxes or duties on exports attaches to exports as such and does not relieve articles manufactured for
export from the prior ordinary burdens of taxation which rest upon all
property similarly situated.
In construing a statute the title is referred to only in cases of doubt and
ambiguity; and where doubt exists as to the meaning of a statute in regard to a privilege claimed from the government thereunder it should be
resolved in favor of the government.
The fact that a quantity of "filled cheese" was manufactured expressly for
export does not exempt it from the tax imposed by the act of June 6,
1896, 29 Stat. 253, and the reference in that act to the provisions of existing laws governing the engraving, issue, etc., of stamps relating to tobacco
and snuff, and making them applicable to stamps used for taxes on filled
cheese as far as possible, does not relate to stamps issued without cost for
tobacco and snuff manufactured for export.

ON June 6, 1896, Congress passed an act, 29 Stat. 253, entitled "An act defining cheese, and also imposing a tax upon
and regulating the manufacture, sale, importation, and exportation of 'filled cheese.' " Section 2 defines "filled cheese."
Section 3 directs that "manufacturers of filled cheese shall pay
four hundred dollars for each and every factory per annum."
Section 6 provides for the stamping and branding of the wooden
packages in which manufacturers are required to pack filled
cheese, and that "all sales or consignments made by manufacturers of filled cheese to wholesale dealers in filled cheese

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

or to exporters of filled cheese shall be in original stamped
packages." Section 9 and 11 are as follows:
"SEc. 9. That upon all filled cheese which shall be manufactured there shall be assessed and collected a tax of one cent
per pound, to be paid by the manufacturer thereof; and any
fractional part of a pound in a package shall be taxed as a
pound. The tax levied by this section shall be represented
by coupon stamps; and the provisions of existing laws governing the engraving, issue, sale, accountability, effacement
and destruction of stamps relating to tobacco and snuff, as far
as applicable, are hereby made to apply to stamps provided
for by this section."
"SEC. 11. That all filled cheese as herein defined imported
from foreign countries shall, in addition to any import duty
imposed on the same, pay an internal revenue tax of eight
cents per pound, such tax to be represented by coupon stamps;
and such imported filled cheese and the packages containing
the same shall be stamped, marked and branded, as in the
case of filled cheese manufactured in the United States."
Plaintiffs in error were manufacturers of filled cheese, .entered into contracts for its manufacture and export, and under
such contracts manufactured and exported 1,580,479 pounds
of filled cheese. They were required by the defendant in error,
as collector, to purchase and affix stamps to the exported
packages of filled cheese. They protested against such required purchase, and applied to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, as authorized by section 3226, Rev. Stat., for a return
of the various sums so paid, but their application was rejected.
Thereupon they commenced this action in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. In the
declaration they alleged "that the requirements of the said
defendant, whereby the plaintiffs were compelled in the manner
aforesaid, to purchase and use the said revenue stamps, were
wholly unauthorized and unwarranted by law; and that section 9, of the act of Congress aforesaid, and said act itself in
that the same failed to contain provisions whereby filled cheese

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

192 U. S.

manufactured for export trade and exported and sold in foreign
markets wholly without the United States, might be exported
and sold free from the levy of any duty or tax thereon; or provision whereby the same might be freed from the force and
effect of said act, are repugnant to said section 9, article I, of
the Constitution of the United States, and that this suit, therefore, involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States."
A demurrer to the declaration was sustained. They elected
to stand by the declaration. Judgment was entered in favor
of the defendant, and thereupon this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. William E. Mason and Mr. Charles W. Greenfield, with
whom Mr. Lewis F. Mason and Mr. Charles E. Kremer were on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The levy and collection of the tax was unwarranted by law.
It was forbidden by the Constitution, which provides that
no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any
State. Art. I, Const., is devoted to the legislative branch of
the government; § 8 enumerates the powers of Congress; §9 the
limitations and restrictions thereon; par. 5, § 9, provides
that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from
any State." "Exported" is a perfect participle, and this
clause should be construed to mean that no tax or duty
shall be laid on any articles which are exported from any
State. Century Dictionary, verb "export" and word "participle."
Provisions of the Constitution must receive a reasonable
interpretation. Story on Const. § 419. And such reasonable
interpretation should be given as well to limitations upon the
power of Congress as to grants of power. Fairbankv. United
States, 181 U. S. 283.
The same word should not necessarily be construed in the
same sense wherever it occurs in the same instrument. Story
on Const. § 454. This provision was to prevent discrimination
by Congress between the States, and prohibits any taxation by

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

•421

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Congress upon articles which are "exported." Pace v. Burgess,
92 U. S. 372; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; Story
on Const. § 1014.
Cases involving the question of interstate commerce such
as Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, and kindred cases, have no application. There is a distinction between the terms "tax" and
"duty" as used in this clause. The latter is a charge fixed by
reason of exportation or importation, while the former applies
to any charge which may be laid upon persons or property for
the support of the government. Story on Const. § 952; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433; Hylton v. United States, 3
Dall. 171; Savings & Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 21 Wall. 655;
Dooley v. United States, 183 U. S. 151.
It is a fair conclusion from the facts set up in the declaration
that the intended export of the filled cheese therein mentioned
was the immediate cause of the levy and collection of the tax
involved in this case.
This provision of the Constitution is self-executing. Groves
v. Slaughter, 15 Pet. 449; Davis v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399; Dill v.
Ellicott, 7 Fed. Cas. 691; Ill. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Ihlenberg, 75 Fed.
Rep. 873; Law v. People, 87 Illinois, 385, 392; Wash. Home v.
City, 157 Illinois, 414, 426; Fuller v. Chicago, 89 Illinois, 282,
approved by this court in Buchananv. Litchfield, 102 U. S. 278.
The same principle was upheld in Board of Lake Co. Comrs. v.
Rollins, 103 U. S. 662; Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83;
Doon Township y. Cummins, 142 U. S. 370.
This provision of the Constitution and the act of June 6,
1896, like statutes in pari materia must be construed together,
and taken together they constitute the law governing the
powers and duties of the revenue officers of the government.
Cooley on Const. Lim. p. 3; Story on Const. § 374; Cooper Mfg.
Co. v. Ferguson,113 U. S. 727; Billingsley v. State, 14 Maryland,
369, 376.
Statutes in pari materia are construed together. United
States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556, 564; Doe ex dem. Pattersonv.
Winn, 11 Wheat. 380, 386; Atkins v. Fiber, etc. Co., 18 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

192 U. S.

301; Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S. 84; The Sloop Elizabeth, 1 Paine
C. C. R. 11; S. C., 8 Fed. Cas. 468; Potter's Dwarris on Statutes,
p. 189 and note; Smith's Commentaries, Statutory and Constitutional Construction, p. 751.
Revenue laws are liberally construed, Cliquot v. United
States, 3 Wall. 114; Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374, against as
well as in favor of the government. United States v. Stowell,
133 U. S. 1.
Courts, in construing a statute, will restrain its operation
within narrower limits than its words import if satisfied that
the liberal meaning of its language would extend to cases which
a legislature never designed to include in it. Lessee of Brewer
v. Blougher, 14 Pet. 178, 198; Oates v. National Bank, 100 U. S.
239, 244; United States v. Am. Bell Tel. Co., 159 U. S. 548;
McKee v. United States, 164 U. S. 287; Woolridge v. McKenny,
8 Fed. Rep. 650, 659.
Where there are two acts or provisions, one special and
particular, the other general, if the general standing alone
would include the same matter and thus conflict with the
special, the special provision must be taken as an exception.
Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S. 83; Crane v. Reeder, 22
Michigan, 322, 334; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 570;
Black on Interpretation of Laws, 116; Sedgwick on Const. of
Stat. and Const. Law, 98.
A law requiring two repugnant and incompatible things is
incapable of receiving a literal construction, and must sustain
some change of language to be rendered intelligible in order to
arrive at the intention of the legislature. Huidekoper's Lessee
v. Douglass, 3 Cranch, 1, 66.
Additional words of qualification may be added to a general
provision. Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S. 83.
Courts avoid constructions which make a law unconstitutional. United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72; United States v.
Cent. Pac. Ry. Co., 118 U. S. 241; Hooper v. People, 155 U. S.
657; GrenadaCo. v. Brown, 112 U. S. 261; Parsons v. Bedford,
3 Pet. 433, 449.

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Courts also avoid a construction which makes a law ridiculous or absurd. Holy Trinity Church, etc. v. United States, 143
U. S. 457; United States v. Hogg, 112 Fed. Rep. 909; 50 C. C. A.
608.
The court, in construing a doubtful statute, will consider the
title of the act. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 387;
United States v. Palmer,3 Wheat. 610, 631; Smythe v. Fiske, 23
Wall. 374; Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457;
Hadden v. Collector, 5 Wall. 107; United States v. Trans.
Mo., etc., Assn., 166 U. S. 290; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410;
Coosaw Mining Co. v. State of South Carolina, 144 U. S. 550.
Also the act as a whole, including all its provisions. United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 386; United States v. Stowell,
133 U. S. 1.
It was the duty of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
to make regulations whereby filled cheese could be exported
without payment of the tax. Section 18, Act of June 6, 1896,
provides that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall make all needful regulations for the carrying into effect the provisions of the
said act. 29 Stat. 253; 2 U. S. Comp. Stat. 2236.
The regulation of the commissioner requiring a manufacturer to affix the proper tax-paid stamp on the withdrawal of
a package was unauthorized. The commissioner or Secretary
of the Treasury cannot make regulations which will defeat the
law. Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S. 410; United States
v. 100 Barrels of Whiskey, 95 U. S. 571; Morrill v. Jones, 106
U. S. 467.
If the collector, under the strict letter of the act of June 6,
1896, was required to levy and collect the tax in question,
then said act is unconstitutional. Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S.
372; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; Dooley v. United
States, 183 U. S.151; Marbury v. Madeson, 1 Cranch, 178.
The construction placed by Congress upon this clause of the
Constitution, by inserting in all prior and subsequent internal
revenue acts a provision for exportation without payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

the tax, should have great weight in determining the constitutionality of the act. Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299; BarrowGiles Lith. Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53; The Laura,114 U. S. 411;
United States v. Filbrick, 120 U. S. 52, 59; United States v. Hill,
120 U. S. 169, 182; Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607, 613;
Schell v. Fauche, 138 U. S. 562, 572.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for defendant in
error:
It was not the purpose of the act of June 6, 1896, to exempt
from the tax imposed thereby, filled cheese exported from any
State, and § 3385, Rev. Stat., providing for free stamps for
tobacco and snuff to be exported has no applicability to the
engraving, issue, etc., of stamps. It cannot be construed to
apply to revenue stamps designated by the act of 1896, and
especially cannot exempt from tax the very article which,
without exception, said act subjects thereto.
The title and preamble of an act are no part of it and cannot
enlarge or confer powers or control the words of the same unless
they are doubtful or ambiguous. Yazoo & Miss. Val. R. R.
Co. v. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174, 188; Price v. Forrest,173 U. S.
410, 427.
There is no doubt or ambiguity about the imposition of a
tax upon all filled cheese manufactured in the United States
by the act in question, and although its title may indicate a
purpose to regulate exportation of filled cheese, there is, in
fact, nothing in its body attempting to carry out any such
purpose. The principles laid down by this court in Turpin v.
Burgess, 117 U. S. 504, are decisive of the present controversy.
And see earlier opinions by Mr. Justice Bradley in Pace v.
Burgess, 92 U. S. 372; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Coe
v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; also Miller's Lectures on Const. 593,
citing these cases. Early revenue laws taxed manufactured
articles, although intended for export. March 3, 1791, 1 Stat.
199, c. 15, §§ 15, 51; December 21, 1814, 3 Stat. 152, c. 15.
Mere intention or contract to export goods does not con-

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

stitute them articles of commerce and make laying a tax upon
them contrary to the provisions of the Federal Constitution.
For definitions of "export," see Webster's Inter. Dictionary;
United States v. Steamboat Forrester, Fed. Gas. No. 15,132;
Muller v. Baldwin, L. R. 9 Q. B. 457, 1874. For proceedings
in constitutional convention on this provision of the Constitution, see Elliot's Debates, vol. 5, 432, 433, 454, 455, 487; see
also as to state legislation prior to 1787, Mercer's Abridgement,
Public Acts, Virginia, in force 1758; 32 Car. II, c. 2; Laws of
Virginia, 3 Henning's Stat. at L. 356, ch. XXIX; 2 Stat. South
Carolina, 1682, 1716, 64; Bacon's Laws of Maryland, 1704,
ch. 27.
Chief Justice Marshall said: "The States are forbidden to lay
a duty on exports, and the United States are forbidden to lay
a tax or duty on articles exported from any State. There is
some diversity in language, but none is perceivable in the act
which is prohibited."
The terms "exports" and "articles exported," in construing
constitutional provisions, have been constantly used by this
court as interchangeable and as meaning the same thing. It
is now well settled that the words "imports" and "exports,"
when they appear in the Constitdtion, apply only to articles
brought from, or sent to, foreign countries, and are used solely
in reference to foreign commerce. Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419, 444; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 131; License
Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 471; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Dooley v.
United States, 183 U. S. 154; Fairbank v. United States, 181
U. S. 283; Story on Constitution, § 1014.
This court has decided that the uniformity of excises contemplated by the Constitution refers to a geographical uniformity and that the purpose was that such exactions should
operate generally throughout the United States, that is, to be
laid to the same amount on the same articles in each State.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 96, 106.
Nothing produced in any State can become an article of
interstate commerce until committed to a common carrier

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

for transportation out of the State, or until it has started on
its ultimate passage to another State. The same rule-except as to destination only-must determine the moment when
an article of foreign commerce becomes such. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 202; Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38, 50.
The fact that an article is manufactured for export does not
make it an article of commerce. There is a clear distinction
between manufacture and commerce. Kidd v. Pearson, 128
U. S. 1, 20; County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 702;
United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.
MR. JusTIcE BRE@WER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
.The contention is that inasmuch as this filled cheese was
manufactured under contract for export, and was in fact exported, the tax of one cent per pound prescribed by section 9
was prohibited by the fifth paragraph of section 9, article I,
of the Constitution, which reads: "No tax or duty shall be laid
on articles exported from any State."
But this means that no burden shall be placed on exportation, and does not require that any bounty be given therefor.
Congress has power to encourage exportation by remitting
taxes on goods manufactured at home as it has power to encourage manufactures by duties on imports, yet the Constitution does not compel it to do either the one or the other. This
power of encouraging is illustrated by section 11 of this act,
which requires all imported filled cheese to pay, in addition to
import duties, an internal revenue tax of eight cents a poundeight times as much as that manufactured at home. To remit
on articles exported the tax which is cast upon other like articles consumed at home, while perhaps not technically a bounty
on exportation, has some of the elements thereof. By this act
all filled cheese is subject to a manufacturing tax of one cent a
pound. To remit that tax in favor of filled cheese exported
may encourage the manufacturer to seek a foreign rather than

CQRNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Courb.

a home market, but if the full tax on all filled cheese manufactured is required for the support of the government the
remission of part necessitates revenue from some other source.
Doubtless the remission is given in hope of widening the market and increasing the production, but that is only a possibility
of the future, while the loss in the revenue is a fact of the present. Subjecting filled cheese manufactured for the purpose
of export to the same tax as all other filled cheese is casting no
tax or duty on articles exported, but is only a tax or duty on
the manufacturing of articles in order to prepare them for
export. While that which is asked in this case is the return
of a manufacturing tax there is nothing in the constitutional
provision to distinguish between manufacturing and other
taxes, and if the plaintiff's contention be sustained as to a
manufacturing tax it would follow that the government was
bound to refund all prior taxes imposed on articles exported.
A farmer may raise cattle with the purpose of exportation, and
in fact export them. Can it be that he is entitled to a return
of all property taxes which have been cast upon those cattle?
The true construction of the constitutional provision is that no
burden by way of tax or duty can be cast upon the exportation
of articles, and does not mean that articles exported are relieved from the prior ordinary burdens of taxation which rest
upon all property similarly situated. The exemption attaches
to the export and not to the article before its exportation.
Such has been the ruling of this court. In Turpin v. Burgess,
117 U. S.504, 506, where the question was as to an export
stamp tax on tobacco, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the
court, said:
"The constitutional prohibition against taxing exports is
substantially the same when directed to the United States as
when directed to a State. In the one case the words are, 'No
tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State.'
Art. I, sec. 9, par. 5. In the other they are, 'No State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports.' Art. I, see. 10, par. 2. The prohibition

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

in both cases has reference to the imposition of duties on goods
by reason or because of their exportation or intended exportation, or whilst they are being exported. That would be laying
a tax or duty on exports, or on articles exported, within the
meaning of the Constitution. But a general tax, laid on all
property alike, and not levied on goods in course of exportation, nor because of their intended exportation, is not within
the constitutional prohibition."
See also Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622; Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S.517.
Justice Miller, in his lectures on the Constitution (p. 592)
says:
"The Congress of. the United States, during the late civil
war, imposed a tax upon cotton and tobacco, which tax was
not limited to those products when in the process of transportation, but was assessed on all the cotton and tobacco in the
country. It was argued that because the larger part of these
products was exported out of the country and sold to foreign
nations, and because their production was limited to a particular part of the country, the tax was forbidden by the corresponding clause of the Constitution prohibiting Congress
from levying a tax on exports. Although the question came
at that time to the Supreme Court of the United States, it was
not then decided, because of a division of opinion in that court.
The recent cases, however, of Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517, and
Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S.504, seem to decide that the objection was not valid, and hold that only such property as is
in the actual process of exportation, and which has begun its
voyage or its preparation for the voyage, can be said to be an
export."
Some light is thrown on this question by the cases of Kidd
v. Pearson,128 U. S.1, and United States v. E. C. Knight Company, 156 U. S.1. In the former a manufacturer of intoxicating liquors in Iowa claimed to be beyond the reach of the
prohibitory law of the State on the ground that he manufactured only for exportation, and therefore as Congress had

CORNELL v. 'COYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

exclusive control over interstate commerce it had like control
over the manufacture for interstate commerce. But this
court, in an elaborate opinion by Mr. Justice Lamar, unanimously held against the contention, and decided that commerce did not commence until manufacture was finished, and
that therefore the State was not prevented from exercising
exclusive control over the manufacture. In the latter case
the question was whether a monopoly of the business of manufacturing sugar within a State was a restraint of interstate
commerce, and therefore within the purview of the act of
Congress to protect trade and commerce against unlawful
restraints and monopolies, 26 Stat. 209, and it was held that
it did not, Chief Justice Fuller announcing the opinion of the
court, saying (pp. 12 and 13):
"Commerce succeeds to manufacture, and is not a part of
it.

.

.

.

The fact that an article is manufactured for ex-

port to another State does not of itself make it an article of
interstate commerce, and the intent of the manufacturer does
not determine the time when the article or product passes
from the control of the State and belongs to commerce."
There is nothing in the case of Fairbank v. United States,
181 U. S. 283, inconsistent with these views. There the question was as to the validity of a stamp tax on a foreign bill of
lading, and it was held that it was a tax directly on the exportation. As said in the opinion with reference to the constitutional provision (p. 292): "The purpose of the restriction
is that exportation, all exportation, shall be free from national
burden." It is unnecessary to refer to the earlier legislation
of Congress which, as shown by counsel for the government in
his brief, has been in harmony with this construction. From
what we have said it is clear that there is no constitutional
objection to the imposition of the same manufacturing tax on
filled cheese manufactured for export and, in fact, exported,
as upon other filled cheese.
Although the only charge in the declaration and the only
matter complained of in the assignments of error is the uncon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

stitutionality of the act, and especially of section 9 thereof,
in failing to contain provisions for the exportation of filled
cheese free from the levy of any tax or duty, counsel have in
this court made a further contention that if the act be constitutional, it is because, properly construed, it does provide
for exportation free from tax or duty. The argument is that
the title of the act names as one of its purposes to regulate
"exportation;" that while in the act there is no express provision for exportation, section 9, in reciting that "the provisions of existing laws governing the engraving, issue, sale,
accountability, effacement and destruction of stamps relating
to tobacco and snuff, as far as applicable, are hereby made to
apply to stamps provided for by this section," is to be construed as incorporating all provisions respecting stamps "relating to tobacco and snuff," including those for stamps on
exports, which are issued free of charge.
Assuming, without deciding, that we may rightfully reverse
the judgment of the Circuit Court for a failure to consider a
question which was not presented, and that we may treat the
declaration as amended so as to present this question, we are
of opinion that the contention as to the construction of the
act cannot be sustained. The title of an act is referred to only
in cases of doubt or ambiguity.
"The title is no part of an act and cannot enlarge or confer
powers, or control the words of the act unless they are doubtful
or ambiguous. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 386;
Yazoo & Mississippi Railroad v. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174, 188.
The ambiguity must be in the context and not in the title to
render the latter of any avail." United States v. Oregon &c.
Railroad, 164 U. S. 526, 541. See also Price v. Forrest, 173
U. S. 410, 427, and cases cited.
There is no doubt or ambiguity in the act. Section 9 explicitly declares "that upon all filled cheese which shall be
manufactured there shall be assessed and collected a tax of
one cent per pound, to be paid by the manufacturer thereof."
And while the section contains a reference to existing laws

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

governing the engraving, issue, etc., of stamps relating to
tobacco and snuff, that clause is a part of the sentence which
provides that the tax levied by this section shall be represented
by coupon stamps, and the existing laws governing the engraving, issue, etc., of stamps are in terms "hereby made to
apply to stamps provided for by this section" as far as applicable. In other words, the provisions of existing laws concerning the engraving, issue, etc., of stamps are made applicable
only to stamps representing taxes. There is neither directly
nor indirectly any reference to stamps issued without cost to
cover an exportation free from tax or duty. While in section 3
there is special reference by number to various sections of the
Revised Statutes concerning special taxes, and they are made
to extend so far as applicable to the taxes authorized by this
act, there is nowhere any mention of section 3385, Rev. Stat.,
which provides for relieving exported manufactured tobacco
and snuff from the manufacturing tax. Further, in section 6
it is directed that all sales to exporters of filled cheese shall be
in original stamped packages, and this direction is in the same
sentence with that providing for sales to wholesale dealers.
Clearly there is nothing in the body of the act exempting exported filled cheese from the ordinary manufacturing tax on
other filled cheese. But if there were a doubt as to the meaning of the statute that doubt should be resolved in favor of the
government. Whoever claims a privilege from the government should point to a statute which clearly indicates the
purpose to grant the privilege.
"But if there be any doubt as to the proper construction of
this statute, (and we think there is none,) then that construction must be adopted which is most advantageous to the interests of the government. The statute being a grant of a
privilege, must be construed most strongly in favor of the
grantor. Gildart v. Gladstone, 12 East, 668, 675; Charles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 544; Dubuque & Pacific
Railroad v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66; The Binghamton Bridge, 3
Wal. 51, 75; Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358, 380; Leaven-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HA.LnAN, J., and FULLER, CH. J., dissenting.

192 U. S.

worth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S.
733; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659." Hannibal
&c. Railroad Co. v. Packet Co., 125 U. S. 260, 271.
Why Congress should grant an exemption from manufacturing tax in the case of exported tobacco and not in the case of
exported filled cheese, is not for us to determine. Doubtless
the reasons which prompted such difference were satisfactory.
It is enough that no exemption has been made in favor of the
latter.
The judgment of the Circuit Court was right, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BROWN did not hear the argument and took

no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, with whom MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
FULLER concurred, dissenting.

As this case went off upon demurrer by the Government to
the declaration its material allegations must be taken as true.
The case cannot properly be dealt with -upon any other basis.
The declaration shows that the plaintiffs in error, who were
plaintiffs below, were engaged in the business of manufacturing
what is known in commercial circles as filled cheese; and that
in execution of certain contracts made with foreign customers
the plaintiffs manufactured large quantities of filled cheese,
and shipped it by instalments, directly from their factory in
Illinois to Liverpool and London. It alleged that "each quantity or instalment of filled cheese manufactured, exported and
delivered by the plaintiffs under said contracts was forwarded
by the plaintiffs as soon as the same was ready for shipment from
their factory in said district, and prior to the shipment thereof the
plaintiffs applied to the defendant as such collector for permission to ship and forward the same without purchasing, and
attaching to said filled cheese or to the said packages containing
the said filled cheese the revenue stamps required by an alleged

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

HARLA,

J., and FULLER, CH.J., dissenting.

act of Congress, approved June 6, A. D. 1896, with reference
to internal revenue; but notwithstanding the fact that such
filled cheese was manufactured for export, and was about to be
delivered by the plaintiffs for export and shipment to a foreign
market

.

.

.

the defendant did at various times during

said period, and on the dates of shipment of said filled cheese,
by force, duress, exact," etc.
Upon the occasion of each of the shipments the internal
revenue collector exacted. and collected (against the protest
of the plaintiffs) a tax upon the cheese of one cent per pound,
the collector insisting that such a tax was imposed by the act
of Congress of June 6, 1896, entitled "An act defining cheese,
and also imposing a tax upon and regulating the manufacture,
sale, importation, and exportation of 'filled cheese.'" 29
Stat. 253, c. 337.
The first question to be considered is whether Congress intended by that act to impose a tax of one cent per pound upon
filled cheese manufactured for exportation, and which, it is
admitted, was in fact exported immediately after being so
manufactured. Such is the case before the court for consideration.
The ninth section of the act of 1896, under which the collection proceeded, pr.ovides that "upon all filled cheese which
shall be manufactured there shall be assessed and collected a
tax of one cent per pound, to be paid by the manufacturer
thereof; and any fractional part of a pound in a package shall
be taxed as a pound. The tax levied by this section shall be
represented by coupon stamps; and the provisions of existing
laws governing the engraving, issue, sale, accountability, effacement and destruction of stamps relating to tobacco and
snuff, as far as applicable, are hereby made to apply to stamps
provided for by this section." §'9.
Observe that the section refers to "existing laws" relating,
among other things, to the issue and sale of stamps for tobacco
and snuff. That reference, I submit, embraced section 3385 of
the Revised Statutes, Title, Internal Revenue, which provides
VOL. OxcII-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARL,

J., and FULLER, CH. J., dissenting.

192 U. S.

"Manufactured tobacco, snuff, and cigars intended for immediate exportation, may, after being properly inspected, marked,
and branded, be removed from the manufactory in bond without having affixed thereto the stamps indicating the payment of
the tax thereon. The removal of such tobacco, snuff, and cigars
from the manufactory shall be made under such regulations,
and after making such entries and executing and filing, with
the collector of the district from which the removal is to be
made, such bonds and bills of lading, and giving such other
additional security as may be prescribed by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue and approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury. There shall be affixed to each package of tobacco,
snuff, and cigars intended for immediate export, before it is removed from the manufactory, an engraved stamp, indicative of
such intention. Such stamp shall be provided and furnished
to the several collectors as in the case of other stamps, and be
charged to them and accounted for in the same manner; and
for the expense attending the providing and affixing thereof,
ten cents for each package so stamped shall be paid to the
collector on making the entry for such transportation. When
the manufacturer has made the proper entries, filed the bonds,
and otherwise complied with all the requirements of the law
and regulations as herein provided, the collector shall issue to
him a permit for the removal, accurately describing the tobacco, snuff, and cigars to be shipped, the number and kind
of packages, the number of pounds, the amount of tax, the
marks and brands, the State and collection-district from which
the same are shipped, the number of the manufactory and the
manufacturer's name, the port from which the said tobacco,
snuff, and cigars are to be exported, the route or routes over
which the same are to be sent to the port of shipment, and the
name of the vessel or line by which they are to be conveyed to
the foreign port. The bonds required to be given for the exportation of the tobacco, snuff, and cigars shall be canceled
upon the presentation of the proper certificates that said
tobacco, snuff, and cigars have been landed at any port without

CORNELL v.
192 U. S.

-COYNE.

HRLA&a, J., and FuIERn, CH. J., dissenting.

the jurisdiction of the United States, or upon satisfactory proof
that after shipment the same were lost at sea."
It requires no argument to prove that, under that section,
manufactured tobacco and snuff "intended for immediate exportation" could be exported without payment of any tax
and without having affixed thereto any stamp other than "an
engraved stamp indicative of such intention." The effect of
the reference in the last clause of the ninth section of the act
of 1896, to "existing laws governing the engraving, issue, sale,
accountability, effacement and destruction of stamps relating
to tobacco and snuff" was, I think, to incorporate into that
act section 3385 of the Revised Statutes, so far as it could be
made applicable to filled cheese, and to allow filled cheese
intended for immediate exportation to be removed from the
manufactory without payment of any tax, having affixed to it
no other stamp than one engraved and indicating the-intention
to export. In that view, which seems to me incontestable, the
purpose of Congress was to put manufactured filled cheese,
intended for immediate exportation, upon the same footing as
manufactured tobacco and snuff intended for immediate exportation and to permit its exportation without payment of
any tax. Certainly section 3385 was one of the existing laws
at the date of the passage of the act of 1896, and if applied to
that act the result, I submit, must be as just stated. This
question is within such narrow compass that it cannot be
elucidated by extended discussion; and if the -bare reading of
the above statutes, all together, does not bring the mind to the
conclusion indicated by me, argument to that end would be
unavailing.
So I leave that question and come to the proposition that if
the act of 1896 is to be construed as imposing a tax upon the
plaintiffs' cheese, when about to be exportedi thenit is in conflict with the Constitution.
The eighth section of Article II of the Constitution enumerates certain powers which Congress may exercise, while the
ninth section specifies certain things that Congress may not

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN, J., and FULLER, CE. J., dissenting.

192 U. S.

do. The express words of that instrument are that "no tax or
duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State." Manifestly, so far as any prohibitory action by Congress is concerned,
the object of that provision was to open the markets of the
world to the products and manufactures of the several States,
freed from any tax or burden whatever imposed by the United
States. This court said in Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.
283, 292, that the "purpose of the restriction [on the power of
Congress] is that exportation, all exportation, shall be free
from national burden."
I do not contend that the owner of an article about to be
exported could rightfully ship it to a foreign country, without
paying such tax as had legally attached in favor of the Government prior to the date on which the owner formed the purpose to
export. An existing property tax upon manufactured articles
which had become a part of the general mass of property and
was held in the possession of the owner for purposes of sale or,
use in this country, could not be defeated by reason of the fact
that the owner-subsequent to manufacture, and after a substantial interval of time-formed the intention to export it.
But that is not this case, although the court seems to treat it
as if it were one of that kind. The Government admitted by
its demurrer to the declaration that the filled cheese in question
was manufactured for exportation; that upon the completion
of the manufacture the plaintiff as soon as it was ready for
shipment from their factory set about to export it; and that it
was ready to be delivered for such exportation, when the collector took the position that before it could be removed from
his district and exported, the tax of one cent per pound, imposed by the ninth section of the act of 1896 "upon all filled
cheese which shall be manufactured," must be paid. It is, in
effect, admitted of record that the plaintiffs never had any
other purpose than to export the cheese, as soon as manufactured, in fulfilment of contracts previously made with foreign customers, and that they promptly prepared it for exportation. There was no appreciable interval of time between

CORNELL v. COYNE.
192 U. S.

HARLAN, J., and FULLER, CH.J., dissenting.

the commencement of manufacture, and the preparation for
exportation, when it could be reasonably said that the cheese
had become a part of the general mass of property in the
locality of its manufacture for purposes of sale, delivery, or
consumption in this country. So that the question arises
whether it is consistent with the constitutional injunction,
"no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any
State," that, at the instant when an article admittedly manufactured for exportation is being prepared in good faith
for exportation, not for sale or consumption here, a national tax be laid on such article as property. If that question be answered in the affirmative, then the purpose of the
constitutional restriction, that "all exportation shall be free
from national burden," may be defeated; for if, in such
circumstances as are disclosed in this case, Congress can impose a tax of one cent per pound on filled cheese, manufactured
and intended for immediate exportation, and about to be exported, it can impose such taxes on articles manufactured in
this country and intended for immediate exportation as will
make it impossible for manufacturers to secure, or will deter
them from attempting to secure, contracts with foreign consumers or buyers. The result would be that Congress, in time
of peace, and by means of taxation, could bring about a condition of utter occlusion between the manufacturers of this
country and the markets of other countries. Indeed, the
several States could bring about that result by taxation; for
if an article manufactured for exportation and which was
prepared for exportation as soon as manufacture was completed, is not an export from the moment such preparation was.
begun, then a State may impose a tax upon it as property and
compel the payment thereof before the article is removed from
its limits for exportation. I do not think that the framers of
the Constitution contemplated such a condition as possible.
In support of the views expressed in it the opinion reproduces the following observations by Mr. Justice .Miller in one
of his lectures on Constitutional Law p. (592): "The Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN,

J., and

FULLER, CH. J., dissenting.

192 U. S.

of the United States, during the late civil war, imposed a tax
upon cotton and tobacco, which tax was not limited to those
products when in the process of transportation, but was assessed on all the cotton and tobacco in the country. It was
argued that because the larger part of these products was
exported out of the country and sold to foreign nations, and
because their production was limited to a particular part of the
country, the tax was forbidden by the corresponding clause
of the Constitution prohibiting Congress from levying a tax on
exports. Although the question came at that time to the
Supreme Court of the United States, it was not then decided,
because of a division of opinion in that court. The recent
cases, however, of Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517, and Turpin v.
Burgess, 117 U. S.504, seem to decide that the objection was
not valid, and hold that only such property as is in the actual
process of exportation, and which has begun its voyage or
its preparationfor the voyage, can be said to be an export."
I submit that these observations do not justify the conclusion announced by the court; for, the eminent jurist who made
them says that property is to be deemed an export from the
time it is in the actual process of exportation and "its preparation for the voyage" has begun. That is, in substance, the
precise principle for which I am contending. Whilst the cheese
was in the process of being manufactured, it was not of course
a subject of taxation under the statute. It became manufactured filled cheese only when manufacture was completed.
But, as soon as it was manufactured and prepared for shipment, and when it was about to be started on its journey to
Europe, the collector exacted from the plaintiffs the property
tax imposed by the act of 1896. In my judgment, within the
meaning of the Constitution, and in every just sense, the cheese
was in the actual process of exportation, and became an export
from the moment when, immediately alter the completion of
manufacture, without loss of time, the plaintiffs, in good faith,
prepared it for shipment in fulfillment of their contracts with
foreign customers. In the Fairbank case the court held that

CORNELL v. "COYNE.
192 U. S.

HARLAN,

J, and

FULLER,

CH. J., dissenting.

a mere stamp tax on a bill of lading taken at the time articles
were shipped from a State to a foreign country was a tax on
the a*rticles themselves as exports, and was forbidden by the
constitutional provision that no tax or duty shall be laid on
articles exported from any State. It is now held that a tax
on articles admittedly manufactured only for exportation and
not for sale or consumption in this country, and which are
exported as soon as they can be made ready for shipment, after
the completion of manufacture, in execution of contracts entered into prior to the commencement of manufacture, is a tax
on the articles themselves as property and not on them as exports.
In short, the effect of the present decision is to say that, if
Congress so wills, articles manufactured in this country, although manufactured only for exportation, and not for sale
or consumption here, cannot be exported to other countries,
except subject to such tax as Congress may choose to impose
on the manufactured articles as property. Thus, despite the
express prohibition of all taxes or duties upon articles exported from the States, Congress is recognized as having the
same power over exports from the several States as it has
exercised over imports from foreign countries. I do not think
it has such power.
The views I have expressed are not in conflict with the
judgment in Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 504, cited in the
opinion of the court. That was not a case of a property tax
upon a manufactured article intended for exportation, but a
mere stamp tax imposed by the internal revenue law upon
manufactured tobacco, and placed upon the tobacco in order
to indicate the purpose to export it. The only issue was as to
the validity of the statute imposing that stamp tax. There
was nothing to show any purpose to export the goods immediately upon the completion of manufacture. The goods remained in the factory, and the court said that they "might
never be exported," and."whether they would be or not would
depend altogether on the will of the manufacturer." There
was no showing of preparation for exportation'as soon as such

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

preparation could begin after manufacture. In the present
case, as we have seen, it is admitted that the filled cheese was
manufactured for exportation and was being prepared, immediately after manufacture, for exportation. The tax here was,
in effect, collected while the cheese was being made ready for
exportation, and therefore, to use the words of Turpin v.
Burgess, whilst it "was being exported."
For the reasons stated, I am constrained to dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in

this opinion.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. ADAMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 143. Argued January 25, 26, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.

When a railroad company gives gratuitously, and a passenger accepts, a
pass, the former waives its rights as a common carrier to exact compensation; and, if the pass contains a condition to that effect, the latter assumes
the risks of ordinary negligence of the company's employes; the arrangement is one which the parties may make and no public policy is violated
thereby. And if the passenger is injured or killed while riding on such a
pass gratuitously given, which he has accepted with knowledge of the
conditions therein, the company is not liable therefor either to him or to
his heirs, in the absence of wilful or wanton negligence.
A railroad company is not under two measures of liability-one to the passenger and the other to his heirs. The latter claim under him and can recover only in case he could have recovered had he been injured only
and not killed.

A statute of Idaho reads as follows:
"When the death of a person, not being a minor, is caused

