ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

*

149

Syllabus.

to create a debt to the bankrupt and not a diminution of his
estate.
In our opinion the referee and the District Court were right
in holding that the amount of the deposit could be set off
against the claim of the bank, allowing it to prove for the
balance, and the Circuit Court of Appeals, in holding that
this deposit amounted to a preference to be surrendered before proving the debt, committed error.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and that
of the District Court affirmed; cause remanded to latter court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY v. MARTIN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 86. Argued December 8,9,1903.-Decided January 11, 1904.
This court has jurisdiction to review, on writ of error, a final decision of
the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, where the value or sum in dispute
exceeds $5000, exclusive of costs. The Circuit Court of Appeals Act of
1891 does not apply to such a case.
Where a policy of insurance excepts loss happening during invasion, rebellion, etc., unless satisfactory proof be made that it was occasioned
by independent causes, a notice by the company, without demanding
proof, that it will not pay the loss because it was occasioned by one of
the excepted causes amounts to a waiver, and relieves the insured from
producing such proofs before commencing suit, and how the loss was
occasioned is for the jury to determine.
Where a policy for separate specified amounts on a building and goods contained in it provides that it shall cease to be in force as to any property
passing from the insured otherwise than by due process of law without
notice to, and endorsement by, the company, a transfer of all the goods
by the insured to a firm of which he is a silent partner, the active partners
having possession and control, is such an alienation as will avoid the
policy in respect to the goods, but not as to the building separately insured.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William G. Choate for plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction of this case. Act establishing
the government of Porto Rico, act of April 12, 1900, c. 191,
31 Stat. 85.
The law determining the cases in which writs of error to
and appeals from the Supreme Courts of the Territories of
the United States may be taken, appears in the following
statutes: Rev. Stat. § 702; act of March 3, 1885, c. 355,
23 Stat. 443; Circuit Court of Appeals act of March 3, 1891, c.
517, § 15, 26 Stat. 826, 828, and see Shute v. Keyser, 149 U. S.
649; Aztec Mining Co. v. Ripley, 53 Fed. Rep. 7; S. C., 151 U. S.
79; Folsom v. United States, 160 U. S. 121; and Simms v.
Simms, 175 U. S. 162, 166, where the effect of these statutes
is considered, that the appellate jurisdiction of this court from
Supreme Courts of the Territories remains unimpaired, except as such appellate jurisdiction is transferred to the Circuit
Courts of Appeals by the act of 1891.
The suits of which the Circuit Court has jurisdiction in
which an alien is a party are necessarily limited by the Constitution to "controversies between a State or the citizens
thereof and foreign States, citizens or subjects" (Constitution,
art. 3, sec. 2). This does not include under the term "citizens
thereof" a citizen of Porto Rico; it necessarily means a citizen
of one of the United States. And this limitation of suits in
which an alien is a party to suits between aliens and citizens
of the United States is recognized in the 6th section of the
Circuit Court of Appeals act, which has received a construction excluding its application to suits between foreign States
and a citizen of the United States. Colombia v. Cauca Co.,
190 U. S. 524, 526. And see Snow v. United States, 118 U. S.
346, 352; Ex parte Wilder's S. S. Co., 183 U. S. 545; Union
Central Life Ins. Co. v. Champlain, 116 Fed. Rep. 858.
On the merits the court below erred:
Upon the undisputed evidence in the case the policy was

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v.I MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

voided by this change of interest in the stock of gQods, a part
of the property insured. Germania FireIns. Co. v. Home Ins.
Co., 144 N. Y. 195, 199; Drennen v. London Assurance Co.,
20 Fed. Rep. 657; S.C., 113 U. S. 51; London Assurance Co. v.
Drennen, 116 U. S. 461; Card v. Plusnix Ins. Co., 4 Mo. App.
424. Cases in the Supreme Court of Iowa subsequent to the
case of Cowan v. State Ins. Co., 40 Iowa, 551, which is relied
on by the defendant in error, distinguish that case on the
ground that there was no provision in the policy in that case
relating to a change of title or interest, but a provision merely
in respect to a sale or conveyance which was held to mean a
technical sale of the whole property. Hathaway v. State Ins.
Co., 64 Iowa, 229; S.C., 20 N.W. Rep. 164; Oldham v. Ins. Co.,
90 Iowa, 225; S.C., 57 N. W. Rep. 861; Jones v. Phrnix Ins.
Co., 97 Iowa, 275; S.C., 66 N. W. Rep. 169, and see Beggs v.
Ins. Co., 88 N. Car. 141; May on Ins. (4th ed.) § 279; 3 Joyce
on Ins. §§ 2293-2295, and note reviewing cases; 1 Biddle on
Ins. § 224; Elliott on Ins. §273; Porter on Ins. (2d ed.) 180.
The ruling of the court deprived the defendant of the right
to have the verdict limited to the building if the condition did
not affect the insurance on thebuilding also. This defence of
a change of interest was fairly raised by the special plea and
also by the general issue. Edson v. Weston, 7 Cow. 280;
Chitty on P1.6th Am. ed. 513; Oscanyan v.Arms Co., 103 U.S.
261, citing 1 Chitty on Pleadings, 493; Craigv.The State of Missouri, 4 Pet. 410, 426; Young v. Rummell, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 278.
Trhe policy was void, for the reason that the fire occurred,
as the testimony shows, during an invasion, riot, etc.
A fair construction of this condition in the policy is that
where a state of invasion or martial law exists in the neighborhood where the fire was, the company is not liable for the
loss by fire, unless there be some evidence that the fire was
attributable to some other cause. The presumption created
by the policy is that it was attributable to the invasion. It
is not enough that there was no evidence as to any other cause,
as was the fact here. The policy required that there should

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

be affirmative evidence attributing the fire to some other
cause. It may not be necessary to hold, in accordance with
the literal interpretation of the condition, that the directors
must be satisfied that there was not some other cause. It
may well be that, if there was proof of some other cause, the
mere fact that the directors were not satisfied by it would not
be enough.
The case then was one where the evidence was undisputed
of the existence of invasion in the very district of country
where the property was situated and the main body of the
invading troops was within three and a half miles of the property, and at the request of the owner of the property a detachment of soldiers was sent to the very place insured. The
defendant's counsel might well have asked the court to rule
that a state of invasion did exist at the place where the property was, but the instruction asked was simply that if the jury
found the fact of invasion, etc., then the plaintiff could not
recover. This the plaintiff in error was entitled to upon the
state of the proof.
Mr. Fritzv. Briesen for defendant in error:
This court has no jurisdiction.
It is evident that Congress did not intend to have cases involving no more than questions of general law go to the Supreme Court of the United States.
Sections 5 and 6 of the Court of Appeals Act have received
the consideration of this court in a number of cases. Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159 U. S. 458; Voorhees v. Noyes Mfg. Co., 151
U. S. 135; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47; Carey v. Houston &
Texas Central Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 115; Rouse v. Hornsby, 161
U. S. 588; Press Pub. Co. v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105; Ex parte
Jones, 164 U. S. 691.
Nor is the case appealable under § 15 of the act relating to
appeals from Territories. As to construction of act of Congress and ascertaining intent of Congress, see United States
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 72; 1 Kent's Com. 162,

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

cited in People v. Draper, 15 N. Y. 532; McLish v. Roff, 141
U. S. 661, 666. Cases on plaintiff in error's brief distinguished.
This case is substantially one brought by a citizen of the
United States against an alien.
It is admitted that a citizen of Porto Rico is not a citizen of
the United States, but on the other hand he is not an alien, so
that although this case would, strictly speaking, not be one
between a citizen of the United States and an alien, it would
on the other hand, not be one between an alien and an alien.
Porto Rico is not a foreign country. De Lima v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 198, 200; Fourteen Diamond Rings v. United States, 183
U. S. 176, 179. An alien means nothing more than a citizen
or subject of a foreign State. Milne v. Huber, 3 McLean, 212;
S. C., 17 Fed. Cas. 405, 406.
Such an anomalous position has not been provided for directly by the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, but as to position
of citizens of Porto Rico, see § 7, Foraker Act.
Congress could never have intended to deprive a United
States citizen of his right to an appeal and in the same breath
confer it upon a citizen of Porto Rico. Lau Ow Bew v. United
States, 144 U. S. 47.
The court did not err in its rulings with reference to the
defence that the transfer of the personal property covered
by the policy from Francisco Martin, the assured, to Martin
Brothers voided the policy.
The law and decisions in the States of the Union on this
point are very conflicting and the question cannot be decided
upon the authority of the decisions of any State or group of
States, but the lex loci contractus, to wit, that of Porto Rico,
should be understood. Bank of the United States v. Donnally,
8 Pet. 361, 372. No Spanish laws or decisions are submitted
by counsel for plaintiff in error, so that no opportunity is given
this court to arrive at a correct conclusion on this important
point. This court cannot decide this question because it cannot be presumed to know the Spanish laws and decisions on
the subject of partnership, fire insurance and construction of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

contracts. Waiving, however, this fatal defect for the present,
the question will be argued as a question of American law.
There was no error in the court below. Ayres v. Hartford Ins.
Co., 17 Iowa, 176; 1 Biddell on Ins. 199; Washington Fire Ins.
Co. v. Kelley, 32 Maryland, 421, 434; Scanlon v. Union Fire
Ins. Co., 4 Biss. 511; Blackwell v. Insurance Co., 48 Ohio St.
533, 540; Cowan v. Iowa State Ins. Co., 40 Iowa, 551, citing
v.
May on Insurance, pp. 463, 381, pp. 303, 278; Hitchcock
Helfenv.
Co.
Ins.
N. W. Ins. Co., 26 N. Y. 68; West Branch
stein, 40 Pa. St. 289; Sherman v. Niagara Fire Ins. Co., 2
Sweeney, 470; Fernandey v. Great Western Ins. Co., 3 Robertson, 457; Hoffman v. Place, 32 N. Y. 405, and see the Scotch
case of Forbes v. Border Counties Fire Office, 11 Court of Sessions, 3d Series, 278.
The refusal of the judge to order the jury to return a separate
verdict was not a reversible error. If the judge was correct
in his ruling on the question of alienation, then no separate
verdict was necessary. Defendant did not request a charge
for a separate verdict until after the jury had returned its
verdict when it was too late. Pacific Express Co. v. Malin,
132 U. S. 531, and see 22 Ency. Pleading & Practice, p. 912;
Texas & P. Ry. Co. v. Padgett, 36 S. W. Rep. 300.
There was no error in the rulings of the court with reference
to the ground of defence that the policy was void for the reason
that the fire occurred during an invasion, riot, etc.
In case a loss by fire occur during the existence of an invasion or riot, the board of directors may call for proof that such
loss was not occasioned by the invasion, and if such proof be
not furnished, or, if furnished, be not reasonably satisfactory,
no action on the policy may be maintained. The condition
was inserted merely for the protection of the stockholders of
the company, in that it placed a check upon the board of
directors by providing that they should not pay certain claims
without first calling for satisfactory proof that the loss was not
due to certain casualties which were not insured against.
Braunstein v. Accidental Death Insurance Co., 1 Best & Smith,

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

783; Baillie v. Assurance Co., 49 La. Ann. 658, 661. See also
La Societe, etc., v. Win. B. Morris & Co., 24 La. Ann. 347;
Monteleone v. Insurance Co., 47 La. Ann. 1563; National Union
v. Thomas, 10 App. D. C. 277. It does not throw the burden
of proof on the insured. German Ins. Co. v. Frederick, 58
Fed. Rep. 144; forfeitures, as this would be, are not favored
in the law. 1 Wood on Fire Insurance (2d ed.), 161, citing
Hoffman v. Etna Insurance Co., 32 N. Y. 405; Reynolds v.
Commerce Ins. Co., 47 N. Y. 597, and many other cases; and
see Insurance Company v. Eggleston, 96 U. S. 572, 577; Insurance Co. v. Norton, 96 U. S. 234.
MR. JusTIcE HARLN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the executor of the insured on a policy
of insurance made by the Royal Insurance Company, a British
corporation, whereby that company insured Francisco Martin
against loss or damage by fire to the amount of seven hundred
pounds on a certain building at Coto Laurel, District of Ponce,
Porto Rico, and for nine hundred pounds on the stock in trade
contained in such building.
The declaration alleged and the fact was not disputed that
during the term of the policy all the property insured was destroyed by fire. The case was tried by the court and a jury
and a verdict was returned in favor of the plaintiff for $7623,
the court refusing to require the jury to find the damages,
separately, as to the building and the stock of goods; and for
the above amount judgment was rendered against the company.
The defendant in error disputes the jurisdiction of.this court
to review the judgment below. If this position be well taken,
the writ of error should be dismissed without considering the
merits of the case. Continental Nat. Bank v. Buford, 191 U. S.
119. We must therefore examine the question of the jurisdiction, which depends upon the scope and effect of various statutory provisions, including those relating to the court established by Congress in Porto Rico. We will look at the statutes
according to the respective dates of their enactment.

OCTOBER TERIMA,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

By section 702 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
it is provided that "the final judgments and decrees of the
Supreme Court of any Territory, except the Territory of Washington, in cases where the value of the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs,

.

.

.

exceeds $1,000, may be reviewed

and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court, upon writ of
error or appeal, in the same manner and under the same regulations as the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit Court.
In the Territory of Washington the value of the matter in dispute must exceed $2,000, exclusive of costs. And any final
judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of said Territory in
any cause [when] the Constitution or a statute or treaty of the
United States is brought in question may be reviewed in like
manner."
This provision was modified by the act of March 3, 1885,
entitled "An act regulating appeals from the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia and the Supreme Courts of the
several Territories;" for by the latter act it was provided:
"§ 1. That no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed
from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United States,
unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars. § 2. That the preceding
section shall not apply to any case wherein is involved the
validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute or an authority
exercised under the United States; but in all such cases an
appeal or writ of error may be brought without regard to the
sum or value in dispute." 23 Stat. 443, c. 355.
Then came the act of March 3, 1891, "to establish Circuit
Courts of Appeals, and to define and regulate in certain cases
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and for other
purposes." 26 Stat. 826. The 5th section of that act prescribes the cases that may be brought directly to this court
from the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts of

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States, while the 6th section provides that the Circuit Courts of Appeals "shall exercise appellate jurisdiction
to review by appeal or by writ of error final decision in the
District Court and the existing Circuit Courts in all cases other
than those provided for in the preceding section of this act,
unless otherwise provided by law"-the judgments or decrees
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals to be final "in all cases in
which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens of
the United States or citizens of different States; also in all
cases arising under the patent laws, under the revenue laws,
and under the criminal laws and in admiralty cases." Further,
by the same section: "In all cases not hereinbefore, in this
[6th] section, made final, there shall be of right an appeal or
writ of error or review of the case by the Supreme Court of the
United States when the matter in controversy shall exceed
one thousand dollars, besides costs." The 13th section of
the act provides: "Appeals and writs of error may be taken
and prosecuted from the decisions of the United States Court
in the Indian Territory to the Supreme Court of the United
States, or to the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Eighth Circuit,
in the same manner and under the same regulations as from
the Circuit or District Courts of the United States, under this
act." And the 15th section is in these words: "That the Circuit Court of Appeal in cases in which the judgments of the
Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final by this act shall have
the same appellate jurisdiction, by writ of error or appeal, to
review the judgments, orders and decrees of the Supreme
Courts of the several Territories, as by this act they may have
to review the judgments, orders and decrees of the District
Court and Circuit Courts; and for that purpose the several
Territories shall, by orders of the Supreme Court, to be made
from time to time, be assigned to particular circuits." 26
Stat. 826.
This brings us to the act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, entitled,
"An act temporarily to provide revenues and a civil govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

ment for Porto Rico, and for other purposes." 31 Stat. 77,
c. 191.
By section 33 of that act it is declared, among other things,
that the judicial power shall be vested in the courts and tribunals of Porto Rico as then established and in operation,
under and by virtue of certain General Orders promulgated
by military authority-the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico and the Marshal
thereof to be appointed by the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and the judges of the district courts by the Governor, by and with the advice and consent of the executive council.
By the 34th section of that act Porto Rico was constituted
a judicial district to be called the District of Porto Rico with
a district judge, a district attorney and marshal to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, and with a district court called the "District
Court of the United States for Porto Rico," which court, in
addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of the
United States, shall have jurisdiction of all cases cognizant in
the Circuit Courts of the United States.
The section of the Porto Rico act upon which the question
of our jurisdiction mainly depends is the 35th, which is in
these words: "That writs of error and appeals from the final
decisions of the supreme court of Porto Rico and the district
court of the United States shall be allowed and may be taken
to the Supreme Court of the United States in the same manner
and under the same regulations and in the same cases as from
the supreme courts of the Territories of the United States; and
such writs of error and appeal shall be allowed in all cases
where the Constitution of the United States, or a treaty thereof,
or an act of Congress is brought in question and the right
claimed thereunder is denied; and the supreme and district
courts of Porto Rico and the respective judges thereof may
grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the same are
grantable by the judges of the district and circuit courts of the

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States. All such proceedings in the Supreme Court
of the United States shall be conducted in the English language." 31 Stat. 77, 85, c. 191.
It thus appears that writs of error and appeals may be
prosecuted directly to this court from the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico, in the same manner, under the
same, regulations, and "in the same cases" as from the Supreme
Courts of the Territories of the United States.
Could a case like the one before us have been brought directly to this court from the Supreme Court of one of the
Territories of the United States? If so, our jurisdiction in this
case cannot be disputed under the Porto Rico act.
The question just stated must be answered in the affirmative,
if we look alone at section 702 of the Revised Statutes, and the
act of March 3, 1885, c. 355; for, it is clear from the express
words of those enactments that this court may review the final
judgment of the Supreme Court of one of the Territories of the
United States in any case, without regard to the sum or value
in dispute, where the Constitution or a statute or treaty is
brought in question, and in every other case whatever where
the sum or value in dispute exceeds $5000, exclusive of costs.
Is this result, so far as the final judgments of the District
Court of the United States for Porto Rico are concerned,
affected by anything in the Circuit Court of Appeals act of
1891? We think not. That act, no doubt, contemplated a
review by the appropriate Circuit Court of Appeals, first, of
the final judgments of the United States court in the Indian
Territory in all cases covered by section 702 of the Revised
Statutes and the act of March 3, 1891; second, of the final
judgments of the Supreme Courts of the other Territories of
the United States in cases the judgments in which, by that
act (§ 6), are made final. No provision is found in the act of
1891 for the review in a Circuit Court of Appeals of the judgment of the Supreme Court of a Territory of the United States
in a case of the class the judgment in which, if rendered in a
Circuit Court of Appeals, is not final. So that the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

of this court to review the judgments of the Supreme Courts
of the several Territories in that class of cases was the same
after as before the passage of that act. Shute v. Keyser, 149
U. S. 649. Clearly this case is not of the class the judgment
in which, if rendered in the Supreme Court of a Territory of
the United States, to use the words of the act of 1891, is reviewable in a Circuit Court of Appeals under that act. It is
not a patent, revenue or criminal case, nor one in which the
jurisdiction of the court below depended entirely upon the
opposite parties to the controversy being aliens and citizens
of the United States or citizens of different States. But it is
one which, if it had been determined by the Supreme Court of
one of such Territories of the United States, could have been
brought here directly, upon writ of error, after as well as before
the passage of the act of 1891. Our conclusion must, therefore, be that the jurisdiction of this court cannot be denied by
reason of any provision in the act of 1891.
This view is strengthened by what we deem the better construction of the Porto Rico act of 1900. That act does not
refer to the Circuit Court of Appeals act of 1891, nor contain
any provision looking to the assignment of Porto Rico to one
of the established Circuits. This tends to show that it was the
intention of the act of 1900 to establish a direct connection
between this court and the United States Court for Porto Rico
in respect of every case which, if determined by the Supreme
Court of a Territory of the United States, could have been
brought here under the statutes in force when the act of
1891 iTas passed. In our opinion, Congress did not intend
that any connection should exist between the United States
Court for Porto Rico and any Circuit Court of Appeals established under the act of 1891.
These views as to the scope and effect of the Porto Rico act
of 1900 are not at all affected by the provisions in the acts relating to the reexamination of the final judgments of the highest
courts of the Indian Territory, Hawaii and Alaska. Indian
Territory, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, § 13; Hawaii, 31 Stat. 141, 158,

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MAITIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

c. 339, § 86; Alaska, 31 Stat. 321, 345, c. 786. Those acts had
exclusive reference to the particular Territories named-each,
upon its face, showing that the final judgments of the courts
of those Territories, at least in certain cases, should be reviewable, primarily, in a designated Circuit Court of Appeals of the
United States. No such provisions are found in the act of
1900, and this court has not assumed to assign Porto Rico to
any Circuit of the United States. The Territories of the
United States, referred to in the 15th section of the act of 1891,
are, in our opinion, those which it was contemplated would be
assigned to some Circuit, and they do not embrace Porto Rico;
and the words in the act of 1900, "in the same manner and
under the same regulations and in the same cases as from the
Supreme Court of a Territory of the United States," refer not
to the act of 1891 but to those general statutes authorizing
this court to review the final judgment of the Supreme Court
of a Territory bf the United States in every case, without regard to the sum or value in dispute, where the Constitution
of the United States or a treaty thereof or an act of Congress
is brought in question and the right claimed thereunder is
denied, and in every other case where the sum or value in
dispute exceeds $5000, exclusive of costs. If Congress had
intended that the judgments of the United States Court for
Porto Rico should, in any class of cases, be reexamined in
some Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States, it would
have so declared by appropriate words. It did not so declare.
For the reasons stated, we hold that our jurisdiction to reexamine it cannot be questioned.
We come now to the merits of the case; our attention being
first directed to the questions arising under the clause of the
policy providing that it shall not cover "loss or damage by fire
happening during the existence of any invasion, foreign enemy,
rebellion, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, military or
usurped power, or martial law within the country or locality
in which the property insured is situated, unless proof be made
to the satisfaction of the directors that such loss or damage
vOL. cxCII-1 1

OCTOBER TELM,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

was not occasioned by or connected with, but occurred from
a cause or causes independent of the existence of such invasion, foreign enemy, rebellion, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, military or usurped power or martial law."
As the words of the policy are those of the company, they
should be taken most strongly against it, and the interpretation should be adopted which is most favorable to the insured,
if such interpretation be not inconsistent with the words used.
National Bank v. Insurance Company, 95 U. S. 673, 678, 679;
Liverpool &c. Ins. Co. v. Kearney, 180 U. S. 132, 136; Texas &
Pacific Railway Co. v. Reiss, 183 U. S. 621, 626. In this view
the above words should be held to mean that the policy covered
loss by fire occurring during the existence of (if not occasioned
by nor was connected with) any invasion, foreign enemy,
rebellion, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, military or
usurped power, or martial law, in the general locality where
the property insured was situated. If the loss so occurred,
then the company was entitled to demand, before being sued,
that proofs be furnished showing that the loss was not occasioned by or connected with, but was from causes independent
of, such invasion, foreign enemy, rebellion, insurrection, riot,
civil commotion, military or usurped power or martial law.
But the company made no demand for proofs on this point.
On the contrary, the formal production of such proofs was, in
effect, waived; for the company assumed that what occurred,
in the locality, at the time of the fire, constituted a riot, which
relieved it from all liability. It, therefore, gave notice by its
agents that as the fire and the destruction of the goods "were
produced by a riot they were not compelled to pay," and that
"the policy would not be paid." A general, absolute refusal
to pay in any event, or a denial by the company of all liability
under its policy, dispensed with such formal proofs as a condition of its liability to be sued, and opened the way for a suit
by the assured in order that the rights of the parties could be
determined by the courts according to the facts as disclosed
by evidence. It was so held by this court in a case of fire

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

insurance, Tayloe v. FireInsurance Company, 9 How. 390, 403;
and the same principle was recognized as applicable in a case
of life insurance. Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co. v. Pendleton, 112 U. S. 696, 709. To the same effect are authorities
cited by text-writers. 2 May on Insurance (3d ed.), § 469;
2 Biddle on Insurance, § 1139; 2 Wood on Fire Insurance (2d
ed.), § 445. Now, whether there was any substantial connection between the fire and military or other disturbance of the
kind specified, existing in the locality where the property was
situated, was a question of fact, and it was properly left to the
jury. The court, referring to the above clause of the policy,
charged the jury: "a fair construction of that condition, in the
opinion of the court, is that in order to excuse this company
from liability in case of loss of property by fire, that invasion
by foreign enemy, rebellion, insurrection, riot, civil commotion,
military or usurped power or martial law, must have been
occurring within the section of the country where this loss
occurred, or within the locality and within such radius of
country where the loss occurred, that damage arose to property by reason of the existence of that rebellion, invasion,
insurrection, civil commotion, military or usurped power, or
martial law. And I further tell you, gentlemen, that if you
believe from the evidence that this destruction of property did
not occur from any of these causes, and occurred from a cause
independent of the existence of any foreign enemy, rebellion,
insurrection, riot, civil commotion, military or usurped power
or martial law, then you should find, so far as this defence was
concerned, for the plaintiff in damages whatever you think
may have been his loss."
While there is some little confusion in this part of the record,
we think that the trial court did not misconstrue the policy,
nor commit any error upon this particular point of which the
plaintiff was entitled to complain. It is to be taken that the
jury found, upon the whole evidence, that the loss was occasioned by causes independent of the existence of any invasion,
foreign enemy, rebellion, insurrection, riot, civil commotion,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

military or usurped power, or martial law. The facts under
this issue having been fairly submitted to the jury, its finding
cannot be disturbed.
An important question remains to be considered. It arises
out of the interest which the assured had in the property at the
time of the fire. The evidence showed that the original policy
wasissuedto Francisco Martin on the twelfth day of March, 1877,
he being at that time the sole owner of the building and of the
goods contained in it. The policy was renewed from year to
year, the last one being dated March 12, 1898, and extending
until March 12, 1899. The fire occurred in August, 1898,
the assured being then alive. He did not die until October,
1899. Now, at the time of the fire, the goods insured had, by
act of the assured, become, in their entirety; the property of
Martin Brothers, a firm or society composed of two sons of the
assured as active partners, and of himself as silent partner.
The father turned over the business to the control and management of the two sons, and to them surrendered the custody of
the goods constituting the stock in trade. At what date the
sons acquired their interests in the goods and in the business
does not distinctly appear. But it was before the fire; and of
the change whereby the father ceased to be the sole owner of
the goods described in the renewal policy and whereby also
they became the property of the firm of Martin Brothers, no
notice whatever was given to the company prior to the fire.
The question is whether such change in the ownership of the
goods insured-no change occurring in the ownership of the
building-discharged the company from all liability on the
policy under that clause providing that the policy should cease
"to be in force as to any property hereby insured which shall
by
pass from the insured to any other person otherwise than
the
to
given
be
due operation of law, unless notice thereof
company, and the subsistence of the insurance in favor of such
other person be declared by a memorandum endorsed hereon
by or on behalf of the company."
Upon the question whether an insurance policy, of the gen-

ROYAL INSURANCHE CO. r. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eral class to which the one in suit belongs, continues in force
after a sale or transfer by the assured of his interest in the
property insured, the adjudged cases are by no means in accord, and it will serve no useful purpose to make an extended
review of them and show wherein they differ. It will be found
upon examination that each policy contained language peculiar
to itself, and upon that language the particular case turned.
Of course, in every case, the fundamental inquiry must be as
to the intention of the parties, to be gathered from the words
of the policy; always, however, interpreting the policy most
favorably for the insured,- where- it is reasonably susceptible
of two constructions.
On the face of the policy in suit it appears that the buildings
and the goods contained in them were insured separately,
seven hundred pounds on the building and nine hundred pounds
on the stock in trade. One construction of the policy is that
if either the building or the stock in trade should pass from the
assured to another person, then the policy should cease as to
all the property insured. But another construction, the one
most favorable to the assured, which is not unreasonable, and
which is not forbidden by the words used, is that as the building and the stock in trade were separately insured the policy
should cease to be in force only as to the particular property
insured that passed from the assured without notice to the
company. The latter is the better construction, and we hold
that it is to be considered as if the building was covered by one
policy and the goods by another. Whatever may have been
the extent of the interest acquired by the firm of Martin Brothers in the goods, no interest in the building passed to them.
The building remained, in its entirety, the sole property of
the assured, up to the time of the fire, and the policy may
reasonably be and therefore ought to be so construed as not
to preclude a recovery in respect of its destruction by fire.
But in respect of the goods in question, the case depends
upon other considerations. When the goods were insured
they were in their entirety the sole property of Francisco

OCTOBER TERiMf, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

Martin, the assured. He was the legal owner of the whole of
them. They were in his custody, and subject to his exclusive
control. But at the time of their destruction by fire the
ownership of the goods, in their entirety, had, by transfer from
the assured, passed to Martin Brothers, and became, without
notice to the company, subject to the exclusive control, in
their entirety, of that firm. Such a change of ownership and
control, it must be held, avoided the policy, unless it was kept
alive by the mere fact that the assured although taking no
active part in the business of the firm was yet a silent partner,
and as such had some interest in the insured property. But
that fact cannot be given the weight suggested without ignoring altogether the reasons which, it must be assumed, induced
the company to incorporate into its policy the provision that
if any property insured passed from the assured to another
person without notice to the company, the policy should cease
to be in force. It may well be that an insurance company
would be willing to insure property owned by a particular
person of whose character and habits its agent had knowledge
or information, but unwilling to insure the same property if
owned by that person in connection with others. Prudence
requires that a company, before insuring against fire, should be
informed as to the actual ownership of the property proposed
to be insured, and know who, in virtue of such ownership, will
be entitled to its custody and to control it during the term of
the policy. The provision that the policy in this case should
cease to be in force from the moment the insured property
passed from the assured to others without notice to the company implied not only that the company relied upon the
integrity and watchfulness of the assured, but that if he looked
to the company for indemnity against loss by fire he must take
care not to allow the property to "pass" from him to others,
without notice to the insurer. The assured, without notice to
the company, did pass the goods in question to a firm, each
member of which thereby acquired an interest in the whole of
the goods transferred. The ownership of the firm was in law

ROYAL INSURANCE CO. v. MARTIN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and in fact distinct from the original sole ownership of the
assured. Practically, for all purposes of guarding the goods
insured against destruction by fire, they passed to the active
partners who were strangers to the property at the date of the
policy-the assured, as a silent partner, retaining no interest
in any particular part of the goods, and being under no obligation as between himself and 'the active partners, to care for
the safety of the property. Its safety, after the transfer,
depended altogether upon the watchfulness of the active partners in whose possession the goods were up to the fire. It
only remained, for the original sole owner, after passing the
goods in their entirety to the firm of Martin Brothers, in which
he was a silent partner, to receive such profits as accrued to
him from their use in the business as conducted by the active
partners.
We are of opinion that the case was not tried in accordance
-with a sound construction of the terms of the policy relating
to the goods insured. The court proceeded upon the ground
that there was no evidence of such alienation or change of
ownership as avoided the policy in respect of the goods. In
this error was committed, and a new trial must be had in conformity with the views we have herein expressed.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the cause
is remanded with directions to set aside the judgment and
grant a new trial.
Reversed.

