OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

ROGERS v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 407. Submitted January 4, 1904.-Decided January 18, 1904.
A motion to quash an indictment for murder was made on the ground that
all colored men had been excluded from the grand jury solely because of
their race and color, and because of a certain provision of the state constitution alleged to deny them the franchise in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. These provisions were set out. The motion, about two
octavo pages in length, was stricken from the files by the state court on
the ground of prolixity, members of the grand jury not having to have
the qualifications of electors.
Held, on error, that the reference of the motion to the constitutional requirements concerning electors as one of the motives for the exclusion of the
blacks did not warrant such action as would prevent the court from passing on constitutional rights which it was the object of the motion to
assert, and that the exclusion of blacks from the grand jury as alleged
was contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Wilford H. Smith for plaintiff in error:
The motion to quash the indictment, calling the attention
of the court to the denial of rights claimed under the Federal
Constitution, should not have been struck from the files without giving the plaintiff in error an opportunity to prove the
allegations therein contained; and this action of the trial court
and its refusal to permit the introduction of any evidence in
support of said motion, was error. Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S.
442. The allegation of the denial of rights under the Fifteenth
Amendment strengthened rather than weakened the motion
to quash the indictment, and required investigation by the
trial court.
The state court was in error in holding that because the
statutes of Alabama do not require that jurors shall be qualified

ROGERS v. ALABAMA.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

electors that the second ground of the motion to quash was
unavailing. It is utterly immaterial what the letter of the law
is in this regard, if in fact and in truth those charged with its
administration so enforced the law, it was the same as if it had
been written in the statutes. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356.
The motion to quash the indictment was not prolix, but
contained essential averments; this court will not be controlled
by the decision of the state court as to what form of language
shall be used in pleading rights claimed under the Federal
Constitution.
The action of the trial court in overruling the several motions of the plaintiff in error to quash the panel of petit jurors
and refusing to allow the introduction of any evidence in support of the same was such an error as called for reversal in the
Supreme Court of Alabama. Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442;
Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S' 370; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162
U. S. 565.
Admitting for the sake of the argument that a motion to
quash the panel of petit jurors on the ground of the denial
of rights claimed under the Federal Constitution stands on
the same footing with a motion to quash the venire for some
trivial irregularity in its drawing, service, or return, the
motion did not come too late, because it was made when the
first juror was called and sworn to answer questions as to his
qualifications, prior to his empanelment to serve as a juror,
after said juror had been accepted by the solicitor for the State
and tendered the defendant. Peters v. The State, 100 Alabama,
12; Ryan v. The State, 100 Alabama, 108; Thomas v. The State,
94 Alabama, 75.
A motion to quash the panel of petit jurors on the ground
of the denial of rights claimed under the Federal Constitution
stands on higher and different grounds from a motion to quash
the venire for matters of form or irregularity contemplated in
the Alabama decisions, and that the motion in this case did
not come too late.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

Plaintiff in error offered to introduce the testimony showing
that jurors were selected from the registration lists, and that
no negroes were selected to serve; that for ten years no negroes
were drawn on any jury in that court; that the negroes are in
the majority in that county, many of whom are qualified for
jury service; that, out of five thousand qualified electors of the
negro race in the county, only forty-seven were on the registration lists because they had been excluded from the lists and
refused registration under the suffrage provisions of the Constitution of 1901, on account of their race and color, while all
white men applying for registration were admitted and entered
on such lists; and that, although qualified for jury service, all
negroes were excluded from such service on account of their
race and color and-because not qualified electors enrolled on
fhe registration lists. Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442; Williams
v. Mississippi,170 U.S.213; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 1181U. S. 356.
The record shows a manifest denial of rights under the
Federal Constitution by the authorities of the State, in the
face of recent decisions of this court.
Mr. Massey Wilson, Attorney General of the State of Alabama, for defendant in error:
The Supreme Court of Alabama decided that the motion
to quash the venire of petit jurors came too late; that it should
have been made before the formation of the petit jury had
begun; and that not having been made until after the State
had been required to pass upon a juror, and had selected such
juror, the motion should not have been entertained, regardless of its merits. 12 Ency. P1. & Pr. 424; Thomas v. State, 94
Alabama, 74; Ryan v. State, 100 Alabama, 105, 188, distinguished.
The motion of the plaintiff in error was in effect a challenge
to the array, which should have been made before the selection
of the jury was entered upon. 12 Ency. P1. & Pr. 316; 1
Thompson on Trials, ยง 113; Gardinerv. People, 6 Park. Cr.
Rep. (N. Y. Supreme Ct.) 155, 199.

ROGERS
192 U. S.

v.

ALABAMA.

Opinion of the Court.

The question raised on the motion to quash the indictment
was disposed of by the Supreme Court of Alabama on the
ground of the prolixity of the pleading by which it was presented to the lower court. Section 3286 of the Code of Alabama; Cotton v. Ward, 45 Alabama, 359; Davis v. Louisville
& Nashville Railroad Co., 108 Alabama, 660; 20 Ency. P1. &
Pr. 44, 45; 21 Ency. P1. & Pr. 226.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
brought on the ground that the plaintiff in error, one Rogers,
has been denied the equal protection of the laws guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. Rogers was indicted for murder and in due
time filed a motion to quash the indictment because the jury
commissioners appointed to select the grand jury excluded
from the list of persons to serve as grand jurors all colored
persons, although largely in the majority of the population of
the county, and although otherwise qualified to serve as grand
jurors, solely on the ground of their race and color and of their
having been disfranchised and deprived of all rights as electors
in the State of Alabama by the provisions of the new constitution of Alabama. The motion alleged that the grand jury was
composed exclusively of persons of the white race, and concluded with a verification. To show the reality of the second
reason alleged for the exclusion of blacks from the grand jury
list the motion, as a preliminary, alleged that the sections of
the new constitution which were before this court in Giles v.
Harris, 189 U. S. 475, were adopted for the purpose and had
the effect of disfranchising all the blacks on account of their
race and color and previous condition of servitude. On motion
of the State this motion to quash was stricken from the files.
Rogers excepted, but his exceptions were overruled by the
Supreme Court of the State, seemingly on the ground that the
prolixity of the motion was sfifficient to justify the action of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the court below. The Civil Code of Alabama provides by
ยง 3286, "if any pleading is unnecessarily prolix, irrelevant, or
frivolous, it may be stricken out at the costs of th6 party so
pleading, on motion of the adverse party."
We follow the construction impliedly adopted by the Supreme Court of Alabama, and assume that this section was
applicable to the motion. We also assume, as said by the
court, that the qualifications of the grand jurors are not in law
dependent upon the qualifications of electors, and that any
invalidity of the conditions attached to the suffrage could not
of itself affect the validity of the indictment. But in our
opinion that was not the allegation. The allegation was that
the conditions said to be invalid worked as a reason and consideration in the minds of the commissioners for excluding
blacks from the list. It may be that the allegation was superfluous and would have been hard to prove, but it was not
irrelevant, for it stated motives for the exclusion which, however mistaken, if proved tended to show that the blacks were
excluded on account of their race, as part of a scheme to keep
them from having any part in the administration of the government or of the law. The whole motion takes two pages of
the printed record, of the ordinary octavo size. A motion of
that length, made for the sole purpose of setting up a constitutional right and distinctly claiming it, cannot be withdrawn
for prolixity from the consideration of this court, under the
color of local practice, because it contains a statement of matter
which perhaps it would have been better to omit but which
is relevant to the principal fact averred.
It is a necessary and well settled rule that the exercise of
jurisdiction by this court to protect constitutional rights cannot be declined when it is plain that the fair result of a decision
is to deny the rights. It is well known that this court will
decide for itself whether a contract was made as well as whether
the obligation of the contract has been impaired. Jefferson
Branch Bank v. Scelly, 1 Black,' 436, 443. But that is merely
an illustration of a more general rule. On the same ground

ROGERS v. ALABAMA.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there can be no doubt that if full faith and credit were denied
to a judgment rendered in another State upon a suggestion of
want of jurisdiction, without evidence to warrant the finding,
this court would enforce the constitutional requirement. See
German Savings and Loan Society v. Dormitzer,ante, p. 125. In
Chapmanv. Goodnow, 123 U. S.540, 547, 548, where the parties
sought to avoid the obligation of a former decree by new
matter, this court said that the effect of what was done was
not a Federal question, but proceeded to inquire in terms
whether that ground of decision was the real one, or whether
it was set up as an evasion and merely to give color to a refusal to allow the bar of the decree. We are of opinion that
the Federal question is raised by the record and is properly
before us. That question is disposed of by Carter v. Texas,
177 U. S. 442, and it was error not to apply that decision.
The result of that and the earlier cases may be summed up
in the following words of the judgment delivered by Mr. Justice Gray: "Whenever by any action of a State, whether
through its legislature, through its courts, or through its executive or administrative officers, all persons of the African
race are excluded, solely because of their race or color, from
serving as grand jurors in the criminal prosecution of a person
of the African race, the equal protection of the laws is denied
to him, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. Strauder v. West Virginia,
100 U. S.303; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 397; Gibson v.
Mississippi, 162 U. S.565." Our judgment upon this point
makes it unnecessary to consider a motion to quash the panel
of the petit jury for similar reasons, which was disposed of as
having been made too late.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded for further proceedings
I
not inconsistent herewith.

