OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 147. Argued January 28, 1904.-Decided February 23,1904.
Although a liberal construction of a statute may be proper and desirable,
yet the fair meaning of the language used must not be unduly stretched
for the purpose of reaching any particular case which, while it might
appeal to the court, would plainly be beyond the limitations contained
in the statute.
Without defining the exact distance within which lands must lie in order to
be "adjacent" to a railroad passing through territory of the United
States, public lands lying in Idaho, more than twenty miles from a two
hundred foot right of way of a railroad, not exceeding forty miles in length,
are not "adjacent public lands" within the meaning of the act of March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 482, permitting railroad companies to cut timber therefrom for the construction of their roads.
A railroad company cutting timber for the construction of its road on public
lands not adjacent thereto is liable to the United States for the value
thereof and where there is no intention to violate any law or do a wrongful act, the measure of damages is the value of the timber at the time when,
and at the place where, it was cut and not at the place of its delivery.
Wooden-ware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432, and Pine River Loggi-ng
Co. v. United States, 186 U. S. 279, distinguished.

THIS action was brought by the United States against the
railroad company to recover damages for the unlawful cutting
down and conversion by the company, in the year 1899, of
certain timber on the public lands belonging to the United
States in the State of Idaho. The value of the timber thus
cut was, as alleged, over $20,000. The trial was had in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Idaho,
Southern Division, and resulted in a judgment dismissing the
complaint, which was affirmed, upon appeal, by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit, 114 Fed. Rep. 722, and the
government has appealed to this court.
The defendant answered the complaint and denied its averments as to unlawfully entering upon the lands and cutting

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

525

Statement of the Case.

the timber. As a further and separate defence the defendant
averred that it was duly incorporated on May 18, 1899, under
and pursuant to the laws of the State of Idaho, for the purpose
of constructing and operating a railroad from the town of
Idaho Falls in Bingham County, Idaho, to St. Anthony in
Fremont County, in that State, a distance of approximately
forty miles. On or about July 7, 1899, the board of directors
duly adopted the route for the railway, which was practically
a straight line between the town of Idaho Falls and the town
of St. Anthony, and passed through and over the public lands
of the United States. The defendant fully performed all things
required by railroad companies by the act of Congress granting
to railroads the right of way through the public lands of the
United States, approved March 3, 1875, and it thereby became
entitled to the benefit of the privileges therein granted to railroad companies. For the purpose of procuring the necessary
material with which to construct its railroad, the defendant,
through its authorized agents, entered upon the lands described in the complaint, which were, as defendant alleged,
adjacent to the line of the railroad, for the purpose of procuring
ties and timbers for the construction of the road, and did during
the summer and fall of 1899 cut and remove timber growing
on the lands, not to exceed 1,682,975 feet; that the ties and
timbers were cut from the nearest public lands to said line of
road, and were, as the defendant averred, adjacent thereto;
that all of the ties and timbers were necessary for the original
construction of the road, and were used for that purpose,
and the defendant cut and removed the timber in good faith,
with no intention of violating any law or committing any trespass, but believing that it had the right to enter upon the
lands and take the timber.
For the purpose of the trial there was an agreed statement
of facts made, and therein it was stated that the cutting of the
timber was upon the lands of the government and the amount
thereof was correctly stated in the answer, and its value upon
delivery to the defendant was as alleged in the complaint.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

The defendant did not act under any mistake of fact in
regard to the status of the timber and the lands upon which
it grew, and did what was done, believing it had the legal right
so to do. It is not disputed that the lands were unoccupied,
unentered public lands of the United States.
Upon the question whether the lands where the timber was
cut were or were not adjacent, it was agreed:
"That said lands from the place where said timber was cut
to the line of the road were and are the following distances,
namely: from 17 to 23 miles by air line; from 20 miles to 25
miles by wagon road, and from 22 to 26 miles following the
sinuosities of the river upon which said timber was in part
conveyed. By far the largest part of the timber was driven
or rafted down said river from said lands to said railroad, the
other part being hauled by wagon. The wagon road referred
to and so used is an ordinarily good road and involves no unusual grades, and said timber could with reasonable profit be
hauled by wagon from the place where it was cut to said railroad, where it was used for ties and in the construction of
bridges. It is further agreed that there were no other timber
lands or suitable timber upon either side of said railroad as
near as were the land and timber in question, and that said
lands are near enough and so located with reference to said
railroad as to be directly and materially benefited thereby."
The statute under which the cutting is justified is section 1
of "An act granting to railroads the right of way through the
public lands of the United States," approved March 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 482; 2 Comp. Stat. 1658, and is set forth in the margin
'Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That the right of way through the public
lands of the United States is hereby granted to any railroad company duly
organized under the laws of any State or Territory, except the District of
Columbia, or by the Congress of the United States, which shall have filed
with the Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and
due proofs of its organization under the same, to the extent of one hundred
feet on each side of the central line of said road; also the right to take, from
the public lands adjacent to the line of said road, material, earth, stone, and
timber necessary for the construction of said railroad; also ground adjacent

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

527

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for the United States:
The importance of this case to the Government cannot be
measured by the value of the timber which is involved in this
suit. I do not exaggerate when I say that timber worth
millions of dollars is the subject of suits now pending or about
to be instituted by the Government in which the sole question
at issue is the proper meaning of the word adjacent as used in
this and similar acts of Congress. The Government has from
the first contended that the word adjacent as used in this law
has reference to a comparatively narrow belt of public land
situated on either side of the railroad company's right of way.
In view of litigation now pending, and the great material
interests involved, the Government feels especially called upon
at this time to earnestly maintain that the word adjacent ought
not to be construed as applicable to public lands more than
two miles distant from a railroad company's right of way.
The Government's contention is that under the facts in this
case the public lands from which the timber was cut and removed by the Railroad Company and its agents, and used by
it in the construction of its line of road, were not adjacent lands
within the meaning of said act of Congress.
As to the ordinary meaning of the word "adjacent," as defined by lexicographers, it is manifest that the word is a relative
term and that in order to ascertain its true meaning in any
given case resort must be had to the context and the character
of the objects with reference to which the word is used. See
Century Dictionary and Cyclopedia; Crabbe's English Synonyms; Bouvier's Law Dict.; Black's Law Dict.; Anderson's
Dict. of Law. The word has been defined in cases in the
Federal courts in United States v. Den. & R. G. R. R. Co., 31
Fed. Rep. 886; United States v. Chapin, 31 Fed. Rep. 890;
In re Den. & R. G. R. R. Co., 8 Land Dec. 41. But see In re
Kootenai Valley R. R. Co., 28 Land Dec. 439; Den. & R. G. R.
to such right of way for station-buildings, depots, machine shops, sidetracks,
turnouts, and water stations, not to exceed in amount twenty acres for each
pation, to .hextent of one station for each ten miles of its road.

OC'1OBER. TERM, 1903.
Argtment for the United States.

192 U. S.

R. Co. v. United States, 34 Fed. Rep. 838; United States v.
Den. & R. G. R. R. Co., 150 U. S. 1; United States v. Linde, 47
Fed. Rep. 297; United States v. Stone, 64 Fed. Rep. 667; S. C.,
sub nom. Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178; Bacheldor v.
United States, 83 Fed. Rep. 986.

It will be seen that this court has, in effect, held that lands
situated 50 to 100 miles distant from a railroad company's
right of way are not adjacent lands within the meaning of the
law, while on the other hand the Circuit Courts of Appeal for
the Eighth and Ninth Circuits have held that lands lying at
a distance of 17 to 25 miles from a railroad company's right of
way are adjacent. This case clearly presents to this court for
the first time the question whether these decisions are correct,
and whether it can be said as a matter of law or fact that
under even the most liberal interpretation of this statute,
lands lying at so great a distance from a railroad company's
right of way can be held to be adjacent lands within the meaning of the act.
The Government maintains that inasmuch as the precise
meaning of this term as used in the statute is uncertain, it was
the duty of the Land Department, having in charge the public
lands, to place a reasonable interpretation upon the statute,
and that this was done in 1887 by Secretary Vilas, when he
held that two miles on either side of the railroad company's
right of way embraced what should be understood as adjacent lands within the meaning of -this law; such an interpretation is reasonable and sufficient to afford the companies
all the rights and privileges proper under the act.
Definitions of "adjacent" in state courts. Henderson v.
Long, 1 Cook (Tenn.), 128; Henderson v. Long, 11 Fed. Cas.
1084, No. 6354; New York v. Hartford, 16 Hun (N. Y.), 380;
Miller v. Cabell, 81 Kentucky, 184; Camphill Borough, 142 Pa.
St. 517; In re Municipality for Opening Roffignac Street, 7
La. Ann. 76; People v. Schermerhorn, 19 Barb. (N. Y.) 556;
People v. Land Office Commissioner, 135 N. Y. 447; Saunders
v. N. Y. Central R. R. Co., 135 N. Y. 613; Clapton v. Taylor,

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

529

Argument for Defendant in Error.

49 Mo. App. 118; Carrierv. Schoharie Turnpike Co., 18 Johns.
(N. Y.) 57; Continental Imp. Co. v. Phelps, 47 Michigan, 300;
Brooklyn R. R. Co. v. Brooklyn, 18 N. Y. Supp. 876; Kent v.
Perkins, 36 Ohio St. 639.
In English cases. Kimberly Water Works v. De Beers Consolidated Mines, 66 L. J. P. C. 108; Birmingham v. Allen, 46
L. J. C. H. 673; Darley Main Co. v. Mitchell, 11 App. Cas. 142;
Rex v. Hodgkins, M. & H. 341; Regina v. Brown, 17 Q. B. 83 .
While these cases are not of much assistance in ascertaining the precise meaning of the word adjacent, as used in the
act of Congress of March 3, 1875, they nevertheless show
that the word adjacent, when used in any particular context,
must receive a reasonable construction and one which will
protect the interests of all parties concerned. It does not
mean that a license is thus given to put such a construction
upon the word as would embrace matters not reasonably contemplated by the parties. And while it is a term which is
susceptible of different constructions and may, under the particular facts in each case, convey to different minds different
ideas as to distance, the idea conveyed must in every instance
be that of "proximity" or "nearness," that which is far distant
or remote being necessarily excluded.
Mr. Parley L. Williams for defendant in error:
The act should be liberally construed. United States v.
Chaplin, 31 Fed. Rep. 890; United States v. Den. & R. G. R. R.
Co., 150 U. S. 1. As to definition of "adjacent," see authorities and cases cited on the Government's brief, and also
Worcester's Diet; Webster's Internat. Dict.; Standard Dict.;
Encyclopedic Diet.; United States v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 29
Alb. Law J. 24; 1 Ency. Law (2d ed.), 633.
If the Government is to recover it is entitled to "stumpage"
only. See authorities cited in Wooden Ware Co. v. United
States, 106 U. S. 432. As to wilfulness and legal malice which
did not exist in this case, see Bowers v. State, 24 Tex. App. 542;
Railroad Co. v. Nash (Ind.), 24 N. E. Rep. 884; State v. Preston,
voL. cxciI-3d:

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

34 Wisconsin, 682, and cases cited; Clark v. Holdridge, 43
N. Y. Supp. 115; S. C., 12 App. Div. 613; Winchester v. Craig,
33 Michigan, 205; Forsyth v. Wells, 41 Pa. St. 291; Baker v.
Drake, 53 N. Y. 211; Markham v. Jaudon, 41 N. Y. 235; Heard
v. James, 49 Mississippi, 236; Gaskins v. Davis (N. Car.), 25
L. R. A. 813; United States v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 67 Fed. Rep.
503, 890; Sedgwick on Damages (5th ed.), 503.
MR. JusTcIci PECKHAm,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The important question in'this case is as to the meaning of
the term "adjacent" when used in the first section of the
statute of 1875. The act is a general one, and is therefore
applicable to no particular road, except as the facts in each
case may bring the road within its language. It grants the
right of way through the public lands in the United States
upon conditions named, to the extent of 100 feet on each side
of the central line of the road. The lands from which materials for the construction of the railroad may be taken must
be adjacent to this piece of land but two hundred feet wide.
The term is a somewhat relative and uncertain one, and in one
aspect the case may be determined with at least some reference
to the size of the strip or right of way granted, and to which the
land must be adjacent. It may also be remembered that the
whole length of the road is but forty miles. In some views of
the case the narrowness and shortness of the line might have
some effect upon the question of the distance to which the
word adjacent might carry one in the search for timber. As
the word is frequently uncertain and relative as to its meaning,
it might naturally perhaps be regarded as more extended when
used with reference to a large object than with reference to a
comparatively small one. In other words, it must be defined
with reference to the context, at least to some extent.
We are not disposed to unduly limit the meaning of the word
as used in the statute so as to exclude lands which might other-

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

531

Opinion of the Court.

wise fairly be regarded as within its purpose and thereby defeat
the intent of Congress. The act is not to be construed in an
unnecessarily narrow manner, nor at the same time should the
construction of its language be extraordinarily enlarged in
order to attain some special and particular end. In United
States v. Denver &c. Railway, 150 U. S. 1, another question
arose under this same section, and the construction of the act
in that regard was certainly as liberal as its language would
warrant. It was there held that a railroad company had the
right to cut and take the timber or material from public lands
adjacent to the line of the road and use the same on portions
of its line remote from the place from which it was taken.
In speaking of the proper construction of the act, it was said
by Mr. Justice Jackson, for the court:
"It is undoubtedly, as urged by the plaintiffs in error, the
well-settled rule of this court that public grants are construed
strictly against the grantees, but they are not to be so construed as to defeat the intent of the legislature, or to withhold
what is given either expressly or by necessary or fair implication. In Winona & St. Peter Railroad v. Barney, 113 U. S.
618, 625, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, thus states
the rule upon this subject: 'The acts making the grants
are to receive such a construction as will carry out the intent
of Congress, however difficult it might be to give full effect to
the language used if the grants were by instruments of private
conveyance. To ascertain that intent we must look to the
condition of the country when the acts were passed, as well
as to the purposes declared on their face, and read all parts
of them together.'
"Looking to the condition of the country, and the purposes
intended to be accomplished by the act, this language of the
court furnishes the proper rule of construction of the act of
1875. When an act, operating as a general law, and manifesting clearly the intention of Congress to secure public advantages, or to subserve the public interests and welfare by
means of benefits more or less valuable, offers to individuals

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

or to corporations as an inducement to undertake and accomplish great and expensive enterprises or works of a quasi public
character in or through an immense and undeveloped public
domain, such legislation stands upon a somewhat different footing from merely a private grant, and should receive at the
hands of the court a more liberal construction in favor of the
purposes for which it was enacted. Bradley v. New York &
New Haven Railroad, 21 Connecticut, 294; Pierce on Railroads,
491.
"This is the rule, we think, properly applicable to the construction of the act of 1875, rather than the more strict rule of
construction adopted in the case of purely private grants; and
in view of this character of the act, we are of opinion that the
benefits intended for the construction of the railroad, in permitting the use of timber or other material, should be extended
to and include the structures mentioned in the act as a part of
such railroad."
It was also said that the railroad should be treated "as an
entirety, in the construction of which it was the purpose of
Congress to aid by conferring upon any railway company,
entitled to the benefits of the act, the right to take timber
necessary for such construction from the public lands adjacent
to the line of the road. This intention would be narrowed, if
not defeated, if it were held that the timber, which the railway
company had the right to take for use in the construction of
its line, could be rightfully used only upon such portions of
the line as might be contiguous to the place from which the
timber was taken. If Congress had intended to impose any
such restriction upon the use of timber or other material taken
from adjacent public lands, it should have been so expressed.
No rule of interpretation requires this court to so construe the
act as to confine the use of timber that may be taken from a
proper place for the purpose of construction to any particular
or defined portion of the railroad. To do this would require
the court to read into the statute the same language, as to the
place of use, which is found in the statute as to the place of

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

533

Opinion of the Court.

taking. In other words, it would require the court to interpolate into the statute the provision that the place at which
the timber shall be used shall be 'contiguous, adjoining or adjacent' to the place from which it is taken. The place of use
is not, by the language of the statute, qualified, restricted or
defined, except to the extent of the construction of the railroad
as such, and it is not to be inferred from the restriction or limitation imposed as the place from which it may be rightfully
taken that it is to be used only adjacent to such place."
In the above case it was admitted that the lands from which
the timber was taken were adjacent to the line of the road
within the meaning of the statute.
It is also seen in the extract from the opinion that the word
"adjacent" is therein used in connection with the words
"contiguous" and "adjoining," so as to give an impression
that it is almost, though not entirely, synonymous with those
words. And we think this is true. "Contiguous, lying close
at hand, near," is the meaning given it by the lexicographers.
It need not be adjoining or actually contiguous, but it must be,
as said, near or close at hand.
Although a liberal construction of the statute may be proper
and desirable, yet the fair meaning of the language used must
not be unduly stretched for the purpose of reaching any particular case which, while it might appeal to the court, would
yet pretty plainly be beyond the limitation contained in the
statute. While not to be construed so as to defeat the intent
of the legislature, or to withhold what is given either expressly
or by fair implication, it is surely improper to so extend the
ordinary and usual meaning of the word as to permit the railroad company to enter upon any land of the government, as
being adjacent, simply because the road wants the timber.
The statute was not intended to furnish a general license to
the company to enter upon any public land and to range to
any extent thereon for timber for its road. In all cases it
must be adjacent.
In the lower Federal courts there have been some cases in

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

which the question of the proper construction of this section
of the act of Congress received attention. In United States v.
Denver & Rio Grande Company, 31 Fed. Rep. 886, that land
was regarded as adjacent which could be reached by ordinary
transportation by wagons. The parties in that case agreed
that the timber was cut from lands adjacent to the line of
railway, and the question was whether timber thus cut could be
taken from lands adjacent to the line of road and used on any
part of the line. But the meaning of the word was referred
to in the opinion, and it was stated that it depended very much
upon the context and the subject matter to which it should
be applied for its proper effect; that with reference to the lands
which might be taken for stations, sidetracks, etc., the word
"adjacent " was used in the same sense of "contiguous" or
"adjoining," while with reference to material for building the
road the word should have the larger 'significance of nearness
without actual contact. It was said to be unreasonable to
limit the meaning of the word to the government subdivisions
lying next to the right of way, and it was said that the meaning
of the term "adjacent" probably included the right to take
timber from public lands within ordinary transportation by
wagon. This meaning was arrived at because the company
could thus avail itself of all timber which could be so transported with a profit to the company, while excluding other
lands from which transportation with profit could not be thus
effected. We are not satisfied of the correctness of this construction or of its reasonableness. Lands might in this way
be found adjacent which were fifty or a hundred or more miles
away, and which could not be regarded as adjacent within any
meaning of that word heretofore given, and could only be said
to be adjacent in order to serve an exigency and to allow a
railroad to procure timber gratuitously from the government.
The purpose may, perhaps, be good, but the meaning cannot
be stretched too far, even to accomplish a possibly desirable end.
Again, in United States v. Chaplin, 31 Fed. Rep. 890, it was
held, in the Circuit Court, District of Oregon, that land was

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

535

Opinion of the Court.

adjacent to the line of road within the purpose and intent of
the act when, by reason of its proximity thereto, it is directly
and materially benefited by the construction of such road.
The court said in that case:
"What is'adjacent' land, within the meaning of the statute,
must depend on the circumstances of each particular case.
Where the 'adjacent' ends and the non-adjacent begins may
be difficult to determine. On the theory that the material is
taken on account of the benefit resulting to the land from the
construction of the road, my impression is that the term
'adjacent' ought not to be construed to include any land save
such as by its proximity to the line of the road is directly and
materially benefited by its construction."
We fail to see the correctness of this rule. Lands hundreds
of miles distant might be directly and materially benefited by
the construction of a railroad, and yet be far beyond the utmost
extent heretofore supposed to'be included by the word adjacent.
To give this extended meaning to the word is, as it seems to us,
merely to say that Congress might have included lands for that
reason if it had so chosen, and, therefore, it is well enough to
enlarge the ordinary meaning of the word to accomplish a
purpose not plainly stated, but only guessed at.
In Denver &c. Railroad v. United States, 34 Fed Rep. 838,
while the question as to what were adjacent lands was not in
issue, as the fourth paragraph in the agreed statement of facts
stipulated that the lands from which the timber was cut were
adjacent to the line of railway, yet Mr. Justice Brewer, then
Circuit Judge, in his opinion said that he did not agree with
the idea that the proximity of the lands was immaterial, or
that Congress intended to grant anything like a general right
to take timber from public lands where it was most convenient.
He said that while the grant was limited to adjacent lands, he
did not appreciate the logic which concludes that if there be
no timber on adjacent lands, the grant reaches out and justifies
taking the timber from distant lands fifty or a hundred miles
away. The real question in the case was whether timber taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

from land which was adjacent could be taken to any portion
of the road, no matter how distant from the place of cutting.
As it was agreed the timber taken was adjacent, it does not
appear how far from the line of the road it was cut. The Circult Judge, overruling in this respect the District Judge, held
the timber could be used all along the line of the road. This
isthe same view subsequently taken by this court in 150
U. S. supra.
In Bacheldor v. United States, 83 Fed. Rep. 986, it was held
by the Circuit Court of Appeals that under the act of June 8,
1872, 17 Stat. 339, which uses language similar to the section
in question, the cutting of timber 25 miles from the road was
not, as matter of law, unlawful. The question whether the
lands were adjacent was held to be a mixed question of law
and fact, and the test of illegality was whether the timber was
within reasonable hauling distance by wagons. The judgment of the court below, 48 Pac. Rep. 310, was therefore
reversed.
In Stone v. United States, 64 Fed. Rep. 667, it was held that
the act in question did not authorize the taking of timber for
the construction of a road from public lands, which were
50 miles distant from the end of the road. That case was
affirmed in this court. 167 U. S. 178. The trial court had
charged the jury that, under the act of 1875, the term "adjacent lands" means lands in proximity, contiguous to, or
near to the road, and that lands so far distant from the railroad
as lands in Kootenai County, Idaho, where it is claimed that
the railroad ties were cut, were not adjacent lands within the
meaning of the law. This court concurred with the Circuit
Court of Appeals in adjudging the charge to be a sound interpretation of the act.
The report in the Stone case showed, as stated in the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, that no timber fit for its use
was found along the line of either of the railroads, that both
of them penetrated a barren region, almost entirely destitute
of timber, and that timber was cut from the lands along the

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

line of the Northern Pacific Railroad about fifty miles distant
from the eastern end of the other roads, which was the nearest
point where available timber could be had.
We thus have the authority of this court that lands which
are adjacent within the meaning of this act of 1875 must be
lands in proximity, contiguous or near to, the line of the road.
While "proximity" or "nearness" to an object is somewhat
uncertain as a measure of distance, yet the use of such words
as a definition, brings to the mind the idea that lands which
are in fact far off, or distant, are not adjacent. And the
question is, whether lands which are twenty miles off can
reasonably be described as in proximity or near to a line of
road a couple of hundred feet wide. In our belief no one in
describing the locality of such lands would say they were
adjacent to the railroad.
The above cited cases show a conflict in the minds of the
Federal judges, as to what are the material facts upon which
to base an answer to the question, when are lands adjacent
within the meaning of this statute. "Adjacent," we admit,
is a relative term, and sometimes may depend for its proper
application upon the facts in the particular case.
The matter of the construction of this language was the
subject of a letter from Mr. Vilas, who was then Secretary of
the Interior, to the Attorney General, dated January 10, 1889,
after the decision of the cases in 31 Fed. Rep. supra. The
Secretary was of the opinion that while nothing in the term
"adjacent," as used in the statute, rendered it necessary to
imply that the lines bf survey should be resorted to to define
its extent, there was at the same time nothing in this indefiniteness, which, in his opinion, could authorize the view that timber
or other material could be taken from public lands so far away
as may be reached by wagon transportation in a single day, or
any other given period of time. He thought that the use of
the word "adjacent" intended and meant'the right to the
public lands which were conveniently contiguous to the right of
way and immediately accessible from it, and he did not believe

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

that it was the purpose of Congress or that his department
ought to decide that the railroad company could range the
public lands to secure material for the construction of the
road, when it did not happen to exist on those lands which, in
the ordinary acceptance of the phrase, would be regarded as
adjacent to the right of way. Taking into consideration the
whole case, the Secretary was of opinion that it was"As far as sound discretion will warrant executive officers
to go until an authoritative decision by the courts, to hold that,
under this phrase, material may be taken from the tier of
sections through which the right of way extends, as immediately adjoining the right of way, and perhaps an additional
tier of sections on either side, as within the idea of 'adjacency.'
. . . In view of all the facts and considerations applicable,
it is believed the definition and rule given are fair and just, and
legitimately to be adopted. I think it wiser and safer to pursue
such a rule, subject as it is to review by the courts, than to
leave the matter open to the varying notions of different officers
or the necessities of the companies."
There is in our judgment much to be said in favor of this
view of the statute. It falls in with the general system adopted
by the United States for the survey of its public lands. Those
sections touching the line of the road would of course be included within the term, while those next to them might also
be included, because, although not touching, they would be
near to such line, and would, therefore, come within any
definition of the term as being close or near to the line without
being contiguous to or actually touching it. It is not at all
unreasonable to say that very probably Congress had in mind
this general system of division of the public lands, and that
the word "adjacent" would properly be interpreted with respect thereto. If the word "adjoining" had been used instead of "adjacent," those sections touching the line of the
road could be regarded as the adjoining lands, and when the
word "adjacent" instead of "adjoining" is used, it might, not
unnaturally, be said to include the next tier of sections away

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. 00.
192 U. S.

539

Opinion of the Court.

from the line of the road. We do not think that sections still
further removed could under this rule be regarded as adjacent.
The rule also gives certainty and definiteness to an otherwise
somewhat doubtful expression, and, as the Secretary says,
prevents the companies from ranging the public lands to
secure material for the construction of their roads, and thus
raising questions of legality in cutting in almost every case
where the lands were beyond the sections described by the
Secretary. This alone is an important consideration.
If not bounded by section lines, the term "adjacent" becomes of more or less uncertain meaning. We cannot, however, conclude that within any fair construction of the statute,
these lands were in any event adjacent to the line of the road.
The word is also used in the same section, when speaking of
the use of ground adjacent to the right of way for purposes
of depots, machine shops, etc. In such use it is clear the word
is greatly limited. We take it there is a limit beyond which
lands could not be described as adjacent to the line of the
railroad, even if they were benefited by its construction and
were the nearest public lands upon which timber could be
found and the timber thereon could be transported by wagon
with profit to the company. Lands which are twenty miles
off we cannot regard as adjacent to the line of a railroad within
the meaning of this statute. On the other hand, lands within
two miles, we assume all would agree, ard so adjacent. Now,
at what point- between these two extremes lands are on one
side adjacent and on the other not adjacent, is a very difficult
matter to decide. It is necessarily somewhat vague and uncertain, and we are not called upon to determine it in this case.
All we have to do now is to declare that lands as far off as the
lands in question are not adjacent lands, and it is unnecessary
to say at what point on the intervening lands adjacency begins.
It is very difficult to determine just where twilight ends and
night begins, but it is easy enough to distinguish noon from
midnight. If we say that two miles would be within the term
and twenty would be beyond it, it might be asked why nineteen

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

miles would not also be beyond it, or three miles be within it,
and these questions might puzzle one to answer. It can only
be said that a distance of twenty miles is beyond it any way
and two miles would be within it. If, then, short distances
be proposed and an answer requested as to whether they are
or are not within or without the limit, each division might
be so small that no clear and decided difference could be asserted between it and the land immediately adjoining, and so
it might result in no difference being stated between two and
twenty, and yet we know there is a division and it lies somewhere between those two points. The nearer an approach
is made to a junction between what is stated to be the adjacent
and the non-adjacent lands, the more difficult it becomes to
show any difference warranting a different decision, and yet,
as we have said, there is a point at which there can be no doubt.
We think twenty miles is certainly beyond any fair distance
in which lands could be said to be adjacent to the line of this
road. And we say this while fully recognizing and keeping
in mind the liberal rule of construction set forth by this court
in the Denver Railroad case, 150 U. S. 1, supra. We appreciate
the fact that the act was passed to "secure public advantages
and to subserve the public interests," but nevertheless it does
not grant free license to roam the public lands and take timber
wherever thereon it may be found, or wherever by possibility
it might be taken with profit to the company. The statute
says that the lands must be adjacent, and there must of necessity therefore be a point where the lands are not adjacent, even
though the timber might be removed therefrom with some
possible profit to the company. As Congress has not given
the definition of adjacent, such as has been adopted by any
of the lower courts, we cannot, even by a so-called liberal construction, enlarge the ordinary meaning of the word to the
extent made necessary in order to justify this cutting.
We cannot take, for the reasons already stated, the fact of
wagon road transportation, as a means of deciding whether the
lands are or are not adjacent, for it seems to us that it may lead

UNITED STATES v. ST. ANTHONY R. R. CO.
192 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

us far beyond any reasonable limit to the word. The same
may be said as to the benefits to the land by the building of
the road. That also would in many cases lead too far from
the line. In this case most of the transportation was done by
water, the timber being driven or rafted down the river, and
in that way the distance was from twenty-two to twenty-six
miles, although such timber might have been hauled by wagon
with reasonable profit. Now, suppose the nearest timber lands
of the government were a hundred miles away, but by reason
of water communication the timber could be floated down to
the line of the road "with reasonable profiti" would such lands
then be adjacent? We think clearly not. And it is because
of the fact that the distance would be plainly too great to conform to any of the meanings which have heretofore been given
to the word. It strikes one so at first blush. We are of opinion
that the same ought to be said of these lands. They are not
adjacent, for they are not near; they are not in close proximity to this strip of land two hundred feet wide: This ordinary limitation of the meaning of the word should not be
enlarged for the purpose of thereby embracing lands which
otherwise would not come within any fair construction of the
statute.
The further question is as to. the time when the value of the
timber is to be ascertained.
The parties agreed that the amount of the timber growing
on the lands is correctly stated in the answer, and the value
thereof at the place where the timber was cut was $1.50 per
thousand feet and the value upon delivery to the defendant
was $12.35 per thousand feet. The delivery to the defendant
was made by the Thompson Mercantile Company, with which
the railroad company had entered into a contract to be supplied with the necessary ties and timbers for the construction
of its road, and in such contract the mercantile company was,
by the expressed terms thereof, appointed the agent of the
defendant, and in that capacity it was authorized by the
defendant to cut timber for the purpose mentioned. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

mercantile company did cut the timber on the lands, which it
in good faith supposed were adjacent to the line of the railroad,
and delivered such timber to the railroad company upon the
line of its road. We think the measure of damages should be
the value of the timber after it was cut at the place where it
was cut. The defendant does not, in our judgment, come
within either the case of Wooden-ware Company v. United
States, 106 U. S. 432, or that of Pine River Logging Company
v. United States, 186 U. S. 279. In both of those cases the
parties doing the cutting did it willfully and in bad faith. In
the Wooden-ware case the timber was sold by the original
trespasser to a third party without notice of the trespass, and
the party purchasing was guilty of no willful wrong. It was,
however, held that the defendant, having purchased from the
original wrongdoer and willful trespasser, was liable for the
value of the timber at the time and place it was purchased by
defendant.
In the Pine River Logging case, the parties to the contract
were held liable for the full value of the timber after it was cut
and had increased in value by reason of the labor expended
upon it by the parties who did the cutting. This was on the
ground that they were willful trespassers, acting in bad faith,
and ought to be made to suffer some punishment for their
depredations; but it was stated that where the trespass is the
result of inadvertence or mistake, and the wrong was not intentional, the value of the property when first taken must
govern.
Although in this case it is agreed that the defendant did not
act under a mistake, meaning thereby that the facts touching
the status of the timber and the lands where the timber was
cut were known, yet what was done was in the belief by the
defendant that the lands were adjacent to the line of the road
and that the cutting was legal. It was done upon the advice
of counsel, and the defendant used ordinary care and prudence
in first being advised as to the law upon the facts ah they have
been agreed upon, and there was no intention on the part of

STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the defendant to violate any law or to do any wrongful act.
This, we think, clearly takes the case out of the principle of
those above cited, and the measure of damages must, therefore,
be the value of the timber at the time and at the place where
it was cut.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to
the Circuit Court for the District of Idaho, Southern Division,
with directions to enter judgment in favor of the United States
for the amount of the timber as stated in the answer, and for
its value at the rate of $1.50 per thousand feet.
So ordered.

UNITED STATES ex rel. STEINMETZ v. ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 383. Argued January 12,13, 1904.I-Decided February 23, 1904.
A rule of practice in the Patent Office when established by the Commissioner

of Patents under section 483, Rev. Stat., constitutes, in part, the powers
of the primary examiner and the Commissioner, and becomes to those
officers an authority under the United States, and this court has jurisdiction under section 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, to review a final judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia where the
plaintiff in error assails the validity of such a rule.
Section 4886, Rev. Stat., gives a right, which is a substantial one, to join
inventions which are related to each other in one patent and this right
cannot be denied by a hard and fixed rule which prevents such joinder in
all cases. Such a rule is not the exercise of discretion but a determination not to hear.
Rule 41 of Practice in the Patent Office, in so far as it requires a division
between claims for a process and claims for an apparatus if they are related and dependent inventions, is invalid.
Mandamus is the proper remedy where the Commissioner of Patents has refused to require the primary examiner to forward an appeal to the board
of examiners in chief to review the ruling of the primary examiner requiring the petitioner to cancel certain of the claims in his alplication.

THIS is a petition in mandamus filed in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia to compel the Commissioner of

