WABASH R. R. CO. v. FLANNIGAN.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. FLANNIGAN.
ERROR TO THE ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 115. Submitted December 18, 1903.-Decided January 4, 1904.

Where the Federal question asserted to be contained in the record is
manifestly lacking all color of merit the writ of error will be dismissed.
On petition of interpleader in a state court by a judgment debtor to engraft upon two judgments for the same debt, one in the State in which
the action is brought and the other in a different State, a limitation to a
single satisfaction out of a specific sum, there is no merit in the claim to
protection under the due faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution where it does not appear that in the state courts any rights were
set up specifically based upon the judgment obtained in the other State,
an effect was claimed therefor which if denied to it would have impaired
its force or effect, or any right to the relief demanded was predicated
upon the effect to be given thereto.

THE action wherein was entered the judgment which is
sought to be reviewed by this writ of error was begun on
December 20, 1900, by the filing in the Circuit Court of the
city of St. Louis of a petition on behalf of the Wabash Railroad Company, the plaintiff in error in this court. The defendants named in the petition were Alexander Flannigan
and Virgil Rule, the present defendants in error. The cause
of action was ultimately embodied in a third amended petition,
filed, by leave of court, on April 15, 1901. From a recital
made in the opinion of the St. Louis Court of Appeals the
following summary of the allegations of that pleading is made:
After asserting its existence as a consolidated corporation
from a named date, plaintiff alleged that it was indebted,
on June 10, 1891, to one Tourville, for wages, in the sum of
$81.98; that an action to recover such indebtedness was instituted by Tourville in a court of the State of Missouri on the
date named, and that a judgment was rendered in favor of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

Tourville, which had been finally affirmed by said court; that
in April, 1895, the defendant Flannigan recovered judgment
against Tourville and the railroad company in a court of the
State of Illinois, the railroad company being made garnishee
in the action on account of the original indebtedness of $81.98
to Tourville, above mentioned; that Tourville had assigned
the judgment obtained by him in the Missouri court to the
defendant Virgil Rule, and that both the defendants Flannigan
and Rule were undertaking to collect their respective judgments from the railroad company. The court was asked to
permit a deposit in court of the sum of $81.98 and interest,
and to require the defendants to interplead and to have determined their rights in respect to such deposited sum. The
defendant Rule was served with summons, and a written
appearance was filed on behalf of Flannigan, who was a nonresident.
In stating the subsequent steps in the litigation we shall
omit reference to the facts which clearly have no relevancy
to the alleged Federal questions.
Following the filing of the third amended petition an application was made for the allowance of a temporary injunction
against the defendants, prohibiting them from attempting to
enforce their respective judgments pending the determination
of the action. An order was thereupon made temporarily
restraining the defendants, and requiring them "to show
cause, if any they have, why a temporary injunction should
not be issued herein, and the relief prayed for in said third
amended petition should not be granted." A "return" to
this order to show cause was filed on behalf of the defendant
Rule, and therein were set forth numerous reasons why a temporary injunction should not issue and the relief prayed in
the third amended petition should not be granted. Flannigan
answered, admitting each and every allegation therein, and
claiming priority of lien and right of payment out of the socalled fund of $81.98. Thereafter, on April 22, 1901, the
plaintiff filed a motion for the relief prayed for, notwithstand-

WABASH R R. CO. v. FLANNIGAN.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ing the aforesaid return of Virgil Rule, and numerous reasons
were stated in support of the motion. On April 29, 1901, the
court entered the following order:
"Now at this day come the parties herein by their respective
attorneys, and the order issued herein on April 15, 1901, commanding the defendants to show cause why a temporary injunction should not be granted against them, coming on for
hearing upon the pleadings, affidavits and proofs adduced,
and the court having duly considered the same, and being
sufficiently advised of and concerning the premises, doth order
that the prayer of plaintiff's bill be and is denied. It is further
ordered by the court that the restraining order granted against
defendants on April 15, 1901, be and is hereby dissolved."
A motion for rehearing was filed and overruled. The motion
was based upon the assumption that the order in question
operated as a judgment dismissing the petition. The fifteenth
and last ground of the motion and the first and only specific
reference made to the Constitution of the United States in
the proceedings up to that time was as follows:
"Fifteenth. Because the court erred in refusing to give full
faith and credit to the judgment of a sister State, as required
by the Constitution and laws of the United States."
On appeal the St. Louis Court of Appeals entered-a judgment
affirming in all things the "judgment" of the trial court. 75
S. W. Rep. 691. No allusion was made in the opinion to any
constitutional question. Application was then made to transfer the cause to the Supreme Court of Missouri, upon the claim
that it involved "a construction of section one of article four
of the Constitution of the United States." The application
was denied. A petition was next presented to the presiding
judge of the St. Louis Court of Appeals, praying the allowance
of a writ of error from this court. The petition was overruled, for the following stated reasons:
"In Wabash Railroad Company v. Tourville, 179 U. S.322,
the judgment herein involved came under review. The validity of the Tourville judgment, as we understand the opinion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

was sustained, and its priority over that of Flannigan was
adjudged. In the face of this decision we deny the writ."
A writ of error was afterwards allowed by a justice of this
court. The error assigned embraced the following alleged
Federal questions:
"19. Your petitioner charges and avers that in said suit,
while the same was pending in said Circuit Court and in said
Court of Appeals, the construction of the following clauses
of the Constitution of the United States was drawn in question, viz:
"The following clause of section 1, article IV: 'Full faith
and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every other State.'
"Section 11, article IV: 'The citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States.'
"The following clause of section 1, article XIV, of amendments to the Constitution: 'No State shall make or enforce
any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States, nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process of law,
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.'
"Your petitioner says that the decisions of the courts on said
clauses of the Constitution in said cause were against the rights,
title, privilege and exemption specially set up and claimed
under said clauses of said Constitution by your petitioner."
Mr. Wells H. Blodgett and Mr. George S. Grover for plaintiff
inerror:
The court has ample jurisdiction to hear and determine this
controversy by reason of the constitutional question apparent
upon the face of the record. Insurance Co. v. Needles, 113
U. S.574; Carpenter v. Strange, 141 U. S.87; Water Co. v.
Green Bay, 142 U. S.269; Gordon v. Bank, 144 U. S.97; Cooke
v. Avery, 147 U. S.375; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S.

WABASH R. R. CO. v. FLANNIGAN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

440; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Sayward v. Denny, 158
U. S. 180; Railway v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Canal Co. v.
Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58; Water Power Co. v. Railway Co., 172
U. S. 475.
The judgment of a siiter State may become a Federal question: First. Where the existence or validity of such judgment
is in dispute in a state court, and the decision impairs its
integrity, or existence; Second. Where the effect of the judgment according to the law and usage of the State where rendered is in dispute in a state court, and the decision is adverse
"to the claimed or contended effect of such judgment." The
case at bar falls under the latter instance. Crapo v. Kelley,
88 U. S. 610; Dupasser v. Rochersar, 21 Wall. 130; Live Stock
Company v. Butchers Union, 120 U. S. 141; Huntington v.
Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Railway v. Sturm, 174 U. S. 710; Green
v. Buskirk, 5 Wall. 310.
By denying the relief prayed for, the court below deprived
the plaintiff in error of its property "without due process of
law," in violationL of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Railway Co. v. Sturm, 194
U. S. 710.
Plaintiff in error was entitled to the relief prayed for
and Flannigan was entitled to a hearing on the issue of priority.
A bill of interpleader may be properly filed in any cause,
as well after the adverse claims to the fund have been reduced
to judgment, as prior .to that time. Cheever v. Hodgson, 9
Mo. App. 565; Dodds v. Gregory, 51 Mississippi' 351; Woodruff
v. Taylor, 20 Vermont, 65; Provident Savings Inst. v. White,
115 Massachusetts, 112; 2 Story Eq. Jurisprudence (13th ed.),
137 note; Hamilton v. Marks, 5 DeGex & Smale, 638; 13 Eng.
Law & Eq. 321; Jonson v. Maxey, 43 Alabama, 521; Newhall
v. Kastens, 70 Illinois, 156; Mills v. Townsend, 109 Massachusetts, 115; Robards v. Clayton, 49 Mo. App. 610; Building
Association v. Joy, 56 Mo. App. 433.
The plaintiff has never been guilty of laches.
VOL. oxcii-3

OCTOBER TERMI,

1903.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

Mr. John D. Johnson and Mr. Virgil Rule for defendant in
error, Rule:
The decision of the St. Louis Court of Appeals was upon the
ground that all the parties to the bill of interpleader had had
their day in court, and that the questions raised were res
adjudicata. This is not a Federal question and this court is,
Ellis,
therefore,without jurisdiction. NorthernPacificRailroadv.
144 U. S. 464; Hammondv. Johnson, 142 U. S. 73; Hickmanv.
Fort Scott, 141 U. S. 415; Chaffin v. Taylor, 116 U. S. 367;
Clark v. Keith, 106 U. S. 464; Peck v. Sanderson, 18 How. 42.
In order to give this court power to revise the judgment of
a state court it must appear upon the transcript that the
constitutional question was raised by the pleadings and decided against plaintiff in error. Oxley v. Butler Co., 166 U. S.
657, 658; Hoydt v. Sheldon, 1 Black, 518, 521; Maxwell v.
Newbold, 18 How. 511.
This court will not review the judgment of a state court
except upon the decree of the highest court in the State. Rev.
Stat. U. S. see. 709; Farnsworth v. Montana, 129 U. S. 104;
Desty's Fed. Proc. sec. 223.
The Supreme Court of Missouri is the highest court in that
State having jurisdiction in constitutional questions. Constitution of Missouri, art. 6, sec. 12; State v. St. Louis Ct. of
App., 97 Missouri, 296, 299; State v. Caldwell, 57 Mo. App.
447; In re Essex, 44 Mo. App. 289.
The bill of interpleader does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against defendants, for the following
reasons:
It is essential to a bill of interpleader that the plaintiff shall
make known his condition as a stakeholder by bringing a suit
within a reasonable time after being advised of the double
claims against him. Cheever v. Hodgson, 9 Mo. App. 565;
Dodds v. Gregory, 61 Mississippi, 351; McDevitt v. Sullivan, 8
California, 592; Union Bank v. Kerr, 2 Md. Ch. 460; Ency. P.
& P. 462 k; Barnes v. Bamberger, 196 Pa. St. 123; Brackett v.
Graves, 51 N. Y. St. Rep. 895.

WABASH R. R. CO. v. FLANNIGAN.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

It is an essential to a bill of interpleader that the right of
either defendant to the fund should not have been previously
determined by a judgment at law against the plaintiff. MeKinney v. Kuhn, 59 Mississippi, 186; Risher v. Roush, 2 Missouri, 95; French v. Robrchard,5 Vermont, 43; Holmes v. Clark,
46 Vermont, 22; Mitchell v. N. W. Mfg. Co., 26 Ill. App. 295;
Carrollv. Parks, 1 Baxt. 269; Yarborought v. Thompson, B. S.
& M. 291; Haseltine v. Brickley, 16 Gratt. 116; Cornish v.
Tanner, 1 Young & J. 333; Prov. Ins. Co. v. White, 115 Massachusetts, 112.
A bill of interpleader must show that the plaintiff is ignorant
of the rights of the parties who are called upon to interplead.
Ency. P. & P. 465, n. 2; Barker v. Barker, 42 N. H. 78; Shaw
v. Coster, 8 Paige, 339; Morgan v. Fillmore, 18 Abb. Pr. 219;
Mohawk, etc., R. Co. v. Chute, 4 Paige, 384; Pfister v. Wade, 56
California, 43; Illingworth v. Rowe, 52 N. J. Eq. 360; Trigg v.
Hitz, 17 Abb. Pr. 436; Del., etc., R. R. Co. v. Corwith, 16 Civ.
Pro. Rep. (N. Y.) 312; Heckmer v. Gilligan, 28 W. Va. 750.
A judgment debt of one jurisdiction is not subject to a bill
of interpleader in another jurisdiction. Crane v. McDonald,
118 N. Y. 657; Snodgrass v. Butler, 54 Mississippi, 45; Fulton
v. Chase, 6 N. Y. Supp. 126; Gibson v. Goldwaite, 7 Alabama,
281; Stone v. Reed, 152 Massachusetts, 179; Boston, etc., v.
Skillings, 132 Massachusetts, 418; Fairbanks v. Bilknap, 135
Massachusetts, 179; Kyle v. Mary Lee Coal Co., 112 Alabama,
606; Morristown v. Binnings, 26 N. J. Eq. 345; Bartlett v.
Sutton, 23 Fed. Rep. 257.
The Circuit Court had no power to enforce its judgment
against the person of defendant Flannigan, hence a temporary
injunction as against him would have been wholly without
effect, unless he chose to obey it. Rev. Stat. Mo. 1899, sec.
598d; Sheedy v. Second.Nat. Bank, 62 Missouri, 17.
The Missouri court would have no pow6r to decree that the
judgment of the Illinois court was void or that it was not void.
Carpenterv. Strange, 141 U. S. 88.
A court of one jurisdiction cannot enjoin the collection of a

OCTOBER TERM£, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

judgment of another court of competent jurisdiction, in the

absence of any allegation of fraud in obtaining such judgv.
ment. Scrutchfield v. Souter, 119 Missouri, 621; Nelson
104;
Brown, 23 Missouri, 13; Keith v. Plemmons, 28 Missouri,
Pettus v. Elgin, 11 Missouri, 411; Mellier v. Bartlett, 89 Missouri,
ex rel. v.
137; Haehl v. Wabash R. Co., 119 Missouri, 325; State
Eggers, 152 Missouri, 487.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The opinion of this court, upholding the correctness of the
of
judgment entered by the Circuit Court of Missouri in favor
anTourville, referred to in the preceding statement, was
nounced on December 3, 1900. Wabash R. R. Co. v. Tourville,
179 U. S. 322. The action now under review was begun
seventeen days later. In the action which was under review
in 179 U. S. the contention on behalf of the railroad company
was that, despite the fact that on March 26, 1895, the Supreme
a judgCourt of Missouri, on appeal by Tourville, had entered
judgrender
to
Appeals
of
ment directing the St. Louis Court
earned
wages
of
ment in favor of Tourville for the full amount
filing
by him, the railroad company was yet entitled, after the
higher
in the St. Louis Court of Appeals of the mandate of the
directed
judgment
the
of
amount
the
court, to offset against
to be entered in favor of Tourville, the sum of the judgment
had been
recovered by Flannigan in the attachment suit which
the Suof
instituted in Illinois subsequently to the decision
of
preme Court of Missouri in Tourville's action. The claim
Supreme
jurisdiction in this court to review the judgment of the
the conupon
based
was
to,
Court of Missouri, just referred
to the
give
to
courts
tention that the refusal of the Missouri
for
claimed
Illinois judgment in favor of Flannigan the effect
faith and
it by the railroad company was a denial of the full
of secvirtue
by
entitled
was
credit to which that judgment
States.
United
the
of
tion 1 of article IV of the Constitution

WABASH R. R. CO. r. FLANNIGAN.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As already stated, the present action was begun after the
opinion reported in 179 U. S. 322, affirming the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Missouri, was delivered.
The controversy in the present action relates to the same
judgments which were under consideration in this court in the
prior action, and the purpose of the railroad company in this,
as in the previous case, was to limit the amount which might
be collected by the holders of the respective judgments against
it to a sum which in the aggregate would not be in excess of
the indebtedness to Tourville upon his original claim. In
substance, therefore, the present action is but an attempt by
indirection to do that which the Supreme Court of Missouri
and this court have held in the prior action could not be done.
The constitutional questions now urged on behalf of plaintiff
in error are that the dismissal of its petition for interpleader
was a denial of full faith and credit to the garnishment judgment rendered by the Illinois court, and that the denial of the
relief prayed for also violated the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
The objection last stated need not be further noticed, as it
was asserted for the first time in the petition for the allowance
of a writ of error from this court. We think it unavoidably
results also that the claim of the protection of the due faith
and credit clause of the Constitution of the United States here
relied on is without merit. Nowhere in its petition for interpleader or in the proceedings had thereunder in the Missouri
courts did the railroad company set up rights specifically
based upon the Illinois judgment, claim for that judgment an
effect which, if denied to it, would have impaired its force and
effect, nor did the railroad company predicate any right to the
relief demanded upon the effect due to the Illinois judgment.
The relief asked by the railroad company in substance tended,
on the contrary, to lessen the force and effect both of the
Missouri and Illinois judgments. It was sought to change
the status of the company from that of a general debtor for

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

the amount due upon each judgment and to engraft upon the
judgments a limitation to a single satisfaction out of a specific
fund. In its petition the railroad company expressly alleged
its inability to determine whether the Illinois or the Missouri
judgment possessed a priority of right to payment out of the
so-called fund. Clearly, also, even the owner and holder of
the Illinois judgment could not, in reason, contend that the
judgment of the Missouri court complained of had the effect
of denying full faith and credit to the judgment of a sister
State. As the settled rule in this court is that where the
Federal question asserted to be contained in a record is manifestly lacking all color of merit, the writ of error must be dismissed, Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 493, and cases
cited, it results that the writ or error in this case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Writ of errordismissed.

BENZIGER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND
No. 54.

CIRCUIT.

Argued December 10, 11, 1903.-Decided January 4,1904.

Paragraph 649 of the Tariff Act of 1897, providing for the free entry of
"casts of sculpture when specially imported in good faith for the use
and by the order of any society incorporated or established solely for
religious [or other specified] purposes, should be liberally construed, and
any fair doubts as to its true construction should be resolved by the
courts, in favor of the importer. Figures known and correctly described
as "casts of sculpture," imported in accordance with this provision of
the statute, held to be entitled to free entry thereunder notwithstanding
the fact that similar articles were described by certain manufacturers in
trade catalogues as statuary or composition statues.
CERTAIN figures representing various saints, and also two
figures of adoring angels, as specified in the collector's letter
to the board of general appraisers, were, in March, 1899, spe-

