OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
192 U. S.

Syllabus.

ages of tea, which had been reimported after export from this
country upon a final rejection of the tea by the board of general
appraisers as not entitled to admission into the United States

for consumption under the tea inspection act of March 2, 1897.
Buttfield appeared as claimant, and a demurrer filed on his
behalf to the information was overruled. The claimant failing
to plead further, a final decree and judgment of forfeiture was
entered. A reversal is asked upon the sole ground that the
act of March 2, 1897, referred to, is repugnant to the Constitu-

tion of the United States. Upon the authority of Buttfield v.
Stranahan just decided, the judgment below is

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BROWN took no part

in the decision of this case.

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE COMPANY v. SPEED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 356. Submitted January 11, 1904.-Decided February 23,1904.

In a constitutional sense "imports" embrace only goods brought from a
foreign country and do not include merchandise shipped from one State
to another. The several States are not, therefore, controlled as to such
merchandise by constitutional prohibitions against the taxation of imports, and goods brought from another State, and not from a foreign
country, are subject to state taxation after reaching their destination and
whilst held in the State for sale.
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, have
never been overruled directly or indirectly by Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, or other cases resting on the rule
expounded in those cases.
Goods brought in original packages from another State, after they have arrived at their destination and are at rest within the State, and are enjoying the protection which the laws of the State afford, may, without
violating the commerce clause of the Constitution, be taxed without discrimination like other property within the State, although at the time
they are stored at a distributing point from which they are subsequently

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

501

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to be delivered in the same packages, through the storage company to purchasers in various States.
Where the levy of a merchant's privilege tax violates no Federal right the
mere determination of who are merchants within the state law involves
no Federal question. The construction of the state law is conclusive and
if it embraces all persons doing a like business there is no discrimination.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of court.

Mr. Josiah Pattersonfor plaintiff in error:
In the construction of the constitution or statutory law of
a State, this court follows the uniform decisions of the highest
court in such State, notwithstanding this court would have
reached a different conclusion from an application of the principles of general jurisprudence. Morley v. Lake Shore, etc.,
Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 162; Miller v. Swann, 150 U. S. 132; Balt.
Traction Co. v. Balt. Belt R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 137; Marchantv.
Penna. R. R. Co., 153 U. S. 380; Fallbrook Irrigation Dist. v.
Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; Aberdeen Bank v. County of Chehalis,
166 U. S. 440; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586; Bank
v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Christy v. Pridgeon,4 Wall. 196.
Where the court of last resort in the State has, previously
to the controversy, placed an interpretation on a local statute
different from the interpretation placed on it in the pending
suit, this court may adopt either construction, in accordance
with its own opinion of the rules of general law which should
govern the case. Roberts v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 158 U. S. 1;
Wilson v. Ward &c. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 674; Nat. Foundry and
P. Wks. v. Oconto Water Co., 68 Fed. Rep. 1006; Knox County
v. Ninth Natl. Bank, 147 U. S. 91; Bartholomew v. City of
Austin, 85 Fed. Rep. 359; Jones v. Great Southern Fire Proof
Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 370; Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76
Fed. Rep. 296.
Where the decision of a court of last resort in a State is
adverse to some right claimed under the Constitution of the
United States, or some law of Congress, and such decision does
not involve the construction of the constitution of such State,
or any of its local laws or usages, but the claim of right is denied

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

on the opinion of such state court as to the principles of general
law applicable to the case, then such decision is not a precedent
binding on this court, and the Federal questions presented
will be determined by this court according to its own independent judgment of the principles of general jurisprudence
involved in the controversy. Boyce v. Tabb, 18 Wall. 546;
Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Svift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1;
Willis v. Commissioners, 86 Fed. Rep. 872; Hartford Fire Ins.
Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry., 70 Fed. Rep. 201.
Where a party brings a case on writ of error to the court of
last resort in a State, and claims that he has been deprived by
the decision of such court of some right secured to him under
the Constitution of the United States, this court becomes the
exclusive and final arbiter of such Federal question, and will,
after giving the opinion of the state court respectful consideration, decide the case for itself, independently of any construction which such court of last resort may have placed on the
constitution, or local laws and usages of such State. Scott v.
McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Fallbrook Irr. Dist. v. Bradley, 164 U. S.
112; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244;
Central Trust Co. v. Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 1;
State Bank v. Knoop, 16 How. 369.
Subsec. 3, § 8, Art. I, Const., in its application to a subject
which is national in its character, and admits and requires
uniformity of regulation affecting alike all the States, means
that Congress alone has the power to provide such regulations
as the exigencies of commerce may require, and the absence
of any legislation on the subject is equivalent to a declaration
by Congress that commerce, as to that subject, shall be free.
The importation of goods from one State into another is a
subject of national importance, affecting the welfare of the
whole country, and, therefori, the absence of any law of Congress in respect to an article which is the subject of interstate
commerce, operates as an affirmative declaration that the
importation of that article shall be free from any regulation or
restriction whatever by the State into which such article is

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

imported.

503

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Bowman v. Chi-

cago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 507; Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100; Pittsburg & Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S.
577. Goods imported from one State into another are the subjects
of interstate commerce, and in the absence of any law of Congress, they will remain under the protection of the Federal
Constitution exempt from any regulation or interference on
the part of the State into which they are imported, until the
status of such goods is changed by mingling them with the
general property of the State, and thereby terminating their
character as subjects of interstate commerce. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 436; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Lyng v.
Michigan, 135 U. S. 161.
The power to tax is the power to destroy, and, therefore,
the taxation of the subjects of interstate commerce is a regulation of "commerce among the several States," inhibited by
the Constitution. Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Bowman
v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465; Weston v.
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Postal Tel. Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688.
The constitutionality of a tax imposed by a State is not
to be determined by the manner of its imposition, or the
agency through which it is collected, but by the subject on
which the tax is imposed. If the tax operates as a burden
on a subject of interstate commerce, it is obnoxious to the
Federal Constitution, without regard to its character or the
method of its enforcement. Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.
460; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; State Freight Tax, 15
Wall. 232; Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; Bank of Commerce v.
New York, 2 Black, 620.
As long as goods imported from one State into another
remain in the original packages in which they were transported, they will continue the subjects of interstate commerce, and the owner of the goods, in the absence of any law
of Congress, may sell them in the original packages in the

OCTOBER 'I'ER,

190.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

State into which they are imported, without restriction, interference or regulation by such State. Brown v. Maryland,
12 Wheat. 436; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Pabst Brewing Co. v. Terre
Haute, 98 Fed. Rep. 330.
The original package of commerce is a package, bundle or
aggregation of goods put up for convenience of transportation
into whatever covering or receptacle the importer may elect,
and delivered by him to the carrier at the initial point of shipment, to be transported from one State into another; and
where a number of smaller packages are, for convenience,
placed within a larger package, or bound together in a bundle,
such bundle or larger package will constitute the original
package of commerce; and when the bundle is unbound, or
the larger package opened, in order to expose the smaller
packages for sale, the goods will become mingled with the
general property of the State and cease to be subjects of interstate commerce. Cases cited supra and Sawrie v. Tennessee,
82 Fed. Rep. 615; Keith v. The State, 10 L. R. A. 430; McGregor v. Cone, 39 L. R. A. 484; Guckenheimer v. Sellers, 81
Fed. Rep. 997; Austin v. State, 17 Pick. (Tenn.) 563.
When goods designed for exportation from one State into
another State start on their journey at the initial point of
transportation, they at once become subjects of interstate
commerce, and are protected by the Federal Constitution from
any interference or regulation by any State through which
they may pass, until they reach their ultimate destination,
notwithstanding, on the way, they may be delayed for a reasonable time on account of inadequate means of transportation, or for reshipment, or assortment, or distribution, or on
account of any accident, or any other cause which may supervene to prevent the goods going directly from the initial point
of shipment to the point of destination. Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Howe Machine Co. v.
Gage, 100 U. S. 676; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon,188 U. S.

A=MRIOAN STt]L & WIRE CO. v. SPE).
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

82; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Caldwell v. North Carolina,
187 U. S. 622; State v. Engle, 5 Vroom (N. J.), 425; State v.
Carrigan,10 Vroom (N. J.), 35; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 405;
Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580; New York v. Compagnie &c.,
107 U. S. 59.
As the absence of legislation on the part of Congress is
equivalent to a positive declaration that interstate commerce
shall be free, it follows that its subjects may be transported
from one State into another, and there sold in the original
packages, without the imposition of burdens of any kind, and
that the imposition of a tax on such subjects by the State into
which they are imported cannot be justified or upheld on the
ground that the tax is equal and applies impartially to all
goods of like character within the limits of such State. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489; Leloup v.
Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129;
Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27.
When goods imported from one State into another, whether
in the original packages of commerce or not, are, by the State
into which they are imported, made subjects of an invidious
and discriminating tax, because of their foreign origin, the
Federal Constitution will intervene to protect them from such
invidious or discriminating tax, and its protection will continue as long as the goods can be identified, and the invidious
discrimination exists. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275;
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 436; Woodruff v. Parham, 8
Wall. 123; State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Minneapolis Brewing Co. v. McGillivray, 104 Fed. Rep. 258.
Mr. Charles T. Cates, Jr., Attorney General of the State of
Tennessee, with whom Mr. James M. Greer and Mr. W. H.
Carroll were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is final,
conclusive and not reviewable by this court in respect of the
questions of fact involved in said judgment. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 664; In re Buchanan, 158 U. S. 36. And of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

interpretation, and application to the facts found, of the constitution and statutes of Tennessee as declared in said judgment. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Gottlieb, 190 U. S. 425; New
York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 661.
That plaintiff in error was carrying on the business of a
merchant, and as such properly assessed for taxes, within the
sense and meaning of the Tennessee statutes. State v. Smith,
5 Humph. 394; Taylor v. Vincent, 12 Lea, 282, distinguished.
See Kurth v. State, 86 Tennessee, 134, 137, and see acts of 1885,
c. 1, § 15; of 1887, c. 2, § 16; of 1901, c. 174, §27.
The whole matter involving the status of plaintiff in error
as a merchant and its liability to be assessed as such, was, on
the appeal of plaintiff in error, laid before the state board- of
equalization where the assessment as made was in all respects
affirmed. This is final as to all matters passed upon by it.
Acts of 1901, c. 174, sec. 38, subsec. 10; acts of 1899, c. 4435,
sec. 39, subsec. 10; Grundy County v. Tenn. Coal Co., 94 Tennessee, 305; Ward v. Alsup, 100 Tennessee, 750.
The tax assessed against plaintiff in error as a merchant
contains no element of discrimination against it as a foreign
dealer, or otherwise. Oliver Finney Grocery Co. v. Speed, 87
Fed. Rep. 409, 412. That it is not a strict ad valorem tax is
conclusively shown by the provision in the revenue acts relating to the assessment of personal property. Acts of 1899,
c. 435, sec. 8, class 9; acts of 1901, c. 1.74, see. 8, class 9.
Section 30, art. II of the constitution of Tennessee has been
before the state Supreme Court in a number of cases and it has
been uniformly decided that the exemption therein provided
applies only to the manufactured article in the hands of the
manufacturer at his place of business, and that it does not
exempt goods or articles manufactured of the produce of the
State, in the hands of the merchant or dealer, from the merchant's tax. State v. Crawford, McNeil & Co., 2 Head, 461.
The taxing acts are in no sense discriminatory against plaintiff in error as a foreign dealer or its goods as articles manufactured in another State. New York State v. Roberts, 171

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

U. S. 658, 666; Bell Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.
232.

The tax assessed against plaintiff in error as a merchant is
not in violation of Art. I, sec. 8,subsec. 3, of the Constitution
of the United States, which empowers Congress "to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States,
and among the Indian tribes."
Cases cited on brief of plaintiff in error do not support its
contention. See Coe v. Errol,116 U. S. 517; Brown v. Houston,
114 U. S. 622; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1.
Plaintiff in error was not entitled to escape taxation because
its goods were taxed when "in transit" from one State to
another, nor on the ground that goods were imported into
Tennessee in original packages of commerce and there offered
for sale in the original packages.
Cases on brief of plaintiff in error distihguished, and see
In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.545, .559; Ficklen v. Shelby County, 145
•U. S.21; Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123.
The revenue statutes of Tennessee under which plaintiff in
error was assessed upon the "average capital invested" by it
in its business at Memphis was designed to require it and others
in like situation with it, without discrimination, to contribute
to the revenue of the State, a tax measured by the average
amount of capital employed in said business, and is the same,
uniform and non-discriminating tax laid upon domestic corporations, individuals and firms engaged in the same business.
By whatever form or name plaintiff in error sought to cover
up its business and 'evade the equal and just tax laws of Tennessee, the fact still remains that it was engaged in the business
of a merchant in the city of Memphis. State ex rel. v. Roberts,
152 N. Y. 59, 64; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622; Pittsburgh
Sou. Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 539; Judson on Taxation,
§ 181; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 318. May v. New Orleans,
178 U. S.496, is not in favor of plaintiff in error but supports
the State's contention.
The principle underlying the question is not whether the

OCTOBER TER il, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

barges in which plaintiff in error brought its goods or the kegs
of nails and coils of wire were the original packages, but
whether said packages, that is the kegs of nails and coils of wire,
had been so used and dealt with as to make them a part of the
common mass of property in the State, and on the holding of
the Supreme Court of Tennessee on this question, based upon
the overwhelming facts as found by it, we submit that plaintiff
in error was properly assessed for taxation as a merchant upon
the "average capital invested" in its business in Tennessee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Whether the plaintiff in error is entitled to recover the sum
of certain taxes which were paid under protest, on the ground
that the taxes were repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, is the question for decision on this record.
Section 28, article IT, of the constitution of the State of
Tennessee, so far as pertinent to the issue to be decided, is as
follows:
"All property, real, personal or mixed, shall be taxed.
.

.

.

All property shall be taxed according to its value,

that value to be ascertained in such manner as the legislature
shall direct, so that taxes shall be equal and uniform throughout the State. No one species of property from which a tax
may be collected, shall be taxed higher than any other species
of property of the same value, but the legislature shall have
power to tax merchants, peddlers and privileges, in such manner as they may from time to time direct. The portion of a
merchant's capital used in the purchase of merchandise sold
by him to non-residents and sent beyond the State, shall not
be taxed at a rate higher than the ad valorem tax on property."
Section 30, article II, of the same constitution provides:
"No article manufactured of the produce of this State shall
be taxed otherwise than to pay inspection fees."
The assessing and taxing laws of the State of Tennessee in
force at the time the taxes in controversy were levied provided,
first, for a general ad valorem tax upon all property; second, for

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

509

Opinion of the Court.

a merchants' tax separate from the general ad valorem levy,
this latter tax being of two classes: A tax upon the average
capital invested in business and a privilege tax, which was at
a different rate and in other respects distinct from the merchants' tax just referred to. Moreover, at the time the tax
assessments in question were made the statutes of the State
of Tennessee concerning the merchants' tax contained the
following:
"The term 'merchants,' as used in this act, includes all
persons, co-partnerships or corporations engaged in trade or
dealing in any kind of goods, wares, merchandise, either on
land or in steamboats, wharf boats or other craft stationed or
plying in the waters of this State, and confectioners, whether
such goods, wares or merchandise be kept on hand for sale or
the same be purchased and delivered for profit as ordered."
Moreover, the assessment laws, whilst providing that all
"persons, copartners and joint stock companies engaged in the
manufacture of any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles
of value shall pay an ad valorem tax upon the actual cash value
of their property, real, personal or mixed, . . ." made
the following exception: "Provided, the value of articles manufactured from the produce of the State in the hands of the
manufacturer shall be deducted in assessing the property."
And a like exception qualified a provision imposing an ad
valorem tax upon the capital and franchises of manufacturing
corporations. Besides, the assessing statutes contained a general provision exempting "all growing crops of whatever nature
or kind-the direct product of the soil of this State in the hands
of the producer or his immediate vendee, and manufactured
articles from the produce of this State in the hands of the
manufacturer."
Whilst these laws were in force the officer whose duty it was
to list the merchant tax assessed against the American Steel
and Wire Company, which we shall hereafter call the Steel
Company, both the general merchants' tax and a merchants'
privilege tax. The company resisted the assessment, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

after unsuccessfully pressing, through the administrative channels provided by the law of Tennessee, its objections, paid the
tax under protest, and thereupon, as authorized by the law of
Tennessee, commenced this suit to recover the amount paid.
Without going into detail, it suffices to say that the bill filed
in the action to recover substantially alleged as follows: That
the company was a New Jersey corporation, having a place of
business in the city of Chicago, and owning and operating
various plants for the manufacture of wire, nails, etc., in States
other than the State of Tennessee. And, for the purpose of
facilitating the sale and delivery of the goods by it manufactured, it had selected Memphis, Tennessee, as a distributing
point, and had made an arrangement in that city with the
Patterson Transfer Company, a corporation engaged at Memphis in the transfer of merchandise. By this arrangement the
Patterson-Transfer Company was to take charge of the products
when shipped to Memphis, consigned to the Steel Company,
store them in a warehouse there, assort them and make delivery to the persons to whom the goods were sold by the Steel
Company. It was averred that the Patterson Transfer Company, in fulfilling its obligations under the contract, was in no
sense a merchant, but only a carrier, and that the Steel Company, in storing and delivering its goods at Memphis, was not
a merchant in Memphis, but was simply a manufacturer,
delivering in the original packages goods made in other States
to the persons who had bought them. In substance, besides,
it was alleged that the goods in the warehouse in Memphis were
merely in transit from the point of manufacture outside of the
State of Tennessee to the persons to whom they had been
previously sold. The levy of the tax was charged to be repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States: First, because the goods in the warehouse in
Memphis were in the original packages as shipped from other
States and had not been sold in Tennessee, and hence had not
been commingled with the property of that State, and because,
in any event, they had acquired no situs in Tennessee, as they

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were moving in the channels of interstate commerce from the
place where the goods were manufactured, for delivery to the
persons to whom in effect they had been sold. Second. Because, as the State of Tennessee exempted from taxation articles
manufactured from the produce of that State, no tax could be
imposed by Tennessee upon articles manufactured from the
produce of other States, without operating a discrimination
against articles manufactured from the produce of other States.
Issue was joined on the complaint. The trial court, deducing
from the proof conclusions of ultimate facts in favor of the
complainant, entered a decree in favor of the Steel Company.
The case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State. In that
court the validity of the tax was upheld and the judgment
below was reversed. The questions raised concerning the
repugnancy of the tax to the Constitution of the United States
were expressly considered and decided adversely to the Steel
Company. This writ of error was thereupon prosecuted.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee stated the facts as follows:
"Complainant is a corporation created under the laws of
New Jersey. Its situs is in the State of New Jersey, and its
principal business office is situated at Chicago, Ill. It is
engaged in the manufacture of nails, staples, barbed and
smooth wire, at different points north of the Ohio River. Noneof its manufactories are situated in Tennessee, and all of its
products consigned to Memphis are shipped from points beyond
the limits of this State.
"Prior to the first of February, 1900, its manufactured
products were sold and distributed throughout the Southwest
from Louisville, Ky.; Memphis, Tenn.; Greenville, Vicksburg,
and Natchez, Miss.; and New Orleans, La. About that time
the Patterson Transfer Company, a corporation created under
the laws of Tennessee, having its situs at Memphis, and doing
business at Memphis, represented to appellee that Memphis
was the most available point in the Southwest at which to mass
and distribute its manufactured products to its customers in
that section. At this time, and for many years prior thereto,

OCTOBER TERMT, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the Patterson Transfer Company had been engaged in the
business of transferring passengers and freights to and from
the various depots at Memphis, and from the landings on the
Mississippi River. Appellee entered into an arrangement with
the Patterson Transfer Company, whereby said company was
to receive its manufactured products at Memphis, assort them
so as to separate the different kinds of nails, staples and wire,
and then to deliver them, either to the jobbers at Memphis, or
to the jobbers beyond the limits of Tennessee, over the various
lines of railroads and steamboats running into Memphis, as
directed by complainants.
"None of complainant's products are ever sold to the Patterson Transfer Company, or are by it sold to others, and
neither its officers nor employ~s have any knowledge whatever
of the price at which goods are sold by complainant. Under
the arrangement between them, the business of the Patterson
Transfer Company, in connection with complainant's products,
is confined to their transfer to the warehouses, their assortment
in the warehouses, the keeping of them in storage, and their
subsequent delivery to the customers of the complainant, under
its general or special orders, as below indicated.
"The goods of complainant are manufactured at different
points, and it is convenient and useful, from a business point
of view, to mass them at some place at which they can be assorted, and from which they can be distributed to complainant's
customers. It is impracticable to assort the goods either at
the river landing or at the railroad depots when they reach
Memphis, and, in order to facilitate the work, the Patterson
Transfer Company has rented three warehouses in which the
goods are stored for the purpose of assortment and distribution,
and for other purposes below indicated. These warehouses are
rented exclusively for this purpose, and the manufactured
products of complainant, and no other goods, are stored therein.
"The evidence further shows that, as a general rule, prior
to the time the goods are shipped to Memphis, sales agents of
the complainant canvass the Southwestern country, and make

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.

513

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

contracts exclusively with jobbers; and in each instance where
a contract is made it is embodied in writing, on a form prepared
by complainant, in which is set down the amount of goods which
constitutes the subject of the contract, and the time agreed
upon within which" they are to be delivered. The goods so
contracted for are described as so many kegs of nails, so .many
kegs of staples, so many reels of barbed wire, or so many coils
of smooth wire, according to the terms of the contract, in respect of the quantity agreed upon. But the contract does not
specify the grade and quality of the goods desired. The grade
and quality are left open, to be subsequently specified when
the customer desires a delivery, as below stated. The customer can, when he makes his specification, select any grade
of goods he desires, and, upon so selecting, they will be delivered
to him, up to the quantity contracted for, within the time
agreed upon, at prices contracted for applicable to the several
grades. In fixing the price of its goods, the complainant always, except when necessary to lower prices in order to meet
competition, figures in the freight on the goods.
"As above indicated, it is shown in the evidence that there
are many different kinds of nails, as well as different kinds of
barbed and smooth wire, and it is expressly stipulated in the
contract that the customer shall have the privilege of specifying, during the life of the contract, the kind of wire, or kind of
nails or staples he desires delivered to him under the contract.
These contracts also specify from sixty to ninety days as the
time within which the products are to be delivered; and at any
time during the period prescribed in the contract the customer
may designate the kind of goods he desires delivered under it.
"These contracts are made, usually before the goods arrive
at Memphis, their point of destination, and generally the contracts are made in advance of the production of the goods at
the complainant's factory. Usually the sales agents of the
complainant, not only in advance of the shipment of the goods,
but in advance of their production, canvass the Southwestern
country-in the manner above stated-visiting the various
VOL.

oxoi-33

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

jobbers, ascertaining the amount of goods they will require
within sixty or ninety days, and the contract is prepared to the
purport above indicated, in which the complainant obligates
itself to deliver, at the price stated, as above mentioned, the
amount of goods contracted for therein, and the customer
agrees to receive and pay for that quantity, upon the goods
being delivered to him after he shall have made, and according
to, his specification, which he may make during the life of the
contract; the customer reserving the right, in the face of the
contract, to specify the exact grade or quality of goods he
desires delivered under it. He does this after the making of
the contract, and at any time he desires to do so, within the
life of the contract, by writing out his specification showing
precisely what grade of goods he desires, and forwards this
specification to the office of complainant in Chicago, and then
the goods, under an order from the Chicago office, addressed
to the Patterson Transfer Company at Memphis, are selected
by the latter out of the mass of goods belonging to the complainant in the aforesaid warehouses in Memphis, and are
shipped by the said Patterson Transfer Company to the customer who has signed the specification. This order from the
complainant to the Patterson Transfer Company is effected
through the agency of a copy of the specification, which is
forwarded to the latter from the complainant's central office
at Chicago, it being understood, according to the course of
business between the two companies, that the Patterson Transfer Company will select out of the mass of goods those set out
in the specification, and will ship them to the customer whose
name is signed to the specification, upon receiving such copy
of the specification from the central office at Chicago.
"This method of transacting the business is modified in
practice, in so far as the fulfillment of contracts made with the
jobbers at Memphis is concerned. For the convenience of the
Memphis trade, complainant advises the Patterson Transfer
Company of the names of its customers at Memphis, and that
company is instructed to deliver the goods embraced in the

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contracts with the Memphis jobbers, in the following manner:
The Memphis jobber makes out his specification in duplicate,
and addresses a letter to complainant, as in any other case;
but, instead of forwarding this letter and his specification
directly to complainant, he delivers the letter to the Patterson
Transfer Company, and the Patterson Transfer Company at
once delivers the goods so specified, attaching the dray receipt
to a copy of the specification, and forwards the specification,
letter and dray receipt to the office of complainant in Chicago,
and that office makes out an invoice and sends it directly to
the jobber. Another variation is made in the course of the
business, in favor of the Memphis jobbers, to the following
effect: Any jobber in Memphis who is a recognized customer
of the complainant can, without any previous written contract, or other special agreement, make out a specification of
the goods he desires, and hand this, in duplicate form, to the
Patterson Transfer Company. Upon this being done it is the
duty of the Patterson Transfer Company, under its general
instructions from the complainant, to select out of the mass
of goods in the warehouses, goods corresponding to those contained in the specification, and deliver them to such jobber,
this delivery usually being made by the next day, or, at most,
within two or three days. Other deliveries on specifications
sent direct to the Chicago office are not usually made within
less than six or eight days, and sometimes a longer period is
required. When the Patterson Transfer Company receives
from Memphis jobbers the specifications, which are the special
subject of this paragraph, one copy is kept by it, and the other
copy is forwarded to the office at Chicago, where, upon its
arrival and reception, the customer is charged with the goods
specified, at current prices.
"The testimony shows that of the mass of goods kept on hand
in Memphis, in the above-mentioned warehouses, about ninety
per cent ultimately goes to jobbers who reside outside of
Memphis, and beyond the limits of this State. The remaining
ten per cent goes to the Memphis jobbers in fulfillment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

general contracts previously referred to, pursuant to specifications thereunder made, and under specifications made without
previous written contracts, the latter covering about two and
one-half per cent of all the goods kept on hand.
"No one but an agreed or recognized customer of the complainant can make out a specification, or have goods delivered
from the storehouses of the Patterson Transfer Company; and
no goods are ever delivered or distributed to any one by the
Patterson Transfer Company except under the express directions of complainant, or under general directions given by
complainant to the Patterson Transfer Company, in favor of
recognized and approved customers of the complainant, whose
names are furnished by it to the Patterson Transfer Company.
"The testimony further shows that the quantity of goods
which the complainant keeps on hand at Memphis fluctuates
considerably, owing to the state of trade from time to time.
Sometimes the stock is as low in value as 830,000, and sometimes the complainant has on hand a stock of the value of
more than $100,000.
"Some of the goods, a very small amount, are shipped to
Memphis by rail. Nearly all of these goods which come to the
hands of the Patterson Transfer Company from this complainant are transported to Memphis on barges belonging to transportation companies, in which complainant has no interest,
and which are engaged in the carrying trade. As a general
rule, while the complainant endeavors to secure contracts
covering its output before the goods are manufactured, yet
it does not always do so; but, taking advantage of the seasons
when there is a good stage of water in the rivers, which must
be used in floating its products from its mills to Memphis, it
masses its goods at the latter point in anticipation of future
sales.
"The testimony shows that when goods are shipped from
complainant's mills, consigned to Memphis, the Patterson
Transfer Company is notified by the Chicago office that a
certain quantity of complainant's products were shipped at

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v,. SPEED.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a certain time, on barges, to the port of Memphis. These
barges are met at the river landing by the Patterson Transfer
Company, which receives the goods, transfers them to its
warehouses and assorts them. Then, from time to time, it
ships the goods on specifications, as before explained. On
receiving the goods they are credited to the complainant on
the books of the Patterson Transfer Company, and, on being
shipped out, they are charged on the same books to the complainant. When the goods reach Memphis they are always
consigned to the complainant, in care of the Patterson Transfer
Company.
"All the goods forwarded to Memphis are products of the
factories of complainant. No part of them are ever purchased
by it. Its sales agents are exclusively engaged in selling these
products. They are produced by complainant beyond the
limits of this State, and are made the subject of contracts by
its sales agents throughout the Southwest, in the manner before
explained. These sales agents report all contracts effected by
them directly to the office in Chicago, whether made with the
jobbers at Memphis, or elsewhere beyond the limits of this
State. All invoices for goods, when sold by specifications in
the manner above stated, are made out at the office at Chicago,
and forwarded directly to the customer, in the manner and
under the circumstances previously stated.
"Some of the complainant's goods are produced at one
factory and some at another, and, consequently, when a purchaser contracts for the delivery to him, within sixty or ninety
days, of a certain number of packages, it frequently turns out
that some of the goods desired are the product of one factory,
and some of another, and it is, accordingly, most convenient
in the conduct of complainant's business that goods from
complainant's various factories should be massed at some point
where they can be dealt with in the manner before explained.
"Complainant's goods are put up in -the following original
packages: The nails and staples are put up in kegs, each keg
weighing 100 pounds; the smooth wire in coils tied by wires,

OCTOBER TERI,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

and each coil weighing 100 pounds; the barbed wire on reels,
the wire on each reel weighing 100 pounds. Each package is
separately and distinctly made up at the factories for convenience of transportation, and is, in this form, delivered to the
common carriers. In this form they are delivered at the initial
point of transportation. In this form they are transported in
barges, or by railroads to Memphis, and received by the Patterson Transfer Company. In this form they are assorted at the
warehouses by the Patterson Transfer Company, and delivered
by it to the complainant's customers at Memphis, under the
circumstances previously stated, or to the various lines of

steamboats and railroads running out of Memphis, consigned,
under circumstances previously stated, to customers beyond
the limits of Tennessee, and in this form they ultimately come
to the hands of complainant's customers in such foreign States.
Each package is separate and distinct in itself, and while no
particular package is consigned to any special customer, each
keg of nails and staples is marked so as to show exactly what
the package contains, and each coil and reel of wire is marked
with a tag showing what the coil or reel contains, and no package is ever changed in any particular from the time it leaves
the factory until it ultimately reaches the hands of the customer.
"The testimony shows that Memphis has, within recent
years become, by reason of its accessibility to railway and
river transportation, a great distributing point; and it was
selected as the basis of the operations which are the subject
of the present controversy, by reason of these exceptional
advantages.
"Other facts proven by the complainant are as follows:
The testimony of Mr. Young, the tax assessor, shows that none
of the cotton shipped into Memphis from the surrounding
States pays any tax whatever, and that the manufacturers of
lumber in Memphis pay no tax on lumber made from logs
which are produced from the soil of this State."
With these facts in hand we are of opinion that the court

AMERICAN STEtL & WIRE CO. v. SPED.
192 U. S.

519

Opinion of the Court.

below was right in deciding that the goods were not in transit,
but, on the contrary, had reached their destination at Memphis,
and were there held in store at the risk of the Steel Company,
to be sold and delivered as contracts for that purpose were
completely consummated. All question, therefore, as to the
power of the State to levy the merchants' tax based, on the
contrary contention, being without merit, may be put out of
view. • The other propositions pressed upon our attention require consideration. They relate to two subjects: First, the
asserted want of power of the State of Tennessee to tax because
the goods were imported from another State, and were yet, it
is contended, in the original packages; and, second, because of
the alleged discrimination asserted to result from the provision
of the state constitution exempting goods manufactured from
the produce of the State.
1. Since Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, it has not been
open to question that taxation imposed by the States upon
imported goods, whether levied directly on the goods imported
or indirectly by burdening the right to dispose of them, is
repugnant to that provision of the Constitution providing
that "No State shall, without the consent of the Congress,
lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports." Article I,
sec. 10, paragraph 3. And Brown v. Maryland also settled
that where goods were imported they preserved their character, as imports, and were therefore not subject to either
direct or indirect state taxation as long as they were unsold
in the original packages in which they were imported. A
recent case referring to the authorities and restating this elementary doctrine is May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496. Assuming that the goods concerning which the state taxes in
this case were levied were in the original packages and had
not been sold, if the bringing of the goods into Tennessee from
another State constituted an importation, in the constitutional
signification of that word, it is clear they could not be directly
or indirectly taxed. But the goods not having been brought
from abroad, they were not imported in the legal sense and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

were subject to state taxation after they had reached their
destination and whilst held in the State for sale. This is as
conclusively foreclosed by the decisions of this court as is the
doctrine resting upon the decision in Brown v. Maryland.
Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
622. The doctrine upon which the cases rest was this, that
imports, in the constitutional sense, embraces only goods
brought from a foreign country, and consequently does not
include merchandise shipped from one State to another. The
several States, therefore, not being controlled as to such merchandise by the prohibition against the taxation of imports,
it was held that the States had the power, after the goods had
reached their destination and were held for sale, to tax them,
without discrimination, like other property situated within
the State.
Those two cases, decided, the one more than thirty-five and
the other more than eighteen years ago, are decisive of every
contention urged on this record depending on the import and
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The doctrine which the two cases announced has never since
been questioned. It has become the basis of taxing power
exerted for years, by all the States of the Union. The cases
themselves have been approvingly referred to in decisions in
this court too numerous to be cited, and we therefore content
ourselves by mentioning two of the cases where the doctrine
was restated. Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296; Kelley v.
Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1. But it is strenuously insisted that the
principle of the cases referred to, reiterated again and again
and uniformly followed for so long a period of time, has been
by inevitable implication overruled by the cases of Leisy v.
Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, and
other cases resting on the rule expounded in those cases.
We might well leave the unsoundness of the proposition to
be demonstrated by what we have previously said, and also
by the fact that, in Leisy v. Hardinand Lyng v. Michigan, and
most of the similar cases relied on, the decisions in Woodruff

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Parham and Brown v. Houston were referred to without even
an intimation that those cases were deemed to be overruled or
even qualified. The earnestness with which the contention is
pressed induces us, however, briefly to point out the misconception upon which it rests. It results from assuming that
the rule which governs in a case where there is an absolute
prohibition is applicable where no such prohibition obtains.
Brown v. Maryland illustrates the first of these cases, while
.Woodruff v. Parham,Brown v. Houston, Leisy v. Hardin,Lyng
v. Michigan are examples of the other. Thus, in Brown v.
Maryland there was an absolute want of power to tax imports,
and it was held that a state enactment which operated to tax
imports, whether directly or indirectly, was within the positive
prohibition. In other words, that imports could not be taxed
at all until they had completely lost their character as such.
Woodruff v. Parham and Brown v. Houston, on the other hand,
so far as interstate commerce was concerned, dealt with no
positive and absolute inhibition against the exercise of the
taxing power, but determined whether a particular exertion
of that power by a State so operated upon interstate commerce as to amount to a regulation thereof, in conflict with the
paramount authority conferred upon Congress. In order to
fix the period when interstate commerce terminated, the
criterion announced in Brown v. Maryland, that is, sale in
the original packages at the point of destination, was applied.
The court, therefore, conceded that the goods which were taxed
had not completely lost their character as interstate commerce,
since they had not been sold in the original packages. As,
however, they had arrived at their destination, were at rest
in the State, were enjoying the protection which the laws of the
State afforded, and were taxed without discrimination like all
other property, it was held that the tax did not amount to a
regulation in the sense of the Constitution, although its levy
might remotely and indirectly affect interstate commerce. In
Leisy v. Hardin and Lyng v. Michigan the same question in a
different aspect was presented. The goods had reached their

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

destination and the question was not the power of the State to
tax them, but its authority to treat the goods as not the subjects of interstate commerce and to prohibit their introduction
or sale. This was held to be a regulation within the constitutional sense, and therefore void. The cases, therefore, did not
decide that interstate commerce was to be considered as having
completely terminated at one time for the purposes of import
taxation, and at a different period for the purpose of interstate
commerce. But both cases, whilst conceding that interstate
commerce was completely terminated only after the sale at the
point of destination in the original packages, were rested upon
the nature and operation of the particular exertion of state
authority considered in the respective cases.
2. The discrimination is asserted to have arisen from the
provision of the state constitution, saying that "no article
manufactured of the produce of this State shall be taxed otherwise than to pay inspection fees." But in Kurth v. State, (1887)
86 Tennessee, 134, it was decided that this provision of the
constitution referred only to a direct levy of taxation on articles
manufactured of the produce of the State, and did not apply
to taxes levied by virtue of the grant conferred by the constitution to tax "merchants, peddlers, and privileges, in such
manner as they (the legislature) may from time to time direct."
The two provisions, it was held, should be construed together,
so that the one would not limit the other. We have been
referred to no case decided by the Supreme Court of Tennessee
modifying this interpretation of the state constitution, and its
correctness is in effect directly affirmed by the ruling made by
the court in this case. Now the tax complained of on this
record is not the general ad valorem tax levied on property
as such but is a merchants' tax, and is therefore not within
the purview of the exemption clause from which it is asserted
the discrimination arises. Construing the taxing statutes of
the State the court below decided in this case that they equally
apply to all merchants, and hence did not discriminate as
against any member of the merchants' class. The argument

AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CO. v. SPEED.
192 U. S.

523

Opinion of the Court.

is made that under the facts found by the court below it was
erroneously held that the Steel Company, because of the business which it carried on in the State of Tennessee, was a merchant within the statutes and the power to review this question,
it is insisted, should be exerted because the question is Federal
in its nature. The contention is without merit. As the levy
of the merchants' tax violated no Federal right, the mere
determination of who were merchants within the state law
involved no Federal question. The construction of the state
law being conclusive and embracing all persons doing a like
business with the Steel Company, it follows that there was
no discrimination. Conceding it to be true, as argued, that
in the past there would seem to'have been conflict of opinion
in the court of Tennessee in interpreting various statutes concerning the merchants' tax, this contrariety does not concern
the meaning of the .statute construed in this case. As that
statute has been construed by the state court as applying to
all merchants and as embracing alike all persons engaged in
the character of business which the Steel Company was carrying on, it follows that there is no ground upon which to predicate the complaint of undue discrimination. Nor do we think
that the opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee in Benedict
et al. v. Davidson County, not yet officially reported, (67 S. W.
Rep. 806,) conflicts with the views just expressed. That case
involved, not a merchants' tax, but the validity of a general
ad valorem levy on property as such, and, therefore, affords no
ground for the contention that manufacturers in Tennessee
who shipped the goods by them made from the products of the
State to a depot for sale, and there sold them under conditions
and circumstances identical with those presented here, could
not be taxed as merchants under the law of Tennessee.
Affirmed.

