SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 397
Syllabus.

192 U. S.

The question is not whether all stockholders remained such
if notice were not published, but whether the liability as stockholders, as to subsequent transactions, continued in spite of
the termination of that relation, and that question is answered
by the explicit terms of the ninth section of the charter.
Decree affirmed.

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. McCLAIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 103. Argued December 3,1903.-Decided February 23,1904.

1. Subdivision 4, section 629, Rev. Stat., was not superseded by the Judiciary
Act of 1887, 8, and under it a Circuit Court may take cognizance of a
suit arising under an act providing for internal revenue without regard to
the citizenship of the parties.
2. Where the constitutionality of an act of Congress is not drawn in question,
a case involving simply the construction of the act is not embraced by the
fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
3. A suit against a collector to recover sums paid under protest as taxes imposed by the War Revenue Act of 1898, 30 Stat. 448, is, within the meaning of the Judiciary Act of 1891, to be deemed one arising under both the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, if relief be sought upon
the ground that the taxing law is unconstitutional, and if constitutional
that its provisions, properly construed, do not authorize the collection of
the tax in question.
4. A case "arising

.

.

. under the revenue laws" section 6, Judiciary Act

of 1891, and involving the construction of a law providing for internal
revenue, but which, from the outset, from the plaintiff's showing involves
the application or construction of the Constitution, or in which is drawn
in question the constitutionality of an act of Congress, may be carried
by the plaintiff, as of right, the requisite amount being involved, from the
Circuit Court of Appeals to this court for final determination.
5. The tax imposed by section 27 of the War Revenue Act of 1898, upon the
gross annual receipts, in excess of $250,000 of any corporation or company
carrying on or doing the business of refining sugar, is an excise, and not
a direct tax to be apportioned among the States according to numbers.
In estimating t6e gross annual receipts of the company for purposes of
that tax, receipts derived from the use of wharves used by it in connection

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

with its business should be included, but the receipts by way of interest
received on its bank deposits or dividends from stock held by it in other
companies should be excluded.

THE plaintiff in error, who was the plaintiff below, is a sugar
refining company, incorporated under the statutes of Pennsylvania for the purpose "of refining sugar, which will involve
the buying of the raw material therefor, and selling the manufactured products, and of doing whatever else should be incidental to the said business of refining."
The defendant is the Collector of Internal Revenue for the
.First District of that Commonwealth.
The plaintiff seeks by two separate actions to recover certain
sums, paid by it under protest to the defendant as Collector,
and which it is alleged were unlawfully exacted by that officer
under the twenty-seventh section of the act of June 13, 1898,
entitled "An act to provide ways and means to meet war
expenditures, and for other purposes;" by which act a tax was
imposed upon the gross annual receipts, in excess of a named
sum, of every person, firm, corporation or company carrying
on or doing the business of refining sugar-the amount of the
tax to be determined by the returns of business required by the
statute. 30 Stat. 448, 464, c. 448.
By agreement of the parties, the issues in the two causes
were consolidated and tried as one cause.
It is conceded that before bringing the actions the plaintiff
did all that was required in order to maintain a suit against the
Collector, and that the payments made by it to that officer were
not voluntary.
The record contains a summary of the returns made by the
plaintiff covering its entire gross receipts from June 14, 1898,
to August 1, 1900, under these heads: Period covered by return;
Indebtedness due before June 14, 1898; Amounts received from
interest, rent and wharfage, and stevedoring; Sugar sold since
June 14, 1898; Gross receipts; Amount of tax paid; and Dates
of payment."
The plaintiff contended that for the purposes of the tax in

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 399
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

question certain things were included, as being part of its gross
annual receipts arising from business, which could not properly
have been so included, and that no tax could legally have been
exacted on account of them. The Government insisted that
no taxes had been exacted which the law did not requir6 to be
paid.
In its statement of demand the plaintiff alleges that no part
of its receipts from other sources than the business of refining
sugar was taxable under the provisions of the act; that no tax
upon receipts was payable or collectible before the end of the
year from the date of th. passage of the act; that the administration of the act makes arbitrary, unjust and illegal discrimination, founded on a pretended difference between the business
of manufacturing and of refining sugar, between the plaintiff
and other persons, firms, corporations and companies carrying
on and doing the business of refining sugar; and that all the
provisions of the act subjecting .the plaintiff to pay the tax in
question were in violation of the Constitution of the United
States and void.
That statement also shows that upon appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, it urged the following reasons
why the sums it had paid should be refunded: That the act, so
far as it assumed to subject corporations or companies carrying
on or doing business of refining sugar to pay a special excise
tax, was unconstitutional and void; that the tax was a direct
tax, which had not been apportioned among the several States
as required by the Constitution, was not uniform throughout
the United States, and was invalid; that the plaintiff was and
at all times had been engaged in the business of manufacturing
and not in that of refining sugar; that it refines sugar only
incidentally in the process of manufacture, and is, therefore,
not liable for the payment of the tax; that by the provisions of
the act the tax was payable annually at the end of each year
and the collection thereof monthly or for periods less than a
year and prior to the expiration of the year was illegal, unauthorized and void; and that the tax was assessed upon and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

192 U. S.

collected from gross receipts that included receipts outside of
those coming from the business of refining sugar; that such
gross receipts included receipts from sales of sugar made prior
to the passage of the act, from interest on loans and indebtedness, from dividends upon stock owned by the plaintiff in other
sugar refining companies, from wharfage collected by it upon
wharves owned by it, and from receipts from other sources.
One of the contentions of the plaintiff was that apart from
its constitutionality, the act of 1898, properly construed, did
not embrace the claims here in dispute, and therefore did not
authorize the defendant to demand and collect the taxes here
in question.
The cause was determined in the Circuit Court upon an
agreed special verdict of a jury. Some of the positions taken
by the plaintiff were sustained while others were overruled.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff for $1056.82,
the aggregate of the sums paid (with interest thereon) by way
of tax upon receipts on business done before the passage of the
act, and for stevedoring. 109 Fed. Rep. 76. The plaintiff
prosecuted a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
sustained the judgment, except in one particular, namely, in
requiring the plaintiff to pay the tax in question otherwise
than annually. 113 Fed. Rep. 244. And the case is here
upon writ of error sued out by the plaintiff.
It may be stated that both courts below formally sustained
the constitutionality of the act of 1898, remitting that question
to this court for full consideration and determination.
Mr. John G. Johnson for plaintiff in error:
It is necessary that the constitutional question which has
thus been practically relegated by the Circuit Court and by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, to this court, for actual decision, shall
be by it determined. In dealing with this question, it must
consider the whole subject-matter of controversy. Am. Sugar
Rej'g Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277; Huguley Mfg. Co. v.
Galeton Mills, 184 U. S. 290; Carey Mfg. Co. v. Acme Co., 187

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. r. McCLAIN. 401
192 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

U. S. 427; Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359; United States v.
Am. Bell Tel. Co., 159 U. S. 548, 553.
Section 27 of the War Revenue Act of 1898 imposes no tax
upon receipts by sugar refining companies from wharfage paid
to them for the use of wharves belonging to them. It arlounts
to a direct tax on rentals. The wharves were used for business
other than sugar refining. The business of building wharves
for accommodation of vessels with power to demand wharfage
therefor was distinct from the sugar business and plaintiff in
error should not be obliged to pay a percentage on wharfage
received by it when all other wharf owners were exempt.
If the act meant what the department said, it was unconstitutional, as imposing an "excise" duty upon one class of
refineries, and exacting no such duty from another. The
plaintiff was made to pay the tax, whilst its competitors, who
refined sugar made from the juice of domestic beets and cane,
were allowed to escape, thereby producing unjust and illegal
discrimination between persons in similar circumstances material to their rights. Yiek Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
Section 27 imposes no tax upon receipts by stfgar refining
companies of interest paid to them upon their deposits in bank
and of dividends from investments in shares and other securities. As to what an excise tax is, see Century Dictionary, and
authorities cited; Bouvier, citing I Black. Com., 318; Story on
the Const. § 950; Cooley on Taxation, 4, and see as to non-taxable elements of business, People ex rel. &c. v. Roberts, 154 N. Y.
1; People v. Albany Ins. Co., 92 N. Y. 458; Bailey v. R. R. Co.,
106 U. S. 109. To tax such dividends would be double taxation. Cooley on Taxation (2d ed.), ch. VI, p. 225; Merchant's
Ins. Co. v. McCartney, 1 Lowell, 447; S. C., 17 Fed. Cas.
46.
Section 27 of the War Revenue Act is unconstitutional, because it imposes a direct tax not in accordance with constitutional requirements.
Congress may levy an excise tax upon business, in the shape
of a license tax, or of a requirement of the payment of a desigVOL. exii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

nated amount, because of the privilege of doing business. As
long as the tax is not imposed upon the rem, but is required to
be paid as a condition, or in consideration, of a business or
privilege, it is an excise tax. Congress, however, cannot label
a dire~t tax an "excise tax," if the assessment is really upon
the rem.
The tax under section 27 is a direct tax. Pollock v. F. L. &
Trust Co.,157U. S.429; S.C., 158U. S. 601,629,634. Seealso
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule,
7 Wall. 445; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509.
Mr. Solicitor GeneralHoyt for defendant in error:
The court has no jurisdiction of this case, and the writ of
error must be dismissed. If the Circuit Court of Appeals had
jurisdiction, that court, having passed upon the entire case
without certifying the constitutional question, and no petition
for certiorari having been submitted, more than a year having
elapsed, the case is not properly here. Robinson v. Caldwell,
165 U. S. 359. If the Circuit Court of Appeals did not have
jurisdiction, the writ of error must nevertheless be dismissed.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rested solely on the ground
that the suit arose under the Constitution or laws of the United
States. As the constitutional question appeared on the face of
the first pleading in the case, the appellate jurisdiction of this
court, under section 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, was
exclusive. American Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181
U. S. 281; Huguley Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S.
290. The writ of error having been sued out to review, not the
judgment of the Circuit Court, but the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, this court has no jurisdiction under section 5
of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act. There are no separate
grounds of jurisdiction in this case because of a constitutional
question and of a question arising under a revenue law; the
case is one which clearly arose solely under the "Constitution
or laws of the United States." The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was not final, and for that reason not re-

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 403
192 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

viewable here. See Keystone Iron Co. v. Martin, 132 U. S.
91; Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U. S. 3.
It is asserted that the tax is not justly laid upon the plaintiff
because it manufactures rather than refines sugar. But under
the facts plainly existing in the sugar trade and shown here,
the manufacturing is only another name for refining, and the
latter process is "incident" to manufacture only in the sense
that the greater includes the less. As to the matter of interest,
wharfage and rent, the property from which these items of
income were derived was all part of the capital embarked in
the business of sugar refining. The company's charter was
given to enable it to refine sugar, and this purpose involves the
purchase of raw material, the sale of manufactured products
and the doing everything else incidental to the business. The
reasoning of the courts below is conclusive on these points.
The situation as to interest on deposits and dividends from
investments is precisely the same.
The point about double taxation is untenable. Duplicate
taxation is not open to legal objection when it is plainly intended or when it naturally and unavoidably results from the
law. Cooley on Taxation, 222, 223; The Delaware R. R. Tax,
18 Wall. 206; Sturges v. Carter, 114 U. S. 511; New Orleans v.
Houston, 119 U. S. 265; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608. The
act contains nothing to avoid the effect of double taxation,
and if it has really supervened, which is very doubtful, any
such collateral result operating equally on all who are similarly placed is natural, is reasonably to be contemplated in
such a law, is not unjust, and, as in many other tax laws, is
unavoidable.
The tax is an excise and plainly indirect. The definitions
and the opposing argument in Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608,
show that a tax upon manufacture or the process of manufacture is an excise and indirect. In considering the nature
of the tax as an excise, it makes no difference how the manufacturing activities are measured in the imposition of the tax.
This is a tax upon the process of production, and in the last

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S.

analysis is also a tax on consumption. In either aspect it is
indirect. It is plain that the incidence shifts.
The question here is purely constitutional and legal and is
eminently practical. The economic test should not rule. But
even the economists would regard as indirect this particular
variety of tax upon the gains of a calling, because it rests upon
the energies of manufacture and not upon professional receipts
or the gains of personal industry. It is evident from the opinion of the court in the Income Tax Cases, 157 U. S. 429, 579;
158 U. S. 601, 711, that notwithstanding the abstract economic
doctrine, the court regards taxes on all business gains, professional earnings, salaries, etc., as excises and indirect taxes.
Here we have a case which lies outside both the economic and
the judicial classification of direct taxes.
The Income Tax Cases state the net result of all the decisions
holding that certain taxes are direct taxes and therefore must
be apportioned, and admit to that category, besides the poll
tax specified by the Constitution, only taxes on land, on the
income of land, on personal property in general, and on the
income of personal property.
The authorities which may be invoked to support the argument that a tax on an incident or function of property is a
direct tax upon the property itself simply show that the States
cannot, directly or indirectly, burden the exercise by Congress
of the powers committed to it by the Constitution, nor may
Congress burden the agencies or instrumentalities employed
by the States in the exercise of their powers. That doctrine
does not in the least affect this case.
There can be no valid doubt of the right of Congress to select
this subject for taxation; and there can be no doubt that in
laying this excise Congress observed the rule of uniformity as
held to mean a geographical uniformity.
The Government contentions may be summarized as follows: That under its charter and in fact, plaintiff is refining
sugar, involving related purposes which the charter defines;
that the tax on interest, wharfage and rent, which are natu-

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 405
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rally and fairly incidental to the business of sugar refining, was
justly laid; that the tax is distinctly an excise and indirect,
and, so considered, it is uniform; that it cannot be viewed as
direct under the decisions of this court or under any authorities, judicial or economic, (a) because it does not fall upon
persons or property or incomes, except in the most remote and
indirect sense; (b) because it falls upon a calling or occupation
or the gains therefrom; (c) because it really operates upon the
operation of an industry, the exercise of a right, the use of
property, upon the business energies or activities; (d) because
the incidence of the tax can be, and is, shifted and passed on,
and, while immediately paid by the refiner, is ultimately paid
by the consumer.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of th; court.
We are met at the threshold of this case with a question of
jurisdiction raised by the Government, which contends that
under the existing statutes the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals cannot be reviewed by this court, at the instance
of the plaintiff, as of right.
By the fifth section of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891,
appeals or writs of error may be taken from the District Courts
or from the existing Circuit Courts direct to this court in certain specified cases, among which is "any case that involves
the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States," and "any case in which the constitutionality
of any law of the United States . . . is drawn in question." § 5.
By the sixth section of the same act it is provided that the
Circuit Courts of Appeals "shall exercise appellate jurisdiction
to review by appeal or by writ of error [the] final decision in the
District Court and the existing Circuit Courts in all cases other
than those provided for in the preceding section of this act,
unless otherwise provided by law, and the judgments or de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

crees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases
in which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens
of the United States or citizens of different States; also, in all
cases arising under the patent laws, -under the revenue laws,
and under the criminal laws, and in admiralty cases, excepting
that in every such subject within its appellate jurisdiction the
Circuit Court of Appeals at any time may certify to the Supreme Court of the United States any questions or propositions
of law concerning which it desires the instruction of that court
for its proper decision. And thereupon the Supreme Court
may either give its instruction on the questions and propositions certified to it, which shall be binding upon the Circuit
Courts of Appeals in such case, or it may require that the whole
record and cause may be sent up to it for its consideration, and
thereupon shall decide the whole matter in controversy in the
same manner as if it had been brought there for review by writ
of error or appeal.
"And excepting also that in any such case as is hereinbefore
made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals it shall be competent
for the Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or otherwise,
any such case to be certified to the Supreme Court for its review
*and determination with the same power and authority in the
case as if it had been carried by appeal or writ of error to the
Supreme Court.
"In all cases not hereinbefore, in this section, made final
there shall be of right an appeal or writ of error or review of the
case by the Supreme Court of the United States where the
matter in controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars besides costs." 26 Stat. 826, c. 517.
This suit was cognizable by the Circuit Court under the
Judiciary Act of 1887-8, as one arising under both the Constitution and the laws of the United States. 25 Stat. 433,
c. 866. It arose under the Constitution, because the plaintiff's
cause of action, as disclosed in its Statement of Demand, has
its sanction in that instrument, if it be true, as alleged, that

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 407
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the act of 1898, under which the defendant proceeded, when
collecting the taxes in question, is repugnant to the Constitution. And it arose under the laws of the United States because it arose under a statute providing for internal revenue.
By section 629, subdivision 4, of the Revised Statutes, the
Circuit Courts, without regard to the citizenship of the parties,
may take original cognizance of suits arising under a law of that
character. That provision has not been superseded by the
Judiciary Act of 1887-8. See also Rev. Stat. §§ 3220, 3226.
Was the judgment of the Circuit Court subject to review
only by this court, or was it permissible for the plaintiff to take
it to the Circuit Court of Appeals? If the case, as made by the
plaintiff's Statement, had involved no other question than the
constitutional validity of the act of 1898, or the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States, this
court alone would have had jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Circuit Court. Huguley Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton
Mills, 184 U. S. 290, 295. But the case distinctly presented
other questions which involved simply the construction of the
act; and those questions were disposed of by the Circuit Court
at the same time it determined the question of the constitutionality of the act. If the case had depended entirely on the
construction of the act of Congress-its constitutionality not
being drawn in question-it would not have been one of those
described in the fifth section of the act of 1891, and, consequently, could not have come here directly from the Circuit
Court. As, then, the case, made by the plaintiff, involved a
question other than those relating to the constitutionality of
the act and to the application and construction of the Constitution, the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to review
the judgment of the Circuit Court, although if the plaintiff had
elected to bring it here directly, this court would have had
jurisdiction to determine all the questions arising upon the
record. The plaintiff was entitled to bring it here directly
from the Circuit Court, or, at its election, to go to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for a review of the whole case. Of course,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

the plaintiff, having elected to go to the Circuit Court of Appeals for a review of the judgment, could not thereafter, if
unsuccessful in that court upon the merits, prosecute a writ
of error directly from the Circuit Court to this court. Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359; Loeb v. Columbia Township
Trustees, 179 U. S. 472; Ayers v. Polsdorfer, 187 U. S. 585.
It remains to inquire whether the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was so far final, within the meaning of the
sixth section of the act of 1891, that it could not be reviewed
here as of right upon writ of error. Can the judgment of that
court in this case be reexamined here in any way except upon
writ of certiorari granted by this court? The Government
insists that it cannot, because the case-to use the words of
the sixth section of the act of 1891-is one "arising
under the revenue laws." So far as we now remember, this
precise point has not heretofore arisen for our determination.
Looking at the purpose and scope of the act of 1891, we are of
opinion that the position of the Government on this point
cannot be sustained. It rests upon an interpretation of the
act that is too technical and narrow. The meaning of the
words "arising

.

.

.

under the revenue laws," in the sixth

section, is satisfied if they are held as embracing a case strictly
arising under laws providing for internal revenues and which
does not, by reason of any question in it, belong also to the
class mentioned in the fifth section of that act. We do not
think that the words quoted necessarily embrace a case carried
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which, although arising under
the revenue laws, and involving a construction of those laws,
depends for a full determination of the rights of the parties
upon the construction or application of the Constitution, or
upon the constitutionality of an act of Congress. We lean to
that interpretation of the act which enables the defeated party
in such a case in the Circuit Court of Appeals to have, as of
right, upon writ of error to that court, a reexamination here
of the judgment (the requisite amount being involved) if the
correctness of the judgment depends in whole or in part upon

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 409
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the application or construction of the Constitution, or upon
the constitutionality of any act of Congress drawn in question.
What we have said is in harmony with our former decisions,
although the precise point here was not involved in any of
them. In American Sugar Company v. New Orleans, 181 U. S.
277, 280, 281, it was said: "It was held in Loeb v. Columbia
Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472, where the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court rested on diverse citizenship, but the state
statute involved was claimed in defence to be in contravention
of the Constitution of the United States, that a writ of error
could be taken directly from this court to revise the judgment
of the Circuit Court, although it was also ruled that the plaintiff might have carried the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that if a final judgment were rendered by that court
against him, he could not thereafter have invoked the jurisdiction of this court directly on another writ of error to review
the judgment of the Circuit Court.

.

.

.

If plaintiff, by

proper pleading, places the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
on diverse citizenship, and also on grounds independent of that,
a question expressly reserved in Colorado Central Mining Company v. Turcc, 150 U. S.138, and the case is taken to the Court
of Appeals, propositions as to the latter grounds may be certified, or, if that course is not pursued and the case goes to judgment, (and the power to certify assumes the power to decide,)
an appeal or writ of error would lie under the last clause of
section six, because the jurisdiction would not depend solely
on diverse citizenship. Union Pacific Railway Company v.
Harris, 158 U. S.326." In Huguley Manufacturing Company
v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290, 295, it was said: "If
after the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court attaches on the
ground of diversity of citizenship, issues are raised, the decision
of which brings the case within either of the classes get forth
in section five, then the case may be brought directly to this
court; although it may be carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals, in which event the final judgment of that court could
-not be brought here as of right. Loeb v. Columbia Trustees,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

179 U. S. 472. If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rests
solely on the ground that the suit arises under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, then the jurisdiction
of this court is exclusive, but if it is placed on diverse citizenship,
and also on grounds independent of that, then if carried to the
Court of Appeals, the decision of that court would not be made
final, and appeal or writ of error would lie. American Sugar
The ground
.
.
Company v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277.
was
invoked
was
Court
Circuit
of
the
jurisdiction
the
which
on
show
not
does
record
solely diversity of citizenship, and the
anything to the contrary, so that the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals cannot be regarded otherwise than as made
final by the statute."
Now, as the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals may
be brought to this court, as of right, where the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court rested upon the diversity of citizenship, and
also upon grounds that would bring the case within section five
of the act of 1891, it must be held that the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is not final, within the meaning of the
sixth section, in a case which, although arising under a law
providing for internal revenue and involving the construction
of that law, is yet a case also involving, from the outset, from
the plaintiff's showing, the construction or application of the
Constitution or the constitutionality of an act of Congress.
For the reasons stated we hold that the plaintiff was entitled,
of right, to a writ of error for the review by this court of the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Coming now to the merits of the case, we first notice the
contention of the plaintiff that the twenty-seventh section of
the act of 1898 imposes a direct tax in violation of the constitutional provision relating to the apportionment of taxes of that
kind among the several States.
The above section of the act of 1898 is as follows: "Sec. 27.
That every person, firm, corporation, or company carrying on
or doing the business of refining petroleum, or refining sugar,
or owning or controlling any pipe line for transporting oil or

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 411
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other products, whose gross annual receipts exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, shall be subject to pay annually a special excise tax equivalent to one-quarter of one
per centum on the gross amount of all receipts of such persons,
firms, corporations, and companies in their respective business
in excess of said sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
"And a true and accurate return of the amount of gross receipts as aforesaid shall be made and rendered monthly by each
of such associations, corporations, companies, or persons to the
collector of the district in which any such association, corporation or company may be located, or in which such person has
his place of business. Such return shall be verified under oathby the person making the same, or, in case of corporations, by
the president or chief officer thereof. Any person or officer
failing or refusing to make return as aforesaid, or who shall
make a false or fraudulent return, shall be liable to a penalty
of not less than one thousand dollars and not exceeding ten
thousand dollars for each failure or refusal to make return as
aforesaid and for each and every false or fraudulent return."
The contention of the.Government is that the tax is not a
direct tax, but only an excise imposed by Congress under its
power to lay and collect excises which shall be uniform throughout the United States. Art. I, § 8. Clearly the tax is not
imposed upon gross annual receipts as property, but only in
respect of the carrying on or doing the business of refining
sugar. It cannot be otherwise regarded because of the fact
that the amount of the tax is measured by the amount of the
gross annual receipts. The tax is defined in the act as "a
special excise tax," and, therefore, it must be assumed, for
what it is worth, that Congress had no purpose to exceed its
pdwers under the Constitution, but only to exercise the authority -granted to it of laying and collecting excises.
This general question has been considered in so many cases
heretofore decided that we do not deem it necessary to consider
it anew upon principle. It was held in Pacific Insurance Co.
v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, that the income tax imposed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

internal revenue act of June 30, 1864, amended July 13, 1866,
13 Stat. 223, 14 Stat. 98, on the amounts insured, renewed
and continued by insurance companies, on the gross amount
of premiums received, on dividends, undistributed sums and
income, was not a direct tax, but an excise duty or tax within
the meaning of the Constitution; in Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533, that the statute then before the court, which required national banking associations, state banks or state
banking associations to pay a tax of ten per centum on the
amount of state bank notes paid out by them, after a named
date, did not in the sense of the Constitution impose a direct
tax, but Nyas to be classed under the head of duties, which were
to be sustained upon the principles announced in Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, above cited; in Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall.
331, that the tax imposed on every devolution of title to real
estate was not a direct tax but an impost or excise, and was,
therefore, constitutional; in Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, that
the tax imposed (30 Stat. 448) upon each sale or agreement to
sell any products or merchandise at an exchange, or board of
trade, or other similar place, either for present or future delivery, was not in the constitutional sense a direct tax upon the
business itself, but in effect "a duty or excise law upon the
privilege, opportunity or facility offered at boards of trade or
exchanges for the transaction of the business mentioned in
the act," which was "separate and apart from the business
itself;" in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 81, that an inheritance or succession tax was not a direct tax on property, as
ordinarily understood, but an excise levied on the transmission
or receipt of property occasioned by death; and, in Patton v.
Brady, 184 U. S. 608, that the tax imposed by the act of
June 13, 1898, upon tobacco, however prepared, manufactured
and sold, for consumption or sale, was not a direct tax, but an
excise tax which Congress could impose; that it was not "a tax
upon property as such but upon certain kinds of property,
having reference to their origin and intended use."
In view of these and other decided cases, we cannot hold that

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 413
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the tax imposed on the plaintiff expressly with reference to its
"carrying on or doing the business of
.
refining sugar,"
and which was to be measured by its gross annual receipts in
excess of a named sum, is other than is described in the act of
Congress, a special excise tax, and not a direct one to be apportioned among the States according to their respective numbers. This conclusion is inevitable from the judgments in
prior cases, in which the court has dealt with the distinctions,
often very difficult to be expressed in words, between taxes
that are direct and those which are to be regarded simply as
excises. The grounds upon which those judgments were rested
need not be restated or reexamined. It would subserve no
useful purpose to do so. It must suffice now to say that they
clearly negative the idea that the tax here involved is a direct
one, to be apportioned among the States according to numbers.
It is said that if regard be had to the decision in the Income
Tax Cases, a different conclusion from that just stated must
be reached. On the contrary, the precise question here was
not intended to be decided in those cases. For, in the opinion
on the rehearing of the Income Tax Cases the Chief Justice said:
"We have considered the act only in respect of the tax on
income derived from real estate, and from invested personal
property, and have not commented on so much of it as bears
on gains or profits from business, privileges or employments,
in view of the instances in which taxation on business, privileges or employments has assumed the guise of an excise tax
and been sustained as such." 158 U. S. 601.
The question of the constitutionality of the act having been
disposed of, we turn our attention to the questions involving
its construction merely.
As already stated, the judgment of the Circuit Court determined certain questions for the plaintiff. But as the Government did not prosecute a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Appeals those questions cannot be examined here, and we can
only consider such points, on the merits of the case, as are
raised by the plaintiff's assignments of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

It was in proof that the plaintiff owned three wharves on
the Delaware River, at which vessels landed, and for the use
of which those vessels paid wharfage according to the rates
prescribed by a general tariff. A large part, nearly all, of the
sugar refined by the plaintiff was brought into the port of
Philadelphia by vessels which came to those wharves, and
such vessels paid wharfage according to that tariff. Many
vessels brought raw sugar which the Refining Company had
purchased abroad. The wharves were built by the plaintiff
for the purpose of transacting any business that it might have
or for which it saw fit to use them. And nearly all the business
done at that time at the wharves was the unloading of sugar
consigned to the plaintiff. The exceptions were too few to be
regarded as material. Upon its receipts from such wharfage,
the plaintiff had been compelled to pay a tax. Was it required by the act to pay a tax upon receipts of profits from
that source? In other words, were the receipts from wharfage
properly included in plaintiff's gross annual receipts upon
which the amount of the prescribed tax was to be computed?
On this question the Circuit Court said: "Scarcely any
vessels lie at those wharves except the vessels that bring raw
sugar to the plaintiff, and the wharves are used for the convenience and greater profit of the corporate enterprise. The
money paid by the vessels for wharfage is, I think, a receipt
for the business." The view of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was thus expressed: "The use which the plaintiff really made
of its wharves was in 'carrying on or doing the business of
refining sugar.' They were part of the plant of that
business, and, as it was actually conducted, they were an essential condition of it. Consequently their receipts were its
receipts, and as such they were properly comprised in the
assessment. Adams Express Company v. Ohio State Auditor,
165 U. S. 194."
This question is not wholly free from difficulty. But we
think the better reason is with the ruling in the Circuit Court
and in the Circuit Court of Appeals, to the effect that the

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McLAIN. 415
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wharves, in every substantial sense, constituted a part of the
plaintiff's "plant" and, if not absolutely necessary, were of
great value, in the prosecution of its business; and that receipts derived by plaintiff from the use of the wharves by
vessels-particularly because, with rare exceptions, the vessels using them brought to the plaintiff the raw sugar which
it refined -were receipts in its business of refining sugar. The
primary use of the wharves was in connection with and in the
prosecution of that business. The importation of raw sugar
from abroad was not, in any proper sense, a separate business,
but an essential part of the plaintiff's general business of refining sugar. The wharves were part of the instrumentalities
and conveniences employed by plaintiff for the successful
management and conduct of its business of refining sugar.
Without the wharves the gross amount of receipts and profits
from such business would probably have been less than they
were in fact. If the receipts from the use of the wharves were
reasonably to be deemed receipts in the plaintiff's business of
refining sugar, as we think they were, then they were properly
treated as a part of its gross annual receipts, upon which, in
excess of the sum of $250,000, the tax in question was rightly
imposed.
The remaining assignment of error relates to the including
in the plaintiff's gross annual receipts of interest paid to it upon
deposits in bank and dividends received by it upon shares of
stock in other companies. Upon this point Judge McPherson,
holding the Circuit Court, said: "This interest, I think, was
properly included by the Collector in determining the annual
value of the business. It was corporate property, presumably
used for corporation purposes, and was as much engaged in
the business of refining as the capital invested in machinery or
raw materials." Judge Dallas, with whom concurred Judge
Acheson, delivering the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, said: "The interest received by the plaintiff upon its
corporate funds, either deposited in bank or invested in income
producing securities, was also rightly included. The special

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

verdict states that it was 'interest upon its investments of
moneys and property as explained by the testimony of Mr.
Ball,' and it appears from that testimony that the only business of the plaintiff was sugar refining, and that this interest
was received by it upon investments or deposits of such part
of the capital of that business as at the time being was not in
active use therein. Mr. Ball, it is true, also testified that it did
not have anything to do with sugar refining, but the question
for our decision is, not whether this interest was derived from
the refining of sugar,.,which of course it was not, but whether
or not it was received in the business of sugar refining, and upon
this very different question the facts found are conclusive.
The funds of the corporation, however any portion of them
may have been temporarily applied or held, were all embarked
in the sugar refining business, and to it, therefore, all receipts
which those funds produced necessarily belonged. Any diminution of them would certainly have been its loss, and it
seems to be equally clear that their augmentation, however
occasioned, must have been its gain. Except in connection
with and as incidental to that business, the plaintiff was neither
an investor nor a depositor, and therefore, by becoming either
the one or the other, it did not engage in an additional and
separate business." Judge Gray, dissenting, said: "Keeping
in mind the well settled rule, that the citizen is exempt from
taxation, unless the same is imposed by clear and unequivocal
language, and that where the construction of a tax is doubtful,
the doubt is to be resolved in favor of those upon whom the
tax is sought to be laid, I cannot assent to the affirmance of
the judgment of the court below in this respect. I do not
think that the income derived from such investment of funds
is in any proper sense a receipt in the business of sugar refining. The very term 'gross receipts' in 'the business,' would
seem to exclude all such receipts as the interest upon investments here referred to."
We are of opinion that upon the point last stated there was
error. The gross annual receipts, upon which, in excess of a

SPRECKELS SUGAR REFINING CO. v. McCLAIN. 417
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

certain amount, the tax was imposed, were, under the statute,
only receipts in the business of refining sugar, not receipts from
independent sources. But, clearly, neither interest paid to
the plaintiff on its deposits in bank, nor dividends received by
it from investments in the stocks of other companies, were
receipts in the business of refining sugar. The moneys deposited by the plaintiff in bank were, we assume, on this record,
the profits it had earned in the business in which it was engaged.
Profits did not necessarily remain in the business; and whether
they would be divided among stockholders or be used in the
further prosecution of the business was for the plaintiff to
determine. They could have been used for purposes wholly
distinct from the business of refining sugar. We are of opinion
that the receipts by the plaintiff of interest on its bank deposits
had no necessary relation to the business of refining sugar, but
rested wholly upon some agreement.or understanding, between
the bank and the depositor, which had no direct connection
with that business. And the same thing may be said of plaintiff's investment of its moneys in the stocks of other companies. In the absence of any showing to the contrary, it
must be assumed that the declaration or the receipt of dividends on such stocks was wholly apart from the particular
business in which the holder of the stock was engaged.
We hold that in the matter of interest received by the plaintiff on deposits in bank, as well a's in the matter of dividends
received by it on stocks in other companies, the judgments of
both the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals were
erroneous.
The judgment of each court is reversed and the cause is
remanded for such further proceedings as may be necessary
for the correction of the errors hereinbefore specified, and as
may be in conformity with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: Mr. Justice BROWN and myself are of
opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
voL. cxcrt-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

this case was made final in that court by the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891, and that, therefore, the writ of error should be
dismissed.

CORNELL v. COYNE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 113. Argued January 18, 19, 1904.-Decided February 23, 1904.
The prohibition in the Constitution against taxes or duties on exports attaches to exports as such and does not relieve articles manufactured for
export from the prior ordinary burdens of taxation which rest upon all
property similarly situated.
In construing a statute the title is referred to only in cases of doubt and
ambiguity; and where doubt exists as to the meaning of a statute in regard to a privilege claimed from the government thereunder it should be
resolved in favor of the government.
The fact that a quantity of "filled cheese" was manufactured expressly for
export does not exempt it from the tax imposed by the act of June 6,
1896, 29 Stat. 253, and the reference in that act to the provisions of existing laws governing the engraving, issue, etc., of stamps relating to tobacco
and snuff, and making them applicable to stamps used for taxes on filled
cheese as far as possible, does not relate to stamps issued without cost for
tobacco and snuff manufactured for export.

ON June 6, 1896, Congress passed an act, 29 Stat. 253, entitled "An act defining cheese, and also imposing a tax upon
and regulating the manufacture, sale, importation, and exportation of 'filled cheese.' " Section 2 defines "filled cheese."
Section 3 directs that "manufacturers of filled cheese shall pay
four hundred dollars for each and every factory per annum."
Section 6 provides for the stamping and branding of the wooden
packages in which manufacturers are required to pack filled
cheese, and that "all sales or consignments made by manufacturers of filled cheese to wholesale dealers in filled cheese

