BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Hereafter, in case the other counties should fix rates in such
manner that, taken as a whole, the rates in the three counties
would not insure an income of at least six per cent, as provided
for in the act of 1885, the company would of course not be
bound to accept such rates, and a decree in this case would not
bind it in regard to the propriety of rates for the future, as
fixed by the ordinance of 1896 for the county of Stanislaus. ,
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed and the
bill dismissed without prejudice.
So ordered.

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROI THE COURT OF CLA!IS.
No.23. Argued December 9, 1903.-Decided January 18, 1904.
Damages to land by flooding as the result of revetments erected by the
United States along the banks of the Mississippi River to prevent erosion
of the banks from natural causes are consequential and do not constitute
a taking of the lands flooded within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S.
269, followed; United States v. Lijnah, 188 U. S. 445, distinguished.

TrE appellants were owners of land on the Mississippi River,
in the State of Louisiana, amounting to five thousand or six
thousand acres, upon which were cabins, other buildings and
fences. They brought suit in the Court of Claims for damages
to their lands, alleged to have resulted from certain works of
the United States. The damages consisted, as found by the
court, of the erosion and overflow of about twenty-three hundred acres of the land. The works of the government and
their operation are described by the court in the following
findings:
"Prior to the spring of 1876 the Mississippi River flowed

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

192 U. S.

around a narrow neck of land known as De Soto Point, and
in going around this point flowed by the city of Vicksburg in
a southwesterly direction. In the spring of 1876 De Soto
Point became so narrow by erosion that the river broke through,
leaving De Soto Point as an island, thereby shortening the distance of the stream about six miles, and taking its course
immediately to the south with great velocity against the Mississippi bank at what is known as the cut-off of 1876. The result
was that the city of Vicksburg was left some miles away from
the main channel of the river, and the old channel in front of
the city was continually filled up, making the approach from
the river to the docks along the river difficult, if not impossible.
"Between 1878 and 1884 the United States constructed
about 10,700 feet of revetment along the banks of the Mississippi River at Delta Point, Louisiana, for the purpose of preventing the further erosion of that point. The revetment
consisted of willow mattresses weighted down by stones, and
were placed on said banks below high-water mark. The revetment was neither upon nor in contact with the claimants' lands.
The object of the construction was to prevent the navigable
channel of the river from receding farther from the city of
Vicksburg, which had been left some distance from the main
channel of the river by the cut-off of 1876, as aforesaid. The
revetment was repaired slightly in 1886 and 1889, and more
extensively in 1894, all of which work was paid for from time
to time out of the appropriations made therefor by Congress,
as found in 20 Stat. 363, 366; 21 Stat. 181, 470; 26 Stat. 450,
1116.
"In making the improvement aforesaid the defendants did
not recognize any right of property in the claimants in and to
the right alleged to be affected, and did not assume to take
private property in and by the construction of the revetment,
but proceeded in the exercise of a claimed right to improve the
navigation of the river.
"After the cut-off at De Soto Point in 1876 and the construction of the revetment, as aforesaid, the channel and cur-

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

rent of the Mississippi River were gradually directed toward
the lands of the claimants, situated about six miles below said
cut-off, and did, about the year 1882, reach said lands and
thereafter erode and overflow about 2,300 acres of their lands,
which overflow has ever since continued. About 400 acres of
their lands so eroded and overflowed was prior to the death
of said George M. Bedford, through whom the claimants claim
title, and about 900 acres of which were overflowed thereafter
and prior to said judicial sale, and the residue after said sale.
Of the lands so overflowed about 1,300 acres thereof were
cleared and in cultivation, of which about 700 acres were so
cleared prior to May 2, 1895.
"The damage to the claimants, and each of them, by reason
of the washing away of their lands during their respective
ownership, as aforesaid, is in excess of $3,000.
"The cause of the deflection of the river upon the claimants'
land was the cut-off, which shortened the distance of the stream
six miles, and thereby increased the velocity of the current,
and forced the current to turn, when it struck the Mississippi
bank, at an abrupt angle. The revetment did not change the
course of the river as it then existed, but operated to keep the
course of the river at that point as it then was.. If the revetment had not been built the cut-off would have continued to
widen toward the Louisiana bank, and the channel would have
continued to move in the same direction. With the, widening
of the cut-off and the shifting of the channel the angle of the
turn below the cut-off would have gradually become less abrupt,
and the deflection of the stream upon the claimants' land
would have grown less, and the consequent injury to the
claimants' land would have been decreased. To what extent
the injury would have been decreased is conjectural. The
injury done to the claimants' lands was an effect of natural
causes; the injury caused by the government was by interrupting the further progress of natural causes, i. e., the further
change in the course of the river, and is also conjectural."
The court deduced from the facts that the claimants were

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

not entitled to recover, and dismissed their petitions.
474.

192 U. S.

36 C.Cl.

Mr. John C. Chaney for appellants:
There is no difference between the taking of land by the
Government for a navigable waterway for steamboat traffic
for the public good and that of backing up water over a man's
land through a public dam constructed so as to work such a
result, as held in United States v. Lynah , 188 U. S. 445. The
revetment as well as the dam appropriates the land and deprives the owner of its use.
It was a public statute which authorized the dam, and it
was a public statute which authorized the building of the
revetment. The officers of the law derived their authority,
in both instances, from the same source. Gibson v. United
States, 166 U. S. 273; Gilman's case, 3 Wall. 713, distinguished,
and see the Great Falls case, 112 U. S. 645; Pumpelly v. Green
Bay Co., 13 Wall. 181; Mill's case, 46 Fed. Rep. 738.
The officers and agents of the United States took appellants'
lands under sanction of authority and the Government is bound
to make just compensation. The building and maintaining
the revetment was duly authorized by Congress, as follows:
20 Stat. 363, 366; 21 Stat. 181, 470; 26 Stat. 450, 1116. An
implied contract consequently arose to pay for the appropriation of this property. Great Falls case, supra; Kohl v.
United States, 91 U. S. 367.
The law will imply a promise to make the required compensation, where property, to which the Government asserts no
title, is taken, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property to be applied for public uses. Such an implication being
consistent with the constitutional duty of the Government, as
well as with common justice, the claimants' cause is one that
arises out of implied contract, within the meaning of the statute which confers jurisdiction upon the court of claims of
actions founded upon any contract, express or implied, with
the Government of the United States. Sanford v. United

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

States, 101 U. S. 341; Boone Co. v. Peterson, 98 U. S. 403;
United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 573; Barron v. Baltimore, 7
Pet. 243; Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84, and see Sinnickson
v. Johnson and Gardner v. Newburgh, cited in Pumpelly v.
Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 181; Angell on Water Courses, ยง 465a.
The power to take private property for public uses belongs
to every independent government. It is an incident of sovereignty, and does not require constitutional recognition.
This power is recognized by the Constitution of the United
States wherein, by its Fifth Amendment, it declared that
private property shall not be taken without just compensation. United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co., 160 U. S
668; High Bridge Lumber Co. v. United States, 37 U. S. App.
234; Barron, etc., v. Mayor of Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243; Hallister
v. Benedict Manufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 59; United States v.
Palmer, 128 U. S. 262; United States v. Berdan Fire & Ins. Co.,
156 U. S. 552; South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, 13; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 379.
It is clear that what was a valuable plantation has been
permanently swept away "as the necessary result of the work
which the government has undertaken." Pumpelly v. Green
Bay Co., supra, says this is a "taking" of appellants' lands for
public use, as stated in the opinion of the court in the Lynah
case. See also Angell on Water Courses, ยง 465a; Hooker v. New
Haven & N. Co., 14 Connecticut, 146; Rowe v. Granite Bridge
Co., 21 Pick. 344; Canal App. v. The People, 17 Wend. 604;
Lockland v. North M. R. R. Co., 31 Missouri, 180; Stevens v.
Prop'r of Middlesex Co., 12 Massachusetts, 466; Monongahela
Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S. 141; TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635.
Even if we are to restrict the ownership of appellants' lands
to mere riparian rights, it is unfair to appropriate them without compensation. By the Encyclopedias England makes
compensation where it takes such rights under its eminent
domain.
The theory of our Government is that the rights of the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for the United States.

192 U. S.

dividual when subordinated to the public necessities shall be
compensated for. Private property is subject to public uses
only when paid for. It matters not for what special purpose
private property may be taken, it is subject to the limitations
of payment cast by the Fifth Amendment.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt,with whom Mr. Special
Attorney William H. Button was on the brief, for the United
States:
This is a case sounding in tort and the Court of Claims has no
jurisdiction of an action sounding in tort. Schillinger v. United
States, 155 U. S. 161; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
The Great Falls case, 112 U. S. 645, was an implied contract
and the Langford case, 101 U. S. 341, was not. Appellant's
land was miles away from the revetment. The Government
has never parted with the original right to navigable waters.
Gibson case, 166 U. S. 272; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1;
Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367; Weber v. State Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois,
146 U. S. 387.
Upon the American Revolution all the rights of the Crown
and of Parliament vested in the several States, subject to the
rights surrendered to the National Government by the 'Constitution of the United States. In England these rights only
extended to waters in which the tide ebbs and flows. This
was the early doctrine of the, United States, but this court,
Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443, held that that test
was not applicable, and that the true test was whether or fiot
the waters were in fact navigable, and see Scranton v. Wheeler,
179 U. S. 141, and the Michigan case of Lorman v. Benson,
cited therein; Stockton v. Balt. & N. Y. R. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep.
9, 20; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 725; Cooley's Const.
Lim. p. 643.
The United States is not responsible for the causes of the
destruction of appellants' property but the injury is the effect
of natural causes.

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The United States did not undertake to appropriate any
property but simply to preserve the property intrusted to its
care, that is, the commercial interests of Vicksburg. Angell
on Water Courses (7th ed.), ยง 333; Barnes v. Marshall, 68
California, 569; Farquharsonv. Farquharson,3 Bligh Pr. N. S.
421; Gulf R. R. Co. v. Clark, 101 Fed. Rep. 678, and cases cited.
The damage is too remote to constitute a taking. TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 642; Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S. 269. The damages are not, and cannot be, proven,
but are conjectural and speculative and cannot be recovered.
Howard v. Stillwell Co., 139 U. S. 199; Central Trust Co. v.
Clark, 92 Fed. Rep. 293; Cahn v. Telegraph Co., 40 Fed. Rep.
40.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

There is no dispute about the power of the government to
construct the works which, it is claimed, caused the damage
to appellants' land. It was alleged by appellants that they
were constructed by the "United States in the execution of its
rights and powers, in and over said river and in pursuance of
its lawful control over the navigation of said river and for the
betterment and improvement thereof." And also that the
works were not constructed upon appellants' land, and their
immediate object was to prevent further erosion at De Soto
Point. In other words, the object of the works was to preserve
the conditions made by natural causes. By constructing
works to secure that object appellants contend there was
given to them a right to compensation. The contention asserts
a right in a riparian proprietor to the unrestrained operation
of natural causes, and that works of the government which
resist or disturb those causes, if injury result to riparian owners,
have the effect of taking private property for public uses within
the meaning of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. The consequences of the contention immediately challenge its soundness. What is its limit? Is only the
government so restrained? Why not as well riparian pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

prietors, are they also forbidden to resist natural causes,
whatever devastation by floods or erosion threaten their property? Why, for instance, would not, under the principle asserted, the appellants have had a cause of action against the
owner of the land at the cut-off if he had constructed'the revetment? And if the government is responsible to one landowner below the works, why not to all landowners? The
principle contended for seems necessarily wrong. Asserting
the rights of riparian property it might make that property
valueless. Conceding the power of the government over navigable rivers, it would make that power impossible of exercise,
or would prevent its exercise by the dread of an immeasurable
responsibility.
There is another principle by which the rights of riparian
property and the power of the government over navigable
rivers are better accommodated. It is illustrated in many
cases.
The Constitution provides that private property shall not
be taken without just compensation, but a distinction has
been made between damage and taking, and that distinction
must be observed in applying the constitutional provision.
An excellent illustration is found in Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S. 269. The distinction is there instructively explained, and other cases need not be cited. It is, however,
necessary to refer to United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445,
as it is especially relied upon by appellants. The facts are
stated in the following excerpt from the opinion:
"It appears from the fifth finding, as amended, that a large
portion of the land flooded was in its natural condition between high-water mark and low-water mark, and was subject
to overflow as the water passed from one stage to the other;
that this natural overflow was stopped by an embankment,
and in lieu thereof, by means of flood gates, the land was
flooded and drained at the will of the owner. From this it
is contended that the only result of the raising of the level of
the river by the government works was to take away the

BEDFORD v. UNITED STATES.
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

possibility of drainage. But findings nine and ten show that,
both by seepage and percolation through the embankment
and an actual flowing upon the plantation above the obstruction, the water has been raised in the plantation about eighteen
inches, that it is impossible to remove this overflow of water,
and, 'as a consequence, the property has become an irreclaimable bog, unfit for the purpose of rice culture or any other known
agriculture, and deprived of all value. It is clear from these
findings that what was a valuable rice plantation has been
permanently flooded, wholly destroyed in value, and turned
into an irreclaimable bog; and this as the necessary result of
the work which the government has undertaken."
The question was asked: "Does this amount to a taking?"
To which it was replied: "The case of Pumpelly v. Green Bay
Co., 13 Wall. 166, answers this question in the affirmative."
And further: "The Green Bay Company, as authorized by
statute, constructed a dam across Fox River, by means of
which the land of Pumpelly was overflowed and. rendered
practically useless to him. There, as here, no proceedings had
been taken to formally condemn the land." In both cases,
therefore, it was said that there was an actual invasion and
appropriation of land as distinguished from consequential
damage. In the case at bar the damage was strictly consequential. It was the result of the action of the river through
a course of years. The case at bar, therefore, is distinguishable from the Lynah case in the cause and manner of the injury. In the Lynah case the works were constructed in the
bed of the river, obstructed the natural flow of its water, and
were held to have caused, as a direct consequence, the overflow
of Lynah's plantation. In the case at bar the works were
constructed along the banks of the river and their effect was
to resist erosion of the banks by the waters of the river. There
was no other interference with natural conditions. Therefore,
the damage to appellants' land, if it can be assigned to the
works at all, was but an incidental consequence of them.

I
VOL. OXOII-15

Judgment affirmed.

