UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA & ORE. LAND CO. 355
192 U. S.

UNITED

Opinion of the Court.

STATES v. CALIFORNIA
LAND COMPANY.

AND OREGON

CALIFORNIA AND OREGON LAND COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Nos. 4, 5. Argued MIarch 14,17, 1902. Reargued December 9,10,1902.
5, 6, 7,1904. Decided February 1, 1904.

Reargued January

A decree rendered upon a bill in equity brought under the Act of March 2,
1889, 25 Stat. 850, to have patents for land declared void as forfeited and
to establish the title of the United States to the land, is a bar to a subsequent bill brought against the same defendants to recover the same land
on the ground that it was excepted from the original grant as an Indian
reservation.
As a general rule, a party asserting a right by suit is barred by a judgment
or decree upon the merits as to all media concludendi or grounds for asserting the right, known when the suit was brought.
The general rule is, where a bill is dismissed, to dismiss the cross bill also.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.M'. C arles W. Rusell Special Assistant Attorney General,
for the United States.
.Z6'. John -. Dillon, and frM.Aldis B. Browne, with whom
-Mr.Alexander Bnitton was on the brief, for the California
and Oregon Land Company.
Mr. Justice HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross appeals from a decree of the United States
Circuit Court. The bill was brought for the purpose of having certain patents of land issued by the United States declared void. These patents were issued on April 21, 1871,
December 8, 1871, and April 2, 1873, to the Oregon Central
Military Road Company, under an act of Congress of July 2,
1864, 13 Stat. 355, granting lands to the State of Oregon to
aid in the construction of a wagon road, and in pursuance of

OCTOBER TERI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

a grant of the same lands by the State to the Road Company
on October 24, 1864. The California and Oregon Land Company claims through mesne conveyances from the patentee.
The ground of the bill, so far as the argument before us
is concerned, is that the lands in controversy were within
the Klamath Indian Reservation, and therefore were "lands
heretofore reserved to the United' States" within the proviso reserving such lands in the grant of July 2, 1864. As
our decision is upon grounds independent of this question, it
is unnecessary to state the legislation and facts upon which
that - controversy turns.
One of the pleas of the Land Company is that on August
30, 1889, the United States filed an earlier bill in the United
States Circuit Court in respect of these same lands, praying,
like the present one, that the patents be declared void; that
the Land Company pleaded matters showing that the patents
were valid, and also that it was a purchaser for valuable consideration without notice; and that on March 29, 1893, a final
decree was entered finding the facts to be as alleged by the
Land Company, including the allegation that the Land Company was a bona fide purchaser for value, and dismissing the
bill on that ground. The Land Company also filed a cross
bill in the present suit to enjoin the allotments of said lands
and the issue of patents for the same to the Indians. The
cross bill was demurred to.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, adjudged the
plea to be bad, and entered a decree declaring the patents
void. We have to deal only with the before-mentioned plea.
The former bill was brought in pursuance of the act of
Congress of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 850. This act recited that
the Oregon legislature had memorialized Congress and had
alleged that certain of the wagon roads in the State were not
completed within the time required by the grants of the United
States, and therefore enacted that suits should be brought in
the United States Circuit Court against all claimants of any
interest under the grant of 1864, and certain others, "to determine the questions of the seasonable and proper completion
of said roads in accordance with the terms of the granting

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA & ORE. LAND CO. 357
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acts. . . . The legal effect of the several certificates of
the Governors of the State of Oregon of the completion of
said roads, and the right of resumption of such granted lands
by the United States." The court was authorized to render
judgment of forfeiture "saving and preserving the rights of
all bona ftde purchasers of either of said grants or of any portion of said grants for a valuable consideration, if any such
there be. Said suit or suits shall be tried and adjudicated
in like manner and by the same principles, and rules of jurisprudence as other suits in equity are tlerein tried." (The
act of March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, also confirmed the title of
bona fide purchasers.)
By § 2, "The State of Oregon, and any person or corporation
claiming any interest under or through the grants aforesaid
in the lands to be affected by said suit or suits, and whether
made a party thereto or not, may intervene therein by sworn
petition to defend his interest therein, as against the United
States, or against each other, and affecting the said question
of forfeiture, and may, upon such petition for intervention,
also put in issue and have adjudicated and determined any
other question, whether of law or of fact, which may be in
dispute between said intervener and the United States, and
affecting the right or title to any part of the lands claimed
to have been embraced within the grants. . . . Should
the lands embraced within said grants or either of them or
any portion thereof, be declared forfeited by the final determination of said suit .or suits, the same shall be immediately restored to the public domain and become subject to
disposal under the general land laws; and should the final
determination of said suit or suits maintain the right of the
aforesaid wagon-road grantees or their assigns to the lands
embraced in said grants, the Secretary of the Interior shall
forthwith adjust said grants in accordance with such determination, and shall cause patents to be issued for the lands
inuring to said grantees under said wagon-road grants and
which have been heretofore unpatented."
On the general principles of our law it is tolerably plain
that the decree in the suit under the foregoing statute, would

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

192 U. S.

be a bar. The parties, the subject matter and the relief sought
all were the same. It is said, to be sure, that the United States
now is suing in a different character from that in which it
brought the former suit. There it sued for itself-here it sues
on behalf of the Indians. But that is not true in any sense
having legal significance. It would be true of a suit by an
executor as compared with a suit by the same person on his
own behalf. But that is because in theory of law the executor continues the personaof the testator, and therefore is a (1ifferent person from the natural man who fills the office. This
is recognized in Leggott v. Great -orthern Biy., 1 Q. B. D. 599,
606, cited for the United States. Here the plaintiff is the same
person that brought the former bill, whatever the difference of
the interest intended to be asserted. See lVerlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S. 390,400, 401. The best that can be said, apart
from the act just quoted, to distinguish the two suits, is that
now the United States puts forward a new ground for its
prayer. Formerly it sought to avoid the patents by way of
forfeiture. Now it seeks the same conclusion by a different
means, that is to say, by evidence that the lands originally
were excepted from the grant. But in this, as in the former
suit, it seeks to establish its own title to the fee.
It may be the law in Scotland that a judgment is not a bar
to a second attempt to reach the same result by a different medium coneludendi. P]wsphate Sewage Co. v. 3Iolleson, 5 Ct.
of Sess. Cas. (4th Ser.) 1125, 1139; although in the same case
on appeal Lord Blackburn seemed to doubt the proposition if
the facts were known before. S. C., 4 App. Cas. 801, 820.
But the whole tendency of our decisions is to require a plaintiff to try his whole cause of action and his whole case at one
time. He cannot even split up his claim, Fetter v. Beale, 1
Salk. 11 ; T ras v. Hartford & New Haven Rail'oad,2 Allen,
331; Freeman, Judgments, 4th ed. §§ 238, 241 ; and, afortiori,
he cannot divide the grounds of recovery. Unless the statute
of 1889 put the former suit upon a peculiar footing, the United
States was bound then to bring forward all the grounds it had
for declaring the patents void, and when the bill was dismissed
was barred as to all by the decree. Werlein v. lVew Orleans

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA & ORE. LAND CO. 359
192 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

177 U. S. 390; Bienville TFater Svupply Co. v. xrobile, 186 U. S.
212, 216, 217; Hoseason v. Keegen, 178 Massachusetts, 247;
Wildman v. Wildman, 70 Connecticut, 700, 710; Sayers v.
Auditor General, 124 Michigan, 259; Foster v. Hinson, 76
Iowa, 714, 720; State v. Brown, 64: Maryland, 199; Boyd v.
Boyd, 53 App. Div. N. Y. 152, 159; Shafer v. Scuddy, 14 La.
Ann. 575; _enderson, v. Henderson, 3 Hare, 100, 115.
The question then is narrowed to whether the statute established a special and peculiar rule of procedure for the cases to
be brought under it. No doubt it is true that the ground of
recovery that was prominent in the mind of Congress was an
alleged forfeiture of the grant, and therefore not unnaturally,
in § 2, the result of a forfeiture is stated. But a forfeiture was
not the only ground on which the United States might have
prevailed. All claimants of any interest were at liberty to
intervene and to have any other question affecting the title
settled, and if any such other question had been raised and resolved in favorof the United States, of course the same result
would have followed. But it cannot be supposed that the United States was not at liberty to raise the same issues which defendants and interveners were given the right to raise. There
is no reason for such a discrimination, and its right was admitted at the argument. But if the United States was at liberty
to state all its grounds for claiming the land, it was bound to
do so on "the same principles and rules of jurisprudence as
other suits in equity are therein tried," by which principles and
rules, as has been shown, it was expressly enacted that the case
should be tried. So far from establishing a special rule, the
act shows an intent to settle the title once for all. It was
dealing with several grants which might present different
cases. It stated in terms that the suits should be brought to
determine not merely the question of forfeiture, but "the
right of resumption of such granted lands by the United
States," § 1, and it provided that if the suits should maintain the right of the wagon-road grantees or their assigns to
the lands embraced in said grants, the Secretary of the Interior should adjust the grants in accordance with the determination and issue patents for the lands to which the grantees

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
THE CHIEF JUsTIcE, HARL&.N and BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

192 U. S.

were entitled and which had not been patented. See also the
language of the act of March 2, 1896, § 1, 29 Stat. 42. It
would not be consistent with the good faith of the United
States to attribute to it the intent to keep a concealed weapon
in reserve in case these suits should fail. On the face of the
act it seems to us apparent that these suits were intended to
quiet or to end the title of the wagon-road grantees.
As the bill must be dismissed there seems to be no reason
why the cross bill should not be dismissed according to the
general rule in such cases. Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108.
It is true that the cross bill is not merely in aid of the defence and that relief has been given upon a cross bill in such
a case, notwithstanding the dismissal of the bill. Holgate v.
Eaton, 116 U. S. 33, 42; Blythe v. Hinckley, 84 Fed. Rep.
228, 236, 237. But apart from any other questions it may be
presumed that after this decision no action will be attempted
based on a denial of the Land Company's title to the fee.
Decree reveirsed and case remanded to the Circuit Court with
instructionsto enter a decree dismissing the bill and cross
bill.
MR.CHIEF JUsTICE FULLER, with whom concurred
TICE HARLAN and M . JusTio BRowN, dissenting.

MR.Jus-

It will be assumed that the lands in controversy had been
reserved for the Indians prior to the taking effect of the grant,
"except so far as it may be necessary to locate the route of
said road through the same, in which case the right of way is
granted."
The act of 1866 made provision for supplying deficiencies
"occasioned by any lands sold or reserved, or to which the
rights of preemption or homestead have attached, or which
for any reason were not subject to said grant."
March 2, 1889, Congress directed the Attorney General to
cause a suit or suits to be brought against all persons, firms
and corporations claiming interests in lands granted to the
State of Oregon, by three enumerated acts of Congress, including that under consideration: "To determine the ques-

UNITED STATES v. CALIFORNIA & ORE. LAND CO. 361
THE CHmF JUsmmc,

192 U. S.

H~imA

and BROWN , JJ., dissenting.

ions of the seaonable and proper completion of said roads in
accordance with the terms of the granting acts, either in
whole or in part, the legal effect of the several certificates of
the governors of the State of Oregon of the completion of said
roads, and the right of resumption of such granted lands by
the United States, and to obtain judgments, which the court
is hereby authorized to render, declaring forfeited to the
United States, all of such lands as are coterminous with the
part or parts of either of said wagon roads which were not
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the granting acts, and setting aside patents which have issued for any
such lands, saving and preserving the rights of all bona JNd
purchasers of either of said grants or of any portion of
said grants for a valuable consideration, if any such there
be.

.

.

.

By the second section of the act it was provided that the
State or any person or corporation claiming under the grant
might intervene and defend his interest therein, and might
"also put in issue and have adjudicated and determined any
other question, whether of law or of fact, which may be in
dispute between said intervener and the United States, and
affecting the right or title to any part of the lands claimed to
have been embraced within the grants of land by the United
States to or for either of said wagon roads. Should the lands
embraced within said grants or either of them or any portion
thereof, be declared forfeited by the final determination of
said suit or suits, the same shall be immediately restored to
the public domain and become subject to disposal under the
general land laws; and should the final determination of said
suit or suits maintain the right of the aforesaid wagon road
grantees or their assigns to the land embraced in said grants,
the Secretary of the Interior shall forthwith adjust said grants
in accordance with such determination," etc.
The act related to three wagon road grants, only one of
which was involved in this case. This bill sought a forfeiture
of the entire grant for reasons stated, and no other matter
was put in issue. The bill covered the lands in the reservation and many thousands of acres besides. It seems to me

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
THE CHIEF JusTicE, HARLAN and BnowN, JJ., dissenting.

192 U. S.

clear that Congress did not intend that the United States
should ask a forfeiture and at the same time litigate exceptions from the grant. The second section is wholly inconsistent with such a theory. The issue was a single issue and
defendants did not seek to have it expanded. The suit was
decided in favor of defendants, 148 U. S. 31, and the present
bill having been filed in respect of the lands of the Indian
reservation it is now contended that the former decree is a
bar to its prosecution.
I do not think so. The former case sought a forfeiture of
the entire grant. This bill, accepting the conclusion that
there could be no forfeiture, simply sought relief as to particular lands which had not been embraced in the grant and did
not pass thereby but which had been patented in error. Conceding that Congress may pass title subject to Indian occupancy, it
did not do so; but these lands were reserved from the grant,
while in terms the right of way through the reservation was
granted. Had the decree in the prior case been for the government, this right of way would have been declared forfeited
with other lands included in the grant, but as the case turned
out the right of way passed while the reservation remained
unaffected. The cause of action in this suit is entirely different and governed by entirely different considerations from
the cause of action in the prior suit. And I think the decree
in the former suit operates as an estoppel only as to the point
or question actually litigated and determined.
There is no hardship involved in this view, as, while the
United States were shut up to the question of forfeiture, defendants were permitted to raise any questions they chose,
and did not see fit to bring any other into the case.

My brothers

HARLAN

and BRowx concur in this dissent.

