CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
215

229

Syllabus.

orders by the naval authorizes to proceed directly astern
of the YP 249; for all practieal purposes she was as firmly
fastened to the stern of the YP 249 as if she had been in
tow.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and the
cause remanded to the district court with direction to
proceed with consideration of the case on the merits.
CATLIN ET A., TRUSTEES, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 419.

Argued February 1, 2, 1945.-Decided February 26, 1945.

1. In a proceeding instituted by a petition in the District Court for
the condemnation of land under the War Purposes Act of 1917, a
"judgment" entered upon a declaration of taking filed pursuant to
the Declaration of Taking Act of 1931, and a subsequent order denying the landowner's motion to vacate the judgment and to dismiss
the petition, held not "final decisions" under § 128 of the Judicial
Code and therefore not appealable. P. 232.
2. The right of the landowner to challenge the validity of the taking,
for nonconformity with the prescribed statutory purposes, was not
abrogated by the Declaration of Taking Act; but the right of appeal
in this relation may be exercised only when final judgment, disposing
of the cause in its entirety, has been rendered. P. 240.
142 F. 2d 781, affirmed.
v. Blessing, 105 U. S. 626, 630: "Nor is the term 'tort,' when used in
reference to admiralty jurisdiction, confined to wrongs or injuries
committed by direct force, but it includes wrongs suffered in consequence of the negligence or malfeasance of others, where the remedy
at common-law is by an action on the case." See also Eastern TransportationCo. v. United States, 272 U. S. 675; In re Fassett, 142 U. S.
479, 485; Philadelphia, W. & B. R. Co. v. Philadelphia & H. de G.
Towboat Co., 23 How. 209, 215-16; The Lyndhurst, 92 F. 681; The
Kronprinzessin Cecilie, 192 F. 27; The Campania, 203 F. 855; The
Washington Irving, 250 F. 797; The Luke, 19 F. 2d 923, aff'd, 19 F. 2d
925; Coastwise TransportationCorp. v. United States, 43 F. 2d 401;
The J. C. Hart, 43 F. 2d 566; The Favorita,43 F. 2d 569.
637582--46-

19

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 696, to review the dismissal of an

appeal from a judgment and order of the District Court
in a condemnation proceeding.
Messrs. Thomas S. McPheeters, Henry Davis and
George D. Burroughs submitted for petitioners.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Messrs. J. Edward Williams and Vernon L. Wilkinson
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The proceeding is for the condemnation of land in Madison County, Illinois, under the War Purposes Act of 1917.1
The question for review is whether orders entered in the
1Act of August 18, 1890, 26 Stat. 316, as amended by the Acts of
July 2, 1917, 40 Stat. 241, and April 11, 1918, 40 Stat. 518, 50 U. S. C.

§ 171. The Act provides:
"That hereafter the Secretary of War may cause proceedings to be
instituted in the name of the United States, in any court having jurisdiction of such proceedings for the acquirement by condemnation of
any land, temporary use thereof or other interest therein, or right
pertaining thereto, needed for the site, location, construction, or prosecution of works for fortifications, coast defenses, military training
camps, and for the construction and operation of plants for the production of nitrate and other compounds and the manufacture of explosives and other munitions of war and for the development and transmission of power for the operations of such plants; such proceedings
to be prosecuted in accordance with the laws relating to suits for the
condemnation of property of the States wherein the proceedings may
be instituted . . . And provided further, That when such property is
acquired in time of war, or the imminence thereof, upon the filing of the
petition for the condemnation of any land, temporary use thereof or
other interest therein or right pertaining thereto to be acquired for any
of the purposes aforesaid, immediate possession thereof may be taken
to the extent of the interest to be acquired and the lands may be occupied and used for military purposes . . ." (Emphasis added.)

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

231

Opinion of the Court.

course of the proceedings are appealable as "final de-.
cisions" within the meaning of § 128 of the Judicial Code,
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 225 (a).2
The petition for condemnation was filed in the District
Court March 31, 1942. The same day an order for immediate possession was entered ex parte. On November
12, 1942, pursuant to the Declaration of Taking Act of
February 26, 1931, ' the Secretary of War filed a declaration and deposited in court $43,579.00 as the estimated
compensation for Tract ED-7, to which petitioners assert
ownership as trustees. The court thereupon entered
"judgment," likewise ex parte, decreeing that title had
vested in the United States upon the filing of the declaration and making of the deposit, also declaring the right of
just compensation "now vested in the persons entitled
thereto," and holding the cause open for further "orders,
judgments and decrees."
Thereafter, on August 2, 1943, an order for service of
process by publication was entered, and in October following petitioners moved to vacate the "judgment" and
to dismiss the petition as to Tract ED-7. After this the
Government amended its petition 4 and petitioners filed
2 Section

128 is in part as follows:

"The circuit courts of appeal shall have appellate jurisdiction to
review by appeal final decisions"First. In the district courts, in all cases save where a direct review
of the decision may be had in the Supreme Court under section 345 of
this title."
8 46 Stat. 1421, 40 U. S. C. §§ 258a-258e. Material portions of the
statute are set forth in the text of this opinion and the notes.
'Petitioners attacked the original petition for failure to set forth
(1) the purpose of the acquisition or that it was for any purpose authorized by the act; (2) that the Secretary of War had found that
the land was needed or (3) had requested the Attorney General to
institute the proceeding to acquire it for such a purpose. Considering
these objections jurisdictional, petitioners regard "all further proceed-

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

an amended motion to vacate and dismiss,5 which the
court denied. From this order and the order entering the
"judgment" on the declaration of taking, petitioners appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals held the orders not
final decisions within § 128 and dismissed the appeal. 142
F. 2d 781. We granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 696, in order to
resolve conflict upon this question among several Circuit
Courts of Appeals.'
We think the judgment was right. Petitioners' motions
raised issues grounded in contentions that the taking was
7
not for a purpose authorized by the War Purposes Act.
ings based upon the said petition" as "ineffective," including the filing
of the first declaration of taking and the. "judgment" entered pursuant
to it.
The amendment added a new paragraph to the petition stating
the lands were being taken for purposes described in the language
of the statute and incorporated in the petition the letter of the Secretary of War requesting the Attorney General to institute the proceedings to acquire the land "for use in the establishment of the Granite City Engineer Branch Depot." This is the specific purpose which
petitioners say does not come within any set forth in the statute,
for which see note 1.
5The amended motion urged that the amendment of the petition,
by incorporating the Secretary's statement of intended use for an
engineer depot, caused the petition to show on its face that the use
was not within those authorized by the act. Petitioners assert the
amendment "came too late to validate" the "judgment."
6Dade County v. United States, 142 F. 2d 230 (C. C. A. 5), accords
with the decision in this case. Contrary decisions were rendered in
City of Oakland v. United States, 124 F. 2d 959 (C. C. A. 9), cert.
denied, 316 U. S. 679; United States v. 24322 Acres of Land, 129 F.
2d 678 (C. C. A. 2), cert. denied, 317 U. S.698; Puerto Rico R. Co. v.
United States, 131 F. 2d 491 (C. C. A. 2).
Under the comparable provision of the 1929 act applicable in the
District of Columbia, where special appeal may be allowed upon
interlocutory orders, D. C. Code (1940) § 17-101, compare Lee v.
United States, 58 F. 2d 879, with Keyes v. United States, 119 F. 2d
444.
7 See notes 1, 4 and 5.

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

233

Opinion of the Court.

Accordingly they urged that neither petition stated a
cause of action, the court acquired no jurisdiction of the
cause or to enter the order relating to title, and it was
error to deny the motion to vacate and to dismiss. Since
the issue here is whether the orders are final, for purposes
of appeal, we assume, though we do not decide, that the
substantive issues have sufficient merit to warrant determination upon review. Even so, we think petitioners
have mistaken their remedy.
Their right to appeal rests upon § 128 of the Judicial
Code. This limits review to "final decisions" in the District Court. A "final decision" generally is one which
ends the litigation on the merits and leaves nothing for the
court to do but execute the judgment. St. Louis, I. M. &
S. R. Co. v. Southern Express Co., 108 U. S. 24, 28. Hence,
ordinarily in condemnation proceedings appellate review
may be had only upon an order or judgment disposing
of the whole case, and adjudicating all rights, including
ownership and just compensation, as well as the right
to take the property. This has been the repeated holding
of decisions here. The rule applies to review by this
Court of judgments of state courts, in advance of determination of just compensation, although by local statute
"judgments of condemnation," i. e., of the right to condemn particular property, are reviewable before compensation is found and awarded. Wick v. Superior Court,
278 U. S. 574, 575; Public Service Co. v. Lebanon, 305
U. S. 558, 671; cf. Dieckmann v. United States, 88 F. 2d
902. The foundation of this policy is not in merely technical conceptions of "finality." It is one against pieceSLuxton v. North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337, 341; Southern

R. Co. v. Postal Telegraph Co., 179 U. S. 641, 643; Grays Harbor
Co. v. Coats-Fordney Co., 243 U. S. 251, 256; Washington ex rel.
McPherson Bros. Co. v. Superior Court, 274 U. S. 726; Ornstein v.
Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 284 U. S. 572; cf. Collins v. Miller, 252
U. S. 364, 370; United States v. Florian,312 U. S. 656.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

meal litigation. "The case is not to be sent up in fragments. .. ." Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 147
U. S. 337, 341. Reasons other than conservation of judicial energy sustain the limitation. One is elimination
of delays caused by interlocutory appeals.
The rule applies to proceedings under the War Purposes
Act of 1917. That act does not purport to change or
depart from the generally prevailing rule concerning appeals in condemnation proceedings. It is an amended
version of the 1890 act, under which from its enactment to
now that rule has been applied, except in the three decisions of Circuit Courts of Appeals reaching the contrary
result, where, however, the Declaration of Taking Act of
1931 also was involved." The 1917 act purports to authorize no judgment except one "for the acquirement by
condemnation of any land," etc., for the purposes specified
or, necessarily, one finally denying this. The provision
for the proceedings "to be prosecuted in accordance with
the laws relating to suits for the condemnation of property of the States wherein the proceedings may be instituted . . ." had no purpose to make the right of appeal
in such proceedings depend upon and vary with the local
procedure in this respect, cf. Wick v. Superior Court,
supra; Public Service Co. v. Lebanon, supra, or to incor9No case has been found in which appeal was taken, or attempted
to be taken, under the 1890 and 1917 acts, from an order other than
the final judgment disposing of all issues raised in the proceeding, including compensation. The uniform practice under those acts appears
to have been therefore to confine appeals to such orders. Only three
cases appear to have sought to raise, in appeals from final judgments,
the .question of the right to condemn. See Forbes v. United States,
268 F. 273; Chappell v. United States, 81 F. 764, 160 U. S. 499; Henry
v. United States, 46 F. 2d 640. Numerous other cases involved appeals
on questions affecting compensation without raising question concerning title or authority to condemn.
10 Cf. note 6 and text beginning with the paragraph following note 12.

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

porate local ideas of "finality" in the application of § 128
to such suits. The language may be applied in other ways
without introducing so much lack of uniformity into the
application of § 128, if indeed the quoted provision has not
been largely nullified by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in all respects concerning appeals.1
Furthermore, the 1917 act contemplated emergency
action, to the extent that upon the filing of the petition immediate possession might be taken and the lands occupied
"for military purposes" during war "or the imminence
thereof." This purpose, it seems clear, would be largely
defeated, if entry must be deferred until specific challenges
to jurisdiction and the sufficiency of the petition axe determined seriatim, not only by ruling of the trial court
but by separate appeals from each ruling which, if sustained, 2 would end the litigation, but if lacking in merit
could only prolong it. We find neither in the language
nor in the purposes of the 1917 act an intent to authorize
departure from the general course of applying § 128 in
condemnation proceedings.
Indeed, we do not understand petitioners to urge that
the 1917 act without more accomplishes the departure.
They say rather that it does so when used in conjunction
with the Declaration of Taking Act of 1931. It is the
"judgment upon a declaration of taking" and the subsequent order denying their motion to vacate this "judgment" and to dismiss the proceedings which they contend
are "final decisions" within § 128 and therefore appealable.
It is "judgments" of this character which the decisions of
Circuit Courts of Appeals, upon which petitioners rely,
- "In proceedings for condemnation of property under the power
of eminent domain, these rules govern appeals but are not otherwise
applicable." Rule 81 (a) (7).
12 See United States v. Carey, 143 F. 2d 445; United States v. Marin,
136 F. 2d 388.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

have involved. One of them relied expressly upon the
1931 act as being intended "to sever the taking of title and
possession from controversies as to valuation, and to provide a procedure whereby the United States might be
speedily and conclusively vested with title and possession"
and therefore as having a "final and immediate effect on
property rights" which "obviously should be reviewable
at once, without the necessity of awaiting the outcome of
long drawn out controversies as to valuation." Puerto
Rico R. Co. v. United States, 131 F. 2d 491,494. The reason stated might afford ground for Congress to provide a
special appeal. However, we do not think the reason
accords with the statute's provisions or their effect. Consequently it gives no ground for believing that Congress
has provided a separate appeal.
We dispose shortly of the motion, or that part of it,
which was directed at dismissal of the proceedings, in so far
as it may require treatment separately from the motion
to vacate the "judgment," if it does so at all. Had this
motion been granted and judgment of dismissal been
entered, clearly there would have been an end of the litigation and appeal would lie within § 128. United States
v. Carey, 143 F. 2d 445; United States v. Marin, 136 F.
2d 388. But denial of a motion to dismiss, even when the
motion is based upon jurisdictional grounds, is not immediately reviewable. Cf. Roche v. EvaporatedMilk Assn.,
319 U. S. 21. See also Dieckmann v. United States, 88 F.
2d 902. Certainly this is true whenever the question
may be saved for disposition upon review of final judgment disposing of all issues involved in the litigation or
in some other adequate manner. As will appear, we think
such a remedy is available in this case.
The "judgment" and the order denying the motion to
vacate it stand no better. The 1931 act, like that of 1917,
contains no language purporting to change the general
rule relating to appeals in condemnation proceedings.

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

237

Opinion of the Court.

Section 1, which is the basic section, makes no express
reference to appeals." Section 2 implies the contrary efI Because of its importance, the Section is set forth here in full,
except for the concluding paragraph which is quoted in note 14:
"An Act To expedite the construction of public buildings and works
outside of the District of Columbia by enabling possession and title
of sites to be taken in advance of final judgment in proceedings for
the acquisition thereof under the power of eminent domain.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That in any proceeding in any court of the United States outside of the District of
Columbia which has been or may be instituted by and in the name
of and under the authority of the United States for the acquisition
of any land or easement or right of way in land for the public use,
the petitioner may file in the cause, with the petition or at any time
before judgment, a declarationof taking signed by the authority empowered by law to acquire the lands described in the petition, declaring that said lands are thereby taken for the use of the United States.
Said declaration of taking shall contain or have annexed thereto"(1) A statement of the authority under which and the public use
for which said lands are taken.
"(2) A description of the lands taken sufficient for the identification thereof.
"(3) A statement of the estate or interest in said lands taken for
said public use.
"(4) A plan showing the lands taken.
"(5) A statement of the sum of money estimated by said acquiring
authority to be just compensation for the land taken.
"Upon the filing said declaration of taking and of the deposit in
the court, to the use of the persons entitled thereto, of the amount
of the estimated compensation stated in said declaration, title to the
said lands in fee simple absolute, or such less estate or interest therein
as is specified in said declaration, shall vest in the United States of
America, and said lands shall be deemed to be condemned and taken
for the use of the United States, and the right to just compensation
for the same shall vest in the persons entitled thereto; and said compensation shall be ascertained and awarded in said proceeding and
established by judgment therein, and the said judgment shall include, as part of the just compensation awarded, interest at the rate
of 6 per centum per annum on the amount finally awarded as the
value of the property as of the date of taking, from said date to the

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

fect. It provides: "No appeal in any such cause nor any
bond or undertaking given therein shall operate to prevent or delay the vesting of title to such lands in the
United States." While the section does not in terms deny
the right of appeal contended for, neither does it confer
that right. The possibility of delaying or preventing the
vesting of title by appeals was explicitly in the mind of
Congress, when it included this section. If it had thought
granting an earlier appeal than the existing procedure
allowed, upon the severed issue of the right to take the
property, would expedite the taking or the vesting of title
or the proceedings in any other manner, slight additional
words would have made provision for such an appeal.
The omission, and the clear import of the language used,
-are against the implication that separate appeals were
to be allowed.
This seems reinforced by § 4. -It makes the right to take
possession and title "in advance of final judgment" additional to other rights, powers or authority conferred by
federal or local law, and expressly states that this right
"shall not be construed as abrogating, limiting, or modifying any such right, power, or authority." One of the
rights of the Government under preexisting federal law
was the right not to have the proceeding, or the taking of
date of payment; but interest shall not be allowed on so much thereof
as shall have, been paid into the court. No sum so paid into the court
shall be charged with commissions or poundage.
"Upon the application of the parties in interest, the court may
order that the money deposited in the court, or any part thereof,
be paid forthwith for or on account of the just compensation to be
awarded in said proceeding. If the compensation finally awarded
in respect of said lands, or any parcel thereof, shall exceed the amount
of the money so received by any person entitled, the court shall enter
judgment against the United States for the amount of the deficiency."
(Emphasis added.)

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

possession,' delayed by separate appeals over issues of
title or taking." Its right was rather to have these issues
determined with others in the final judgment dispositive
of the whole cause. This right, we think, was guarded
by § 4 against being construed as having been abrogated,
limited or modified, by virtue of the additional right conferred "to take possession and title in advance of final
judgment." (Emphasis added.) Other provisions of the
statute as will appear, support the same conclusion.
Moreover, the statute does not purport in terms to authorize such a "judgment" as was entered in this cause
or to make its entry the event upon which title is changed,
if so summary a procedure could be valid. The "judgment" apparently was entered ex parte, prior to service
of process or publication of notice. Cf. Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714. By the terms of § 1, "Upon the filing said
declaration of taking [in the condemnation proceeding]
and of the deposit in the court . . . title . . . shall vest
in the United States . . . and said lands shall be deemed
to be condemned and taken for the use of the United
States, and the right to just compensation for the same
shall vest in the persons entitled thereto; and said compensation shall be ascertained and awarded in said proceeding and established by judgment therein
14 This was authorized by the Act of 1917, cf. note 1 above, as well
as by the Act of 1931 in the concluding paragraph of § 1, which is as
follows:
"Upon the filing of a declaration of taking, the court shall have
power to fix the time within which and the terms upon which the
parties in possession shall be required to surrender possession. to the
petitioner. The court shall have power to make such orders in res.pect of encumbrances, liens, rents, taxes, assessments, insurance, and
other charges, if any, as shall be just and equitable."
16"See note 9.

. 6 See note 13 for the complete text.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

The exact effect of these provisions is not entirely clear.
But we find nothing in the statute to indicate that Congress intended to deprive the owner of all opportunity to
challenge the validity of the taking for departure from the
statutory limits. Such a purpose cannot be implied from
the provision for transfer of title itself and the fact that the
specific references to the final judgment in § 1 speak only
concerning compensation. Those references, we think,
are counterbalanced by other provisions and considerations, in so far as they may be thought to exclude matters
of title from the final adjudication.
We think the purpose was to leave intact the owner's
remedy existing before the statute was adopted. For one
thing, the statute is not an independent one for condemnation. It provides for no new condemnation proceeding.
It merely affords steps ancillary or incidental to suits
brought under other statutes; and was so used in this case
in conjunction with the suit brought under the Act of
1917. Its declared purpose is to expedite, in the cases to
which it applies, the construction of public buildings and
works "by enabling possession and title of sites to be taken
in advance of final judgment in proceedings for the acquisition thereof under the power of eminent domain," (emphasis added) as the title states, and it applies to "any proceeding . . . instituted . . . under the authority of the

United States for the acquisition of any land . . . for the
public use . . ." § 1. The procedure clearly is ancillary
to the main condemnation proceeding, cf. United States v.
17,280 Acres of Land, 47 F. Supp. 267, 269, is intended to
dovetail with it and by § 4 is declared expressly to provide
rights which are to be "in addition to" preexisting rights
and are not to "be construed as abrogating, limiting, or
modifying" them. This provision, inserted primarily to
safeguard the Government's interest, is not expressly so
limited; and we think it may be applied also to safeguard

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

the owner's preexisting rights where doing this will not
be in essential conflict with the additional rights validly
conferred on the Government. This would be done by
preserving his preexisting right of appeal.
While the language and the wording of the act are not
wholly free from doubt, we see no necessary inconsistency
between the provisions for transfer of title upon filing of
the declaration and making of the deposit and at the same
time preserving the owner's preexisting right to question
the validity of the taking as not being for a purpose authorized by the statute under which the main proceeding
is brought. That result may be reached if the statute is
construed to confer upon the Government, upon occurrence of the events specified, only a defeasible title in cases
where an issue concerning the validity of the taking arises.
So to construe the act would accomplish fully the purposes
for which it was adopted in the large number of cases
where no such issue is made. In others this would go far
toward doing so, for not all such issues will be followed
through to final decision or, if so followed, will turn out
adversely to the Government. The alternative construction, that title passes irrevocably, leaving the owner no
opportunity to question the taking's validity or one for
which the only remedy would be to accept the compensation which would be just if the taking were valid, would
raise serious question concerning the statute's validity.
In any event we think it would run counter to what reasonable construction requires.
Some stress is placed upon the provisions of §§ 3 and 5
relating to irrevocable commitment of the United States
to pay the amount ultimately to be awarded,'17 together
1 Section 3 is set forth in note 18. Section 5 is as follows:
"In any case in which the United States has taken or may take
possession of any real property during the course of condemnation
proceedings and in advance of final judgment therein and the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

with the provision of § 1 authorizing award of more than
the amount deposited as estimated compensation,, as indicating a purpose to make the transfer of title irrevocable upon the filing of the declaration and the making of
the deposit. 8 From the fact that the Government may
become irrevocably committed to pay, it does not follow
that the owner is irrevocably committed to submit to the
taking, since the statute's terms are not in pari materia in
this respect. Neither § 3 nor § 5 purports to bind the
owner irrevocably. On the contrary, § 5 deals only with
authority to expend appropriated funds for demolition
of existing structures and construction of new ones; and
the concluding proviso, requiring the opinion of the Attorney General that "title has been vested in the United
States or all persons having an interest therein have been
made parties to such proceeding and will be bound by the
final judgment therein," (emphasis added) before the
funds are expended, seems clearly to contemplate that
title is not indefeasibly vested in the United States merely
by following the administrative procedure. Final judgStates has become irrevocably committed to pay the amount ultimately to be awarded as compensation, it shall be lawful to expend
moneys duly appropriated for that purpose in demolishing existing

structures on said land and in erecting public buildings or public works
thereon, notwithstanding the provisions of section 355 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States: Provided, That in the opinion of the
Attorney General, the title has been vested in the United States or all
persons having an interest therein have been made parties to such
proceeding and will be bound by the final judgment therein."
18 Including or following the finding required by § 3, which provides:
"Action under this statute irrevocably committing the United States
to the payment of the ultimate award shall not be taken unless the
chief of the executive department or agency or bureau of the Government empowered to acquire the land shall be of the opinion that the
ultimate award probably will be within any limits prescribed by Congress on the price to be paid."

CATLIN v. UNITED STATES.
229

Opinion of the Court.

ment in "such proceeding," that is, the main condemnition suit, is necessary for that purpose. The operation of
§§ 3 and 5 is to cut off the Government's right to abandon the proceedings. It is not to compel the owner to
submit to unauthorized takings.
Accordingly, in our opinion the right of the owner to
challenge the validity of the taking, for nonconformity
with the prescribed statutory purposes, was not destroyed
by the 1931 act. Nor was the right to do this upon appeal,
existing before that act was adopted, affected. No such
"severance"l was made as the court deciding the Puerto
Rico case thought was created. No new right of separate
appeal was given. The preexisting right of appeal, including appeal on grounds relating to validity of the taking,
remained in force to be exercised when and only when
final judgment, disposing of the cause in its entirety, has
been rendered. The statute makes no other explicit provision. Nor is one so clearly implied that we can make it.
The weightier implications are the other way.
We have not discussed other issues presented or suggested in the briefs or argument, since that has not been
necessary to the disposition of this cause. These include
the question whether, when possession has been taken and
damage has been done to the premises in the course of proceedings not authorized, the remedy by appeal is adequate.
That issue has not been made in this case, since the
grounds urged rest upon the provisions of the 1931 act
relating to title and their effect, through the proceedings
had, upon the petitioners right. They do not relate simply
to the taking of possession, the right to take it or damages
resulting from exercise of that right, apart from the question of title. Possession in this case had been taken, pursuant to the terms of the 1917 act, prior to the time of the
purported transfer of title. It will be time enough to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

sider the question concerning adequacy of the appeal or
possible existence of other remedy affecting such a case
when it arises.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the result.
GEMSCO, INC. ET AL. v. WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION, U. S.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
NO. 308.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued December 5, 1944.--Decided February 26, 1945.
Under § 8 (f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Administrator has
authority, as a necessary means of making effective a minimum wage
order for the embroideries industry, to prohibit industrial homework. Pp. 254, 269.
144 F. 2d 608, affirmed.

323 U. S. 695, to review a judgment affirming a wage order promulgated by the Administrator under
the Fair Labor Standards Act.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. Samuel S. Allan and Seymour D. Altmark, with
whom Messrs. Walter Brower, Samuel J. Cohen, Coleman
Gangel, Ilo Orleans and Myron P. Gordon were on the
brief, for petitioners.
*Together with No. 369, Maretzo et al. v. Walling, Administrator
of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor, and
No. 370, Guiseppi et al. v. Walling, Administrator of the Wage and
Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor, also on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

