COMMiSSIOINtR v. EISTArrE OF iELD. 113
108

Syllabus.

not faced with the question whether May v. Heiner, 281
U. S. 238, should survive Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S.
106. On the findings of the District Court, it is plain
that the entire corpus must be included in decedent's
gross estate by virtue of § 302 (c) of the 1926 Act unless
the value of the life estate must be deducted. The value
of the life estate deducted in the Hallock case was the
life estate in the settlor's wife. It was excluded because
it took effect in possession or enjoyment when the trust
was created. The life estate which the decedent reserved
to herself is obviously in a different category. It is not
an "outstanding life estate" within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 80, Art. 17.
I would rest the decision there and reserve judgment on
the other questions adverted to in the opinion of the
Court.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
ESTATE OF FIELD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. .578. Argued January 5, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.
1. Decedent made a transfer of property in trust limited in duration to the lives of two nieces. If decedent survived both nieces
the corpus was to go to the decedent rather than to the beneficiaries named in the trust instrument. The nieces survived the
decedent. Held that, under § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926,
the value of the entire corpus of the trust property at the death
of the decedent was includible in the gross estate for the purpose
of the federal estate tax. Fidelity-PhiladelphiaTrust Co. v. Rothensies, ante, p. 108. P. 115.
2. Since the corpus of the trust did not shed the possibility of reversion until the decedent's death, the value of the entire corpus
on the date of death was taxable under § 302 (c). P. 116.
144 F. 2d 62, reversed.

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 704, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 21, which sustained the
Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in estate
taxes.

Mr. L. W. Post, with whom Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Messrs.
Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Edgar J. Bernheimer, with whom Mr. Harry T.
Zucker was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Charles Angulo, as amicus curiae, filed a brief on
behalf of the estate of John C. Duncan.
MR. JusTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a companion case to Fidelity-PhiladelphiaTrust
Co. v. Rothensies, ante,p. 108. It too presents a question
as to the proper valuation of the corpus of an inter vivos
trust under § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat.
9, 70.
On June 8, 1922, the decedent transferred to a trustee
certain assets valued at the date of his death at the
sum of $157,452.82. The material portions of the trust
provided:
1. The trust was to continue for the joint lives of two
nieces and the life of the survivor of them unless terminated earlier under 4, infra.
2. The income was to be paid to the decedent for his
life unless the trust terminated before his death.
3. If the decedent died prior to the termination of the
trust leaving issue, the trust property was to be held in
trust for the children or their issue, subject to decedent's
right to reduce or cancel the amounts of the gifts by will or
written instrument. Provisions were also made for a

COMMISSIONER v. ESTATE OF FIELD. 115
113

Opinion of the Court.

$150,000 trust for the widow which is not in issue in this
case.
4. During the continuance of the trusts the income was
to be paid to the beneficiary named and upon the death of
the beneficiary during the continuance of the trust the
corpus was to be paid to the beneficiary's issue surviving,
but if there be none, to the issue of the decedent surviving; if none, then to decedent's brother or sister or their
issue.
5. Upon termination of the trust before the death of the
decedent the corpus was to be paid over to decedent.
6. Upon termination of the trust after the death of the
decedent but during the existence of any trust the corpus
was to be paid to the life beneficiary.
The decedent at no time had any issue. At his death
in 1937 at the age of 52, he was survived by the two nieces
whose lives were to measure the maximum life of the trust.
These nieces were then aged 18 and 25 respectively. He
was also survived by his widow, a sister and issue of a
deceased brother.
The Tax Court held that the entire amount of $157,452.82 was includable in the gross estate for purposes of
the estate tax. 2 T. C. 21. But the court below reversed
and remanded the case to the Tax Court with directions
to include in the gross estate only $24,930.76-the value
at the time of decedent's death of a remainder in the sum
of $157,452.82 payable at all events upon the death of
the survivor of two females, aged 18 and 25 respectively.
144 F. 2d 62.
The error of the court below is self-evident from our
discussion in the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Co. case.
The trust here was limited in duration to the lives of the
decedent's two nieces. But if both nieces died before the
decedent, the corpus would have been paid to the decedent rather than to the beneficiaries named in the trust
instrument (in this instance the decedent's sister and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS, J.,

concurring.

324 U. S.

issue of his deceased brother). Thus until decedent's
death it was uncertain whether any of the corpus would
pass to the beneficiaries dr whether it would revert to the
decedent. Decedent retaining a string attached to all the
property until death severed it, the entire corpus was
swept into the gross estate and was taxable accordingly.
There is no basis evident for deducting the value of the
corpus for the period of the life expectancies of the two
measuring lives, as was done by the court below. The
estate tax is not based on the value of the reversionary
interest of the decedent at the time of his death but on
the value at the time of his death of the property to which
that reversionary interest relates. It makes no difference
how vested may be the remainder interests in the corpus
or how remote or uncertain may be the decedent's reversionary interest. If the corpus does not shed the possibility of reversion until at or after the decedent's death,
the value of the entire corpus on the date of death is
taxable.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring.

If the trust gave a life estate to the decedent and the
remainder to his children, § 302 (c) of the 1926 Act would
not require the payment of a tax under the rule of May
v. Heiner, 281 U. S. 238; Burnet v. Northern Trust Co.,
283 U. S. 782; McCormick v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 784; and
Hassett v. Welch, 303 U. S. 303. The theory of May v.
Heiner was that under those circumstances no interest in
the property passed from the grantor to the remainderman on the grantor's death, since the title of the remainderman had been definitely fixed by the trust deed. We
need not determine whether the rule of May v. Heiner
should survive Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106. See
Paul, Federal Estate & Gift Taxation (1942) § 7.15. For

HERB v. PITCAIRN.
113

Counsel for Parties.

in this case the grantor retained the right to reduce or
cancel by will or written instrument the interests of the
children; and the corpus would have been returned to the
grantor if he survived his nieces. Hence it seems plain
that the gifts over would take effect in possession or enjoyment only at or after the death of the grantor.
HERB v. PITCAIRN ET AL., RECEIVERS FOR
WABASH RAILWAY CO.
NO. 24.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.*

Argued October 17, 18, 1944.-Decided February 5, 1945.
The records in these cases under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
being ambiguous as to whether the state court judgments of dismissal rest on a federal ground or on an adequate state ground, it is
appropriate in the circumstances that the causes be continued for
such period as will enable counsel for petitioners with all convenient
speed to apply to the state court for amendment, or certificate, which
will show whether that court intended to rest the judgments on an
adequate and independent state ground or whether decision of the
federal question was necessary to the judgments rendered. P. 128.
384 Ill. 237, 281, 51 N. E. 2d 277, 282, considered.
CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 759, to review judgments affirming
dismissals of two suits under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.

Mr. Roberts P. Elam, with whom Mr. Mark D. Eagleton was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Bruce A. Campbell, with whom Messrs. Carleton
S. Hadley, Geo. D. Burroughs,James A. Farmerand Wal-

ton Whitwell were on the brief, for respondents.
*Together with No. 25, Belcher v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Co., also on certiorari to the Supreme Court of Illinois.
637582'--46-

12

