746

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. A. E. STALEY
MANUFACTURING CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 559.

Argued February 28, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.

1. The price discriminations involved in respondents' basing-point
delivered price system and in certain "booking" practices were
prohibited by § 2 (a) of the Clayton Act. Corn Products Refining
Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, ante, p. 726. P. 750.
2. The evidence in this case supports the finding of the Federal Trade
Commission that respondents' price discriminations were not made
"in good faith" to meet equally low prices of competitors, within the
meaning of the proviso of § 2 (b) of the Clayton Act. P. 758.
(a) The determination from the evidence whether respondents
acted "in good faith" to meet a competitor's equally low prices,
within the meaning of § 2 (b) of the Act, is for the Commission.
P. 758.
(b) Respondents' showing that they adopted and followed the
basing-point system of their competitors did not under § 2 (b)
justify their price discriminations. P. 753.
(c) That respondents' prices are lower than those they might
have charged, but never did charge, does not tend to show the
establishment of a lower price to meet an equally low price of a
competitor. P. 755.
3. The Commission's finding that respondents failed to meet the
burden of rebutting the prima facie case of price discriminations
involved in their booking practices, since they had failed to show
that their lower prices were "made in good faith to meet an equally
low price of a competitor," is supported by the evidence. P. 759.
(a) The appraisal of the evidence and the inferences to be
drawn therefrom are for the Commission, not the courts. P. 760.
(b) Section 2 (b) requires that the seller, who has knowingly
discriminated in price, show at least the existence of facts which
would lead a reasonable and prudent person to believe that the
granting of a lower price would in fact meet the equally low price
of a competitor. P. 759.
144 F. 2d 221, reversed.

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

CERTioRA~i, 323 U. S. 702, to review a judgment which
set aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission in a
proceeding under § 11 of the Clayton Act.

Mr. Walter B. Wooden, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Messrs. Paul A.
Freund, Matthias N. Orfield and W. T. Kelley were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Carl R. Miller, with whom Messrs. Charles C. LeForgee and Paul D. Doolen were on the brief, and Mr.
William D. Whitney for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONt

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondents, a parent company and its sales subsidiary,
are engaged in the manufacture and sale of glucose or
corn syrup in competition with others, including the Corn
Products Refining Company, whose methods of marketing and pricing its products are described in our opinion
in Corn Products Refining Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, ante, p. 726. Respondents, in selling their glucose,
have adopted a basing point delivered price system comparable to that of the Corn Products Refining Company.
Respondents sell their product, manufactured at Decatur,
Illinois, at delivered prices based on Chicago, Illinois, the
price in each case being the Chicago price plus freight from
Chicago to point of delivery.
In this proceeding, brought under § 11 of the Clayton
Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 15 U. S. C. § 21, the Federal Trade
Commission charged that respondents' pricing system resulted in price discriminations between different purchasers of glucose in violation of § 2 (a) of the Clayton
Act, as amended by the Robinson-Patman Act, c. 592,
49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13. The case was heard by the

748

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Commission on stipulations of facts and exhibits, upon
the basis of which the Commission ultimately made its
findings. Applying the same principles as in the Corn
Products Refining Company case, it concluded that respondents had made discriminations between different
purchasers in the price of their product; and that respondents were unable to justify the discriminations, as permitted by § 2 (b) of the Clayton Act, by showing that they
were made "in good faith" to meet a competitor's equally
low price. The Commission accordingly made its order
directing respondents to cease and desist from the price
discriminations.
On review of the Commission's order, the Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit set the Commission's
order aside, one judge dissenting. 144 F. 2d 221. One
of the majority judges did not consider whether the price
discriminations violated § 2 (a), but held that in any
event they were made in good faith to meet their competitors' price within the meaning of § 2 (b). Another
concurred in the result on the ground that the Commission
had failed to make out a case of unlawful price discrimination, and for that reason he found no occasion to pass
upon the merits of respondents' defense. The third judge
dissented on the ground that respondents' discriminations
were unlawful and not justified by competition. We
granted certiorari. 323 U. S. 702.
The principal question for decision is whether respondents, who adopted the discriminatory price system of their
competitors, including the Corn Products Refining Company, have sustained the burden of justifying their price
system under § 2 (b) of the Clayton Act, as amended, by
showing that their prices were made "in good faith" to
meet the equally low prices of competitors. A further
question is whether there was evidence to support the
Federal Trade Commission's findings that respondents,
in granting to certain favored buyers discriminatory prices

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

for their product, did not act "in good faith" to meet a
competitor's equally low price within the meaning of
§ 2 (b) of the Clayton Act.
The Commission found that at all relevant times respondents have sold glucose, shipped to purchasers from
their plant at Decatur, Illinois, on a delivered price basis,
the lowest price quoted being for delivery to Chicago purchasers. Respondents' Chicago price is not only a delivered price at that place. It is also a basing point price
upon which all other delivered prices, including the price
at Decatur, are computed by adding to the base price,
freight from Chicago to the point of delivery. The Decatur price, as well as the delivered price at all points
at which the freight from Decatur is less than the freight
from Chicago, includes an item of unearned or "phantom"
freight, ranging in amount, in instances mentioned by the
Commission, from 1 cent per hundred pounds at St.
Joseph, Missouri, to 18 cents at Decatur. The Chicago
price, as well as that at points at which the freight from
Decatur exceeds freight from Chicago, required respondents to "absorb" freight, varying in instances cited by
the Commission from 4 cents per one hundred pounds at
St. Louis, Missouri, to 151/ cents per hundred pounds
at Chicago.
The Commission found that this inclusion of unearned
freight or absorption of freight in calculating the delivered
prices operated to discriminate against purchasers at all
points where the freight rate from Decatur was less than
that from Chicago and in favor of purchasers at points
where the freight rate from Decatur was greater than
that from Chicago. It also made findings comparable to
those made in the Corn ProductsRefining Company case
that the effect of these discriminations between purchasers, who are candy and syrup manufacturers competing with each other, was to diminish competition between them.

750

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

The Commission also found that respondents, during
a period of from five to ten days after they advance the
prices of their product, customarily permit purchasers
generally to "book" orders or secure options to purchase
glucose at the old price, for delivery within thirty days,
but that they also have permitted certain favored purchasers to secure additional extensions of time for delivery upon such options. In consequence of these time
extensions, the favored buyers were enabled to secure glucose at a lower price than that concurrently being charged
to other buyers. In some instances, after a price advance,
respondents also made fictitious bookings on which deliveries were later made, at the option of the favored buyers; and in still other cases sales were made to favored
purchasers long after the expiration of the booking period.
Respondents also book glucose in tank car lots to certain
purchasers who lack storage facilities for such quantities;
respondents then actually make deliveries in tank wagon
lots over a period of many months, during which they are
selling to others upon like deliveries at higher prices.
These findings, and the conclusion of the Commission
that the price discriminations involved are prohibited by
§ 2 (a), are challenged here. But, for the reasons we have
given in our opinion in the Corn ProductsRefining Com-

pany case, the challenge must fail. The sole question we
find it necessary to discuss here is whether respondents
have succeeded in justifying the discriminations by an
adequate showing that the discriminations were made "in
good faith" to meet equally low prices of competitors.
I
We consider first, respondents' asserted justification of
the discriminations involved in its basing point pricing
system. As we hold in the Corn Products Refining Com-

pany case with respect to a like system, price discriminations are necessarily involved where the price basing point

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

is distant from the point of production. This is because,
as in respondents' case, the delivered prices upon shipments from Decatur usually include an item of unearned
or phantom freight or require the absorption of freight
with the consequent variations in the seller's net factory
prices. Since such freight differentials bear no relation to
the actual cost of delivery, they are systematic discriminations prohibited by § 2 (a), whenever they have the
defined effect upon competition.
Respondents sought to justify these discriminations before the Commission, by a stipulation detailing the history
and use of their present pricing system. From this it appears that in 1920, when respondents began the manufacture of glucose or corn syrup, they found that syrup manufactured by their competitors "was being sold at delivered
prices in the various markets of the United States"; that
in Chicago two large factories were manufacturing syrup
and delivering it in Chicago at prices lower than prices
then prevailing in any other market; and that the delivered price in such other markets was generally equal to
the Chicago price plus the published freight rate from
Chicago to the point of delivery. Respondents thus found
in operation a pricing system which, if followed, would
produce exact identity in prices of glucose of the several
producers when sold in any city of the United States.
Respondents, to gain access to the markets thus established, made their sales "by first quoting the same prices
as were quoted by competitors and then making whatever
reduction in price . . . was necessary to obtain business."
When respondents soon found that their product would
command the same market price as that of their competitors, they "adopted the practice of selling at the same delivered prices as [their] competitors, whatever they might
be." Respondents have followed the same practice since
June 19, 1936, the date of enactment of the RobinsonPatman Act.

752

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Section 2 (b) of the Clayton Act provides:
"Upon proof being made, at any hearing on a complaint
under this section, that there has been discrimination
in price . . . , the burden of rebutting the prima-facie
case thus made by showing justification shall be upon the
person charged with a violation of this section, and unless
justification shall be affirmatively shown, the Commission
is authorized to issue an order terminating the discrimination: Provided, however, That nothing herein contained
shall prevent a seller rebutting the prima-facie case thus
made by showing that his lower price . . . was made in
good faith to meet an equally low price of a competitor . . ."
It will be noted that the defense that the price discriminations were made in order to meet competition, is under
the statute a matter of "rebutting" the Commission's
"prima-facie case." Prior to the Robinson-Patman
amendments, § 2 of the Clayton Act provided that nothing
contained in it "shall prevent" discriminations in price
"made in good faith to meet competition." The change
in language of this exception I was for the purpose of mak'As originally introduced, the Robinson-Patman amendment contained no provision similar to that in § 2 of the Clayton Act as orig-

inally enacted, which provided "That nothing herein contained shall
prevent . . . discrimination in price in the same or different communities made in good faith to meet competition." In the Senate this
existing provision was added by amendment to the Robinson-Patman
bill. 80 Cong. Rec. 6426, 6435. In the House, the Judiciary Committee reported the bill with the proviso, substantially as enacted in
§ 2 (b).

80 Cong. Rec. 8139. The Conference Committee rejected

the Senate version and
port of the Conference
said: "This language is
the conferees is one of

approved the House amendment. The ReCommittee, speaking of the Senate proviso,
found in existing law, and in the opinion of
the obstacles to enforcement of the present
Clayton Act. . . . A provision relating to the question of meeting
competition, intended to operate only as a rule of evidence in a proceeding before the Federal Trade Commission, is included in subsection
(b) . . ." H. Rep. No. 2951, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 6-7.

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

ing the defense a matter of evidence in each case, raising
a question of fact as to whether the competition justified
the discrimination. See the Conference Report, H. Rep.
No. 2951, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 6-7; see also the statement of Representative Utterbach, the Chairman of the
House Conference Committee, 80 Cong. Rec. 9418.
But respondents argue that they have sustained their
burden of proof, as prescribed by § 2 (b), by showing that
they have adopted and followed the basing point system
of their competitors. In the Corn ProductsRefining Company case we hold that this price system of respondents'
competitor in part involves unlawful price discriminations,
to the extent that freight differentials enter into the computation of price, as a result of the selection as a basing
point of a place distant from the point of production and
shipment. Thus it is the contention that a seller may
justify a basing point delivered price system, which is
otherwise outlawed by § 2, because other competitors are
in part violating the law by maintaining a like system. If
respondents' argument is sound, it would seem to follow
that even if the competitor's pricing system were wholly
in violation of § 2 of the Clayton Act, respondents could
adopt and follow it with impunity.
This startling conclusion is admissible only upon the
assumption that the statute permits a seller to maintain
an otherwise unlawful system of discriminatory prices,
merely because he had adopted it in its entirety, as a
means of securing the benefits of a like unlawful system
maintained by his competitors. But § 2 (b) does not
concern itself with pricing systems or even with all the
seller's discriminatory prices to buyers. It speaks only of
the seller's "lower" price and of that only to the extent that
it is made "in good faith to meet an equally low price of
a competitor." The Act thus places emphasis on individual competitive situations, rather than upon a general
system of competition. Respondents are here seeking to

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

justify delivered prices which discriminate in favor of
buyers in Chicago and at points nearer, freightwise, to
Chicago than to Decatur, by a pricing system involving
phantom freight and freight absorption. We think the
conclusion is inadmissible, in view of the clear Congressional purpose not to sanction by § 2 (b) the excuse that
the person charged with a violation of the law was merely
adopting a similarly unlawful practice of another.'
The statutory test is whether respondents, by their
basing point system, adopted a "lower price . . . in good
faith to meet an equally low price of a competitor." This
test presupposes that the person charged with violating
the Act would, by his normal, non-discriminatory pricing
methods, have reached a price so high that he could reduce
it in order to meet the competitor's equally low price. On
the contrary, respondents have used their pricing system
to adopt the delivery prices of their Chicago competitors,
by charging their own customers upon shipments from
Decatur the Chicago base price plus their competitors'
costs of delivery from Chicago. Even though respondents, at many delivery points, enjoyed freight advantages
over their competitors, they did not avail of the opportunity to charge lower delivered prices. Instead they
maintained their own prices at the level of their competitors' high prices, based upon the competitors' higher
costs of delivery, by including phantom freight in their
own delivered prices.
Respondents have never attempted to establish their
own non-discriminatory price system, and then reduced
2 The Chairman of the House Conferees, in presenting the Con-

ference Report, emphasized with illustrations that "this procedural
provision cannot be construed as a carte blanche exemption to violate
the bill so long as a competitor can be shown to have violated it first,
nor so long as that competition cannot be met without the use of
oppressive discriminations in violation of the obvious intent of the
bill." See 80 Cong. Rec. 9418.

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

their price when necessary to meet competition. Instead
they have slavishly followed in the first instance a pricing
policy which, in their case, resulted in systematic discriminations, by charging their customers upon shipments
from Decatur, the Chicago base price plus their competitors' actual costs of delivery from Chicago. Moreover,
there is no showing that if respondents had charged nondiscriminatory prices, they would be higher in all cases
than those now prevailing under their basing point system.
Hence t cannot be said that respondents' price discriminations have resulted in "lower" prices to meet equally
low prices of a competitor.
Respondents make an ingenious argument that they
could have used their present price for deliveries at
Decatur (which is the Chicago base price plus freight
from Chicago to Decatur) as their base price; and that
with the addition of freight from Decatur to the points of
delivery, the delivered prices would in all cases then be
higher than the present prices, so that reduction to meet
the lower prices of their competitors would be permissible
under § 2 (b). But this is no answer to the ruling of the
Commission that the competitive situation did not justify
respondents' pricing system, since respondents' argument
is based upon a hypothesis, which never in fact existed.
The fact that respondents' prices are lower than those they
might have charged, but never did charge, does not tend
to show the establishment of a lower price to meet an
equally low price of a competitor.
Further, we cannot say that respondents' discriminations in price were shown to have been made in a "good
faith" effort to meet competition, as § 2 (b) requires. As
we have pointed out here and in our opinion in the companion case, Corn Products Refining Co. v. Federal Trade
Commission, supra, the basing point system used by respondents discriminates systematically in favor of buyers
in Chicago and at points nearer, freightwise, to Chicago

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

than to Decatur, and against purchasers at Decatur and
points nearer to it, by reason of respondents' absorption
of freight and collection of phantom freight.
This is illustrated most graphically by respondents' delivered prices at Decatur and Chicago. On August 1, 1939,
these were $2.09 at Chicago, and $2.27 at Decatur. Since
respondents incurred 18 cents freight in shipping to Chicago, their net price at the Decatur factory on shipments
to Chicago was $1.91. The discrimination in favor of
Chicago and against Decatur was thus 36 cents, or 17 per
cent of the Chicago price, in a field where a difference of
a fraction of a cent in the sales price of the candy processed
from the glucose could divert buyers from one candy manufacturer to another. Only to a lesser degree are there
like discriminations when other points of delivery are
compared.
The Commission's conclusion seems inescapable that respondents' discriminations, such as those between purchasers in Chicago and Decatur, were established not to
meet equally low Chicago prices of competitors there, but
in order to establish elsewhere the artificially high prices
whose discriminatory effect permeates respondents' entire
pricing system. The systematic adoption of a competitor's prices by including unearned freight in respondents'
delivery price or, what amounts to the same thing, the
maintenance of a discriminatory and artificially high f. o. b.
factory price in order to take advantage of the correspondingly high prices of a competitor, based on its higher costs
of delivery, is not sufficient to justify the discrimination,
for respondent fails to show, as the statute requires, the
establishment of a "lower price" made in good faith to
meet the equally low price of a competitor. By adopting
the price system of their competitors, respondents have
succeeded in many instances in establishing an artificially
high price and have thus secured the benefit of the high

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

price levels of a competitor whose costs of delivery are
greater.
A price discrimination is measured by the difference
between the high price to one purchaser and the lower
price to another. Respondents' price discriminations were
not dictated by the lower delivery costs or lower delivery
prices of their competitors. In none of the markets in
which respondents had a freight advantage over their
Chicago competitors did respondents reduce their prices
below those of their competitors. Instead they met and
followed their competitors' prices by prices rendered artificially high, by the inclusion of unearned freight proportioned to the amount by which their competitors' delivered
costs exceeded their own.
We cannot say that a seller acts in good faith when it
chooses to adopt such a clearly discriminatory pricing
system, at least where it has never attempted to set up a
non-discriminatory system, giving to purchasers, who have
the natural advantage of proximity to its plant, the price
advantages which they are entitled to expect over purchasers at a distance. And for like reasons, we must reject respondents' argument that the Commission's order
could be rendered nugatory, by respondents' establishing
such a high factory price as always to admit of reductions
in order to meet the prices of competitors who are using
a Chicago basing point system. For we think it could not
be said that this practical continuation of the present discriminatory basing point system would be in good faith.
But it does not follow that respondents may never absorb
freight when their factory price plus actual freight is
higher than their competitors' price, or that sellers, by so
doing, may not maintain a uniform delivered price at all
points of delivery, for in that event there is no discrimination in price.
637582---46-52

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Congress has left to the Commission the determination
of fact in each case whether the person, charged with
making discriminatory prices, acted in good faith to meet
a competitor's equally low prices. The determination of
this fact from the evidence is for the Commission. See
Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific States Paper Trade
Assn., 273 U. S. 52, 63; Federal Trade Commission v.
Algoma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67, 73. In the present case,
the Commission's finding that respondents' price discriminations were not made to meet a "lower" price and consequently were not in good faith, is amply supported by
the record, and we think the Court of Appeals erred in
setting aside this portion of the Commission's order to
cease and desist.
II
The Commission found that respondents had not sustained the burden of rebutting the prima facie case of
price discriminations involved in their booking practices,
since they had failed to show that their lower prices were
"made in good faith to meet an equally low price of a
competitor." The facts as stipulated were only that the
discriminations were made in response to verbal information received from salesmen, brokers or intending purchasers, without supporting evidence, to the effect that
in each case one or more competitors had granted or offered to grant like discriminations. It is stipulated that
respondents, "believing such report to be true, has then
granted similar" price discriminations. The record contains no statements by the persons making these reports
and discloses no efforts by respondents to investigate or
verify them, and no evidence of respondents' knowledge of
their informants' character and reliability. It is admitted
that in some instances respondents made sales upon bookings which they suspected had been made without knowledge of the buyers.

TRADE COMM'N v. STALEY CO.
746

Opinion of the Court.

In appraising the evidence, the Commission recognized
that the statute does not place an impossible burden upon
sellers, but it emphasized the good faith requirement of
the statute, which places the burden of proving good faith
on the seller, who has made the discriminatory prices. The
Commission commented on the tendency of buyers to seek
to secure the most advantageous terms of sales possible,
and upon the entire lack of a showing of diligence on the
part of respondents to verify the reports which they received, or to learn of the existence of facts which would
lead a reasonable and prudent person to believe that the
granting of a lower price would in fact be meeting the
equally low price of a competitor. The Commission
thought that respondents' allowance of discretionary
prices, in circumstances which strongly suggested that the
buyers' claims were without merit, as well as respondents'
readiness to grant discriminatory prices without taking
any steps to verify the existence of a lower price of competitors, and the entire absence of any showing that
respondents had taken any precaution to conduct their
business in such manner as to prevent unwarranted discriminations in price, all taken together, required the
conclusion that respondents had not sustained the burden
of showing that their price discriminations were made in
good faith to meet the lower prices of competitors.
Section 2 (b) does not require the seller to justify price
discriminations by showing that in fact they met a competitive price. But it does place on the seller the burden
of showing that the price was made in good faith to meet
a competitor's. The good faith of the discrimination must
be shown in the face of the fact that the seller is aware
that his discrimination is unlawful, unless good faith is
shown, and in circumstances which are peculiarly favorable to price discrimination abuses. We agree with the
Commission that the statute at least requires the seller,
who has knowingly discriminated in price, to show the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

760

324 U. S.

Syllabus.

istence of facts which would lead a reasonable and prudent
person to believe that the granting of a lower price would
in fact meet the equally low price of a competitor. Nor
was the Commission wrong in holding that respondents
failed to meet this burden.
The appraisal of the evidence and the inferences to be
drawn from it are for the Commission, not the courts. See
Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific States Paper Trade

Assn., supra, 63; Federal Trade Commission v. Algoma
Lumber Co., supra,73. We cannot say that the Commission's inference is not supported by the stipulated facts
or that its inference does not support its order.
The Commission's order will be sustained. The judgment below will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
instructions to enforce the Commission's order.

So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.

WHITE v. RAGEN, WARDEN.
NO. 212.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.*

Argued March 29, April 2, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
1. The petitions for habeas corpus in these cases sufficiently alleged
violations of petitioners' rights under the Federal Constitution.
P. 764.
2. This Court is unable to say that the refusal of the Supreme Court
of Illinois to entertain the petitions for habeas corpus in these cases
does not rest on an adequate non-federal ground; and the writs
of certiorari herein must be dismissed. P. 766.
* Together with No. 259, Lutz v. Ragen, Warden, also on certiorari
to the Supreme Court of Illinois.

