OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

CENTRAL STATES ELECTRIC CO. v. CITY OF
MUSCATINE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 85.

Argued December 8, 1944.-Decided February 12, 1945.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals, which, upon review of a valid rate
order of the Federal Power Commission under the Natural Gas
Act, had impounded pendente lite amounts paid to the natural
gas company by the petitioner (a local distributor) in excess of
lawful rates, was without jurisdiction to adjudicate the rights of
consumers in the fund or to order payment of the fund to officers
of municipalities for the benefit of those ultimately found entitled.
P. 145.
2. In this situation, the most that the court below should do, in view
of the apparent controversy as to the consumers' right to a refund of rates paid to the petitioner, is to order that the fund be
held for a reasonable time to permit interested persons to litigate
the issue in a tribunal having jurisdiction, the order to be conditioned that if such litigation is not instituted within a reasonable
time, and prosecuted to final adjudication, the fund shall be paid
over to the petitioner, and that, if it be adjudged as a result of
such litigation that the petitioner is indebted to its consumers because of the reduction of wholesale rates in this proceeding, further application may be made to the court as to disposition of the
fund. P. 145.
3. United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, and Inland Steel Co. v.
United States, 306 U. S. 153, distinguished. P. 145.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 724, to review orders of the court

below which directed payment to certain municipal officers of impounded funds claimed by the petitioner.
Mr. Perry M. Chadwick, with whom Mr. Bert L. Klooster was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles V. Shannon, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, Messrs. Robert

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

139

Opinion of the Court.

L. Stern, Jerome H. Simonds and Stanley M. Morley were
on the brief, for the Federal Power Commission; and the
cause was submitted by Mr. Matthew Westrate for the
City of Muscatine and by Elmer E. Johnson, pro se,respondents.
MR. JUSTICm ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are concerned in this case with the nature and extent of the powers of a federal court sitting to review an
order of the Federal Power Commission.
The decision of the court below denied the petitioner's
application for payment to it of a fund of some $25,000
deposited in court, and directed its payment to persons not
privies to the transaction which created the fund. A detailed recitation of events is required to show how the
question arises.
The Federal Power Commission (hereinafter called
Commission), proceeding under the Natural Gas Act,' entered an order against the Natural Gas Pipeline Company
of America (hereinafter called Pipeline) requiring it to
cut its rates on natural gas to effect an annual reduction
in revenue of not less than $3,750,000, effective September
1, 1940.
The petitioner, Central States Electric Company (hereinafter sometimes called Central), an Iowa corporation
doing a public utility business in that State and elsewhere,
purchased gas at wholesale from Pipeline and distributed
it in Iowa.
Pipeline sought a review of the Commission's action by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. The court set aside the order but, on certiorari, we reversed and sustained it.' At
the inception of the case Pipeline had petitioned for a
152
Stat. 821; 15 U. S. C. § 717.
2
FederalPower Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co., 315 U. S.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

temporary stay and the court below had granted a stay
on condition that a bond be filed to secure the refund to
purchasers at wholesale of the amounts respectively due
them if the court should sustain the reduction of rates
ordered by the Commission. On the dissolution of the
temporary stay another was entered to continue until the
further order of the court, conditioned that Pipeline
should enter a second bond in the same terms. This was
done.
When this court rendered its judgment sustaining the
rate order, Pipeline became liable to make refunds in
accordance with the bond. The court below, prior to the
payment of the amount due under the bond, filed an opinion holding that it was its duty to take exclusive control
over the refund when made and to determine the rights
of all claimants in the fund, and made an order enjoining
claimants to the fund from further proceeding in any other
court. This action was pursuant to a petition of Pipeline
showing that suits were being filed against it in other
courts by the ultimate consumers of the gas sold by Pipeline to the local distributing companies and alleging that
unless the court retained jurisdiction of the fund Pipeline
would be subjected to numerous similar suits. Illinois
Commerce Commission, in an answer, stated that the
rates charged by distributing companies in Illinois were
fixed by it and reflected the prices paid by distributors to
Pipeline and that the refund, representing excessive rates
paid by distributors, had been collected from the ultimate
consumers and was equitably due them. The Illinois local
distributors then before the court agreed that the refund
should be ratably paid to the ultimate consumers.
Central was not a party to the proceeding in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but, on June 29, 1942, it sent a letter
to the Clerk, in response to one from him, asserting that
the portion of the refund representing excessive rates paid
by Central during the refund period should be repaid to

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

141

Opinion of the Court.

it and not to the ultimate consumers. June 30, 1942, the
court rendered an opinion in which it discussed the relative rights and interests of local distributors and ultimate
consumers. The court found that, since the rates charged
to local consumers included the excess charges paid by
distributors to Pipeline, the ultimate consumers were in
equity entitled to receive the refund. July 1, 1942, Pipeline paid into court a sum representing that portion of the
rates paid to it in excess of the rate permitted by the Commission's order. The court thereupon entered an order
to show cause, which specified the refund period, determined that the amount paid into court was the property
of the ultimate consumers, and allocated the fund to the
customers of the local distributors, including Central's
customers (to whom there was allocated $25,708.54), reserved jurisdiction of the fund for the protection of all
persons having rights therein, and directed all claimants
to the fund to show cause why the order should not be
binding on them. Later the court entered an order in
which it found that Central had raised an issue concerning the relative rights of itself and its customers to the
amount in question. Central, which, as we have said,
had not become a party to the proceedings, then filed a
petition in intervention praying that the sum be paid to
it, and leave to intervene was granted. Central's petition
set forth that it purchased natural gas from Pipeline during the refund period, pursuant to a contract;. that the
sum in question represented amounts paid by Central
during the refund period in excess of the rates fixed by
the Commission's order; that Central sold more than 81%
of the gas in question without profit to Iowa Electric
Company, which resold the same to some 2,400 consumers
in Muscatine, Iowa, and that Central sold the balance
directly to some 320 consumers in Greenfield, Iowa, 597
in Knoxville, Iowa, and 366 in Pella, Iowa; that less than
12 % of the gas sold in Knoxville and Pella was natural

142

OCTOBER TERM 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

gas; that Iowa Electric Company had transferred all its
rights in and to the fund to Central for the purpose of
these proceedings; that, by the law of Iowa, the power
to fix rates for gas service is vested in its municipalities,
and the utility rates in that State are not regulated by
any State agency or commission; that rates to consumers
had been voluntarily reduced to meet competitive conditions and that such rates had been approved by resolution
of the Council of Muscatine; and that, due to conditions
in the communities serviced, the rates charged consumers
were insufficient to produce a fair return.
Thereafter the court entered an order directing that the
Attorney General of Iowa and the purchasers of gas from
Central, and their respective municipal representatives in
Muscatine and Greenfield, be notified of Central's claim
to the fund and that they show cause why the relief
sought by Central should not be granted. No such order
was made with respect to consumers in Knoxville and
Pella nor to any officials of those cities. The City of
Muscatine and the Mayor of Greenfield, purporting to
represent the consumers in those cities, filed separate
pleadings in which they asserted that the fund in question
belonged to the consumers.
The court, without hearing evidence, denied the relief
prayed by Central by an order which was stated to be
"without prejudice" to Central's "making claim of adjustment with the cities of Muscatine, Greenfield, Knoxville and Pella . . . or with the consumers of gas furnished by it in said cities." The reason stated for making
the order was that the court was without jurisdiction to
hear Central's claim since it involved a determination of
"the reasonableness of petitioner's rates" and further since
the court had previously ruled that the refund belonged
to the ultimate consumers. In a separate order entered
the same day, the court directed payment of the sum in
question to the treasurers of the several cities in specified

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

143

Opinion of the Court.

amounts. It fixed the amount allocated to Muscatine at
81% of the fund, apparently relying upon the allegation
of the petition that more than 81% of the gas purchased
from Pipeline was delivered to consumers in that city. It
apparently failed to give consideration to the allegation
that less than 121 2% of the gas sold in Knoxville and
Pella was natural gas. The order recited that the fund
belonged to the ultimate consumers and that the court
desired to pay it at the earliest possible time to "such
parties as are entitled to the same, and to permit of a determination of said rights by a court or body having jurisdiction thereof." Thereafter Central filed a supplemental
petition setting forth that, except for the stay order, Central would have retained the sum in question; that Central was the only party in privity with Pipeline and was,
therefore, entitled to the benefit of the rate reduction,
and that the bond filed pursuant to the court's order called
for payment of the refund to purchasers at wholesale, one
of whom was Central. It further attacked the jurisdiction
of the court to award the sum to Central's ultimate consumers since such an award amounted to a retroactive
reduction of local rates to which the Natural Gas Act, by
express terms, did not apply, and, finally, asserted that the
court ought not to make the award based on a conclusion of fact unsupported by any evidence that the burden of the excessive rates had been passed on to the consumers whereas the court, at the same time, disclaimed
jurisdiction to determine the reasonableness of local rates
and, therefore, refused to hear evidence of Central's equitable right to the fund. Muscatine and the Mayor of
Greenfield responded. The court denied the petition
without hearing or argument.
The court below was right in its view that as a federal
court it had no power, at least in the absence of federal
legislation purporting to confer such power upon it, to fix
or adjust Central's rates, that being a legislative function

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

of the State of Iowa. This would be so where the fund in
dispute came into its possession in a proceeding to enjoin
the operation of an order affecting state rates,' and must
be equally true where the proceeding was one to enjoin
collection of a rate for interstate service. This, because
the court below had no power as a court of equity to fix
rates, and as a federal court had no power to adjudicate
a matter within the legislative competence of Iowa. The
court below so held in this case, and has dealt with the
matter more fully and to the same effect in another.4
The Natural Gas Act clearly discloses that, though its
purpose may have been to protect the ultimate consumer
at retail, the means adopted was limited to the regulation
of sales in interstate commerce at wholesale, leaving to the
states the function of regulating the intrastate distribution
and sale of the commodity. That Congress intended to
leave intrastate transactions to state regulation is clear,
not only from the language of the Act,5 but from the exceptionally explicit legislative record,' and from this
Court's decisions.
The showing made by the petitioner's pleadings, and not
denied, is that in Iowa rates are set by municipal ordinance; that the rates collected from consumers during the
refund period were the lawful rates, so fixed; and that the
sums impounded were deducted from the payments to
Pipeline by Central out of its own funds. The only reply
Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290
U. S. 264, 271, 272.
4Natural Gas Pipeline Co. v. Federal Power Commission, 141 F.
2d 27.
5
See, e. g., § 2 (8), 15 U. S. C. § 717 (a) (8); § 5 (a), 15 U. S. C.
§ 717d (a); § 13, 15 U. S. C. § 7171; § 14a, 15 U. S. C. § 717m (a);
§ 15a, 15 U. S. C. § 717n (a); § 17 (a), 15 U. S. C. § 717 (p).
6H. R. No. 709, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1-3.
. Public Utilities Comm'n v. United Fuel Gas Co., 317 U. S. 456,
467; Federal Power Comm'n v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591,
609-610.

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

145

Opinion of the Court.

made by the municipal authorities is that the fund belongs
to the ultimate consumers. Whether this is so, whether
under Iowa law reparation may be demanded for sums
paid by consumers under a standing rate, we do not know.
Nor do we know who are proper parties under Iowa law to
any proceeding to determine the relative rights of petitioner and its customers. Certainly these are questions of
Iowa, not of federal, law.
We are of opinion that the court below lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate the question of the consumers' rights in
the fund in dispute. United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S.
183, on which the respondents rely, is obviously distinguishable. There the fund impounded was part of the
charges paid to the stockyard merchants by persons who
had been charged the rates found by the Secretary of
Agriculture to be excessive. Here, since the fund represents a portion of sums paid by Central to Pipeline out
of Central's funds and pursuant to contract with Pipeline,
the Morgan case would be authority for repayment to
Central. This is true also of Inland Steel Co. v. United
States, 306 U. S. 153. Moreover, if Central had paid
Pipeline the excessive rates, the latter could not have
defended a suit by Central to recover the excess on the
ground that Central had passed on the burden to its
customers.'
The ultimate consumers' rights being such as the law
of Iowa affords, there is no reason for the payment of the
fund to municipalities or municipal officers under a quasi
trust for those found ultimately entitled, thus placing the
burden on Central to pursue the cities or their officers
for its recovery. An order to this effect is certainly not
within the court's jurisdiction as a federal court of equity.
The most the court below should do, in view of the apparent controversy as to the consumers' right to a refund of
S

Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944
BLACK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

rates heretofore paid to Central, is to order that the fund
be held for a reasonable time to permit interested persons
to litigate the issue in a tribunal having jurisdiction, the
order to be conditioned that if such litigation is not instituted within a reasonable time, and prosecuted to final
adjudication, the fund shall be paid over to Central, and
that if it be adjudged as a result of such litigation that
Central is indebted to its consumers because of the reduction of wholesale rates in this proceeding, further application may be made to the court as to its disposition.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The primary purpose of Congress in passing the Natural
Gas Act was to protect ultimate consumers of gas from
excessive prices. Federal Power Commission v. Hope
Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 610, 612. The Court's decision today defeats that Congressional purpose, for under its interpretation of the Act the petitioner, a retail gas
distributor, is awarded a windfall,' at the expense of the
very consumers the Act was designed to protect..
On September 23, 1938, a petition praying for reduction
of the wholesale gas rates of the Natural Gas Pipeline
Company was filed with the Federal Power Commission.
July 23, 1940, the Commission ordered the Company to
make reductions in its future rates. The Circuit Court of
Appeals, upon the Company's petition, then granted a
stay pending litigation. Later, it stayed enforcement of
the order. 120 F. 2d 625. As a condition of its stay, the
Circuit Court of Appeals required the Company to execute a million dollar bond running to the Federal Power
1 The court below refused to construe the Natural Gas Act so as to
make this petitioner "the beneficiary of a windfall, to which it intends to hold on, once it can get possession of it."

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

147

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Commission and the Illinois Commerce Commission. On
March 16, 1942, this Court reversed the cause and sustained the Commission's order. 315 U. S. 575.
Subsequently, $6,377,913.57 was paid into the court by
the Pipeline Company, this being the amount it had collected, pending the litigation, from Illinois, Nebraska, and
Iowa gas distributing companies, in excess of the rates
fixed by the Commission.
The Pipeline Company, and all of the distributing companies except petitioner here and one small company in
Nebraska,' acquiesced in the holding of the court below
that the funds thus impounded properly belonged to the
ultimate consumers, and should be refunded to them. All
of this amount, $6,377,913.57, except for the $25,708.54
now ordered by this Court to be paid to the petitioner, has
been distributed to the ultimate consumers.3
The Court holds that the disposition of such funds must
be made in accordance with state law and that the Circuit
Court of Appeals was without jurisdiction to dispose of
company subsequently settled with its consumers by turning
over to them approximately 70% of the funds allocable to its purchases.
3June 30, 1942, after a notice had been issued to petitioner Central, the Court held that all refunds "belong to the consumers, for
whose benefit these proceedings were instituted." Central did not
actually intervene until fourteen months later. With reference to
this delay of Central's the court below said in its June 30, 1942 order
that "Nebraska City and all other utilities stood by and accepted
the situation as it was tendered by the pleadings and the parties.
Now one or two of these utilities located where no State Supervisory
Commission exists, are endeavoring to seize the fruits of the litigation brought for the consumers and retain the money for their own
individual gain. It would be a gross travesty upon the proceedings,
the outcome, if they were to succeed. With their efforts in this respect, we have no sympathy." Without going into a narration of
what later occurred, I am of opinion that the court rightfully denied
Central's intervention on the ground that it had long since decided
the question. The importance of the rule announced by the court,
however, prompts me to discuss it.
2This

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

them as it did. Until today, this Court seems never to
have doubted that "it is a power 'inherent in every court of
justice so long as it retains control of the subject matter
and of the parties, to correct that which has been wrongfully done by virtue of its process'." United States v.
Morgan, 307 U. S. 183, 197. Here, consumers of gas have
been injured by a federal court order staying the Federal
Power Commission's 1940 rate cut. In 1942, this Court
sustained the Commission's order. 315 U. S. 575. At that
time, the Pipeline Company contended before this Court
that if the Commission's rate order should be sustained,
the fund accumulated as a result of the stay should be retained by it, and should not be turned over to the distributing companies because "the purpose of the rate
regufation is the protection of consumers and . . . will
not be effectuated by refunds to wholesalers" of their
"profits for past business." Upon our remand of the cause
for further proceedings, the Pipeline Company petitioned
the court below to take jurisdiction of the excess funds.
That court held, in impounding the fund here involved,
that since it was authorized by §§ 19 (b) and (c) of the
Act to issue a stay pending review of the Commission's
rate order, it had a mandatory obligation as a court of
equity "to determine to whom and in what amounts the
distribution shall be made." This holding was in accord
with "the governing principle that it is the duty of a court
of equity granting injunctive relief to do so upon conditions that will protect all-including the public-whose
interests the injunction may affect." Inland Steel Co. v.
United States, 306 U. S. 153, 157.
The injury to the consumers here did not stem from
state law or the action of a state court; it was the direct
result of stay orders made by a federal court. These
orders, which permitted the Pipeline Company to continue
to charge rates which the Commission had determined to
be excessive, to the detriment of ultimate consumers, were

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

149

BLACK, J., dissenting.

issued under the provisions of the Natural Gas Act. The
injuries here were therefore occasioned by the application
of federal law in a federal court, and raised federal, and
not state law questions. For a federal court to remedy this
injury by affording that protection to consumers which the
act contemplated, cannot, in my judgment, be said to
amount to a regulation of local gas rates.
The Natural Gas Act contemplates that federal reduction of wholesale gas rates to distributors will be reflected
in reduction of retail rates to the ultimate consumers.
Information before the Congress when it passed the Natural Gas Act showed that a large percentage of the retail
cost of gas was attributable to the wholesale cost.' Thus
the wholesale cost is a critical element in a state proceeding to regulate retail cost. An effective order of the Federal Power Commission reducing wholesale costs affords
local consumers a basis for a corresponding retail reduction. But a federal rate reduction order cannot be utilized
before state regulatory agencies where the federal reduction order has been stayed by a federal court. Thus, during the three years that the Power Commission's rate reduction was held in abeyance pursuant to the stay orders,
the Iowa consumers were deprived of the opportunity to
obtain a reduction of their rates from the local regulatory
agencies. The City of Muscatine, Iowa, promptly passed
an ordinance reducing local gas rates after vacation of
the orders staying enforcement of the Power Commission's
rate reduction.
Ultimate consumers can secure benefits from a federal
rate reduction in two ways: (1) by using the order to get
4See Final Report of the Federal Trade Commission to the Senate,
Sen. Doc. 92, Part 84-A, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 611, 612; Cong.
Record, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., vol. 81, pp. 6723, 6725, 6728; Hearings
Before the House Committee on Interstate & Foreign Commerce, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 4008, pp. 27, 38-39, 56--57; Hearing on H. R.
11662, House Subcommittee on Interstate & Foreign Commerce, 74th
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 25, 34-35, 81.
637582o--46-

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

reduced rates before their local regulatory bodies; (2) by
the impounding of funds for their benefit if a judicial stay
of the federal reduction order is granted. The stay deprived these local consumers of a chance to use the Com-

mission's order to obtain a local rate reduction. The holding of this Court partially, if not completely, deprives
them of the benefits of the impounded funds. Cf. First
National Bank v. Flershem, 290 U. S. 504, 520.

To deny petitioner distributing company a refund of
the impounded monies would impose no deprivation upon
it. Petitioner's local rates were fixed by a Muscatine city
ordinance, to which rates the petitioner alleges it voluntarily agreed. That schedule of rates, petitioner argues,
was "presumptively reasonable." 5 Petitioner admits
that Iowa law requires the wholesale cost of gas to be one
of the factors considered in determining the reasonableness of rates.' The petitioner's rates must therefore be
considered reasonable on the basis of the old wholesale
price of gas, and any increment above those rates is a
"windfall."
Furthermore, the petitioner says it was free under Iowa
law to attack the rates at any time as too low. This it
never did. Instead, it refrained from doing so until this
Court had sustained the Commission's order reducing
wholesale rates, and until the Circuit Court of Appeals
had adjudged that the monies belonged to the consumers.
Not until then did it file its intervention claim for the impounded funds. The reason for this delay is not difficult
to find. Petitioner, in arguing here that it should get
5 Petitioner cites in support of its argument, Iowa Railway & Light
Co. v. Jones Auto Co., 182 Iowa 982, 164 N. W. 780; Town of Williams
v. Iowa Falls Electric Co., 185 Iowa 493, 170 N. W. 815; Knotts v.
Nollen, 206 Iowa 261, 218 N. W. 563; Mapleton v. Iowa Public Service
Co., 209 Iowa 400, 223 N. W. 476.
" See Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 144 Iowa 426, 120
N. W. 966, aff'd 223 U. S. 655.

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

151

BLACK, J., dissenting.

this impounded fund, asserts that under Iowa law "municipalities may only fix rates prospectively." Iowa cases
cited by the petitioner' seem to give some support to this
contention, especially when considered with decisions of
this Court dealing with analogous statutory situations.'
I am therefore unable to see much likelihood of these consumers obtaining relief in the Iowa state courts for the injury they have suffered as a result of the federal court's
action in granting a stay of the Federal Power Commission's order.
If my previous analysis is correct, the rule announced
by the Court today means simply this: So long as litigation can be kept pending in the courts as to the validity
of a Federal Power Commission rate reduction order, the
benefits of the Natural Gas Act will be suspended as to
ultimate consumers, and will be largely, if not exclusively,
restricted to retail distributors.' Thus, by a strange quirk
of statutory construction, the effort of Congress to protect
consumers from excessive rates is transformed, where litigation is pending, into an Act which exploits consumers
and unjustly enriches distributing companies. This Company has already received a reasonable compensation for
7See note 5, supra.
8

Cf. Public Utilities Commission v. United Fuel Gas Co., 317 U. S.

456; Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 284 U. S.
370, 389.
9 When a rate schedule embodying a proposed increase in wholesale
rates becomes effective, pending a determination by the Commission
of the reasonableness of such increase, the Commission is authorized to
require appropriate guarantees by § 4 (e) of the Act. The Commission may require the natural gas companies ". . . to furnish a
bond, to be approved by the Commission, to refund any amounts
ordered by the Commission, to keep accurate accounts in detail of all
amounts received by reason of such increase, specifying by whom and
in whose behalf such amounts were paid . . ." This would appear
to be broad enough to protect consumers where the amounts were
paid in their behalf. Surely the Act gives no less power to a court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

its services. It is entitled to no more under Iowa or federal law.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE Concur in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting.

I think that the claims to the fund in possession of the
court below are to be determined by state law. The Federal Power Commission has no authority to determine the
rates which petitioner may charge in these Iowa cities.
Under the Natural Gas Act that is for Iowa and Iowa
alone to determine. Public Utilities Commission v.
United Fuel Gas Co., 317 U. S. 456, 467; Federal Power
Commission v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 610.
In that respect this case differs markedly from United
States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183. If there had been no
stay order entered and the interstate rate from the Pipeline company to petitioner had been reduced when the
Federal Power Commission entered its order, it still would
have taken action by the local authorities to reduce the
rates in these Iowa cities.
But the federal court which has this fund has considerable discretion in its management. United States v. Morgan, supra. I fail to see how it abused its discretion in
handing the fund over to the local officials. It is only
fair to assume that a reduction in the interstate rate would
have been followed by a reduction in local rates.' That
indeed was the primary objective of the Natural Gas Act.
Federal Power Commission v. Hope Natural Gas Co.,
supra. We are pointed to no provision of local law which
raises any substantial question concerning the power of
the local authorities to make a readjustment of rates
1 The City of Muscatine did in fact reduce the rates after the stay

order had been vacated.

CENTRAL STATES CO. v. MUSCATINE.
138

DOUGLAS,

153

J., dissenting.

through the distribution of funds impounded under a stay
order.2 And the claim of petitioner that the local law
would prevent a reduction in its rates for the period while
the stay order was in effect is far too vague to acquire the
dignity of a substantial question.' He who maintains that
position has the distinct burden of overcoming the presumption that as a matter of local law the consumers were
entitled to the benefits of this rate reduction. Petitioner
fails to carry that burden. The record is void of any
credible evidence that a reduction in the interstate rate
would not have warranted a reduction in local rates.
Petitioner is adequately protected by the decree entered
by the court below. That court did not undertake finally
to determine the rights of the parties in the fund. It has
turned the fund over to respondents without prejudice to
petitioner's rights in it. Those rights are determinable
under Iowa law. That procedure does not preclude petitioner from its day in an Iowa court if its claim to the
fund turns out to be less frivolous and more substantial
than it appears to be. I think the court below selected
the most equitable and just method of rectifying the
injury done by its stay order.
2 Petitioner asserts, and I assume, that under the Iowa law rates
can be made only prospectively. But it appears from Town of Williams v. Iowa Falls Electric Co., 185 Iowa 493, 500, 170 N. W. 815,
that the Iowa courts under their "balance of convenience" rule will
impound alleged excessive amounts collected by a utility company
pending the outcome of rate litigation so as to protect the rights
both of the utility and the consumers. If the rate increase is ultimately disallowed, the impounded funds will be returned to the customers; otherwise they will be turned over to the company. We
are pointed to no authority which suggests that Iowa would not
sanction the use of such a method of readjustment under the circumstances of this case.
3So far as appears the rates which petitioner was charging during
the period of the stay order had been voluntarily proposed by it.

