OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

COLORADO-WYOMING GAS CO. v. FEDERAL

POWER COMMISSION

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 575.

Argued January 30, 1945.-Decided April 2, 1945.

1. Wholesales to distributors within a State of natural gas which the
wholesaler purchases within the State, but which moves in a continuous stream across state lines to the local distributors, are in
interstate commerce and subject to regulation under the Natural
Gas Act. P. 630.
2. The rate reduction ordered by the Commission in this case is sustained to the extent that it reflects a valid reduction in the rates
of a company from which the petitioner purchases gas; but as to
the balance of the rate reduction, the judgment approving the rate
reduction order is reversed because of inadequate findings by the
Commission. P. 634.
142 F. 2d 943, affirmed in part; reversed in part.
CERTMORARI,

323 U. S. 701, to review the affirmance of a

rate order of the Federal Power Commission under the
Natural Gas Act.
Mr. Donald C. McCreery, with whom Messrs. Paul W.
Lee, George H. Shaw and Wm. A. Bryans, III were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles V. Shannon, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, Messrs. Chester

T. Lane, Paul A. Sweeney, Harry S. Littman, Stanley
M. Morley and Louis J. O'Marr, Attorney General of
Wyoming, for the Federal Power Conmission et al.,

respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case is a companion case to Colorado Interstate
Gas Co. v. FederalPower Commission and CanadianRiver

COLORADO-WYOMING CO. v. COMM'N.
626

627

Opinion of the Court.

Gas Co. v. FederalPower Commission, ante, p. 581. Petitioner began operations in 1925. Until 1929 petitioner
obtained its entire supply from the Wellington Field of
the Continental Oil Co., near Ft. Collins, Colorado. Its
transmission line ran from that point north to Cheyenne,
Wyoming. The Wellington Field began to diminish. So
petitioner, in October, 1929, entered into a twenty-year
contract with Colorado Interstate to purchase gas from it,
the gas to be delivered to petitioner at its metering station
near Littleton, Colorado. Accordingly, in 1929 and 1930
petitioner constructed a pipeline between Ft. Collins,
Colorado, and Littleton, Colorado, where connection was
made with Colorado Interstate's transmission system.
Between 1929 and 1939 branch lines were constructed to
serve various cities, towns, and industrial customers in
Colorado. At the present time all but two per cent of its
gas is obtained from Colorado Interstate. Petitioner sells
gas at the Cheyenne city gate to its affiliate Cheyenne
Light, Fuel and Power Co. It also sells directly to industrial consumers in Colorado and to some extent in Wyoming. And it sells gas at various city gates in Colorado
for resale.
The investigation and hearings on the interstate wholesale rates of Canadian, Colorado Interstate and petitioner
were consolidated. As we have seen, the Commission
ordered Canadian to reduce its rates by $561,000 per year.
That amount made up part of the $2,065,000 annual reduction which the Commission ordered in the rates of
Colorado Interstate. In the present case the Commission
found that petitioner's revenues were $159,000 in excess
of costs and a fair return and that $119,000 of that excess
were allocable to petitioner's sales for resale. The Commission ordered petitioner to reduce its wholesale rates
by $119,000 a year (43 P. U. R. (N. S.) 205, 234). That
does not represent the net decrease in revenue, since the
Commission ordered Colorado Interstate to reduce its

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

rates to petitioner by $98,000 a year. Accordingly, the
net decrease in revenues of petitioner will be $21,000 if
the Commission's order stands. The petition for certiorari which we granted to review the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the order of the Commission (142 F. 2d 943) was limited to the question
whether the allocation of cost of service used by the Commission is without support in the record and contrary
to law.
The Commission in this case as in Colorado Interstate
Gas Co. v. FederalPoiver Commission and CanadianRiver
Gas Co. v. Federal Power Commission did not make a
separation of properties used in the regulated business
from those used in the unregulated. It used instead the
same method of allocation of costs as it did in those
other cases. Petitioner contends that the Commission's
method of allocation of costs included in the regulated
business a part of its business which Congress has not subjected to regulation by the Commission. As we have
noted, petitioner's transmission line commences in Colorado near Littleton where it connects with the pipeline
of Colorado Interstate. Petitioner sells some of its gas
in Colorado for resale to domestic users in certain towns
in Colorado. The Commission held that those wholesale
sales were subject to its jurisdiction. Petitioner contends
that those sales are made in intrastate commerce and are
not subject to the Commission's rate-making powers. Its
position is that the one and only sale for resale by it in
interstate commerce is the sale at the city gate in Cheyenne, since none of the Colorado sales involve interstate
commerce so far as petitioner is concerned.
The answer turns on the meaning of § 1 (b) of the Act
(52 Stat. 821, 15 U. S. C. § 717) which provides:
"(b) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, to
the sale in interstate commerce of natural gas for resale
for ultimate public consumption for domestic, commercial,

COLORADO-WYOMING CO. v. COMM'N.
626

629

Opinion of the Court.

industrial, or any other use, and to natural-gas companies
engaged in such transportation or sale, but shall not apply
to any other transportation or sale of natural gas or to
the local distribution of natural gas or to the facilities used
for such distribution or to the production or gathering of
natural gas."
The Commission relied on Illinois Gas Co. v. Central
Illinois Co., 314 U. S. 498, in concluding that it had jurisdiction over the wholesale sales in Colorado. That case
presented the question whether the Illinois Commission or
the Federal Power Commission had authority to authorize
a pipeline extension wholly within Illinois. The company
proposing the extension (Illinois Gas Co.) owned a pipeline system wholly in Illinois which was connected at various points in that State with the pipeline of its parent company, Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co., which owned and
operated a natural gas pipeline system from gas fields in
Texas, Kansas and Oklahoma across Illinois and into
Indiana. The Illinois company purchased its gas under
a long term contract from Panhandle Eastern and transported it through its own lines to local gas distributing
utilities in Illinois to which it sold the gas for distribution
to consumers in various Illinois cities. We held that the
Illinois company by virtue of § 7 (c) of the Act' could
I Sec. 7 (c) provides in part:
"No natural-gas company shall undertake the construction or extension of any facilities for the transportation of natural gas to a
market in which natural gas is already being served by another
natural-gas company, or acquire or operate any such facilities or extensions thereof, or engage in transportation by means of any new or
additional facilities, or sell natural gas in any such market, unless and
until there shall first have been obtained from the Commission a
certificate that the present or future public convenience and necessity
require or will require such new construction or operation of any such
facilities or extensions thereof: . . ."
A natural-gas company is defined in § 2 (6) as a "person engaged in
the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, or the sale
in interstate commerce of such gas for resale."
637582 °-46-----44

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

build an extension to connect with the facilities of a company distributing gas to consumers in Illinois only after
obtaining a certificate of public convenience and necessity
from the Federal Power Commission. We held that the
Illinois company and Panhandle Eastern were engaged
"in interstate commerce in the purchase and sale of the
natural gas which moves in a continuous stream from
points without the state" into the pipes of the Illinois
company; and that "the particular point at which the title
and custody of the gas pass to the purchaser, without arresting its movement to the intended destination, does
not affect the essential interstate nature of the business."
314 U. S. pp. 503, 504. We pointed out that the purpose
of the Act was to provide "an agency for regulating the
wholesale distribution to public service companies of
natural gas moving interstate, which this Court had declared to be interstate commerce not subject to certain
types of state regulation." Id., p. 506. We reviewed the
earlier decisions of the Court which adopted the mechanical test for determining when interstate commerce ends
and intrastate commerce begins, viz., when the gas is introduced into the service pipes of the local distributor.
We noted that it was to fit the pattern of state regulation
reflected in those decisions that the Natural Gas Act was
passed.
Accordingly, we conclude that if petitioner's pipeline
were to be constructed today from Littleton, Colorado to
the city gates of the Colorado towns where petitioner's
gas is resold, § 7 (c) would require that a certificate of
public convenience and necessity be obtained from the
Commission. For in this case as in Illinois Gas Co. v.
Central Illinois Co., supra, the gas which petitioner purchases from Colorado Interstate moves in a continuous
stream across state lines to local distributing companies
in Colorado as well as Wyoming. If petitioner is engaged
in "the transportation of natural gas in interstate com-

COLORADO-WYOMING CO. v. COMM'N.
626

631

Opinion of the Court.

merce" to those Colorado towns within the meaning of
§ 1 (b), its wholesale sales in Colorado are also sales "in
interstate commerce of natural gas for resale for ultimate
public consumption" as those words are used in § 1 (b).
That commerce does.not end until the gas enters the service pipes of the distributing companies.
Most of the other objections which petitioner raises to
the Commission's method of allocation of costs have been
considered in the cases of Colorado Interstate Gas Co. v.
Federal Power Commission and CanadianRiver Gas Co.
v. FederalPower Commission. We need not repeat what
we said there. But there are a few distinct phases of this
case which must be separately stated.
Petitioner says that the Commission treated it along
with Canadian and Colorado Interstate as an integrated
unit for purposes of the allocation of costs. The inference
is that the Commission combined petitioner's costs with
those of the other two companies and allocated the combined costs three ways. That is not the fact. Petitioner
is independent in management and control from the other
two. Its system was not constructed as part of Canadian's
and Colorado Interstate's system but was started independently and connected with the others at a later stage.
The Commission recognized that in operation the threecompany project was a single one in the sense that an
alteration in Canadian's rates affected the reasonableness
of the rates of Colorado Interstate and in turn the reasonableness of the rates of petitioner. But when it came
to an allocation of costs among petitioner's classes of
business the Commission considered petitioner's costs
alone.
Here as in the cases of Canadian and Colorado Interstate the findings of the Commission leave much to be
desired. The findings are general and incorporate by reference the staff exhibits, on which reliance is put for the
subsidiary findings. But in this case there are added dif-

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ficulties. The staff used one system, the Commission
another. As the Commission said, the staff "departed
from the use of the system peak day for allocating demand (fixed) costs and combined the separate class peaks
of resale customers and of main line industrial customers." 43 P. U. R. (N. S.) p. 233. The Commission
thought a different method would be in keeping with petitioner's operations. It said: "The Colorado Portland
Cement Company, the principal main line industrial user,
is curtailed regularly during system peak days. Its demand on the system peak day is, in our opinion, a proper
measure of its proportionate share of demand costs than
its highest off-peak demand. Accordingly, the principles
and methods of cost allocation presented by Commission
staff are adopted with the modification that the coincident
demands of all customers on the system peak day are used,
and with exception of deliveries to Highway Gas Company." 43 P. U. R. (N. S.) p. 234. When we read that
finding against the record there are ambiguities which we
are unable to resolve were it our province to do so.
(1) The "system peak day" is February 9, 1939-the
same day chosen for Canadian and Colorado Interstate.
We know from our search of the record that is not the
actual peak day in 1939 for petitioner's business. We are
told by the Commission in its brief that it is the ratio of
deliveries to the regulable and non-regulable customers
rather than total deliveries that determines the allocation of capacity costs. But there are no findings which
indicate why the system peak day for other companies
should be taken as the system peak day for this company.
Nor are there any findings which indicate that the ratio on
the system peak day is a more reliable guide in the allocation of costs than the ratio on the actual peak day of
this company.
(2) The Commission says it allocated capacity costs
on the basis of the "coincident demands of all customers

COLORADO-WYOMING CO. v. COMM'N.
626

633

Opinion of the Court.

on the system peak day." It said that Colorado Portland Cement Co. is "curtailed regularly during system
peak days" and that its "demand" on that day is the
proper measure of its proportionate share of capacity
costs. We assume it meant by "coincident demands" on
the system peak day, the amount of gas actually delivered
on that day, not the customers' respective needs for gas
on that day. But when we turn to the record there are
ambiguities. The staff exhibit on which the Commission
apparently relied designates as one classification the
"maximum day deliveries on Colorado Interstate Gas
Co. peak day-Thurs., Feb. 9, 1939." Under that heading we compute 1,777 Mcf to direct-sale customers and
9,009 Mef to resale customers on February 9, 1939. The
Commission in its brief tells us that that was the basis on
which it allocated capacity costs, viz. 83.5 per cent to the
resale gas, 16.5 per cent to the direct-sale gas. But there is
evidence in the record that the direct-sale customers re.ceived on February 9, 1939 not 1,777 Mcf but only 522
Mcf. If we use 522 Mef rather than 1,777 Mcf in our
computations we shift to the interstate wholesale sales
almost $21,000 additional costs. Now the net rate decrease ordered by the Commission in this case amounted
to $21,000. Hence that net decrease substantially disappears if we take 522 Mcf rather than 1,777 Mcf as the

amount of direct sales on Feb. 9, 1939. The choice of the
lower figure would thus be fatal to the Commission's
case.
We do not know why the lower figure was rejected.
There are no findings to guide us. In the record there is
testimony which may suffice as a partial reconciliation of
the difference and which casts some doubts on the accuracy of the lower figure. But we have been unable
completely to reconcile the difference. We do know from
a reading of the record that the staff exhibit from which
the 1,777 Mef item was obtained was based at lea.t in

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

part on averages or estimates, not on actual deliveries. It
is not clear whether 1,777 Mcf rested on estimates or
reflected actual deliveries by petitioner on Feb. 9, 1939.
The caption "maximum day deliveries on Colorado Interstate Gas Co. peak day-Thurs., Feb. 9, 1939" is ambiguous. It may mean that the gas delivered to petitioner
by Colorado Interstate on that day was apportioned
among the several classes of customers according to their
actual use on that day. It may mean actual deliveries by
petitioner during that day. The figures may or may not
be the same.
The review which Congress has provided for these rate
orders is limited. Sec. 19 (b) says that the "finding of
the Commission as to the facts, if supported by substantial
evidence, shall be conclusive." But we must first know
what the "finding" is before we can give it that conclusive
weight. We have repeatedly emphasized the need for
clarity and completeness in the basic or essential findings
on which administrative orders rest. Florida v. United
States, 282 U. S. 194, 215; United States v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 293 U. S. 454, 464; United States v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499, 504-505, 510-511;
United States v. Carolina CarriersCorp., 315 U. S. 475,
488-489. Their absence can only clog the administrative
function and add to the delays in rate-making. We cannot dispense with them for Congress has provided the
standards for judicial review under this Act. § 19 (b).
The courts cannot perform the function which Congress
assigned to them in absence of adequate findings. Nor
are they authorized under § 19 (b) to make findings and
substitute them for those of the Commission.
We think it is plain that $98,000 of the rate decrease
ordered by the Commission in this case is valid since it
reflects the reduction in the rates of Colorado Interstate
from whom petitioner purchases practically all of its gas.
But the balance of the $119,000 rate decrease which was

PANHANDLE CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
626

635

Syllabus.

ordered, viz. $21,000, is so shrouded in doubt that further
findings by the Commission are necessary.
Accordingly, we affirm the judgment below insofar as it
sustained the order of the Commission directing petitioner
to reduce its rates by $98,000. As to the balance of the
rate reduction, we reverse the judgment below, set aside
the order of the Commission, and remand the cause for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
See § 19 (b).
It is so ordered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE
REED, and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER are of the opinion

that the case should be remanded to the Commission for
separate allocation of investment and operating cost between the regulable and nonregulable properties, as well
as for the clarification of findings directed in the opinion.
They agree that the deliveries to wholesalers in Colorado
are in interstate commerce.
PANHANDLE EASTERN PIPE LINE CO. ET AL. V.
FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 296. Argued January 29, 1945.-Decided April 2, 1945.
1. Under § 19 (b) of the Natural Gas Act, providing for review of
orders of the Commission by the circuit courts of appeals, an objection that the natural gas company is not located and does not
have its principal place of business in the circuit in which the proceeding was brought goes not to the jurisdiction but only to the
venue, and is too late when raised for the first time after judgment.
P. 638.
2. In the exceptional circumstances of this case, the Federal Power
Commission, in determining reductions in interstate wholesale rates
of a natural gas company whose business consisted of direct industrial sales (unregulated) as well as interstate wholesales (regulated),

