18

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

FONDREN ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 88. Argued December 11, 12, 1944.-Decided January 29,1945.
1. Irrevocable trusts for the benefit of minors provided for distribution of specified percentages when the beneficiaries reached the
ages of 25 and 30 and of the remainder when they reached 35.
The trustee was authorized to apply income and corpus toward
maintenance and education of the beneficiaries if, contrary to expectations, necessity therefor should arise. Held that gifts to the
trusts were gifts of "future interests in property," within the
meaning of § 504 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932 and Treasury
Regulations 79, so that the $5,000 exclusion prescribed by that
section was not allowable. P. 24.
2. To bring the statutory exclusion into force, it is not enough that
the donee has acquired vested rights; he must have the right
presently to use, possess, or enjoy the property. P. 20.
3. The fact that the beneficiary is specified and in esse, or that the
amount of the gift is definite and certain, does not render the
statutory exclusion applicable, where enjoyment of the property
is postponed. P. 26.
4. Section 504 (b) makes no distinction between gifts for the benefit of minors and gifts to adults. P. 28.
5. It does not follow from the result here reached that the statutory exclusion would not be applicable in any case to gifts for the
benefit of minors. P. 29.
6. A settled construction of a statute, which Congress has reenacted, should be followed. P. 29.
141 F. 2d 419, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 685, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 1036, sustaining the
Commissioner's assessment of a deficiency in gift taxes.

Mr. W. M. Cleaves, with whom Mr. E. E. Townes was
on the brief, for petitioners.

FONDREN v. COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

18

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clarke, Jr.
and Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1935, 1936 and 1937 petitioner, Ella F. Fondren, and
her husband, since deceased, created seven separate irrevocable trusts, each in favor of a grandchild of tender
years; and each of them made gifts to each trust of corporate stock having the fair market value of $5,975. The
donors made gift tax returns for 1937, claiming the statutory exclusion of $5,000 for each gift, and accordingly
reported taxable gifts for each trust of $975. Gift taxes
were paid on this basis.
The Commissioner made deficiency assessments, disallowing the exclusions on the ground that the gifts Were
of "future interests in property" within the meaning of
the Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, and Treasury Regulations 79 (1936 ed.). 1 The Tax Court upheld
the Commissioner, the cases being consolidated for hearing and decision. 1 T. C. 1036. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the Tax Court's decision, one judge dissenting. 141 F. 2d 419. Certiorari was granted, 323
U. S. 685, because of the importance of the question as
1 The

statute is as follows:

"Sec. 504. Net Gifts.
"(a) General Definition.-The term 'net gifts' means the total
amount of gifts made during the calendar year, less the deductions
provided in section 505.
"(b) Gilts Less Than $5,000.-In the case of gifts (other than of
future interests in property) made to any person by the donor during the calendar year, the first $5,000 of such gifts to such person
shall not, for the purposes of subsection (a), be included in the total
amount of gifts made during such year."
The pertinent part of the Regulation is quoted in the text below.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

affecting the taxability of gifts made for the benefit of
minor children and because of alleged or apparent conflict
with decisions of other courts.2
The sole issue is whether the gifts were of "future interests" within the meaning of the statute and the regulation. The latter provides:
"Art. 11. . . . 'Future interests' is a legal term, and includes reversions, remainders, and other interests or estates, whether vested or contingent, and whether or not
supported by a particular interest or estate, which are
limited to commence in use, possession, or enjoyment at
some future date or time. . . ." (Emphasis added.)
Upon the facts the issue turns on whether the interests
acquired by the minor beneficiaries were "limited to commence in use, possession, or enjoyment at some future
date or time." Ryerson v. United States, 312 U. S. 405;
United States v. Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399.
Under these decisions it is not enough to bring the exclusion into force that the donee has vested rights. In
addition he must have the right presently to use, possess
or enjoy the property. These terms are not words of art,
like "fee" in the law of seizin, United States v. Pelzer,
supra, at 403, but connote the right to substantial present economic benefit. The question is of time, not when
title vests, but when enjoyment begins. Whatever puts
the barrier of a substantial period between the will of
the beneficiary or donee now to enjoy what has been
2 The petition alleged conflict with Smith v. Commissioner, 131 F.
2d 254 (C. C. A. 8th); Sensenbrenner v. Commissioner, 134 F. 2d
883 (C. C. A. 7th); and Kinney v. Anglim, 43 F. Supp. 431 (N. D.
Calif.). Cf. also Disston v. Commissioner, 144 F. 2d 115 (C. C. A.
3d). The decision, one judge dissenting, overruled the prior decision
in Commissioner v. Taylor, 122 F. 2d 714, cert. denied, 314 U. S.
699. A petition for writ of certiorari was filed in the Disston case
on October 12, 1944, and now is pending.

FONDREN v. COMMISSIONER.
18

Opinion of the Court.

given him and that enjoyment makes the gift one of a
future interest within the meaning of the regulation.
Accordingly, it has been held that if the income of a
trust is required to be distributed periodically, as annually, but distribution of the corpus is deferred, the gift
of the income is one of a present interest, that of the corpus one in futuro. Fisher v. Commissioner, 132 F. 2d
383; Sensenbrenner v. Commissioner, 134 F. 2d 883. A
fortiori,if income is to be accumulated and paid over with
the corpus at a later time, the entire gift is of a future interest,3 although upon specified contingency some portion or all of the fund may be paid over earlier. The
contingency may be the exercise of the trustee's discretion, either absolute or contingent.' It may also be the
need of the beneficiary, not existing when the trust or gift
takes effect legally, but arising later upon anticipated
though unexpected conditions, either to create a duty
in the trustee to pay over or to permit him to do so in his
discretion.6
In the light of these principles and decisions, it is necessafy to consider the terms of the trusts and the circum3 Welch v. Paine, 120 F. 2d 141; Commissioner v. Taylor, 122 F.
2d 714, 715, cert. denied, 314 U. S. 699; Commissioner v. Brandegee,
123 F. 2d 58; Commissioner v. Phillips' Estate, 126 F. 2d 851; Commissioner v. Gardner, 127 F. 2d 929; Welch v. Paine, 130 F. 2d 990;
Commissioner v. Wells, 132 F. 2d 405; French v. Commissioner, 138
F. 2d 254; Roberts v. Commissioner, 143 F. 2d 657; Howe v. United
States, 142 F. 2d 310; Hutchings-Sealy National Bank v. Commissioner, 141 F. 2d 422; Helvering v. Blair, 121 F. 2d 945.
4 Ibid.
5 Welch v. Paine, 120 F. 2d 141; Commissioner v. Taylor, 122 F.
2d 714, 715, cert. denied, 314 U. S. 699; Commissioner v. Brandegee,
123 F. 2d 58; Commissioner v. Phillips' Estate, 126 F. 2d 851; Commissioner v. Gardner, 127 F. 2d 929; Winterbotham v. Commissioner,
46 B. T. A. 972; cf. Ryerson v. United States, 312 U. S. 405, 408.
Cf. authorities cited note 3 supra.
637582 °--46

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

stances in which the gifts were made. The trust instruments were substantially uniform except for variations in
the names of the beneficiaries and, in case of death, their
successors in interest. The trusts were irrevocable, the
donors retaining no beneficial interest in the estates.
Each instrument named the donor, W. W. Fondren, as
trustee, and Ella F. Fondren, the other donor, as successor trustee. They reserved the rights as donors to remove
any trustee, except Mr. Fondren, and to name successor
trustees. Subject to these reservations and the directions
set forth below, the trustee was given substantially complete control.
The trusts' stated purpose was "to provide for the personal comfort, support, maintenance, and welfare" of the
grandchildren. But from the explicit recitals of the instruments,7 as well as the evidence, including a stipulation, it is clear that the parents of each child were so situated that, when the gifts were made, they were fully
able to provide for and educate him. And, from the same
recitals, it is clear there was little reason to believe that
any parent would not, continue so until the child's
majority. Accordingly, in each instance, the trust was to
continue until the child should attain the age of thirtyfive. Hence also the income was to be accumulated, except upon the contingencies specified below, and each beneficiary was to receive 25 per cent of the corpus and accumulations at age twenty-five, 331/3 per cent at age
thirty, and the remainder at age thirty-five.
Aware of the uncertainties of our world, however, the
donors directed in Article 3:
"... [T]he Trustee shall provide for the support,
maintenance and education of our said Grandson, using
only the income of said estate for the purpose if it be sufficient. If it be necessary to use any of the corpus of
7

Cf. the recitals quoted in the text below.

FONDREN v. COMMISSIONER.
18

Opinion of the Court.

the estate for that purpose and in the judgment of the
Trustee it is best to do so, said Trustee may make ad-.
vancements out of the corpus of said trust estate for such
purpose for the benefit of our said Grandson.
"It is contemplated, however, that our said Grandson
will have other adequate and sufficient means of support,
and that it will not be necessary to use either the income
or the corpus of the trust estate hereby created to properly provide for his education, maintenance and support;
and, if the income from the trust estate be not needed
for these purposes, then all of the income from said trust
estate not so needed shall be by the Trustee passed to
capital account of said trust estate, and shall be and become a part of said trust estate, it being our hope that
all of the earnings and income of said trust estate during
the period of this trust may be used to augment the trust
estate and be delivered to our said Grandson at the periods herein provided for. It is expressly provided, however, that our said Grandson shall be properly maintained, educated and supported, and if it be necessary to
use all of the income and even all of the corpus of the trust
estate hereby created and all augmentations thereof, it
shall be the duty of the Trustee to see that this obligation shall be properly and reasonably discharged. . ....
(Emphasis added.)
In view of the apparently conflicting terms of this article for use of the corpus, the exact scope of the trustee's
discretion is by no means clear. But this need not be
determined. Whether the disposition is in his judgment
entirely, as the first clause indicates, or under the second
is so only with reference to how much of the fund may
be needed,8 the trustee cannot act in any case to apply
8 Petitioner presents the case as if no discretion whatever were
vested in the trustee as to making the payments over. However,
in the first provision for use of the corpus such use is authorized "if
it be necessary . . .and in the judgment of the Trustee it is best to

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

corpus or income for the support, maintenance and eduVation of the beneficiary until necessity arises.
Under the particular facts, this requirement is important in two respects. It is, as petitioners urge, a limitation upon the trustee's discretion. His power is not unconfined. Even though the existence and amount of need
may be in the first instance for his determination, it does
not follow that, need existing, the trustee arbitrarily
could refuse to make the application. The case therefore
is not one in which present enjoyment is dependent upon
an exercise of the trustee's absolute discretion.
But this does not show, as petitioners seem to think,
that the minor beneficiaries had, at the moment of the
gift, a present right of enjoyment. It rather shows the
contrary-that their right was not absolute and immediate,
but was conditioned, during minority and afterward until
the times specified for distribution, upon a contingency
which might never arise. That contingency, by the explicit terms of the trust, was the existence of need which
was then nonexistent and, in the stated contemplation of
the donors, was not likely to occur in the future, at any rate
during the child's minority. The circumstances surrounding the donors and the donees confirm these recitals. The
case is one therefore in which the gift, if presently vested,
made enjoyment contingent upon the occurrence of future
events, not only uncertain, but by the recitals of the instrument itself improbable of occurrence. The gifts condo so"; in the other provision the duty imposed, "if it be necessary
to use all of the income and even all of the corpus," is one "to see
that this obligation shall be properly and reasonably discharged."
If the first clause limits the second, the trustee's discretion is bounded
only by what he thinks "it is best to do," and in any event under
the latter his duty is only to see that the obligation is "properly
and reasonably" discharged. Presumably also the trustee would have
some room for judgment on whether particular circumstances would
amount to necessity and particular measures would be required to
meet it.

FONDREN v. COMMISSIONER.
18

Opinion of the Court.

sequently were of "future interests in property" within the
meaning of § 504 (b).
Petitioners' contrary argument, apart from the misconception that legal vesting of the interest without more
satisfies the statute,9 rests chiefly upon considerations arising from the legislative history and from the fact that
gifts for the benefit of children under legal disability to
manage their own property must make provision for its
control by trustees or otherwise.
Special stress is placed on the fact that each gift was
made to or for the benefit of a specifically named beneficiary then in esse and for a definite amount. As the Pelzer
opinion noted, 312 U. S. at 403, the committee reports
recommending the legislation stated: "The exemption being available only in so far as the donees are ascertainable, the denial of the exemption in the case of gifts of
future interests is dictated by the apprehended difficulty,
in many instances, of determining the number of eventual
donees and the values of their respective gifts." 10 (Emphasis added.) And in the Pelzer case the Court found
that the gift involved these difficulties, as well as postponement of enjoyment to the happening of a future uncertain event, since the right of enjoyment was contingent
in any event upon the beneficiaries' surviving the ten-year
period specified for accumulation of income. 312 U. S.
at 404.
9 Several of petitioners' statements of their contentions ignore the
contingency upon which enjoyment is deferred in this case, namely
the occurrence at some future time of the need or necessity of the
beneficiary which would bring the trustee's power or duty to provide
for support or maintenance from the trust fund into play. It is not
necessary to note these contentions specifically further than to say,
in addition to what has been said already, that they assume as the
answer to it the very issue in the case.
10 H. Rep. No. 708, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., 29; S. Rep. No. 665, 72d
Cong., 1st Sess., 41.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Both conclusions would seem applicable in this case, the
chief difference being that the period of postponement,
which the beneficiaries must survive before enjoyment begins, is indefinite rather than for a specified time. That
is true in any case where the length of the period is governed by a contingency. But the regulation, adopted
almost in the language of the committee reports," does
not limit the denial of the exemption to instances where
the deferment of enjoyment is at all events for a period
which is definite and certain. Cf. Commissioner v. Glos,
123 F. 2d 548, 550. Clearly the statute is not to be applied
differently, to grant or deny the exemption, if there is
postponement, merely because in one case the period is
under any eventuality for a certain, specified length of
time, whereas in another it is of uncertain or indefinite
length. The important thing is the certainty of postponement, not certainty of the length of its duration.
Furthermore, if there is postponement, the exemption is
denied whether or not the administrative difficulties anticipated in the committee reports inhere in the particular
gift. Commissioner v. Glos, supra; Welch v. Paine, 120
F. 2d 141. Those reports specifically state these difficulties
are present "in many instances." But they also state that
"the term 'future interests in property' refers to any interest or estate, whether vested or contingent, limited to
commence in possession or enjoyment at a future date." 12
They thus contemplate, as does the regulation framed in
similar terms, vested as well as contingent interests and
estates. And there is nothing to indicate that gifts to
specified donees in esse and in definite amounts are to be
excluded from the denial, if by the terms of the gift enjoyment is deferred to a future time. Again, the crucial
thing is postponement of enjoyment, not the fact that the
"Cf.
text at note 12 infra.
1
2 Cf. note 10 supra.

FONDREN v. COMMISSIONER.
18

Opinion of the Court.

beneficiary is specified and in esse or that the amount of
the gift is definite and certain.13
The considerations, which petitioners advance to support their position, from the minority of the beneficiaries
and their consequent legal disability to manage and control their property are intermingled with others relating to
the motives of the donors in making the gifts. It is said
that their purpose was to provide for the "comfort, support, maintenance and welfare," including education, of
the grandchildren; that the latter were incapable of taking
over the management and control of the property; that
accordingly it was necessary for some arrangement to be
made for vesting this power in trustees or others capable
of exercising it; that the trustees were given no power to
withhold either income or corpus in case of need; and consequently the whole fund became available to the beneficiary for his maintenance "immediately upon the consummation of the gift," so that he was vested at once with
the right of present enjoyment as fully as any child of
tender years could be and in no way differently, taking
account of his disability, than any owner of property by
title in fee simple.
13 The absence of these factors is relevant as showing the more
clearly that postponement exists and therefore the exemption does
not apply. Their presence does not show that there is no postponement or that the exemption applies. The administrative difficulties
relating to these matters "in many instances" were reasons for denying the exemption. They do not and were not intended to encompass the full scope of the denial. As the statute extended the exemption "in the specified amount, to all gifts, whether large or small,
'made to any person,'" Helvering v. Hutchings, 312 U. S. 393, 397,
so it denied the exemption to all gifts, whether large or small, vested
or contingent, made to any person, whether specified and in esse
or ascertainable only in the future, and whether for a specific or a
presently unascertainable amount, if the gift is one of a "future interest in property," that is, one as to which enjoyment is postponed
to some future time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

So far as the argument turns on the motive of the
donors, it may be answered that the statute and the regulation make no such test. If motive has bearing, it is only
by reason of its effect upon the element of time and whatever relation may be given, by the particular terms of
the gift, to it and the disclosing of a purpose to provide for
or against immediate enjoyment. The statute in this respect purports to make no distinction between gifts to
minors and gifts to adults. If there is deferment in
either case the exemption is denied. Consequently in this
case the donors' laudable desire to make provision for their
grandchildren in case of future need cannot nullify the
deferment which the recited absence of present need,
coupled with the terms of the trust, brought about. Again,
contingency of need in the future is not identical with the
fact of need presently existing. And a gift effective
only for the former situation is not effective, for purposes
of relief from the tax, as if the latter were specified,
whether the donee is an adult or a minor.
Upon the facts, furthermore, the trusts hardly can be
taken as designed primarily for the periods covered by the
children's minority. They did not terminate with the
ending of that period. The graduated scale of payments,
beginning at age twenty-five and ending at thirty-five,
together with the prohibition of payment earlier except in
case of necessity, shows principal concern for a period of
adult life. And, from the fact that this would be the
period when the grandchildren normally would be assuming family responsibilities of their own, the inference well
might be drawn that the chief purpose was to give aid and
some security in that time. The contingent provision, in
case of earlier need, cannot be taken therefore to represent
the donors' primary concern as expressed in the instruments. Cf. Fisher v. Commissioner, 132 F. 2d 383, 386.

FONDREN v. COMMISSIONER.
18

Opinion of the Court.

But, whether so or not, in the particular circumstances
that need was but a contingency to be realized, if at all,
in the future. And, until realized, the contingency stood
squarely in the way of any child's receiving a single dollar
from the fund.
Finally it is urged that unless these gifts are to be taken
as conferring the right to immediate enjoyment, no gift
for the benefit of a child of tender years can be so regarded
since in any such case "some competent person must be
the primary judge as to the necessity and extent of reasonable requirements of the beneficiary." The argument is
appealing, in so far as it seeks to avoid imputing to Congress the intention to "penalize gifts to minors merely
because the legal disability of their years precludes them
for a time from receiving their income in hand currently."
Cf. Disston v. Commissioner, 144 F. 2d 115, 119. But we
think it is not applicable in the facts of this case, since by
the terms of the trusts and the facts recited in the instruments none of the fund, whether income or corpus, could
be applied immediately for the child's use or enjoyment.
It does not follow, as petitioners say, that if the exemption does not apply in this case it can apply in no other
made for a minor's benefit. Whenever provision is made
for immediate application of the fund for such a purpose,
whether of income or of corpus, the exemption applies.
Whether, in the case of a gift requiring such an application of the income, but providing for retention of a corpus
no more than reasonably sufficient to produce the income
required for this purpose and to insure its continued payment during minority, the donation would fall within the
exemption, as to corpus as well as income, is a question not
presented on this record and therefore not determined.
The regulation has received the construction now reaffirmed with substantial consistency. The statute, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

30

Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

the meaning thus settled, has been reenacted by Congress.' The construction should be followed until Congress sees fit to change it.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

REPUBLIC OF MEXICO

ET AL.

v. HOFFMAN.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 455.

Argued January 11, 12, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.

1. The decisions of the two courts below that the vessel in question
was not in the possession or service of the Mexican government
are supported by the evidence. P. 33.
2. A merchant vessel owned but not possessed by a friendly foreign government held not immune from a suit in rem in admiralty,
where the Department of State has refrained from certifying
that it allows the immunity or recognizes ownership of the vessel
without possession by the foreign government as a ground for
immunity. Pp. 36, 38.
3. Since the Department of State has long and consistently followed
the policy of recognizing immunity from suit of a vessel in the
possession and service of a foreign government, the courts have
allowed such immunity upon proof of such possession and use
even when not certified by the Department of State. P. 36.
4. It is the duty of the courts, in a matter so intimately associated
with our foreign policy and which may profoundly affect it, not
to enlarge an immunity to an extent which the Government, though
it has had numerous opportunities, has not seen fit to recognize.
P. 38.
143 F. 2d 854, affirmed.

323 U. S. 697, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for the libellant in a suit in rem in admiralty.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Morris Lavine for petitioners.
14 Congress withdrew the exclusion, as to gifts in trust, in the Revenue
Act of 1938, c. 289, 52 Stat. 447, § 505, amending § 504 (b) of the 1932
Act. But it was restored, though reduced to $3,000, by the Revenue
Act of 1942, e. 619, 56 Stat. 798, § 454.

