U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WILLOW RIVER POWER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 312. Argued February 8, 9, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. An owner of a dam and hydroelectric plant near the confluence of
navigable and non-navigable streams, and embracing lands riparian
to the navigable stream, is not entitled under the Fifth Amendment
to compensation from the United States for a reduction in the generating capacity of the plant, which resulted from an authorized
navigation improvement that raised the level of the water of the
navigable stream above ordinary high-water mark. United States
v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, distinguished. Pp. 504, 506.
2. The resulting damage to the riparian owner in this ease did not
constitute such a taking of property as is required by the Fifth
Amendment to be compensated. P. 510.
101 Ct. Cls. 222, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 694, to review a judgment for the

plaintiff in a suit against the United States to recover compensation for an alleged taking of property.
Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom SolicitorGeneral Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Shea and Miss Cecelia H.
Goetz were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. R. M. Rieser, with whom Mr. John Wattawa was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Willow River Power Company has been awarded
$25,000 by the Court of Claims as just compensation for
impaired efficiency of its hydroelectric plant caused by the
action of the United States in raising the water level of
the St. Croix River. Reality of damage and reasonableness of the award are not in issue. Our question is

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

whether the damage is the result of a "taking" of private
property, for which just compensation is required by the
Fifth Amendment.
Willow River in its natural state was a non-navigable
stream, which flowed to within a few rods of the St. Croix
River, turned and roughly paralleled it for something less
than a mile, and then emptied into the St. Croix. Many
years ago an earth dam was thrown across the Willow
about a half-mile above its natural mouth. A new mouth
was cut across the narrow neck which separated the two
rivers and a dam was built across the artificial channel
close to or upon the banks of the St. Croix. Here also was
built a mill, which operated under the head produced in
the pool by the two dams, which obstructed both the natural and the artificial channel of the Willow River.
These lands and appurtenant rights were acquired by
the Willow River Power Company, a public utility corporation of the State of Wisconsin, and were devoted to
hydroelectric generation for supply of the neighborhood.
The plant was the lowest of four on Willow River operated by the Company as an integrated system. The powerhouse was located on land owned by the Company above
ordinary high water of the St. Croix. Mechanical energy
for generation of electrical energy was developed by water
in falling from the artificial level of non-navigable Willow
River to the natural level of navigable St. Croix River.
The elevation of the head water when at the crest of the
gates was 689 feet above mean sea level. The operating
head varied because elevation of the tail water was governed by the fluctuating level of the St. Croix. When
that river was low, the maximum head was developed, and
was 22.5 feet; when the river was at flood stage, the operating head diminished to as little as eight feet. The ordinary high-water mark is found to have been 672 feet,
and the head available above that was seventeen feet.

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

The Government, in pursuance of a Congressional plan
to improve navigation, in August of 1938 had completed
what is known as the Red Wing Dam in the upper Mississippi, into which the St. Croix flows. This dam was
some thirty miles downstream, but it created a pool which
extended upstream on the St. Croix beyond respondent's
plant at an ordinary elevation of 675 feet. Thus the water
level maintained by the Government in the St. Croix was
approximately three feet above its ordinary high-water
level at claimant's property. By thus raising the level at
which tail waters must flow off from claimant's plant, the
Government reduced the operating head by three feet,
using ordinary high water as the standard, and diminished
the plant's capacity to produce electric energy. The
Company was obliged to supplement its production by
purchase from other sources.
Loss of power was made the only basis of the award.
The Court of Claims found as a fact that "The value of
the loss in power as a result of the raising of the level of
the St. Croix River by three feet above ordinary high
water was $25,000 at the time and place of taking," and
it rendered judgment for that amount. There is no finding that any fast lands were flooded or that other injury
was done to property or that claimant otherwise was deprived of any use of its property. It is true that the water
level was above high-water mark on the St. Croix River
banks and on claimant's structures, but damage to land
as land or to structures as such is not shown to be more
than nominal and accounts for no part of the award. The
court held that the Government "had a right to raise the
level of the river to ordinary high-water mark with impunity, but it is liable for the taking or deprivation of
such property rights as may have resulted from raising the
level beyond that point." Turning, then, to ascertain
what property right had been "taken," the Court referred
637 s2o-46-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

to United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 329, 330, which it
said was identical in facts, and held it had no option but to
follow it and that "It results that plaintiff is entitled to
recover the value of the decrease in the head of its
dam." 1
The Fifth Amendment, which requires just compensation where private property is taken for public use, undertakes to redistribute certain economic losses inflicted by
public improvements so that they will fall upon the public
rather than wholly upon those who happen to lie in the
path of the project. It does not undertake, however, to
socialize all losses, but those only which result from a
taking of property. If damages from any other cause are
to be absorbed by the public, they must be assumed by
act of Congress and may not be awarded by the courts
merely by implication from the constitutional provision.
The court below thought that decrease of head under the
circumstances was a "taking" of such a "property right,"
and that is the contention of the claimant here.
It is clear, of course, that a head of water has value and
that the Company has an economic interest in keeping
the St. Croix at the lower level. But not all economic
interests are "property rights"; only those economic advantages are "rights" which have the law back of them,
and only when they are so recognized may courts compel
others to forbear from interfering with them or to compensate for their invasion. The law long has recognized
that the right of ownership in land may carry with it a
legal right to enjoy some benefits from adjacent waters.
But that a closed catalogue of abstract and absolute
"property rights" in water hovers over a given piece of
shore land, good against all the world, is not in this day
a permissible assumption. We cannot start the process
of decision by calling such a claim as we have here a
1 101

Ct. Cls. 222, certiorari granted, 323 U. S. 694.

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

"property right"; whether it is a property right is really
the question to be answered. Such economic uses are
rights only when they are legally protected interests.
Whether they are such interests may depend on the claimant's rights in the land to which he claims the water rights
to be appurtenant or incidental; on the navigable or nonnavigable nature of the waters from which he advantages;
on the substance of the enjoyment thereof for which he
claims legal protection; on the legal relations of the adversary claimed to be under a duty to observe or compensate
his interests; and on whether the conflict is with another
private riparian interest or with a public interest in navigation. The claimant's assertion that its interest in a
power head amounts to a "property right" is made under
circumstances not present in any case before considered
by this Court.
Claimant is the owner of lands riparian to the St. Croix
River, and under the law of Wisconsin, in which the lands
lie, the shore owner also has title to the bed of the stream.
KaukaunaCo. v. Green Bay CanalCo., 142 U. S. 254, 271;
Jones v. Pettibone, 2 Wis. 308; Willow River Club v.
Wade, 100 Wis. 86, 76 N. W. 273. The case seems to have
been tried on the theory that the Company may also claim
because of interference with its rights as a riparian owner
on the Willow. But the Government has not interfered
with any natural flow of the Willow past claimant's lands.
Where it was riparian owner along Willow's natural channel claimant already had created an artificial level much
above the Government level. If claimant's land along the
Willow was at all affected it was at the point where the
land was riparian to the artificial channel, just back of the
shore line of the St. Croix, where the land had been cut
away to install the dam and power plant and to utilize
the advantages of being riparian to the St. Croix. We
think the claimant's maximum and only interest in the
level of the St. Croix arises from its riparian position

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

thereon and is not helped by the fact that its utilization
of riparian lands on the St. Croix involves conducting over
them at artificial levels waters from the Willow.
The property right asserted to be appurtenant to claimant's land is that described in United States v. Cress, 243
U. S. 316, 330, as "the right to have the water flow away
from the mill dam unobstructed, except as in the course of
nature" and held in that case to be an "inseparable part"
of the land. The argument here is put that the waters
of the St. Croix were backed up into claimant's tailrace,
causing damage. But if a dyke kept the waters of the St.
Croix out of the tailrace entirely it would not help. The
water falling from the Willow must go somewhere, and
the head may be preserved only by having the St. Croix
channel serve as a run-off for the tail waters. The runoff of claimant's water may be said to be obstructed by
the presence of an increased level of Governmentimpounded water at the end of claimant's discharge pipes.
The resulting damage may be passed on to the Government only if the riparian owner's interest in "having the
water flow away" unobstructed above the high-water line
is a legally protected one.
The basic doctrine of riparian rights in flowing streams
prevails with minor variations in thirty-one states of the
Union.' It chiefly was evolved to settle conflicts between
2 The other 17 have some form of the appropriative system. It is
based on the principle of priority or seniority, under which rights accrue to users in the order in which they first put waters to beneficial
use. The principle is not equal right of use but paramount right in
the earlier user. The use is not limited to riparian tracts but may
be diverted to sites remote from the stream, thus spreading the benefits
beyond riparian lands, a considerable advantage to some arid regions.
The beneficial use is more extensive and includes use for irrigation,
mining, manufacturing as well as domestic uses, and the water may
be permanently diverted and the stream thereby diminished to an
extent not allowable under the riparian rights theory. See Bannister,
Interstate Rights in Interstate Streams in the Arid West (1923) 36
Harv. L. Rev. 960.

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

505

Opinion of the Court.

parties, both of whom were riparian owners. Equality of
right between such claimants was the essence of the resulting water law. "The fundamental principle of this
system is that each riparian proprietor has an equal righi
to make a reasonable use of the waters of the stream,
subject to the equal right of the other riparian proprietors likewise to make a reasonable use." ' With this
basic principle as a bench mark, particular rights to use
flowing water on riparian lands for domestic purposes
and for power were defined, each right in every riparian
owner subject to the same right in others above and to
a corresponding duty to those below.
The doctrine of riparian rights attained its maximum
authority on non-navigable streams. No overriding public interest chilled the contest between owners to get the
utmost in benefits from flowing streams. Physical conditions usually favored practical utilization of theoretical
rights. In general non-navigable streams were small,
shifted their courses easily and were not stable enough
to serve as property lines as larger streams often do. They
were shallow, could be forded and were no great obstacle
to tillage or pasturage -on two sides of the stream as a
single operation. Such streams, like the lands, were
fenced in, and while the waters might show resentment
by carrying away a few spans of fence in the spring, the
riparian owner's rights in such streams were acknowledged
by the custom of the countryside as well as recognized by
the law. In such surroundings and as between such owners
equality of benefits from flowing waters was sought in
the rule that each was entitled to their natural flow, sub3 Bannister, supra, at 960. Choice of the arid sections of the country of the appropriative in preference to the' riparian system is. cited
in Cardozo, Growth of the Law, 118, 119-20, as an example of "con-.
scious departure from a known rule, and the deliberate adoption of
a new one, in obedience to the promptings of a socialneed'so obvious
and so- insistent -as to overrun the ancient channel and' cut. a: new
..
one for %itself."

.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ject only to a reasonable riparian use which must not substantially diminish their quantity or impair their quality.
It was in such a stream that this Court found Cress as a
landowner under the law of Kentucky possessed "the
right to have the water flow away from the mill dam unobstructed, except as in the course of nature." 243 U. S.
316, 330.
Cress owned riparian lands and the bed as well of a nonnavigable creek in Kentucky. He built a dam which
pooled the water and diverted it to his headrace; after it
turned the wheel of his mill, it was returned to the stream
by his tailrace. The Government built a dam in the navigable Kentucky River which backed up the water in this
non-navigable tributary to a point one foot below the
crest of the mill dam, leaving an unworkable head. The
Court concluded that Cress was entitled to compensation
as for a taking. It found that Cress had the right as a
riparian owner to the natural flow-off of the water in this
non-navigable stream. The Cress case is significant in
that it measured the rights of a riparian owner against
the Government in improving navigation by the standard
which had been evolved to measure the rights of riparian
owners against each other. The rights of the Government
at that location were held to be no greater than those of
a riparian owner, and therefore, of course, not paramount
to the rights of Cress.
We are of opinion that the Cress case does not govern
this one and that there is no warrant for applying it, as
the claimant asks, or for overruling it, as the Government intimates would be desirable. The Government
there was charged with the consequences of changing the
level of a non-navigable stream; here it is sought to be
charged with the same consequences from changing the
level in a navigable one. In the former case the navigation interest was held not to be a dominant one at the
property damaged; here dominance of the navigation interest at the St. Croix is clear. And the claimant in this

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

case cannot stand in the Cress shoes unless it can establish the same right to have the navigable St. Croix flow
tail waters away at natural levels that Cress had to have
the non-navigable stream run off his tail waters at natural
levels. This could only be done by an extension of the
doctrine of the Cress case. As we have already said, it
"must be confined to the facts there disclosed." United
States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 312 U. S. 592,
597.
On navigable streams a different right intervenes.
While riparian owners on navigable streams usually were
held to have the same rights to be free from interferences
of other riparian owners as on non-navigable streams, it
was recognized from the beginning that all riparian interests were subject to a dominant public interest in navigation. The consequences of the latter upon the former
have been the subject of frequent litigation.
Without detailing the long struggle between such conflicting interests on navigable streams, it may point out
that by 1909 the lines had become sharply drawn and
were then summarized by a leading author: "The older
authorities hold that such an owner has no private rights
in the stream or body of water which are appurtenant
to his land, and, in short, no rights beyond that of any
other member of the public, and that the only difference
is that he is more conveniently situated to enjoy the privileges which all the public have in common, and that he
has access to the waters over his own land, which the public
do not." "Access to and use of the stream by the riparian
owner is regarded as merely permissive on the part of the
public and liable to be cut off absolutely if the public
sees fit to do so." And he quoted another writer of standing:' "The owner of the bank has no jus privatum, or
special usufructuary interest, in the water. He does not,
41

Lewis on Eminent Domain (3d ed. 1909) 116, 119.

5 Wood on Nuisances (1st ed.) § 592.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

from the mere circumstance that he is the owner of the
bank, acquire any special or particular interest in the
stream, over any other member of the public, except that,
by his proximity thereto, he enjoys greater conveniences
than the public generally. To him, riparian ownership
brings no greater rights than those incident to all the
public, except that he can approach the water more readily, and over lands which the general public have no
right to use for that purpose. But this is a mere conven-

ience, arising from his ownership of the lands adjacent
to the ordinary high-water mark, and does not prevent the
State from depriving him entirely of this convenience,
by itself making erections upon the shore, or authorizing
the use of the shore by others, in such a way as to deprive
him of this convenience altogether, and the injury resulting to him therefrom, although greater than that
sustained by the rest of the public, is 'damnum absque

injuria.'" On the other hand, the author pointed out,
there were cases holding that the riparian owners on navigable streams "have valuable rights appurtenant to their
estates, of which they cannot be deprived without compensation." He considered this the better rule, and suggested that the courts indicated some tendency to

adopt it.
However, in 1913 this Court decided United States v.
Chandler-Dunbar Co., 229 U. S. 53. It involved the
claim that water power inherent in a navigable stream
due to its fall in passing riparian lands belongs to the shore
owner as an appurtenant to his lands. The Court set
aside questions as to the right of riparian owners on nonnavigable streams and all questions as to the rights of
riparian owners on either navigable or non-navigable
streams as between each other. And it laid aside as irrelevant whether the shore owner did or did not have a technical title to the bed of the river which would pass with
it "as a shadow follows a substance." It declared that "In

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

neither event can there be said to arise any ownership of
the river. Ownership of a private stream wholly upon the
lands of an individual is conceivable; but that the running water in a great navigable stream is capable of private ownership is inconceivable." 229 U. S. at 62, 69.
This Court then took a view quite in line with the trend
of former decisions there reviewed, that a strategic position for the development of power does not give rise to
right to maintain it as against interference by the United
States in aid of navigation. We have adhered to that position. United States v. Appalachian Electric Power Co.,
311 U. S. 377, 424. The Chandler-Dunbarcase held that
the shore owner had no appurtenant property right in two
natural levels of water in front of its lands or to the use
of the natural difference between as a head for power
production. In this case the claimant asserts a similar
right to one natural level in front of his lands and a right
of ownership in the difference between that and the artificial level of the impounded water of the Willow River.
It constituted a privilege or a convenience, enjoyed for
many years, permissible so long as compatible with navigation interests, but it is not an interest protected by law
when it becomes inconsistent with plans authorized by
Congress for improvement of navigation.
It is conceded that the riparian owner has no right as
against improvements of navigation to maintenance of
a level below high-water mark, but it is claimed that there
is a riparian right to use the stream for run-off of water
at this level. High-water mark bounds the bed of the
river. Lands above it are fast lands and to flood them is
a taking for which compensation must be paid. But the
award here does not purport to compensate a flooding of
fast lands or impairment of their value. Lands below that
level are subject always to a dominant servitude in the
interests of navigation and its exercise calls for no compensation. United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Co., 312 U. S. 592; Willink v. United States, 240 U. S. 572.
The damage here is that the water claimant continues to
bring onto its lands through an artificial canal from the
Willow River has to leave its lands at an elevation of 675
instead of an elevation of 672 feet. No case is cited and
we find none which holds a riparian owner on navigable
waters to have such a legal right. The Cress case which
the Court of Claims relied upon does not so hold and does
not govern here.
Rights, property or otherwise, which are absolute
against all the world are certainly rare, and water rights
are not among them. Whatever rights may be as between
equals such as riparian owners, they are not the measure
of riparian rights on a navigable stream relative to the
function of the Government in improving navigation.
Where these interests conflict they are not to be reconciled as between equals, but the private interest must
give way to a superior right, or perhaps it would be more
accurate to say that as against the Government such
private interest is not a right at all.
Operations of the Government in aid of navigation
ofttimes inflict serious damage or inconvenience or interfere with advantages formerly enjoyed by riparian owners,
but damage alone gives courts no power to require compensation where there is not an actual taking of property.
Cf. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141; Bedford v. United States, 192
U. S. 217; Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1; Hughes
v. United States, 230 U. S. 24; Cubbins v. Mississippi
River Commission, 241 U. S. 351. Such losses may be
compensated by legislative authority, not by force of the
Constitution alone.
The uncompensated damages sustained by this riparian
owner on a public waterway are not different from those
often suffered without indemnification by owners abutting on public highways by land. It has been held in

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

nearly every state in the Union that "there can be no
recovery for damages to abutting property resulting from
a mere change of grade in the street in front of it, there
being no physical injury to the property itself, and the
change being authorized by law." I This appears to be
the law of Wisconsin. Smith v. Eau Claire, 78 Wis. 457,
47 N. W. 830; Walish v. Milwaukee, 95 Wis. 16, 69 N. W.
818; McCullough v. Campbellsport, 123 Wis. 334, 101
N. W. 709; cf. Smith v. Washington, 20 How. 135; TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.635. It would be strange
if the State of Wisconsin is free to raise an adjacent land
highway without compensation but the United States
may not exercise an analogous power to raise a highway
by water without making compensation where neither
takes claimant's lands, but each cuts off access to and use
of a natural level.
We hold that claimant's interest or advantage in the
high-water level of the St. Croix River as a run-off for tail
waters to maintain its power head is not a right protected
by law and that the award below based exclusively on
the loss in value thereof must be reversed.
MR. JuSTiCe, REED concurs in the result on the ground
that the United States has not taken property of the
respondent.
MR.JUSTICE ROBERTS.

I think the judgment of the Court of Claims should be
affirmed. The findings of fact by that court are supported
by the evidence. They are to the following effect.
The St. Croix River is navigable. The Willow River
is a non-navigable stream emptying into the St. Croix
at Hudson, Wisconsin. The respondent has constructed
several dams in the Willow River for the purpose of gen( 1 Lewis on Eminent Domain (3d ed. 1909) 210.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

erating power. The one farthest down stream is "located
near the confluence of the Willow River and the St. Croix
River in the city of Hudson, Wisconsin, on land owned
by [respondent] above ordinary high water of the St.
Croix River." At the time of the erection of the respondent's dam, ordinary high water in the St. Croix at Hudson
was 672 feet above sea level. The respondent's dam
raised the water level in Willow River to a height of 694.5
feet above sea level, thus affording a power head of 22.5
feet.'
By the Government's erection of Red Wing Dam the
water level in the St. Croix at Hudson was raised to 675.3
feet above mean sea level. The backing up of the water
reduced the power head of respondent's dam by approximately three feet, and diminished its supply of power
accordingly.
In the court below, the United States denied that the
Red Wing Dam had raised the level of the St. Croix at
Hudson to the extent claimed by the respondent, and
contended that Willow River was a navigable stream and
the respondent's dam was, therefore, an obstruction in the
navigable waters of the United States for interference
with or injury to which the United States was not responsible. These contentions were overruled and are now
abandoned. There was no claim by the Government that
any portion of the respondent's construction was below
1The court's opinion refers to the circumstance that the dam in
question is not built across the natural channel of Willow River.
Neither the court below nor the Government relies on this phase of the
case, and I take it that decision does not depend upon it. The facts
are that the St. Croix runs substantially from north to south. Willow
River, which runs westward, formerly turned southward a short distance from the St. Croix and substantially paralleled the latter before
emptying into it. The respondent dammed the natural channel to form
a pool just east of the St. Croix, and then built its powerhouse, dam
and spillway at a point at the edge of the pool nearest the St. Croix.

U. S. v. WILLOW RIVER CO.
499

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

ordinary high-water mark in the St. Croix. In fact the
Government's answer admitted averments of the petition
that the dam and power plant were located near a point
where the Willow River discharges into the St. Croix
River, and upon the respondent's property described in
the petition. The answer further alleged that the "dam so
constructed by the plaintiff near the point where the
Willow River discharges into the St. Croix River . . . was
constructed upon a concrete foundation extending across
or occupying the full width of the mouth of a navigable
stream" (meaning the Willow River, which the Government then claimed was navigable). The opinion of the
court below states that respondent's tailrace emptied into
the St. Croix River below ordinary high-water level, and
this seems to be true. But the fact is irrelevant.
The respondent owned the land on either side of the
Willow River at and above the point where its dam was
constructed. Under the law of Wisconsin the respondent
owned the bed of Willow River, and both by common and
statute law of Wisconsin it had the right to erect and use
the dam.' That right was property; and such a right recognized as private property by the law of a state is one
which under the Constitution the federal government is
bound to recognize. Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312; Fox River Paper Co. v. Railroad Commission, 274 U. S. 651, 654, 655. Compare Ford
& Son v. Little Falls Fibre Co., 280 U. S. 369, 375, 377.
2 Revised Statutes Wisconsin 1858, Chap. XLI, §§ 2, 3; Chap. LVI,
§ 1; Wisconsin Stats. 1943, §§ 30.01 (2) (3)c, 31.07; Wisconsin Laws,
Private & Local, 1866, Ch. 122; 1872, Ch. 115; Mabie v. Matteson, 17
Wis. 1; A. C. Conn Co. v. Little Suamico Lumber Mfg. Co., 74 Wis.
652, 43 N. W. 660; Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay & M.
Canal Co., 75 Wis. 385, 390-391, 44 N. W. 638; Water Power Cases,
148 Wis. 124, 134 N. W: 330;'McDonaldv. Apple River Power Co:,
164 Wis. 450, 160 N. W. 156; Apfelbacher v. State, 167 Wis. 233, 167

N. W. 244.

.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

Unless United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, is to be disregarded or overruled, the respondent is entitled to recover
for the property taken by the reduction of the efficiency
of its dam due to the raising of the high-water mark. If
the respondent's power dam had been in Willow River at
a distance of one hundred yards or more above the confluence of the two streams, there can be no question that
the decision in the Cress case would require payment for
the injury done to its water power. Since under local law

the owner of the land and the dam was entitled to have the
water of the non-navigable stream flow below his dam at
the natural level of the Willow River, which is affected by
the natural level of the St. Croix, the raising of that level
by navigation works in the St. Croix invaded the respondent's rights. This is the basis of decision in the Cress case.
The fact that the respondent's dam is close to the highwater mark of the St. Croix River can not call for a
different result.
The court concludes that the Cress case is inapplicable
by ignoring the finding of the trial court that the increase
in level of the St. Croix above high-water mark has diminished the head of respondent's dam by three feet. But
to reach its conclusion the court must also disregard the
natural law of hydraulics that water seeks its own level.
At the confluence of the two rivers at normal high water
of the St. Croix, both the St. Croix and the Willow are
at the same level. Any increase in the level of the St.
Croix above high-water mark must result in raising the
natural level of the Willow to some extent. The court below has found that the increase in the level of the St.
Croix operates to diminish the head at respondent's dam
by the specified amount. The facts thus established are
in all relevant respects precisely those on the basis of
which this court sustained the recovery of damages in the
Cress case.
If the fact is that respondent discharges the water from
its power plant through a tailrace extending below high-

CONNECTICUT CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 515
499

Syllabus.

water mark of the St. Croix, that fact is irrelevant to the
problem presented. Respondent claims, and the court
below has sustained, only the right to have the flow of
the Willow maintained at its natural level. That level has
been increased by raising the level of the St. Croix above
its high-water mark. The increase in the level of the St.
Croix above high-water mark has operated to raise the
level below the respondent's darn to an extent which has
damaged respondent by diminishing the power head. To
that extent respondent has suffered damage and is entitled
to recover on principles announced in the Cress case.
United States v. Cress has stood for twenty-eight years
as a declaration of the law applicable in circumstances
precisely similar to those here disclosed. I think it is a
right decision if the United States, under the Constitution, must pay for the destruction of a property right
arising out of the lawful use of waters not regulable by the
federal government because they are not navigable.
The CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in this opinion.
CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO. v. FEDERAL
POWER COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 189. Argued January 3, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. The declaration of policy in § 201 (a) of the Federal Power Act,
that federal regulation is "to extend only to those matters which
are not subject to regulation by the States," is relevant in resolving
ambiguity in specific provisions of the Act which purport to effectuate that policy. P. 527.
2. In the provision of § 201 (b) of the Federal Power Act, that the
Commission shall have jurisdiction over all facilities for the transmission or wholesale of electric energy in interstate commerce, "but
shall not have jurisdiction, except as specifically provided in this
Part and the Part next following, over facilities used . . .in local

