OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO. v. DUEL, COMMISSIONER OF INSURANCE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 115. Argued January 12, 1945.-Decided February 12, 1945.
A statute of Wisconsin requires that the unearned premium reserve
of every insurance company doing business within the State shall
be computed by a specified percentage of premiums received and
shall be shown as a liability in the annual statement required to
be filed. As applied to the appellant-a foreign insurance company
which operated in some States on a membership fee plan (unlawful
in Wisconsin) -the statute as construed requires that in computing
the reserve there be included membership fees as well as premiums
received in all States. For failure to comply with the statute,
appellant was denied a license to do business within the State.
Held:
1. The statute does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 157.
(a) The reserve requirement was relevant to the financial
stability of insurance companies doing business within the State,
and was therefore within the power of the State for the protection
of its citizens. P. 158.
(b) The due process clause does not demand uniformity in
the requirements of the States with respect to financial statements
of companies doing a multi-state business. P. 159.
(c) The statute does not regulate out-of-state activities.
P. 159.
2. The statute does not violate the full faith and credit clause
of the Constitution. P. 159.
(a) That the State of incorporation does not treat membership
fees as premiums does not preclude Wisconsin's doing so. P. 159.
(b) The full faith and credit clause does not bar a State from
imposing stricter financial standards for corporations doing business
within its borders than are imposed by the State of incorporation.
P. 159.
(c) The appellant, challenging the power of Wisconsin to
enforce its own statutes in its own courts, did not meet the burden

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. DUEL.
154

Opinion of the Court.

of showing that the interests of the State of incorporation were
superior. P. 160.
3.As to the appellant's contention that the statute as construed
and applied violates the commerce clause of the Constitutionwhich question was not raised or passed upon below, but emerged
after this Court's decision in United States v. South-Eastern Underwriters Assn., 322 U. S. 533-it appears that the appellant is not
foreclosed under Wisconsin procedure from obtaining a determination of that question in the Wisconsin courts, either in the present
suits or in another pending proceeding, so it is not necessary to
vacate the judgment below in order that the appellant may have
an opportunity to obtain the ruling. Pp. 160, 163.
244 Wis. 429, 12 N. W. 2d 696, affirmed.

from a judgment sustaining the constitutionality of a state statute as construed and applied.
APPEAL

Messrs. R. M. Rieser and BarnabasF. Sears, with whom
Mr. Herbert H. Naujoks was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Harold H. Persons, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, with whom Mr. John E. Martin, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 344 (a) from the judgment of the Wisconsin
Supreme Court which sustained the constitutionality as
construed and applied to appellant of § 201.18 of the Wisconsin Statutes, 1943. 244 Wis. 429, 12 N. W. 2d 696.
Sec. 201.18 reads as follows:
"Reserves, basis for. (1) The unearned premium or reinsurance reserve for every insurance company when no
other statutory provision is made therefor, shall be computed by the commissioner by setting up fifty per cent of
the premiums received on all risks that have one year or
less to run, and pro rata of all premiums on risks that have

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

more than one year to run. In the case of perpetual risks
or policies, the whole amount of premium paid shall be
set up as a reserve. Every such company shall show its
reserve, computed upon this basis, as a liability in the
annual statement required by section 201.50.
"(2) Where no other provision is made therefor by law,
the reserves of any insurance company shall be calculated
upon such basis, method and plan as shall fully provide
for all liabilities, and any basis, method and plan fixed by
the order of the commissioner shall be prima facie just,
reasonable and proper."
The insurance commissioner of Wisconsin refused appellant a license in 1942 and also in 1943 for failure to
comply with that provision. Appellant accordingly
brouglit suits to enjoin the commissioner from interfering
with its business and to require him to issue it a license
to do business in the State for the years in question. The
facts may be briefly stated.
Appellant is an Illinois corporation doing business in
many States. It started doing business in Wisconsin in
1939. It writes various forms of automobile insurance
on the mutual plan. When it writes a policy for a new
customer, it charges him a membership fee in addition to a
premium. The membership fee is not returnable but
entitles the insured to insure one automobile so long as he
remains a desirable risk and so long as the company continues to write such coverage. It is said that the membership fee gives a life option to the insured to purchase
insurance at a saving of from twenty to thirty-five per
cent of the usual cost. Appellant has contended that the
membership fees are no part of the premiums, furnish no
insurance protection, and merely reimburse it for the expense of obtaining the new business. Wisconsin took a
different view. The commissioner refused renewal of
appellant's license for the years ending May 1, 1940, and

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. DUEL.
154

Opinion of the Court.

May 1, 1941. Litigation followed which resulted in the
decision of Duel v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins.
Co., 240 Wis. 161, 1 N. W. 2d 887. The Wisconsin Supreme Court held as a matter of law that the membership
fees were part of appellant's premiums and that 50 per
cent of them must be included in the reserve required by
§ 201.18. Thereupon appellant adopted and submitted to
the commissioner a new scheme for doing business in
Wisconsin. The plan was to abandon the membership
fee in Wisconsin, to require none of its Wisconsin policyholders, and to do business in Wisconsin on a level premium basis. The result was that the premiums required
to be paid in Wisconsin were 27 per cent higher than those
required in States which construed premiums as not including membership fees. The commissioner refused to
grant appellant the licenses for these later years because
its reserve required by § 201.18 did not include 50 per cent
of the membership fees obtained on business written in
other States. The present litigation ensued. The Wisconsin Supreme Court sustained the commissioner, holding
(1) that § 201.18 required a reserve'which covered the
over-all liability of the appellant and (2) that § 201.18 as
construed and applied did not contravene appellant's
constitutional rights.
Of the three constitutional questions argued here two
were raised below. They are that the statute violates (1)
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and
(2) the full faith and credit provision of Art. IV, § 1. We
think neither of the two has merit.
I. So far as due process of law is concerned, this case
is governed by the principles announced in Osborn v.
Ozlin, 310 U. S.53, and Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen,
318 U. S. 313. In Osborn v. Ozlin, supra, p. 62, we stated
that "The mere fact that state action may have repercussions beyond state lines is of no judicial significance

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

so long as the action is not within that domain which
the Constitution forbids." We sustained in that case
Virginia legislation which forbade a licensed company
to write insurance in Virginia except through a resident
agent and which provided that the resident agent could
not retain less than one-half of the customary commission even though the business originated with an outof-state broker, the resident agent rendering only a
perfunctory service. We held that by such measures
Virginia was seeking to protect the interests of her citizens, not to prohibit the making of contracts beyond
her borders. In Hoopeston Canning Co. v. Cullen, supra,
we sustained provisions of the New York Insurance Law
as applied to reciprocal insurance associations licensed
to do business in New York but with headquarters in
Illinois. The regulations which New York had imposed
included stipulated operating reserves for payment of
losses, a contingent liability of subscribers of not less
than one nor more than ten times the amount of the
annual premium expressed in the contract, and a requirement for the maintenance of an unimpaired surplus. We said, "Neither New York nor Illinois loses the
power to protect the interests of its citizens because
these associations carry on activities in both places. ...
We think the regulations themselves, since they are
aimed at the protection of the solvency of the reciprocals
or at promoting the convenience with which New York
residents may do their insurance business, are all within
the scope of state power." 318 U. S. p. 321.
Wisconsin has a legitimate concern with the financial
soundness of companies writing insurance contracts with
its citizens. The reserve which it requires under § 201.18
is designed to measure the entire future contingent liability on unexpired risks. That contingent liability is
obviously relevant in any appraisal of the financial
soundness and stability of the company. It is, to be

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. DUEL.
154

Opinion of the Court.

sure, a bookkeeping requirement. But it is more than
that: It is one of Wisconsin's measuring rods of financial
stability and strength. Any financial statement required
by Wisconsin or any other State would need reflect all
assets and liabilities of the company in the interests of
truth. Their inclusion does not mean that out-of-state
activities are being regulated, by Wisconsin. It only
means that solvency of a multi-state business can hardly
be determined on a single state basis. Accounting is no
exact science. The due process clause certainly does
not require uniformity in requirements for financial
statements of companies doing a multi-state business.
Each State must necessarily have leeway in providing
its own accounting standards for companies doing business within its borders. If a state undertook to regulate
out-of-state activities through such a requirement, different questions would be posed. But we fail to see
that Wisconsin has done that here. We cannot say that
the reserve required by Wisconsin has any purpose but
the protection of its own citizens. Its adequacy or appropriateness as a standard for qualification to do business in Wisconsin is therefore a question for Wisconsin
to determine.
II. Little need be said in reply to the contention that
the Wisconsin statute as construed and applied violates
the full faith and credit provision of the Constitution.
Appellant's argument comes down to this: Illinois, the
State of incorporation, does not treat the membership fees
as a part of the premiums. Therefore, Wisconsin may not
do so. The result would be that no State could impose
stricter financial standards for foreign corporations doing
business within its borders than were imposed by the
State of incorporation. The full faith and credit provision
requires no such result. This Court has recognized that
"In the case of statutes, the extra-state effect of which
Congress has not prescribed, where the policy of one

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

state statute comes into conflict with that of another, the
necessity of some accommodation of the conflicting interests of the two states" is imperative. Alaska Packers
Assn. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 294 U. S. 532,
547. The full faith and credit provision may not be used
to compel one State "to substitute the statutes of other
states for its own statutes dealing with a subject matter
concerning which it is competent to legislate." Pacific
Employers Ins. Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission,
306 U. S. 493, 501. He who challenges the power of one
State to enforce in its own courts its own statutes on such
grounds carries the burden of showing that "of the conflicting interests involved those of the foreign state are
superior to those of the forum." Alaska Packers Assn. v.
Industrial Accident Commission, supra, p. 548. That
burden has not been carried here. Wisconsin obviously
has a considerable interest in the financial soundness and
stability of foreign as well as domestic companies doing
business in Wisconsin. It is not apparent how Illinois
has a superior interest. As among the several States it is
Wisconsin's prerogative to select the appropriate means of
protecting its own citizens by establishing financial standards for companies which exploit the opportunities which
Wisconsin affords.
III. Appellant's remaining contention is that this
Wisconsin statute as construed and applied violates the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution. Art. I, § 8. This
question was not raised below. It emerged after the jurisdictional statement was filed here on June 1, 1944. For on
June 5, 1944, we decided United States v. South-Eastern
UnderwritersAssn., 322 U. S.533, holding that the fire insurance business was commerce within the meaning of the
Commerce Clause and the Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 209, 15
U. S. C. § 1 and § 2. Since the Wisconsin Supreme Court
did not pass on the question, we may not do so. McGold-

STATE FARM INS. 0O. v. DUEL.
154

Opinion of the Court.

rick v. Compagnie GeneraleTransatlantique,309 U. S. 430,
434. But our decision in the South-Eastern Underwriters
case was a supervening event arising in the course of this
litigation. We do not think appellant should be prejudiced
by the fact that the decision came too late for it to obtain a
ruling by the Wisconsin court. The question is what disposition we should make of this appeal so that in the
interests of justice appellant may have a hearing on the
commerce point.
A customary procedure has been for the Court to vacate
the judgment of the state court where there has been a
supervening event since its rendition which alters the
basis upon which the judgment rests, and to remand the
case so that the court from which it came might reconsider
the question in light of the changed circumstances. Gulf,
C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503; Missouri v.
Public Service Commission, 273 U. S. 126; Pagel v.
MacLean, 283 U. S. 266; Pattersonv. Alabama, 294 U. S.
600, 607; Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143, 156. See
Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 291. In those cases the
supervening event had raised questions of state law which
might have warranted a reversal of the judgment. If
they were adequate, it would be unnecessary to reach the
federal questions which were presented. Moreover, it
appeared in some of those cases that unless the judgment
of the state court were vacated, the opportunity to raise
the new questions which had emerged might be lost. See
Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Dennis, supra; Pagel v. MacLean, supra. It is suggested that that course should be
followed here so that this additional federal question may
be passed upon by the Wisconsin Supreme Court. We
would not hesitate to adopt that procedure in the interests of justice if it appeared that otherwise appellant
would be foreclosed from an adjudication of the issue.
Appellant does not show that it would be. Respondent assumes in its brief that appellant will not be foreclosed.

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

And we think that assumption is warranted for the following reasons.
We are advised that appellant has pending in the
Wisconsin courts another suit in respect to the license
year commencing May 1, 1944. Wisconsin has the familiar rule that though the validity of the law in question
might have been determined in an earlier suit, the prior
judgment is not res judicata where the second suit is on a
different cause of action in absence of evidence to show
that the question was actually presented to the court and
decided in the earlier litigation. Wentworth v. Racine
County, 99 Wis. 26, 31, 74 N. W. 551; Grunert v. Spalding,
104 Wis. 193, 213-214, 79 N. W. 606, 80 N. W. 589;
Lindemann v. Rusk, 125 Wis. 210, 237, 104 N. W. 119.
But if that principle is inapplicable here it is nevertheless
the general rule that res judicata is no defense where between the time of the first judgment and the second there
has been an intervening decision or a change in the law
creating an altered situation. 2 Freeman on Judgments
(5th ed. 1925) § 713; Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S.
5, 9; West Coast Life Ins. Co. v. Merced IrrigationDist.,
114 F. 2d 654, 662; In re Pomeroy, 51 Mont. 119, 151 P.
333; Hurd v. Albert, 214 Cal. 15, 26, 3 P. 2d 545. We
cannot find that Wisconsin has a different rule.
The Wisconsin statute, moreover, gives the court power
to allow an amendment "at any stage of any action or
special proceeding before or after judgment, in furtherance
of justice and upon such terms as may be just" -provided
that "the amended pleading states a cause of action arising out of the contract, transaction or occurrence or is
connected with the subject of the action upon which the
original pleading is based." Wis. Stat. 1943, § 269.44.
That power has been construed very liberally. Kennedy
v. Waugh, 23 Wis. 468; Post v. Campbell, 110 Wis. 378,
85 N. W. 1032; Mallon v. Tonn, 163 Wis. 366, 157 N. W.

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. DUEL.
154

Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

1098; Micek v. Wamka, 165 Wis. 97, 161 N. W. 367;
Turner Mfg. Co. v. Gmeinder, 183 Wis. 664, 198 N. W.
r311; Kaegi v. Industrial Commission, 232 Wis. 16, 285
N. W. 845. And it exists after the case has been remanded
to the trial court following an affirmance by the Wisconsin Supreme Court. See Angers v. Sabatinelli,235 Wis.
422, 293 N. W. 173; 239 Wis. 364, 1 N. W. 2d 765.
We conclude that appellant is not foreclosed under
Wisconsin procedure from obtaining a determination in
the Wisconsin courts of the commerce clause question
either in the present suits or in the other pending one.
Accordingly we do not think it is necessary to vacate the
judgment below in order that appellant may have an
opportunity to obtain the ruling.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON.

I think that the judgment below should be vacated
rather than affirmed and do not, therefore, reach the constitutional questions dealt with in the Court's opinion.
I doubt that the Wisconsin Supreme Court can open and
re-examine a judgment after it is affirmed by this Court.
As the Court recognizes, to vacate is the procedure that
has been followed when similar situations have been presented heretofore.

