GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
401

Syllabus.

dence which is coerced or known to the State to be fraudulent or perjured, or unless they otherwise deny to him
the substance of a fair trial, which is due process. See
Lisenba v. California,314 U. S. 219, 235-238; Buchalter v.
New York, 319 U. S. 427, and authorities cited.
Judged by these standards, we think that there was no
denial of due process in submitting petitioner Malinski's
confession to the jury in the manner in which they were
in fact submitted, and that there is no constitutional
ground for setting aside the jury's verdict against him.
We cannot say on this record that the jury was not rightly
permitted to determine whether petitioner's confessions
of guilt to the police were coerced, or that the verdict was
without support in the evidence, or that the instruction
that the jury could find the defendant guilty if it found
that the second confession was not the result of the alleged
coercion at the time of the first, was not properly given.
. Petitioner Rudish has raised no substantial federal
question reviewable here, and his conviction, as well as
Malinski's, should be affirmed.
GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. ET AL
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. 11, original.

Argued January 2,1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.

1. Leave is granted the State of Georgia to file in this Court against
twenty railroads a bill of complaint in which the State, suing as
parens patriae and in its proprietary capacity, and seeking injunctive
relief, charges that the defendants have conspired to fix freight rates
which discriminate against the State and that the northern roads use
coercion on the southern roads in the fixing of joint through rates.
Const., Art. III, § 2; 28 U. S. C. § 341; Clayton Act, § 16. Pp. 443,
452.
2. The bill states a justiciable controversy. Massachusettsv. Mellon,
262 U. S. 447, and Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12, distinguished.
P. 445.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

3. That the United States may bring criminal prosecutions or suits
for injunctions under the antitrust laws does not preclude the State
from maintaining the suit. P. 447.
4. In determining whether a State may invoke the original jurisdiction
of this Court in a dispute which is justiciable, the interests of the
State are not confined to those which are proprietary, but embrace
also the so-called quasi-sovereign interests. P. 447.
5. The State may maintain the suit as parens patriae acting on behalf
of its citizens, and the injury to the State in its proprietary capacity
may be treated as makeweight. P. 450.
6. A State is a "person" entitled to sue for injunctive relief under
§ 16 of the Clayton Act. P. 452.
7. The State is not entitled to recover damages, even if the conspiracy
be proved. Keogh v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 260 U. S. 156.
P. 453.
8. The injunctive relief sought by the State against the alleged ratefixing combination and conspiracy among the defendant carriers is
not a matter over which the Interstate Commerce Commission has
jurisdiction, and the relief sought is therefore not such as is available under § 16 of the Clayton Act only in a suit brought by the
United States. P. 454.
9. Rate-fixing combinations are not immune from the operation of the
antitrust laws. P. 456.
10. There is no warrant in the Interstate Commerce Act and the
Sherman Act for saying that the authority to fix joint through rates
clothes with legality a conspiracy to discriminate against a State or
a region, to use coercion in the fixing of rates, or to put in the hands
of a combination of carriers a veto power over rates proposed by a
single carrier. P. 458.
11. The provision of § 16 of the Clayton Act, authorizing relief by
injunction "when and under the same conditions and principles as
injunctive relief against threatened conduct that will cause loss or
damage is granted by courts of equity," is here sufficiently satisfied
to justify filing of the bill of complaint. P. 460.
12. That the rates which have been fixed by the alleged combination
may or may not be held unlawful by the Interstate Commerce Commission is immaterial to the issue here presented. P. 460.
13. A combination to fix reasonable and non-discriminatory rates may
nevertheless be illegal. P. 460.
14. Damage must be presumed to flow from a conspiracy to manipulate
rates within that zone of reasonableness (between maxima and

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

441

Syllabus.

minima)- within which a carrier is ordinarily free to adjust its charges
for itself. P. 461.
15. Construed as charging a conspiracy among the defendants to use
coercion in the fixing of rates and to discriminate against Georgia
in the rates which are fixed, the bill states a cause of action under
the antitrust laws. P. 462.
16. The bill is here construed with that liberality accorded the complaint of a sovereign State as presenting a substantial question with
sufficient clarity and specificity as to require a joinder of issues.
P. 463.
17. A State may not invoke the original jurisdiction of this Court in
a suit against one of its citizens. P. 463.
18. Since the two defendant corporations which claim to be citizens
of Georgia are not indispensable parties to the suit, it is unnecessary
at this stage of the proceedings to determine whether they are citizens
of Georgia within the meaning of Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution.
The citizenship of the two defendants in question may be challenged
by a motion to strike; and, if they are stricken, this Court would
not lose original jurisdiction over the controversy between Georgia
and the other defendants. P. 463.
19. It does not necessarily follow from the grant of leave to file the
bill of complaint that this Court must exercise its original jurisdiction. P. 464.
20. Clause 2 of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution, which confers
on this Court jurisdiction of those cases inter alia "in which a State
shall be Party," does not grant exclusive jurisdiction to this Court
in the classes of cases enumerated, and the exercise of the jurisdiction is not mandatory in every case. P. 464.
21. This Court can not take judicial notice of the district or districts
wherein all of the defendant railroads are "found" or "transact
business," within the meaning of the venue provision of § 12 of the
Clayton Act. P. 466.
22. No showing having been made here that all, of the defendants can
be "foind" in some convenient forum, it can not be said that
Georgia has a proper and adequate remedy apart from the original
jurisdiction of this Court. Once a State makes out a case within
the original jurisdiction of this Court, its right to come here is established; the Constitution does not require that the State go further
and show that no other forum is available to it. P. 466.
23. Apart from specific exceptions created by Congress, the jurisdiction of the federal district courts is territorial. P. 467.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

24. The provision of § 5 of the Sherman Act empowering the court
before whom proceedings under § 4 are pending to bring in parties
who reside outside the district is limited, as is § 4, to suits brought
by the United States. P. 467.
25. In the exercise of its discretion this Court does not remit Georgia
to the federal district courts for relief but grants leave to file the
amended bill of complaint. P. 468.

Motion granted.

ON MOTION by the State of Georgia for leave to file an
amended bill of complaint against twenty railroads.
Mr. Ellis Arnall, Governor of Georgia, with whom
Messrs. T. Grady Head, Attorney General, Marshall L.
Allison and Claude Shaw, Assistant Attorneys General,
and Edgar Watkins, Deputy Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for complainant.
Mr. John Dickinson, with whom Messrs. Anthony P.
Donadio, K. L. Richmond, W. T. Pierson, Thomas P.
Healy, D. Lynch Younger, E. Randolph Williams and
CarletonS. Hadley were on the brief, for the Pennsylvania
Railroad Co. et al.; Mr. George S. Leisure, with whom
Messrs. Ralstone R. Irvine, Robert W. Purcell, James V.
Hayes and Theodore S. Hope, Jr. were on the brief, for
the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. et al.; Mr. Sidney S.
Alderman, with whom Messrs. Thomas W. Davis, J. H.
McChord, Vernon W. Foster,Elmer A. Smith, J. N. Flowers, William H. Swiggart and S. R. Prince were on the
brief, for the Southern Railway Co. et al.; and Mr. W. R. C.
Cocke submitted for the Seaboard Air Line Railway Co.,
defendants.
Attorney GeneralBiddle, Solicitor GeneralFahy,Assistant Attorney General Berge, Messrs. Edward Dumbauld,
Edward P. Hodges, Sigmund Timberg and Arne C. Wiprud
filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the complainant.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

443

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The State of Georgia by this motion for leave to file a
bill of complaint I seeks to invoke the original jurisdiction
of this Court under Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution. See
Judicial Code § 233, 28 U. S. C. § 341. The defendants are
some twenty railroad companies. On November 6, 1944,
we issued a rule to show cause why Georgia should not be
permitted to file its bill of complaint. Returns to the rule
have been made and oral argument had.
Georgia sues in four capacities, only two of which we
need mention: (1) in her capacity as a quasi-sovereign
or as agent and protector of her people against a continuing wrong done to them; and (2) in her capacity as a proprietor to redress wrongs suffered by the State as the
owner of a railroad and as the owner and operator of various institutions of the State.
The essence of the complaint is a charge of a conspiracy
among the defendants in restraint of trade and commerce
among the States. It alleges that they have fixed arbitrary
and noncompetitive rates and charges for transportation
of freight by railroad to and from Georgia so as to prefer
the ports of other States over the ports of Georgia. It
charges that some sixty rate bureaus, committees, conferences, associations and other private rate-fixing
agencies have been utilized by defendants to fix these
rates; that no road can change joint through rates without the approval of these private agencies; that this private rate-fixing machinery which is not sanctioned by the
Interstate Commerce Act and which is prohibited by the
anti-trust Acts has put the effective control of rates to
' The original bill of complaint dated June 12, 1944 was followed
by an amended bill of complaint dated September 15, 1944. Our references throughout are to the amended bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

and from Georgia in the hands of the defendants. The
complaint alleges that these practices in purpose and
effect give manufacturers, sellers and other shippers in
the North an advantage over manufacturers, shippers and
others in Georgia. It alleges that the rates so fixed are
approximately 39 per cent higher than the rates and
charges for transportation of like commodities for like
distances between points in the North. It alleges that
the defendants who have lines wholly or principally in the
South are generally dominated and coerced by the defendants who have northern roads, and therefore that,
even when the southern defendants desire, they cannot
publish joint through rates between Georgia and the
North when the northern carriers refuse to join in such
rates.
It is alleged that the rates as a result of the conspiracy
are so fixed as
"(a) to deny to many of Georgia's products equal access
with those of other States to the national market;
(b) to limit in a general way the Georgia economy to
staple agricultural products, to restrict and curtail opportunity in manufacturing, shipping and commerce, and to
prevent the full and complete utilization of the natural
wealth of the State;
(c) to frustrate and counteract the measures taken by the
State to promote a well-rounded agricultural program, encourage manufacture and shipping, provide full employment, and promote the general progress and welfare of its
people; and
(d) to hold the Georgia economy in a state of arrested
development."
The complaint alleges that the defendants
are not citizens of Georgia; that Georgia is without remedy in her
own courts, as the defendants are outside her jurisdiction; that she has no administrative remedy, the Interstate Commerce Commission having no power to afford

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

relief against such a conspiracy; that the issues presented
constitute a justiciable question.
The prayer is for damages and for injunctive relief.
We will return later to the cause of action which Georgia seeks to allege. It is sufficient at this point to say that
for purposes of this motion for leave to file we construe the
allegation that defendants have conspired to fix the rates
so as to "prefer" the ports of other States over the ports
of Georgia as a charge that defendants have conspired to
fix rates so as to discriminate against Georgia. And we
construe the allegation that the southern defendants are
dominated and coerced by the northern roads and cannot
publish joint through rates when the northern roads refuse to join as a charge that the northern roads use coercion on the southern roads in the fixing of joint through
rates.
Defendants in their returns pray that the motion for
leave to file be denied on three grounds: (1) that the complaint presents no justiciable controversy; (2) that the
complaint fails to state a cause of action; and (3) that
two of the defendants are citizens of Georgia. Leave to
file should of course be denied if it is plain that no relief
may be granted in the exercise of the original jurisdiction
of this Court. See Alabama v. Arizona, 291 U. S. 286,
291-292; Arizona v. California,298 U. S. 558, 572.
JusticiableControversy. It is said that the bill does not
set forth a justiciable controversy within the rule of Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, and Floridav. Mellon,
273 U. S. 12. We take the other view, for we are of the
opinion that Georgia as parens patriae and as proprietor
of various institutions asserts a claim within judicial cognizance. The complaint of Georgia in those respects is not
of a political or governmental character. There is involved
no question of distribution of powers between the State
and the national government as in Massachusetts v. Mellon and in Floridav. Mellon, supra. And, as we shall de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

velop more fully when we turn to a consideration of the
assertion that no cause of action has been stated, we are
not asked to resolve a dispute which has been withdrawn
from the judiciary or which by the charter of our government has been reposed in departments other than the
judiciary. Cf. Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433, 456, 460.
The complaint alleges a conspiracy to restrain trade and
commerce through the fixing of rates. The history of
restraints of trade makes it plain that these problems
present judicial questions with which courts have long
dealt.2
It is of course true that Georgia does not have a right to
invoke the original jurisdiction of the Court merely because there may be involved a judicial question. It is
not enough that a State is plaintiff. The original jurisdiction is confined to civil suits where damage has been
inflicted or is threatened, not to the enforcement of penal
statutes of a State. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127
U. S. 265, 297-300. And though the suit is civil, leave to
file will be denied where it appears that the suit brought in
the name of the State is in reality for the benefit of particular individuals. Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co.,
220 U. S. 277; Oklahoma v. Cook, 304 U. S. 387; Jones v.
Bowles, 322 U. S. 707. Moreover, Massachusettsv. Mellon
and Floridav. Mellon, supra,make plain that the United
States, not the State, represents the citizens, as parens
patriaein their relations to the federal government.
The present controversy, however, does not fall within
any of those categories. This is a civil, not a criminal, proceeding. Nor is this a situation where the United States
rather than Georgia stands as parens patriae to the citizens of Georgia. This is not a suit like those in Massachusetts v. Mellon, and Florida v. Mellon, supra, where
2

See McLaughlin, Cases on the Federal Anti-Trust Laws (1933),
pp. 7-42; Thornton, Combinations in Restraint of Trade (1928), chs.
II, III.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

a State sought to protect her citizens from the operation
of federal statutes. Here Georgia asserts rights based on
the anti-trust laws. The fact that the United States may
bring criminal prosecutions or suits for injunctions under
those laws does not mean that Georgia may not maintain
the present suit. As we have seen, Georgia sues as a proprietor to, redress wrongs suffered by it as the owner of
a railroad and as the owner and operator of various public
institutions. Georgia, suing for her own injuries, is a
"person" within the meaning of § 16 of the Clayton Act;
she is authorized to maintain suits to restrain violations
of the anti-trust laws or to recover damages by reason
thereof. Georgiav. Evans, 316 U. S. 159. But Georgia is
not confined to suits designed to protect only her proprietary interests. The rights which Georgia asserts, parens
patriae, are those arising from an alleged conspiracy of
private persons whose price-fixing scheme, it is said, has
injured the economy of Georgia. Those rights are of
course based on federal laws. The enforcement of the
criminal sanctions of these acts has been entrusted exclusively to the federal government. See Georgia v.
Evans, supra, p. 162. But when it came to other sanctions Congress followed a different course and authorized
civil suits not only by the United States but by other
persons as well. And we find no indication that, when
Congress fashioned those civil remedies, it restricted the
States to suits to protect their proprietary interests. Suits
by a State, parens patriae, have long been recognized.
There is no apparent reason why those suits should be
excluded from the purview of the anti-trust acts.
In determining whether a State may invoke our original
jurisdiction in a dispute which is justiciable (Oklahoma v.
Cook, supra, p. 393) the interests of the State are not
confined to those which are proprietary; they embrace the
so-called "quasi-sovereign" interests which in the words
of Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237,

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

are "independent of and behind the titles of its citizens, in
all the earth and air within its domain." In that case this
Court enjoined manufacturing companies from discharging noxious gas from their works in Tennessee over Georgia's territory. It was pointed out that "It is a fair and
reasonable demand on the part of a sovereign that the
air over its territory should not be polluted on a great
scale by sulphurous acid gas, that the forests on its mountains, be they better or worse, and whatever domestic destruction they have suffered, should not be further
destroyed or threatened by the act of persons beyond its
control, that the crops and orchards on its hills should not
be endangered from the same source." 206 U. S. p. 238.
That case followed Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208,
where Missouri was granted leave to file a bill seeking to
enjoin the discharge of sewage into the Mississippi.3 The
Court observed that "if the health and comfort of the inhabitants of a State are threatened, the State is the proper
party to represent and defend them." 180 U. S. p. 241.
And see New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 301-302.
In Kansas v. Colorado,206 U. S. 46, Kansas was allowed to
sue to restrain the diversion of water from the Arkansas
River, an interstate stream. The Court in upholding the
right of Kansas to maintain the suit stated: "It is not acting directly and solely for the benefit of any individual
citizen to protect his riparian rights. Beyond its property
rights it has an interest as a State in this large tract of land
bordering on the Arkansas River. Its prosperity affects
the general welfare of the State. The controversy rises,
therefore, above a mere question of local private right and
involves a matter of state interest, and must be considered
from that standpoint." 206 U. S. p. 99. And see Colorado
v. Kansas, 320 U. S. 383; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263
"And see Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496; Wisconsin v. Illinois,
278 U. S. 367.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 365. In Pennsylvaniav. West Virginia, 262 U. S.
553, Pennsylvania and Ohio were allowed to maintain suits
which sought to enjoin West Virginia from interfering
with the flow of natural gas from West Virginia to the
other states. The Court said:
"The attitude of the complainant States is not that of
mere volunteers attempting to vindicate the freedom of
interstate commerce or to redress purely private grievances. Each sues to protect a two-fold interest-one as
the proprietor of various public institutions and schools
whose supply of gas will be largely curtailed or cut off by
the threatened interference with the interstate current,
and the other as the representative of the consuming public whose supply will be similarly affected. Both interests are substantial and both are threatened with serious
injury.
"Each State uses large amounts of the gas in her several
institutions and schools,-the greater part in the discharge
of duties which are relatively imperative. A break or
cessation in the supply will embarrass her greatly in the
discharge of those duties and expose thousands of dependents and school children to serious discomfort, if not
more. To substitute another form of fuel will involve very
large public expenditures.
"The private consumers in each State not only include
most of the inhabitants of many urban communities but
constitute a substantial portion of the State's population. Their health, comfort and welfare are seriously
jeopardized by the threatened withdrawal of the gas from
the interstate stream. This is a matter of grave public
concern in which the State, as the representative of the
public, has an interest apart from that of the individuals
affected. It is not merely a remote or ethical interest but
one which is immediate and recognized by law." 262 U. S.
pp.591-592.

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

It seems to us clear that under the authority of these
cases Georgia may maintain this suit as parens patriae
acting on behalf of her citizens though here, as in Georgia
v. Tennessee Copper Co., supra, p. 237, we treat the injury to the State as proprietor merely as a "makeweight."
The original jurisdiction of this Court is one of the mighty
instruments which the framers of the Constitution provided so that adequate machinery might be available for
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States and
between a State and citizens of another State. See Missouri v. Illinois, supra, pp. 219-224; Virginia v. West
Virginia, 246 U. S. 565, 599. Trade barriers, recriminations, intense commercial rivalries had plagued the
colonies.' The traditional methods available to a sovereign for the settlement of such disputes were diplomacy
and war. Suit in this Court was provided as an alternative. Missouri v. Illinois, supra, p. 241; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., supra,p. 237.
If the allegations of the bill are taken as true, the economy of Georgia and the welfare of her citizens have
seriously suffered as the result of this alleged conspiracy.
Discriminatory rates are but one form of trade barriers.
They may cause a blight no less serious than the spread
of noxious gas over the land or the deposit of sewage in
the streams. They may affect the prosperity and welfare
of a State as profoundly as any diversion of waters from
the rivers. They may stifle, impede, or cripple old industries and prevent the establishment of new ones. They
may arrest the development of a State or put it at a de-

cided disadvantage in competitive markets.

Such a

charge at least equals in gravity the one which Pennsylvania and Ohio had with West Virginia over the curtailment of the flow of natural gas from the West Virginia
4 See 1 Beveridge, The Life of John Marshall (1916), pp. 310-311;
Bancroft, History of the Formation of the Constitution (1885), pp.
27, 130, 183, 187, 454.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

fields. There are substitute fuels to which the economy
of a State might be adjusted. But discriminatory rates
fastened on a region have a more permanent and insidious quality. Georgia as a representative of the public is complaining of a wrong which, if proven, limits the
opportunities of her people, shackles her industries, retards her development, and relegates her to an inferior
economic position among her sister States. These are
matters of grave public concern in which Georgia has an
interest apart from that of particular individuals who
may be affected. Georgia's interest is not remote; it is
immediate. If we denied Georgia as parens patriae the
right to invoke the original jurisdiction of the Court in
a matter of that gravity, we would whittle the concept
of justiciability down to the stature of minor or conventional controversies. There is no warrant for such a
restriction.
Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., supra, is not
opposed to this view. In that case, the defendant railroad
company had obtained a grant from Congress to locate
and maintain a railway line through the Indian Territory
out of which the State of Oklahoma was later formed. The
federal act provided certain maximum transportation
rates which the company might charge. Oklahoma sued
to cancel the grant, to have the property granted decreed
to be in the State of Oklahoma as cestui que trust, to
enjoin the defendant from operating a railroad in the
State, and to enjoin pendente lite the exaction of greater
rates than the maximum rates specified. The Court construed the Act of Congress as subjecting the rates to federal
control until the territory became a part of a State, at
which time the rates became subject to state control.
The Court held that our original jurisdiction could not
be invoked by a State merely because its citizens were
injured. We adhere to that decision. It does not control
the present one. This is no attempt to utilize our orig-

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

inal .jurisdiction in substitution for the established
methods of enforcing local law. This is not a suit in
which a State is a mere nominal plaintiff, individual
shippers being the real complainants. This is a suit in
which Georgia;asserts claims arising out of federal laws
and the gravamen of which runs far beyond the claim of
damage to individual shippers.
Since the claim which Georgia asserts as parens patriae
as well as proprietor meets the standards of justiciability
and since Georgia is a "person" entitled to enforce the
civil sanctions of the anti-trust laws, the reasons which
have been advanced for denying Georgia the opportunity
to present her cause of action to this Court fail.
Cause of Action. It is argued that the complaint fails
to state a cause of action. (1) It is pointed out that under
the principle of the Abilene case no action for damages on
the basis of unjust, unreasonable, or discriminatory railroad rates may be maintained without prior resort to the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Texas & Pacific R.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; GreatNorthernR. Co. v. MerchantsElevator Co., 259 U. S. 285. (2) It
is said that an injunction may not be granted to restrain
rates alleged to be unreasonable or discriminatory where
there has been no prior determination of the matter by
the Commission and that the only way a State or any other
person may obtain a judicial determination of the legality
of a rate is by review of the Commission's order. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481;
North Dakota v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 257 U. S. 485;
Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 258 U. S. 158.
(3) It is said that damages under the anti-trust laws may
not be recovered against railroad carriers though the rates
approved by the Commission were fixed pursuant to a
conspiracy. Keogh v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 260 U. S.
156. (4) It is said that persons other than the United
States are barred from enjoining violations of the anti-

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

trust laws by virtue of § 16 of the Clayton Act. 38 Stat.
737, 15 U. S. C. § 26. See Central Transfer Co. v. Terminal R. Assn., 288 U. S. 469, 473-475; Terminal Warehouse
Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 297 U. S. 500, 513. (5) It is
argued that Georgia cannot maintain an action on common law principles based upon a conspiracy among carriers
to fix ,rates.
We think it is clear from the Keogh case alone that
Georgia may not recover damages even if the conspiracy
alleged were shown to exist. That was a suit for damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 210. The
Court recognized that although the rates fixed had been
found reasonable and non-discriminatory by the Commission, the United States was not barred from enforcing the
remedies of the Sherman Act. 260 U. S. pp. 161-162. It
held, however, that for purposes of a suit for damages a
rate was not necessarily illegal because it was the result
of a conspiracy in restraint of trade. The legal rights of
a shipper against a carrier in respect to a rate are to be
measured by the published tariff. That rate until suspended or set aside was for all purposes the legal rate
as between shipper and carrier and may not be varied or
enlarged either by the contract or tort of the carrier. And
it added: "This stringent rule prevails, because otherwise the paramount purpose of Congress-prevention of
unjust discrimination-might be defeated. If a shipper
could recover under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act for damages
resulting from the exaction of a rate higher than that
which would otherwise have prevailed, the amount recovered might, like a rebate, operate to give him a preference
over his trade competitors." 260 U. S. p. 163. The reasoning and precedent of that case apply with full force here.
But it does not dispose of the main prayer of the bill,
stressed at the argument, which asks for relief by way of
injunction.
637582--46-

33

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

It is clear that a suit could not be maintained here to
review, annul, or set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Congress has prescribed the method
for obtaining that relief. It is exclusive of all other
remedies, including a suit by a State in this Court. North
Dakota v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., supra; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission, supra. The same result
obtains where the basis for attacking an order of the Commission is a violation of the anti-trust laws, save in the
case where the United States is the complainant. For § 16
of the Clayton Act which gives relief by way of injunction
against threatened loss or damage through violation of
the anti-trust laws provides that no one except the United
States shall be entitled to bring such suits against common
carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act "in respect of any matter subject to the regulation, supervision,
or other jurisdiction" of the Commission. Central Transfer Co. v. Terminal R. Assn., supra, indicates that if
Georgia in the present proceeding sought to set aside the
rates of the defendants, leave to file would have to be
denied. In that case the Commission had approved certain rate schedules which entailed abandoning certain
"off-track" stations and the employment by the carriers of
a single transfer company to do interstation hauling. The
carriers proceeded to make an agreement to carry out the
program which had been submitted to the Commission and
which was later approved by it. Suit was brought by a
private company to enjoin performance of the contract
on the ground that it created a monopoly in violation of
the anti-trust laws. The Court held that the suit was
barred by § 16 of the Clayton Act. The Court pointed
out that the purpose of § 16 was "to preclude any interference by injunction with any business or transactions
of interstate carriers of sufficient public significance and
importance to be within the jurisdiction of the Commission, except when the suit is brought by the Government

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

455

Opinion of the Court.

itself." 288 U. S. p. 475. It added (p. 476): "True, a
contract may precede and have existence apart from the
several acts required to perform it, and conceivably all of
those acts might be done if no contract or agreement to
perform them had ever existed. But when they are done
in performance of an agreement, there is no way by which
the agreement itself can be assailed by injunction except
by restraining acts done in performance of it. That, in
this case, the statute forbids, not because the contract is
within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, but because the acts done in performance of it,
which must necessarily be enjoined if any relief is given,
are matters subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission."
The policy behind these restrictions placed on suitors by
the Congress was aptly stated in Terminal Warehouse
Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., supra, p. 513, as follows: "If
a sufferer from the discriminatory acts of carriers by rail
or by water may sue for an injunction under the Clayton
Act without resort in the first instance to the regulatory
commission, the unity of the system of regulation breaks
down beyond repair." We adhere to these decisions. But
we do not believe they or the principles for which they
stand are a barrier to the maintenance of this suit by
Georgia.
The relief which Georgia seeks is not a matter subject
to the jurisdiction of the Commission. Georgia in this
proceeding is not seeking an injunction against the continuance of any tariff; nor does she seek to have any tariff
provision cancelled. She merely asks that the alleged
rate-fixing combination and conspiracy among the defendant-carriers be enjoined. As we shall see, that is a
matter over which the Commission has no jurisdiction.
And an injunction designed to put an end to the conspiracy need not enjoin operation under established rates
as would have been the case had an injunction issued in
Central Transfer Co. v. Terminal R. Assn., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

These carriers are subject to the anti-trust laws.
United States v. Southern Pacific Co., 259 U. S. 214. Conspiracies among carriers to fix rates were included in the
broad sweep of the Sherman Act. United States v. TransMissouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; United States v.
Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505. Congress by § 11 of the
Clayton Act entrusted the Commission with authority
to enforce compliance with certain of its provisions "where
applicable to common carriers" under the Commission's
jurisdiction.' It has the power to lift the ban of the antitrust laws in favor of carriers who merge or consolidate
(New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287
U. S. 12, 25-26) and the duty to give weight to the antitrust policy of the nation before approving mergers and
consolidations. McLean Trucking Co. v. United States,
321 U. S. 67. But Congress has not given the Commission
comparable authority to remove rate-fixing combinations
from the prohibitions contained in the anti-trust laws.
It has not placed these combinations under the control
and supervision of the Commission. Nor has it empowered the Commission to proceed against such combinations and through cease and desist orders or otherwise
to put an end to their activities. Regulated industries
are not per se exempt from the Sherman Act. United
States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188, 198 et seq. It is true
that the Commission's regulation of carriers has greatly
expanded since the Sherman Act. See Arizona Grocery
Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 284 U. S. 370, 385-386.
But it is elementary that repeals by implication are not
5 These provisions are those relating to discriminations in price,
services, or facilities (§ 2); certain sales of goods, wares, merchandise
and the like (§ 3); acquisition by one corporation of the stock of
another (§ 7) ; interlocking directorates and officers (§ 8). See 15
U. S. C. §§ 13, 14, 18, and 19. The enforcement machinery is composed of cease and desist orders enforceable in the courts. 15 U. S. C.

§ 21.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

457

Opinion of the Court.

favored. Only a clear repugnancy between the old law
and the new results in the former giving way and then
only pro tanto to the extent of the repugnancy. United
States v. Borden, supra, pp. 198, 199. None of the powers
acquired by the Commission since the enactment of the
Sherman Act relates to the regulation of rate-fixing combinations. Twice Congress has been tendered proposals
But it has not
to legalize rate-fixing combinations.'
adopted them. In view of this history we can only conclude that they have no immunity from the anti-trust
laws.
It is pointed out, however, that under § 1 (4) of the
Interstate Commerce Act (54 Stat. 900, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (4))
it is "the duty of every common carrier subject to this
chapter to provide and furnish transportation upon reasonable request therefor, and to establish reasonable
through routes with other such carriers, and just and
reasonable rates, fares, charges, and classifications applicable thereto." And it is noted that agreement among
carriers is provided in the establishment of joint rates.
§ 6. That is true. But it would be a perversion of those
sections to hold that they legalize a rate-fixing combination of the character alleged to exist here. The collaboration contemplated in the fixing of through and joint rates
is of a restrictive nature. We do not stop at this stage of
the proceedings to delineate the legitimate area in which
that collaboration may operate. In the Keogh case (260
U. S. 156) the suit was one for damages under the Sherman Act. The charge was that the defendant carriers
See (1) 51 Cong. Record, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 9582, 9583;
(2) S. 942, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. R. 2720, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.
These latter proposals were designed (1) to make lawful the fixing
of rates by carriers through rate bureaus, conferences, or associations;
and (2) to put those group activities under the control of the Commission. The history and activities of rate bureaus are extensively
reviewed in Hearings, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce on
S. 942, Regulation of Rate Bureaus, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

had formed a rate bureau or committee to secure agreement in respect to freight rates among the constituent
railroad companies which would otherwise be competing
carriers. As we have seen, the Court held that damages
could not be recovered. But Mr. Justice Brandeis speaking for a unanimous Court stated that a conspiracy to fix
rates might be illegal though the rates fixed were reasonable and non-discriminatory. He said (260 U. S. pp.
161-162): "All the rates fixed were reasonable and nondiscriminatory. That was settled by the proceedings before the Commission. . . . But under the Anti-Trust
Act, a combination of carriers to fix reasonable and nondiscriminatory rates may be illegal; and if so, the Government may have redress by criminal proceedings under § 3,
by injunction under § 4, and by forfeiture under § 6. That
was settled by United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight
Association, 166 U. S. 290, and United States v. Joint
Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. The fact that these
rates had been approved by the Commission would not, it
seems, bar proceedings by the Government." The TransMissouriFreightAssn. case and the Joint Traffic Assn. case
have been followed in other fields. United States v.
Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, and the cases
which preceded it indicate the extent of the ban on pricefixing under the Sherman Act. But we need not at this
juncture determine the full extent to which that principle
is applicable in the fixing of joint through rates. It is
sufficient here to note that we find no warrant in the Interstate Commerce Act and the Sherman Act for saying that
the authority to fix joint through rates clothes with
legality a conspiracy to discriminate against a State or
a region, to use coercion in the fixing of rates, or to put
in the hands of a combination of carriers a veto power over
rates proposed by a single carrier. The type of regulation which Congress chose did not eliminate the emphasis
on competition and individual freedom of action in rate-

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

making. 1 Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission (1931), p. 81. The Act was designed to preserve
private initiative in rate-making as indicated by the duty
of each common carrier to initiate its own rates. Arizona
Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., supra. If a
combination of the character described in this bill of complaint is immune from suit, that freedom of action disappears. The coercive and collusive influences of group
action take its place. A monopoly power is created under
the aegis of private parties without Congressional sanction
and without governmental supervision or control.
These considerations emphasize the irrelevancy to the
present problem of the fact that the Commission has
authority to remove discriminatory rates of the character
alleged to exist here. Under § 3 (1) of the Act rates are
declared unlawful which give "any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage" to any port, region, district, territory and the like. And the Commission has taken some
action in that regard. See Alabama v. New York C. R.
Co., 235 I. C. C. 255; 237 I. C. C. 515; Live Stock to and
from the South, 253 I. C. C. 241. The present bill does not
seek to have the Court act in the place of the Commission. It seeks to remove from the field of rate-making the
influences of a combination which exceed the limits of the
collaboration authorized for the fixing of joint through
7We

have considered the argument that Certificate No. 44, issued

March 20, 1943 under § 12 of the Act of June 11, 1942 (56 Stat. 357)
by the Chairman of the War Production Board (8 Fed. Reg. 3804)

protects this alleged combination from the charges contained in the
bill. That certificate approves joint action by common carriers
through rate bureaus and the like in the initiation and establishment
of rates. We do not stop to analyze it beyond observing that in no
respect would it be a bar to the present action. It does not purport
to be retroactive. It does not sanction the use of coercion. It does
not authorize any combination to discriminate against a region in the
establishment of rates. Moreover, legal means may be employed for
an illegal end.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U.S.

rates. It seeks to put an end to discriminatory and coercive practices. The aim is to make it possible for individual carriers to perform their duty under the Act, so
that whatever tariffs may be continued in effect or superseded by new ones may be tariffs which are free from the
restrictive, discriminatory, and coercive influences of the
combination. That is not to undercut or impair the primary jurisdiction of the Commission over rates. It is to
free the rate-making function of the influences of a conspiracy over which the Commission has no authority but
which if proven to exist can only hinder the Commission
in the tasks with which it is confronted.
What we have said disposes for the most part of the
argument that recognized principles of equity prevent
us from granting the relief which is asked. Sec. 16 of
the Clayton Act provides for relief by injunction "when
and under the same conditions and principles as injunctive relief against threatened conduct that will cause loss
or damage is granted by courts of equity." Those requirements are sufficiently satisfied to justify a filing of this
bill. It must be remembered that this is a suit to dissolve
an illegal combination or to confine it to the legitimate
area of collaboration. That relief cannot be obtained
from the Commission for it has no supervisory authority
over the combination. It is true that the injury to Georgia is not in the existence of the combination per se but in
the rates which are fixed by the combination. The fact
that the rates which have been fixed may or may not be
held unlawful by the Commission is immaterial to the
issue before us. The Keogh case indicates that even a
combination to fix reasonable and non-discriminatory
rates may be illegal. 260 U. S. p. 161. The reason is that
the Interstate Commerce Act does not provide remedies
for the correction of all the abuses of rate-making which
might constitute violations of the anti-trust laws. Thus
a "zone of reasonableness exists between maxima and

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

461

Opinion of the Court.

minima within which a carrier is ordinarily free to adjust
its charges for itself." United States v. Chicago, M.,St.
P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S.499, 506. Within that zone the
Commission lacks power to grant relief even though the
rates are raised to the maxima by a conspiracy among
carriers who employ unlawful tactics. If the rate-making
function is freed from the unlawful restraints of the alleged conspiracy, the rates of the future will then be fixed
in the manner envisioned by Congress when it enacted this
legislation. Damage must be presumed to flow from a
conspiracy to manipulate rates within that zone.
Moreover, the relief sought from this Court is not an
uprooting of established rates. We are not asked for a
decree which would be an idle gesture. We are not asked
to enjoin what the Commission might later approve or
condone. We are not asked to trench on the domain of
the Commission; nor need any decree which may be ultimately entered in this cause have that effect. Georgia
alleges, "No administrative proceeding directed against
a particular schedule of rates would afford relief to the
State of Georgia so long as the defendants remained free to
promulgate rates by collusive agreement. Until the conspiracy is ended, the corrosion of new schedules, established by the collusive power of the defendant carriers
acting in concert, would frustrate any action sought to be
taken by administrative process to redress the grievances
from which the State of Georgia suffers." Rate-making is
a continuous process. Georgia is seeking a decree which
will prevent in the future the kind of harmful conduct
which has occurred in the past. Take the case of coercion.
If it is shown that the alleged combination exists and uses
coercion in the fixing of joint through rates, only an injunction aimed at future conduct of that character can
give adequate relief. Indeed, so long as the collaboration
which exists exceeds lawful limits and continues in operation, the only effective remedy lies in dissolving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

combination or in confining it within legitimate boundaries. Any decree which is entered would look to the
future and would free tomorrow's rate-making from the
coercive and collusive influences alleged to exist. It cannot of course be determined in advance what rates may
be lawfully established. But coercion can be enjoined.
And so can a combination which has as its purpose an invidious discrimination against a region or locality. Dissolution of illegal combinations or a restriction of their
conduct to lawful channels is a conventional form of relief
accorded in anti-trust suits. No more is envisaged here.
If the alleged combination is shown to exist, the decree
which can be entered will be no idle or futile gesture. It
will restore that degree of competition envisaged by Congress when it enacted the Interstate Commerce Act. It
will eliminate from rate-making the collusive practices
which the anti-trust laws condemn and which are not
sanctioned by the Interstate Commerce Act. It will
supply an effective remedy without which there can be
only an endless effort to rectify the continuous injury
inflicted by the unlawful combination. The threatened
injury is clear. The damage alleged is sufficient to satisfy
the preliminary requirements of this motion to file. There
is no administrative control over the combination. And
no adequate or effective remedy other than this suit is
suggested which Georgia can employ to eliminate from
rate-making the influences of the unlawful conspiracy
alleged to exist here.
As we have said, we construe the bill to charge a conspiracy among defendants to use coercion in the fixing of
rates and to discriminate against Georgia in the rates
which are fixed. We hold that under that construction of
the bill a cause of action under the anti-trust laws is
alleged." We intimate no opinion whether the bill might
8

We therefore do not reach the question whether an action based

on common law principles could be maintained.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

463

Opinion of the Court.

be construed to charge more than that or whether a ratefixing combination would be legal under the Interstate
Commerce Act and the Sherman Act but for the features
of discrimination and coercion charged here. We are dealing with the case only in a preliminary manner. Cf. Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 517, 518. The complaint
may have to be amplified and clarified as respects the
coercion and discrimination charged, the damage suffered,
or otherwise. We do not test it against the various types
of motions and pleadings which may be filed. We construe it with that liberality accorded the complaint of
a sovereign State as presenting a substantial question with
sufficient clarity and specificity as to require a joinder of
issues.
Alleged Misjoinder of Parties Defendant. Two of the
defendant-corporations claim to be citizens of Georgia.
Georgia asserts they are not. That issue is an involved
one. Georgia may not of course invoke the original jurisdiction of the Court in a suit against one of her citizens.
If either of the defendants who assert this defense is a
citizen of Georgia and is a necessary party, leave to file
would have to be denied. Pennsylvania v. Quicksilver
Mining Co., 10 Wall. 553; Californiav. Southern Pacific
Co., 157 U. S. 229; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co.,
184 U. S. 199; Louisiana v. Cummins, 314 U. S. 577. We
do not, however, have to decide at this stage of the proceedings whether the corporations in question are citizens
of Georgia within the meaning of Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution. They are not indispensable parties. In a suit
to enjoin a conspiracy not all the conspirators are necessary parties defendant.' It is averred and not challenged
' See Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank Co., 215 U. S. 33, 49;
United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451, 456;
Hopkins v. Oxley Stave Co., 83 F. 912, 915-916; Rocky Mountain
Bell Tel. Co. v. Montana Federation oj Labor, 156 F_ 809, 811.-812.
Cf. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 247.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

that the other defendants are citizens of other States.
The citizenship of the two defendants in question may be
challenged by a motion to strike. Louisiana v. Cummins,
314 U. S. 580. But if they are stricken, the Court would
not lose original jurisdiction over the controversy between
Georgia and the other defendants.
Exercise of OriginalJurisdiction. It does not necessarily follow that this Court must exercise its original jurisdiction. It has at times been held that this Court is not
the appropriate tribunal in which to maintain suits
brought by a State.
By Clause 1 of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution, the
judicial power of the United States extends "to all Cases,
in Law and Equity, arising under . . . the Laws of the
United States" and "to Controversies . . . between a
State and Citizens of another State." "o Clause 2 of § 2 of
Article III confers on this Court jurisdiction of those cases
"in which a State shall be Party." But Clause 2 of § 2
merely distributes the jurisdiction conferred by Clause 1
of § 2. Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 16; Massachusetts
v. Missouri, 308 U. S. 1, 19. Clause 2 does not grant
exclusive jurisdiction to this Court in the cases enumerated by it. Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 469; Plaquemines Fruit Co. v. Henderson, 170 U. S. 511. And it has
been held that the exercise of that jurisdiction is not mandatory in every case. North Dakota v. Chicago & N. W.
R. Co., supra; Georgiav. Chattanooga,264 U. S. 472, 483;
Oklahoma v. Cook, supra, p. 396; Massachusetts v. Missouri,supra. The Court in its discretion has withheld the
exercise of its jurisdiction where there has been no want
of another suitable forum to which the cause may be remitted in the interests of convenience, efficiency and jus10

By reason of the Eleventh Amendment the judicial power of
the United States does not extend to suits brought against a state by
a citizen of another state.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

Opinion of the Court.

tice.

Georgia v. Chattanooga, supra; Massachusetts v.
Missouri, supra.
There is some suggestion that the issues tendered by
the bill of complaint present questions which a district
court is quite competent to decide. It is pointed out that
the remedy is one normally pursued in the district courts
whose facilities and prescribed judicial duties are better
adapted to the extended trial of issues of fact than are
those of this Court. And it is said that no reason appears
why the present suit may not conveniently proceed in the
district court of the proper venue or why the convenience
of the parties and witnesses, as well as of the courts, would
be better served by a trial before a master appointed by
this Court than by a trial in a district court with the
customary appellate review.1 The suggestion is that we
deny the motion for leave to file, without prejudice to the
maintenance of the suit in an appropriate district court.
See Massachusettsv. Missouri, supra, pp. 17-18.
There is, however, a reason why we should not follow
that procedure here though in other respects we assume it
would be wholly appropriate. Sec. 16 of the Clayton Act
(15 U. S. C. § 26), with the exceptions already noted,
provides that "any person . . .shall be entitled to sue
for and have injunctive relief, in any court of the United
States having jurisdiction over the parties, against threatened loss or damage by a violation of the antitrust laws."
Sec. 12 of the Clayton Act (15 U. S. C. § 22) provides that
"Any suit, action, or proceeding under the antitrust laws
against a corporation may be brought not only in the
judicial district whereof it is an inhabitant, but also in
any district wherein it may be found or transacts business; and all process in such cases may be served in the
"In a proper case appellate review may be had directly in this
Court by certiorari before judgment in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Judicial Code § 240 (a), 28 U. S. C. § 347 (a).

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

district of which it is an inhabitant, or wherever it may
be found."
From these provisions it is apparent that Georgia might
sue the defendants only in the judicial district where they
are inhabitants or where they may be found or transact
business. The bill of complaint, however, alleges and
(with the exception of the two defendants already mentioned) it is not denied that "the parties defendant are not
citizens of Georgia, or within the jurisdiction of its courts."
If that allegation is taken as true, it is apparent that
Georgia could not find all of the defendants in one of the
judicial districts of Georgia so as to maintain a suit of this
character against all of them in a district court in Georgia.
Certainly we have no basis for assuming that all of the socalled northern roads, incorporated in such States as Pennsylvania, Maryland, Indiana, Ohio, New York and Illinois,
are doing business in Georgia. It is said that most of
the defendants can be found in Georgia, in the District
of Columbia, or in other districts. But no such facts
appear in the record-before us. And we cannot take judicial notice of the district or districts wherein all of the
defendants are "found" or "transact business." We would
not be warranted in depriving Georgia of the original
jurisdiction of this Court merely because each of the defendants could be found in some judicial district. Unless
it were clear that all of them could be found in some convenient forum we could not say that Georgia had a
"proper and adequate remedy" apart from the original
jurisdiction of this Court. Massachusetts v. Missouri,
supra, p. 19. No such showing has been made. Once
a state makes out a case which comes within our original
jurisdiction, its right to come here is established. There
is no requirement in the Constitution that it go further
and show that no other forum is available to it.
It is true that § 5 of the Sherman Act empowers the
court before whom proceedings under § 4 are pending to

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

467

Opinion of the Court.

bring in parties who reside outside the district in which
the court is held."2 That procedure is available in civil
suits brought by the United States. Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1, 46. But since § 4 is limited to
suits brought by the United States, § 5 is similarly confined. See Greer, Mills & Co. v. Stoller, 77 F. 1; Hansen
Packing Co. v. Armour & Co., 16 F. Supp. 784, 787. Apart
from specific exceptions created by Congress the jurisdiction of the district courts is territorial. As stated in
Robertson v. Railroad Labor Board, 268 U. S.619, 622623:
"In a civil suit in personam jurisdiction over the defendant, as distinguished from venue, implies, among
other things, either voluntary appearance by him or service of process upon him at a place where the officer serving
it has authority to execute a writ of summons. Under the
general provisions of law, a United States district court
12

See. 4 reads:

"The several district courts of the United States are invested with
jurisdiction to prevent and restrain violations of sections 1-7 and 15
of this title; and it shall be the duty of the several district attorneys
of the United States, in their respective districts, under the direction
of the Attorney General, to institute proceedings in equity to prevent
and restrain such violations. Such proceedings may be by way of
petition setting forth the case and praying that such violation shall
be enjoined or otherwise prohibited. When the parties complained
of shall have been duly notified of such petition the court shall proceed, as soon as may be, to the hearing and determination of the case;
and pending such petition and before final decree, the court may at
any time make such temporary restraining order or prohibition as!
shall be deemed just in the premises."
Sec. 5 reads:
"Whenever it shall appear to the court before which any proceeding
under section 4 of this title may be pending, that the ends of justice
require that other parties should be brought before the court, the
court may cause them to be summoned, whether they reside in the
district in which the court is held or not; and subpoenas to that end
may be served in any district by the marshal thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

cannot issue process beyond the limits of the district,
Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; Ex parte Graham,3 Wash.
456; and a defendant in a civil suit can be subjected to its
jurisdiction in personam only by service within the district. Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 330. Such was the
general rule established by the Judiciary Act of September
24, 1789, c. 20, § 11, 1 Stat. 73, 79, in accordance with the
practice at the common law. Piquet v. Swan, 5 Mason 35,
39 et seq. And such has been the general rule ever since.
Munter v. Weil Corset Co., 261 U. S. 276, 279."
It follows that we should not in the exercise of our discretion remit Georgia to the federal district courts for
relief against the injuries of which she complains.
The motion for leave to file the amended bill of complaint is granted.
It is so ordered.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, and I think that the application of the State of Georgia for leave to file its amended
bill of complaint in this Court should be denied (1) because in its judicial discretion, this Court should, without
deciding the merits, leave the State to its remedy, if any, in
the district court; (2) because the State lacks standing to
present the only substantial issue in the case; and (3)
because in the present posture of the case, the bill of complaint, for several reasons, fails to state a cause of action
for which a court of equity can give effective relief.
As the Court concedes and for reasons which will presently be more fully considered, the State, under the rule
laid down in Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co.,
260 U. S. 156, cannot maintain its suit for damages resulting from the alleged conspiracy to fix unlawful interstate
railroad freight rates. But the Court grants Georgia's
application to file on the ground that its bill of complaint,

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

"469

C. J., dissenting.

as now amended, states a cause of action under § 16 of the
Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 737, 15 U. S. C. § 26, for an
injunction against a conspiracy in violation of the antitrust
laws. The Court holds that such a suit is within the
original jurisdiction of this Court, conferred by Article
III, § 2, Cls. 1 and 2 of the Constitution. Clause 1 provides that the judicial power of the United States extends
"to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under . . . the
Laws of the United States" and "to Controversies . . .
between a State and Citizens of another State. .. ."
Clause 2 confers on this Court original jurisdiction of
those cases or controversies "in which a State shall be
Party."
The Court disregards the fainthearted and unconvincing assertion of the State that it has a "common law"
cause of action entitling it, independently of the Clayton Act and the federal antitrust laws, to maintain the
present suit to restrain the alleged conspiracy to fix and
maintain rates or charges for the interstate transportation
of freight. We do not stop to consider this contention,
for we are of the opinion that the objections to the maintenance of the present suit are essentially the same,
whether it be regarded as a suit upon a cause of action
arising under the Clayton Act or as one maintainable upon
the equitable principles generally applicable in the federal
courts independently of the Clayton Act.

I
If it be assumed that the State may maintain this action, either as parens patriae or for the injury to itself
as a shipper and consignee of interstate freight, the right
sought to be established is in point of substance like that
of a private corporation, and the remedy asked is one
normally pursued in district courts whose facilities and
prescribed judicial duties are better adapted to the trial
637582°--46-----34

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

of issues of fact than are those of this Court. In an
original suit, even when the case is first referred to a
master, this Court has the duty of making an independent
examination of the evidence, a time-consuming process
which seriously interferes with the discharge of our everincreasing appellate duties. No reason appears why the
present suit may not be as conveniently proceeded with
in the district court of the proper venue as in this Court,
or why the convenience of the parties and witnesses, as
well as of the courts concerned, would be better served by
a trial before a master appointed by this Court than by a
trial in the appropriate district court with the customary
appellate review. The case seems preeminently one where
this Court may and should, in the exercise of its discretion
and in the interest of a more efficient administration of
justice, decline to exercise its jurisdiction, and remit the
parties to the appropriate district court for the proper
disposition of the case there. North Dakota v. Chicago &
Northwestern R. Co., 257 U. S. 485; Georgia v. Chattanooga, 264 U. S. 472, 483; Oklahoma ex rel. Johnson v.
Cook, 304 U. S. 387, 396; Massachusetts v. Missouri,
308 U. S. 1, 17-20.
It is said that Georgia should not be deprived of the
jurisdiction of this Court unless it can bring suit against
all the defendants in one convenient district; and that
there is no reason for assuming that all the defendants are
amenable to suit in any one judicial district. But this
puts the shoe on the wrong foot. It is Georgia which seeks
to invoke our equity jurisdiction to hear this case, and
when the question of our discretionary power to remit the
parties to an adequate remedy in some other court is
raised, it is incumbent upon it to show that it will be unable to reach all the defendants in a convenient district.
And Georgia, although invited on the argument of this
motion to do so, has made no showing that the suit cannot
be proceeded with in a district court as readily as in this

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

471

C. J., dissenting.

Court. It made no such allegation in the amended bill
of complaint which it tenders.' Hence we can only conclude that there is no such obstacle.
Further, it may be readily determined from standard
works of reference, such as The Official Guide of the Railways, Moody's Steam Railroads, railroad timetables, and
telephone directories, that the supposed difficulty is not
a real one. Under § 12 of the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C.
§ 22, these defendants may be sued in any district in
which they are "found" or "transact business." A corporation both is "found" and "transacts business" in a district in which it operates a railroad or in which it maintains an office for the solicitation of freight or passenger
traffic. See Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co.,
273 U. S. 359, 370-374; United States v. Univis Lens Co.,
316 U. S. 241, 246. These facts may be ascertained readily from the sources we have mentioned. It appears from
them that there are several districts which would be as
convenient for a trial as Washington, D. C., where proceedings before this Court would be had, and in which
Georgia may obtain service of process upon at least as
many of the defendants named in the complaint, as it may
sue in this Court. For Georgia, itself, as well as this Court,
seems reconciled to the suit's continuing here with but
eighteen of the twenty defendants, since two may be
required to be dismissed from the suit as citizens of
Georgia.2
ISome reliance is placed on an allegation of the proposed amended
complaint, which, in its context, is that the matters of which complaint is made are not within the jurisdiction of the state courts of
Georgia; but that has no bearing on the question whether they are
within the competence of a federal district court in Georgia or in any
other State.
2These two defendants are the Seaboard Air Line Railway Co.,
and the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry., two of the largest
of the southern defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONa,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

Of the twenty defendants, at least 18, not including
the New York, Chicago & St. Louis R. Co. and the Richmond, Fredericksburg & Potomac R. Co. (R. F. & P.),
are within the jurisdiction of the Northern District of
Georgia. Of these defendants, at least 19, all but the
R. F. & P., transact business in the Northern District of
Illinois and in the Southern District of New York. At
least 18, not including the R. F. & P. and the Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry., are amenable to suit in the
Western District of Pennsylvania and in the Eastern District of Michigan. At least 18, all but the R. F. & P. and
the Carolina, Clinchfield and Ohio Railway,' are suable in
the Eastern District of Missouri. Thus, there is no want
of a suitable forum in which Georgia can reach at least
the same number of defendants as she may sue in this
Court. And it.may be that service can be had on the
other defendants in the districts named.
II
If leave to file were denied, as we think it should be,
without prejudice to a suit in a district court, it would be
unnecessary at this stage of the proceedings to pass upon
the question whether the suit is one which a court of
equity could entertain. But in assuming jurisdiction of
the case, the Court passes on that question. Hence it
becomes necessary to state the reasons why, in the present posture of the case, the State does not state a case
for relief within our original jurisdiction.
The gist of the cause of action asserted by the amended
complaint is the injury visited upon the inhabitants of
the State of Georgia by the alleged conspiracy among
the defendant railroads to fix and maintain unlawfully
excessive and discriminatory rates upon freight moving
3

This defendant has been operating since 1924 as the Clinchfield
Railroad Company, under lease to the Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. and
the Louisville & Nashville R. Co.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

473

C. J., dissenting.

by interstate rail transportation to and from Georgia. It
is further alleged that the conspiracy violates the Sherman
Act, and that its effect is to retard the economic growth
of the State. To this is added what the Court concedes
is a mere "makeweight" allegation of injury to the State
in its capacity as an owner of a railroad, and as a shipper
and consignee of freight.
But the inhabitants of the State who have suffered injury or who are threatened with injury by the unlawful
practices alleged in the amended complaint are alone
entitled to seek a legal remedy for their injury, and are
the proper parties plaintiff in any suit to enforce their
rights which are alleged to have been infringed. It has
long been settled by the decisions of this Court that a
State is without standing to maintain suit for injuries
sustained by its citizens and inhabitants for which they
may sue in their own behalf. New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S.76; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S.1; Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 220 U. S.277, 289;
Oklahoma ex rel. Johnson v. Cook, supra, 395-396; Jones
ex rel. Louisiana v. Bowles, 322 U. S. 707. And many
years ago it was established by decisions of this Court,
whose authority has remained unimpaired until discarded
by the opinion of the Court just announced, that a State
does not stand in such relation to its citizens and inhabitants as to enable it to maintain an original suit in this
Court to protect them by injunction from injuries to the
State's economy resulting from the maintenance of unlawful interstate freight rates. Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. &
S. F. R. Co., supra;ef. Oklahoma v. Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co.,
220 U. S.290, 301.
In the Atchison Railway case the plaintiff State alleged
as the basis for its capacity to sue for relief, see 220 U. S.
at 283-284, as does Georgia here, that the maintenance
of the unlawful structure of freight rates on commodities
widely used by inhabitants of the State was "'a menace

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

to the future of said State' . . . [and] a hindrance to the
growth of the State." This Court nevertheless held that
the wrong was to the individuals of the State, and that the
State was therefore not in a position to bring the suit as
parens patriae.
The federal government is parens patriae with respect
of the cause of action here alleged, and not the State. The
federal government alone stands in such relationship to
the citizens and inhabitants of the United States, as to
permit the bringing of suit in their behalf, to protect them
from the violation of federal laws relating to interstate
commerce. See Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S.447,
485-486; Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S.12, 18; Jones ex rel.
Louisianav. Bowles, supra. The Sherman Act, §§ 1-4, 15
U. S. C. §§ 1-4, recognized that it is the United States
which is parens patriae, when it authorized the United
States, not the individual States, to bring criminal prosecutions or suits for injunctions under the Act.
When the United States brings such a suit it is acting
on behalf of the people of the United States, and in the
national interest. The authority to bring such suits includes the discretionary authority not to bring them, if the
responsible officers of the government are of the opinion
that a suit is not warranted or would be of disservice to
the national interest. To permit a State to bring a Sherman Act suit in behalf of the public is to fly in the face of
the national policy established by Congress that the federal government should determine when such a suit is to
be brought and how it should be prosecuted.
Thus the Sherman Act entrusted to the national government the duty to represent the people in the vindication of their rights under the antitrust laws. And this is
confirmed by § 16 of the Clayton Act, which permits injunction suits by the United States against common carriers in respect of matters within the province of the Interstate Commerce Commission, while prohibiting such suits
to all others, including a State.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

475

C. J., dissenting.

III
But even if, as the Court decides, Georgia has standing
to maintain this suit, either in its own right or as parens
patriae, and this Court has jurisdiction of the suit and
should, in the exercise of its discretion, entertain it rather
than remit the parties to the district court, the more important question remains whether the present suit is one
in which a court of equity can give any effective relief.
The suit, so far as the Court allows its prosecution, is in
equity to restrain an alleged conspiracy by the defendant
rail carriers to fix and maintain unjust, unlawful, excessive, and discriminatory freight rates in violation of
the antitrust laws. Section 16 of the Clayton Act, 15
U. S. C. § 26, authorizes "any person" to maintain a suit
to restrain violations of the antitrust laws, and the State
of Georgia, suing for its own injuries, is a person within
the meaning of that section. Georgia v. Evans, 316 U. S.
159. The section provides that the relief to be given is an
injunction "against threatened loss or damage by a violation of the antitrust laws, . . . when and under the
same conditions and principles as injunctive relief against
threatened conduct that will cause loss or damage is
granted by courts of equity, under the rules governing
such proceedings . . ." And even though, as asserted,
the suit be maintainable in the federal courts independently of the. Clayton Act, the controlling principles governing the maintenance of the suit are the same in either
case. The plaintiff must show threatened injury, Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, 82; Paine
Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459, 471; Duplex Co. v.
Deering,254 U. S. 443, 464-465; compare Texas v. Florida,
306 U. S. 398, 406-412 with Massachusetts v. Missouri,
supra, 15-16, for which he is without other adequate remedy, Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525-526, and
cases cited; Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co., 287 U. S. 92,
94; Myers v. Bethlehem Corp., 303 U. S. 41, 50-52, and

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

cases cited, and for which a court of equity is able to
provide a remedy.
Georgia is threatened with injury only as the alleged
conspiracy will result in the defendants' charging freight
rates other than those which would exist in the absence
of the conspiracy. That is, Georgia is not injured unless
other rates than those now in force would be charged if
the alleged conspiracy were to cease. While threatened
damage in that sense could be assumed in a free competitive market, freight rates are not, under the Interstate
Commerce Act, arrived at by the processes of free competition. The requirements of the Act are, as we will see,
that the rates be just and reasonable and that they accord
with the national transportation policy; the determination, in the first instance, whether the rates conform to
those standards is left by Congress to the Interstate Commerce Commission, not to the courts. And unless Georgia
can show that the present rates are unlawful, or that some
other rate structure, which could be substituted for that
now in force, would be just and reasonable, which Georgia
cannot do without prior resort to the Commission, it can
not show that any other structure could lawfully exist or
that any injury to it is threatened by the conspiracy.
It follows from this that the prerequisites to the maintenance of the present suit are lacking for the following
reasons: First, the State has not availed itself of or exhausted the administrative remedies provided by the Interstate Commerce Act, which may afford an adequate
remedy and which must in any case precede the institution of the present suit in equity. Second, the suit as
now framed falls within the proviso of § 16 of the Clayton
Act denying to any "person," except the United States,
authority "to bring suit in equity for injunctive relief
against any common carrier subject to the provisions of"
the Interstate Commerce Act, "in respect of any matter
subject to the regulation, supervision, or other jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission." And

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

third, in the absence of a determination by the Commission of the unlawfulness of the interstate freight tariffs
filed or proposed to be filed by the several defendant carriers, no court of equity could, within the scope of its
authority, frame a decree effectively enjoining an agreement or "conspiracy" to file tariffs establishing interstate
freight rates.
First. The fact that a State may constitutionally invoke
the jurisdiction of this Court in a suit brought by it against
citizens of another State, does not dispense with the further requisite that if equitable relief is sought, the bill of
complaint must state a cause of action cognizable in
equity, of such a nature that the Court can give relief.
Texas v. Florida, supra, 405. It is, as we have said, a
familiar principle governing the exercise of equity jurisdiction of federal courts that equitable relief may be invoked only when the plaintiff is without other adequate
remedy. And it is a corollary of this that a suitor may
not seek such relief until he has exhausted his available
administrative remedies. Myers v. Bethlehem Corp.,
supra, 51, n. 9, and cases cited; Natural Gas Co. v. Slattery,
302 U. S.300, 310-311.
Here, by the terms of § 16 of the Clayton Act, as well as
the principles generally governing equitable relief in the
federal courts, the State, in order to secure the aid of equity,
must show injury caused or threatened by the alleged unlawful acts of which it complains. Since the wrongful acts
relied upon are a conspiracy to adopt and maintain unjust,
unlawful, excessive or discriminatory freight rates, the
only threatened injury to the State or its inhabitants,
resulting from the conspiracy, is that which is or may be
caused by such unlawful rates.
But the Interstate Commerce Act requires all interstate
rail carriers, before putting into effect rates or charges for
interstate transportation to adopt and file with the Commission just and reasonable rates. §§ 1 (4) (5) (6), 6 (1)
(3), 49 U. S. C. §§ 1 (4) (5) (6), 6 (1) (3). It confers on

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

the Commission exclusive jurisdiction to determine the
lawfulness of all rates appearing in the filed tariffs, and
authority to suspend rates, and to order the railroad to
cease and desist from charging other than the lawful rates.
§§ 15 (1) (7), 49 U. S. C. § 15 (1) (7). The Commission's
determination is to be in accordance with the "national
transportation policy," to develop and preserve a national
transportation system, see Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 585; New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 189-190; Railroad
Commission v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331, 341342, and to establish and maintain "reasonable charges
I without,.. unfair or destructive competitive
practices . . ." Transportation Act of 1940, c. 722, 54
Stat. 899, § 1.
The Commission is directed to consider the effect of
rates on the movement of traffic, and the need of adequate
and efficient railway transportation service at low cost,
as well as the carriers' need of revenues sufficient to enable them to provide that service. Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended, § 15a, 49 U. S. C. § 15a. In fixing
rates or divisions, the Commission's determination may
take account of the financial needs of the weaker carriers,
by giving them a larger share of divisions, or by a general
rate increase." New England Divisions Case, supra, 1894 Under the recapture clause of the Transportation Act of 1920,
c. 91, 41 Stat. 488, § 422, adding § 15a to the Interstate Commerce Act,

profits of carriers in excess of a fair return were held in trust for
purposes of improving railroad service. Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co.
v. United States, 263 U. S. 456. The recapture clause was repealed
by the Act of June 16, 1933, c. 91, 48 Stat. 220, § 205. But its under-

lying purpose to permit rates sufficient to provide an adequate and
efficient transportation system was reaffirmed by the declaration of a
"National Transportation Policy" which the Commission is commanded to observe, by the Transportation Act of 1940, c. 722, 54
Stat. 899, § 1.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

479

C. J., dissenting.

195; Beaumont, S. L. & W. R. Co. v. United States, 282
U. S. 74; cf. Ann Arbor R. Co. v. United States, 281 U. S.
658. It may fix minimum as well as maximum rates, § 15,
49 U. S. C. § 15, thus permitting it to prevent cut-throat
competition and to protect weaker competitors. It may
consider the effect of competing means of transportation,
or other relevant circumstances and conditions attending
the transportation service. See Barringer& Co. v. United
States, 319 U. S. 1, and authorities cited; and on the considerations upon which the Commission fixes rates, see
Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission, Volume
III-B. These and many other controlling factors, which
enter the Commission's determination of rates, may be
irrelevant to decision in an ordinary Sherman Act case, but
are inextricably interwoven with the present suit, in which
the State must establish that injury to it is threatened by
the conspiracy to fix freight rates.
The Commission's orders are enforceable by injunctions in the district courts. § 16 (12), 49 U. S. C. § 16
(12). And the administrative remedy is exclusive of any
which may be afforded by courts, at least until the Commission has passed upon the validity of the rates and classifications involved. Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Robinson v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506; Northern Pacific R. Co. v.
Solum, 247 U. S. 477; Director General of Railroads v.
Viscose Co., 254 U. S. 498; Midland Valley R. Co. v. Barkley, 276 U. S. 482. Until the Commission acts, no court
can say that the rates are not lawful and reasonable or
that they are not within the lowest range of the zone of
reasonableness. Nor can either be assumed, the burden
being upon Georgia to show that it is injured by the acts
of which it complains. And if the present rates are at
the lowest point of reasonableness, as they well may be,
Georgia is not injured, for in that event no lower rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

could be lawfully enforced by the Commission or the
courts.
It is not without pertinence to the present application
that the State of Georgia and seven other southern States
are parties to proceedings now pending before the Interstate Commerce Commission, Docket No. 28300, Class
Rate Investigation, and Docket No. 28310, Consolidated
Freight Classification, in which the Chairman of the
Georgia Public Service Commission has appeared as the
principal witness on behalf of the State. In these proceedings the witness urged uniformity of rates in southern and
official classification territories, in conformity to the official territory system of rates. The witness relied on
§ 3 (1) of the Act, 49 U. S. C. § 3 (1), making it unlawful
for any rail carrier to make or give undue or unreasonable preferences or advantage to any particular person, locality or particular description of traffic; on § 1 (4)
(5) (6), 49 U. S. C. § 1 (4) (5) (6), requiring common
carriers by rail to establish just and reasonable rates,
fares, charges and classifications; and on § 5 (b) of the
Transportation Act of 1940, which requires the Commission to investigate the lawfulness of rates between-points
in different classification territories and to enter such
orders as may be appropriate for the removal "of any
unlawfulness which may be found to exist."
It is plain that the Commission has jurisdiction in these
proceedings to set aside such unlawful rates as may have
resulted from the conspiracies alleged in the State's
amended complaint. If the Commission orders them set
aside, nothing further remains for any court to do, for
reasons which will presently more fully appear, save only
as it may be asked to review or enforce the Commission's
order. Without prior resort to the Commission, Georgia
does not and cannot establish in a court proceeding that
it is threatened with injury by the conspiracy or that it

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

is necessary for it to resort to the courts to secure the
relief which it seeks in the present suit.
The State seeks to avoid these plain provisions of the
Clayton and Interstate Commerce Acts by its insistence
that by its amended complaint it asks relief not from the
unlawful rates which have been or will be established as
a result of the alleged conspiracy, but from the conspiracy
itself, over which the Interstate Commerce Commission
is said to have no jurisdiction, and from which it can give
no relief. In the State's bill of complaint, as originally
presented, it sought an injunction setting aside the unlawful rates. Evidently realizing that all courts are precluded
from taking such action before the Commission has determined the validity of the rates, the State sought to
overcome the difficulty by an amendment to its bill of
complaint, purporting to withdraw its attack on the rates
and assailing the conspiracy alone. But, as the Court
seems to recognize, even the amended complaint contains allegations and raises issues as to whether the rates
charged by the defendants are discriminatory. The complaint therefore raises questions as to interference with the
primary jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission which are essentially the same as those presented
by the original bill.
This verbal maneuver, as a means of conferring jurisdiction on this Court, is futile, for the reason, as we have
said, that the State cannot maintain its suit in equity
either under § 16 of the Clayton Act or upon general equity
principles, without establishing a threatened injury to
it or those whom it represents. And this is equally true
whether it sues as parens patriaeor as owner of a railroad,
and a shipper and consignee of freight. The threatened
injury can ensue only from the maintenance of the unlawful rates and practices, which are specially charged to be
discriminatory. But "a rate is not necessarily illegal be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

cause it is the result of a conspiracy in restraint of trade in
violation of the Anti-Trust Act. What rates are legal is
determined by the Act to Regulate Commerce" and not by
the antitrust laws. Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R.
Co., supra, 162. Hence it follows in this case that the suit
can be maintained only by showing that the alleged conspiracy has resulted or will result in unlawful rates, or that
without the conspiracy, lawful rates, other than those now
in force, would prevail, determinations which can be made
only by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and which
must be made by it, before this Court can take any judicial
action based upon such determinations.
We assume for present purposes that a conspiracy to fix
lawful rates may be a violation of the antitrust laws,
as was intimated in the Keogh case. But as this Court
there pointed out, pages 161-162, the remedy is not to
be had by the suit of a private individual; "the Government may have redress by criminal proceedings under
§ 3, by injunction under § 4, and by forfeiture under § 6."
The State cannot, more than a private individual, bring
a suit under the Clayton Act to restrain the conspiracy
unless it be a conspiracy to do something injurious to
the plaintiff. The only such injury alleged in a great
variety of ways is that caused by unlawful and discriminatory freight rates established by the conspiracy. No
such injury can be presumed from a conspiracy to fix
lawful rates or to fix any rate unless it can be known
with what new rates those now in force will be replaced
by Commission action.
For this and like reasons, this Court has uniformly
refused to permit a party under guise of suing under the
antitrust laws, to seek in the courts by indirection, determinations which are reserved for the Commission in the
first instance. Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co.,
supra; Central Transfer Co. v. Terminal Railroad Assn.,
288 U. S. 469, 476; Terminal Warehouse Co. v. Pennsyl-

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

483

C. J., dissenting.

vania R. Co., 297 U. S. 500; and compare United States
Navigation Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S. 474; Armour
& Co. v. Alton R. Co., 312 U. S.195. As these cases show,
the State cannot make its assault on a matter said not to
be within the jurisdiction of the Commission, when adjudication must turn upon matters which are within its
jurisdiction. Here the Court cannot ascertain and enjoin threatened injury resulting from a conspiracy to fix
unlawful freight rates without considering their lawfulness and reasonableness, and thus encroaching upon the
authority which Congress has given to the Commission
alone. The case is therefore peculiarly one for the application of the rule that equity will not undertake to give
relief until the plaintiff has exhausted his administrative
remedies, for until that has occurred, it cannot be known
that the plaintiff is without adequate relief or, in the
event that it is not, what relief equity may appropriately
give.
Second. Independent of, but supplementing the considerations which indicate the unmistakable intention of
Congress that a suit like the present should not be made
the means of breaking down the regulatory powers of the
Commission, are the provisions of § 16 of the Clayton Act.
As already noted, a proviso to the section withholds from
''any person" other than the United States the right "to
bring suit in equity for injunctive relief against any common carrier subject to the provisions of" the Interstate
Commerce Act "in respect of any matter subject to the
regulation, supervision, or other jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission."
When the Clayton Act was adopted in 1914, the Commission had already been given broad powers to fix and
regulate rates by the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, and the Mann-Elkins Act of June
18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539. Congress realized the
danger that indiscriminate suits for injunctions under the

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

antitrust laws, in many cases affecting interstate rail
carriers, would substitute the many district courts for the
Commission, the single rate-making authority, a retrogression from the consistent Congressional policy to
avoid confusion and conflict in this field. Hence, when
Congress, by § 16 of the Clayton Act, for the first time
authorized private suitors to seek relief by injunction
under the antitrust laws, it was at pains to bar such suits
against carriers with respect to any matters within the
province of the Commission. Thus it was the purpose of
§ 16 to preclude the breakdown of the unified rate structure established for the nation by the Commission, as
would inevitably result from the maintenance under the
Sherman Act of numerous individual suits, like the
present one, affecting rates which Congress had left within
the Commission's exclusive control in the first instance.
The statutory command can no more be evaded than
may the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commission to regulate rates, by saying that the "relief" which Georgia seeks
is not a matter subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission. Section 16 does not foreclose a suit merely where
the "relief" is a matter subject to the jurisdiction of the
Commission. Its words are much broader. They deny
the remedy, except to the United States, "in respect of
any matter subject to . . . the jurisdiction" of the Commission. As we have said, Georgia cannot show damage
save by showing that the Commission would approve some
rate structure other than that presently existing. That
is certainly a "matter subject to the . . . jurisdiction" of
the Commission, sufficient to preclude a suit under § 16.
The inseparability of equitable relief against a ratemaking conspiracy from that against the unlawfulness of
the rates which are or may be its fruits, has already been
pointed out. Suffice it to say here that precisely the argument now made for disregarding the prohibition of § 16
was rejected by this Court in a suit brought by an injured

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

private party to restrain agreements or conspiracies to do
acts within the jurisdiction of the Commission. Central
Transfer Co. v. Terminal Railroad Assn., supra. And
compare United States Navigation Co. v. CunardS. S. Co.,
supra,where this Court gave the like construction to § 16
of the Clayton Act, in its comparable relation to the
authority of the Shipping Board to fix rates under the
Shipping Act of 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, 46 U. S. C.
§§ 801-842, as amended by the Merchant Marine Act of
1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988.
In the Central Transfer Co. case it was urged that § 16
of the Clayton Act did not preclude the relief sought,
since the Commission did not have jurisdiction over the
agreements or contracts complained of, but only over
the acts involved in their performance. This Court gave
the conclusive answer which we think should be given now,
that no injunction could be effectively given against the
agreement or conspiracy without in some manner relating
it to the lawfulness of the acts done or to be done in
execution of the agreement or contract, and that the determination of the lawfulness of those acts and their regulation were within the exclusive jurisdiction of the administrative agency. In that case, as well as in the United
States Navigation Co. case, it was pointed out that any
other construction would defeat the plain purpose of § 16
to preclude, except in suits by the Government, judicial
interference with or prejudgment of the lawfulness of
matters which Congress has indubitably placed within the
jurisdiction, of the administrative agency.
Equitable relief under § 16 in the present case must be
denied upon the principle identical with that upon which
the Court has relied in denying the right of the State to
recover damages in the suit which it proposes here. The
fact that in this branch of the case, as in Keogh v. Chicago
& Northwestern R. Co., supra, and Terminal Warehouse
Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra, the suit is for damages
637582 o--46-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

resulting from unlawful rates, instead of an injunction
restraining threatened damage or injury, is without significance. For in either case, damage cannot ensue unless
the agreement or conspiracy results in an unlawful rate or
practice of whose lawfulness the Commission is the sole arbiter. And in both, this Court has held that the suit cannot
be maintained without first resorting to the Commission.
Congress did not see fit by its extensive revision of the
Interstate Commerce Act in the Transportation Act of
1940, to alter the application of the Clayton Act to the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
For us to alter it now to meet the exigencies of a particular case, which presents no plausible relevant differences
from those which we have heretofore decided, is an assumption of power which only Congress could rightly
exercise, and a power which it has plainly declined to
exercise.
Third. Even assuming, as the State does, and as the
Court is persuaded, that a court of equity could be called
upon to enjoin a conspiracy to establish rates in anticipation of a determination of their unlawfulness, it would
plainly be impossible to frame a decree for relief in advance of a determination by the Commission that the
present rates are unlawful, or that those resulting from
the decree would be lawful. Courts cannot enjoin, in
general terms, violations of the Sherman Act, without
specifying what acts are to be enjoined as violations, or as
aiding or inducing violations. Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 396; Swift & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 311, 328; cf. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361, 404; Labor
Board v. Express Publishing Co., 312 U. S. 426. Nor can
it determine in advance what rates may be lawfully established since the jurisdiction to make that determination
is reserved exclusively to the Commission.

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

487

C. J., dissenting.

Hence the suggestion, which the Court has been persuaded to accept, that this Court can find a way to enjoin
the alleged conspiracy to fix rates, without regard to what
rates are or may be agreed upon and whether the Commission finds them to be lawful or unlawful, is an invitation to a course of the veriest futility. Any injunction
which this Court could properly frame must not be an idle
gesture. It must be one to prevent the threatened injury.
An injunction to prevent a conspiracy without relation
to its injurious consequences could not have that effect,
and the injunction could be related to those consequences
in this case only by defining rates and practices which the
Commission has not declared, and may or may not declare,
to be unlawful.
It is futile to attempt to enjoin a conspiracy to fix rates
because of their injurious effect on the plaintiff, unless it
is known that they are unlawful or will be and unless the
Court is free to determine the point. And it is futile for
this Court to attempt to prescribe what rates will be lawful since its determination will not be binding upon the
Commission, and may be ignored by it. Indeed, even after
the Commission has made such a determination this
Court, in the first instance, is without power to set it
aside, North Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co.,
supra; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 258 U. S.
158, 164-165, for exclusive jurisdiction to set aside an
order of the Commission is vested in a district court of
three judges under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, c. 32, 38
Stat. 219, as amended, 28 U. S. C. §§ 41 (28), 43.
It is the duty of this Court to dismiss an original suit
in which it cannot make an effective decree. See Arizona
v. California, 298 U. S. 558, 572, and cases cited. A
fortiori, it is its duty not to entertain such a suit.
The soundness and the compelling necessity for the constfuction which the Court has hitherto given to § 16 of
the Clayton Act could not be better illustrated and em-

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

phasized than by reference to the situation exhibited by
the case which is now before us. Any decree, effective to
prevent the injury of which the State complains, would
necessarily result in further inequalities in rates, such
as are now alleged to exist. The Court cannot enjoin as
unlawful the alleged conspiracy to establish rates without
undertaking to say what rates and practices are to be
deemed lawful and what unlawful. But by this determination the Interstate Commerce Commission would
not be bound, nor would the United States or any railroad
other than those which are parties defendant.
Only Georgia would secure relief approximating that
sought by the bill. If relief enjoining the conspiracy complained of were effective to relieve the State of the injury
from unlawful rates to which it objects, and without which
it could not maintain the suit under § 16, the decree must
result in a new rate structure applicable to the railroads
which are parties defendant. Prejudice and discrimination would be created as to every other State in southern
territory and as to shippers and consignees of freight in
those States who would still be governed by the published
tariff rates, against which only Georgia and its citizens
would haye secured some measure of relief. There would
be two sets of rates between the south and the north, one,
effected as a result of this Court's decree, applicable to
shippers in Georgia over the railroads which are defendants here, and another governed by published tariffs approved by the Commission and applicable to all other
shippers and railroads in the south. Since illegality in
existing rates is averred because of disparity in the level
of rates in two rate-making areas, with no allegation that
southern carriers receive more than a fair charge for their
transportation service, the Court would be required to
determine whether the discrimination should be removed
byincreasing rates in official territory or establishing an
intermediate level of new rates, Interstate Commerce

GEORGIA v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
439

STONE,

489

C. J., dissenting.

Commission v. United States, 289 U. S. 385, 392-a determination which could be arrived at only by the performance by this Court of the legislative function of
rate making which has hitherto been reserved to the
Commission.
If all this is to be avoided by the injunction against the
alleged conspiracy, but without enjoining any of its asserted evil consequences in rate making, the issue originally tendered would, by the amendment to the bill of
complaint, seem to amount to little if anything more than
a political issue. The amended complaint alleges that
"The wrong done transcends that experienced by individuals. For as men, firms, and corporations have come and
gone, the conspiracy has continued over the decades."
While trial upon the original complaint might have reduced this grievance to the dimensions of a cause of action
to enjoin illegal freight rates injurious to the State, it
now appears as the grievance of a section of the country
against an existing federal system of rate making, which
should be addressed to Congress rather than to this
Court.
The support which the Department of Justice lends to
Georgia's contentions by the brief amicus, filed in this
Court in behalf of the United States, removes any evident
need for entertaining this suit. The Government is
charged with the enforcement of the antitrust laws, and
is authorized by § 4 of the Sherman Act and § 16 of the
Clayton Act to maintain suits for that purpose, which
others cannot bring. If it believes that the alleged conspiracy exists and should be stopped by the remedial action of courts, without resort to the Commission, there
would seem to be iio reason why, avoiding the many
technical obstacles to the present suit, it should not proceed to remedy in the usual manner the grievances of
the citizens of the United States including citizens of
Georgia.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

Other objections aside, it seems obvious that this Court
cannot give any effective relief removing the threat of
injury to the State resulting from a railroad rate conspiracy without breaking down the system of rate regulation by the Commission-a system which Congress has
painstakingly built up since the decisions, more than
forty-five years ago, in United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, and United States v. Joint
Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505, when the Commission was
without power to prescribe rates. See Texas & Pacific
R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., supra; Terminal Warehouse Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., supra, 513.
The reasoning of the Court is not and cannot be restricted to this case. If Georgia may prosecute the present suit, every shipper or consignee of freight who asserts
injury by a conspiracy respecting railroad rates in violation of the antitrust laws may maintain a like suit in
a district court. The prosecution of such suits cannot
fail to bring chaos into the field of interstate rate making.
The entry of decrees for the plaintiffs could only mean
the breakdown of the unified system of fixing rates by
Commission action, which Congress has ordained by the
Interstate Commerce Act. It was the purpose of § 16
of the Clayton Act to preclude such a breakdown. Its
purpose can and should be effected by the refusal of this
Court to entertain the proposed suit.
A. H. PHILLIPS, INC. v. WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION,
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 608. Argued March 2, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.

1. Provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act granting exemptions
from the operation of the Act are to be narrowly construed.

P. 493.

