OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

J. F. FITZGERALD CONSTRUCTION CO. v.
PEDERSEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 462. Argued February 5, 1945.-Decided April 9, 1945.
1. An employee is not entitled to interest on sums recovered in an
action for overtime compensation and liquidated damages under
§ 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Arsenal Bldg. Corp. v.
Greenberg,ante, p. 697. P. 724.
2. The uncontested facts of record show that the employees in question were engaged in repairing abutments and substructures of
bridges which were part of the line of an interstate railroad, sustaining the conclusion that they were "engaged in (interstate) commerce" and covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 724.
293 N. Y. 126, 56 N. E. 2d 77, affirmed in part.

323 U. S. 698, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for the plaintiffs in a suit for overtime compensation and liquidated damages under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Henry E. Foley for petitioner.
Mr. William E. J. Connorfor respondent.
Solicitor GeneralFahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Jerome
H. Simonds, Douglas B. Maggs, George M. Szabad, Albert
A. Spiegel and Miss Bessie Margolin filed a brief on behalf
of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S.
Department of Labor, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered

the opinion of the Court.

The writ of certiorari in the instant case raises two
questions for consideration: the first, whether an employee who obtains a judgment for unpaid overtime wages

FITZGERALD CO. v. PEDERSEN.
720

Opinion of the Court.

and liquidated damages under § 7 (a) 1 and § 16 (b) 2 of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 is entitled to interest on such sums; the second, a narrow question with
respect to the interpretation of a judgment of this Court,
which was entered in its per curiam opinion on a prior
writ of certiorari, reversing a prior state court judgment
in this same case.
The proceedings leading to the first writ began when the
respondent, Pedersen, an employee of the petitioner, a
construction company, instituted an action in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, in behalf of himself and
1Section 7 (a), 52 Stat. 1063, provides:
"No employer shall, except as otherwise provided in this section,
employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce(1) for a workweek longer than forty-four hours during the first
year from the effective date of this section,
(2) for a workweek longer than forty-two hours during the second
year from such date, or
(3) for a workweek longer than forty hours after the expiration of
the second year from such date,
unless such employee receives compensation for his employment in
excess of the hours above specified at a rate not less than one and
one-half times the regular rate at which he is employed."
2 Section 16 (b), 52 Stat. 1069, provides:
"Any employer who violates the provisions of section 6 or section
7 of this Act shall be liable to the employee or employees affected in
the amount of their unpaid minimum wages, or their unpaid overtime compensation, as the case may be, and in an additional equal
amount as liquidated damages. Action to recover such liability may
be maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction by any one or
more employees for and in behalf of himself or themselves and other
employees similarly situated, or such employee or employees may
designate an agent or representative to maintain such action for and
in behalf of all employees similarly situated. The court in such
action shall, in addition to any judgment awarded to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs, allow a reasonable attorney's fee to be paid by the defendant, and costs of the action."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

other employees, to recover overtime compensation and
liquidated damages alleged to be due by virtue of §§ 7
and 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. The action
was tried on an agreed statement of facts which stated
that the New York Central Railroad Company operated
interstate trains over four bridges located on its right of
way in the State of New York; that abutments supporting
two bridges were destroyed and that the substructures of
the two other bridges were damaged by a flood. The stipulation also stated:
"Thereafter, the railroad company entered into a contract with the defendant, an independent contractor engaged in general construction work, for the construction
of entirely new abutments under the two bridges where
the abutments had been washed out and destroyed, as
aforesaid, and for repairing the substructures of the other
two bridges which had been damaged, as aforesaid.
"Defendant employed plaintiffs, together with other individuals, as its employees in doing work under said contract and paid them at the rates per hour, as shown on
Schedule 'A' annexed hereto."
After making findings of fact in conformity with the
stipulation, the trial court dismissed the respondents' complaint.' The Appellate Division' and Court of Appeals '
affirmed the lower court decision on the theory that the
nature of the employer's general business activity-not
the activities of employees on a particular job-determined whether an employee was "engaged in [interstate]
commerce" within the meaning of § 7 (a) of the Act. Since
the petitioner, an independent contractor not itself engaged in interstate commerce, was employed by the rail3Pedersen v. Fitzgerald Construction Co., 173 Misc. 188, 18 N. Y. S.

2d 920.
4 Id., 262 App. Div. 665, 30 N. Y. S. 2d 989.
5
Id., 288 N. Y. 687, 43 N. E. 2d 83, affirming without opinion.

FITZGERALD CO. v. PEDERSEN.
720

Opinion of the Court.

road to perform work local in character, it was felt petitioner's employees were not subject to the Act. On petition for certiorari, this Court reversed 6 the judgment of
the state courts dismissing the complaint, on the authority of Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125, in
which the Fair Labor Standards Act was held to apply to
employees engaged in the actual repair of a facility of interstate commerce. On petition for rehearing by the petitioner in the instant case, our judgment was amended by
adding:
"and without prejudice to a determination of the nature
of the employment of any members of the class on whose
behalf this suit has been brought." 318 U. S. 742.
This left open for trial the question of whether each member of the class was engaged in interstate commerce as
alleged in the petition.
After remand to the state courts, the petitioner moved
in the trial court to dismiss the complaint on the record of
the prior proceedings apparently on the theory that the
agreed statement of facts in the prior proceedings were insufficient to prove that the respondents, employees, were
"engaged in [interstate] commerce." Petitioner did not
attempt to introduce any evidence rebutting any inference to the contrary that might be drawn from the stipulation of facts in the record. Respondents thereupon moved
for summary judgment under Rule 113 of the New York
Rules of Civil Practice. The lower court entered judgment for the respondents, employees, for statutory wages
and liquidated damages, with interest on such sums from
April 1, 1939.' The Appellate Division 8 and Court of
Appeals affirmed this decision.' Because the allowance of
8

Id., 318 U. S. 740.
unreported.
8 Pedersen v. Fitzgerald Construction Co., 266 App. Div. 1032, 44
N. Y. S. 2d 595.
9 Id., 293 N. Y. 126, 56 N. E. 2d 77.
7Opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

interest by the Court of Appeals raised a federal question
of substance not heretofore determined by this Court, and
in order to clarify doubts as to the meaning of our previous judgment in this case, we granted certiorari." Jurisdiction of this Court rests on § 237 (b) of the Judicial
Code.
In Arsenal Building Corp. v. Greenberg, No. 421, ante,
p. 697, we held that an employee was not entitled to interest on sums recovered in an action brought under § 16 (b)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. This question is discussed in that opinion and for the reasons set forth therein,
we hold that the New York Court of Appeals erred in
allowing interest on the sums recovered by the respondents in the instant case.
Petitioner contends that the state courts erred in sustaining a judgment for respondents. It is argued that the
latter failed to satisfy the burden of proof that the particular activities of the respondents constituted engaging
"in [interstate] commerce." We are of a contrary opinion. The agreed statement of facts, which was part of
the record both for purposes of petitioner's motion to dismiss and respondents' motion for summary judgment,
constitutes sufficient evidence to support the state courts'
ruling in this matter.1 The agreed statement of facts
states that the petitioner entered into a contract with the
railroad "for the construction of entirely new abutments
under the two bridges . . . and for repairing the substructures of the other two bridges," all four of these bridges
being part of the railroad's interstate line. It was also
stipulated that the respondents were "doing work under
said contract." It is clear that employees who actually
repair abutments or substructures of bridges on which are
laid tracks used in interstate transportation are "engaged
in [interstate] commerce." Overstreet v. North Shore
10323

U. S. 698.

nSee supra,p. 722.

FITZGERALD CO. v. PEDERSEN.
720

Opinion of the Court.

Corp., 318 U. S. 125, 130; McLeod v. Threlkeld, 319 U. S.
491, 494. The stipulation of facts in this case recites
specifically and precisely that the contract was for such
work and also that the respondents were engaged in doing
work under said "contract." The stipulation of facts
would not seem to embrace activities not essential and a
part of the main work of repair. This interpretation of
the stipulation accords with that adopted by the state
trial court."2 In amending our judgment on rehearing'"
when this case was previously before us on writ of certiorari, the way was opened to petitioner to contest the
issue of whether each respondent was himself actually
engaged in interstate commerce. A doubt had arisen as
to whether this could be done because our judgment of
reversal was based explicitly on the Overstreet case, and
in that decision we conclusively determined that the particular employees there involved were covered by the Act.
On the remand to the state courts, petitioner did not contest respondents' claim on this issue although it appears
it could have done so when the respondents moved for
summary judgment. 4 Since the uncontested facts in the
record are to the effect that the respondents were actually
engaged in repairing the abutments and substructure, the
12

The New York trial court stated in its opinion (unreported):

"The fair import of these conceded facts is that defendant was
engaged in certain work, and that plaintiff and his associates were
its employees, not generally, but in doing this particular work ...
But in any event the conceded facts, in my judgment, embrace no
activities not essential to the main work of repair (Pedersen v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146). Such, I think, was the fair
import of the facts as contemplated by the parties when the agreed
statement was made ..
13 318 U. S. 742.

The trial court stated in its opinion (unreported):
"It was no more a direction to the plaintiff than it was a permission
to the defendant to reopen the matter, if either so desired, and could
so do under our practice, for the purpose of getting further proof
as to the precise activities of plaintiff and his associates."
14

637582---46-

50

726

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U.S.

judgment of the state court must be sustained in this
respect.
The judgment of the state court is affirmed except in so
far as it provides for recovery of interest on the sums
adjudged to be due respondents under the Act; in this
latter respect the judgment is reversed.
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING CO. ET AL. V. FEDERAL

TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 680.

Argued February 28, March 1, 1945.-Decided April 23,1945.

1. By petitioners' basing-point system of pricing in their sales of
glucose, their product was sold at delivered prices computed by adding to a base price at Chicago the published freight tariff from
Chicago to the delivery points, even though deliveries were in fact
made from their Kansas City factory as well as from their Chicago
factory. On shipments from Kansas City, the delivered price to the
purchaser thus depended not only on the base price plus the actual
freight from Kansas City, but also upon the difference between the
actual freight paid and the freight rate from Chicago. Held:
(A) The price discriminations resulting from petitioners'
basing-point system violated § 2 (a) of the Clayton Act, as amended.
Pp. 732, 737.
(a) It is immaterial that there was no discrimination between
buyers at the same points of delivery. P. 734.
(b) There is nothing in the legislative history of the Clayton
Act or the amendatory Robinson-Patman Act which confines their
application to discriminations between buyers at the same destination. P. 734.
(c) The contention that basing-point systems were well
known prior to the enactment of the Robinson-Patman Act and
were considered by Congress to be legal, and that their legality
should be sustained in the absence of a clear command to the
contrary, is rejected. P. 734.
(d) Maple FlooringAssn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 563, and
Cement Manufacturers Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, distinguished. P. 735.

