OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

324 U. S.

der v. United States, 312 U. S. 335. But these are instances of proper statutory construction quite irrelevant
to the present case. It is one thing for judges not to excise a particular situation from language appropriately
describing a general problem. Judicial interpolation into
a statute of a wholly unrelated problem not envisaged
by Congress is quite another matter. In this case we have
not an unforeseen situation fitting into a general context.
Here we have an unforeseen problem with which Congress
did not deal and yet, by not dealing with it, is said to have
taken away authority theretofore belonging to the Secretary of the Treasury. If the problem itself was not in the
contemplation of Congress, as this problem was not, how
can it be said that Congress legislated concerning that
problem?
The judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK joins in this dissent.
PRICE, TRUSTEE, ET AL. V. GURNEY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 410. Argued January 12, 1945.-Decided February 5, 1945.
1. The bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction to entertain a Chapter X petition filed on behalf of a corporation (organized under
state law) by stockholders who under the local law are without
authority to institute such proceedings, even though that authority might have been obtainable under the local law by proceedings

in another forum. P. 106.
2. Under the Bankruptcy Act, the power of the bankruptcy court
over the debtor and its property prior to the approval of the peti-

tion does not extend to this situation. P. 106.
142 F. 2d 404, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 696, to review the reversal of an
order of the bankruptcy court dismissing a petition under
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act.

PRICE v. GURNEY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Wm. W. Keifer, with whom Mr. George W. Tehan
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Charles W. Stiefel, Jr., with whom Mr. I. E. Ferguson was on the brief, for respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Roger S. Foster, Milton V. Freemanand Theodore L. Thau filed a brief on behalf of the Securities & Exchange Commission, as amicus
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Western Tool & Manufacturing Co. is an Ohio
corporation. It has outstanding some 1,100 shares of stock
and also bonds which total in principal amount $73,000
with large arrearages of interest. Some twenty years ago,
following a default in payment of interest on the bonds,
more than 50 per cent of the shares of stock were placed
in a voting trust, the voting trustees being designated by
the bondholders. The bonds were deposited with a bondholders' committee. The voting trustees were members
of the bondholders' committee; and some of the voting
trustees were also directors and officers of the company.
Since the voting trust was formed the bondholders have
been in control of the company. Directors have been
elected by the voting trustees. In 1942 the trustee under
the mortgage deed of trust filed a petition to foreclose the
lien of the bondholders in an Ohio court. The court appointed one of the voting trustees receiver; and he has
operated the company as a going concern since that time.
The company filed its answer in the foreclosure proceeding, admitting the allegations of the bill and consenting
to the appointment of a receiver. Thereafter a judgment
was entered on the mortgage for some $134,000. Respondent acting on behalf of himself and other holders of shares
or of voting trust receipts moved to set the judgment of
637582-46--1

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

.324 U. S.

the state court aside. We are told that that motion was
denied. It does not appear whether there was an appeal
from that denial or whether respondent sought to intervene in the foreclosure proceedings. Respondent as owner
of 7 shares of stock and as agent for owners of some 675
shares (including certain shares deposited under the
voting trust) also filed a petition in the name of Western
Tool & Manufacturing Co. in the District Court asking
that the company be given relief under Chapter X of the
Bankruptcy Act. 52 Stat. 883, 11 U. S. C. § 501. The
petition stated, among other things, that the value of the
assets of the company was greatly in excess of the indebtedness and that that value would be lost to the stockholders in the foreclosure action. Respondent accompanied the petition with an affidavit which stated that
an unsuccessful attempt had been made to have the corporation file the petition. The affidavit set forth rather
serious charges against the management of the company. It alleged that the directors were unlawfully
elected and that the corporation was without a de jure
board. It alleged that certain of the directors were occupying conflicting and inconsistent fiduciary positions,
i. e. as members of the committee their fiduciary responsibility was to the bondholders, as voting trustees
their fiduciary duties were to the depositing stockholders,
as directors and officers their fiduciary obligation was
to all the stockholders, depositing and non-depositing. It charged them with acts of mismanagement,
with dissipation of the assets of the company, and
with management of the company solely for the benefit of
the bondholders and against the interests of the stockholders. It alleged that the voting trust was illegal and
void and was no longer in effect since it had by its terms
expired. And it asserted that the only way in which the
value of the stockholders' equity in the company could be
preserved was by reorganization in bankruptcy.

PRICE v. GURNEY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court first approved the petition as properly filed. Later the bondholders' committee and the
corporation filed motions to dismiss the petition on the
grounds, among others, that the board of directors of the
company had not authorized it. A hearing was held, following which the District Court dismissed the petition.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, one judge dissenting. 142 F. 2d 404. The case is here on a petition for
a writ of certiorari which we granted because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the
Bankruptcy Act.
Chapter X provides in § 126 that
"A corporation, or three or more creditors who have
claims against a corporation or its property amounting in
the aggregate to $5,000 or over, liquidated as to amount
and not contingent as to liability, or an indenture trustee
where the securities outstanding under the indenture are
liquidated as to amount and not contingent as to liability,
may, if no other petition by or against such corporation is
pending under this chapter, file a petition under this
chapter."
A creditor is defined in § 106 (4) as the holder of any
"claim." A claim is defined in § 106 (1) so as to exclude
stock. And a petition is defined as one filed under Chapter X by a debtor, creditors, or indenture trustee. § 106
(9). It is therefore apparent that Congress has not given
to stockholders the right to file petitions under Chapter X.
The absence of that right is emphasized when we turn to
other provisions of the chapter which define the rights of
stockholders in these reorganization proceedings. When
a debtor is continued in possession, a plan may be filed
"by any stockholder, if the debtor is not found to be insolvent." § 170 (3). Any stockholder has the right to
be heard "on all matters arising in a proceeding under this
chapter." § 206. And detailed provisions are included
for the protection of such equity as the stockholders may

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

have in the business. See for example § 179, § 180, § 196,
§ 197, § 216, § 221. Thus the rights which the stockholders are granted by the Act arise after the proceedings
have been instituted. Thereafter they need not be represented solely by the debtor corporation. They may appear in their own right. Indeed, the Act contemplates
their participation in the proceedings for the protection
of such equity as they may have. But the initiation of
the proceedings, like the run of corporate activities, is left
to the corporation itself, i. e. to those who have the power
of management.
These principles are not seriously questioned. And respondents make no. pretense of saying that they in fact
have the power of management over this Ohio corporation
or that § 8623-55 of Ohio's General Corporation Act
which vests the management of Ohio corporations in the
board of directors 1 is inapplicable here. Their theory
rather is that the directors have breached their trust and
have caused the corporation to commit acts which are
confiscatory of the stockholders' interests, that the corporation has a defense against or a remedy in alleviation
of the foreclosure action which the directors refuse to invoke, and that therefore the stockholders under the familiar rules governing derivative actions (Dodge v. Woolsey,
18 How. 331; Davenport v. Dows, 18 Wall. 626; Hawes v.
Oakland, 104 U. S. 450) may proceed on behalf of the
corporation. That was the view which prevailed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals. But we do not think it stands
analysis.
1 That

section reads in part as follows:
"All the capacity of a corporation shall be vested in and all its authority, except as otherwise provided in this act or in the articles in
regard to action required to be taken, authorized or approved by
shareholders, shall be exercised by a board of directors of not less
than three persons, which shall manage and conduct the business of
the corporation."

PRICE v. GURNEY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

There is a misconception running through the presentation of this case which should be noted at the outset.
It is a misnomer to speak of the filing of the petition on
behalf of the corporation as a derivative action. A derivative action is a suit by a shareholder to enforce a corporate cause of action. The corporation is a necessary
party to the suit. And the relief which is granted is a
judgment against a third person in favor of the corporation. That is the rule in Ohio as well as elsewhere. 10
Ohio Juris. §§ 244 et seq.; Dodge v. Woolsey, supra;Davenport v. Dows, supra; Hill v. Murphy, 212 Mass. 1, 98
N. E. 781; Groel v. United Electric Co., 70 N. J. Eq. 616,
61 A. 1061; Continental Securities Co. v. Belmont, 206
N. Y. 7, 99 N. E. 138. Similarly if a corporation has a
defense to an action against it and is not asserting it, a
stockholder may intervene and defend on behalf of the
corporation. 10 Ohio Juris. § 257; Eggers v. National
Radio Co., 208 Cal. 308, 281 P. 58; Fitzwater v. National
Bank, 62 Kan. 163, 61 P. 684. Moreover, equity has
evolved numerous remedies to protect not only the rights
of the corporation but the interests of the stockholders as
such against various acts of mismanagement. See 10 Ohio
Juris. §§ 260 et seq.; Berle, Studies in the Law of Corporation Finance (1928). But respondents have not pursued either course. The petition which they have filed
with the bankruptcy court is not a suit to enforce or protect a corporate right. Nor is it a suit to protect the interests of respondents as stockholders. Yet if it were
either one, the federal District Court could not entertain
it. No diversity of citizenship is shown and no other basis
of federal jurisdiction is apparent. The question therefore is whether the bankruptcy court as an incident of its
bankruptcy powers can give respondents the relief which,
if their charges are taken as true, they might obtain in
another forum. We do not think it can.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

The District Court in passing on petitions filed by corporations under Chapter X must of course determine
whether they are filed by those who have authority so to
act. In absence of federal incorporation, that authority
finds its source in local law. If the District Court finds
that those who purport to act on behalf of the corporation
have not been granted authority by local law to institute
the proceedings, it has no alternative but to dismiss the
petition. It is not enough that those who seek to speak
for the corporation may have the right to obtain that
authority. The jurisdiction which Congress has given the
bankruptcy court over the debtor and its property prior
to the approval of the petition (see § 111, § 112, and § 113)
does not extend to this situation. The District Court in
the exercise of its diversity jurisdiction would of course
have the power to enforce derivative actions,2 to make
faithless directors account, and the like, where local law
permits. But under the Bankruptcy Act the power of the
court to shift the management of a corporation from one
group to another, to settle intracorporate disputes, and to
adjust intracorporate claims is strictly limited to those
situations where a petition has been approved. Thus
§ 156 provides for the displacement of the management
and the appointment of a disinterested trustee ' in case
of certain companies after approval of the petition. In
other situations the court may continue the debtor in
possession. § 156. The plan must include provisions
"which are equitable, compatible with the interests of
creditors and stockholders, and consistent with public
policy" with respect to the manner of selection of directors,
officers and the like. § 216 (11). And the plan must likewise provide for the retention and enforcement of claims,
not settled or adjusted in the plan, which the corporation
2

8

See Rule 23 (b), Rules of Civil Procedure.
As defined in § 158.

PRICE v. GURNEY.
100

Opinion of the Court.

may have against officers, directors, and others. § 216
(13). But nowhere is there any indication that Congress
bestowed on the bankruptcy court jurisdiction to determine that those who in fact do not have the authority to
speak for the corporation as a matter of local law are
entitled to be given such authority and therefore should
be empowered to file a petition on behalf of the corporation. Respondents may have a meritorious case for relief.
On that we intimate no opinion. But if they are to be
allowed to put their corporation into bankruptcy, they
must present credentials to the bankruptcy court showing their authority.
It is argued that circuity of action will be avoided and
the adequacy of stockholders' remedies will be enhanced if
the bankruptcy court is authorized to entertain petitions
like the present one. That may well be true. But any
such enlargement of the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
courts is for Congress. It has chosen to withhold from
stockholders the right to institute these bankruptcy proceedings. In absence of federal incorporation, intracorporate disputes of the character presented here are, as we
have said, governed by state law. The creation of a new
basis of federal jurisdiction to hear them, pass on their
merits, and adjudicate them is a legislative act.
A different question is presented where stockholders
appear in opposition to a petition filed by the corporation.
See § 206. Cf. In re Beaver Cotton Mills, 275 F. 498;
Whittaker v. BrictsonMfg. Co., 43 F. 2d 485.
Reversed.

