REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. BOARD. 793
786

Syllabus.

petitions for habeas corpus, as laid before this Court by
the Attorney General of Nebraska, the meager allegations
of this petition for habeas corpus should preclude our attributing to the Supreme Court of Nebraska a disregard,
in affirming a denial of the petition, of rights under the
Constitution of the United States rather than a denial on
allowable state grounds. Accordingly, I believe the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

join in

this view.
REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
NO. 2 2 6.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*
Argued January 10, 1945.-Decided April 23, 1945.
1. The National Labor Relations Board was warranted in these cases
in finding unfair labor practices, violative of § 8 of the National
Labor Relations Act, in the employer's (1) enforcement of a "nosolicitation" rule against the solicitation of union membership by
employees on company property during lunch hour; (2) discharge
of employees for wearing union "shop steward" buttons in the
plant though at a time when a majority of the employees had not
designated any collective bargaining representative; and (3) enforcement of a general "no-distribution" rule against distribution
of union literature or circulars by employees on their own time
though on parking lots owned by the company and adjacent to the
plant. Pp. 795, 803.
2. As an administrative agency with power after hearings to determine on the evidence in adversary proceedings whether violations
of statutory commands have occurred, the Labor Board, within the
limits of its inquiry, may infer from proven facts such conclusions
as reasonably may be based on the facts proven. P. 800.
*Together with No. 452, National Labor Relations Board v. Le
Tourneau Company of Georgia, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

3. It was reasonable for the Labor Board to adopt a presumption of
invalidity of a company rule forbidding union solicitation by employees on company property outside of working hours, in the
absence of evidence that special circumstances make the rule necessary in order to maintain production or discipline. P. 803.
4. The discharge of an employee for violation of a company rule against
solicitation, which rule was invalid as applied to the union solicitation in which the employee engaged on his own time, was discriminatory within the meaning of § 8 (3) of the Act in that it discouraged
membership in a labor union, notwithstanding that the rule was
enforced impartially against all solicitors. P. 805.
142 F. 2d 193, affirmed.
143 F. 2d 67, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 688, 698, to review, in No. 226, a
decree granting enforcement of an order of the National
Labor Relations Board; and, in No. 452, a judgment setting aside an order of the Board.
Mr. J. Edward Lumbard, Jr., with whom Messrs. John
J. Ryan, FrederickM. Davenport, Jr., Ralstone R. Irvine
and Theodore S. Hope were on the brief, for petitioner in
NO. 226.
Miss Ruth Weyand, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Messrs. Alvin J. Rockwell and Mozart G. Ratner were on
the briefs, for the National Labor Relations Board. Mr.
Robert L. Stern also was on the brief for the Board in
No. 226.
Mr. A. C. Wheeler, with whom Mr. Clifton W. Brannon
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 452.

MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
In the' Republic Aviation Corporation case, the employer, a large and rapidly growing military aircraft manufacturer, adopted, well before any union activity at the
plant, a general rule against soliciting which read as
follows:'

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. BOARD. 795
793

Opinion of the Court.

"Soliciting of any type cannot be permitted in, the factory or offices."
The Republic plant was located in a built-up section of
Suffolk County, New York. An employee persisted after
being warned of the rule in soliciting union membership
in the plant by passing out application cards to employees
on his own time during lunch periods. The employee was
discharged for infraction of the rule and, as the National
Labor Relations Board found, without discrimination, on
the part of the employer toward union activity.
Three other employees were discharged for wearing
UAW-CIO union steward buttons in the plant after being
requested to remove the insignia. The union was at that
time active in seeking to organize the plant. The reason
which the employer gave for the request was that, as the
union was not then the duly designated representative of
the employees, the wearing of the steward buttons in the
plant indicated an acknowledgment by the management
of the authority of the stewards to represent the employees
in dealing with the management and might impinge upon
the employer's policy of strict neutrality in union matters
and might interfere with the existing grievance system of
the corporation.
The Board was of the view that wearing union steward
buttons by employees did not carry any implication of
recognition of that union by the employer where, as here,
there was no competing labor organization in the plant.
The discharges of the stewards, however, were found not
to be motivated by opposition to the particular union or,
we deduce, to unionism.
The Board determined that the promulgation and enforcement of the "no solicitation" rule violated § 8 (1) of
the National Labor Relations Act as :it interfered with,
restrained and coerced employees in their rights under
§ 7 and discriminated against the discharged employee

796

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

under § 8 (3).' It determined also that the discharge of
the stewards violated § 8 (1) and 8 (3). As a consequence
of its conclusions as to the solicitation and the wearing of
the insignia, the Board entered the usual cease and desist
order and directed the reinstatement of the discharged
employees with back pay and also the rescission of "the
rule against solicitation in so far as it prohibits union
activity and solicitation on company property during the
employees' own time." 51 N. L. R. B. 1186, 1189. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed,
142 F. 2d 193, and we granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 688,
because of conflict with the decisions of other circuits.2
In the case of Le Tourneau Company of Georgia, two
employees were suspended two days each for distributing
union literature or circulars on the employees' own time on
company owned and policed parking lots, adjacent to the
company's fenced-in plant, in violation of a long standing
and strictly enforced rule, adopted prior to union organization activity about the premises, which read as follows:
"In the future no Merchants, Concern, Company, or In1 49 Stat. 449, 452:
"SEc. 7. Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to
form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other
mutual aid or protection.
"SEc. 8. It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer"(1) To interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise
of the rights guaranteed in section 7.
"(3) By discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of employment
or any term or condition of employment to encourage or discourage
membership in any labor organization: . . ."
2 Midland Steel Products Co. v. Labor Board, 113 F. 2d 800; Labor
Board v. Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Co., 130 F. 2d 260, 267; Boeing
Airplane Co. v. Labor Board, 140 F. 2d 423; Le Tourneau Co. v.
Labor Board, 143 F. 2d 67.

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. BOARD. 797
793

Opinion of the Court.

dividual or Individuals will be permitted to distribute,
post, or otherwise circulate handbills or posters, or any
literature of any description, on Company property
without first securing permission from the Personnel
Department."
The rule was adopted to control littering and petty pilfering from parked autos by distributors. The Board determined that there was no union bias or discrimination by
the company in enforcing the rule.
The company's plant for the manufacture of earthmoving machinery and other products for the war is in the
country on a six thousand acre tract. The plant is bisected
by one public road and built along another. There is one
hundred feet of company-owned land for parking or other
use between the highways and the employee entrances to
the fenced enclosures where the work is done, so that contact on public ways or on non-company property with
employees at or about the establishment is limited to those
employees, less than 800 out of 2100, who are likely to
walk across the public highway near the plant on their
way to work, or to those employees who will stop their
private automobiles, buses or other conveyances on the
public roads for communications. The employees' dwellings are widely scattered.
The Board found that the application of the rule to the
distribution of union literature by the employees on company property which resulted in the lay-offs was an unfair
labor practice under § 8 (1) and 8 (3). Cease and desist,
and rule rescission orders, with directions to pay the employees for their lost time, followed. 54 N. L. R. B. 1253.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed
the Board, 143 F. 2d 67, and we granted certiorari because
of conflict with the Republic case. 323 U. S. 698.
These cases bring here for review the action of the
National Labor Relations Board in working out an adjustment between the undisputed right of self-organization

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

assured to employees under the Wagner Act and the
equally undisputed right of employers to maintain discipline in their establishments. Like so many others,
these rights are not unlimited in the sense that they can
be exercised without regard to any duty which the existence of rights in others may place upon employer or employee. Opportunity to organize and proper discipline are
both essential elements in a balanced society.
The Wagner Act did not undertake the impossible task
of specifying in precise and unmistakable language each
incident which would constitute an unfair labor practice.
On the contrary, that Act left to the Board the work of
applying the Act's general prohibitory language in the
light of the infinite combinations of events which might
be charged as violative of its terms. Thus a "rigid scheme
of remedies" is avoided and administrative flexibility
within appropriate statutory limitations obtained to
accomplish the dominant purpose of the legislation.
Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 194.
So far as we are here concerned, that purpose is the right
of employees to.organize for mutual aid without employer
interference. This is the principle of labor relations
which the Board is to foster.
The gravamen of the objection of both Republic and
Le Tourneau to the Board's orders is that they rest on a
policy formulated without due administrative procedure.
To be more specific it is that the Board cannot substitute
its knowledge of industrial relations for substantive evidence. The contention is that there must be evidence
before the Board to show that the rules and orders of the
employers interfered with and discouraged union organization in the circumstances and situation of each company.
Neither in the Republic nor the Le Tourneau cases can it
properly be said that there was evidence or a finding that
the plant's physical location made solicitation away from
company property ineffective to reach prospective union

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. BOARD. 799
793

Opinion of the Court.

members. Neither of these is like a mining or lumber
camp where the employees pass their rest as well as their
work time on the employer's premises, so that union
organization must proceed upon the employer's premises
or be seriously handicapped.'
The National Labor Relations Act creates a system for
the organization of labor with emphasis on collective bargaining by employees with employers in regard to labor
relations which affect commerce. An essential part of that
system is the provision for the prevention of unfair labor
practices by the employer which might interfere with the
guaranteed rights. The method for prevention of unfair
labor practices is for the Board to hold a hearing on a
complaint which has been duly served upon the employer
who is charged with an unfair labor practice. At that
hearing the employer has the right to file an answer and
to give testimony. This testimony, together with that
given in support of the complaint, must be reduced to
writing and filed with the Board. The Board upon that
testimony is directed to make findings of fact and dismiss
the complaint or enter appropriate orders to prevent in
whole or in part the unfair practices which have been
charged. Upon the record so made as to testimony and
issues, courts are empowered to enforce, modify or set aside
the Board's orders, 4 subject to the limitation that the findings of the Board as to facts, if supported by evidence, are
conclusive.
Plainly this statutory plan for an adversary proceeding
requires that the Board's orders on complaints of unfair
9 See Sixth Annual Report, National Labor Relations Board, pp.
43, 44; Re Harlan Fuel Co., 8 N. L..R. B. 25, 28, 63; Re West Kentucky Coal Co., 10 N. L. R. B., 88, 105-6, 133; Re Weyerhaeuser
Timber Co., 31 N. L. R. B. 258, 262, 267, 270; cf. Labor Board v.
Waterman S. S. Co., 309 U. S. 206, 224.
Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1; 49 Stat. 449, 452-

455, §§ 7 to 10 inclusive.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

labor practices be based upon evidence which is placed
before the Board by witnesses who are subject to crossSuch procedure
examination by opposing parties!
strengthens assurance of fairness by requiring findings on
known evidence. Ohio Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 301 U. S. 292, 302; United States v. Abilene &
Southern R. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288. Such a requirement
does not go beyond the necessity for the production of
evidential facts, however, and compel evidence as to the
results which may flow from such facts. Market Street
R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 324 U. S. 548, 559. An administrative agency with power after hearings to determine on the evidence in adversary proceedings whether
violations of statutory commands have occurred may infer
within the limits of the inquiry from the proven facts
such conclusions as reasonably may be based upon the
facts proven. One of the purposes which lead to the creation of such boards is to have decisions based upon evidential facts under the particular statute made by experienced officials with an adequate appreciation of the
complexities of the subject which is entrusted to their administration. Labor Board v. Virginia Power Co., 314
U. S. 469, 479; Labor Board v. Hearst Publications,322
U. S. 111, 130.
In the Republic Aviation Corporationcase the evidence
showed that the petitioner was in early 1943 a non-urban
manufacturing establishment for military production
which employed thousands. It was growing rapidly.
Trains and automobiles gathered daily many employees
for the plant from an area on Long Island, certainly larger
than walking distance. The rule against solicitation was
introduced in evidence and the circumstances of its
violation by the dismissed employee after warning was
detailed.
5This is not a statutory administrative hearing to reach a basis for
action akin to legislation. See Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United

$tates, 288 U. S. 294, 304-319.

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. V. BOARD. 801
793

Opinion of the Court.

As to the employees who were discharged for wearing
the buttons of a union steward, the evidence showed in
addition the discussion in regard to their right to wear
the insignia when the union had not been recognized by
the petitioner as the representative of the employees.
Petitioner looked upon a steward as a union representative
for the adjustment of grievances with the management
after employer recognition of the stewards' union. Until
such recognition petitioner felt that it would violate its
neutrality in labor organization if it permitted the display
of a steward button by an employee. From its point of
view, such display represented to other employees that
the union already was recognized.
No evidence was offered that any unusual conditions existed in labor relations, the plant location or otherwise
to support any contention that conditions at this plant
differed from those occurring normally at any other large
establishment.
The Le Tourneau Company of Georgia case also is
barren of special circumstances. The evidence which was
introduced tends to prove the simple facts heretofore set
out as to the circumstances surrounding the discharge of
the two employees for distributing union circulars.
These were the facts upon which the Board reached its
conclusions as to unfair labor practices. The Intermediate
Report in the Republic Aviation case,. 51 N. L. R. B. at
1195, set out the reason why the rule against solicitation
was considered inimical to the right of organization.6
N. L. R. B. 1195:
"Thus, under the conditions obtaining in January 1943, the respondent's employees, working long hours in a plant engaged entirely
in war production and expanding with extreme rapidity, were entirely
deprived of their normal right to 'full freedom of association' in the
plant on their own time, the very time and place uniquely appropriate
and almost solely available to them therefor. The respondent's rule
is therefore in clear derogation of the rights of its employees guaranteed by the Act."
651

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

This was approved by the Board. Id., 1186. The Board's
reasons for concluding that the petitioner's insistence that
its employees refrain from wearing steward buttons appear at page 1187 of the report.' In the Le Tourneau
Company case the discussion of the reasons underlying the
findings was much more extended. 54 N. L. R. B. 1253,
1258, et seq. We insert in the note below a quotation
which shows the character of the Board's opinion.8 Furthermore, in both opinions of the Board full citation of
7 We quote an illustrative portion.
51 N. L. R. B. 1187-88: "We
do not believe that the wearing of a steward button is a representation that the employer either approves or recognizes the union in
question as the representative of the employees, especially when, as
here, there is no competing labor organization in the plant. Furthermore, there is no evidence in the record herein that the respondent's
employees so understood the steward buttons or that the appearance
of union stewards in the plant affected the normal operation of the
respondent's grievance procedure. On the other hand, the right of
employees to wear union insignia at work has long been recognized as
a reasonable and legitimate form of union activity, and the respondent's curtailment of that right is clearly violative of the Act."
854 N. L. R. B. at 1259-60: "As the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit has held, 'It is not every interference with property
rights that is within the Fifth Amendment . . . Inconvenience, or
even some dislocation of property rights, may be necessary in order
to safeguard the right to collective bargaining.' The Board has frequently applied this principle in decisions involving varying sets of
circumstances, where it has held that the employer's right to control
his property does not permit him to deny access to his property to
persons whose presence is necessary there to enable the employees
effectively to exercise their right to self-organization and collective
bargaining, and in those decisions which have reached the courts; the
Board's position has been sustained. Similarly, the Board has held
that, while it was 'within the province of an employer to promulgate
and enforce a rule prohibiting union solicitation during working hours,'
it was 'not within the province of an employer to promulgate and
enforce a rule prohibiting union solicitation by an employee outside
of working hours, although on company property,' the latter restriction. being deemed an unreasonable impediment to the exercise of the
right to self-organization."

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. BOARD.
793

803

Opinion of the Court.

authorities was given, including Matter of Peyton Packing Co., 49 N. L. R. B. 828, 50 N. L. R. B. 355, hereinafter
referred to.'
The Board has fairly, we think, explicated in these cases
the theory which moved it to its conclusions in these cases.
The excerpts from its opinions just quoted show this. The
reasons why it has decided as it has are sufficiently set
forth. We cannot agree, as Republic urges, that in these
present cases reviewing courts are left to "sheer acceptance" of the Board's conclusions or that its formulation
of policy is "cryptic." See Eastern-Central Assn. v.
United States, 321 U. S. 194, 209.
Not only has the Board in these cases sufficiently expressed the theory upon which it concludes that rules
against solicitation or prohibitions against the wearing
of insignia must fall as interferences with union organization, but, in so far as rules against solicitation are concerned,. it had theretofore succinctly expressed the requirements of proof which it considered appropriate to outweigh or overcome the presumption as to rules against
solicitation. In the Peyton Packing Company case, 49
N. L. R. B. 828, at 843, hereinbefore referred to, the presumption adopted by the Board is set forth."
951 N. L. R. B. 1186, 1187, at note 1 and 54 N. L. R. B. 1253, 1260,
at notes 6 and 7.
10 49 N. L. R. B. at 843-44: "The Act, of course, does not prevent an
employer from making and enforcing reasonable rules covering the
conduct of employees on company time. Working time is for work.
It is therefore within the province of an employer to promulgate and
enforce a rule prohibiting union solicitation during working hours.
Such a rule must be presumed to be valid in the absence of evidence
that it was adopted for a discriminatory purpose. It is no less true
that time outside working hours, whether before or after work, or
during luncheon or rest periods, is an employee's time to use as he
wishes without unreasonable restraint, although the employee is on
company property. It is therefore not within the province of an employer to promulgate and enforce a rule prohibiting union solicitation

804

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Although this definite ruling appeared in the Board's
decisions, no motion was made in the court by Republic or
Le Tourneau after the Board's decisions for leave to introduce additional evidence to show unusual circumstances
involving their plants or for other purposes.1 Such a motion might have been granted by the Board or court in
view of the fact that the Intermediate Report in the Republic Aviation case was dated May 21, 1943, and that in
Le Tourneau November 11, 1943, while the opinion in the
Peyton Packing Company case was given as late as May
18, 1943. We perceive no error in the Board's adoption
of this presumption." The Board had previously considered similar rules in industrial establishments and the definitive form which the Peyton Packing Company decision
gave to the presumption was the product of the Board's
appraisal of normal conditions about industrial establishments.' 3 Like a statutory presumption or one established
by an employee outside of working hours, although on company property. Such a rule must be presumed to be an unreasonable impediment to self-organization and therefore discriminatory in the absence
of evidence that special circumstances make the rule necessary in order
to maintain production or discipline."
n 49 Stat. 454-55, § 10 (e) :

"... If either party shall apply to the court for leave to adduce
additional evidence and shall show to the satisfaction of the court that
such additional evidence is material and that there were reasonable
grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence in the hearing before
the Board, its member, agent, or agency, the court may order such
additional evidence to be taken before the Board, its member, agent,
or agency, and to be made a part of the transcript. ..."
12 Compare Labor Board v. Regal Knitwear Co., 140 F. 2d 746,
affirmed on another ground, Regal Knitwear Co. v. Labor Board, 324
U. S. 9; Crichton v. United States, 56 F. Supp. 876, 880.
-Re Denver Tent & Awning Co., 47 N. L. R. B. 586, 588; Re
United States CartridgeCo., 47 N. L. R. B. 896, 897; Re CarterCarburetor Corp., 48 N. L. R. B. 354, 356; Re Scullin Steel Co., 49 N. L.
R. B. 405, 411. See also for comparison the later cases of Re Dallas
Tank & Welding Co., 51 N. L. R. B. 1315; Re Johnson-Stephens &
Shinkle Shoe Co., 54 N. L. R. B. 189, 192.

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORP. v. BOARD. 805
Opinion of the Court.

793

by regulation, the validity, perhaps in a varying degree,
depends upon the rationality between what is proved and
what is inferred.'4
In the Republic Aviation case, petitioner urges that irrespective of the validity of the rule against solicitation,
its application in this instance did not violate §8 (3), note
1, supra,because the rule was not discriminatorily applied
against union solicitation but was impartially enforced
against all solicitors. It seems clear, however, that if a
rule against solicitation is invalid as to union solicitation
on the employer's premises during the employee's own
time, a discharge because of violation of that rule discriminates within the meaning of § 8 (3) in that it discourages membership in a labor organization.
Republic Aviation Corporation v. National Labor Relations Board is affirmed.
National Labor Relations Board v. Le Tourneau Company of Georgia is reversed.
No. 226 affirmed.
No. 4 2 reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissents in each case.

14 Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 43; Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S. 639, 642; Helvering v.
Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 129. Compare Tot v. United States, 319 U. S.
463.

637582 -46-55

