COMMISSIONER v. WEMYSS.
Opinion of the Court.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
WEMYSS.
CERTIORARI TO, THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 629.

Argued January 9, 1945.-Decided March 5, 1945.

1. Pursuant to an antenuptial agreement, respondent made a transfer
of property to his prospective wife in consideration of her promise
of marriage and to compensate for her loss of trust income which
upon her marriage would go to a child by a former marriage. Held

that, under §§ 501 and 503 of the Revenue Act of 1932 and applicable Treasury Regulations, the transfer was a taxable gift in its
entirety. P. 306.
2. The decision of the Tax Court that the transfer was not made for
a "consideration in money or money's worth," within the meaning
of § 503, is binding on review. P. 307.
3. To relieve a transfer from the gift tax under the Revenue Act of
1932 there must be a consideration in money or money's worth of
benefit to the transferor; detriment to the transferee is insufficient.
P. 307.
144 F. 2d 78, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 703, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 876, sustaining the Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in federal gift
taxes.

Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Messrs. Sewall Key and I. Henry Kutz were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Cecil Sims for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1939 taxpayer proposed marriage to Mrs. More, a
widow with one child. Her deceased husband had set up

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

two trusts, one half the income of which was for the benefit
of Mrs. More and the other half for that of the child with
provision that, in the event of Mrs. More's remarriage,
her part of the income ceased and went to the child. The
corpus of the two trusts consisted of stock which brought
to Mrs. More from the death of her first husband to her
remarriage, about five years later, an average income of
$5,484 a year. On Mrs. More's unwillingness to suffer
loss of her trust income through remarriage the parties on
May 24, 1939, entered upon an agreement whereby taxpayer transferred to Mrs. More a block of shares of stock.
Within a month they married. The Commissioner ruled
that the transfer of this stock, the value of which, $149,456.13, taxpayer does not controvert, was subject to the
Federal Gift Tax, §§ 501 and 503 of the Revenue Act of
1932, 47 Stat. 169, 245, 247, 26 U. S. C. §§ 1000, 1002.
Accordingly, he assessed a deficiency which the Tax Court
upheld, 2 T. C. 876, but the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the Tax Court, 144 F. 2d 78. We granted certiorari
to settle uncertainties in tax administration engendered
by seemingly conflicting decisions. 323 U. S. 703.
The answer to our problem turns on the proper application of §§501 (a) and 503 supra to the immediate facts.
These provisions are as follows:
"See. 501. IMPOSITION OF TAX.
(a) For the calendar year 1932 and each calendar year
thereafter a tax, computed as provided in section 502, shall
be imposed upon the transfer during such calendar year
by any individual . . . of property by gift."
"Sec. 503. TRANSFER FOR LESS THAN ADEQUATE AND FULL
CONSIDERATION.

Where property is transferred for less than an adequate
and full consideration in money or money's worth, then
the amount by which the value of the property exceeded
the value of the consideration shall, for the purpose of the
tax imposed by this title, be deemed a gift, and shall be

COMMISSIONER v. WEMYSS.
303

Opinion of the Court.

included in computing the amount of gifts made during
the calendar year."
In view of the major r6le which the Tax Court plays in
Federal tax litigation, it becomes important to consider
how that court dealt with this problem. Fusing, as it were,
§§ 501 and 503, the Tax Court read them as not being
limited by any common law technical notions about "consideration." And so, while recognizing that marriage was
of course a valuable consideration to support a contract,
the Tax Court did not deem marriage to satisfy the requirement of § 503 in that it was not a consideration
reducible to money value. Accordingly, the Court found
the whole value of the stock transferred to Mrs. More
taxable under the statute and the relevant Treas. Reg. 79
(1936 ed.) Art. 8: "A consideration not reducible to a
money value, as love and affection, promise of marriage,
etc., is to be wholly disregarded, and the entire value of
the property transferred constitutes the amount of the
gift." In the alternative, the Tax Court was of the view
that if Mrs. More's loss of her trust income rather than
the marriage was consideration for the taxpayer's transfer
of his stock to her, he is not relieved from the tax because
he did not receive any money's worth from Mrs. More's
relinquishment of her trust income, and, in any event, the
actual value of her interest in the trust, subject to fluctuations of its stock earnings, was not proved. One
member of the Tax Court dissented, deeming that the
gift tax legislation invoked ordinary contract conceptions
of "consideration."
The Circuit Court of Appeals rejected this line of reasoning. It found in the marriage agreement an arm's length
bargain and an absence of "donative intent" which it
deemed essential: "A donative intent followed by a donative act is essential to constitute a gift; and no strained
and artificial construction of a supplementary statute
should be indulged to tax as a gift a transfer actually lacking donative intent." 144 F. 2d 78, 82.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Sections 501 and 503 are not disparate provisions. Congress directed them to the same purpose, and they should
not be separated in application. Had Congress taxed
"gifts" simpliciter,it would be appropriate to assume that
the term was used in its colloquial sense, and a search for
"donative intent" would be indicated. But Congress intended to use the term "gifts" in its broadest and most
comprehensive sense. H. Rep. No. 708, 72d Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 27; S. Rep. No. 665, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 39;
cf. Smith v. Shaughnessy, 318 U. S. 176; Robinette v. Helvering, 318 U. S. 184. Congress chose not to require an
ascertainment of what too often is an elusive state of mind.
For purposes of the gift tax it not only dispensed with the
test of "donative intent." It formulated a much more
workable external test, that where "property is transferred
for less than an adequate and full consideration in money
or money's worth," the excess in such money value "shall,
for the purpose of the tax imposed by this title, be deemed
a gift . . ." And Treasury Regulations have emphasized
that common law considerations were not embodied in the
gift tax.1
To reinforce the evident desire of Congress to hit all the
protean arrangements which the wit of man can devise
that are not business transactions within the meaning of
ordinary speech, the Treasury Regulations make clear
that no genuine business transaction comes within the
purport of the gift tax by excluding "a sale, exchange, or
other transfer of property made in the ordinary course of
business (a transaction which is bona fide, at arm's length,
and free from any donative intent)." Treas. Reg. 79
(1936 ed.) Art. 8. Thus on finding that a transfer in the
I Treas. Reg. 79 (1936 ed.) Art. 1: "Imposition of tax.- .
tax is not limited in its imposition to transfers of property
a valuable consideration, which at common law are treated
but extends to sales and exchanges for less than an adequate
consideration in money or money's worth."

. . The
without
as gifts,
and full

COMMISSIONER v. WEMYSS.
303

Opinion of the Court.

circumstances of a particular case is not made in the ordinary course of business, the transfer becomes subject to
the gift tax to the extent that it is not made "for an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth."
See 2 Paul, Federal Estate and Gift Taxation (1942) p.
1113.
The Tax Court in effect found the transfer of the stock
to Mrs. More was not made at arm's length in the ordinary course of business. It noted that the inducement was
marriage, took account of the discrepancy between what
she got and what she gave up, and also of the benefit that
her marriage settlement brought to her son. These were
considerations the Tax Court could justifiably heed, and
heeding, decide as it did. Its conclusion on the issue
before it was no less to be respected than were the issues
which we deemed it was entitled to decide as it did in
Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489, Commissioner v.
Heininger,320 U. S. 467, Commissioner v. Scottish American Co., 323 U. S. 119.
If we are to isolate as an independently reviewable
question of law the view of the Tax Court that money
consideration must benefit the donor to relieve a transfer
by him from being a gift, we think the Tax Court was
correct. See Commissioner v. Bristol, 121 F. 2d 129.
To be sure, the Revenue Act of 1932 does not spell out a
requirement of benefit to the transferor to afford relief
from the gift tax. Its forerunner, § 320 of the 1924 Act,
43 Stat. 253, 314, was more explicit in that it provided
that the excess of the transfer over "the consideration
received shall . . . be deemed a gift." It will hardly be
suggested, however, that in re-imposing the gift tax in
1932 Congress meant to exclude transfers that would have
been taxed under the 1924 Act. The section taxing as
gifts transfers that are not made for "adequate and
full [money] consideration" aims to reach those transfers
which are withdrawn from the donor's estate. To allow

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

324 U. S.

detriment to the donee to satisfy the requirement of
"adequate and full consideration" would violate the purpose of the statute and open wide the door for evasion of
the gift tax. See 2 Paul, supra, at 1114.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissents, and would affirm the

judgment for the reasons given in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
MERRILL v. FAHS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 126. Argued January 9, 1945.-Decided March 5, 1945.
1. By § 503 of the Revenue Act of 1932, transfers of property are
relieved from the gift tax to the extent that they are made for an
"adequate and full consideration." Held, in the case of a transfer
of property pursuant to an antenuptial agreement, that the relinquishment of marital rights can not to any extent constitute
"adequate and full consideration." P. 312.
2. Provisions of the federal gift and estate tax statutes are to be
construed harmoniously; and, where obvious reasons do not compel
divergent treatment, identical phrases concerning the same subject
matter are to be given identical construction. P. 313.
142 F. 2d 651, affirmed.

323 U. S. 686, to review the reversal of a
judgment of the District Court for the taxpayer, 51 F.
Supp. 120, in a suit for a refund of gift taxes.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. Sam R. Marks and Harry T. Gray, with whom
Mr. FrancisM. Holt was on the brief, for petitioner.
Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Messrs. Sewall Key and I. Henry Kutz were on the brief,
for respondent.

