652

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT, TAX COMMISSIONER OF OHIO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No 38. Argued November 7, 8, 1944.-Decided April 9, 1945.
1. Where, upon review here of state court decisions, the existence
of an asserted federal right or immunity depends upon the appraisal of undisputed facts of record, or where reference to the
facts is necessary to the determination of the precise meaning of
the federal right or immunity, as applied, this Court is free to
reexamine the facts as well as the law in order to determine for
itself whether the asserted right or immunity is to be sustained.
P. 659.
2. Since it appears on consideration of petitioner's course of business
and of the circumstances attending the importation that petitioner
was the inducing and efficient cause of bringing the fibers into the
country, which is importation, petitioner, not the foreign sellers or
the agents, was the importer of fibers brought from the Philippine
Islands and other places outside the United States, and the constitutional immunity from state taxation of the imported fibers survived their delivery to petitioner. Pp. 659, 664.
3. For the purpose of determining whether petitioner was the importer
in the constitutional sense, it is immaterial whether title to the
merchandise vested in the petitioner at the time of shipment or
only after its arrival in this country. P. 662.
4. When merchandise is brought here from another country, the
extent of its immunity from state taxation turns on the essential
nature of the transaction, considered in the light of the constitutional purpose, and not on the formalities with which the importation is conducted or on the technical procedures by which it is
effected. P. 663.
5. The purpose of the constitutional prohibition of state taxes on
imports is to protect the exclusive power of the national government
to tax imports and to prevent what in matter of substance would
amount to the imposition of additional import duties by States
in which the property might be found or stored before its sale or use.
P. 664.
6. The constitutional immunity of the imports from state taxation
was not lost by their storage (in the original packages) in ware-

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

653

Counsel for Parties.

houses at petitioner's factory, pending their use in petitioner's
manufacturing operations for which they were imported. Pp. 664,
668.
7. For the purpose of the constitutional immunity, it is immaterial
whether the imported merchandise is stored (in the original packages) in the importer's warehouse at the port of entry or in an
interior State. P. 664.
8. Upon the record in this case, there is no reason to consider whether,
for purposes of the constitutional immunity, the mere presence of
some fibers in the factory was so essential to current manufacturing
requirements that they could be said to have entered the process
of manufacture, and hence were already put to the use for which
they were imported. P. 667.
9. Such discriminations as there may be against domestic and in
favor of foreign producers of goods in this situation are implicit
in the constitutional provision and in its purpose to protect imports
from state taxation. P. 667.
10. The difficulty of ascertaining in particular cases when an original
package is broken arises out of the original package rule itself.
P. 668.
11. Reconciliation of the competing demands of the constitutional
immunity of imports and of the state's power to tax is an extremely
practical matter. P. 668.
12. In view of the constitutional authority of Congress to consent to
state taxation of imports and hence to lay down its own test for
determining when the immunity ends, there is no convincing practical reason for abandoning the original package rule, or, if it is
to be retained in the case of imports for sale, for rejecting it in
the case of imports for manufacture. P. 668.
13. Articles brought from the Philippine Islands into the United
States are imports subject to the constitutional provisions relating
to imports,-both because they are brought into the United States
and because the place whence they are brought is not a part of the
United States in the constitutional sense to which the provisions
with respect to imports are applicable. Pp. 668, 679.
142 Ohio St. 235, 51 N. E. 2d 723, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 762, to review a judgment sustaining an assessment of state taxes.
Messrs. Luther Day and Curtis C. Williams, Jr., with
whom Mr. Frederick Woodbridge was on the brief, for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Aubrey A. Wendt, Assistant Attorney General of Ohio,
with whom Thomas J. Herbert, Attorney General, was on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, a tax official of the State of Ohio, has
assessed for state ad valorem taxes certain bales of hemp
and other fibers belonging to petitioner. The fibers had
been brought from the Philippine Islands or from other
places outside the United States. When assessed for the
tax, they were stored in the original packages in which
they had been imported, in petitioner's warehouse at its
factory at Xenia, Ohio, preliminary to their use by petitioner in the manufacture of cordage and similar products.
The State Board of Tax Appeals sustained the assessment for the three years in question, 1938, 1939, and 1940.
Petitioner then brought the present proceeding in the
Supreme Court of Ohio to review the Board's determination. That court rejected petitioner's contention that the
fibers are imports, immune from state taxation under
Article I, § 10, Cl. 2, of the Constitution, which prohibits
state taxation of imports or exports; and it sustained the
tax. 142 Ohio St. 235, 51 N. E. 2d 723.
The State Court recognized that Brown v. Maryland,
12 Wheat. 419, established the rule that imports in their
original packages may not be taxed by a state. But it
thought that the present case fell within the qualification upon that rule laid down in Waring v. The Mayor,
8 Wall. 110. The Waring case held that since a purpose
of importation is sale, imports are immune from state
taxation only so long as they are in the hands of the importer, and lose their immunity upon being sold by him.
The Supreme Court of Ohio held that petitioner acquired
title to the merchandise here taxed after its, arrival in
this country. It concluded from this that the foreign

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

sellers or their agents, and not petitioner, were the importers, and that the merchandise, after the sale to petitioner, had ceased to be an import constitutionally immune from state taxation.
In any case, the Ohio court thought that even if petitioner were the importer and the merchandise were immune from taxation on its receipt by petitioner, it nevertheless ceased to be an import, and lost its immunity as
such, upon its storage at petitioner's warehouse, awaiting
its use in manufacturing. The Court thought that Broum
v. Maryland, supra, laid down a rule applicable only to
imports for the purpose of sale, and that imports for use
became, upon storage, even if still in the original package,
so intermingled with the common mass of property within
the state as to be subject to the state power of taxation.1
The Court found it unnecessary to decide whether the
fibers brought from the Philippine Islands, which are not
a foreign country, could be imports within the meaning of
the constitutional immunity, since they would be taxable
in any event upon the two grounds already stated.
We granted certiorari, 321 U. S. 762, because of the novelty and importance of the constitutional questions raised.
The questions for decision are (1) whether, with respect to
the fibers brought from foreign countries, petitioner was
their importer; if so, (2) whether, as stored in petitioner's
warehouse, they continued to be imports at the time of
the tax assessment; and (3) whether the fibers brought
from the Philippine Islands, despite the place of their origin, are likewise imports rendered immune from taxation
by the constitutional provision.
The Constitution confers on Congress the power to lay
and collect import duties, Art. I, §8, and provides that "No
I The Supreme Court of Washington has held contrary to the decision of the Ohio Court. See Washington Chocolate Co. v. King
County, 21 Wash. 2d 630, 152 P, 2d 981,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any
Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may
be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection Laws
." Art. I, § 10, Cl. 2. These provisions were intended
to confer on the national government the exclusive power
to tax importations of goods into the United States. That
the constitutional prohibition necessarily extends to state
taxation of things imported, after their arrival here and so
long as they remain imports, sufficiently appears from the
language of the constitutional provision itself and its exposition by Chief Justice Marshall in Brown v. Maryland,
supra. We do not understand anyone to challenge that
rule in this case.
It is obvious that if the states were left free to tax things
imported after they are introduced into the country and
before they are devoted to the use for which they are imported, the purpose of the constitutional prohibition
would be defeated. The fears of the framers, that importation could be subjected to the burden of unequal local
taxation by the seaboard, at the expense of the interior
states, would be realized, as effectively as though the states
had been authorized to lay import duties. It is evident,
too, that if the tax immunity of imports, commanded by
the Constitution, is to be reconciled with the right of the
states to tax goods after their importation has become
complete and they have become a part of the common mass
of property within a state, "there must be a point of time
when the prohibition ceases, and the power of the state to
tax commences." Brown v. Maryland, supra, 441.
In Brown v. Maryland,supra, the state sought to impose

a license tax on the sale by the importer of goods stored
in his warehouse in the original packages in which they
1 See Madison, Debates in the Federal Convention of 1787, August
28, 1787 (Hunt & Scott ed.).

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

were imported. In holding the levy to be a prohibited tax
on imports, Chief Justice Marshall said (pp. 441-442):
"It is sufficient for the present to say, generally, that when
the importer has so acted upon the thing imported, that it
has become incorporated and mixed up with the mass of
property in the country, it has, perhaps, lost its distinctive
character as an import, and has become subject to the
taxing power of the state; but while remaining the property of the importer, in his warehouse, in the original form
or package in which it was imported, a tax upon it is too
plainly a duty on imports, to escape the prohibition in
the constitution."
Although one Justice dissented in Brown v. Maryland,
supra, from that day to this, this Court has held, without
a dissenting voice, that things imported are imports entitled to the immunity conferred by the Constitution; that
that immunity survives their arrival in this country and
continues until they are sold, removed from the original
package, or put to the use for which they are imported.
Waring v. The Mayor, supra, 122-123; Low v. Austin, 13
Wall. 29, 32-33; Cook v. Pennsylvania,97 U. S. 566, 573;
May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496, 501, 507-508; Burke v.
Wells, 208 U. S. 14, 21-22, 24; Gulf FisheriesCo. v. MacInerney, 276 U. S. 124, 126-127; McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil
Corp., 309 U. S. 414, 423.
All the taxed fibers, with the exception of those brought
from the Philippine Islands, which will presently be separately considered, were brought to this country from
foreign lands and were undoubtedly imports, clothed as
such with a tax immunity which survived their importation, until the happening of some event sufficient to alter
their character as imports. As we have said, the Supreme
Court of Ohio found such events in what it deemed to
be a sale of the merchandise to petitioner after it had
been landed in the United States, and in the further cir-

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

cumstance that by storing the merchandise in the warehouse at petitioner's factory, it had become a part of the
common mass of property subject to state taxation and
so could no longer be regarded as an import.
Resolution of either point in favor of respondent is decisive of the case. Hence we must first consider whether
petitioner, rather than the foreign producers or shippers
acting through their American agents, was the importer.
If so, the tax immunity of the imported merchandise
survived its receipt by petitioner and we must determine
the further question whether petitioner's subsequent
treatment of the merchandise deprived it of its character,
and hence its immunity, as an import.

I
Petitioner's relationship to the merchandise at the time
of importation and afterward is of significance only in
determining whether, as the state court has found, the
relationship was so altered after importation that it can
be said that the purpose of the importation had been fulfilled. If it had, there was no longer either occasion or
reason for the further survival of the immunity from
taxation. That relationship is to be ascertained by reference to all the circumstances attending the importation,
particularly as shown by the long established course of
business by which petitioner's supply of fibers has been
brought into the country for use in manufacturing its
finished product.
The state introduced no evidence, and there is no dispute in point of substance as to petitioner's evidence.
The latter consists of the oral testimony of petitioner's
general manager, some examples of the contracts by which
petitioner procured the merchandise to be brought to
this country, and two stipulations containing statements,
admitted to be true, which were made by the American
agents of the producers and shippers of the merchandise.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

Both the Board of Tax Appeals and the state court,
without specially finding some of the facts which we regard as of controlling significance, contented themselves
with stating the facts generally. They inferred from these
facts that petitioner technically was but a purchaser of
the merchandise, after it had been imported into this
country. They concluded that petitioner was not the
importer, and the fibers had ceased to be imports after
the sale to petitioner.
In all cases coming to us from a state court, we pay
great deference to its determinations of fact. But when
the existence of an asserted federal right or immunity
depends upon the appraisal of undisputed facts of record,
or where reference to the facts is necessary to the determination of the precise meaning of the federal right or
immunity, as applied, we are free to reexamine the facts
as well as the law in order to determine for ourselves
whether the asserted right or immunity is to be sustained.
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Albers Commission Co.,
223 U. S. 573, 591; Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312, 325;
First National Bank v. Hartford, 273 U. S. 548, 552, and
cases cited; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 385-386;
Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 589-590.
In this case it appears without contradiction that petitioner, in the regular course of its business, contracts for
its manufacturing requirements of hemp, jute, sisal and
other fibers, before their shipment to this country, and
sometimes even before they are produced in the various
foreign countries of their origin. Petitioner's negotiations
for the purchase are carried on with brokers located in
New York City, who represent the foreign producers.
After an agreement as to price, petitioner enters into a
firm contract to purchase the fibers. A standard form of
contract is executed in duplicate or triplicate by petitioner and the broker who signs as agent for or "for account of" his named principal. The contract specifies

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the kind and amount of fibers purchased, the time of shipment, the American port to which the shipment is to be
made, and frequently the steamship company, designated
by petitioner, upon whose vessel the merchandise is to
be shipped. While the contract gave the seller the option
to make deliveries from merchandise warehoused in the
United States, no such deliveries were made of any of the
merchandise here in question.
The price is a "landed price," which includes as its components the contract cost of the goods at point of origin,
the normal charges for ocean freight, marine and war risk
insurance and United States customs clearance (including
customs duties in the case of hemp, which alone of the purchased merchandise is subject to import duties), and the
expense of arranging for transshipment from the port of
entry to petitioner at Xenia, Ohio. Any variation from
the normal rates for these components (other than the contract cost of the goods at point of origin) is for account
of petitioner. "Extra value" insurance covering any increase in value of the merchandise over the contract price
during the voyage, is effected, if petitioner requests, at its
expense.
Upon shipment the merchandise is consigned to the
broker in this country or to a banker, either on an order or
a straight bill of lading, in either case with directions to
"Notify The Hooven & Allison Co." When the bales of
purchased merchandise are loaded for shipment on board
vessel at the point of origin, they are given distinctive
markings referable to petitioner's contract. A declaration
is then cabled to the New York broker referring to the
contract upon which the shipment is made, stating the
name of the vessel, the approximate number of bales
shipped, their identification marks, and the approximate
date of arrival in the United States. The broker communicates this information to petitioner and sometimes follows
it before arrival of the shipment at the port of entry, with

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

661

Opinion of the Court.

a pro forma invoice, which states the approximate tonnage
and value of the shipment. Petitioner then gives instructions to the broker for the shipment from the port to
Xenia.
The broker enters the shipment at the custom house in
its own name as an accommodation to the petitioner,
which has no facilities for clearance of the goods through
the customs. The broker then ships the merchandise upon
a straight bill of lading to Xenia, where it is delivered by
the carrier to petitioner. At that time petitioner pays the
freight, and ten to fifteen days after the receipt of the final
invoice, it pays the purchase price to the broker. It is
stipulated that the sale is upon the unsecured credit of
petitioner and it does not appear that there is any retention of a security title either by the foreign seller, the
broker, or any intervening banker, to secure payment by
petitioner of the purchase price.
From all this it is clear that from the beginning, after
the contract of purchase is signed, the foreign producer
is obligated to sell the merchandise on credit, to ship it to
an American port and to deliver it to petitioner, which is
obligated to accept and pay for it. Performance of the
contract calls for, and necessarily results in, importation
of the merchandise from its country of origin to the United
States. Petitioner's contracts of purchase are the inducing
and efficient cause of bringing the merchandise into the
country, which is importation. Examination of the documents and consideration of the course of business can leave
no doubt that the petitioner not only causes the importation but that the purpose and necessary consequence of it
are to supply petitioner with the raw material for its manufacture of cordage at its factory in Ohio.
From the moment of shipment the taxed merchandise
was identified and appropriated to the purchase contract
and to that ultimate purpose, by both the seller and the
buyer. Petitioner could resell the merchandise while it
637582--46-------46

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

was in transit. The risk of loss from change in market
value was on petitioner, save as it might insure against
such loss at its own expense. The right to demand, receive
and use the merchandise, subject only to the payment of
the contract "landed price," was in petitioner. And obviously if the possibility of the seller's right of stoppage in
transitu, the carrier's lien or the necessity of payment of
customs duties are to be regarded as inconsistent with importation, there would be few importations and few importers in the constitutional sense. For there are few
who are not subject to some or all of these contingencies.
Here it is agreed that the sale was on credit. So far as
appears in those instances where the merchandise was consigned to a banker, it was for the purpose of financing the
producer or shipper, pending receipt of the merchandise
and payment for it by petitioner, which appears always
to have purchased on credit and to have received the merchandise before payment, and never to have given security for its payment. There was therefore no occasion
for an implied reservation of a security "title" as against
petitioner in either the sellers or their agents, or the banker
in those cases where the goods were consigned on shipment
to a banker.
For the purpose of determining whether petitioner was
the importer in the constitutional sense, it is immaterial
whether the title to the merchandise imported vested in
him who caused it to be brought to this country at the time
of shipment 'or only after its arrival here.' Decision in
Waring v. The Mayor, supra, upon which the Supreme
Court of Ohio relied, did not turn on technical questions
1 Section 1483 (1) of 19 U. S. C. provides that merchandise imported into the United States "shall be held to be the property of the
person to whom the same is consigned." We do not deem this provision to be significant here, since it is designed merely to identify the
person liable for the payment of customs duties, and since, as we have
said, the time when title passes to petitioner is immaterial to decision.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

663

Opinion of the Court.

of passage of title.' For in determining the meaning and
application of the constitutional provision, we are concerned with matters of substance, not of form. When the
merchandise is brought from another country to this, the
extent of its immunity from state taxation turns on the
essential nature of the transaction, considered in the light
of the constitutional purpose, and not on the formalities
with which the importation is conducted or on the technical procedures by which it is effected. It is common
knowledge to lawyers and businessmen that vast quantities of merchandise are annually imported into this country by purchasers resident here, for sale or manufacture
here. Sometimes the buyer completes the purchase
abroad, in person, and ships to this country; sometimes,
as in this case, the purchase is on unsecured credit, but
more often it is under contracts by which the vendor reserves in himself or his agent or a banker a lien or title
as security for payment of the purchase price on or after
arrival. To say that the purchaser is any the less an
importer in the one case than in the others, is to ignore
4 In the Waring case, the purchaser, claiming tax immunity as the
importer, purchased the merchandise, after its shipment from abroad,
from the American consignee, sometimes before and sometimes after
its arrival in the port of entry. Risk of loss was to be on the seller
until the merchandise was entered at the customhouse and delivered
from the vessel into the purchaser's lighters alongside. The Court
thought it immaterial whether the purchase contract was entered into
before or after arrival. Since the risk of loss remained on the shipper
until the customhouse entry and delivery to the purchaser, it held
that the shipper or the consignee was the importer; that the purchaser's sale of the goods, which was taxed, was the second sale after
importation, and for that reason was not free of tax. In these circumstances it is clear that the purchaser was not the cause of the importation, that the purchaser had no control over or right to demand the
merchandise before arrival in port and that the foreign shipper, who
bore the risk of loss and retained control of the merchandise and the
right to control it until its delivery to petitioner, was the importer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the constitutional purpose and substitute form for
substance.
As we have said, the constitutional purpose is to protect
the exclusive power of the national government to tax imports and to prevent what in matter of substance would
amount to the imposition of additional import duties by
states in which the property might be found or stored
before its sale or use. It is evident that the constitutional
prohibition envisages the present transaction, quite as
much as if the petitioner had sent his own agent abroad
where he had purchased and paid for the merchandise and
shipped it to petitioner in this country. The purpose and
result of the transaction are the same in either case. The
apprehended evils of the local taxation of imports after
their arrival here are the same.
It is enough for present purposes that the merchandise
in this case was imported; and that petitioner was the efficient cause of its importation, the purpose and effect of
which was petitioner's acquisition of the merchandise for
its manufacture into finished goods. We conclude that
petitioner was the importer, and that the merchandise in
its hands was entitled to the constitutional tax immunity,
surviving delivery of the imports to it.
II
We turn now to the question whether the immunity was
lost by the storage of the merchandise in the original packages in petitioner's warehouse at its factory, pending its
use in petitioner's manufacturing operations. For the purpose of the immunity it has not been thought, nor is there
reason for supposing, that it matters whether the imported
merchandise is stored in the original package in the importer's warehouse at the port of entry or in an interior
state. The reason for the original package doctrine, as
fully expounded in Brown v. Maryland, supra, is that un-

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

less the immunity survives to some extent the arrival of
the merchandise in the United States, the immunity itself
would be destroyed. For there is no purpose of taxing importation, itself, even its ultimate suppression, which
could not be equally accomplished by laying a like tax on
things imported after their arrival and while they are in
the hands of the importer.
On the other hand, the immunity is adequately protected and the state power to tax is adequately safeguarded if, as has been the case ever since Brown v. Maryland, supra, an import is deemed to retain its character
as such "while remaining the property of the importer, in
his warehouse, in the original form or package in which it
was imported," see Brown v. Maryland, supra, 442, or until put to the use for which it was imported. Chief Justice Marshall, in Brown v. Maryland, supra,pp. 442-443,
rejected the suggestion that "an importer may bring in
goods, as plate, for his own use, and thus retain much valuable property exempt from taxation." Plainly if and when
removed from the package in which they are imported or
when used for the purpose for which they are imported,
they cease to be imports and their tax exemption is at an
end. It is quite another matter to say, and Chief Justice
Marshall did not say, that because they may be taxed when
used, the importer may not hold them tax free until the
original packages are broken or until they are put to the
use for which they are imported. He said, p. 443: "The
same observations [i. e., the importer has mixed the goods
with the common mass of property, rendering them taxable] apply to plate, or other furniture used by the importer." (Italics added.)
We have often indicated the difference in this respect between the local taxation of imports in the original package and the like taxation of goods, either before or after
their shipment in interstate commerce. In the one case

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the immunity derives from the prohibition upon taxation
of the imported merchandise itself. In the other the immunity is only from such local regulation by taxation, as
interferes with the constitutional power of Congress to
regulate the commerce, whether the taxed merchandise is
in the original package or not. The regulatory effect
of a tax, otherwise permissible, is not in general affected
by retention of the merchandise in the original package in
which it has been transported. Woodruff v. Parham, 8
Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; American
Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 521; Sonneborn
Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506, 508-513; Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, 526-527.
This Court has pointed out on several occasions that
imports for manufacture cease to be such and lose their
constitutional immunity from state taxation when they
are subjected to the manufacture for which they were
imported, May v. New Orleans,supra, 501; Gulf Fisheries
Co. v. MacInerney, supra, 126; McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil
Corp., supra, 423, or when the original packages in which
they were imported are broken, Low v. Austin, supra, 34;
May v. New Orleans, supra, 508-509. But no opinion of
this Court has ever said or intimated that imports held
by the importer in the original package and before they
were subjected to the manufacture for which they were
imported, are liable to state taxation. On the contrary,
Chief Justice Taney, in affirming the doctrine of Brown
v. Maryland, in which he appeared as counsel for the
State, declared, as we now affirm: "Indeed, goods imported, while they remain in the hands of the importer,
in the form and shape in which they were brought into
the country, can in no just sense be regarded as a part
of that mass of property in the state usually taxed for
the support of state government." License Cases, 5 How.
504, 575.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

In Brown v. Maryland, supra, the imported merchandise held in original packages in the importer's warehouse
for sale, was deemed tax immune. We do not perceive
upon what grounds it can be thought that imports for
manufacture lose their character as imports any sooner
or more readily than imports for sale. The constitutional
necessity that the immunity, if it is to be preserved at
all, survive the landing of the merchandise in the United
States and continue until a point is reached, capable of
practical determination, when it can fairly be said that
it has become a part of the mass of taxable property within
a state, is the same in both cases.
It cannot be said that the fibers were subjected to
manufacture when they were placed in petitioner's warehouse in their original packages. And it is unnecessary
to decide whether, for purposes of the constitutional immunity, the presence of some fibers in the factory was so
essential to current manufacturing requirements that
they could be said to have entered the process of manufacture, and hence were already put to the use for which
they were imported, before they were removed from the
original packages. Even though the inventory of raw
material required to be kept on hand to meet the current
operational needs of a manufacturing business could be
thought to have then entered the manufacturing process,
the decision of the Ohio Supreme Court did not rest on
that ground, and the record affords no basis for saying
that any part of petitioner's fibers, stored in its warehouse, were required to meet such immediate current
needs. Hence we have no occasion to consider that
question.
It is said that our decision will result in discrimination
against domestic and in favor of foreign producers of
goods. But such discriminations as there may be are
implicit in the constitutional provision and in its pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

pose to protect imports from state taxation. It is also
suggested that it will be difficult to ascertain in particular
cases when an original package is broken, a difficulty
which arises, not out of the present decision, but out of
the original package rule itself, which we do not understand to be challenged here. Moreover, this supposed
difficulty does not seem to have baffled judicial decision
in any case in the more than a hundred years which have
followed the decision in Brown v. Maryland, supra.
As was emphasized in Brown v. Maryland, supra, the
reconciliation of the competing demands of the constitutional immunity and of the state's power to tax, is an
extremely practical matter. In view of the fact that the
Constitution gives Congress authority to consent to state
taxation of imports and hence to lay down its own test
for determining when the immunity ends, we see no convincing practical reason for abandoning the test which
has been applied for more than a century, or why, if we
are to retain it in the case of imports for sale, we should
reject it in the case of imports for manufacture. Unless
we are to ignore the constitutional prohibition we cannot
say that imports for manufacture are not entitled to the
immunity which the Constitution commands, and we see
no theoretical or practical grounds for saying, more than
in the case of goods imported for sale, that the immunity
ends while they are in the original package and before
they are devoted to the purpose for which they were imported.
III
There remains the question whether the fibers which
petitioner brought from the Philippine Islands and stored
in its warehouse in the original packages are also imports, constitutionally immune from state taxation.
Respondents argue that the Philippine Islands are not
a foreign country and that only articles brought here

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

669

Opinion of the Court.

from foreign countries are imports within the meaning of
the constitutional provision. Goods transported from
one state to another are not imports, since they are articles
originating in the United States and not brought into it.
Woodruff v. Parham,supra; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
supra; Baldwin v. Seelig, supra. It is petitioner's argument that merchandise brought from the Philippines to
the United States is an import because it is brought into
the United States from a place without, even though not
from a foreign country. Implicit in this argument is the
contention that the Philippines, while belonging to the
United States as a sovereign, are not part of it; and that
merchandise brought from the Philippines is an import
because it originates outside of and is brought into the
territory comprising the several states which are united
under and by the Constitution, territory in which the
constitutional prohibition against the state taxation of
imports, is alone applicable.
The Constitution provides us with no definition of the
term "imports" other than such as is implicit in the word
itself. Imports were defined by Chief Justice Marshall
in Brown v. Maryland, supra, 437, as "things imported"
and "articles brought into a country." He added: "If we
appeal to usage for the meaning of the word, we shall receive the same answer. They are the articles themselves
which are brought into the country."
He thus defined imports by reference not to their foreign
origin but to the physical fact that they are articles
brought into the country from some place without it.
Since most imports originate in foreign countries, courts
have not unnaturally fallen into the habit of referring to
imports as things brought into this country from a foreign
country. Waring v. The Mayor, supra; Woodruff v. Parham, supra;Pittsburgh& Southern Coal Co. v. Louisiana,
156 U. S. 590, 600; PatapscoGuano Co. v. North Carolina,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

171 U. S. 345, 350; May v. New Orleans,supra.' But the
Constitution says nothing of the foreign origin of imports,
and in none of these cases was it necessary to decision to
formulate the rule in terms of origin in a foreign country.
In each case the result would have been the same if the
Court had treated imports merely as articles brought into
the country from a point without.
Chief Justice Marshall's definition has received support
in cases holding or suggesting that fish caught in the open
sea and brought into this country are imports entitled
to the constitutional protection, although they did not
come from a foreign country. Gulf FisheriesCo. v. Darrouzet, 17 F. 2d 374, 376; Booth FisheriesCorp. v. Case,
182 Wash. 392, 395, 47 P. 2d 834. In Gulf FisheriesCo. v.
MacInerney, supra, we found it unnecessary to decide the
point. In that case the fish had been subjected to a manufacturing process after their arrival in port and before
they were taxed. Hence, even jf originally imports, they
had ceased to be such and were no longer immune from the
challenged state tax. See also Fishermen's Cooperative
Assn. v. State, 198 Wash. 413, 88 P. 2d 593. The definition
of imports as articles brought into the country finds support also in the circumstance that it has never been seriously doubted that merchandise brought into the United
States from without is subject to the power of Congress to
impose customs duties, even though the merchandise js
not of foreign origin. And the occasion for protecting the
5 In Dooley v. United States, 183 U. S. 151, the Court sustained under
the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 77, the levy and
collection of a tax in Puerto Rico upon goods brought there from
New York. The tax was held to be a valid exercise of the power of
Congress to enact laws for the government of a dependency acquired by
treaty, see Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244. The Court stated also as
an alternative ground, but one unnecessary for decision, that the levy
was not a prohibited tax on exports, since Puerto Rico was not a
foreign country.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

power of the national government to lay and collect customs duties upon such merchandise, is precisely the same
as in the case of that of foreign origin. Hence it is plain
that such importations, although not of foreign origin, are
within the design and purpose of the constitutional prohibition against the local taxation of imports.
We find it impossible to say that merely because merchandise, brought into the country from a place without,
does not come from a foreign country, it is not an import
envisaged by the words and purpose of the constitutional
prohibition. The interpretation in Brown v. Maryland,
supra, the occasional judicial decisions that foreign origin
s not a necessary characteristic of imports so long as they
are brought into the country from a place without it, and
the purpose of the constitutional prohibition, are alike
persuasive that there may be imports in the constitutional
sense which do not have a foreign origin.
The fact that the merchandise here in question did not
come from a foreign country, if the contention be accepted
that the Philippines are not to be regarded as such, is
therefore without significance. It is material only whether
it came from a place without the "country." Hence, in
determining what are imports for constitutional purposes,
we must ascertain the territorial limits of the "country"
into which they are brought. Obviously, if the Philippines
are to be regarded as a part of the United States in this
sense, merchandise brought from the Philippines to the
United States would not be brought into the United States
from a place without, and would not be imports, more than
articles transported from one state to another.
The term "United States" may be used in any one of
several senses. It may be merely the name of a sovereign
occupying the position analogous to that of other sovereigns in the family of nations. It may designate the territory over which the sovereignty of the United States ex-

672

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

tends, or it may be the collective name of the states which
are united by and under the Constitution.
When Brown v. Maryland, supra, was decided, the
United States was without dependencies or territories outside its then territorial boundaries on the North American
continent, and the Court had before it only the question
whether foreign articles brought into the State of Maryland could be subjected to state taxation. It seems plain
that Chief Justice Marshall, in his reference to imports as
articles brought into the country, could have had reference
only to articles brought into a state which is one of the
states united by and under the Constitution, and in which
alone the constitutional prohibition here involved is
applicable.
The relation of the Philippines to the United States,
taken as the collective name of the states which are united
by and under the Constitution, is in many respects different from the status of those areas which, when the Constitution was adopted, were brought under the control of
Congress and which were ultimately organized into states
of the United States. See Balzac v. Porto Rico, 258 U. S.
298, 304-305, and cases cited. Hence we do not stop to
inquire whether articles brought into such territories or
brought from such territories into a state, could have been
regarded as imports, constitutionally immune from state
taxation. We confine the present discussion to the question whether such articles, brought from the Philippines
and introduced into the United States, are imports so
immune.
We have adverted to the fact that the reasons for protecting from interference, by state taxation, the constia See Langdell, "The Status of our New Territories," 12 Harv. L.
Rev. 365, 371; see also Thayer, "Our New Possessions," 12 Harv. L.
Rev. 464; Thayer, "The Insular Tariff Cases in the Supreme Court,"
15 Harv. L. Rev. 164; Littlefield, "The Insular Cases," 15 Harv. L.
Rev. 169, 281.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

tutional power of the national government to collect customs duties, apply equally whether the merchandise
brought into the country is of foreign origin or not. The
Constitution has not made the foreign origin of articles
imported the test of importation, but only their origin in
a place over which the Constitution has not extended its
commands with respect to imports and their taxation.
Hence our question must be decided, not by determining
whether the Philippines are a foreign country, as indeed
they have been held not to be within the meaning of the
general tariff laws of the United States, Fourteen Diamond Rings v. United States, 183 U. S.176; cf. De Lima
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.1; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S.
222, and within the scope of other general laws, Faber v.
United States, 221 U. S. 649; cf. Huus v. New York & P. R.
S. S. Co., 182 U. S.392; Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S.1;
West India Oil Co. v. Domenech, 311 U. S. 20, but by determining whether they have been united governmentally
with the United States by and under the Constitution.
That our dependencies, acquired by cession as the result
of our war with Spain, are territories belonging to, but not
a part of, the Union of states under the Constitution, was
long since established by a series of decisions in this Court
beginning with The Insular Tax Cases in 1901; De Lima
v. Bidwell, supra;Dooley v. UnitedStates, supra, 182 U. S.
222; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.244; Dooley v. United
States, 183 U. S. 151; and see also Public Utility Commissioners v. Ynchausti & Co., 251 U. S. 401, 406-407; Balzac
v. PortoRico, supra. This status has ever since been maintained in the practical construction of the Constitution
by all the agencies of our government in dealing with our
insular possessions. It is no longer doubted that the
United States may acquire territory by conquest or by
treaty, and may govern it through the exercise of the power
of Congress conferred by § 3 of Article IV of the Constitution "to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regu-

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

lations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States." Dooley v. United States, supra,
183 U. S. at 157; Dorr v. UnitedStates, 195 U. S. 138, 149;
Balzac v. Porto Rico, supra, 305; CincinnatiSoap Co. v.
United States, 301 U. S.308, 323.
In exercising this power, Congress is not subject to the
same constitutional limitations, as when it is legislating
for the United States. See Downes v. Bidwell, supra;
Hawaiiv. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197; Dorrv. United States,
supra; Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S. 325, 332;
Ocampo v. United States, 234 U. S.91, 98; Public Utility
Commissionersv. Ynchausti & Co., supra, 406-407; Balzac
v. Porto Rico, supra. And in general the guaranties of
the Constitution, save as they are limitations upon the
exercise of executive and legislative power when exerted
for or over our insular possessions, extend to them only
as Congress, in the exercise of its legislative power over
territory belonging to the United States, has made those
guaranties applicable. See Balzac v. Porto Rico, supra.
The constitutional restrictions on the power of Congress
to deal with articles brought into or sent out of the United
States, do not apply to articles brought into or sent out
of the Philippines. Despite the restrictions of §§ 8 and 9
of Article I of the Constitution, such articles may be taxed
by Congress and without apportionment. Downes v. Bidwell, supra. It follows that articles brought from the
Philippines into the United States are imports in the
sense that they are brought from territory, which is not
a part of the United States, into the territory of the
United States, organized by and under the Constitution,
where alone the import clause of the Constitution is
applicable.
The status of the Philippines as territory belonging to
the United States, but not constitutionally united with
it, has been maintained consistently in all the governmental relations between the Philippines and the United

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

675

Opinion of the Court.

States. Following the conquest of the Philippines, they
were governed for a period under the war power. After
annexation by the Treaty of Paris of December 10, 1898,
military government was succeeded by a form of executive
government. By the Spooner Amendment to the Army
Appropriation Bill of March 2, 1901, c. 803, 31 Stat. 895,
910, it was provided that "all military, civil, and judicial
powers necessary to govern the Philippine Islands ...
shall, until otherwise provided by Congress, be vested in
such person and persons and shall be exercised in such
manner as the President of the United States shall direct,
for the establishment of civil government and for maintaining and protecting the inhabitants of said islands in
the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and religion
.
On July 1, 1902 Congress provided for a complete
system of civil government by the original Philippine
Organic Act, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691. Step by step Congress has conferred greater powers upon the territorial
government, and those of the federal government have
been diminished correspondingly, although Congress retains plenary power over the territorial government until
such time as the Philippines are made independent. This
process culminated in the Act of March 24, 1934, c. 84,
48 Stat. 456, providing for the independence of the islands.
The adoption by the Philippines and approval by the
United States of a constitution for the Commonwealth
of the Philippine Islands, as provided by the Act, have
prepared the way for their complete independence.
The Act of 1934 made special provisions for the relations between the two governments pending the final
withdrawal of sovereignty of the United States from the
Philippines and in particular provided for a limit on the
number and amount of articles produced or manufactured
in the Philippine Islands that might be "exported" to
the United States free of duty. § 6. It provided for the
complete withdrawal and surrender of all right of posses-

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

sion, supervision, jurisdiction, control or sovereignty of
the United States over the Philippines on the 4th of July
following the expiration of ten years from the date of the
inauguration of the new government, organized under the
Constitution provided for by the Independence Act.'
§ 10 (a). The new Philippine Constitution was adopted
on February 8, 1935, and the new government under it was
inaugurated on November 14, 1935. By the provisions of
the Independence Act, the United States retained certain
powers with respect to our trade relations with the Islands,
with respect to their financial operations and currency,
and the control of their foreign relations. The power of
review by this Court of Philippine cases is continued and
extended to all cases involving the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of the Philippine Islands. § 7 (6). Thus
by the organization of the new Philippine government
under the constitution of 1935, the Islands have been
given, in many aspects, the status of an independent government, which has been reflected in its relations as such
with the outside world.'
7 Since the war with Japan and that country's temporary occupation of the Philippines, Congress has provided that the date of the
independence of the Philippines may be advanced by the President
of the United States, upon his proclamation of their liberation and
the restoration of the normal functions of government. Act of June
29, 1944, c. 322, 58 Stat. 625.
8
The Philippine Commonwealth participated as a signatory in the
following: Agreement and Protocol Regarding Production and Marketing of Sugar of May 6, 1937; Universal Postal Convention of May
23, 1939; Declaration by United Nations of January 1, 1942 (the
Philippines signed the Declaration on June 14, 1942); Agreement
for United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration of
November 9, 1943; United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, of July 1 to 22, 1944;
The Protocol Prolonging the International Agreement Regarding the
Regulation of Production and Marketing of Sugar of August 31,
1944; The International Civil Aviation Conference of November 1
to December 7, 1944.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

Opinion of the Court.

In the meantime, and ever since The Insular Tax Cases,
supra, Congress has often treated as imports, articles
brought to the United States from the Philippines. By
the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 416, 39 Stat. 548, 48 U. S. C.
§ 1042, the territorial government of the Philippines was
authorized to enact tariff laws. The Sugar Quota Law,
7 U. S. C. § 608a (1), defined as imports the amounts of
sugar permitted to be brought into the United States from
the Philippines, and prohibited such importation in excess of prescribed quotas. The Act of June 14, 1935, c. 240,
49 Stat. 340, 48 U. S. C. § 1236a, provided for restriction
of the amount of hard fibers and its products which could
be brought annually from the Philippines to the United
States. See also 48 U. S. C. § 1236. And the Independence
Act, supra, 48 U. S. C. § 1236 (a) (b), also regulated the
amount of "export tax" which might be levied by the
Philippines on articles shipped to the United States from
the Philippine Islands.'
The Independence Act, while it did not render the
Philippines foreign territory, CincinnatiSoap Co. v. United
States, supra, 318-320, treats the Philippines as a foreign
country for certain purposes. In 48 U. S. C. § 1238 (a) (1),
it established immigration quotas for Filipinos coming
to the United States, as if the Philippines were a separate
country, and in that connection extended to Filipinos the
immigration laws relating to the exclusion or expulsion of
aliens. It also provided, 48 U. S. C. § 1238 (a) (2), that
citizens of the Philippine Islands who are not citizens of
the United States shall be considered as if they were aliens.
For purposes of 8 U. S. C. §§ 154 and 156, relating to deportation, the Philippine Islands are declared to be a
foreign country. 48 U. S. C. § 1238 (a) (4). Foreign
9 This Court has referred to goods brought here from the Philippines
as "imports." See Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United States, 301 U. S.
308, 320.
637582--46----.47

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

service officers of the United States may be assigned to
the Philippines, and are to be considered as stationed in
a foreign country. 48 U. S. C. § 1238a. And the Independence Act, § 6, 48 Stat. 456, 460, provides that "when
used in this section in a geographical sense, the term
'United States' includes all Territories and possessions of
the United States, except the Philippine Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the island of Guam."
As we have said, the Philippines have frequently dealt
with other countries as a sovereignty distinct from the
United States.
The United States acquired the Philippines by cession
without obligation to admit them to statehood or incorporate them in the Union of states or to make them a part
of the United States, as distinguished from merely belonging to it. As we have seen, they are not a part of the
United States in the sense that they are subject to and enjoy the benefits or protection of the Constitution, as do the
states which are united by and under it. In particular,
the constitutional provisions governing imports and exports and their taxation, do not extend to articles brought
into or out of the Philippines. The several acts of Congress providing for the government of the Philippines have
not altered their status in these respects, and Congressional legislation governing trade relations of the United
States with the Philippines has not only been consistent
with that status, but has often treated articles brought
from the Philippines to the United States as imports. Our
tariff laws in their practical operation have in general
placed merchandise brought from the Philippines into the
United States in the same relationship to the constitutional taxing power of the national government and the
states as articles brought here from foreign countries.
The national concern in protecting national commercial
relations, by exempting imports from state taxation,
would seem not to be essentially different or less in the

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

REED,

679

J., dissenting in part.

case of merchandise brought from the Philippines, which
are not included in the territory organized under the Constitution, but for which we have assumed a national responsibility, than in the case of articles originating on the
high seas or in foreign countries. As we have said, the reasons for protecting from state taxation articles thus
brought into the territorial United States are the same in
either case. The advantages and disadvantages, if any,
which result from the tax immunity, are inherent in the
import clause. But those advantages and disadvantages
in the case of the Philippines are no more beyond the reach
of Congress than in the case of other imports. Congress
is left free by the terms of the import clause to remove
the prohibition of state taxation of imports and with it
the advantages or disadvantages, whatever they may be,
arising from the tax immunity. Congress, through the
commerce clause, possesses the same power of control of
state taxation of all merchandise moving in interstate or
foreign commerce. And Congress is free, as in the case of
other imports, to regulate the flow of merchandise from
the Philippines into the United States by the imposition
of either customs duties or internal revenue taxes.
We conclude that practical as well as theoretical considerations and the structure of our constitutional system require us to hold that articles brought from the Philippines
into the United States are imports, subject to the constitutional provisions relating to imports both because, as
was said in Brown v. Maryland, they are brought into the
United States, and because the place from whence they
are brought is not a part of the United States in the constitutional sense to which the provisions with respect to
imports are applicable.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE REED,

dissenting in part.

My disagreement with the Court is confined to that portion of the opinion which determines that the Philippine

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting in part.

324 U. S.

Islands is not a part of this "country" as that word is
defined in the opinion.
The practical effect of the decision is to place the products of those territories and possessions which have not
been incorporated into our "country" as integral parts
thereof-Puerto Rico, the Philippines, Guam, Canal Zone,
and perhaps other territories or possessions-at a considerable advantage over the competing products of states of
the continental United States. It enables importers,
whether for manufacture or sale, from these possessions to
keep on hand, tax free, quantities of non-taxable original
packages of imported goods, such as clothing, embroideries, liquors, tobacco, sugars, vegetable oils and fibres.
Freedom from taxation has today become an appreciable
advantage. Furthermore this freedom from state taxation
is gained through an interpretation of Constitutional
power and therefore is beyond the reach of equalization
by the states alone in all circumstances and by the Congress except by complex tariff legislation which would
only reach warehoused imports from dependencies. The
Congressional relief to producers of the several states of
the Union, therefore, is an awkward approach, which will
create irritation with the importing territories by reason
of countervailing tariff increases.
These are only practical disadvantages of today's decision which should not override a Constitutional requirement; but as it does not seem to me the Constitution
clearly calls for this sacrifice of markets by producers in
the states, I would not construe the Constitution to put
the Philippines entirely beyond the pale of the American
economic union. I do not see the necessity for such a
ruling and, in fact, I think the Constitution calls for precisely the opposite conclusion for the following reasons.
(1) In the consideration of the taxability by Ohio of
shipments from the Philippines- which have completed

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

REED,

681

J., dissenting in part.

their journey from the Philippines but remain intact in
their original packages, the significant Constitutional provision is Article I, § 10, Clause 2, which reads as follows:
"No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress,
lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be
for the Use of the Treasury of the United States; and all
such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Controul
of the Congress."
The Constitution contains no definition of the word
"imports" and nothing appears in its history or in the
decisions of this Court which indicates that the word was
used otherwise in this section than in its normal meaning
of a thing brought into the limits of the nation which possesses power over the external commerce which may flow
into a state or states which are subject to the prohibition of
the quoted Constitutional provision. Normally these imports are from foreign countries and hence there are many
references to imports in legislation and decisions which
indicate that the source of imports is foreign countries.1
Lands are either within the sovereign power of the
United States or are outside and beyond that power.
When conquest ripens into cession, lands lose their for1 Products

of the sea brought in as imports are a minor variation.
Tariff Act of 1930, 46 Stat. 590, provides that dutiable articles are
those "imported from any foreign country." The Philippines is not
a foreign country under a tariff act which prohibits importation from
a foreign country of goods made by convict labor. 28 Op. Atty. Gen.
422. The Philippines is not foreign country under the tariff laws.
De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 197; Fourteen Diamond Rings v.
United States, 183 U. S. 176; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222,
234; Dooley v. United States, 183 U. S. 151; American Steel & Wire
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 520.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting in part.

324 U. S.

eign character and become a part of the territories of the
victor.2 The United States has been content to leave its
possessions with a large measure of self-government. To
the Philippines it has promised full independence but the
time for fulfillment of that promise has not arrived. Until
that date, the United States has responsibilities toward the
Philippines and has exercised power unilaterally to make
further concessions to the Islands.' Until complete independence is reached, the citizens of the Philippines owe
allegiance to the United States and every Philippine official recognizes this duty. 48 Stat. 456. The interrelation
between the United States and the Philippines is for both
a basis for amicable relations after complete dissolution
of the existing ties.'
(2) This Court, however, determines that an import
under Article I, § 10, Clause 2, is a commodity brought
into this "country" and that the Philippines is not a part
of this "country" within the meaning which the Court
attributes to that word. The Court is of the view that'
this "country" includes only those sections of the lands
under our jurisdiction which have been so incorporated
into our system by act of Congress as to be entitled to
government under all provisions of the Constitution
rather than by Clause 2, § 3, Article IV, regarding "Territory ... belonging to the United States." Downes v.
2American Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542; Fleming v.
Page, 9 How. 603, 614; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, 223.
8 Philippine Independence Act of March 24, 1934, 48 Stat. 456;
amending the Philippine Independence Act as to trade and financial
relations and rights of Philippine citizens in the United States and
all places subject to its jurisdiction, act of August 7, 1939, 53 Stat.
1226; suspending the export tax on Philippine products, act of December 22, 1941, 55 Stat. 852; Filipino Rehabilitation Commission Act of
June 29, 1944, 58 Stat. 626.
' Address of President Sergio Osmena on the occasion of the Reestablishment of the Commonwealth Government in Manila, February 27, 1945.

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

REED,

J., dissenting in part.

Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244. As a basis for this distinction,
the Court depends upon a statement in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. at 437, that a "duty on imports is a custom or a tax levied on articles brought into a country."
The Court must make this argument to support its position as of course the Philippines is not a foreign country.
CincinnatiSoap Co. v. United States, 301 U. S. 308, 319.
There are a number of reasons why I think that this
reliance on this language of Brown v. Maryland leaves the
opinion without support in its conclusion that shipments
from the Philippines are imports. In the first place, in
Brown v. Maryland, there was no occasion to distinguish
between articles brought into the country and articles
brought from foreign places. The words used are descriptive of commerce from foreign lands. Secondly,
Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123, interprets the meaning
of "brought into the country" as used in Brown v. Maryland as follows, pp. 131-32:
"In the case of Brown v. Maryland, the word imports,
as used in the clause now under consideration, is defined,
both on the authority of the lexicons and of usage, to be
articles brought into the country; and impost is there said
to be a duty, custom, or tax levied on articles brought into
the country. In the ordinary use of these terms at this
day, no one would, for a moment, think of them as having
relation to any other articles than those brought from a
country foreign to the United States, and at the time the
case of Brown v. Maryland was decided-namely, in
1827-it is reasonable to suppose that the general usage
was the same, and that in defining imports as articles
brought into the country, the Chief Justice used the word
country as a synonyme for United States."
See also American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S.
500, 520. Thirdly, the writer of the opinion in Brown v.
Maryland referred, p. 439, to the purpose of the prohibition against state taxation of imports as a thing de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting in part.

324 U. S.

sirable "to preserve . . . our commercial connexions with
foreign nations." The dissent referred repeatedly to foreign merchandise as did counsel in their argument.
Fourthly, the suggestion that the Court's view is supported by the decisions that sea products are imports
seems to me unfounded. Deep-sea products come from
waters beyond the national sovereignty or jurisdiction and
hence are imports under any definition. American fisheries even may require, unless American bottoms are
American territory, legislation to relieve their catch of
general tariff charges. Procter & Gamble Mfg. Co. v.
United States, 19 C. C. P. A. (Customs) 415. The required conclusion, it seems to me, is that an import is
an article brought from beyond the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the United States. De Lima v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 1, 180.
(3) Land within the jurisdiction of the United States
cannot export to the United States under § 10, Article I,
any more than one state can export to or import from
another state. 192 U. S. at 520. When the Insular Cases
determined that articles from the lands Spain ceded to us
were subject to tariff duties at the will of Congress, the
decisions were based on the power of Congress to impose
duties unequally, i e., without uniformity, despite Article
I, § 8, Clause 1, of the Constitution,5 on commodities
from lands under our flag because these lands had not
been incorporated by act of Congress into the Union as
an integral part of the United States. Downes v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 244, 298 et seq.; Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S.
138, 149; Balzac v. Porto Rico, 258 U. S. 298, 305. The
question as to the meaning of imports or imported was
5Article I, § 8, Clause 1: "The Congress shall have Power To lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the
United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States; . . Y"

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

REED,

J., dissenting in part.

not discussed. Whether or not the articles were imports,
so long as the lands of their origin were not an integral
part of the United States, the Congress could put such
duties as it chose on the products. It does not follow that
because the Philippines is not an integral part of the
United States its shipments are imports under Article I,
§ 10, unless the view of the Court's opinion of today is
adopted that an import is an article brought into the
United States as that country is defined in the Court's
opinion. The argument advanced by the Court to sustain
its declaration that the articles brought from the Philippines are imports would have made shipments from the
Louisiana Purchase, Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244,
322-33; Florida, id. pp. 333-34, and Hawaii, Hawaii v.
Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 219, also imports until these territories were incorporated into the United States. History
refutes such a position.
We are thus left to define the word import as used in
§ 10, Article I, in its normal sense to accomplish the purpose of the section. It may have had several purposes.
Brown v. Maryland, supra, at p. 439. Whether it was to
grant the Union a source of revenue, to preserve harmony
among its members or to avoid state tariffs which would
affect relations with foreign governments, the purpose is
not advanced by molding Philippine shipments into imports in the Constitutional sense. Revenue may be exacted by the federal government from Philippine products
brought into the states and a state cannot collect a duty
from such articles if they are not imports. Downes v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244; Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123,
133; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 526. No light can come
from the history of the adoption of the section. The idea
of an American possession was not in being. But since'
the Founding Fathers were creating a commercial as well
as a political entity, it seems more consonant with their
purpose to define imports under the section as things

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

brought into the territory under the jurisdiction or sovereignty of the American government.
(4) Such a conclusion probably meant little to the Philippines. Congress has provided for their early independence. But the principle established by this decision will
persist for the other lands which became American by the
Treaty of Paris. The Court's opinion disclaims determination of any rights beyond the Philippines but the basis
upon which the decision rests supports similar rights for
all lands covered by the Treaty of Paris. Similar articles
covered all the ceded lands.' Puerto Rico is in the same
status as the Philippines. Balzac v. Porto Rico, 258 U. S.
298, 305. Today's decision thus assumes a continuing
importance which justifies setting out my reasons for
dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 442, Marshall,
C. J., pointedly rejected the argument that the rule announced in that case would permit an importer "to bring
in goods . . . for his own use, and thus retain much valuable property exempt from taxation."' Today, this Court,
1Treaty of Paris, December 10, 1898, 30 Stat. 1754:
"Article II. Spain cedes to the United States the island of Porto
Rico and other islands now under Spanish sovereignty in the West In-

dies, and the island of Guam in the Marianas or Ladrones.
"Article III. Spain cedes to the United States the archipelago known
as the Philippine Islands, and comprehending the islands lying within
the following line: . . ."

'Counsel for Maryland had argued that to permit state tax immunity in that case would result in granting immunity to "an importer
who may bring in goods, as plate, for his own use, and thus retain much
valuable property exempt from taxation." In reply to this argument,
Marshall rejected the assumption that the principles then announced
would grant state tax exemptions to imports that had reached their
ultimate destination and were being used or held for use by the importer. "The tax," he said, "finds the article already incorporated with
the mass of property by the act of the importer. He has used the

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

in holding that an Ohio manufacturer may escape payment of a non-discriminatory state ad valorem tax on
goods imported from abroad and held for use in its factory,
interprets Marshall's opinion in a manner which squarely
conflicts with his own interpretation of the rule he announced.
It has, from the very beginning, been recognized that
t * . . there must be a point of time when the prohibition [to tax] ceases, and the power of the state to tax
commences"; although the task of drawing this line is so
difficult that no general rule "universal in its application"
can be stated, yet that line nevertheless ".

.

. exists, and

must be marked as the cases arise." Brown v. Maryland,
supra, 441. The Court did there draw an arbitrary line
of demarcation marking the boundary of a state's power
to tax property "imported for sale." It held that, as to
property imported for sale, "while remaining the property
of the importer, in his warehouse, in the original form or
package in which it was imported, a tax upon it is too
plainly a duty on imports to escape the prohibition in the
Constitution." Brown v. Maryland, supra, at 442. The
right to sell, it was there said, was an element of the right
to import, and thus a state tax imposed before, or as a condition upon, the sale, would substantially impair the right
of sale granted by the government to importers. The
Court reinforced its conclusion by referring to its belief
that a state tax on the importer would increase the cost to
the ultimate domestic purchasers, and that the effect of this
would be to enable the great seaport states indirectly to
levy tribute upon consumers of imported articles living
in the nonseaport states, a practice which the constitutional clause here invoked was intended to prevent.!
privilege [i. e., of sale] he had purchased, and has himself mixed them
up with the common mass, and the law may treat them as it finds
them. The same observations apply to plate, or other furniture used
by the importer." p. 443.
2 To the same effect, see Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 134-136.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

While the rule announced in Brown v. Maryland has at
times been severely criticized, see e. g. License Cases, 5
How. 504, opinion of Mr. Justice Daniel, 615-617, and
has in some cases been narrowly restricted in its application,' it has been, and still is, the general rule of decision
in this Court, as regards imports for sale from foreign
countries. But neither the rule nor the reasoning in
Brown v. Maryland,nor any of the cases which followed it,
support the Court's holding that one who imports an
article for his own use or consumption can enjoy the full
benefits of ownership, and simultaneously claim an immunity from state taxation on the ground that it is still
an import. The Court, in Brown v. Maryland, was in
reality treating goods in the hands of an importer for sale,
as though they were still in transit until the first sale had
been made. This was in accord with the interpretation of
the rule by Chief Justice Taney in the License Cases,
supra, 575. He there said that while imported articles
"are in the hands of the importer for sale . . . they may
be regarded as merely in transitu,and on their way to the
distant cities, villages and country for which they are
destined, and where they are expected to be used and
consumed, and for the supply of which they were in truth
imported."
But the fibers here were not in transitu in any possible
sense of the phrase. Every conceivable relationship they
had once borne to the process of importation had ended.
They were at rest in the petitioner's factory along with its
other raw materials, having arrived at the point where
they were "to be used and consumed" in current produc8See e. g. May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496; Burke v. Wells, 208U. S. 14; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506; Gulf Fisheries Co.
v. MacInerney, 276 U. S.124; Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, 526.
See also Mexican Petroleum Corp. v. South Portland, 121 Maine i28,'
115 A. 900, 26 A. L. R. 965, 971-980; Tres Ritos Ranch Co. v: Abbott,"
44 N; Mex. 556, 105 P. 2d 1070.

:- *

.....

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

tion, and kept as a "backlog" to assure constant operation
of the plant.
Brown v. Maryland and the cases which followed it
stand for the rule that one who pays import duties on
goods intended for sale thereby purchases the right to sell
the goods, free from state taxation so long as the goods are
held in the original package. Until today, none of this
Court's decisions have ever held or even intimated that one
who imports goods for his own use purchases from the
federal government, by payment of import duties, a right
to hold them free from liability for state taxes, after they
have reached the end of their import journey and are
being held for use in the importer's factory. Neither the
"purchase-of-a-right-to-sell" argument nor any of the
other reasons deemed relevant to support the "import-forsale-original-package" doctrine call for its extension to
goods imported for use.
It is clear under the doctrine of Brown v. Maryland,that
after sale by an importer, imported goods are subject to
state taxation. The opinion of the Court today, holding
that goods held for use are immune from state taxation,
results in this rather odd situation: One who imports
goods himself and holds them for his own use in his factory is not liable to state taxes on such goods; but if he
bought the goods from one engaged in the business of
importing, he would be liable to taxation on the same
goods. The artificiality of this tax distinction suggests
grave reasons to question the soundness of the Court's interpretation of the rule. Furthermore, implicit in Marshall's opinion is a recognition of the importance of protecting goods imported for sale from discrimination in the
form of taxes. The net effect of today's opinion is to
accomplish just such discrimination, in favor of goods
imported for use, and against goods imported for sale.
Again, state taxation of previously imported goods held
for use in manufacturing does not afford the great seaport

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

states an opportunity to tax imports to the detriment of
other states. This was one of the apprehended evils which
the "import for sale" rule in Brown v. Maryland was
fashioned to prevent. The most fertile imagination would
be hard put to prove that it would injure or threaten any
other state for Ohio to collect its non-discriminatory ad
valorem tax on fibers held for use in that state. Certainly
the Court advances no persuasive argument in this respect.
On the contrary, it does appear that Ohio, as well as other
states, will be injured by a constitutional interpretation
which denies Ohio the right to collect the tax. Ohio is
injured by the Court's new rule because it cannot apportion its tax fairly upon all who carry on business under the
protection of Ohio's laws.
The rule announced by the Court also discriminates
against other states. Their products held for use are subject to state taxation. Products from abroad are not.
Wines offer an illustration. Wines, stocked in one's private cellar, produced from California or New York grapes,
and held for future use in the original package or otherwise, are subject to state taxation. Today's rule renders
a state wholly powerless to tax wines imported from
abroad and held for future use side by side with taxable
wines made in the United States. Thus, through constitutional interpretation, all foreign products are granted
a tax subsidy at the expense of the individual states affected. If I thought the Constitution required such tax
discriminations against American products, I should agree
to the Court's opinion. The whole history of events leading up to the Constitution, and this Court's opinions in
construing it, persuade me that no such consequence was
ever contemplated by those who wrote or approved our
Constitution.
A final word as to today's new constitutional doctrine.
Precisely how it is to be applied the Court does not tell

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

MURPHY, J.,

concurring in part.

us. From one part of the Court's opinion it appears that
the state can never tax these fibers at all, since it seems
to be said the state can never tax until they "are subjected to the manufacture for which they were imported."
Another part of the opinion indicates they can be taxed
when the original package is broken. Previous opinions
of this Court have indicated the difficulties and defects of
an original package doctrine.4 Are these fibers to be
taxed when the "reed" which covers them is removed,
or must the state wait until it can prove one of the steel
bands has been broken? Other questions suggest themselves in regard to wine imported for use and stored in
one's private cellar for individual consumption. When,
if at all, can a state tax it? Is it when the wine reaches
the cellar or must the state withhold its taxing hand
until the wine is "subjected to the [consumption] for
which it was imported"? Or can the state tax each crate
when the owner, or someone for him, removes the crate's
top with a crowbar? If the wine is imported in large
casks, does it become taxable when the stopper is removed
from the bunghole or only when a part or all of it has
been consumed? The states are entitled to have a definite
answer to these practical questions.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, and MR.
join in this opinion. MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS is of the view that, accepting the Court's ruling
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

that these products are "imports," the rule should be applied without discrimination against the Philippines.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring in part.

With MR. JUSTICE BLACK'S view that whatever constitutional tax immunity the merchandise in question may
have had was lost by virtue of its storage in petitioner's
' Note 3, supra.

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J.,

concurring in part.

324 U. S.

warehouse pending its use in petitioner's manufacturing
operations I agree. But the Court holds otherwise on that
issue. We therefore are met with the further issue as to
whether the fact that the merchandise was shipped from
the Philippine Islands to the United States made the
merchandise an import within the meaning of Article I,
§ 10, Clause 2 of the Constitution and therefore immune
from state taxation. As to that problem I am convinced

that the affirmative answer given by the

CHIEF JUSTICE

is the correct one and I concur in that portion of his
opinion.
That affirmative answer, in my estimation, is compelled
in good measure by practical considerations. The moral
and legal obligations owed the Philippine Islands by the
United States are, so far as I am aware, matchless and
unique. The United States is committed to a policy of
granting complete independence to the Philippines. It
has already granted their people and their officials a large
measure of autonomy. But until the sovereignty of the
United States is finally withdrawn, the United States retains plenary and unrestricted powers over them and is
responsible for their welfare.
We have as a nation exhibited an ideal and a selfless
concern for the well-being of the Philippine people, a concern that has been deepened by the devastation that war
has brought to their land. Since the Islands were ceded
to us, we have at once fostered their economic development through preferential trade agreements and encouraged their desires for freedom and independence. Their
industries and their agriculture have gradually been adjusted in contemplation of their eventual sovereign independence. But war has stricken their land and their
peoples. Their growing economy has been largely decimated by over three years of ruthless invasion and occupation. Filipinos in countless numbers have yielded up

HOOVEN & ALLISON CO. v. EVATT.
652

MURPHY,

69

J., concurring inpart.

not only their property but their lives and their liberties.
Their economic and social structure has fallen about them
in ruins.
Now, with the Islands liberated, our moral and legal
obligations are greater than ever before. Our responsibility for providing urgent relief and rehabilitation has
been readily assumed. But the more complex and difficult
duty of helping to reconstruct the Philippine economic
structure remains to be fulfilled. It is clear that the
Philippines cannot safely be thrown into the world market and left to shift for themselves. For the foreseeable
future, at least, their economy must be closely linked to
that of the United States, without either country abandoning or retreating from the common ideal of independence for the Philippines.
Accordingly it is my view that if it is reasonably possible
to do so we should avoid a construction of the term
"imports," as used in Article I, § 10, Clause 2 of the Constitution, that would place Philippine products at a disadvantage on the American market to the advantage of
products from other countries or that might be a means of
impeding the economic rehabilitation of the Philippines.
If we can justifiably construe that term to prohibit state
taxation on shipments from the Philippines we shall to
that extent have conformed to the national policy of aiding
the Philippine reconstruction. Any taxation or tariff on
Philippine shipments that may be felt to be necessary from
the standpoint of the United States would then become a
matter solely for Congress, which could properly balance
any conflicting interests of the two nations.
Such a construction, in my estimation, is entirely fair
and reasonable. There are, to be sure, statements by this
Court to the effect that the term "imports" refers only to
those goods brought in from a country foreign to the
United States. Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 136;
637582°-46-

8

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MuPHY, J., concurring in part.

324 U. S.

Dooley v. United States, 183 U. S. 151, 154. But such
statements, as pointed out by the Court today, were unnecessary to the decision of the issues there involved and
cannot control the problem presented here. It has also
been held that the Philippine Islands are not a foreign
country within the meaning of tariff laws specifically referring to any "foreign country." Fourteen Diamond
Rings v. UnitedStates, 183 U. S. 176; De Lima v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 1. The inapplicability of these cases is obvious.
It further appears that Congress has usually avoided
the use of the term "imports" in the enactment of legislation affecting trade with the Philippines and other dependencies and that the term has been regarded by certain
government agencies as inapplicable to articles coming
from the Philippines. But such usage clearly cannot affect
our interpretation of a constitutional provision.
As appears more fully in the Court's opinion, there is
thus no controlling authority requiring us to hold that
shipments from the Philippines are not imports within the
meaning of Article I, § 10, Clause 2 of the Constitution.
Under such circumstances the interpretation of this constitutional provision adopted by the CHIEF JUsTicE is a
permissible one. And, in view of what I conceive to be the
practical considerations, it is a highly necessary and desirable one. Only under that interpretation can this part
of the Constitution be consistent with our duties s trustee
for the Philippines.

