548

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

quently has no retroactive effect on the liability of these
taxpayers and the conclusion of the Court of Appeals
that it is unconstitutional is not warranted. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the
Tax Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of opinion the judgment should

be affirmed for the reasons stated by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 143 F. 2d 162.

MARKET STREET RAILWAY CO. v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 510 and 511. Argued February 26, 1945.-Decided March 26,
1945.
1. For the purpose of appeal to this Court, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of California here involved became final upon that
court's denial of a petition for rehearing; and an appeal was not premature though taken before expiration of the 30-day period in which,
under the state law and practice, the state court could have modified
the judgment. P. 551.
2. An order of the state commission requiring the appellant street railway company to reduce its base cash fare from seven to six cents,
held, under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution,
not a deprivation of property without due process of law. Pp.
553, 569.
(a) There is no foundation in the record for the company's contention that in the proceedings before the Commission it was given
no adequate notice that its rates were under attack and therefore
no opportunity for a hearing on the reasonableness of its rates.
P. 558.
'(b) The order was not unsupported by evidence and was not
rendered invalid by the fact that the Commission evaluated the company's experience for itself without the aid of expert testimony.
P. 559.
(c) The order was not invalid as based on matters outside the
record. The Commission's incidental reference to the company's

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.

549

Opinion of the Court.

548

own reports, although they were not formally in evidence in the
proceeding, did not deny due process, in the absence of any showing
of error or prejudice. P. 561.
(d) As the rate prescribed by the Commission is not here found
to be confiscatory, it is unnecessary to determine whether "value of
service" would justify a rate which does not yield a fair return. To
the extent that the Commission was influenced by considerations of
the value of the service in this case, there was no denial to the company of any constitutional right. P. 562.
(e) In view of the company's economic plight, the order was not
invalid even though under the prescribed rate the company would
operate at a loss. That the Commission used as a rate base the price
at which the company had offered to sell its properties to the municipality, and disregarded theoretical reproduction costs, did not
vitiate the order. P. 564.
The due process clause does not insure values nor require restoration of values that have been lost by the operation of economic
forces.
(f) That the test of experience which the order contemplated was
unavailable can not affect its constitutional validity, where the company itself, by litigation and subsequent sale of the property, had
frustrated such test. P. 568.
24 Cal. 2d 378, 150 P. 2d 196, affirmed.
APPEALS

from a judgment affirming an order of the state

commission which directed the railway to reduce its fares
from seven to six cents. Because of uncertainty as to
whether the first appeal was premature, a second appeal
was taken; the second appeal is here dismissed and the

first heard on the merits.
Mr. Francis R.

Kirkham, with whom Messrs. Cyril

Appel and Felix T. Smith were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Everett C. McKeage, with whom Mr. Wyman C.

Knapp was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Two appeals have been taken from a single judgment

of the Supreme Court of California because counsel was
637582 °--46

39

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

uncertain when the judgment became final for our jurisdictional purposes. The decision was rendered July 1,
1944; it concluded, "The order is affirmed"; a petition for
rehearing was denied July 27, 1944. The first appeal was
applied for and allowed on July 31,1944. If the judgment
became final on denial of rehearing, this appeal was
timely. However, the California Rules on Appeal expressly provide that a decision of the Supreme Court "becomes final thirty days after filing unless otherwise
ordered prior to the expiration of said 30-day period."' 1
Remittitur does not issue until the end of the 30-day
period.! It issued on August 1 and certified, according to
practice, that "the foregoing is a true copy of an original
judgment entered in the above entitled cause on the 1st
day of July, 1944; and now remaining of record in my
1Rule 24 (a) provides: "[When decisions become final]

All de-

cisions of the reviewing courts shall be filed with the clerk. A decision
of the Supreme Court becomes final 30 days after filing unless otherwise ordered prior to the expiration of said 30-day period. Pursuant
to article VI, section 4c, of the Constitution, a decision of a District
Court of Appeal becomes final as to that court, 30 days in civil cases
and 15 days in criminal cases after filing, and thereafter is not subject
to modification or rehearing by said court. Where an opinion is
modified without change in the judgment, during the time allowed
for rehearing, such modification shall not postpone the'time that the
decision becomes final as above provided; but if the judgment is
modified during that time, the period specified herein begins to run
anew, as of the date of modification." Rules on Appeal for the
Supreme Court and District Courts of Appeal of the State of California, effective July 1, 1943. See 22 Cal. 2d 1.
2 Rule 25 so provides.
"A remittitur shall issue after the final determination of any appeal, or of any original proceeding in review in
which an alternative writ or order to show cause has been issued. Unless otherwise ordered, the clerk of the Supreme Court shall issue the
remittitur when a judgment of that court becomes final . . ." Rule
25 (a). "For good cause shown, or on stipulation of the parties, the
Supreme Court may direct the immediate issuance of a remittitur."
Rule 25 (b). For discussion of this rule see Witkin, New California
Rules on Appeal (1944) 17 So. Calif. L. Rev. 248 et seq.

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

551

Opinion of the Court.

office." If the date of its issue, being also the date of
finality fixed by the rule, governs finality for purposes of
our jurisdiction, the judgment was not a final one at the
time the first appeal was granted. On the chance that it
might be dismissed as premature, a second appeal was
presented and allowed on September 21.
Our jurisdiction to review a state court judgment is
confined by long-standing statute to one which is final.
Judicial Code, § 237, 28 U. S. C. § 344. Final it must be
in two senses: it must be subject to no further review or
correction in any other state tribunal; it must also be final
as an effective determination of the litigation and not of
merely interlocutory or intermediate steps therein. It
must be the final word of a final court.
We have held that finality of a judgment of a state
court for determining the time within which our jurisdiction to review may be invoked is not controlled by the
designation applied in state practice. Department of
Banking v. Pink, 317 U. S.264; Cole v. Violette, 319 U. S.
581. The judgment for our purposes is final when the
issues are adjudged. Such finality is not deferred by the
existence of a latent power in the rendering court to
reopen or revise its judgment. The waiting period prescribed by the statute here seems to reserve a power of
that character. The decision during this period does not
lack the attributes of an adjudication, it is not awaiting
lapse of time to become a judgment, it merely is subject
to modification. When this period runs, unless the court
has moved meanwhile, it becomes powerless to change or
modify the judgment. Oakland v. Pacific Coast Lumber
Co., 172 Cal. 332, 337, 156 P. 468; Estate of Ross, 189 Cal.
317, 318, 207 P. 1014. The rule is thus a limitation on the
time during which the court may reconsider, which in absence of such rule might expire only with the end of the
term or some other event determinative under local law.
Such latent powers of state courts over their judgments

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

are too variable and indeterminate to serve as tests of
our jurisdiction. Our test is a practical one. When the
case is decided, the time to seek our review begins to run.
A timely petition for rehearing defers finality for our
purposes until it is acted upon or until power to act upon
it has expired as here it would appear to do at the end of
the 30-day period.' If rehearing is granted, the judgment
is opened, and does not become final as a prerequisite to
application for review by us until decision is rendered
upon rehearing.
We postponed consideration of jurisdiction until hearing on the merits.4 We hold that this judgment became
final on denial of rehearing, that the first appeal was
timely and that the precautionary second appeal is duplication. Accordingly the appeal in No. 511 is dismissed
and that in No. 510 is entertained upon its merits.
The Market Street Railway Company at the commencement of these proceedings operated a system of
passenger transportation by street car and by bus in San
Francisco and its environs. The Railroad Commission of
California instituted on its own motion an inquiry into
the Company's rates and service. After hearings, an order
3

"The Supreme Court or a District Court of Appeal may grant a
rehearing in any cause after its own decision; and any cause pending
in a department of the Supreme Court may be ordered heard by the
Supreme Court in bank. A rehearing or hearing in bank may be
granted on petition, as provided in subdivision (b) of this rile, or
on the court's own motion, prior to the time the decision becomes
final therein." Rule 27 (a).
"An order of the Supreme Court granting a rehearing shall be
signed by at least 4 justices assenting thereto, and filed with the
zlerk; and a hearing in bank after decision in department may be
ordered as provided in article VI, section 2, of the Constitution. If
no order is made before the decision becomes final, the petition shall
be deemed denied, and the clerk shall enter a notation in the register to
that effect." Rule 27 (e).
4November 13, 1944.

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

553

Opinion of the Court.

was promulgated reducing the fare from seven to six
cents.' The Company, after rehearing was denied,6 obtained review by the Supreme Court of California. It also
obtained a stay of the Commission's order, conditioned
upon impounding the disputed one cent per passenger to
abide settlement of the issues upon which its ownership
would depend. The Supreme Court of California affirmed
the order' and appeal is taken to this Court. Meanwhile
the Company sold its operative properties to the City of
San Francisco. The case is saved from being moot only
because its decision is necessary to determine whether
the Company is entitled to the impounded portion of the
fares or whether the money shall be refunded to passengers making claims and unclaimed amounts thereof be
paid over to the state, as required by conditions of the
stay order.
The appeal raises constitutional issues only. The contention is that the order deprives the appellant of its
property without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. Appellant claims denials of due
process in matters of procedure in that it had no adequate
notice that its rates were under attack or adequate opportunity for a hearing thereon, that the order in several vital
particulars is not supported by substantial evidence or
by any evidence, and that it was improperly based on matters outside of the record on which there was no opportunity to cross-examine or to be heard. It claims a taking
of its property as a result of the order on the ground that
it would force the Company to operate at a loss because
the Commission used a rate base of $7,950,000, the price
at which appellant had offered to sell its operative properties to the City, and did not consider reproduction cost,
5 The opinions are reported in 45 Cal. R. C. Dec. 53.
6 The opinion on rehearing is reported in 45 Cal. R. C. Dec. 162.
The Court's opinion is reported in 24 Cal. 2d 378, 150 P. 2d 196.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

historical cost, prudent investment, or capitalization
bases, on any of which under conventional accounting the
six-cent fare would produce no return on its property and
Would force a substantial operating deficit upon the
Company.
The appellant in support of its contentions that it has
been denied due process in procedure and has been subjected to an unconstitutional taking of its property invokes many decisions of this Court in which statements
have been made that seem to support its contentions.
But it should be noted at the outset that most of our cases
deal with utilities which had earning opportunities, and
public regulation curtailed earnings otherwise possible.
But if there were no public regulation at all, this appellant would be a particularly ailing unit of a generally sick
industry. The problem of reconciling the patrons' needs
and the investors' rights in an enterprise that has passed
its zenith of opportunity and usefulness, whose investment
already is impaired by economic forces, and whose earning
possibilities are already invaded by competition from
other forms of transportation, is quite a different problem.
The Company's practical situation throws important
light both on the question whether the rate reduction has
taken its property and also upon the criticisms it makes
of the conduct of the hearings.
Transportation history of San Francisco follows a pattern not unfamiliar. This property has passed through
cycles of competition, consolidation and monopoly, and
new forms of competition; it has seen days of prosperity,
decline, and salvage. In the 1850's an omnibus service
began to operate in San Francisco. In the 1860's came the
horse car. The 1870's saw the beginning of the cable car,
for which the contour of the city was peculiarly adapted.
The Market Street Railway Company was incorporated in 1893 and took over 11 of the 17 street car lines
then independently operated in the city. In 1902, United

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

555

Opinion of the Court.

Railroads of San Francisco was organized. This consolidated under one operating control properties of the Market Street Company and five other lines, comprising 229
miles of track, much of which was cable-operated. It
suffered greatly from the earthquake and fire of 1906, but
carried out a considerable program of reconstruction between 1906 and 1910. In 1921 it failed to pay interest on
outstanding bonds. Bondholders acquired the properties
and revived the Market Street Railway Company, which
had been a dormant subsidiary of United, to operate them.
In 1912 the City and County of San Francisco began
operation of a municipal street railway line. This line is
not and never has been under the Railroad Commission's
jurisdiction. It expanded rapidly, its routes in some instances parallel those of appellant; and its competition has
been serious. Throughout the period of competition the
municipal lines have operated on a five-cent fare. The
Market Street Line also operated on a five-cent fare until
July 6, 1937. In that year it applied to the Commission
for an increase to a seven-cent fare. This was denied, but
a two-cent transfer charge and other adjustments were
authorized. In March 1938 the Company again petitioned
for a seven-cent fare, with reduction for school children.
The Commission authorized a seven-cent fare, but required some concession to token buyers. A few months
later the Company again asked a straight seven-cent fare
and relief from the token rate. The Commission directed
the Company to apply to the City for permission to abandon certain lines and to protect it against "jitney competition," stipulating that the seven-cent fare could be made
effective if the City failed to respond. The City did not
act, and the seven-cent fare became effective January 1,
1939.
But the increase of fare brought no increase of revenue.
Both traffic and revenue continued to decline, and in 1941
reached the lowest point in twenty years. Then came

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

war, bringing accelerated activity, increase of population
of the city, rubber and gas shortage, restrictions on purchase of new and retirement of many old automobiles.
Traffic and revenues showed a sudden increase. The
Commission found, however, that the service had constantly deteriorated and was worse under the seven-cent
fare than under the former five-cent rate. It recognized
that some of the causes were beyond the Company's control. But after allowance for those causes, it also found
evidence of long-time neglect, mismanagement, and indifference to urgent public need. It found the Company's
service inferior to the service of the municipal lines, although appellant charged a 40 per cent higher fare. Defects in service consisted of failure to operate on schedule,
long intervals between cars, followed by several cars operating with little headway, overloading, inadequate inspection, and inadequately maintained rolling stock. The
Company had some 70 cars out of operation and in storage
because of shortage of manpower. Its street car rolling
stock was obsolete, 73 electric cars and 12 cable cars being
out of service. None of the cars was modern. The municipal lines had tried to lease the unused cars for operation on its lines, but the Company refused. The City was
denied priorities for purchase of new busses by federal authorities because of idle rolling stock in the city. The
Commission concluded that the reason for the Company's
declining to lease for a fair rental rolling stock it could not
use was fear of competition. The Company was handicapped in manpower, the municipal lines offering somewhat better wages and working conditions that seemed
more attractive. The entire system was suffering from
deferred maintenance, the amount expended for way and
structures maintenance having been steadily reduced,
both in dollars and in proportion of total operating costs.
The Commission disagreed with the Company as to the
use to be made of war-time increase in revenues. The

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

557

Opinion of the Court.

Company said it had no definite plan for setting aside
anything for maintenance. The management thought its
first obligation was to discharge its debts. The Commission took the view that allowances for depreciation as
part of the costs of operation should be spent in replacement of depreciated property, and not for payment of

debts.
Reviewing the financial results of fare increases, the
Commission concluded that the Company would reap no
lasting benefit from rates in excess of five cents, due to
the tendency of a higher rate to discourage patronage.
The war traffic the Commission thought temporary. But
it concluded that a six-cent fare would sufficiently stimulate traffic to leave after operating expenses approximately a six per cent return on a rate base of $7,950,000.
This was the figure at which the Company had offered
to sell its operative properties to the City. Accordingly
the Commission found the six cents to be a reasonable rate
to the Company and to be all or more than the reasonable
value of the services being rendered to patrons. It considered this rate to be experimental and kept the proceeding open for such further orders as might be just and
reasonable. The Company applied for rehearing on substantially the grounds it urges here. Its arguments were
considered at length in an opinion which denied rehearing. The Supreme Court of California overruled all of
the Company's objections and affirmed the Commission's

order.
The reduced rate never took effect. The Company obtained delay from the Commission and a stay order from
the Court. It then sold its properties to the City, which
took over and continued the seven-cent fare. So the anticipations of the Commission as to increased patronage
from the rate reduction never have been put to the test
of experience. Our review considers only whether the
order was valid when and as made.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

1. Appellant says that the order is invalid because it
was denied a fair hearing, given no adequate notice that
its rates were under attack, and hence was afforded no
opportunity for a hearing on the reasonableness of its
rates. We find this contention to have no foundation in
the record. The order of the Commission instituting the
proceeding recited its belief "that public interest demands
an inquiry into the reasonableness of the rates, as well
as the sufficiency and adequacy of the service rendered"
by appellant, and investigation was ordered of both. Due
notice of the proceeding was given and it was entitled an
investigation "into the reasonableness of the rates and
charges, and into the sufficiency and adequacy of the"
service. The hearing was opened with a similar statement by the Commission. The record is replete with
evidence that would have no bearing on the questions of
service except as fares were involved. Experts of the
Commission testified at length as to financial history and
rate experience of the Company. The Company's president testified concerning the rate situation and the Company's experience with the seven-cent fare. Its counsel
put in evidence the Commission's former decisions
authorizing increases in fares.
The Company particularly complains that it had no
notice that the Commission was receiving evidence of
its offer to sell its properties for $7,950,000 for use as a rate
base. The offer was received in evidence without limitation or statement of its purpose. Nothing appears to
mislead or entrap the Company or to lull it into a sense of
security. It seems simply to have assumed that no explanation of the offer was necessary. Doubtless the decision and the grounds of decision were unexpected. But
surprise is not necessarily want of due process.
We find that the Company had reasonable notice that
its rates were under attack and was not denied opportunity to be heard thereon. We can well understand how

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

559

Opinion of the Court.

counsel's attention became diverted to more sharply contested aspects of the case. But even if a more convincing
showing were made that the Company had relevant evidence to be heard, we find no adequate excuse for the failure to offer it in the proceeding. No offer was rejected, no
request for time to obtain such evidence was denied. A
misapprehension by a litigant of the steps which its best
interests require during a trial may be appealing grounds
for a plea to the discretion of the hearing tribunal for another chance, but it is not grounds for our interference as
a denial of constitutional rights.
2. It is next contended that the order is invalid under
the due process clause because it is unsupported by evidence and is based on the Commission's speculation and
conjecture. This charge relates particularly to those
findings which predict the effect of a rate reduction in
stimulating traffic. The Commission's estimates and predictions do not follow any particular testimony. Appellant urges that such predictive findings may be made only
on expert testimony, subject to cross-examination, explanation, and rebuttal, and may not be based on the Commission's own expert knowledge. Various considerations
are advanced to show that the Commission's predictions
were based on innocent analysis and were improbable.
Appellant relies upon our holding in Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 301 U. S. 292.
In that case the Commission ordered refunds "upon the
strength of evidential facts not spread upon the record."
This consisted "of information secretly collected and
never yet disclosed. The company protested. It asked
disclosure of the documents indicative of price trends, and
an opportunity to examine them, to analyze them, to explain and to rebut them. The response was a curt refusal.
Upon the strength of these unknown documents refunds
have been ordered for sums mounting into millions, the
Commission reporting its conclusion, but not the under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

lying proofs. The putative debtor does not know the
proofs today. This is not the fair hearing essential to due
process. It is condemnation without trial." Id. at 300.
Nothing of that kind occurred in this case. The basis for
a judgment is here in the record. The Company itself put
in evidence decisions by the Commission in which by
cautious steps it permitted advance of the rates from
five to seven cents. Traffic records before and after each
advance are in evidence. Also in the record is the traffic
experience of the competing municipal line, which did not
increase its fares and which did not suffer declines in traffic
and revenues comparable to those which followed this
Company's increase of fares. This is not a case where the
data basic to a judgment have been withheld from the
record. The complaint is that the Commission formed
its own conclusions without the aid of expert opinions.
It is contended that the Commission should draw conclusions from these facts only upon hearing testimony of
experts as to the conclusions they would draw from the
facts of record. Experts' judgments, however, would not
bind the Commission. Their testimony would be in the
nature of argument or opinion, and the weight to be given
it would depend upon the Commission's estimate of the
reasonableness of their conclusions and the force of their
reasoning. There is nothing to indicate that any consideration which could be advanced by an expert has not
been advanced by the Company in argument and fully
weighed.
We cannot say that it is a denial of due process for a
commission so experienced as the record shows this Commission to have been with the affairs of this particular appellant to draw inferences as to the probable effect on
traffic of a given rate decrease on such a record as we have
here. Particularly would a conclusion of denial of due
process be unwarranted where, as here, the Commission

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

561

Opinion of the Court.

recognized the infirmity of any predictions, regarded its
rate order as a temporary experiment for which no fixed
period was set, and held open the proceeding to receive
whatever lessons experience might teach. Its step here
is after all only receding, on experience, from steps it earlier had taken to advance the rate, which also had been
regarded as experimental and as to which experience had
disappointed expectations. We find no denial of due process in these circumstances from the fact that the Commission evaluated the Company's experience for itself
without the aid of expert testimony.
3. It also is urged that the order is invalid under the due
process clause because it is based on matters outside the
record. The decision of the Commission stated that "In
the eight months' period, January to August, inclusive, of
1943 the operating revenues of the company amounted to
$5,689,775," and compared this with the operating revenues for the same period of 1942 and found an increase of
20 per cent. On this basis it estimated the total for the
full year of 1943 under the prevailing seven-cent fare.
Challenged upon the ground that the operating revenues
from January to August of 1943 were not in the record,
the Commission admitted that these figures were taken
from the appellant's monthly reports filed with the Commission. It contended that even if it was in error to refer
to such reports, the error was harmless, since the record
without the figures supported the reasonableness of the
six-cent fare and it was therefore immaterial that the
Commission used some additional figures. No contention
is made here that the information was erroneous or was
misunderstood by the Commission, and no contention is
made that the Company could have disproved it or explained away its effect for the purpose for which the Commission used it. The most that can be said is that the
Commission in making its predictive findings went out-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

side of the record to verify its judgment by reference to
actual traffic figures that became available only after the
hearings closed. It does not appear that the Company
was in any way prejudiced thereby, and it makes no showing that, if a rehearing were held to introduce its own reports, it would gain much by cross-examination, rebuttal,
or impeachment of its own auditors or the reports they
had filed. Due process, of course, requires that commissions proceed upon matters in evidence and that parties
have opportunity to subject evidence to the test of crossexamination and rebuttal. But due process deals with
matters of substance and is not to be trivialized by formal
objections that have no substantial bearing on the ultimate
rights of parties. The process of keeping informed as to
regulated utilities is a continuous matter with commissions. We are unwilling to say that such an incidental reference as we have here to a party's own reports, although
not formally marked in evidence in the proceeding, in the
absence of any showing of error or prejudice constitutes a
want of due process.
4. The order is said to be invalid under the due process
clause because it is based in part on the so-called "value
of service" theory. It is urged that "a confiscatory rate
cannot be sustained on the theory that it is an adequate
price for the service independently valued" and there is no
evidence justifying a rate reduction on the theory of the
value of the service.
The question whether a confiscatory rate can be justified because service is bad can only be reached when we
find a prescribed rate to be confiscatory. As we do not
find this rate to be such, we do not need to pronounce upon
the abstract doctrine as to the validity of the "value of
service" theory as justifying rates that do not yield a
fair return. The Commission in this case did not make
an independent valuation of the service to patrons and
fix rates accordingly.

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

563

Opinion of the Court.

The consideration of service as a justification for rates
arises in this case upon a comparison of the service of the
Company under the five-cent rate and under the sevencent rate. The Commission found that the 40 per cent increase of rate had been accompanied by a deterioration of
service. Some factors in the bad service were beyond the
Company's control; others were found not to be without
remedy by good management. Certainly if the increased
fare had been accompanied by an improved service, it
would be used as an argument by the Company, and a
powerful one it would be, for the continuance of the higher
rate. That higher rates failed to improve, failed even to
maintain, service certainly removed one of the justifications for the increase which the Company was enjoying.
It must not be forgotten that the increases that the Commission had allowed were also experimental. So far as
the public was concerned the experiment with the sevencent rate yielded them no better immediate service and,
because of the Company's policies, gave them no prospect
of more permanent service. In fact, by discouragement
of patronage it threatened the continuance of the service.
Under these circumstances the Commission did not put
a monetary value on a street car ride as the basis of the
fare. Using the Company's service under the five-cent
fare as a standard, it found that the public-aside from
the service to war plants, which was admittedly goodwas receiving no more transportation service for seven
cents than it had received at five, and at the same time
the Company was not receiving increased revenues because the price of the service had exceeded the value that
the public put upon it and it had thereby withdrawn its
patronage.
Certainly the due process clause of the Constitution is
not violated when a commission takes into consideration
practical results to the public of advances which it has allowed in rates. To the extent that the Commission was

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

influenced by considerations of the value of the service in
this case, we find nothing that denies the Company any
rights possessed under the Federal Constitution.
5. The order is asserted to be invalid because it is said
to be confiscatory and to compel appellant to operate at a
loss. The Commission used a rate base of $7,950,000, the
price at which the property had been offered to the City,
and the six-cent rate is not calculated to permit any
return on a greater valuation. Before we consider the
validity of this rate base, we may well consider what
alternatives the case presents. No study of the present
cost of reproduction is shown, no present fair value is
suggested. Nor do we think it important. Apart from
familiar objections to the reproduction-cost method, no
responsible person would think of reproducing the present
plant, consisting in substantial part of cable cars and
obsolete equipment. There is no basis for assuming that
anyone, in the light of conditions which prevail in the
street-surface railroad industry generally, would consider
reproducing any street railway system. It was no constitutional error to proceed to fix a rate in disregard of
theoretical reproduction costs.
The Commission in 1920 made a valuation study of
appellant's properties and found an historical reproduction cost of road and equipment to be $29,715,147. This
valuation, brought forward by adding additions and betterments and deducting retirements, shows a total amount
for road and equipment as of December 31, 1942 of
$25,343,543.
Actual investment is not disclosed by the record. It
does disclose that the book value of appellant's properties
as of December 31, 1942 was $41,768,505.20.
The Company's outstanding securities at the end of
1942, issued with the approval of the Commission, totaled
$37,921,323.96 at face value. They consisted of common
stock of over $10,000,000; 3 different classes of preferred

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

565

Opinion of the Court.

stock of $21,000,000; first mortgage bonds of $4,217,500;
equipment notes of $735,748.28; and additional long-term
debt of $1,041,625.68.
Not one of these nor any combination of them affords a
practical or possible rate base, nor does the Company suggest that allowance of any rate will earn it a return upon
any of these. It has not itself ventured to ask a rate higher
than seven cents, although the inadequacy of its yield to
take care of the financial requirements of the Company
has for some time been apparent. This company obviously is up against a sort of law of diminishing returns;
the greater amount it collects per ride, the less amount it
collects per car mile. It has long been recognized that
this form of transportation could be preserved only by the
most complete cooperation between management and
public and the most enlightened efforts to make the service
attractive to patrons." It is obvious that, for whatever
8 In May of 1919 the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of
Labor joined in a letter to President Wilson, advising him that 50
or more urban street railway systems representing a considerable
percentage of the electric railway mileage was in the hands of receivers, affecting some of the largest cities of the country, and that
other systems were on the verge of insolvency and the industry as a
whole was virtually bankrupt. They urged the appointment of a
commission to study and report upon the problem. President Wilson
on June 1, 1919 named a commission which held extensive public
hearings. The first witness was ex-President William Howard Taft,
speaking for the National War Labor Board, and others, including
leading municipal and railway officials and such experienced persons
in the problem of regulation as Newton D. Baker, Milo R. Maltbie,
Morris L. Cook, Joseph B. Eastman, and many others. Proceedings
of the Federal Electric Railways Commission, v. 1. An exhaustive
report with many recommendations was made. See Analysis of the
Electric Railway Problem prepared for the Federal Electric Railways
Commission by De Los F. Wilcox, New York City, 1921. Its recommendations were extensive, including certain changes both by the
municipalities and by the companies affected. The recommendations
were not generally heeded by either.

637582 -46---40

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

cause, the appellant has not succeeded in maintaining its
service on a paying basis.
It is idle to discuss holdings of cases or to distinguish
quotations in decisions of this or other courts which have
dealt with utilities whose economic situation would yield
a permanent profit, denied or limited only by public regulation. While the Company does not assert that it would
be economically practicable to obtain a return on its investment, it strongly contends that the order is confiscatory by the tests of Federal Power Commission v. Hope
Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 603, 605, from which it
claims to be entitled to a return "sufficient to assure confidence in the financial integrity of the enterprise, so as to
maintain its credit and to attract capital" and to "enable
the company to operate successfully, to maintain its financial integrity, to attract capital, and to compensate its
investors for the risks assumed." Those considerations,
advanced in that case (which was reviewed pursuant to
statute rather than under the Fourteenth Amendment),
concerned a company which had advantage of an economic position which promised to yield what was held
to be an excessive return on its investment and on its
securities. They obviously are inapplicable to a company whose financial integrity already is hopelessly undermined, which could not attract capital on any possible rate, and where investors recognize as lost a part of
what they have put in. It was noted in the Hope Natural
Gas case that regulation does not assure that the regulated business make a profit. 320 U. S. at 603; see Federal Power Commission v. Natural Gas Pipeline Co., 315
U. S. 575, 590. All that was held was that a company
could not complain if the return which was allowed made
it possible for the company to operate successfully. There
was no suggestion that less might not be allowed when
the amount allowed was all that the company could earn.

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

567

Opinion of the Court.

Without analyzing rate cases in detail, it may be safely
generalized that the due process clause never has been
held by this Court to require a commission to fix rates
on the present reproduction value of something no one
would presently want to reproduce, or on the historical
valuation of a property whose history and current financial statements showed the value no longer to exist, or on
an investment after it has vanished, even if once prudently made, or to maintain the credit of a concern whose
securities already are impaired. The due process clause
has been applied to prevent governmental destruction of
existing economic values. It has not and cannot be applied to insure values or to restore values that have been
lost by the operation of economic forces.
The owners of a property dedicated to the public service cannot be said to suffer injury if a rate is fixed for an
experimental period, which probably will produce a fair
return on the present fair value of their property. If it
has lost all value except salvage, they suffer no loss if
they earn a return on salvage value. If the property has
no prospect of salvage except through dismantling and
sale for scrap, the scrap value for such of it as is to be
scrapped may represent its present worth. In this case
the owners were fortunate in having a potential buyer.
Negotiations had long been under way. The operative
properties were twice offered to the City of San Francisco
for $7,950,000 and twice the voters rejected the proposition. Ultimately the properties were sold for $7,500,000.
The evidence shows that the president of the Company
reported to the directors "that the price mentioned is the
amount that has been agreed upon for the purchase by the
City and County of San Francisco of the operative properties of the Company after negotiations in respect thereto
which covered a considerable period of time and, as previously mentioned, is the best price obtainable therefor."

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Upon this understanding the Board of Directors ratified
the offer and directed the officers to consummate it.
It is now contended that this offer was calculated by
a capitalization of earning power and that this Court condemned such a basis of valuation in Federal Power Commission v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 601, when
it said, "The heart of the matter is that rates cannot be
made to depend upon 'fair value' when the value of the
going enterprise depends on earnings under whatever
rates may be anticipated." The pronouncement in the
Hope case was directed to a situation where the demand
for the service permitted such a range of choice in rates
as would greatly affect the value of the property. No
such choice appears open to the appellant. Apart from
a little brief war-time prosperity, it seems doubtful
whether any rate would yield appellant's operating
expenses.
Under these circumstances we do not find that anything
has been taken from the appellant by the impact of public
regulation. If the expectations of the Commission as to
traffic increase were well founded, it would earn under
this rate on the salvage value of its property, which is
the only value it is shown to have. If expectations of
increased traffic were unfounded, it could probably not
earn a return from any rate that could be devised. We
are unable to find that the order in this case is in violation
of constitutional prohibitions, however unfortunate the
plight of the appellant.
6. The Company also contends that it is entitled to reversal because the order contemplated a test of experience, and the experiment has not taken place, and the
Commission's predictions cannot be verified. However,
it was the Company which defeated the experiment. A
very short trial-a period much shorter than is required
to conduct a litigation-would have indicated the effect

MARKET STREET R. CO. v. COMM'N.
548

569

Opinion of the Court.

of the rate reduction in stimulating traffic. But at the
Company's request the experiment was stayed and then
totally frustrated by the sale of the property. Under
these circumstances the unavailability of experience to
test the order cannot affect its validity. It might be
grounds for an appeal to the discretion of the tribunal
which rendered the order. It certainly is not a constitutional objection to be enforced by us.
The fixing of future rates always involves an element
of prediction. Even monopolies must sell their services
in a market where there is competition for the consumer's
dollar and the price of a commodity affects its demand and
use. This effect may be predicted or projected, but it can
be known only from experience. The many detailed objections which the Company makes to the Commission's
computations of probable yield would be answered by experience. There is nothing in the order which requires
that the test period should be a year or any definite time,
and there is no ground for assuming that the Commission
would have rejected an application to make such changes
in the schedule as experience might show to be necessary,
in order to produce, if possible, the revenue which it found
to be needed. The Commission had not in the past been
indifferent to appellant's fiscal problems. Under such
circumstances we think it is not forbidden by the Constitution that there be a pragmatic test of matters which
even the most expert could not know in advance. Cf.
Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v. Public Service Commission,
291 U. S. 227.
We have considered appellant's complaints in considerable detail because the case in so many ways departs from
the usual rate case. We find no constitutional infirmity
in the result or in the procedure by which it is reached.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is therefore
Affirmed.

