320

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
324 U. S.

Syllabus.

the state courts. In re Thompson's Estate, 179 Okla. 240,
65 P. 2d 442. The statute, that is, had in mind the judicial
process of ascertaining the heir and the completion of that
process by court action whereby the land was "turned
over" to the ascertained heir. And so here, when the
Oklahoma court decreed that Pitts was Mamie's heir, the
land in the sensible use of the phrase "turned over" was
turned over to Pitts.
Other arguments have not been overlooked but they
need not be separately considered.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissents.

DOW CHEMICAL CO. v. HALLIBURTON OIL WELL
CEMENTING CO.
NO. 50.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.*
Argued February 6, 1945.-Decided March 5, 1945.

1. To resolve a conflict between Circuit Courts of Appeals as to the
validity of a patent, this Court will determine independently the
factual issue of validity. P. 322.
2. Grebe and Sanford Patent No. 1,877,504, Claims 1, 5, 7, 8 and 9,
for a method of treating deep wells to increase production, held
invalid for want of invention. Pp. 324, 331.
In the described process there was no patentable invention in
any of the following claims or any combination thereof: (1) addition
of an inhibiting agent to the hydrochloric acid solution to prevent
corrosion; (2) use of a dilute rather than a concentrated hydrochloric acid solution; (3) use of the ordinary pump tube instead of
a specially protected supply pipe to introduce the acid into the well.
3. The application of an old process to a new and analogous use lacks
the very essence of an invention. P. 327.
*Together with No. 61, HalliburtonOil Well Cementing Co. v. Dow
Chemical Co., also on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit.

DOW CO. v. HALLIBURTON CO.
320

Opinion of the Court.

4. The mere addition of water to dilute a known chemical solution
does not entitle one to a patent monopoly, at least unless a definite
dilution point or range is discovered corresponding to a physical
phenomenon. P. 329.
5. The mere substitution of equivalents which do substantially the
same thing in the same way, even though better results may be
produced, is not such an invention as will sustain a patent. P. 330.
6. That a claimed invention filled a long felt want and has been a
commercial success is relevant only when the question of invention
is otherwise in doubt. P. 330.
139 F. 2d 473, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 719, on cross-petitions by a patent
owner (petitioner in No. 50) and an alleged infringer
(cross-petitioner in No. 61), to review the affirmance of a
decree holding invalid certain claims of a patent and dismissing the complaint in a suit for infringement.

Messrs. Bernard A. Schroeder and Charles J. Merriam,
with whom Messrs. Russell Wiles, Wilber Owen, Calvin
A. Campbell and Don L. Conner were on the brief, for
the Dow Chemical Co.
Mr. Leonard S. Lyon, with whom Messrs. Frederick S.
Lyon and Earl Babcock were on the brief, for the Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co.
MR. JUSTICE MuRPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In issue here is the validity of United States Patent No.
1,877,504, relating to "the treatment of deep wells, such as
oil, gas, brine or water wells, to increase the output therefrom," issued to John J. Grebe and Ross T. Sanford on
September 12, 1932.
Petitioner, the owner of the patent, brought this suit
against respondent for alleged infringement. Both the
District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan and
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals held the patent invalid for want of invention and denied relief. 139 F. 2d

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

473. Previously the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, in
reversing the judgment of the District Court for the
Northern District of Oklahoma, had held the patent valid
and infringed in a suit brought by petitioner against another party. Dow Chemical Co. v. Williams Bros. Well
Treating Corp., 81 F. 2d 495, cert. denied, 298 U. S. 690.
The conflicting views of the appellate courts concerning
the validity of the same patent led us to grant certiorari
in this case, 322 U. S. 719, and oblige us to decide independently the factual issue of validity. Universal Oil Co.
v. Globe Co., 322 U. S. 471, 473.
The stated object of the Grebe-Sanford patent is "to
counteract some preventable natural causes for the decline of yield of a well" where the well has been drilled
into a limestone or other calcareous formation. As oil is
pumped from a well, the underground flow to the well
decreases and the yield declines until pumping is no longer
profitable. Yet it is known that when that point is
reached there often remains embedded in the rock formation a great deal of oil unrecoverable by ordinary processes. Many methods have been suggested to recover
this hidden oil. The forcing of water or gas into the rock
formation, the heating of the surrounding rock and the
use of explosives have all been proposed but found
wanting in one way or another.
Eventually, however, the idea was conceived of using
acid to dissolve the limestone, thus opening channels
through which the oil could flow into the well. This idea
first appears to have been developed in United States
Patent No. 556,669, issued on March 17, 1896, to Herman
Frasch, with a half interest being assigned to John W.
Van Dyke. The essence of this patent was the introduction into the oil well of a large solution of hydrochloric acid under pressure, with fresh water being added
later to force the acid further into the limestone. Frasch
recommended the use of commercial hydrochloric acid
containing from 30% to 40% by weight of the acid gas

DOW CO. v. HALLIBURTON CO.
320

Opinion of the Court.

HCl; he further recommended that the acid remain in
the well for twelve hours. A suitably arranged packer
was to be used to confine the acid to the lower or oilyielding portion of the well hole.
Frasch also recognized that the hydrochloric acid was
likely to corrode the metal well equipment. Hence the
patent suggested that the regular well tubing be removed
and that an enameled or lead-lined pipe be inserted to
conduct the acid down into the well, "or it may be otherwise made proof against corrosion." An additional suggestion was that an alkaline liquid be introduced to
neutralize the acid after it had performed its function.
Frasch's method proved successful in disintegrating
limestone rock and increasing the flow of oil. The record
shows that at least fourteen commercial wells near Lima,
Ohio, were treated with this process in 1895 and 1896,
resulting in substantial production increases in most instances. Wide publicity was given to these operations.
But despite this success, Frasch and Van Dyke soon discontinued their work along these lines. The reasons for
this abandonment are not clearly disclosed by the record.
Respondent suggests personal reasons on the part of
Frasch and Van Dyke and claims that the relatively undeveloped oil industry at that time had little use for such
an invention. Petitioner, however, contends that Frasch's
method was so cumbersome and expensive that it was commercially impracticable; 1 such is also the reason advanced
by the court in the Williams Bros. case, 81 F. 2d at 496.
1Petitioner argues that (1) Frasch used concentrated acid that
was so corrosive as to compel the use of the costly and cumbersome
expedient of removing the ordinary well tube and inserting a special acid supply pipe; (2) concentrated acid being less effective
than diluted acid in reacting on the limestone rock, the production
increases achieved by Frasch were too small to justify the expense
of the treatment; and (3) viscous spent acid was difficult to remove
under the Frasch method from the pores of the rock and hence blocked
or lessened the flow of oil to the well hole.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Whatever the reason for the failure of the Frasch
method to achieve wide-spread use, the Grebe-Sanford
patent in issue claims to be an improved method of
treating wells with a hydrochloric acid solution. The
patent expressly recognizes the Frasch treatment but
states that it was never generally adopted "due to the
fact that the acid attacks the metallic casing, pump tube,
etc. about as actively as the rock, and causes serious damage thereto." To meet this alleged defect, the Grebe-Sanford patent proposes the use of a hydrochloric acid solution containing "a small amount of a substance capable of
inhibiting attack of the acid upon metal surfaces . . .
with which it comes in contact." The preferred inhibiting
agent is one of several specified arsenic compounds, to
be added in the amount of from 1% to 5% of the weight
of the solution. Numerous other inhibitors are also suggested. The patent further states that "the strength of
the aqueous hydrochloric acid solution, in general best
adapted to the purpose in hand, may be between about 5
per cent and about 20 per cent, and preferably should be
between 10 and 15 per cent although other concentrations may be used, if desired." Claim 8 (claims 1, 5, 7, 8
and 9 are in issue) best sums up the preferred form of
the Grebe-Sanford process:
"The method for increasing the output of an oil well
which comprises charging into the pump tube a quantity
of a 5 to 20 per cent hydrochloric acid solution containing
a relatively small amount of a corrosion inhibitor, expelling the acid from the tube into the bore of the well by
applying pressure thereon, permitting the acid to act upon
the rock formation surrounding the well cavity and withdrawing the spent cid."
The parties differ as to the precise scope of the alleged
patentable improvement over the Frasch method of
acidizing wells. Respondent urges, and the two courts
below held, that the sole object of the Grebe-Sanford

DOW CO. v. HALLIBURTON CO.
320

Opinion of the Court.

process is simply to protect the well equipment from corrosion by adding an inhibiting agent to the hydrochloric
acid solution.' Petitioner has consistently claimed, on the
other hand, that the patent specifies three novel points
which elevate the described process to the level of an invention: (1) the addition of an inhibiting agent to the
hydrochloric acid solution to prevent corrosion; (2) the
use of a dilute rather than a concentrated hydrochloric
acid solution; and (3) the use of the ordinary pump tube
instead of a specially protected supply pipe to introduce
the acid into the well. Assuming without deciding that
petitioner's version of the alleged improvement is correct, however, we hold that no one of these three claims
and no combination thereof evidences that degree of skill
and ingenuity which constitutes the essential ingredient
of a true invention.
(1) The additionof an inhibitingagent. It is clear that
the Grebe-Sanford suggestion that an inhibiting agent,
preferably an arsenic compound, be added to the hydrochloric acid solution presents no patentable advance over
the prior art. Petitioner makes no claim that the inhibiting agent in any way affects the chemical action of the
acid on the limestone rock; it states merely that the inhibitor acts so as to prevent or restrict the corrosive effect
of the acid on the metal well tubing and equipment. But
long before the Grebe-Sanford process was patented it
had been known that inhibiting agents could be used to
protect metals from acid solutions. More particularly, it
One of petitioner's experts testified that the main claim of the
Grebe-Sanford patent is the addition to the hydrochloric acid of some
material which will inhibit the action of the acid and that the claimed
result "would be limited apparently to the equipment, rather than to
the well itself." He stated further that the suggested inhibitors
"would have no effect on the acid, in connection with its reaction upon
limestone" and that they "have a specific function on the metal
equipment used in connection with the well treatment."
2

637582 --4---25

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

was well known that arsenic compounds mixed with hydrochloric acid solutions acted as effective inhibitors and
numerous patents embodying that principle had been
granted.8 Various inhibitors were available on the market at the time of the conception of the Grebe-Sanford
process and were used extensively in the commercial pickling of iron and steel products in acid solutions and in the
transportation of acids in metal containers.
There was evidence, moreover, that in 1928 and 1929
the Gypsy Oil Company had successfully used inhibited
hydrochloric acid to remove scale from certain of its oil
wells drilled in sandstone formations. This process was
based upon a report made on behalf of the Mellon Institute at Pittsburgh at the request of the Gypsy Oil
Company, which had been bothered by the formation of
scale on the metal well equipment. The report, after noting that "the selection of a solvent was a simple matter"
and that "the commercial use of inhibitors for the protection of metals in acid solutions is not new," recommended the removal of the scale by the use of a hydrochloric acid solution treated with an inhibitor obtainable
on the market. Even if petitioner be correct in labeling
this Gypsy Oil Company use as an abandoned experiment
not amounting to anticipation, it is significant that the
use of an inhibitor to check the hydrochloric acid from
corroding the metal well equipment while attacking the
scale suggested itself without trouble.
Thus prior to the patenting of the Grebe-Sanford
process in 1932 the following facts were manifest and ele8See,

for example, Patent to Beneker, No. 914,916 (1909) ; Patent
to Gravell, No. 1,678,775 (1928). For patents involving the use of inhibitors other than arsenic compounds, see Patent to Holmes, No.
1,470,225 (1923); Patent to Rhodes, No. 1,746,677 (1930); Patent
to Rhodes, No. 1,746,678 (1930); Patent to Vignos, No. 1,750,651
(1930); Patent to Harrison, No. 1,766,902 (1930); Patent to Corson, No. 1,773,953 (1930); Patent to Calcott, No. 1,785,513 (1930);
Patent to Burke, No. 1,789,805 (1931).

DOW CO. v. HALLIBURTON CO.
320

327

Opinion of the Court.

mentary to any one skilled in the art: (a) hydrochloric
acid would dissolve limestone and increase the production
of. oil wells, as demonstrated by the Frasch patent; (b)
hydrochloric acid would also corrode metal with which it
came in contact; (c) arsenic compounds and other chemicals could be added to hydrochloric acid to inhibit this
corrosive effect; and (d) inhibited hydrochloric acid could
effectively be utilized to remove scale from metal well
equipment without corroding the metal. A representative of the Pure Oil Company then suggested to Grebe and
Sanford the possibility of acidizing oil wells to increase
production. The latter, from their knowledge of brine
well acidizing and of corrosion inhibition, immediately
recommended the use of hydrochloric acid containing an
inhibitor. Grebe and Sanford at this time apparently did
not know about the Frasch patent. But spurred by the
suggestion of the Pure Oil Company, they worked out the
process in issue on the basis of known facts and reactions.
All the Grebe-Sanford process taught was the obvious
fact that hydrochloric acid could be inhibited to prevent
corrosion while being used to dissolve limestone rock pursuant to the Frasch method of acidizing wells. No new
mental or physical operation was required to add, as suggested by the Grebe-Sanford process, an arsenic compound
of from 1% to 5% of the weight of a hydrochloric acid
solution. No new or unexpected results were obtained
by the addition of such an inhibitor. It was perfectly
plain to an expert that the metal well equipment would
thereby be protected from corrosion. The Grebe-Sanford
method, in short, involved in this respect no more than
a mere application of an old process of inhibition to
a new and analogous use of protecting metal well equipment from corrosion when the well is being acidized to
increase production. Such a process lacks the very essence
of an invention. See Electric Cable Co. v. Brooklyn Edison Co., 292 U. S. 69, 79, 80; ParamountPublix Corp. v.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 464, 473; Cuno Engineering Corp. v. Automatic Devices Corp., 314 U. S.
84, 89.
The fact that prior to 1932 no one had apparently
thought to use an inhibitor while acidizing an oil well to
increase production cannot inject into the Grebe-Sanford
process the attributes of an invention. Especially is this
so since there is no evidence of any one trying unsuccessfully to inhibit hydrochloric acid for such purposes. He
who is merely the first to utilize the existing fund of public
knowledge for new and obvious purposes must be satisfied with whatever fame, personal satisfaction or commercial success he may be able to achieve. Patent monopolies, with all their significant economic and social consequences, are not reserved for those who contribute so
insubstantially to that fund of public knowledge.
(2) The use of a dilute rather than a concentrated hydrochloric acid solution. Petitioner lays great stress on
the fact that the Grebe-Sanford process suggests the use
of a dilute hydrochloric acid solution containing only
5% to 20% HC1 (preferably 10% to 15%). It is pointed
out that Frasch's patent called for the use of commercial
hydrochloric acid, which contains from 30% to 40% of
HCl, and that in some of his treatments from 27% to 28%
was actually used. Petitioner claims that the dilution
recommended by the Grebe-Sanford process substantially
reduces the viscosity of the acid, greatly slows its reaction on limestone (thus allowing the acid to open up channels distant from the well hole instead of spending itself
immediately and entirely on the nearby rock) and greatly
reduces its corrosive action on iron and steel.4
Nothing appears in the Grebe-Sanford patent claims,
however, to support the thesis that dilution is part of the
4 There was evidence introduced to the effect that a hydrochloric
acid solution is much more corrosive when it contains 30% HC1 than
when it contains from 5% to 20%.

DOW CO. v. HALLIBURTON CO.
320

Opinion of the Court.

alleged invention. The main concern seems to have been
directed at the failure of Frasch to recommend the use
of an inhibiting agent. The suggested strength of the
Grebe-Sanford solution is merely the one "in general best
adapted to the purpose in hand" and it is said that "other
concentrations may be used, if desired." Apparently dilution is recommended since the inhibiting agent can act
more effectively with a weaker acid, which is obviously less
corrosive than a more concentrated acid. At the same
time, the recommended dilution allows the solution to be
of a strength such that the soluble salts formed by its
action on the rock will remain dissolved therein. The
patent does not state that an acid outside the range of
5% to 20% strength will fail and no affirmative advantage
over the Frasch method is claimed insofar as the strength
of the acid is concerned.
But even assuming that a dilute solution is an ingredient of the alleged invention, we can find none of the elements of true invention adhering thereto. The mere addition of water to dilute a known chemical solution does
not entitle one to a patent monopoly, at least unless a
definite dilution point or range is discovered corresponding to a physical phenomenon. Kwik Set, Inc. v. Welch
Grape Juice Co., 86 F. 2d 945, 947. No such discovery
was made here. The advantages said to accompany a
dilute solution do not correspond to any particular dilution point or range. The patent recommends that the
acid be diluted to a 5% to 20% strength but it is recognized that "other concentrations may be used, if desired,"
to achieve the purpose at hand. Such a broad and indefinite specification as to dilution is fatal to a claimed
invention.
(3) The use of the ordinary pump tube. The GrebeSanford patent mentions the use of the ordinary pump
tube to convey the acid to the bottom of the well hole,
whereas the Frasch patent had contemplated withdrawal of

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

the ordinary pump tube in favor of a smaller and specially
protected supply tube. But this is at most an incidental
and unimportant part of the Grebe-Sanford method, as
is recognized by the statement in the patent that "it is not
necessary, however, to add the acid solution through the
pump tube, as any other convenient way may be employed." No new function is performed by the pump
tube that is not performed by the Frasch supply tube;
both merely convey the acid to the bottom of the well
hole. Any advantage in cost or simplicity which the use
of the ordinary pump tube may give is the result of the
use of an inhibitor in the acid rather than any intrinsic
merit of the pump tube. It is elemental that the mere
substitution of equivalents which do substantially the
same thing in the same way, even though better results
may be produced, is not such an invention as will sustain
a patent. Dunbar V. Myers, 94 U. S. 187, 199; Smith v.
Nichols, 21 Wall. 112,119.
Finally, petitioner claims that the Grebe-Sanford
process has filled a long felt want and has been a commercial success. But these considerations are relevant only
in a close case where all other proof leaves the question
of invention in doubt. Smith v. Hall, 301 U. S. 216, 233;
McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 428, 429. Here the
lack of invention is beyond doubt and cannot be outweighed by such factors. Moreover, there is an absence
in this case of any long felt want or of any recognized problem that had baffled the contemporary art. There is no
evidence that any one with knowledge of the Frasch
method and with knowledge of the use of inhibitors in
hydrochloric acid ever tried unsuccessfully to use the
Frasch method with inhibited hydrochloric acid. Nor is
there any proof of fruitless demands and efforts to prevent
corrosion while acidizing oil wells. Whenever the need
arose to prevent corrosion in the use of hydrochloric acid,
whether for purposes of pickling, scale removal or oil

COMM'R v. COURT HOLDING CO.
320

Counsel for Parties.

well acidizing, the addition of inhibitors was suggested
immediately and without effort. The great fund of public
knowledge was simply drawn upon the first time the
problem was considered, resulting in the obvious process
described in the Grebe-Sanford patent.
Since we conclude that the Grebe-Sanford patent is
invalid for want of invention, we need not consider
respondent's cross-petition raising questions as to whether
respondent's process infringed the patent.
Affirmed.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
COURT HOLDING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 581.

Argued February 26, 1945.-Decided March 12, 1945.

1. There was evidence to support the finding of the Tax Court that
the transaction in question-formally a sale by stockholders of
property conveyed to them as a "liquidating dividend"-was a sale
by the corporation rather than by the stockholders, which finding
must therefore be accepted by the courts; and the Tax Court's
conclusion that, under ยง 22 of the Internal Revenue Code, the corporation was taxable on the gain from the sale is sustained. P. 333.
2. That the corporation never executed a written agreement, and that
an oral agreement for the sale of rehlty was unenforcible under the
state law, does not require a different result, in view of the Tax
Court's finding that the executed sale was in substance a sale by the
corporation. P. 334.
143 F. 2d 823, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 702, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 531, sustaining the Com-

missioner's determination of a deficiency in income tax.

Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Sewall Key, Harry
Baum, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief,
for petitioner.

