490

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

Other objections aside, it seems obvious that this Court
cannot give any effective relief removing the threat of
injury to the State resulting from a railroad rate conspiracy without breaking down the system of rate regulation by the Commission-a system which Congress has
painstakingly built up since the decisions, more than
forty-five years ago, in United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, and United States v. Joint
Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505, when the Commission was
without power to prescribe rates. See Texas & Pacific
R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., supra; Terminal Warehouse Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., supra, 513.
The reasoning of the Court is not and cannot be restricted to this case. If Georgia may prosecute the present suit, every shipper or consignee of freight who asserts
injury by a conspiracy respecting railroad rates in violation of the antitrust laws may maintain a like suit in
a district court. The prosecution of such suits cannot
fail to bring chaos into the field of interstate rate making.
The entry of decrees for the plaintiffs could only mean
the breakdown of the unified system of fixing rates by
Commission action, which Congress has ordained by the
Interstate Commerce Act. It was the purpose of § 16
of the Clayton Act to preclude such a breakdown. Its
purpose can and should be effected by the refusal of this
Court to entertain the proposed suit.
A. H. PHILLIPS, INC. v. WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION,
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 608. Argued March 2, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.

1. Provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act granting exemptions
from the operation of the Act are to be narrowly construed.

P. 493.

PHILLIPS CO. v. WALLING.
490

Opinion of the Court.

2. Section 13 (a) (2) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, exempting from
the operation of the Act employees "engaged in any retail . . .
establishment," held inapplicable to warehouse and central office
employees of an interstate retail chain store system. P. 493.
144 F. 2d 102, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 704, to review the affirmance of
a decree, 50 F. Supp. 749, enjoining the petitioner from
violating the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Mr. Joseph B. Ely, with whom Messrs. Frederick M.
Kingsbury and Edward T. Collins were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Miss Bessie Margolin, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Douglas B. Maggs and
Archibald Cox were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. CharlesB. Rugg filed a brief on behalf of the American Retail Federation, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 13 (a) (2) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, 52 Stat. 1060, 1067, 29 U. S. C. § 213 (a) (2), states
that the wage and hour provisions of the Act shall not
apply with respect to "any employee engaged in any retail
or service establishment the greater part of whose selling
or servicing is in intrastate commerce." The issue posed
by this case is whether employees working in the warehouse and central office of an interstate grocery chain store
system are "engaged in any retail . . . establishment"
within the meaning of § 13 (a) (2) so as to be exempt
from the wage and hour provisions.
The petitioner corporation operates a chain of 49 retail
grocery stores in cities and towns within a 35-mile radius
from Springfield, Massachusetts. Of these stores, 40 are in
Massachusetts and 9 are in Connecticut. Quite apart from

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U: S.

these retail stores, petitioner maintains a separate warehouse and office building in Springfield in which work the
employees involved in this case.
The warehouse is the only one maintained by petitioner
and it services all the 49 stores. Except for bread, pastry
and milk, which are secured from local sources, all of petitioner's merchandise is delivered by rail and truck to the
warehouse where it is divided and then delivered by petitioner's trucks to the individual stores according to need.
About 80% of the merchandise passing through the warehouse is received from outside Massachusetts, while about
18% of the total sales by dollar volume of the merchandise
shipped from this warehouse is accounted for by petitioner's Connecticut stores. Each week a regular order
is delivered to each store from the warehouse and additional deliveries are made as required. Merchandise is
supplied on the basis of requisitions prepared by individual store managers, subject to revision by one of the
three superintendents in the central office. All of petitioner's sales are made exclusively at the retail stores and
no deliveries to customers are made from the warehouse.
Employees in the central office, which is located in the
same building as the warehouse, perform the usual functions of checking invoices, paying bills, making out payrolls, keeping inventory records, checking store deliveries
and the like. The various employees in the warehouse
and the truck drivers handle the physical work connected
with the receipt, storage and shipment of merchandise.
None of these employees segregates his time as between
interstate and intrastate shipments; both types of shipments are handled indiscriminately to and from the
warehouse.
On the basis of these facts, the Administrator of the
Wage and Hour Division sought to enjoin petitioner from
violating the overtime and record provisions of the Act.
The District Court granted the injunction, holding (1)

PHILLIPS CO. v. WALLING.
490

Opinion of the Court.

that the warehouse and central office employees were engaged in interstate commerce within the meaning of the
Act and (2) that they were not exempted from the wage
and hour provisions by reason of § 13 (a) (2) since the
warehouse and office building did not constitute a retail
establishment. 50 F. Supp. 749. The First Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed as to both points. 144 F. 2d 102.
Petitioner, however, has sought review here only as to
the second point. And certiorari was granted because of
the conflicting views expressed on this issue by lower
appellate courts.1
The Fair Labor Standards Act was designed "to extend
the frontiers of social progress" by "insuring to all our
able-bodied working men and women a fair day's pay for
a fair day's work." Message of the President to Congress,
May 24, 1934. Any exemption from such humanitarian
and remedial legislation must therefore be narrowly construed, giving due regard to the plain meaning of statutory
language and the intent of Congress. To extend an exemption to other than those plainly and unmistakably
within its terms and spirit is to abuse the interpretative
process and to frustrate the announced will of the people.
We accordingly agree with the two courts below that the
exemption contained in § 13 (a) (2) is inapplicable in this
case and that the employees involved are entitled to the
benefits of the wage and hour provisions of the Act. We
hold, in other words, that the warehouse and central office
of petitioner's chain store system cannot properly be considered a retail establishment within the meaning of
§ 13 (a) (2).
1The

decision below in this case is in accord with the reasoning
(C. C. A. 3), but is

of Walling v. American Stores Co., 133 F. 2d 840

in conflict with Allesandro v. C. F.Smith Co., 136 F. 2d 75 (C. C. A. 6),
Walling v. L. Wiemann Co., 138 F. 2d 602 (C. C. A. 7), and Walling V.
Block, 139 F. 2d 268 (C. C. A. 9).

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

It is necessary, in the first place, to understand the true
nature of petitioner's warehouse and office. The prime
function of petitioner's chain store system is to sell groceries at retail. Like most large chains, however, petitioner has found it economically feasible to perform and
integrate both the retail and wholesale functions of the
grocery business. The independent wholesaler or middleman has been eliminated from the channel of distribution
of petitioner's merchandise. Petitioner not only operates
the retail outlets but purchases the merchandise in quantity from producers, stores it in a warehouse and systematically allots it to the individual stores. Certain economies in operation result from the direct mass buying
and centralized merchandising control which would otherwise be impossible to achieve. ' A warehouse and a central
office such as petitioner maintains are vital factors in this
integration of the retail and wholesale functions. They
are necessary instruments for the successful performance
of the wholesale aspects of a multi-function business of
this type.
There are, to be sure, certain distinctions between the
wholesale activities of a chain store system and those of
an independent wholesaler. Thus a chain store enterprise
does not customarily sell merchandise in its warehouse
to retailers or other wholesale customers as does an independent wholesaler.' The goods stored in a chain store
warehouse are merely distributed rather than sold to the
retail stores. See Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517, 537,
538. But this and other differences that can be found arise
from the fact that the chain organizations have completely
See Beckman and Nolen, The Chain Store Problem (1938), pp.
48-50.
Although petitioner's warehouse apparently does no wholesale business with independent retailers, many chain store warehouses sell certain quantities of merchandise to outside retailers in addition to
supplying their own retail outlets. Beckman and Nolen, The Chain
Store Problem (1938), p. 8.
2

PHILLIPS CO. v. WALLING.
490

Opinion of the Court.

meshed the retail and wholesale functions. Many of the
costs and risks normally assumed by the wholesale merchant because of his independent and competitive nature
are eliminated by the chain store organization. The resulting savings and simplifications serve only to emphasize some of the major effects of the apparent trend away
from the independent middleman in our economy of disThe disappearance of the independent midtribution
dleman, together with many of his separate operations
and charges, does not mean, however, that his essential
intermediary or wholesale function of moving goods from
producer to retailer has been abolished. In this instance
it has only been taken over by the retailer, acting through
its own distinct wholesale units.'
In a realistic sense, therefore, most chain store organizations are merchandising institutions of a hybrid retailwholesale nature. They possess the essential characteristics of both the retailer and the wholesaler. Their
wholesale functions, which are integrated with but are
physically distinct from their retail functions, are performed through their warehouses and central offices. That
4 Does

Distribution Cost Too Much?, Twentieth Century Fund

(1939), pp. 81-85, 100-110, 178-181, 345-346; Beckman and Nolen,
The Chain Store Problem (1938), pp. 7-9, 42-61; 15 Encyclopaedia
of the Social Sciences (1935), pp. 411-416.
5"While it is frequently said that the function of wholesaling
is vital even though the wholesaler may not be in every line, some
amplification of this remark seems advisable. Some agency must provide the machinery to move all merchandise from the producer to the
retailer. Regardless of what this function is called, it is essentially
Chain stores, once they assume enough
the same as wholesaling....
importance to justify a warehouse, are engaged in wholesaling as
well as retailing. Whatever goods are handled at retail outlets must
be bought in quantity, handled in the warehouse and allotted to the

individual stores in much the same way that wholesalers would serve
the independent dealers." Chamber of Commerce of the United
States, National Wholesale Conference, Report of Committee I,
Wholesalers' Functions and Services (1929), pp. 13-14..

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

fact is the essential key to the problem presented by this
case. It serves to make clear the inapplicability of § 13
(a) (2) to petitioner's warehouse and central Office
employees.
Section 13 (a) (2) by its very terms exempts only those
employees engaged in a retail or service establishment
operating primarily in local commerce. Petitioner claims
that its retail stores, warehouse and central office together
constitute a "retail establishment" within the meaning
of this exemption. The lack of merit in this claim is
obvious. Even if, as petitioner urges, the word "establishment" referred to an entire business or enterprise, the
combined retail-wholesale nature of petitioner's interstate business would prevent it from properly being classified as a local "retail establishment." But if, as we
believe, Congress used the word "establishment" as it is
normally used in business and in government 6-as meaning a distinct physical place of business-petitioner's enterprise is composed of 49 retail establishments and a
single wholesale establishment. Since the employees in
question work in the wholesale establishment, § 13 (a)
(2) is plainly irrelevant.
Moreover, it is quite apparent from the sparse legislative history of § 13 (a) (2) that Congress did not intend to exempt as a "retail establishment" the warehouse
6 Prior to the adoption of the Fair Labor Standards Act the term
"establishment" was used in the sense of physical place of business
by many census reports, business analyses, administrative regulations,
and state taxing and regulatory statutes. As applied to chain store

systems, "establishment" thus described each unit in the chain. For
example,. under the N..R. A. Codes of Fair Competition, prepared
by.'committees from the industries concerned, retail stores of a
grocery chain' were subject to the Retail Food and Grocery Trade
Code, while the chain store warehouses and central offices were treated
as separate "establishments" subject to the ,Wholesale Food and

Grocery Trade Code... See .N. R. A. Codes of Fair.Competition,
Vol. IV, pp 460-1,,470,"and Vol 4V,.pp. 5-6i 13.14.
oi tin.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ments. Such tasks are completely unlike those pursued
by employees of the small local retailers, who were the
sole concern of Congress in § 13 (a) (2). These duties,
rather, are economically, functionally and physically like
those of the independent wholesaler's employees who,
when engaged in interstate commerce,, are admittedly
entitled to the benefits of the Act. We fail to perceive in
§ 13 (a) (2) or in its Congressional background any intent
to discriminate against chain store employees engaged in
wholesale activities or to give to chain store warehouses
a competitive advantage in labor costs over independent
wholesalers.
We are thus unable to say that the warehouse and central office employees of petitioner's interstate chain store
system plainly and unmistakably fall within either the
terms or the spirit of the exemption specified in § 13 (a)
(2). Economic facts, legal principles and consistent and
thorough administrative interpretation 8 of the exemption all compel the conclusion that § 13 (a) (2) is not applicable to the facts of this case. We therefore affirm the
judgment of the court below.
Affirmed.

The
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

JUSTICE JACKSON

and

concur in the result.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

dissents.

8See Interpretative Bulletin No. 6, United States Department of
Labor, Wage and Hour Division, originally issued in December, 1938,
and revised in Jund, 1941. See also First Annual Report of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department
of Labor (1940), p. 21, informing Congress that "each physically
separated store of a chain of stores will be considered a separate
'retail establishment.' The warehouses and central executive offices
of the chain are not 'retail establishments.'"

PHILLIPS CO. v. WALLING.
490

Opinion of the Court.

and central office of an interstate chain store system.
From the standpoint of its legislative ancestry, § 13 (a)
(2) is the offspring of a manifest desire to exclude from
the scope of the Act "business in the several States that
is of a purely local nature." Sen. Rep. 884, 75th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 5. Congress was interested in exempting those
regularly engaged in local retailing activities and those
employed by small local retail establishments, epitomized
by the corner grocery, the drug store and the department
store.' It felt that retail concerns of this nature do not
sufficiently influence the stream of interstate commerce
to warrant imposing the wage and hour requirements on
them. Ibid. p. 5. Section 13 (a) (2) is a part of the Act
only because of the fear that § 13 (a) (1), in exempting
employees regularly engaged in a "local retailing capacity," did not clearly exclude those employed by local retailers who are situated near state lines and who make
occasional interstate sales. Walling v. Jacksonville Paper
Co., 317 U. S. 564, 571.
Here petitioner's warehouse and central office employees are performing wholesale duties in the very midst
of the stream of interstate commerce. They constantly
deal with both incoming and outgoing interstate ship7 The original language of § 13 (a) (2), introduced as an amendment by Representative Celler, applied to any retail "industry."
Representative Celler stated that if the amendment were accepted
"retail dry goods, retail butchering, grocers, retail clothing stores,
department stores will all be exempt." Several other Congressmen
expressed their desire to assure the exemption of "the corner grocery
store man or the filling station man" and "the local groceryman, druggist, clothing store, meat dealer-any merchant in fact." 83 Cong.
Rec. 7299, 7436-7438. The exemption as it finally emerged from
the joint House-Senate conference committee applied to any retail
"establishment" rather than "industry." The use of the word "establishment" is more appropriate to the small local retailers which
Congress had in mind and clearly indicates that Congress meant by
it something less or different than "industry" or "enterprise."

