370

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

324 U. S.

when we have determined if the Northwestern Bands have
any claim "arising under or growing out of" the Box Elder
Treaty. Because I believe they have such a claim I would
reverse the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concur in this opinion.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE, COMMISSIONER
OF PATENTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 469. Argued March 2, 5, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. In this suit in equity under R. S. § 4915 to compel the Commissioner
of Patents to issue a patent upon an application for a subcombination of the elements of a machine, assumed to be a useful invention,
for which the claimant had previously filed a patent application, the
record fails to establish that the claimant intended to misuse the
patent on the subcombination or to make no use of the alleged invention, and the decision of the court below refusing on that ground
to order issuance of the patent was therefore erroneous. Pp. 374,
380.
2. A subcombination patent may legitimately be used as a means of
preventing appropriation by others of a combination invention which
the claimant is using, where there is absent any purpose to enlarge
the patent monopoly of either invention. P. 376.
A patent on a combination embodied in an inventor's complete
machine, without allowance of subcombination claims, would not
prevent free use of the subcombination. Hence denial of a patent
on the subcombination would deprive the inventor of the benefit of
the exclusive right to use the subcombination in the ways specified
by the patent laws. It would also leave the public free to use, and
thus to appropriate a part, however important, of the inventor's
complete machine, even though patented.
3. The statutes permit, and it is the settled practice of the Patent
Office to allow, subcombination as well as combination claims.
P. 377.
4. The patent grant is not of a right to the patentee to use the invention, but of the right to exclude others from using it. P. 378.
5. Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, lends no support to the contention that a patentee may not use his patent as a

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

Opinion of the Court.

protection against misappropriation of his invention, even though
the invention is not used. P. 379.
6. Petitioner's intended use of the subcombination patent to prevent
others from appropriating the alleged invention and by that means
from appropriating an essential part of the complete machine is in
no way inconsistent with petitioner's making other permissible uses
of the subcombination patent. P. 379.
144 F. 2d 497, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 697, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing the complaint in a suit under R. S.
§ 4915 to compel the Commissioner of Patents to issue a
patent.
Messrs. ClarenceJ. Loftus and Curtis F. Prangley, with
whom Messrs. James Ballard Moore and James M. Graves
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Abraham J.
Harriswere on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the District Court of
the District of Columbia, under R. S. § 4915, to compel
respondent, the Commissioner of Patents, to issue a patent
upon an application for a subcombination of the elements
of a machine for which the inventor had previously filed
a patent application. The district court gave judgment
for respondent. The Court of Appeals for the District
affirmed, 144 F. 2d 497, and we granted certiorari, 323
U. S. 697. The question is whether the Court of Appeals
correctly rested its decision upon the ground that petitioner did not intend to make or use the invention and that
the purpose of seeking the patent was to exploit and protect the combination invention embodied in the complete
machine, of which the subcombination is a part.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Ewald, the plaintiff in the district court in whose stead
petitioner, his assignee, was later substituted as a party,
made application for a patent on a "fruit-treating apparatus" embracing the combination embodied in his complete machine. Certain claims of his application were
allowed October 27, 1938, but a patent has not yet issued.
The following year he made a renewed application for the
subcombination, with which the present suit is concerned.
The specifications of the original application disclosed
mechanisms for automatically performing the successive
operations of bobbing (cutting off the stems), splitting;
paring, and coring pears, in preparation for canning or
other processing.
The original application specified and claimed an apparatus consisting of two spaced, horizontally mounted turrets or turntables, combined with means for continuously,
but intermittently, rotating both in the same direction.
Fixed upon and rotatable with the table of the first turret are a plurality of pear receiving and clamping means,
spaced upon the upper surface of the turntable, adapted
to receive and clamp either a pre-split or a whole pear.
At the first intermittent stop a swinging knife shears off
(bobs) the stem of the fruit, which extends beyond the
clamps. At the next intermittent stop, overhead traveling jaws or clamps grasp the fruit concurrently with its release from the first clamp and carry the fruit longitudinally to a point over the second turntable.
As the pear is thus carried from the first turret to a position over the second, it is split-by a fixed vertically positioned knife straddled by the overhead traveling clamps.
As the clamps force the pear against and past the knife, it
cleaves the pear into substantially equal half sections.
The pear sections are then automatically, successively
deposited in spaced cups fixed on the second revolving
turntable. At the next stop of that turntable the pear
section resting in its cup is peeled by an automatically

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

Opinion of the Court.

operated paring knife. At the next successive stop the
core is removed from the pear section by an automatically
operated coring device. After completing the coring, the
mechanism automatically separates the pear section from
the core and the peeling and discharges them and the pear
section into appropriate receptacles.
In the operation of the machine whole or split pears
may be fed by hand to the holding and clamping devices
on the first turret where the pears are bobbed. The whole
pear is then split as it is carried by the overhanging jaws
from the first turret to the second. The peeling and coring
of both pre-split and whole pears are then carried through
by the operation of the second turret.
The patent application for the complete machine discloses a highly ingenious device, which is said to have
achieved a great advance in the art by increasing the speed
and skill with which pears are prepared for canning, and
to result in a great saving of manpower. The renewed
application for the subcombination specifies and claims
the apparatus which we have described but without the
splitting knife. In the operation of the device thus
claimed the pears are pre-split by hand. The split sections are placed face to face in the receiving and clamping
means upon the first turntable, after which the operation,
except the splitting by the splitting knife, proceeds in
exactly the same way and accomplishes the same result
as when the splitting knife is present.
Additional claims, which are those sued on, covering all
the elements of the combination except the splitting knife,
were duly presented to the Patent Office. There they were
rejected as incomplete, broader than the invention disclosed by the petitioner in his application, and misleading,
and as covering constructions not contemplated by petitioner's application. Respondent Commissioner, alleging
no prior art against the allowance of the claims, set up
these objections in his answer in the district court as the
637582--46--28

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

sole grounds of defense to the suit. The district court
sustained the Commissioner on the grounds assigned by
him for rejection of the claims, and for the further reason
that the subcombination claims did not "combine to produce any useful result."
The Court of Appeals, after observing the operation of
petitioner's subcombination without the cutting knife, as
shown by moving pictures, concluded that the device was
far more useful in its operation than the old method of
preparing fruit by hand, and, without deciding the point,
added that it was plausible to say "that two distinct
inventions are disclosed in the application."
Without further examination of the issues raised by the
pleadings, it affirmed the judgment of the district court
upon the new and independent ground that a patent on
the subcombination should not be granted because of "the
dangers of approving a principle which permits a patent
monopoly to be extended by granting claims on distinct
inventions, which the applicant has no intention of exploiting as distinct inventions." It said: "The record
shows that it [the subcombination patent] is to be used
to exploit and protect the patent monopoly of another
related invention, to-wit: the complete machine. There
is no intention to make or license others to make the
partial machine because, although it is possible to use
it without the cutting knife, it is not designed for such independent use." It thought that the grant of a patent
which the patentee has no intention of exploiting as a
distinct invention "for the purpose of blocking the development of machines which might be constructed by
others," is inconsistent with the constitutional requirement that the patent grant must "promote the Progress
of Science and useful Arts."
We are pointed to no factual basis in the record for the
assertion that petitioner contemplates either the misuse
or non-use of the combination patent, other than that

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

375

Opinion of the Court.

suggested in the court's opinion that the complete machine
does the work better than the subcombination, without
the knife, can do it and that there would be no reason
to manufacture the partial machine when the complete
machine was available. A separate opinion in which all
the judges concurred also states that petitioner "admitted, both on argument and in its brief in the present
case, that its purpose in filing the disputed claims was
to 'protect' the main invention and that it had no intention of manufacturing the subcombination machine."
The reference, as agreed by counsel on the argument before us, is to a statement in petitioner's brief in the court
below that: "The claims in issue are sought purely to prevent appropriation of the . . . machine by the obvious
expedient of eliminating the splitting mechanism." It
will be observed that this statement of petitioner is not of
a purpose either to suppress the use of the patented
invention or to use it or the patent to exploit or enlarge the
patent monopoly of the complete machine.
The court below found support for its conclusion in our
decisions holding that a patentee may not enlarge the
monopoly of his patent by licensing his invention on terms
or conditions which tie to its use the use of material or
devices which the licensed invention does not embrace,
whether they are patented, Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v.
United States, 309 U. S. 436, 459; Standard SanitaryMfg.
Co. v. United States, 226 I. S. 20, or unpatented,
Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.,
243 U. S. 502; United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United
States, 258 U. S. 451; Carbice Corporationv. American
Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Leitch Manufacturing Co.
v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458.
It is clear that no such case is presented here. We find
nothing in the statement quoted from petitioner's brief
in the court below or in the record to indicate that petitioner proposes to make any such use of the patent which

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

it now seeks, either by the method of licensing it or otherwise. The statement expresses only a purpose to prevent
appropriation of the complete machine by the appropriation of a part of it embodied in the subcombination for
which the patent is asked. There is nothing to suggest
any purpose or reason for a purpose to enlarge the monopoly either of the subcombination or of the complete machine by tying together their uses. Control of a part
could not be used as a means of enlarging an already acquired control of the whole. And, obviously, licensing
the subcombination, which is less useful than the whole,
would not, in any circumstances disclosed by the record,
be a practical means of enlarging the use of the whole.
Failure to acquire control of the whole would be a legitimate reason for wishing to acquire and retain control of
a part, if it involves a patentable invention. And we
think it plainly is legitimate to use a patent on the subcombination as a means of preventing appropriation by
others of petitioner's more important complete invention which he is using, where there is absent, as there
is here, any purpose to enlarge the monopoly of either
invention.
A patent on the combination embodied in the complete machine, without the allowance of the subcombination claims, would not, as the court below thought, prevent
the free use of the subcombination. Corn-PlanterPatent,
23 Wall. 181, 224; Schumacher v. Cornell, 96 U. S. 549,
554; Rowell v. Lindsay, 113 U. S. 97, 101; Mercoid Corp.
v. Mid-Continent Co., 320 U. S. 661, 668. Hence denial
of a patent on the subcombination would deprive the
inventor of the benefit of the exclusive right to use the
subcombination in the ways specified by the patent laws.
It would also leave the public free to use, and thus to
appropriate a part, however important, of the inventor's
complete machine, even though patented.

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

Opinion of the Court.

If, as we must assume, petitioner has two inventions,
both of which are useful and one of which includes the
other in its entirety, it is evident that the value of the
former would be greatly impaired if the subcombination
invention could be freely used by others. See Deering v.
Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S. 286, 302. But such
appropriation or impairment of the value of the full
combination could be achieved only by appropriation of
the unpatented subcombination which is by hypothesis
also a useful invention, entitled to claim the benefit and
protection of the patent laws.
The statutes permit, and it is the settled practice of the
Patent Office, many times sustained by this Court, to
allow, claims to a combination and also its subcombinations. Philadelphia,IV.& B. R. Co. v. Dubois, 12 Wall.
47, 60; Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, supra; Leeds
& Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S.
301, 318; Altoona Theatres v. Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S.
477, 487; Mercoid Corp.v. Mid-Continent Co., supra,667.
The question then is whether, without more, the use of
the subcombination patent to prevent appropriation of
the complete machine so infringes any provisions or principles of the patent laws, or is so contrary to principles
governing the award of equitable relief, as to permit the
court to refuse the judgment, which the statute authorizes,
directing that the patent issue.
In answering it the court below assumed that such purpose to protect the whole invention was to be achieved by
complete suppression of the use of the subcombination invention and that the suppression for the protection of the
complete machine would invalidate the patent because it
would be contrary to the constitutional purpose and to
the spirit if not the letter of the patent laws. We think
both assumptions are unwarranted. Section 4886 of the
Revised Statutes authorizes "any person who has in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

vented.
any new and useful . . . machine" to "obtain
a patent." The patent grant is not of a right to the
patentee to use the invention, for that he already possesses. It is a grant of the right to exclude others from
using it. As the statute, R. S. § 4884, provides, the grant
is of the "exclusive right to make, use, and vend" the
invention, and this includes the exclusive right to license
others to make, use and vend it. By the very terms of
the statute the grant is nothing more than a means of
preventing others, except under license from the patentee,
from appropriating his invention.
It by no means follows that such a grant is an inconsistent or inappropriate exercise of the constitutional authority of Congress "to promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts" by securing to inventors "the exclusive Right
to their . . . Discoveries." Congress, in the choice of
means of promoting the useful arts by patent grants, could
have provided that the grant should be conditioned upon
the use of the patented invention, as in fact it did provide
by the Act of 1832 (4 Stat. 577) authorizing the issue of
patents to aliens conditioned upon the use of the invention, which provision was later repealed (5 Stat. 117, 125).
But Congress was aware that an unpatented invention
could be suppressed and the public thus deprived of all
knowledge or benefit of it. It could have concluded that
the useful arts would be best promoted by compliance with
the conditions of the statutes which it did enact, which
require that patents be granted only for a limited term
upon an application fully disclosing the invention and the
manner of making and using it. It thus gave to the inventor limited opportunity to gather material rewards for
his invention and secured to the public the benefits of full
knowledge of the invention and the right to use it upon
the expiration of the patent.
This Court has consistently held that failure of the patentee to make use of a patented invention does not affect

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

Opinion of the Court.

the validity of the patent. Continental Paper Bag Co.
v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405; Crown Die &
Tool Co. v. Nye Tool Works, 261 U. S. 24, 34; Woodbridge v. United States, 263 U. S. 50, 55; Fox Film Corp.
v. Doyal, 286 U. S. 123, 127; Hartford-Empire Co. v.
United States, 323 U. S. 386, 433. No question of non-use
was involved in Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States,
supra, 459, on which the court below relied, and it lends
no support to the contention that a patentee may not
rightly use his patent as a protection against misappropriation of his invention, even though it is not used. There
it was held only that the monopoly of a patent afforded
no defense for violations of the Sherman Act which the
patentee had effected by using his patent to enlarge the
patent monopoly beyond the grant and as a means of increasing the use of an independent patented invention.
Congress has frequently been asked to change the policy
of the statutes as interpreted by this Court by imposing
a forfeiture ' or providing for compulsory licensing 2 if
the patent is not used within a specified time, but has not
done so.
We have no occasion to consider here whether a better
rule governing the grant of patents could be devised than
that prescribed by Congress, as this Court has interpreted
it; or whether the courts on equitable principles should
decline to enjoin patent infringements or decline to compel the issue of a patent if and when it appears that the
patentee or inventor intends to make no use of the invention. The record neither calls upon nor permits us to
decide any-of these questions, for it fails to establish that
petitioner has any such intenition. Petitioner's intended
use of the 'patent to prevent others from appropriating it
and by that means from appropriating an essential part of
'See Hartford-Empire Co. v. United States, supra, 433, n. 26.
2
See Hartford-Empire Co. v. United States, supra, n. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

his complete machine is in no way inconsistent with petitioner's making other permissible uses of the subcombination patent. In fact, he does use the subcombination
as a part of his completed machine and proposes to continue to use it. Execution of his declared purpose to prevent appropriation of either of his inventions, whether
used separately or together, would not prevent his licensing others to make, use and vend the subcombination, on
terms which would adequately protect the value of the
monopoly of both his inventions to which he is entitled by
the patent laws. And we cannot say that others, who
could not secure a license to use the complete machine,
would not find it profitable to secure, or that petitioner
would not find it profitable to grant, licenses to use the
subcombination which the court below has found to be a
useful device which has advanced the art.
The record establishes no intention by petitioner not to
use his invention, and no proposed use of it disclosed or
suggested by the record affords any basis for withholding
the grant of the patent. The judgment below must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Court of
Appeals for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion to enable it to consider and decide the issues raised by
the pleadings. See Bates v. United States, 323 U. S. 15,
17 and cases cited.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting.

The right of suppression of a patent came into the law
over a century after the first patent act was passed. In
1886 Judge Blodgett had ruled that a patentee "is bound
either to use the patent himself or allow others to use it
on reasonable or equitable terms." Hoe v. Knap, 27 F.
204, 212. In 1896 that rule was repudiated by the Circuit

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Heaton-Peninsular Button-Fastener Co. v. Eureka Specialty Co., 77 F.
288, 295, where the court stated that a patentee's "title is
exclusive, and so clearly within the constitutional provisions in respect of private property that he is neither
bound to use his discovery himself, nor permit others to
use it." That theory was adopted by this Court in Continental PaperBag Co. v. EasternPaper Bag Co., 210 U. S.
405, decided in 1908. That was an infringement suit.
One defense was that the patentee had suppressed the
patent. The Court held, Mr. Justice Harlan dissenting,
that suppression of the patent was no defense; that the
patentee's "right can only retain its attribute of exclusiveness by a prevention of its violation." Id., p. 430.
I think it is time to be rid of that rule. It is inconsistent
with the Constitution and the patent legislation which
Congress has enacted.
Article I, § 8 of the Constitution grants Congress the
power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts,
by securing for limited times to authors and inventors
the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries." Of the various enumerated powers it is the only
one which states the purpose of the authority granted
Congress. "The Congress is given no general power to
issue letters patent or to reward inventors as it will. An
experience with grants of monopoly in England was fresh
in the minds of the Fathers; the lesson had been underlined in recent differences with the Crown." Hamilton,
Patents and Free Enterprise (1941), p. 152, Temporary
National Economic Committee, Monograph No. 31, 76th
Cong., 3d Sess. The purpose "to promote the progress of
science and useful arts" accordingly provides the standards for the exercise of the power and sets the limits beyond which it may not go. That purpose also provides

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

the guide for the interpretation of patent laws enacted
pursuant to that power.
It is a mistake therefore to conceive of a patent as but
another form of private property. The patent is a privilege "conditioned by a public purpose." Mercoid Corp.
v. Mid-Continent Co., 320 U. S. 661, 666. The public purpose is "to promote the progress of science and useful arts."
The exclusive right of the inventor is but the means to that
end. That was early recognized by this Court. See Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 19; Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How.
322, 327-328; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 533-534.

But the Paper Bag case marked a radical departure from
that theory. It treated the "exclusive" right of the
inventor as something akin to an "absolute" right.
It subordinated the public purpose of the grant to the
self-interest of the patentee.
The result is that suppression of patents has become
commonplace. Patents are multiplied to protect an economic barony or empire, not to put new discoveries to use
for the common good.' "It is common practice to make
an invention and to secure a patent to block off a competitor's progress. By studying his ware and developing
an improvement upon it, a concern may 'fence in' its rival;
by a series of such moves, it may pin the trade enemy
within a technology which rapidly becomes obsolete. As
often as not such maneuvers retard, rather than promote,
the progress of the useful arts. Invariably their effect is to
enlarge and to prolong personal privilege within the public domain." Hamilton, op. cit., supra,p. 161. One patent
is used merely to protect another. The use of a new patent is suppressed so as to preclude experimentation which
illustrations see Investigation of Concentration of Economic
Power, Hearings, Temporary National Economic Committee, Pt. 2
(1939), pp. 345, 776; Hamilton, op. cit., supra, pp. 46-47, 59.
1 For

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

might result in further invention by competitors 2 A
whole technology is blocked off. The result is a clog to
our economic machine and a barrier to an economy of
abundance.
It is difficult to see how that use of patents can be reconciled with the purpose of the Constitution "to promote
the progress of science and the useful arts." Can the suppression of patents which arrests the progress of technology be said to promote that progress? It is likewise difficult to see how suppression of patents can be reconciled
with the provision of the statute which authorizes a grant
of the "exclusive right to make, use, and vend the invention or discovery." Rev. Stat. § 4884, 35 U. S. C. § 40.
How may the words "to make, use, and vend" be read to
mean "not to make, not to use, and not to vend"? Take
the case of an invention or discovery which unlocks the
doors of science and reveals the secrets of a dread disease.
Is it possible that a patentee could be permitted to suppress that invention for seventeen years (the term of the
letters patent) and withhold from humanity the benefits
of the cure? But there is no difference in principle between that case and any case where a patent is suppressed
because of some immediate advantage to the patentee.
I think it is time to return to the earlier, and I think the
true, philosophy of the patent system. We should not pass
on to Congress the duty to remove the private perquisites
which we have engrafted on the patent laws. This Court
The vice is the same as the practice, consistently condemned by
this Court, of writing into the claims broad, general specifications.
As stated by Mr. Justice Bradley in Carlton v. Bokee, 17 Wall. 463,
471-472, "We think it proper to reiterate our disapprobation of these
ingenious attempts to expand a simple invention of a distinct device
into an all-embracing claim, calculated by its wide generalizations
and ambiguous language to discourage further invention in the same
2

department of industry .

..

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

was responsible for their creation. This Court should take
the responsibility for their removal. I would adopt the
view of Hoe v. Knap, supra. In a case like the present
(Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 61), as in infringement
suits (Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, 492494), the Court sits as a court of equity. It should withhold its aid from a patentee who has employed or plans to
employ the patent not to exploit the invention but to
suppress it in order to protect another patent or otherwise.' Cf. Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S.
436, 459. If that purpose were clear, a patent should not
issue in the first instance. If it has been issued and not
cancelled and the patent has been suppressed, any one
should be permitted to use it at least on payment of reasonable royalties. In that way the constitutional objective will be more nearly realized-the product of the inventive genius of the human mind will be put to work in
the economy.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

I would affirm the judgment. But I do not reach the interesting and important questions debated by the Court's
opinion and my dissenting brethren. They are of such a
character that, in my opinion, they should not be determined in the absence of a record presenting facts and issues making this necessary. In this case the facts do not
so clearly present the issues of "fencing" and "blocking"
that decision upon them is required or appropriate.
Those issues were not raised or considered until the case
reached the Court of Appeals. Evidence concerning intent to suppress was not received in the District Court and
8 These situations are to be distinguished from the case of the inventor who though he has an expectation of exploiting the patent has
not yet arranged the necessary financing, or, for other reasons, has not
yet been able to go into production.

SPECIAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COE.
370

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

petitioner is entitled to its day in court upon that question, unless it has conceded it. The record, as this Court's
opinion indicates, is not clear that the concession has been
made with the effect of admitting that petitioner had no
intention to exploit the patent. If, as the trial court
found, the machine without the splitting knife would not
"produce any useful result," this fact together with the
assertion of the claims relating to the full combination, or
with it and the concessions apparently made in the Court
of Appeals, might be sufficient to sustain that court's
conclusion that the only purpose of the alleged invention
was to "fence" or "block." But the Court of Appeals expressly rejected the trial court's finding in this respect;
and a showing of motion pictures here, such as took place
in the Court of Appeals, appeared to demonstrate conclusively that the machine not only works without the
cutting knife, but produces a highly useful result if the
pears are split before being placed in the machine for
bobbing, peeling and coring. Whatever foundation might
have been found, therefore, to support the conclusion of
intent to fence or block, in the machine's lack of capacity
to produce any useful result, disappears from the case.
The record, however, discloses another ground which
was considered in the Patent Office and the District Court,
wholly sufficient to dispose of the case and requiring
affirmance of the judgment. This was that the claims in
issue are too broad to cover the invention. No one of the
claims specifies or indicates that the pears must be presplit in order for the invention to be used or to produce
a useful result. With commendable candor, counsel conceded this in the argument here, and indeed the claims on
their face require the concession. Patents are not to be
granted upon claims which do not accurately describe the
invention and all of its essential features. These claims
are stated in language broad enough to include whole

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

324 U. S.

pears. Admittedly the machine will not work, without
the knife, as to them. In my judgment therefore the
claims are too broad. The Patent Office and the District
Court so found. The question is open and was presented
in the Court of Appeals and here. Accordingly I would
affirm the judgment.

UNITED STATES v. COMMODORE PARK, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 495. Argued February 9, 1945.-Decided March 26, 1945.
1. An owner of land in the bed of a navigable stream between high
and low water mark, though his title is recognized by the State, is
not entitled to compensation from the United States for a decrease
in the value of the land resulting from operations by the United
States for the improvement of navigation. P. 390.
2. A riparian owner whose fast lands were not invaded is not entitled
to compensation from the United States for a decrease, resulting from
operations by the United States for the improvement of navigation,
in such value as his lands may have had by reason of their proximity
to navigable waters. P. 390.
3. A project pursuant to which a navigable water was dredged and
the dredged material was deposited in a connecting navigable water,
though originated for the improvement of shore facilities and though
navigation of the connecting water was thereby blocked, was an integrated project which bore a substantial relation to commerce or
navigation, and the rule of governmental non-liability was applicable.
P. 391.
4. The constitutional power of the federal government to regulate
commerce may be exercised to block navigation at one place in order
to aid it at another. P. 393.
143 F. 2d 720, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 698, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the plaintiff in a suit against the United
States under the Tucker Act.

