U. S. v. FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES.

293

Syllabus.

282

I think the statute turns the power to impose the death
penalty upon facts so vaguely defined that only judicial
legislation can remedy the defect. This is not the kind
of thing courts should be left to work out case by case
through the "gradual process of inclusion and exclusion."
This business rather belongs to Congress, not to the courts.
As the Court's opinion states, though I think in contradiction of its judgment, "It is for Congress and not for us to
decide whether it is wise public policy to inflict the death
penalty at all." Congress' mandate in such matters must
be clear; otherwise we, not Congress, decide. In this one
it is beyond understanding.
I would vacate the judgment and remand the cause for
the petitioner to be resentenced.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY joins in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES,

INC.
NO. 523.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 8, 1945.-Decided March 5, 1945.
1. A conspiracy of producers, wholesalers and retailers to fix and
maintain retail prices of alcoholic beverages shipped into a State,
by adoption of a single course in making contracts of sale and boycotting others who would not conform, held a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. P. 296.
2. Neither the Miller-Tydings Amendment of the Sherman Act nor
the Colorado Fair Trade Act permits combinations of businessmen
to coerce others into making "fair trade" contracts. P. 296.
*Together with No. 524, United States v. National Distillers Products Corp.; No. 525, United States v. Brown FormanDistillers Corp.;
No. 526, United States v. Hiram Walker, Inc.; No. 527, United States
v. Schenley Distillers Corp.; No. 528, United States v. Seagram-Distillers Corp.; No. 529, United States v. McKesson & Robbins, Inc.;
and No. 530, United States v. Speegle, also on certiorari to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.
637582'--46-----23

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

3. The fact that the ultimate object of the conspiracy was the fixing
or maintenance of local retail prices did not render the Sherman
Act inapplicable. P. 298.
4. The Twenty-First Amendment of the Constitution does not preclude prosecution of the violation of the Sherman Act here alleged.
P. 299.
5. The Twenty-First Amendment conferred upon the States broad
regulatory power over the liquor traffic within their boundaries,
but did not give the States plenary and exclusive power to regulate the conduct of persons doing an interstate liquor business.

P. 299.
144 F. 2d 824, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 699, to review the reversal of a
conviction, 47 F. Supp. 160, of violation of the Sherman
Antitrust Act.

Mr. EdwardH. Levi, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy,
Assistant Attorney General Berge, Messrs. Charles H.
Weston and Matthias N. Orfield were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Robert S. Marx, with whom Messrs. Thomas Kiernan,Newell W. Ellison, A. H. Stuart, C. FrankReavis and
George R. Beneman were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondents are producers, wholesalers, and retailers,
of alcoholic beverages, who were indicted in a federal district court for having conspired and combined to restrain
commerce in violation of ยง 1 of the Sherman Act as
amended. 26 Stat. 209; 50 Stat. 693. Their demurrers
and motion to quash having been overruled, respondents
pleaded nolo contendere to one count of the indictment.
On these pleas they were adjudged guilty by the District
Court and fined. 47 F. Supp. 160. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed, On the ground that the indictment failed
to show that the conspiracy charged was in restraint of

U. S. v. FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES.
293

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce. 144 F. 2d 824. The importance of
the questions involved prompted us to grant certiorari.'
The indictment alleged that 98% of the spirituous
liquors and 80% of the wines consumed in Colorado were
shipped there from other states. The annual shipments
into the state were 1,150,000 gallons of liquors and 800,000
gallons of wine. Seventy-five percent of these beverages
were handled by the defendant wholesalers. Respondents
were charged with conspiring, in violation of the Sherman
Act, to raise, fix and maintain the retail prices of all
these beverages by raising, fixing, and stabilizing retail
markups and margins of profit.
To accomplish the objects of the conspiracy, it is alleged
that they adopted the following course of action. All of
the respondents agreed amongst themselves to (1) discuss, agree upon and adopt arbitrary non-competitive retail prices, markups, and margins of profit; (2) defendant
retailers and wholesalers agreed to persuade and compel
producers to enter into fair trade contracts on every type
and brand of alcoholic beverage shipped into the state,
thereby to establish arbitrarily high and non-competitive
retail markups and margins of profit, agreed upon by defendants; (3) the retailers were to prepare and adopt
forms of fair trade contracts, and agree with producers
and wholesalers upon these forms; (4) a boycott program
was adopted by all of the defendants under which retailers
would refuse to buy any of the beverages sold by wholesalers or producers who refused to enter into or enforce
compliance with the terms of the price-fixing agreements,
and non-complying retailers would be denied an opportunity to buy the goods of the defendant producers and
wholesalers. Machinery was set up to make the boycott
program effective.
1323 U. S. 699.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

The facts alleged in the indictment, which stand admitted on demurrer, and on the plea of nolo contendere,
indicate a pattern which bears all the earmarks of a traditional restraint of trade. The participants are producers,
middlemen, and retailers. They have agreed among themselves to adopt a single course in making contracts of sale
and to boycott all others who would not adopt the same
course.
The effect, and if it were material, the purpose of the
combination charged, was to fix prices at an artificial level.
Such combinations, affecting commerce among the states,
tend to eliminate competition, and violate the Sherman
Act per se. United States v. Socony Vacuum Co., 310
U. S. 150, 223-224. Price maintenance contracts fall
under the same ban, Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United
States, 309 U. S. 436, 458, except as provided by the 1937
Miller-Tydings Amendment to the Sherman Act. 50
Stat. 693. The combination charged against respondents
does not fall within this exception. It permits the seller of
an article which bears his trade mark, brand, or name, to
prescribe a minimum resale price by contract, if such contracts are lawful in the state where the resale is to be made
and if the trade-marked article is in free and open competition with other articles of the same commodity. This
type of "Fair Trade" price maintenance contract is lawful
in Colorado. Session Laws of Colorado, 1937, Chap. 146.
But the Miller-Tydings Amendment to the Sherman Act
does not permit combinations of businessmen to coerce
others into making such contracts, and Colorado has not
attempted to grant such permission. Both the federal and
state "Fair Trade" Acts expressly provide that they shall
not apply to price maintenance contracts among producers, wholesalers and competitors. It follows that whatever may be the rights of an individual producer under
the Miller-Tydings Amendment to make price maintenance contracts or to refuse to sell his goods to those who

U. S. v. FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES.
293

297

Opinion of the Court.

will not make such contracts, a combination to compel
price maintenance in commerce among the states violates
the Sherman Act. United States v. Bausch & Lomb Co.,
321 U. S. 707, 719-723. United States v. Univis Lens Co.,
316 U. S. 241, 252-253. Consequently, respondents were
properly convicted, unless as they argue, their conduct
is not covered by the Sherman Act, either because the
price fixing applied only to retail sales which were wholly
intrastate, or because the state's power to control the
liquor traffic within its boundaries makes the Sherman
Act inapplicable.
These two questions thus posed relate to the extent of
the Sherman Act's application to trade restraints resulting from actions which take place within a state. In resolving them, there is an obvious distinction to be drawn
between a course of conduct wholly within a state and
conduct which is an inseparable element of a larger prograin dependent for its success upon activity which affects commerce between the states. It is true that this
Court has on occasion determined that local conduct
could be insulated from the operation of the Anti-Trust
laws on the basis of the purely local aims of a combination, insofar as those aims were not motivated by the purpose of restraining commerce, and where the means used
to achieve the purpose did not directly touch upon interstate commerce. The cases relied upon by respondents 2
fall within this category. All of them involved the application of the Anti-Trust laws to combinations of businessmen or workers in labor disputes, and not to interstate
commercial transactions. On the other hand, the sole
ultimate object of respondents' combination in the in2

Industrial Association of San Franciscov. United States, 268 U. S.

64; Levering & GarriguesCo. v. Morrin,289 U. S. 103; United Leather
Workers v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S. 457; cf. Local 167
v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 297, and United States v. Hutcheson,
312 U. S. 219.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

stant case was price fixing or price maintenance. And
with reference to commercial trade restraints such as
these, Congress, in passing the Sherman Act, left no
area of its constitutional power unoccupied; it "exercised
all the power it possessed." Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader,
310 U. S. 469, 495.
The fact that the ultimate object of the conspiracy
charged was the fixing or maintenance of local retail
prices, does not of itself remove it from the scope of the
Sherman Act; retail outlets have ordinarily been the object of illegal price maintenance.8 Whatever was the
ultimate object of this conspiracy, the means adopted for
its accomplishment reached beyond the boundaries of
Colorado. The combination concerned itself with the
type of contract used in making interstate sales; its coercive power was used to compel the producers of alcoholic
beverages outside of Colorado to enter into price-maintenance contractA. Nor did the boycott used merely affect
local retail business. Local purchasing power was the
weapon used to force producers making interstate sales to
fix prices against their will. It may be true, as has been
argued, that under Colorado law, retailers are prohibited
from buying from out-of-state producers, but this fact has
no relevancy. The power of retailers to coerce out-ofstate producers can be just as effectively exercised
through pressure brought to bear upon wholesalers as
though the retailers brought such pressure to bear directly upon the producers. And combinations to restrain,
by a boycott of those engaged in interstate commerce,
through such indirect coercion is prohibited by the Sherman Act.'
8 See, e. g., Dr.Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373,
404; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436; United
States v. Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241, 244, 245.
'Fashion Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade Commission, 312
U. S. 457, 465; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.

U. S. v. FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES.
293

299

Opinion of the Court.

It is argued that the Twenty-first Amendment to the
Constitution bars this prosecution. That Amendment bestowed upon the states broad regulatory power over the
liquor traffic within their territories.5 It has not given the
states plenary and exclusive power to regulate the conduct of persons doing an interstate liquor business outside their boundaries. Granting the state's full authority
to determine the conditions upon which liquor can come
into its territory and what will be done with it after it
gets there, it does not follow from that fact that the United
States is wholly without power to regulate the conduct
of those who engage in interstate trade outside the jurisdiction of the State of Colorado.
The Sherman Act is not being enforced in this case in
such manner as to conflict with the law of Colorado.
Those combinations which the Sherman Act makes illegal
as to producers, wholesalers and retailers are expressly exempted from the scope of the Fair Trade Act of Colorado,
and thus have no legal sanction under state law either.'
We therefore do not have here a case in which the Sherman Act is applied to defeat the policy of the state. That
would raise questions of moment which need not be decided until they are presented. The judgment of the Cir5 Carterv. Virginia, 321 U. S. 131; Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308 U. S.
132, 138; State Board v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59.
The Colorado Fair Trade Act, 1937 Col. Session Laws, Ch. 146,
provides that under certain conditions sellers of commodities can
contract with buyers not to resell, and to require subsequent purchasers not to resell, at less than the minimum price stipulated by the
seller. But that Act specifically provides that it shall not apply to
horizontal agreements, "to any contract or agreement between or
among producers or between or among wholesalers or between or
among retailers as to sale or resale prices." The Colorado Unfair
Practices Act, 1941 Col. Session Laws, Ch. 227, amending and reenacting 1937 Col. Session Laws, Ch. 261, makes it unlawful to sell goods
below cost to injure or destroy competition, and states that the express purpose of the Act is "to safeguard the public against . .
monopolies and to foster and encourage competition."

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

324 U. S.

cuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District
Court is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

The Twenty-first Amendment made a fundamental
change, as to control of the liquor traffic, in the constitutional relations between the States and national authority.
Before that Amendment--disregarding the interlude of
the Eighteenth Amendment-alcohol was for constitutional purposes treated in the abstract as an article of
commerce just like peanuts and potatoes. As a result, the
power of the States to control the liquor traffic was subordinated to the right of free trade across state lines as
embodied in the Commerce Clause. The Twenty-first
Amendment reversed this legal situation by subordinating
rights under the Commerce Clause to the power of a State
to control, and to control effectively, the traffic in liquor
within its borders. The course of legal history which made
necessary the Twenty-first Amendment in order to permit
the States to control the liquor traffic, according to their
notions of policy freed from the restrictions upon state
power which the Commerce Clause implies as to ordinary
articles of commerce, was summarized in my concurring
opinion in Carterv. Virginia, 321 U. S. 131, 139.
As a matter of constitutional law, the result of the
Twenty-first Amendment is that a State may erect any
barrier it pleases to the entry of intoxicating liquors. Its
barrier may be low, high, or insurmountable. Of course,
if a State chooses not to exercise the power given it by
the Twenty-first Amendment and to continue to treat intoxicating liquors like other articles, the operation of the
Commerce Clause continues. Since the Commerce Clause

U. S. v. FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES.
293

FRANKFURTER,

301

J., concurring.

is subordinate to the exercise of state power under the
Twenty-first Amendment, the Sherman Law, deriving its
authority from the Commerce Clause, can have no greater
potency than the Commerce Clause itself. It must equally
yield to state power drawn from the Twenty-first Amendment. And so, the validity of a charge under the Sherman
Law relating to intoxicating liquors depends upon the
utilization by a State of its constitutional power under
the Twenty-first Amendment. If a State for its own sufficient reasons deems it a desirable policy to standardize
the price of liquor within its borders either by a direct.
price-fixing statute or by permissive sanction of such pricefixing in order to discourage the temptations of cheap
liquor due to cutthroat competition, the Twenty-first
Amendment gives it that power and the Commerce Clause
does not gainsay it. Such state policy can not offend the
Sherman Law even though distillers or middlemen agree
with local dealers to respect this policy. If an agreement
among local dealers not to buy liquor through channels
of interstate commerce does not offend the Sherman Law
though a like agreement as to other commodities would,
an agreement among liquor dealers to abide by state policy
for a uniform price-which is far less restrictive of interstate commerce than a comprehensive boycott--can
hardly be a violation of the Sherman Law.
Thus the question in this case, as I see it, is whether in
fact the policy of Colorado sanctions such an arrangement
as the indictment charges. Such a policy may be expressed
either formally by legislation or by implied permission.
Unless state policy is voiced either by legislation or by state
court decisions, it is precarious business for an outsider to
be confident about the legal policy of a State. So far as
our attention has been called to materials relevant for
ascertaining the policy of Colorado toward such a price
arrangement as is here charged, it would be temerarious to
suggest that Colorado does sanction it. Indeed, the leg-

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

324 U. S.

islation of Colorado looks in the opposite direction. And
we have no guidance from state decisions to suggest that
the apparent condemnation of such an arrangement under
the Colorado Fair Trade Act, ยง2, Colo. Stat. Ann., ch. 165,
ยง 20 (2), does not condemn the price arrangements before
us. Although the Attorney General of Colorado has filed
a brief as amicus curiae on the side of the respondents,
his argument is not based on the contention that the
policy of Colorado sanctions that which it is claimed the
Sherman Law forbids. In the view I take of the matter,
if a State authorized the transactions here complained of,
the Sherman Law could not override such exercise of state
power. For, in any event, if state policy did so authorize
it, conformity with the state policy could not be deemed
an "unreasonable" restraint of interstate commerce. But
I do not find that Colorado has done so.
The decision of the court below is not without support
in what has been said in the past in holding that, apart
from the Twenty-first Amendment, this was a restraint
local in its nature and therefore outside the scope of the
Sherman Law. But price-fixing is such an immediate restraint upon trade that I do not think that the reach of
the consequences of such an obvious restraint should be
determined by drawing too nice lines as a matter of pleading. The case is before us, in effect, on demurrer to the
indictment and judged abstractly, as a matter of pleading,
I cannot say that the indictment was demurrable.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in this opinion.

