OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
324 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 2. APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.*

Decided April 2, 1945.
1. Upon review of a decree of the district court in a suit brought by
the United States for violation of the Sherman Act, this Court,
though it affirms the district court's findings as to violation of the
Act, may modify provisions of the decree.

P. 571.

2. The opinion heretofore rendered by this Court in these cases (Hartford-Empire Co. v. United States, 323 U. S. 386) is here added to
and clarified in several particulars. P. 571.
UPON PETITION

by the United States for clarification or

reconsideration of Hartford-EmpireCo. v. United States,
323 U. S. 386.
Solicitor General Fahy for the United States.
Messrs. John T. Cahill, Thurlow M. Gordon, Stuart S.
Wall and Jerrold G. Van Cise for the Hartford-Empire
Co. et al.; Mr. Boykin C. Wright for the Corning Glass
Works; Messrs. Robert T. Swaine, Lloyd T. Williams,
Henry A. Middleton and George B. Turner for the OwensIllinois Glass Co. et al.; Messrs. Stephen H. Philbin and

Joseph D. Stecher for the Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. et al.;
and Messrs. Arnold Boyd and Hamilton Vreeland, Jr. for

the Knox Companies.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Subsequent to the announcement of the decision of the
court in the above cases, the United States filed a petition

for clarification or reconsideration.
*Together with No. 3, Corning Glass Works et al. v. United States;

No. 4, Owens-Illinois Glass Co. et al. v. United States; No. 5, HazelAtlas Glass Co. et al. v. United States; No. 6, Thatcher Manufacturing
Co. et al. v. United States; and No. 7, Lynch Corporation et al. v.
United States, also on appeals from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
570

Opinion of the Court.

We have no occasion to reconsider the opinion as respects the necessity for modification of the decree entered
by the District Court. In the many cases which have
come here for review of decrees in suits brought by the
Government for violation of the Sherman Law, it has
never been suggested that this court must accept the decree fashioned by the trial court, if we affirm that court's
findings as to violation of the statute, and cannot modify
the terms of relief as drafted by the court below. The
practice has been the contrary.1 This is not only in conformity to the unquestioned power of an appellate court
in an equity cause, but because in suits under the Sherman
Act, it is unthinkable that Congress has entrusted the enforcement of a statute of such far-reaching importance to
the judgment of a single judge, without review of the relief
granted or denied by him.
In order that there may be no misunderstanding we
think it well to add to the opinion in the following
particulars.
1. The opinion states (p. 411):
"The royalties paid to the receiver by Hartford's lessees
may, unless the District Court finds that Hartford has,
since the entry of the receivership decree, violated the
anti-trust laws, or acted contrary to the terms of the final
decree as modified by this opinion, be paid over to Hartford. In any event Hartford should receive out of these
royalties compensation on a quantum meruit basis, for
services rendered to lessees."
ISwit & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396; Harriman v.
Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244; Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1, 81; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221
U. S. 106, 184; United States v. Terminal Railroad Assn., 224 U. S.
383, 409; United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 226 U. S. 470; United
States v. Suijt & Co., 286 U. S. 106; Local 167 v. United States, 291
U. S. 293, 299; Sugar Institute v. United States, 297 U. S. 553, 602;
United States v. Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241, 254; United States v.
Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., 321 U. S. 707, 723-728.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

The Government points out that had it not been for the
receivership, many of the licensees (most of whom were
not parties to the proceeding) would have paid no further
royalties to Hartford, and that they may be able to justify
refusal of payment of any royalties from the date of the
receivership, and ought not to be put into the position of
recovering royalties paid to the receiver, from Hartford.
It has been open to each of these licensees at any time
to repudiate its lease and license, to return the leased
machinery, to refuse to pay further rentals or royalties,
and to defend any suit arising out of such refusal to pay,
either for infringement or otherwise. It may be that
licensees have not taken this course because they relied
on the decree as entered by the District Court. In such
reliance they may have expected that the moneys paid the
receiver would be repaid to them.
In view of the modifications required by the opinion of
this court, such licensees must pay reasonable rental and
service charges on a quantum meruit basis (leaving out of
consideration any amount otherwise payable for the privilege of practicing the patented inventions involved) in
respect of the machines used in the interim. Unless Hartford, since the entry of the decree by the District Court,
has been guilty of some added violation of the anti-trust
laws, licensees must elect (a) to remain licensees on such
reasonable rental and royalty basis for the future as the
District Court may fix, or (b) repudiate the leases and litigate their rights as against Hartford to retain any portion
of the rents and royalties paid. Depending upon such
election of each of the lessees, the District Court may, on
the application of each, make an appropriate order for
the disposition of the fund in the light of the licensees'
election and the principles stated in the opinion of
this Court.
2. The Government expresses apprehension lest the
statement in the opinion that the decree of the District

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
570

Opinion of the Court.

Court is vacated and the cause remanded for further proceedings would result in the existence of no judgment in
effect in the interval between the issue of this court's
mandate and the formulation of a new decree by the
District Court. We need only say that the decree from
which the appeal was taken stands until further order or
orders are entered by the District Court pursuant to
mandate.
3. In various portions of the opinion direction is given
for provisions in the decree relating to "feeders, formers,
stackers and lehrs, and patents covering these or improvements of them, or methods or processes used in connection
with them . . ." It is said that this phraseology may
omit the Owens and Hartford suction machine patents,
including O'Neill suction patents acquired by Owens.
The language used was intended to cover such suction
machines.
4. The opinion states (p. 419):
"Hartford and the other corporate defendants mentioned in paragraph 24 should be required to lease or license
glass making machinery of the classes each now manufactures to any who may desire to take licenses . . ."
It is suggested that this language might permit
Hartford to cancel all its leases and retake the leased
machinery.
That was not intended by the language used. It was
intended that if persons desired to take a license instead
of taking a lease, and Hartford were willing to license
without leasing machinery, this might be done on reasonable terms. Hartford should of course be compelled to
lease machinery covered by its patents according to its
past practice, on reasonable terms, and should be required
to license the patents involved for manufacture and use
or sale, also on reasonable terms.
5. The Government finds some dubiety in the phrase,
relating to revision of paragraph 24 (a) of the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

Court's decree, viz., "should be required to lease or license
glass making machinery of the classes each now manufactures to any who may desire to take licenses." The
language is amended to add after the word "manufactures" the words "or leases."
6. The Government suggests that the opinion should
be clarified to permit independent machinery manufacturers to obtain licenses. The opinion is so modified, and
the corporate defendants are required to license all applicants to make, use, or sell the patented machines at
reasonable royalties.
7. The Government apprehends that the use of the
word "standard" with respect to the royalties to be
charged by Hartford may be taken as a determination that
present royalties are reasonable. To avoid any misunderstanding we substitute for the phrase "standard royalties"
the phrase "uniform reasonable royalties." Such uniform
reasonable royalties may include rental of the machines,
the servicing of the machines, or the use of the patents for
the production of glassware on the leased machines, the
licensee to have the option at his election to take and pay
for any or all of these privileges. Hartford should also be
required to license the patents for manufacture for use
or sale, but with the limitation that similar licenses at
uniform reasonable royalties must be available to all who
desire them.
8. The Government desires that power be reserved to
the District Court to dissolve Hartford.
The District Court, in its opinion, concluded, and we
think properly, that in the situation presented a dissolution of Hartford and a distribution of its patents into
various hands would create a worse situation than that
envisaged by the District Court's decree. We think this
is equally true of the status to be established by the modification of the decree required by our opinion. The opinion did not disturb paragraph 57 (A) of the decree entered

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

qualification upon the character and extent of the violation, are entitled to similar weight upon the character of
the relief required, unless they exceed the limits imposed
by law or amount to a clear abuse of discretion. Many of
the detailed revisions made here in the decree cannot
qualify in either category. A court which so accurately
found the facts and made conclusions concerning the violation hardly can have erred so consistently or so grossly as
this Court's action necessarily implies was the case.
Further elaboration of this view is not now required,
except to say that if the Court is thus to take over the
business of the trial courts, actually if not in form commingling its appellate with original jurisdiction, of course
it should spare no pains to make its mandate clear or to
correct minute errors inevitable in performing the task
without having heard the evidence, however great the
care given to it.
This reminder alone perhaps would not justify further
objection by dissenting justices. It cannot be captious,
however, if they find themselves unable to accept, through
acquiescence by silence, stated views of the record at variance with their own. It is stated in the revised opinion
that "the District Court, in its opinion, concluded, and we
think properly, that in the situation presented a dissolution of Hartford and a distribution of its patents into
various hands would create a worse situation than that
envisaged by the District Court's decree." (Emphasis
added.) I am unable to locate such a finding or conclusion
in the record.
A former dissenting opinion pointed out (323 U. S.
445) that the District Court did not deny the GovernBausch & Lomb Optical Co., 321 U. S. 707. In Local 167 v. United
States, 291 U. S. 293, the judgment and decree were affirmed without
change, the Court observing, at 299: "The United States is entitled
to effective relief....

In framing its [the decree's] provisions doubts

should be resolved in favor of the Government and against the
conspirators."

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
570

RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

below. If it be found that a decree entered in accordance
with this court's opinion has failed to bring about a correction of the violations of the anti-trust law which are the
basis of the relief granted, it will of course be open to
the Government, on a proper showing, to apply for further
or other relief.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR.

took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
JUSTICE JACKSON

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

The necessity for a second opinion, in effect a further
detailed writing of the decree in this case, gives added
point to the view expressed in an earlier dissent, 323 U. S.
438, that this Court should not undertake the long distance writing of the detailed provisions for relief, amounting to a framing of the decree, in Sherman Act proceedings. I do not say that Congress has entrusted enforcement of the Sherman Act "to the judgment of a single
judge."' I do say that his judgment upon the facts of
this case is necessarily better informed than that of appellate judges, however conscientious or industrious; and
accordingly his findings, when they are sustained without
'There can be no question of this Court's power to review and
modify terms of relief in Sherman Act suits, when they exceed the
limits imposed by law or amount to an abuse of discretion. As the
Court's opinion indicates, this power has been frequently exercised,
most often in the cases cited to strengthen rather than to weaken
the remedy where violation has been found, United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 184; United States v. Union Pacific
R. Co., 226 U. S. 470; United States v. Swift & Co., 286 U. S. 106;
United States v. Univis Lens Co., 316 U. S. 241; and in no instance
substantially to the extent of rewriting the detailed provisions of
the decree in extenso, as is done in this case; cf. Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 396; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
1; Sugar Institute v. United States, 297 U. S. 553; United States v.

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
570

RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

ment's prayer for dissolution. It only deferred action on
that request and this was expressly upon the condition
that Hartford meet the conditions of its decree, including
compulsory licensing, royalty free, and transfer of its management to court officers, not only pending appeal but
until the court should find, after a reasonable time, that
competition had been restored to the industry. The court
expressly stated: "If after the expiration of a reasonable
time, it appears to the court that the steps he is now taking
are insufficient to restore a free and competitive status to
the industry, the receivers shall be ordered to submit a
plan or plans for the dissolution of Hartford." The court
further said, "Dissolution is not resorted to by the court
unless Hartford wills it so. The measures herein adopted
by the court are deemed necessary to install competition
to the industry . . ." It previously had stated that "no
half-way measures will suffice," that the Government had
requested dissolution, but that "the court, however, is
first going to make an attempt to avoid that, if it is possible to do so and at the same time restore competitionto the
industry. If this cannot be worked out to the satisfaction
of the court, dissolution will be ordered." (Emphasis
added.) 46 F. Supp. 621, 622, 620.2
The District Court has made no finding that competition has been restored to the industry. This Court does
not purport to make one, and has no power to make one,
in the absence of evidence to show that competition has
been restored. No such evidence has been taken. Yet,
as I read its terms, this Court's decree, including the
present revisions, forbids the District Court to make one
upon remand of this cause.
2It

is hardly necessary to point out specifically the large difference

between a finding that competition has been restored to the industry

and one that "a dissolution of Hartford and a distribution of its patents
into various hands would create a worse situation than that envisaged
by the District Court's decree."

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

Clearly competition had not been restored to the industry when the District Court's decree was entered in August,
1942. The only occasion for its decree then, or for continuance now oi the relief as modified, was and is to bring
about such a restoration. This Court's original decree
declared, "The receivership should be wound up and the
business returned to Hartford." 323 U. S. 411. That
direction was made upon the assumption that the District
Court had concluded "that a continuance of certain of
Hartford's activities would be of advantage to the glass
industry and denied, for the time being, that form of relief," i. e., dissolution. 323 U. S. 408. That assumption
has now been stated in the present opinion as one that the
District Court "concluded, and we think properly, that in
the situation presented a dissolutionof Hartford and a distribution of its patents into various hands would create
a worse situation than that envisaged by the District
Court's decree." The further conclusion is expressed that
"this is equally true of the status to be established by the
modification of the decree required by our opinion."
Unless this language is at once a ruling that dissolution
was not justified and would not have been sustained, if
ordered in 1942, and that it should not now be decreed,
I am unable to understand its meaning. That it is so
effective appears from the further direction, "If it be
found that a decree entered in accordance with this court's
opinion has failed to bring about a correction of the violations of the anti-trust law which are the basis of the
relief granted, it will of course be open to the Government, on a proper showing, to apply for further or other
relief." (Emphasis added.)
In my judgment this effectively modifies, if it does not
nullify, paragraph 57A of the District Court's decree in
so far as it reserved the power to order dissolution of Hartford, if after a reasonable time competition should not
be restored, notwithstanding the apparent disclaimer of

HARTFORD-EMPIRE CO. v. U. S.
570

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

this effect. No finding can now be made, nor can one
be made for some time in the future, that "a decree entered in accordance with this court's opinion has failed
to bring about a correction of the violations," much less
that competition has been restored in the industry, for the
simple reason that no such decree has been entered. If
only such a finding can sustain an order for dissolution,
obviously no such order can be made upon the remand of
this case, whether or not the District Court then might
find, upon conclusive evidence, that competition had not
been restored, even under the more stringent terms of
its decree. Only at some indefinite future time could
such an order be entered, based upon evidence that the
milder terms of this Court's decree had failed to restore
competition.
In my opinion, therefore, the District Court is foreclosed from finding that competition has not been restored, even under the more stringent provisions of its
decree, during the nearly three years it has been in force.
If in that time those measures have not been effective to
restore competition, as the court clearly thought might
prove to be true, the greatly softened measures of this
Court's decree hardly can be expected to accomplish that
object. Yet it effectually forbids the District Court to
examine the effects of its decree upon the restoration of
competition, to make a present finding, if the evidence
should justify it, that competition has not been, or cannot
be, restored, and to decree dissolution accordingly.
In effect this Court finds the fact for itself, without evidence and, in my opinion, without right. That is true unless the purpose is to rule, as a matter of law, that Hartford cannot now be dissolved and is entitled to continue
in business, thus dominating the industry, even though
competition has not been restored. This comes near, if
not entirely, to destroying the long-established power to
order dissolution.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

I think also that the royalties collected and impounded
by the court for Hartford's protection in the event of reversal of its judgment should be returned to those from
whom they were collected. Apart from the view, previously expressed, that the District Court's finding should
not be disturbed to the effect that free licensing was required to restore competition if Hartford were to continue
in business and in control of its more than 600 patents,
these funds were collected only by reason of the District
Court's order requiring this in order to preserve the status
quo pending appeal. No one can tell now whether or not
the licensees, but for this order, would have elected to refuse to pay the royalties and litigate their right to do so.
Those funds should not be returned to Hartford, to be
retained by it as the product or consequence not only of
its violation but also of the court's order.
Moreover, under the terms of this Court's revised decree, if the licensees who have paid in the royalties elect
to remain licensees, and pay the reasonable royalties required "for the future," it is not clear that provision is
made for repayment to them of any portion of the royalties collected which may be in excess of the reasonable
royalties this Court's decree requires be paid for the future.
The opposite appears to be the course directed. The revised opinion requires the licensees to elect "to remain
licensees on such reasonable rental and royalty basis for
the future as the District Court may fix" or to repudiate
the leases and litigate with Hartford their rights "to
retain any portionof the rents and royalties paid." (Emphasis added.) Under the terms of the District Court's
decree, the receivers have collected rents and royalties
"under the present contracts and agreements of Hartford
in its licensing and lease system." Hartford has no more
right to retain unreasonable royalties collected while the
District Court's decree has remained or continues to be in
effect than it has to collect such royalties for the future.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

joins in this opinion.

