UNITED STATES v. BEACH.
182

Opinion of the Court.

field with them and holding similar security, have been
benefited by assessments purposely intended to discriminate in their favor, and against the complainants. I think
the decision below plainly runs counter to decisions of this
court. Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board of Revision, 284
U. S.23; Iowa-Des Moines National Bank v. Bennett, 284
U. S. 239, 245; ConcordiaFireIns. Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S.
535.
UNITED STATES v. BEACH.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 620.

Argued February 9, 1945.-Decided February 26, 1945.

The Mann Act is applicable to transportation taking place wholly
within the District of Columbia. P. 195.
144 F. 2d 533, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 323

U. S. 705, to review the reversal of a

conviction for violation of the Mann Act.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom SolicitorGeneral Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, Messrs. Robert
S. Erdahl, Irving S. Shapiro and W. Marvin Smith were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. James R. Kirkland, with whom Mr. Nathan M.
Lubar was on the brief, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent was indicted and convicted upon a jury
trial, in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, of transporting another woman in
Washington, D. C., for the purpose of prostitution, in
violation of the Mann Act. 36 Stat. 825, 18 U. S. C.
§ 397, et seq. Section 2, 18 U. S. C. § 398, makes it a penal
offense knowingly to "transport or cause to be trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

ported, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for,
or in transporting, in interstate . . . commerce, or . . .
in the District of Columbia, any woman . . . for the purpose of prostitution . . .or with the intent and purpose
to induce, entice, or compel such woman . . . to give
herself up to debauchery, or to engage in any other immoral practice . . ." The prohibited transportation with
the intent or purpose to induce or entice the woman transported to practice prostitution violates the statute. Hoke
v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; Athanasaw v. United
States, 227 U. S. 326; Harris v. United States, 227 U. S.
340, 341; Wilson v. United States, 232 U. S. 563, 571; cf.
Mortensen v. United States, 322 U. S. 369, 374.
The Court of Appeals for the District set aside the conviction on the ground that the Mann Act was inapplicable
to transportation taking place wholly within the District.
144 F. 2d 533. That court found support for its conclusion in the numerous acts of Congress enacting local laws
for the District, which make it a criminal offense for "any
prostitute" to invite or persuade any person to go with
her to any building for the purpose of prostitution, or for
any person to entice or force any woman to go to a house
of assignation, or for any person to invite, induce, or procure another to engage in prostitution or to go to any
place for purposes of prostitution.' The court thought
that the addition of the prohibition of the Mann Act to
this legislation, specifically applicable only in the District,
was so useless and unnecessary as to indicate that the
Mann Act was not designed to apply to the District of
Columbia "except in its interstate aspect." No other
question was considered or decided below or discussed in
the briefs and argument of counsel here, and we decide
no other.
1 D.

C. Code (1929) Tit. 6, §§ 177, 179; D. C. Code (1940) §§ 222701, 22-2702, 22-2705 to 22-2712.

'UNITED STATES v. BEACH.
193

Opinion of the Court.

But none of these enactments of local application speak
of "transportation" for immoral purposes, which is the
act condemned by the Mann Act. The Mann Act not
only penalizes such transportation in interstate commerce,
which is defined in § 1, 18 U. S. C. § 397, as including any
commerce into or out of the District, but it specifically
and repeatedly includes in its prohibition, such transportation "in any territory or the District of Columbia."
Congress, in enacting the Mann Act, made it perfectly
plain by its Committee Reports on the proposed legislation that it was intended to apply to transportation taking place wholly within the District of Columbia. H. Rep.
No. 47, 61st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2; S. Rep. No. 886, 61st
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2. Both Reports declare: "All of the
provisions which make the crime depend upon transportation in interstate or foreign commerce are made applicable
to the District of Columbia, the Territories and possessions of the United States, including the Panama Canal
Zone, without regard to the crossing of district, territorial,
or state lines . . ." This was recognized both by the
proponents and by the opponents of the bill on the floor of
the House. 45 Cong. Rec. 812-813, 816; 45 Cong. Rec.
App. 14. (The point was not debated in the Senate.)
Congress thus, through the exercise of its police power
over the District, followed its usual policy of extending
legislation based on the commerce power to the same
2
substantive acts taking place wholly within the District.

Whether the District was already adequately protected
from the evils of prostitution without the added prohibition of transportation for that purpose, was for Congress,
not the courts, to decide. The prohibition was deliber2 See, for example, the Sherman Act (15 U. S. C. § 12), the Federal
Trade Commission Act (15 U. S. C. § 44), the Federal Denture Act
(18 U. S. C. Supp. III, 1943, § 420g), the Anti-Racketeering Act
(18 U. S. C. § 420b), and the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21

U. S. C. § 16).

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

ately adopted by Congress, and it conflicts with no other
legislation applicable in the District. Hence the present
reversal of the conviction for its violation was erroneous.
As the Court of Appeals did not pass upon other grounds
for reversal urged by respondent, the case is remanded to
it for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Bates v. United States, 323 U. S. 15, 17, and cases
cited.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting.
We are dealing here with a statute known and referred
to by Congress in § 8 as the "White-slave traffic Act."
36 Stat. 825, 827. The Congressional debates and committee reports on the legislation make it plain that the
Act was designed and intended solely to prevent "whiteslave" traffic and that it should not be applied to the situation present in this case. See 45 Cong. Rec. 805, 821,
1035, 1037; H. Rep. No. 47, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.; S. Rep.
No. 886, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.
Prior to the passage of the Act in 1910, numerous investigations had disclosed the existence of a systematic,
continuous international and interstate traffic in women
and girls, who were being forced against their will to practice prostitution.1 Fraud, trickery, deceit, force and
1 "The testimony which has been collected, including correspondence and other documentary evidence, which was captured at the
time of the arrest of certain notorious criminals, clearly reveals that
an organized society exists both in this country, and abroad, formed
for no other purpose than to exploit innocent girls for immoral purposes. This syndicate has headquarters, and distributing centers,
in New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Denver, and many other American cities, extending even as far north as Nome in Alaska. From
the data accumulated by the government agents, it appears that

UNITED STATES v. BEACH.
193

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

liquor were used by panderers and procurers to force them
into lives of shameless, immoral and involuntary servitude. Many men earned their livelihood from the sale
and exploitation of these women. State laws were found
entirely inadequate to cope with such an extensive international and interstate traffic.
Congress, however, was careful to distinguish this
vicious traffic from immorality and prostitution in general.
It made it clear that the Act was aimed solely at the
white-slave traffic, which was explicitly defined as "the
business of securing white women and girls and of selling
them outright, or of exploiting them for immoral purposes." H. Rep. No. 47, p. 11; S. Rep. No. 886, p. 11. It
was pointed out that "the women who are the victims of
the traffic are unwillingly forced to practice prostitution"
and that "these women are practically slaves in the true
sense of the word; that many of them are kept in houses
of ill fame against their will; and that force, if necessary,
is used to deprive them of their liberty." H. Rep. No. 47,
p. 10; S. Rep. No. 886, p. 11. "The term 'white slave'
includes only those women and girls who are literally
slaves--those women who are owned and held as property
and chattels-whose lives are lives of involuntary servitude; those who practice prostitution as a result of the
activities of the procurer, and who, for a considerable
period at least, continue to lead their degraded lives because of the power exercised over them by their owners."
H. Rep. No. 47, pp. 10, 11; S. Rep. No. 886, p. 11.V At the
same time, the Congressional committees were careful to
explain that there was no attempt, by invading the provwithin the last ten years, hundreds of girls have been transferred to
various portions of the United States, through the pernicious activities of the agents of this syndicate." 45 Cong. Rec. 1037.
2
Webster's New International Dictionary, 2d Ed., defines "white
slave" as "a woman held unwillingly for purposes of commercial
prostitution."
637582

-46-

17

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

324 U. S.

ince of the states, to suppress or regulate immorality in
general or "to regulate the practice of voluntary prostitution." No effort was made to prohibit or punish the practice of prostitution or the keeping of houses of ill fame.
These matters were recognized to be within the proper
and exclusive domain of state law. H. Rep. No. 47,
pp. 1, 2.
This rich background of Congressional intent and the
clear and obvious title of the Act give meaning and
boundaries to the broad language used in the statute. It
was the pernicious white-slave traffic that Congress had
in mind when it provided in § 2, under which respondent
was convicted, for the punishment of any person transporting in interstate or foreign commerce, or in any
Territory or in the District of Columbia, any woman
or girl for the purpose of prostitution, debauchery or any
other immoral purpose. That courts in the past have
ignored the plain Congressional purpose and have applied
these statutory words in a literal sense, so as to punish
anyone transporting a woman for immoral purposes quite
apart from any connection with white-slavery, does not
command us to continue such an erroneous construction
and application of the Act.
Therefore I agree with the Court to the extent that
its judgment means that the Act applies to white-slave
traffic solely within the District of Columbia, a result
required by the words of the statute and by the Congressional history. But the application of the Act to
transportation solely within the District of Columbia for
purposes quite unrelated to white-slavery should not be
sanctioned. The Court does not pass upon that issue
directly and, in its discretion, may ignore it. But the
facts of this case speak out boldly and cannot be unheeded.
To do so is to impose a criminal statute unfairly upon a
citizen by disregarding its true intent and purpose,
thereby adding another instance of tortured and grotesque
application to its already unhappy history.

UNITED STATES v. BEACH.
193

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

The evidence here discloses that the respondent operated a dress shop in the city of Washington and employed
a girl as an assistant. The girl at the same time began to
live with respondent at the latter's apartment. Three
days later respondent suggested to the girl that she could
earn more money by "selling herself." Although she had
never practiced prostitution before, the girl thought it
over and finally agreed to work for respondent as a
prostitute. The girl practiced prostitution in respondent's apartment and in various hotel rooms to which respondent sent her. On the day in question, respondent
accompanied the girl to a hotel some four blocks from the
apartment for purposes of prostitution. The trip was
made by taxicab, respondent paying her own and the
girl's fare. The evidence is clear that the respondent in
no way compelled, enticed or induced the girl to engage
in the business of prostitution through fraud, deceit or
force; it was a purely voluntary matter on the part of
the girl.
Thus the Court today applies the White Slave Traffic
Act to a case of voluntary prostitution, despite the fact
that none of the elements of white-slavery is present.
Equally disregarded is the fact that Congress clearly intended such conduct to remain punishable under local
laws and that adequate local laws for the District of
Columbia have been provided by Congress to cope with
the real evils present in this instance. Such facts make
it unnecessary to invoke the White Slave Traffic Act as,
a means of controlling voluntary vice in the District.
The Act is applied here not because white-slavery is
present but because acts of voluntary prostitution followed the payment for a four-block taxicab ride, acts which
are punishable under local law. Such distortion of the
legislative purpose is not required to safeguard sound
rules of interpretation. It can only serve to subject residents of the District of Columbia to the evils of blackmail

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

324 U. S.

and persecution and to punish unjustly those whose immoral acts do not constitute white-slavery. No principle
of stare decisis and no rule of statute or reason can justify
such a result.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK joins in this opinion.

GARBER v. CREWS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 518.

Argued February 6, 7, 1945.-Decided February 26, 1945.

The double liability imposed on stockholders of national banks by
§ 23 of the Act of December 23, 1913, held enforcible against one
who sold his shares within sixty days of the closing of the bank while
insolvent, even though the sale was made in good faith and though
the bank's closing was voluntary. P. 202.
144 F. 2d 665, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 701, to review the affirmance of
a judgment against the petitioner here in an action to
enforce a national bank stockholders' liability.

Mr. P. C. Simons for petitioner.
Mr. Christy Russell, with whom Mr. L. G. Owen was on
the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are called upon to determine the application in the
circumstances of this case of § 23 of the Act of Dec. 23,
1913,1 which imposes liability upon stockholders of a
closed national bank.
November 25, 1929, the American National Bank of
Enid, Oklahoma, pursuant to a resolution of its directors,
*, 6, 38 Stat. 251, 273, 12 U. S. C. § 64.

