OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

machine in the compression bar,.which also acts to hold down
the fur before it is carried to the separating brush. But this
bar has no carding feature to it, and cannot be made to perform the functions of a card, it has no separate teeth, and is
not a card or the mechanical equivalent of one shown and
described and made a part of the eighth claim.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in the conclusion that the mechanism of the respondents was so materially
different from the Sutton patent as to avoid the infringement
alleged; and that an essential element, of the eighth claim of
the Sutton patent was not used by the respondents.
Decree affirmed.

LEONARD v. VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT AND PACIFIC
RAILROAD COMP'ANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 233. Argued April 26, 27, 1905.-Decided May 2, 1505.

The rule reiterated that persons may by their acts, or omissions to act,
waive rights which they might otherwise have under the Constitution
and laws of the United States; and the question whether they have or
have not lost such rights by their failure to act, or by their action, is not
a Federal question.
The judgment in this case rested on grounds broad enough to sustam it
independent of any Federal question.

THIs was an action of ejeetment brought, in 1896, by the
Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pac'fic Railroad Company in the
First Judicial District Court, Caddo Parish, Louisiana, against
certain possessors, for whom Smith, Leonard and others were
substituted as defendants, to recover 178.80 acres of land in
that parish less 35.18 acres theretofore recovered by Smith
and others in another action.
Defendants, both by plea and answer, .set up that theY,
being either the heirs of W W Smith, or parties privy, brought
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for.,the Westem

LEONARD v. VICKSBURG &c. R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

District of Louisiana against one Turner, asserting ownership
to the entire tract, and praying to be restored to possession
of about forty acres thereof, alleged to be illegally held by
Turner. That Turner disclaimed title and averred that he
was a tenant of the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific Railroad Company, and thereupon the railroad company answered,
claiming possession and ownership of the entire tract known
as Silver Lake.
That a judgment was rendered in said suit in favor of the
heirs of W W. Smith (in 1886), decreeing them to be the
owners of the parcel of land possession of' which was sought
in that suit, and they were put in possession of the same; and
that the judgment was final and had the force and effect of
res judicata, as against all parties to that suit, and as against
-the claims of plaintiffs in this suit.
The copy.of -complaint in Smith v Turner, attached, showed*
that diversity of citizenship was set up as the ground of jurisdiction.
And answering, defendants averred that the State of Louisana sold to W W Smith, on the fourteenth of May, 1853, the
tract of land claimed by plaintiff, for the price of $1.25 per
acre, which was paid into the treasury of the State by Smith,
and was never returned to him, that, on the twenty-fourth of
February, 1855, the State of Louisiana, through its constituted
authorities, issued a patent to said tract of land to Smith,
That the State of Louisiana claimed and acquired the said
tract of laftd as swamp and overflowed land, granted to the
State of Louisiana by the acts of Congress of 1849 and 1850,
known as the swamp land grants, and that the State sold the
lands. to Smith, as swamp and overflowed lands;
That all sales of land in Louisiana made as swamp and
overflowed land, whether made. by .the United States or by
the State of Louisiana, and whether the land sold was of that
character or.not, were conhrmed by the act of Congress approved-March 2, 1855, entitled "An act for the relief of purchasers and locators of swamp and overflowed lands;"
voL. oxovii-27

OCTVOBER TEIM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

That that act of Congress was extended so as to protect
sales after its passage, by the act of Congress-of March 3, 1857,
to confirm all selections of swamp and overflowed lands by
the several States under the acts of Congress of 1849 and 1850;
That the act of March 2, 1855, confirmed the title of the
said W W Smith to the tract of land, whether it belonged to
the State of Louisiana, under the swamp land grant of Congress, or whether it belonged to th'e United States, and that
Smith thus acquired title to the land, both by purchase from
the. State of Louisiana and by confirmation by Congress.
Thereupon J. H. McCormick, receiver for the Vicksburg,
Shreveport and Pacific Railroad Company, filed his plea and
exception of'res 2udicata to defendants' answer and plea therein
of ownership of the said lands, averring that, in a suit entitled
State of Louisiana v W W Smith et aZ., brought in 1857 in
the District Court of Caddo Parish, Louisiana, defendant Smith
put at issue the validity and legality of his title to the land,
and, upon final hearing,, a judgment was rendered in that suit
decreeing the certificate and patent under which Smith claimed
to be null and void, and directing their cancellation, and that
they be delivered to the State of Louisiana. That defendants
appealed to the Supreme Court, which appeal was thereafter-wards dismissed, and that said judgment is res 3udicata, and
a perpetual bar to defendants' right of action.
The Caddo District Court, Watkins, J., found that on the
trial of the cause of Smith v. Turner, in the Circuit Court, in
which case recovery of only 35.18 acres out of the tract of
178.80 acres, known as "Silver Lake," was sought, though
title to the entire tract was asserted on one side and denied
on the other, the railroad company had offered to prove the
value of the whole tract at ten thousand dollars, but that
Smith had objected on the ground that only the possession
of 35.18 acres was in issue, and the Circuit Court had, therefore, declined to admit the evidence, and that, the case having
gone to judgment, a.writ of error from the Supreme Court of
the United States was dismissed on.motion of defendants in

LEONARD v. VICKSBURG &c. R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

Stdtement of the Case.

error, because the possession of the 35.18 acres was not worth
over $2,000. 135 U. S. 195.
The District Court held that as thq same parties, who now
contended that the judgment m Smith v Purner constituted
the thing, adjudged as to the entire tract, had successfully mesisted m that case that nothing was therein m issue except
the right of possession of 35.18 acres, the court was not required to adjudge that the legal effect of that judgment extended to cover the entire tract. As to the judgment in favor
of the State, in State v Smith, the court recapitulated the
facts, finding that the return of the money paid by Smith to
obtain the patent was lawfully tendered December 3, 1857;
the grounds on which the judgment proceeded, that this judgment was rendered November 24, 1860, in favor of the State,
**cancelling the Smith entry; that Smith prosecuted an appeal,
which, after delay by reason of the Civil War, was dismissed
by the state Supreme Court, August 11, 1869; and that because of defective certificates, the Circuit Court was led to
believe in Smi1d v Turner, that the case of State v Smith had
not been disposed of. The District Court further found for
reasons given that the title of the railroad company in and
to the land was perfect. The court gave judgment m favor
of the railroad company and the case was carried to the Supreme Court of Louisiana. 112 Louisiana, 51.
Dealing with defendants' pleas of res 3udicata"and estoppel,
the Supreme Court held that the general rule that a judgment
as to the ownership of a portion of a tract of land is conclusive
between the same parties, claiming under the same titles, as
to the ownership of the whole tract, should not be applied in
the circumstances detailed, which in its opinion operated to
confine the effect of the judgment to the particular parcel for
which recovery was sought Those pleas were overruled as
to all of the tract except 35.18 acres, but the court sustained
plaintiff's plea of res 2udicaia predicated on the judgment in
State v Smith, and thus continued.
"This conclusion disposes of the contention that W. W.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

Smith bought the land in question as swamp or overflowed
land, since the State, in the suit just referred to, distinctly
alleged that 'it was not so sold, and its position was sustained
by the judgment therein rendered. But if it had been sold
as land acquired under the acts of Congress of 1849 and 1850
(9. Stat. 352, 519), the result would be the same, since it belonged to that class of land which, under the act of. the general
assembly, No. 247, p. 306, of 1855, could only have been sold
after having been surveyed, and one of the causes of action
set up by the State in its suit against Smith, and maintained
by the judgment therein rendered, was that it had not been
surveyed.
"Finally, it is argued that, under the acts of Congress of
1849 and 1850, title sn prwsenti to all swamp and overflowed
lands within its limits vested in the State of Louisiana without regard to selection or approval, that the land in question
was of that character, and that the State acquired it under
those acts, and hence that the United States could not have
granted, and the Ptate (or railroad company) could not have
acquired it under the act of June 3, 1856 (11 Stat. 18).
"The acts of 1849 and 1850 were clearly not intended to
operate against the will of the State. On the contrary, they
distinctly left it to the State to select, subject to the approval
of the Secretary of the. Interior, the lands which it might consider within the terms of the grant.
"Whether the State might have selected the tract in question, and whether such selection might or would have been
approved, need not be here considered In point of fact, not
only was the selection not made and the approval not given,
but the grantor and the.,grantee concurred in the view that
the tract fell within the ierms of the act of 1856, and was
granted to and acquired by the State of Louisiana, as the
trustee of the V., S. & P R. R. Co., for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of the railroad which that company was
to build."
And the court quoted the headnotes of Rogers Locomotive

LEONAMD v. VICKStURG &c. R. R. CO.
19S U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Machine Works v American Emsgrant Co., 164 U. S. 559, to
the effect that the swamp land act of 1850 gave an inchoate
title to the State; that -the identification of the lands by the
Secretary of the Interior was necessary before the title became
perfect; that the certificate of the Secretary, m 1858, that
certain lands enured to the State under the railroad act of
1856, was a decision that they were not embraced by the swamp
land act of 1850; that the aceptance by the State of lands
certified to it by the Secretary is conclusive upon the State,
and that a contract with a county for swamp and overflowed
lands gives no better right than the county had to the lands
which had been previously certified to the State.
The court-then stated that, apart from these defenses, there
appeared to be no objection to plaintiff's title.
The judgment of the District Court was affirmed, and this
writ of error allowed. Motions to dismiss or affirm were sub,mitted and their consideration postponed to the hearing on
the merits.
Mr A. H. Leonard and Mr William P Hall for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr Harry H. Hall and Mr Frank P Stubbs, with whom
Mr W H. Wise was on the brief, for defendant m error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We assume from the errors assigned; and no other grounds
are indicated by the record, that Federal questions in two
aspects are relied on to justify this writ of error.
First. The construction and application of the acts of Congress of 1.849, 1850 and 1856, taken with other acts referred to.
But as to this it should b~pomted out in the first place that
the state court adjudgeA the Smith title invalid on the mdependent ground, among others, of non-compliance with an

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Courb.

198 U. S.

act of the general assembly of Louisiana; and, in the second
place, that the Federal question thus suggested had been so
explicitly foreclosed by previous decisions as to leave no room
for real controversy Rogers Locomotsve Works v Amerscan
Emigrant Company, 164 U S. 559; Michigan Land Company
v Rust, 168 U S. 589; Equitable Life Assurance Society v
Brown, 187 U. S.308.
Second. That the Supreme Court of Louisiana, by its judgment in this case, denied a right specially set up or claimed
under the Constitution of the United States, or an authority
exercised under the United States, that is to say, that such
a right was asserted, and was denied by the state Supreme
Court, in declining to give collateral effect to a judgment,
under certain circumstances, rendered by a court of the United
States in Louisiana.
We inquire then whether, when the state court, while holding the defense good as to the 35.18 acres by reason of the
judgment in Smith v Turner, held that, in the circumstances
detailed, defendants could not be permitted to insist that the
thing adjudged in that case determined the title to the entire
tract, that ruling presented a Federal question.
Generally speaking, questions of this sort are not Federal
questions. In Pierce v Somerset Railway, 171 U. S.641, 648,
we said. "A person may by his acts or omission to act waive
a right which he might otherwise have under the Constitution
of the United States as well as under-a statute, and the question whether he has or has not lost such right by his failure
to act or by his action, is not a Federal one." Eustis v Bolles,
150 U S.361, Rutland Railroad Company v Central Vermont
RailroadCompany, 159 U S.630, and Seneca Nation v Chrsty,
162 U. S.283, were cited.
In Eustis v Bolles, the state court held that by accepting
his dividend under insolvency proceedings, Eustis had waived
his legal right to claun that the discharge obtained under subsequent laws impaired the obligation of a contract, and this
court held that whether that view of the case was sound or not,

LEONARD v. VICKSBURG &c. R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it was not a Federal question, and therefore not within the
province of this court to inquire into.
In Seneca Nation v Chnsty, it was held -by the state court
that even if there Were a right of recovery on the part of plaintiffs in error because a certain grant was in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States, yet that such recovery
was barred by the New York statute of limitations.
In Gillis v "Stsnchfield, 159 U S.658, and Speed v McCarthy, 181 U. S.269, it was ruled that the application of the
doctrine of estoppel to.mininglocations did not raise Federal
questions.
In the present case, the Supreme Court of Louisiana applied
the doctrine which forbids parties from assuming inconsistent
positions, in judicial proceedings.
In its view, Smith, having insisted in Smith v Turner, that,
notwithstanding the railroad company had come in as defendant, and each party asserted title to the entire tract, the title
to the 35.18 acres was alone in issue, and that the value of the
whole tract was, therefore, not involved, and the railroad
company having been thereby deprived of its writ of error,
must be confined in this suit to the specific recovery obtained
in that, so far as -the effect of that judgment was concerned.
That was a question of estoppel or quasi-estoppel and not a
Federal question. Whether it was sound or not, it is not for
us to inquire. It was broad enough to support-the judgment
without reference to any Federal question.
Writ of error dismissed.

