LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

repeatedly held, the law has a definite and distinct value and
is readily understood.
I am authorized to state.that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE DAY concur m this dissent.

TICE BREWER

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF ONEIDA COUNTY, STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 292. !Argued February 23, 24, 195.-Decded April 17, 1905.

-The general right to make a contract in relation-to his business is part of
the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, and this includes
the right to purchase and sell labor, except as controlled by the State
mnthe legitimate exercise of its police power.
Liberty of contract relating to labor includes both parties to it; the one has
' as much right to purchase as the other to sell labor.
There is no reasonable ground, on the score of health, for mterfermg.with
the liberty of the person or the right of free"contract, by determining the
hours of labor, in the occupation of a baker. Nor can a law limiting
such hours be justified as a health law to safeguard the public health, or
the health of the individuals folfowing that occupation.
Section 110 of the labor law of the State of New York, providing that no
employds shall be required or permitted to work m bakeries more than
sixty hours in a week, or ten hours a day, is not a legitimate exercise of
the police power of the State, but an unreasonable, unnecessary and
arbitrary interference with the right and liberty of the individual to
contract, in relation to labor, and as such it is in conflict with, and void
under, the Federal Constitution.

TIs is a writ of error to the County Court of Oneida County,
in the State of New York (to which court the record had been
-remitted), to review the judgment Qf the Court of Appeals of
that State, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court, which
itself affirmed the judgment of the County Court, convicting
the defendant of a misdemeanor on an indictment under a
statute of .that State, known, by its short title, as the labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

law The section of the statute under which the indictment
was found is section 110, and is reproduced in the margin,'
(together with the other sections of the labor law upon the
subject of bakeries, being sections 111 to 115, both inclusive).
The indictment averred that the defendant "wrongfully and
unlawfully required and permitted an employ6 working for
hun in his biscuit, bread and cake bakery and confectionery
establishment, at the city of Utica, in this county, to work
more than sixty hours in one week," after having been th r.eFtofore convicted of a violation of the same act, and thlofdfore, as
averred, he committed the crime or misdemeanor, second offense. The plaintiff Tn error demurred to the indictment on
several grounds, one of which was that the facts stated did not
I "§ 110. Hours of labor sn bak-erzes and confectionery establishments.No employ6 shall be required or permitted to work in a biscuit, bread or
cake bakery or confectionery establishment more than sixty hours in any
one week, or more than ten hours in any one day, ubless for the purpose of
making a shorter work day on the last day of the week; nor more hours in
any one week than will make an average of ten hours per day for the number
of days during such week in which such employ6 shall work.
"§ 111. Dratnage and plumbzng of buildingsand rooms occupiedby bakeries.
-All buillings or rooms occupied as biscuit, bread, pie or cake bakeries,
shall be drained and plumbed in a manner conducive to the proper and
healthful sanitary condition thereof, and shall be constructed with air shafts,
windows or ventilating pipes, sufficient to insure ventilation. The factory
inspector may direct the proper dramageplumbing and ventilation of such
rooms or buildings. No cellar or basement, not now used for a bakery shall
hereafter be so occupied or used, unless the proprietor shall comply with the
sanitary provisions of this article.
"§ 112. Reqgurements as to rooms, furniture, uteisils and manufactured
products.-Every room used for the manufacture of flour or meal food
products shall be at least eight feet in height and shall have, if deemed necessary by the factory inspector, an impermeable floor constructed of cement,
or of tiles laid in cement, or an additional flooring of wood properly saturated
with linseed oil. The side walls of such rooms shall be plastered or wainscoted. The factory inspector may require the side walls and ceiling. to be
whitewashed, at least once in three months. He may also require the wood
work of such walls to be painted. The furniture and utensils shall be so
arranged as to be readily cleansed and not prevent the proper cleaning of
any part of a room. The manufactured flour or meal food products shall
be kept in dry and airy rooms, so arranged that the floors, shelves and all

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

constitute a crime. -The demurrer was overruled, and the
plaintiff in error having refused to plead further, a plea of not
guilty was entered by order of the court- and the trial commenced, and-he was convicted of misdemeanor, second offense,
as indicted, and sentenced to pay a fine of $50 and to stand
committed until paid, not to exceed fifty days in the Oneida
County jail. A-certificate of reasonable doubt was granted by
the county judge of Oneida County, whereon an-appeal was.
taken to the Appellate Division -of the Supreme Court, lFourth
Department, where the judgment of convictiQn was affirmed.
73 App. Div N. Y 120. A further appeal was then taken
to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment of conviction was
again affirmed. 177 N. Y 145.
other facilities for storing the same can be properly cleaned. No domestic
animals, except cats, shall be allowed to remain in a room used as a biscuit,
bread, pie, or cake bakery, or any room in, such bakery where flour or meal
products are stored.
"§ 113. Wash-rooms and closets; sleeping places.-Every such bakery shall
be provided with a proper wash-room and water-closet or water-closets
apart from the bake-room, or rooms where the manufacture of such food
product Is conducted, and no water-closet, earth-closet, privy or ash-pit
shall be within or connected directly with the bake-room of any bakery,
hotel or public restaurant.
Nfo person shall sleep in a room occupied as a bake-room. Sleeping
places for the persons employed in the bakery shall be separate from the
rooms where flour or meal food products are manufactured or stored. If
the sleeping places are on the same floor where such products are manufactured, stored or sold, the factory inspector may inspect and order them
put m a proper sanitary condition.
"§ 114. Inspection of bakernes.-The factory inspector shall cause all
bakeries to be inspected. If it be found upon 4uch'inspection that the
bakeries so iispected are constructed and conducted in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, the factory inspector shall issue a certificate
to the persons owning or conducting such bakeries.
"§ 115. Notice regusring alterations.-If, in the opinion of the factory
lispector, alterations are required m .or upon premises occupied and used
as bakeries, in order to comply with the provisions of this article, a written
notice shall be served by him upon.the owner, agent or lesse of such premises, either personally or by mail, requiring such alterations to *be made
within sixty days after such service, and such mIterationas shall'be made
accordingly."

OCTOBER TERM1, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

198 U. S.

Mr Frank Harvey Field and Mr Henry Wewvsiann for
plaintiff in error"
The statute in question denies to certain persons in the
baking trade the equal prote'tion of the laws.
The legislation must affect equally all persons engaged in
the business of baking in order to conform to this -provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment. It really affects but a portion
of, the baking trade, namely, employ6s "in a biscuit, bread
or cake bakery, or confectionery establishment." Connolly v.
'Unon Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U S. 540; Ex parte Westerfield,
55 California, 550.
The Constitution itself says that no State shall "deny to any
person within its jurisdiction.the equal protection of the laws."
It, does not say, "no considerable number of persons," but
"any person." And this plaintiff in error may appeal with
cofifdence to the supreme law of the lan& against this law
which singles out a certain number of men employing bakers,
and permits all others similarly situated, including many who
are competitors in business, to work their employ6s as long
as they choose. Freund's Police Power, 633, Missoun v.
Leuns, 101 U S. 31, Barbwr v Connolly, 113 U S. 27, Coiling
v Goddard, 183 U S. 79, 92; Yick Wo v Hopkzns, 118 U. S.
356, Cooley's Const. Lim. 282; Tin Sing. v Washburn, 20
California, 534.
Classification must be based upon some difference bearing
a reasonable and just relation to the act in respect to which
the classification is attempted, but no mere arbitrary selection
can -ever be justified by calling it classification. Santa F6
R. R. Co. v Matthews, 174 U S. 105. Class legislation of the
character of the act in issue enacted by the States which discriminates in favor of one person or set of persons and against
another or others is forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Gulf C. & S. F R. Co. v Ellis, 165 U S.-150; Cotting v. Kansas
City ;s. Y Co., 183 U S. 79; Connolly v U S. P Co., 184 U. S.
540; People v Orange County Road Co., 175 N: Y 87, 90.
The equal protection of the laws is a pledge of-the protection

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

of equal laws. Yick Wo v Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369;
Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Sinnot v Davenport, 22
How. 227, 243, Butchers' Union Co. v Crescent City Co., 111
U. S. 746, M., K.,& T R. Co. v Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 626.
The statute in question is not a reasonable exercise of the
police power either from the standpoint of the trade itself
or from the standpoint of the decisions interpreting the exercise of the police power in connection with the Fourteenth
Amendment.
As to -the trade there is no danger to the employ6 in a firstclass bakery and so far as unsanitary conditions are concerned the employ6 is protected by other sections of the.law
Ex parte Westerfield, 55 Califorma, 550; 2 Buck's Hygiene and
Public Health, 10; The Lancet, vol. 2, 1895, 298, -Special
Sanitary Report of The Lancet on Bakeries, 1889, p. 1140;
and 1890, pp. 42, 208, 719; Reference Handbook of Medical
Sciences, vol. 6, p. 317, The Practitioner, vol. 53, 1894, p. 387,
Arlidge on Diseases of Occupations; Dragle in 45th Annual
Report, Register General.
The law is not a proper exercise- of the police power. 4
Black. 162-; Jeremey Bentham, Edinburgh ed., part IX, 157;
Cooley Const. Lim. 572; 2 Kent's Com. 340; Slaughter House
Case, 16 Wall. 36, Re Jacobs, 98 N. Y 98, Tiedemann Police
Power, § 178, Freund Police Power, 534.
Where the ostensible object of an enactment is to secure
the public comfort, welfare or safety, it must appear to be
adapted to that end, it cannot invade the rights of persons
and property under the guise of the police regulation, when.
it is ndt such in fact. Eden v People, 161 Illinois, 296, Ex
parte Jentsch, 112 California, 468, Ritchie v People, 155 Illinois,
98, Lake View v Rose Hill Cemetery Co., 70 Illinois, 191,
People v -Marx, 99 N. Y 377, 387, People v Giltson, 109 N. Y
389, 399; People v Bresecker, 169 N. Y 53, People v Hawkins,
157 N. Y 1, People v Beattie, 96 App. Div N. Y 383,390,399.
For other decisions of the Court of Appeals, interpreting the
labor law, see People ex rel. v Coler, 166 N. Y 1, Ryan v City
VOL. CxcvInI-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

198 U. S.

of New York, 177 N. Y 271, People ex tel. v Grout, 179 N. Y.
417.,

As to fundamental fight to pursue occupations, see decisions
of this court in cases cited supra and Calder v .Bull, 3 Dall.
386, Munn v Illinois, 94 U. S. 79; UnitedI States v Martin,
94 U S. 400. And see People v Phyle, 136 N. Y 554, Henderson v Mayor, 92 U S. 259.
In the other state courts legislation of the kind in issue has
been almost uniformly declared mvalid. Sawyer v Davs,
136 Massachusetts, 239, 243, Eden v People, 161 Illinois, 296,
Ritchie v People, 165 Illinois, 98, Ex parte Kuback, 85 California, 274, Godcharles v Wigeman, 113 Pa. St. 431, State v
Goodwill, 33 W Va. 179,"L eep v St. Louis R. R. Co., '58 Arkansas, 407, Low v Rees Pub. Co., 41 Nebraska, 127
The statute in question was never in'tended as a health provision but was purely a labor law This is indicated by the
facts leading up to the. adoption of this-statute by the New
York legislature. For acts of tfhis nature generally, see English Bakehouse Acts of. 1863, 2Q, 27 Viet., ch. 40-- English
Factory Act of 1883, Baker's Journal, New York City, May 8,
1895, Report New York State Bureau Labor Statistics; 1892,
vol. 3, Ch. 548, New York Laws of 1895, Ch. 672, 1896, Ch. 415,
§ 5, Laws of 1897, New Jersey act of April, 1896, Bakeshop
Act of Ontario, April 7, 1896, Acts of Maryland, and Massachusetts, passed in 1897.
Mr Julius M. Mayer, Attorney General of the State of
New York, for defendant in errorThe New York statute under consideration involves an
exercise of 'the police power of the State. The burden of
demonstrating that this statute is repugnant to the provisions
of the Federal Constitution is upon the pliintiff in error, and
he must show that there was no basis upon which the state
..court could rest its conclusion that the'legislation in question
was a' properexercise of police power. Holden v Hardy, 169
U. S. 366.

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Argument for Defendant m Error.

The conditions existing in the State of New York, which
may be considered as the occasion for the enactment of the
statute-under consideration, show that it was a proper exercise of the police power of the State.
The power of the legislature to decide what laws are necessary to secure the public health, safety or welfare'Is subject
to the power of the court to decide whether an act purporting
to promote the public health or safety has such a reasonable
connection therewith as to appear upon inspection -to be
adapted to that end. And the court may take judicial notice
of the fact of the common belief of the people upon that subjept. Matter of Viemetster, 179 N. Y 235.
There are two views as to the words-m the statute-" no
employ6 shall be required or permitted to work." The statute
was carefully drafted so as to-prevent evasion. It was intended
to be a barrier to the employer who might testify that he had
not orally or in writing requsred his employ6 to work, and yet
he might by inference and acquiescence accomplish the same
result by "permitting" him to so work.
The State, in undertaking this regulation, has 'a right to
safeguard the citizen against his own lack of knowledge. In
dealing with certain classes of men the State may properly say
that, for the purpose of having able-bodied men at its command
when it desires, it shall not permit these men, when engaged
in dangerous or unhealthful occupations, to work for a longer
period of time each day than is found to be in the interest of
the health of the person upon whom the legislation acts.
The unhealthful character of the baker's occupation was
fully commented upon by Judge Vann in his opinion in the
Court of Appeals. The opinions of the judges of that court
are very exhaustive and refer fully to all the cases on this
subject.
The propriety of its exercise within constitutional limits
is purely a matter of legislative discretion with which courts
cannot interfere. People v Kiiig, 110 N. Y 418, 423.
If the act "admits of two constructions as to its being a

OCTOBER TERf, 1904.
Opmion of the'Court.

198 U. S.

-health measure or otherwise, the courts should give the construction which sustains the act and makes it applicable m
furtherance of the public interests. Bohmer v Haffen, 161
N. Y 390, 399.
after making the foregoing statement of the facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.JSTIcUE PECKHAM,

The indictment, it will be seen, charges that the pixintiff
in error violated the one hundred and tenth section of articu.t 9,
chapter 415, of the Laws of 1897, known as the labor law o0
the State of New York, in that he wrongfully and unlawfully
required and permitted an" employ6 working for him to work
more than sixty hours in one week. There is nothing in any
of the opinions delivered in this case, either in the Supreme
Court or the Court of Appeals of the State, which construes
the section, in using the word "required," as referring to any
physical force being used to obtain the labor of an employ6.
It is assumed that the word means nothing more. than the
requirement arising from voluntary contract for such labor'
in excess of the number of hours specified in the statute. There
is no pretense in any of the opinions that the statute iwas mtended to meet a case of involuntary labor m any form. All
the opinions assume that there is no real distinction, so far as
this question is concerned, between the words "required" and
"permitted." The mandate of the statute.that "no employ6
shall be .required or permitted to work," is the substantial
equivalent of an enactment that "no employ6 shall contract
or agree to work," more than ten hours per',lay, and as there
is no provision for special emergencies the statite is mandatory
in all cases. It is not an act merely fixing the number of hours
which shall constitute a legal day's work, but an absolute prohibition upon the employer, permitting, under any circumstances, more than ten hours wbrk to be done m his establishment. The employ6 may desire to earn the extra money,
wuch would arise from his working more than the .prescribed

LOOHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Opumon of the Court.

"

time, but this statute forbids the employer from permitting
the employ6 to earnit.
The statute necessarily interferes with the right of contract
between the employer and employes, concerning the number
of hours in which the latter may labor in the bakery of the
employer. The general right to make a contraet in relation
to his business is part of the liberty of the individual protected
by the Fourteenth Amendment of'the Federal Constitution.
Allgeyer v Loustana, 165 U. S. 578. ,Under that provision
no State can deprive any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law The right to purchase or to soll
labor is part of the liberty protected by this amendment,
unlesa there are circumstances vhich exclude the right. There
are, however, certain powers, existing in the. sovereignty of
each State in the Union, somewhat vaguely termed pilice
powers, the exact description and limitation of wbach have not
been attempted by the courts. Those powers, broadly itated
and without, at present, any attempt at a more specific limitation, relate to the safety, -health, morals and general welfare
of the public. Both property and liberty are held on such
reasonable conditions as maybe imposed by the governing
power of the State m the exercise of those powers, and with
such conditions the Fourteenth Amendment wa not designed
to interfere. Mugler v Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, In re Kemmier,
136 U. S. 436, Crowley v. Chnstensen. 137 U S.. 86, In fe Con-,
verse, 137 U. S. 624.
The State, therefore, has power to prevent the individual
from making certain kinds of contracts, and in regard to them
the Federal Constitution offers no protection. If the contract
be one which the State, in the legitimate exercise of its police
power, has the right to prohibit, it is not prevented from
prohibiting it by the Fourteenth Amendment. Contracts in
violation of a statute, either of the Federal .or state govern-'
ment, or a contract to let one's property for immoral purposes,
or to do any other unlawful act, could obtain no protection
from the Federal Constitition, as coming under the libierty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

person or of free coitract. Therefore, when the State, by its
legislature, in the assumed exercise of its police powers, has
passed an act which seriously limits the right to labor or the
right of contract in regard to their means of livelihood between persons who are sus 3urs (both employer and employd),
it becomes of great inportance to determine which shall prevail-the right of the individual to labor for such time as he
may choose, or the right of the State to prevent the individual
from laboring- or from entering into any contract to labor,
beyond a certain time prescribed by the State.
This court has recognized the existence and upheld the
,-exercise of the police powers of the States in many cases which
might fairly be considered as border ones, and it has, in the
course of its determination of questions regarding the asserted
invalidity of such statutes, on the ground of their violation
of the rights secured by the Federal Constitution, been guided
by rules 6f a very liberal nature, the application of Which has
resulted, in numerous instances, in upholding the validity of
state statutes thus assailed. Among the later cases where thestate law has been upheld by this court is that of Holdem v
Hardy, 169 U S.366. A provision in the act of the legislature
of Utah was there under consideration, the act limiting the
eiiiployment of workmen in all underground mines or work"mgs, to eight hours.per day, "except in cases of emergency,
where life or property is in immient danger." It also limited
the hours of labor in smelting and other institutions for the
reduction or refining of ores or metals to eight hours per day,
except in like cases of-emergency The act was held to be a
valid exercise of the police powers of the State. A review of
many of the cases on the subject, decided -by this and other
courts, is givenin the opinion. It was held that the kind of
employment, mining, smelting, etc., and the character of the
employds in such kinds of labor, were such as to make it reasonable and proper for the State to interfere to prevent the
employ~s from being constrained by the rules laid down by
the proprietors in regard to labor. The following citation

LOOHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

from the observations df the Supreme Court of Utah in that
case was made by the judge writing the opinion of this court,
and approved. "The law in question is confined to the protection of that class of people engaged in labor in underground
mines, and in smelters and other works wherein ores are reduced and refined. This law applies only to the classes subjected by their employment to the peculiar conditions, and'
effects attending underground mining and work in smelters,
and other works for the reduction and refining of ores. Therefore it is not necessary to discuss or decide whether the legislature can fix the hours of labor in other employments."
It will be observed *that, even with regard to that class of
labor, the 'Utah statute provided for cases of emergency
wherein the provisions of the statute would not apply The
statute now before this court has no emergency clause in it,
and, if the statute is valid, there are no circumstances and no
emergencies under which the slightest violation of the provisions of the act would be innocent. There is nothing in
Holden v Hardy which covers the case now before us. Nor
-does At/n v Kansas, 191 U S. 207, touch the case at bar.
The At/n case was decided upon the right of the State to control its municipal corporations and to prescribe the conditions
upon which it will permit work of a public character to be
done for a municipality Knoxville Iron Co. v, Harbson, 183
U. S. 13, is equally far from an authority for this legislation.
The employ6s in that case were held wo be at a disadvantage.
with the employer in matters of wages, they being mmers aiud
coal workers, and-the act simply provided for the cashing of
coal orders when presented by the miner to the employer.
The latest case decided by this court, involving the police
power, is that of Jacobson v Massachusetts, decided at this
term and reported in 197 U S. 11. It related to compulsory
vaccination, and the law was held valid as a proper exercise of
the police powers with reference to the public health. It was
stated in the opinion .that it was a case "of an adult who, for
aught, that appears, was himself in perfect health and a fit

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

subject for vaccination, and yet, while remaining in the community, refused to obey the statute and the regulation adopted
in execution -f its provisions for the protection of the public
health and the public safety, confessedly endangered by the
presence of a dangerous disease." That case is also far from
covering the one now before the court.
Petit v Minnesota, 177 U S. 164, was upheld as a proper
exercise of the police power relating to the observance of
Sunday, and the case held that the legislature had the right
to declare that, as matter of law, keeping barber shops open
on Sunday was not a work of necessity or charity
It must, of course, be conceded that there is a limit to the
valid exercise of the police power by the State. There is no
dispute concerning this general proposition. Otherwise the
Fourteenth Amendment would have no efficacy and the legislatures of the States would have unbounded power, and it
would be enough to say that any piece of legislation was enacted
to conserve the morals, the health or the safety of the people;
such legislation would be valid, no matter how absolutely
without foundation the clam might be. The claim of the
police power would be a mere pretext-become another and
delusive name for the supreme sovereignty of the State to be
exercised free from constitutional restraint. This is not contended for. In every case that comes before this court, therefore, where legislation of this character is concerned and where
the protection of the Federal Constitution is sought, the question necessarily arises: Is this a fair, reasonable and appropriate
exercise of the police power of the State, or is it an unreasonable, unnecessary and arbitrary interference with the right of
the individual to his personal liberty or to enter into those
contracts in relation to labor which may seem to him appropriate or necessary for the support .of himself and his family?
Of course the liberty of contract relating to labor includes both
parties to it. The one has as much right to purchase as the
other to sell labor.
This'is not a question of substituting the judgment of the

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

court for that of the legislature. If the act.be within the power
of the State it is valid, although the judgment of the court
might be totally opposed to the enactment of such a law But
the question would still remain. Is it within the police power
of the State? and that question must be answered by the court.
The question whether this act is valid as a labor law, pure
and -simple, may be dismissed in a few words. There is no
reasonable ground for interfering with the liberty of person
or the right of free contract, by determining the hours of labor,
in the occupation of a baker. There is no contention that
bakers as a class are not equal in intelligence and capacity to
men in other trades or manual occupations, or that they are
not able to assert their rights and care for themselves without
the protecting arm of the State, interfering with their mdependence of judgment and of action. They are in no sense
wards of the State. Viewed m the light of a purely labor law,
with no reference whatever to the question of health, we think
that a law like the one before us involves neither the .safety,
the morals nor the welfare 64h the-public, and that the interest
of the .public is not m theslightest degree affected by such an
act. The law must be upheld,:if at all, as a law pertaining to
the health of the individual engaged in the occupation of a
baker. It does not affect any other portion of the public than
those who are engaged in that occupation. Clean and wholesome bread does not depend upon whether the baker works
but ten hours per day or only sixty hours a week. The limitation of the hours of labor does not come within the police uower
on that ground.
It is a question of which of two powers or rights shall prevail
-the power of the State to legislate or the right of the individual to liberty of person and freedom of contract. The mere
assertion that the subject relates though but in a remote degree
to the public health does not necessarily render the enactment
valid. The act must have a more direct relation, as a means
to an end, and the end itself must be appropriate and legitimate, before an act can be held to be valid which interferes

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

with the general right of an individual to be free m his person
and in his power to contract in relation to his own labor.
This case has caused much diversity of opinion in the state
courts. In the Supreme Court two of the five judges composing the Appellate Division dissented from the judgment affirming the validity of the act. In the Court of Appeals three of
the seven judges also dissented from the judgment upholding
the statute. Although found in what is called a labor law of
the State, the Court of Appeals has upheld the act-as one relating to the publichealth-rn other words, as a health law
One of the judges of the Court of Appeals, in upholding the
law, stated that, in his opinion, the regulation in question could
not be sustained unless they were able to say,.from common
knowledge, that working in a bakery and candy factory was
an unhealthy employment. The judge held that, while the
evidence was not uniform, it still led him'to the conclusion that
the occupation of a baker or confectioner was unhealthy and
-tended to result in diseases of the respiratory organs. Three
of the jffdges dissented from that view, and they thought the
occupation of a baker was not to such an extent unhealthy as
to warrant the interference of the legislature with the liberty
of the individual.
We think the limit of the police power has been reached and
passed in this case.- There is, in our judgment, no reasonable
foundation for holding this to be necessary or appropriate as
a health law to safeguard the public health or the health of the
individuals who are-following the trade of a baker. If this
statute be valid, and if,, therefore, a proper case is made out in
which to deny the right of an individual, suz jurms, as employer or employ6, to make contracts for the labor of the
latter under the protection of the provisions of the Federal
Constitution, there would seem to be no length to which legislation of this nature might not go. The case differs widely,
as we have already stated, from the expressions of this court
in regard to laws of this nature, as stated in Holden v Hardy
and Jacobson v Massachusetts, supra.

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We think that there can be no fair doubt that the trade of
a baker, in and of itself, is not an unhealthy one to that degree
which would authorize the legislature to interfere with the right
to labor, and with the right of free contract on the part of the
individual, either as employer or employ6. In looking through
statistics regarding all trades and occupations, it may be true
that the trade of a baker does not appear to be as healthy as
some other trades, and is also vastly more healthy than still
others. To the common understanding the trade of a baker
has never been regarded as an unhealthy one. Very likely
physicians would not recommend the exercise of that or of any
other trade as a remedy for ill health. Some occupations are
riore healthy than others, but we think there are none which
might not come under the power of the legislature to supervise
and control the hours of working therein, if the mere fact that
the occupation is not absolutely and perfectly healthy is to
confer that right upon the legislative department of the Government. It might be safely affirmed that almost all occupations more or less affect the health. There must be more than
the mere fact of the possible existence of.some small amount
of unhealthiness to warrant legislative interference with liberty.
It is unfortunately true that labor, even in any department,
may possibly carry with it the seeds of unhealthiness. But
are we all, on that account, at the mercy of legislative majorities? A printer, a tinsmith, a locksmith, a carpenter, a
cabinetmaker, a dry goods clerk, a bank's, a lawyer's or a
physician's alerk, or a clerk in almost any kind of business,
would all come under the power of the legislature, on this
.assumption. No trade, no occupation, no mode of earning
one's living, could escape this all-pervading power, and the
acts of the legislature. in limiting the hours of labor in all
employments would be valid, although such limitation might
seriously cripple the ability of the laborer to support himself
and his family In our large cities there are many buildings
into which the-sun penetrates for but a short time in each day,
and these buildings are occupied by people carrying on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

business of bankers, brokers, lawyers, real estate, and many
other kinds of business, aided by many clerks, messengers,
and other employ~s. Upon the assumption of the validity of
this act under review, it is not possible to say that an act,
prohibiting lawyers' or bank clerks, or others, from contractmgf.o labor for their employers more than eight hours a day,
would be invalid. It might be said that it is unhealthy to
work more than that number of hours in an apartment lighted
by artificial light during the working hours of the day; that
the occupation of the bank clerk, the lawyer's clerk, the real
estate clerk, or the broker's clerk in such offices is therefore
unhealthy, and the legislature in its paternal wisdom must,
therefore, have -the right to legislate on the subject of and to
limit the hours for such labor, and if it exercises that power
and its validity be questioned, it is sufficient to say, it has
reference to the public health, it has reference to the health
of the employ~s condemned to labor day after day in buildings where the sun never shines; it is a health law, and therefore it is valid, and cannot be questioned by the courts..
It is also urged, pursuing the same line of argument, that it
is tD the interest of the State that its population should be
strong and robust, and.therefore any legislation which may be
said to tend to make people healthy must be valid as health
laws, enacted under the police power. If this be a valid argument and ,ajustification for this kind of legislation, it follows
that the protection of the Federal Constitution from undue
interference with liberty of person and freedom of contract is
visionary, wherever the law is sought to be justified as a valid
exercise of the police power. Scarcely any law but might find
shelter under such assumptions, and conduct, properly so
called, as well as contract, would come under the restrictive
sway of the legislature. Not only the hours of employ~s, but
the hours of employers, could be regulated, and doctors,
lawyers, scientists, all professional men, as well as athletes
and artisans, could be forbidden to fatigue their brains and
bodies by prolonged hours of exercise, lest the fighting strength

LOCELNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

9pinon of the Court.

of the State be impaired. We mention these extreme cases
because the. contention is extreme. ( We do not believe in the
soundness 6f the views which uphold this law. On the contrary, we think that such a law as this, although passed in the
assumed exercise of the police power, and as relating to the
public health, or the health of the employ~s named, is not
within that power, and is invalid. The act is not, within any
fair meaning of the term, a health law, but is an illegal interference with the rights of individuals, both employers and
employ6s, to make contracts regarding labor upon such terms
as they may thmnI best, or which they may agree upon with
the other parties to such contracts. Statutes of the nature of
that under review, limiting the hours in which grown and
inteligent men may labor to earn their living, are mere meddlesome interferences with the rights of the individual, and
they are not saved from condemnation by the claim that they
are passed in the exercise of the police power and upon the
subject of the health of the individual -whose rights are interfered with, unless there be some fair ground, reasonable in and
of itself, to say that there is material danger to the public
health or to the health of the employ6s, if the hours of labor
are not curtailed. If this be not clearly the case the mdividuals, whose rights are thus made the subject of legislative
interference, are under the protection of the Federal Constitution regarding their liberty of contract as well as of person,
and the legislature of the State has ho power to limit their
right as proposed in this statute. All that it could properly
do has been done by it with regard to the conduct of bakeries,
as provided for in the other sections of the act, above set forth.
These several sections provide for the mspection'of the premises where the bakery is carried on, with regard to furnishing
proper wash-rooms and water-closets, apart from the bakeroom, also with regard to providing proper drainage, plumbing
addition, provide for the height
and painting; the sections, in"
tiling of floors, where necessary
or
cementing
the
of the ceiling,
in the opinion of the factory inspector, and for other things of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

198 U. S.

that nature, alterations are also provided for and are to be
made where necessary -m the opinion of the inspector, in order
to comply with the provisions of the statute. These various
sections may be wise and valid regulations, and they certainly
go to the full extent of providing for the cleanliness and the
healthiness, so far as possible, of the quarters in which bakeries
are to be conducted. Adding to all these requirements, a
prohibition to enter into any contract of labor in a bakery for
more than a certain number of hours a week, is, in our judgment, so wholly beside the matter of a proper, reasonable and
fair provision, as to run counter t6 that liberty of -person and
of free contract provided for in the Federal Constitution.
It was further urged on the argument that restricting the
hours of labor in the. case of bakers was valid because it tended
to cleanliness on the part of the workers, as a man was more
apt to be cleanly when not overworked, and if cleanly then his
"output" was also more likely to be so. What has already been
said applies with equal force to this contention. We do not
admit the reasoning to be sufficient to justify the claimed right
of such interference. The State in that case would assume the
position of a supervisor, or pater amilias, over every act of
the individual, and its right of governmental interference with
his hours of labor, his hours of exercise, the character thereof,
and the extent to which it shall be carried would be recognized
and upheld. In our judgment it is not possible in fact to
discover the connection between the number of hours a baker
may work in the bakery and the healthful quality of the bread
made by the workman. The connection, if any exists, is too
shadowy and thin to build any argument for the interference
of the legislature. If the man works t~n hours a day it is all
right, but if ten and a half or eleven his health is in danger
and his bread may be unhealthful, and, therefore, he shall not
be permitted to do it. This, we think, is unreasonable and
entirely arbitrary When assertions such as we have adverted
to become necessary in order to give, if possible, a plausible
foundation for the contention that the law is a "health law,"

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

it gives rise to at least a suspicion 'hat there was some other
motive dominating the legislature than the purpose to subserve the public health or welfare.
This interference on the part of the legislatures of the several
States with the ordinary trades and occupations of the people
seems to be on the increase. In the Supreme Court of New
York, in the case of People v Beattze, Appellate Division, First
Department, decided in 1904, 89 N. Y Supp. 193, a-statute
regulating the trade of horseshoeing, and requiring the.person
practicing such trade to be examined and to obtain a certificate from a board of examiners and file the same with the
clerk of the county wherein the person proposes to practice
such trade, was held invalid, as an arbitrary interference with
personal liberty and private property without due process of
law The attempt was made, unsuccessfully, to justify it as
a health law
The same kind of a statute was held invalid (In re Aubry)
by the Supreme Court of Washington in December, 1904.
78 Pac. Rep. 900. The court held that the act deprived citizens of their liberty and property without due process of law
and denied to them the equal protection of the laws. It also
held that the trade of a horseshoer is not a subject of regulation
under the police power of the State, as a business concerning
and directly affecting the health, welfare or comfort of its
inhabitants; and that therefore a law which provided for the
examination and registration of horseshoers in certain cities
was unconstitutional, as an illegitimate exercise of the police
power.
The Supreme Court of Illinois in Bessette v People, 193
Illinois, 334, also held that a law of the same nature, providing
for the regulation and licensing of horseshoers, was unconstitutional as an illegal interference with the liberty of the
individual in adopting and pursuing such calling as he may
choose, subject-only to the restraint necessary to secure the
common welfare. See also Godcharles v Wigeman, 113 Pa. St.
431, 437, Low v Rees PrnhngCo., 41 Nebraska, 127, 145. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

198 U. S.

these cases the courts upheld the right of free contract and
the right to purchase and sell labor upon such terms as the
parties may agree to.
It is impossible for us to shut our eyes to the fact that many
of the laws of this character, while passed under what is claimed
to be the police power for the purpose of protecting the public
health or welfare, are, in reality, passed from other motives.
We are justified m saying so when, from the character of the
law and the subject upon which it legislates, it is apparent that
the public health or welfare bears but the most remote relation
to the law The purpose of a statute must be determined from
the natural and legal effect of the language employed; and
whether it is or is not repugnant -to the Constitution of the
United States must be determined from the natural effect of
.such statutes when put into operation, and not from their
proclaimed purpose. Minnesota v Barber, 136 U S. 313,
Brmmer v Rebman, 138 U. S.78. The court looks beyond
the mere letter of the'law in such cases. Yick Wo v Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356.
It is manifest to us that the limitation of the hours of labor
as provided for in this section of the statute under which the
indictment was found, and the plaintiff m error convicted,
has no such direct relation to and no such substantial effect
upon the health of the employ6, as to justify us in regarding
the section as really a health law It seemsto us that the real
object and purpose were simply to regulate the hours of labor
between the master and his employ6s (all being men, sui 3uris),
in a private business, ibt dangerous in any degree to morals
or in any real and substantial degree, to the health of the employ~s. Under such circumstances the freedom of master and
employ6 to contract with each other in relation to their employment, and m defining the same, cannot be prohibited or
interfered with, without violating the Federal Constitution.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of New York as well
as that of the Supreme Court and of the County Court of
Oneida County must be reversed and the case remanded to

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
19.3 U. S.

HARLANr, Wm ri and DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

the County Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTicE HARLAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE' WHITE and
MR. JUSTICE DAY concurred, dissenting.

While this court has not attempted to mark the precise
boundaries of what is called the police power of the State, the
existence of the power has been uniformly recognized, both
by the Federal and state courts.
All the cases agree that this power extends at least to the
protection of the lives, the health.and the safety of the public
against the injurious exercise by any citizen of his own rights.
In Pattersonv Kentucky, 97 U S. 501, after referring to the
general principle that rights given by the Constitution cannot
be impaired by state legislation of any kind, this court said.
"It [this court] has, nevertheless, with marked distinctness
and uniformity, recognized the necessity, growing out of the
fundamental conditions of civil society, of upholding state
police regulations which were enacted in good faith, and had
appropriate and direct connection with that protection to
life, health, and property which each State owes to her citizens." Sc in Barbwr v Connolly, 113 U S. 27 "But neither
the [14th] Amendment-broad and comprehensive as it isnor any other Amendment was-designed to interfere with the
power of the State, sometimes termed its police power, to
prescribe regulations to promote the health, peace, morals,
education, and good order of the people."
Speaking generally, the State in the exercise of its powers
may not unduly interfere with the right of the citizen to enter
into contracts that, may be necessary and essential in the
enjoyment of the inherent rights belonging to every one,
among which rights is the right "to be free in the enjoyment of
all his faculties; to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live
and work where he will, to earn his livelihooa by any lawful
calling; to pursue any livelihood or avocation." This was de
VOL. CXOVIII-5

-OCTOBER. TERM, 1904.
HA.I&N, WHITE and DAY, JJ.,. dissenting.

198 U. S.

clared in Allgeyer v Louisiana, 165 U S. 578, 589. But in
the same case it-was conceded that the right to contract in
relation to persons and property or to do *business, within a
State, nay be "regulated and sometimes prohibited, when the
contracts or business conflict with the policy of the State as
contained in its statutes" (p. 591).
So, as said in Holden v Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391. "This
right of contract, however, -is itself sukject to certain limitations which the State may lawfully impose in the exercise of
its police powers. While this power is inherent in all governments, it has doubtless been greatly expanded in its application during the past century, owing to an enormous mcrease In
the number of occupations which are dangerous, or so fai
detrimental to the health of -the employ6s as to demand special
precautions for their well-being and protection, or the .safety
of adjacent property While this court has held, notably in
the cases of Davidson v New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, and Yick
Wo v Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356, that the police power annot be
put forward as an excuse for oppressive and unjust legislation,
it may be lawfully resorted to for the purpose of preserving
the public health, safety or morals, or the abatement of public
nuisances, and a large discretion 'is necessarily vested in the
legislature to determine not only what the interests of the public require, but what measures are necessary for the protection
of such interests.' Lawton v, Steele, 152 U S. 133,. 13fi."
Referring to the limitations placed by the State upon thehours
of workmin, the court in the same case said (p. _395) "Th&
employments, when too long pursued, the legislatur6 has judged
to be detrimental to the health of the employ6s, and, so long
as there are reasonable grounds for believng that this is so,
its decisiorf upon this subject cannot be reviewed by the
Federal courts."
Subsequently in Gundling v Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, f88.
this court said. "Regulations respecting the pursuit of a lawful
trade or business are of very frequent occurrence.n the various
cities of the country, and what such regulations shall be and

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

HAuAN,

'Wnm and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

to what particular trade, business or occupation they shall
apply, are questions for the State to determine, and their determination comes within the proper exercise of the police power
by the State, and unless the regulations are so utterly unreasonable and extravagant in their nature and purpose that the
property and personal rights of the citizen are unnecessarily,
and in a manner wholly arbitrary, interfered with or destroyed
without due process of law, they do not extend beyond the
power of the State to pass, and they form no subject for Federal interference.
"As stated in Crowley v Chmstensen, 137 U S. 86, 'the
possession and enjoyment of all rights are subject to such
reasonable conditions as may be deemed by the governing
authority of the country essential, to the shfety, health, peace,
good order and morals of the community'"
In St. Louis, Iron Mountain &c. Ry. v Paul, 173 U' S. 404,
409, and in Knoxille Iron Co. v Harbison,183 U. S. 13, 21, 22,
it was distinctly adjudged that the right of contract was not
"absolutem respect to every matter, but may be subjected
to the restraints demanded by the safety and welfare of the
State." Those cases illustrate the extent to which the-'State
may restrict or mterfere with the exercise of the right of con'tracting.
The authorities on the same line are so numerous that
further citations are unnecessary
I take it to be firmly established that what is called the
liberty of. contract may, within certain limits, be subjected to
regulations designed and calculated to promote the general
welfare or to guard the public health, the public morals or the
public safety . "The liberty secured by the Constitution of
the United States to every person within its jurisdiction does
not import," this court has recently said, "an absolute right
in each person to be, at all times and in all circumstances,
wholly freed from restraint. There are manifold restraints
to which every person is necessarily subject for the common
good." Jacobson v Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11.

OQTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLA,

Wnrrm and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

Granting then that there is a liberty of contract which cannot be violated even under the sanction of direct legislative
enactment, but assuming, as according to settled law we may
assume, that such liberty of contract is subject to such regulations as the State may reasonably prescribe for the common
good and the well-being of society, what are the conditions
under which the judiciary may declare such regulations to be
in excess of legislative authority and void? Upon this point
there is no room for.dispute, for, therule is universal that a
legislative enactment, Federal. or state, is never to be disregarded or held invalid unless it be, beyond question, plainly
-sand palpably in excess of legiaative power. In Jacbbson v.
Massachusettq, supra,,we said that the power of the courts to
review legislative action in respect of a matter affecting the
general welfare exists only "when that which the legislature
has doine comes within the rule that if a statute purporting to
have been enacted to protect the public health, the public
morals or the public safety, has no real or substantial relation
to those objects, or is, beyond all question, a plain, palpable
invasion of rights secured by the fundamental law"--citing
Mugler v Kansas, 123 U S. 623, 661, Minnesota v Barber, 136
U S. 313, 320 Atkrn v--Kansas, 191 U S. 207, 223. If there
be doubt as to' the validity of the statute, that doubt must
therefore be resolved in favor of its validity, and the courts
must keep their hands off, leaving the legislature to meet the
responsibility for unwise legislation. If the end which the
legislature seeks to accomplish be one to which its power
extends, and if the means employed to that end, although not
the wisest or best, are yet not plainly and palpably unauthorized by law, then the court cannot interfere. In other words,
when the validity of a statute is questioned, the burden of
proof, so to speak, is upon those who assert it to be unconstitutional. McCulloch v Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421.
Let. these principles be applied to the present case. By the
statute in question it is provded that, "No employ6 shall be
required or permitted to work in a biscuit, bread or cake

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

HAIIIw, WHITE

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

bakery or confectionery establishment more than sixty hours
in any one week, or more than ten hours in any one day, unless
for the purpose of making a shorter work day on the last day
of the week; nor more hours in any one week than will pnake
an average of ten hours per day for the number of days during
such week in which such employ6 shall work."
It is plain that this statute was enacted in order to protect
the physical well-being of those who work in bakery and confectionery establishments. It may be that the statute had
its origin, in part, in the belief that employers and employ6s
in such establishments were not upon an equal footing, and
that the necessities of the latter often compelled them to
submit to such exactions as unduly taxed their strength. Be
this as it may, the statute must be taken as expressing the
belief of the people of New York that, as a general rule, and
in the case of the average man, labor in excess of sixty hours
during a week in such establishments may endanger the health
of those who thus labor. Whether or not this be wise legislation.it is not the province of the court to inquire. Under our
systems of government the courts are not concerned with the
wisdom or policy of'legislation. So that in determining the
question of power to interfere with liberty of. contzact, the court
may mquire whether the means devised by the State are
germane to an end which may be lawfully accomplished and
have a real or substantial relation to the protection- of health,
as involved in the daily work of the persons, male and female,
engaged in bakery and confectionery establishments. But
when this inquiry is entered upon I find it impossible; in view
of common experience, to say that there. is here no real or substantial relation between. the means employed by the State
and the end sought to be accomplished by its legislation.
Mugler v. Kansas, supra. Nor can I say that the statute has
no appropriate or direct connection with that protection to
health which each State owes to her citizens, Patterson v
Kentucky, supra; or that it is not promotive of the health of
the employ6s in question, Holden v Hardy, Lawton v Steele,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HAwAN, WHrE and DAY, 33., dissenting.

198 U: S.

supra; or that the regulation prescribed by the State is utterly
unr~easonable and extravagant or wholly arbitrary, Gundling
v Chwago, supra. Still less can I say that the statute is,
beyond question, a plain, palpable invasion of rights secured
by the fundamental law Jacobson v Massachusetts, supra.
Therefore I submit that this court will transcend its functions
if it assumes to annul the statute of New York. It mfist be
remembered. that this statute does not apply tQ all kinds of
business. It applies only to work in bakery and0confectionery
establishments, in which, as all know, the air constantly
breathed by workmen is not as pure and healthful as that to
be found in some other establishments or out of doors.
Professor Hirt in-his treatise on the "Diseases of the Workers" has said. "The labor of the bakers is among the hardest
and most'laborious imaginable, because it has to be perforfhed
under conditions injurious to the health of those engaged in
it. It is hard, very hard work, not only because it requires a
great deal of physical exertion m an overheated workshop and
during unreasonably long hours, but more so because of the
erratic demands of the public, compelling the baker to perform
the greater part of his work at night, thus depriving Ln of an
opportunity to enjoy the necessary rest and sleep, a fact which
is highly injurious to his health." Another writer says: "The
constant inhaling of flour dust causes inflammation of the
lungs and of the bronchial tubes. Theeyes also suffer through
this dust, which is responsible for the many cases of running
eyes among the bakers. The long hours of toil to which all
bakers are subjected produce rheumatism, cramps and swollen
legs. The intense heat in the workshops induces the workers
to resort to cooling drinks, which together with their habit of
exposing the greater part of their bodies to the changeim the
atmosphere, is another source of a number of diseases of varioub'
organs. Nearly all bakers are -pale-faced and of more delicate
health than the workers of other crafts, which is chiefly due
to their hard work and their irregular and unnitural mode of
living, whereby the power of resistance against disease is

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

HAA,

W im and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

greatly diminished. The average age of a baker is below that
of other workmen, they seldom live over their fiftieth year,
most of them dying between the ages of forty and fifty During periods of epidemic diseases the bakers are generall 7 the
first to succumb to the disease, and the number swept away
during such periods far exceeds the number of other crafts in
comparison to the men employed in the-respective industries.
When,.m 1720, the plague visited the city of Marseilles, France,
every baker in the city succumbed to the epidemic, which
caused considerable excitement in the'neighborng cities and
.resultdd in measures for the sanitary protection of the bakers."
In the Eighteenth Annual Report by the New York Bureau
of Statistics of Labor it is stated that among the occupations
involving exposure to"conditions that interfere with nutrition
is that of a baker (p. 52). In that Report it is also stated
that "from a social point of view, production will be increased
"by any change in industrial orgamzation which diminishes the
number of idlers, paupers and criminals. Shorter hours of
work,/by allowing higher standards of comfort and purer
family life, promise to enhance the .industrial efficiency of the
wage-working class-improved health, longer life, more content and greater intelligence and inventiveness" (p. 82).
Statistics show that the average daily working time among
workingmen in different countries is, in Australia, 8 hours;
m Great Britain, 9; in the United States, 91, in Denmark, 91,
m Norway, 10; Sweden, -France and Switzerland, 10J, Germany, 101, Belgium, Italy and Austria, 11, and in Russia,
12.,hours.
We judicially know that the question of the number of hours
during which a workman should continuously labor has been,
for a long period, and is yet, a subject of serious -consideration
among civilized peoples, and by those having special knowledge of -the laws of health. Suppose the statute .prohibited
labor in bakery and confectionery establishments in excess of
eighteen hours each day No one, I take it, could dispute the
power of the State to enact such a statute. But the statute

O(TOBER TERM, 1904.
HAmAw, Wium and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

198 U. S.

before us does not embrace extreme. or exceptional cases. It
may be said to occupy a middle ground in respect of the hours
of labor. What is the true ground for the State to take-between legitimate protection, by legislation, of the public health
and liberty of contract is not a question easily solved, nor one
in respect of which there is or can be absolute certainty There.
are very few, if any, questions in political economy about which
entire certainty may be predicated. One writer on relation of
the State to, labor has well said. "The manner, occasion, and
degree in which the State may interfere with the industrial
-freedom of its citizens is one of the most debatable and difficult questions of social science." Jevons, 33.
We also jjidicially know that the number of hours that
should constitute a day's labor in particular occupations involving the physical strength and safety of workmen has been
the subject of enactments by Congress and by nearly all of the
States. Many, if not most,, of those enactments fix eight hours
as the proper basis of a day's labor.
I do not stop to consider whether -any particular view of this
economic question presents the sounder theory What the
precise facts are it may be difficult to say It is enough for the
determination of this case, and it is enough for this court to
know, that the question is one about which there is room for
debate and for an honest difference of opinion. There ar
many reasons of a weighty, substantial character, based upon
the experience of mankind, in support of the theory that, all
things considered, more than ten hours' steady work each day,
from week to week, in a bakery or confectionery establishment, may endanger the health, and shorten the lives of the.
workmen, thereby diminishing their physical and mental capcity to serve the State, and to provide for those dependeni
upon them.
If such reasons exist that ought to be the end of this case,
for the State is not amenable to the judiciary, in respect of it,
legislative enactments, unless such enactments are plainly,
palp, ly/'beyond all question, inconsistent with the Constitu-

LOCHNER ij. NEW YORK.
198 U.S.

HARLAN, WmTn

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

tion of the United States. We are not to presume that the
State of New York has acted'in bad faith. Nor can we assume
tha its legislature acted without due deliberation, or that it
did not determine this question upon the fullest attainable
information, and for the common good. We cannot say that
the State has acted without reason nor ought we to proceed
upon the theory that its action is a mere sham. Our duty, I
submit, is to sustain the statute as not being in conflict With
the Federal Constitution, for fbhA reason-and such is an allsdfficient reason-it is not shown to be plainly and palpably
inconsistent with that instrument. Let the State alone in the
management of its purely domestic affairs, so long as it does
not appear beyond all question that it has violated the Federal
Constitution. This view necessarily results from the principle
that the health and safety of the people of a State are primarily
for the State to guard and protect.
I take leave to say that the New York statute, in the particulars here involved, cannot be held to be in coriflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment, without enlarging the scope of the
Amendment far beyond its original purpose and without bringing under the supervision of this court matters which have
been supposed to belong exclusively to the legislative departments of the several States when exerting their conceded power
to guard the health and safety of, their citizens by such regulations as they in their wisdom deem best. Health laws of every
description constitute, said Chief Justice Marshall, a part of
that mass of legislation which "embraces everything within
the territory of a State, not surrendered to the General Government; all .which can be most advantageously exercised by
the States themselves." Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203.
A decision that the New York statute is void under the Fourteenth Amendment will, in my opinion, involve consequences
of a far-reaching and mischievous character; for such a decision would seriously cripple the inherent power of the States
to care for the lives, health and well-being of their citizens.
Those- are matters which can -be best controlled by the States.

OCTOBER.TERM, 1904.
HoLmES, J., dissenting.

198 U. S.

The preservation -of 'the just powers of the States is quite ag
vital ad the preservation of the powers of the General Government.
When this court had before it the question of the constitutionality of a statute of Kansas making it a criminal offense
for a contractor for public work to permit or require his employ6s to perform labor upon such work in excess of eight hours
each day, it was contended that the statute vas in derogation,
of the liberty both of employ6s and employer. It was further
contended^ that the Kansas statute- was mischievous in. its
tendencies. This court, while disposing of the question only
as it affected public work, held that the Kinsas statute was
not. void under the Fourteenth Amendment. But it -took
occasion to say what may well be here repeated. "The responsibility therefor rests upon legislators, not upon the courts.
iT.o evils arising from such legislation could be more farreaching than those that might come to our system of government if- th6 judiciary, abandoning the sphere assigned to
it by the fundamental law, should enter the domain of legislation, and upon grounds merely of justice or reason or wisdom
annul statutes that had. received the sanction of the people's
representatives. We are reminded by counsel that it -is the
solemn duty of. the courts in cases before them to guard the
*constitutioial rights of the citizen against merely arbitrary
power. That is unquestionably true. But it is equally true
-indeed, the public interests imperatively demand-that
legislative enactments should be recognized and enforced by
the courts as embodying the will of the people, unless they are
plainly and palpably, beyond all question, in violation of the
fundamental law of the Constitution." Atcn v Kansas, 191
U S. 207, 223.
The judgment in my opinion sh6uld be affirmed.
AIR. JUSTICE HOLMEs

dissenting.

I regret sincerely that I am unable to agree with the judg-

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

HoLMEs, J., dissenting.

ment in this case, and that I think it my duty to express my
dissent.
This case is decided upon an economic theory which a large
part of thecountry does not entertain. If it were a question
whether I agreed with that theory, I should desire to study it.
further and long before making up my mind. But I do not
conceive that to be my duty, because I strongly believe that
my agreement or disagreement has nothing to do with the.
right of a majority to embody their opinions in law It is
settled by various decisions of this court that state constitu-,
tions and state laws may regulate life in many ways, which we
as legislators might think as injudicious or if you like as
tyrannical as this, and which equally with this interfere with
the liberty to contract. Sunday laws and usury laws are
ancieit examples. A more modern one is the prohibition of
lotteries. The liberty of the citizen to do as he likes so long
as he does not interfere with the liberty of others to do the same,
which has been a shibboleth for some well-known writers, is
interfered with by school laws, by the Post Office, by ev,-:',
state or municipal institution which takes his nmoney for purposes thought desirable, whether he likes it or not. The
Fourteenth Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's
Social Statics, The other day we sustained the Massachusetts vaccination law Jacobson v Massachusetts, 197 U. S.
11. United States ana state statutes and decisions cutting
down the liberty to contract by way of combination are familiar to this court. Northern Securities Co. v United States,
193 U S. 197 Two years ago we upheld the prohibition of
sales of stock on margins or for future delivery in the constitution of California. Otis, v Parker, 187 U S. 606. The
decision sustaining an eight hour law for miners is still recent.
Holden v Hardy, 169 U. S. 366. Some of these laws embody
convictions or prejudices which judges are likely to share.
Some may not. But a constitution is not intended to embody
a particular economic theory, whether of paternalism and the
organic relation of the citizen to the State or of laissez fatre.

-OITOBER TERM, 1904.
HoLmEs, J., dissenting.

198 U. S.

It is made for people of fundamentally differing views, and the
accident of our finding certain opinions natural and familiar
or novel and even shocking ought not to concluae our judgment upon the question7'whether statutes embodying them
conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
General propositions do not decide concrete cases. The
decision7 will depend on a judgment or intuition more subtle
than any articulate major premise. But I think that the
proposition just stated, if it is accepted, will carry us far toward
the end. Every opmi6n tends to become a law I think that
the word liberty in the Fourteenth Amendment is perverted
when it is held to prevent the natural outcome of a dominant
opihion, unless it can be said that-a rational and fair man
necessarily would admit that the statute proposed would infringe fundamental principles as they have been understood
by' the traditions of our people and our law It does not need'
research to show that no such sweeping condemnation can be
passed upon the statute before us. A reasonable man might
think it a proper measure on the score of health. Men whom
I certainly could not pronounce unreasonable would uphold
it as a first instalment of a general regulation of the hours of
work. Whefher in the latter aspect it would be open to the
charge of utecalitv I think it unnecessary to discuss.

