OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

BIRRELL v. NEW YORK AND HARLEM RAILROAD
COMP-NY
KIERNS r

NEW YORK AND. HARLEM RAILROAD
COMPANY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nox. 202, 203.

Argued April 27, 28, 19M.-Deolded May 15,1905.

Afuhdker V,. harlem R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544, followed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr Alfred B. Cruikshank for plaintiffs in error.
Mr Ira A. Place and Mr Edward Winslow Pasge, with
whom Mr Thomas Emery was on the brief, for defendants m
error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error are owners of property on Park avenue
in the city of New York, and brought these actions in the
Supreme Court of the county of New York against the defendants in error for damages for the erection, and for an injunction against the continuance of, the viaduct described in
Muhlker v New York & Harlem Railroad Company, 197 U. S.
544. The Supreme Court found that the viaduct and the
operation of trams thereon were and had been from certain
dates which were mentioned, a continuous trespass upon the
easements of light, air and access appurtenant to the property
of plaintiffs in error, and that they sustained damages, respectively, as followg: Birrell in the sum of $3,360, depreciation
in the rental value of her property, and the sum of $7,050 damages to the fee, Patrick Kierns, as executor and trustee of

BIRRELL v. NEW YORK & HARLEM R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

391

Opinon of the Court.

John .Kierns, deceased, in the sum of $1,296, depreciation of
rental- value of his property, and $2,525 injury to the 'foe.
Money judgments were. entered for the depreciation of the
rental value of the respective properties, and it was decreed
that unless the right was acquired by the defendants to maintam the structure and operate the railroad by the payment
of the sums awarded for the damages to the fee, injunctions
should become operative against the structure and railroad.
The judgments were affirmed by the Appellate Division, but
were reversed by the Court- of Appeals. Upon the return of
the cases to the Supreme Court judgments were entered dismissing the complaints and these writs of error were then sued
out.
In the Birrell case the Court of Appeals contented itself with
a simple reversal of the 'judgment; in the Kierns case a per
curam opinion was filed as follows:
"Judgment reversed and the complaint dismissed, without
costsi upon the authority of Frees v New York & Harlem
R. R. Co., 169 N. Y 270, and Muhlker v New York & Harlem
R. R. Co., 173 N. Y 549."
Judge V~nn filed a concurring opinion, which he concluded
as follows:
"I concurred in the dissenting opinion of Judge Cullen in
the Fres case and should have concurred in that of Judge Bartlett m the Muhlker case had I sat when it was -argued, but I
regard the question -as now settled, and by the rule of stare
decists I am compelled to vote for reversal."
The Muhlker case camne to this court 'and was reversed,
197 U S. 544. There are some differences in the facts in the
cases at bar from that case, but none in our judgment which
withdraw them from the principles, there expressed. And,
as we have seen, a substantial identity- in the cases was pro'nounced by the courts of New York.
Counsel, it is true, hav submitted some additional considerations based on the act. of 189-under which the viaduct
was erected, and on other laws of New York, to which con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

198 U. S.

siderations we have given due attention, but we do not think
they demand or would justify a change of our ruling.
It follows, therefore, that the judgments should be and
they are hereby reversed, and the causes remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent -with this opinion.

The CHIEF JUSTICE,
HAM

MR. JUSTICE WHIrE, MR.. JUSTICE PECKand MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent.

SAVANNAH,

THUNDERBOLT AND ISLE OF HOPE
RAILWAY v. SAVANNAH.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 238. Argued April 28,1905.-Decided Iay 15,1905.
There is no foundation for the jurisdiction of'this court to review the judgment of the highest court of a State refusing to.restrain the collection
of a tax the imposition of which is not authorized by any law of the State.
Barney v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 430.
A classification which distinguishes 'between an ordinary street railway,
and a steam railroad, making an extra charge for local deliveries of
freight brought over its road from outside the city, held, under the facts
of this case, not to be such a classification as to make the tax void under
the Fourteenth Amendment because it denies the street railway" the
equal protection of the law, or deprives it of its property without due
process of law.
Where none of the expressions m a contract between a street railway company and. the mumcijpality m regard to the extension of company's
tracks for the better advantage of, and affording more facilities to, the
public, import any exemption from taxation, the subsequent imposition
of a tax, otherwise valid, is not invalid under the impairment of obligation clause of the Constitution.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr Davwi C.. Barrow, with whom Mr. George A. King was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error"
This tax is imposed on the plaintiff in error because it does
business in the city of Savannah, and for the use of the streets

