OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

DUNBAR v. GREEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 200. Submitted April 6,1905.-Decided May 1,1906.
The guardian of an Indian minor appointed in a county of Kansas, other
than that in which the land was situated, gave a deed to his ward's property; the grantees did not take possession or exercise any act of-owner,ship for thirty years, when the original owner took possession of the
land which was still vacant and ununproved, and for the first time asserted the invalidity of his guardian's deed; thereupon the grantees
under the guardian's deed brought ejectment; the defendant answered
by general denial and also by cross-petition asked for equitable relief
quieting the title and declaring his guardian's deed void; the state court
held the deed void but awarded possession to the grantees thereunder
on the ground of the ward's laches.
Held, error; that in an action of ejectment plaintiff must recover on the
strength of his own title and not on the weakness of defendant's, and that
the rule is not affected in this case by the fact that the defendants, by
cross-petition, had asked for equitable relief.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought September 22, 1900,
in the District Court of Wyandotte County by defendants in
error, who were plaintiffs below, to recover possession of certam lots of land in the city of Argentine. The case was tried
upon an agreed state of facts, substantially as follows:
The land was patented December 28, 1859, to Susan Whitefeather, as the head of a family, consisting of herself and her
son, George Washington, who were members of the Shawnee
tribe of Indians. The patent was issued under the treaty of
May 10, 1854 (Indian Treaties, p. 792), with the Shawnees.
Whitefeather died prior to July 10, 1862, and her son George
Washington inherited the land. On November 27, 1867, he
being then fourteen years of age, the Probate Court of Johnson
County appointed Jonathan Gore as his guardian, though the
land was in Wyandotte County In these proceedings Washington is described as the minor heir of George and Judy

DUNBAR -v. GREEN.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

Washington. Under such appointment the guardian sold the
land to one Joel F Kinney for $2,000, executing to him a
guardian's deed, which was approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, May 21, 1869, and the title so acquired by Kinney
passed by a series of conveyances to the plaintiffs Green. Inthese proceedings for a sale Gore described himself as guardian
of George Washington, the minor heir of Susan Whitefeather,
deceased. Washington remained a member of the Shawnee
tribe until September 26, 1900, when he was made a citizen of
the United States. He took no steps to impugn the validity
of the guardian's deed until June 25, 1895, when, according to
the agreed statement of facts, the defendant Dunbar took
possession of the land as his agent. Up to this time it had
remained vacant and unimproved. Plaintiffs recovered judgment, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 66 Kansas,
557
Mr L. F Bird and Mr. H. G. Pope for defendants in error.
There was no brief for plaintiffs in error.
MR. JusTIcE BRowN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The deed of Jonathan Gore, guardian, to Joel F. Kinney,
dated October 14, 1868, of property situated in Wyandotte
County, was attacked upon the ground.
1. That Gore was never appointed guardian of the defendant, George Washington, who was the son of Susan Whitefeather, but was app oited by the Probate Court of Johnson
County as the guardian of George Washington, while another
person, named Elizabeth Longtail, was on July 9, 1862, appointed by the Probate Court of Wyandotte County the guardian
of apparentlYr another George Washington, the minor son of
George and Judy Washimgton, who lived and owned land in
that county Indeed. the records are in a hopeless state of
confusion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

2. Because the guardian's deed was executed and delivered
five months before he had obtained authority from the Probate
Court to make it.
3. Because the petition of the guardian to sell the land did
not describe the property, and because it was void on its face.
Not only did this not involve a Federal question, but in its
opinion the court assumed, for the purposes of the cEse, that
the guardian's deed was void for want of jurisdiction, and
placed its decision solely upon the ground that Washington
had been guilty of such laches as would bar recovery
The only Federal question turns upon the right of George
Washington, a Shawnee Indian, and one of that class of persons who are 4ptly described as '"wvards of the nation," to avail
himself of the Whitefeather patent, notwithstanding his assumed laches-in taking possession thereunder. We are much
embarrassed by the failure of the defendants in error to file
a brief. But we do not understand how the defense of laches
is pertinent to -the case. The action is ejectment. The plaintiffs must recover on the strength of their own title, and not
upon the weakness of the defendants' The only titfe set up
by the plaintiffs is that derived from the deed of Jonathan
Gore, guardian of the defendant Washington, which is assumed
by the Supreme Court to be void. .The plaintiffs did not show
-that they were ever in possession of the land, which appears
to have been vacant and unoccupied until Dunbar took possession for the defendant Washington, in June, '1895. The
plaintiffs are not shown to have exercised acts of ownership,
or even to have paid taxes. We. do not understand the
materiality of the suggestion that the defendants have lost
their rights to the land by the laches of George Washington;
the Indian. Laches is a defense often set up in courts of equity
in bar of plaintiffs' claim, but here it is set up by the plaintiffs,
as a weapon of attack, although the defendants are the only
parties who are or have been in possession of the land. They
have shown plaintiffs' title to be void, and that they have been
in possession of the land for five years. They are entitled to

DUNBAR
198 U. S.

. GREEN.

Opimon of the Court.

stand upon their rights. As the deed was void, no affirmative
action on the part of George Washington was necessary.. Indeed, as plaintiffs took no action under the guardian's deed
to Kinney for over thirty years, ,it would appear that they
were guilty of greater and more inexcusable delay than the
defendants.
The only difficulty arises from the cross-petition of the
defendants, incorporated with their answer, in which they
demand that their title be quieted, and that plaintiffs be enjoined*from setting up or making any claun to the property.
If this were an original petition by defendants in possession
to remove a cloud from their title, it is entirely possible that
the court might find that they had been guilty of such laches
as would disentitle them to recover; but the petition of plaintiffs in the case is an ordinary petition in ejectment, praying
for possession of the land as agamst the defendants, for damages, and for an injunction pending trial. The case was tried
by the court without a jury, as an ordinary action of ejectment, and recovery decreed in favor of the plaintiffs for possession of the property, with costs. No iention was made in
the opinion or judgment of the cross-petition of the defendants.
We do not see how the case can be treated other than as an
ordinary.action of ejectment. In the case of Cheesebrough v.
Parker, 25 Kansas, 566, it was held that, where, under the
practice in Kansas, an action is commenced for the recovery
of real estate, the right of the plaintiff to demand a second trial
under the statute is not taken away by the addition to the
petition of a clan for mesne profits, nor by the fact that the
defendants set up an equitable defense and claimed equitable
relief in the answer.. In delivering the opinion of the court,
Mr. .Justice Brewer, now of this court, observed. "Under a
general denial," (in an action of ejectment) "every possible
defense may be interposed- If, instead of such general denial,
the defendant sets out. in detail an equitable defense, -this does
not change the character of the action or abridge the rights of
the plaintiff. It.s a grandl mistake to.suppose that by setting

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

up in an answer an equitable defense to an action for the recovery of real estate, either the plaintiffs' right to a jury trial,
or a second trial, under the statute, can be abridged. Whatever effect such defense may have upon defendants' rights,
the plaintiffs' are unchanged. They have commenced an
action, under the statute, for the recovery of real property,
and n'o rights given by such.statute can be taken away by the
character or form 6fothe defense." The substance of the opinion is that an action of ejectment must be tried as at law,
notwithstanding that.an eqmtable claim or defense is set up
by 6iie of the parties.
Had the plintiffs taken possession of the land under their
guardian's, deed, and an action been brought by the Indian,
they might-perhaps- have pleaded in defense laches or the
statute of limitations;, but as.the property remained vacant
,and ununproved'for over twenty years, we do not see why
the defendants do not stand in a position to avail themselves
of the fact' that the plattiffs' only title is derived from a void
deed, especially m view of the fact that the defendant Washington shows a patent to the land to his mother, Susan Whitefeather, and that he is her only heir. The record presents
the .curious anomaly of a recovery by plaintiffs who have
neither title nor prior possession against defendants, who have
both.
Had the defendants, after taking possession, filed a bill to
quiet, their title and remove the cloud created by the. guardian's deed, a different question would have been presented.
The judgm'eit of the 'Supreme Court of Kansas ws, therefore,
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further
proceedingsnot nconsstent with thms opznwn.

