HUMPHREY v. TATMAN.
198 U. S.

Counsel for Parties

nevertheless the deficiencies of his statement may be urged
against him. It cannot be said, therefore, that the commissioner's finding of probable cause was not justified.
The contention that the District of Columbia is not a District of the United States within the meaning of section 1014
of the Revised Statutes, authorizing the-removal of accused
persons from. one District to another, is disposed of by Benson
v Henkel, page 1.
The order&of the Circuit Court and the District Court dismissing the writs of habeas corpus are
Afflrmed.

HUMPHREY v. TATMAN
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 169. Argued March 7,1905.-Decided April 17,1905.

Whether the taking possession of after-acquired property within four months
of the filing of the petition m bankruptcy, under a mortgage made m good
faith pior to that period, is good or is void as against the trustee in bankruptcy, depends upon whether it is good or void according to the law of
the State. Thompson v. Fa-rbanks, 196 U. S. 516. Held, that such a
taking is under the circumstances of this case good according to the law.
of Massachusetts as construed by its Supreme Judicial Court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Brown for plaintiff in error.

Mr Chiarles T Tatman for defendant ii error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

MR.JusTIcE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by a trustee in bankruptcy, the
defendant in error, to recover an alleged preference. The
case was heard on agreed facts, which may be summed up as
follows: Davis filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy on
May 23, 1901. Two years before, on May 6, 1899,-being then
solvent, he executed to the plaintiff in error, Humphrey, a
mortgage of his present and after-acquired stock in trade and
fixtures, which covered the good in controversy; but the
mortgage was not recorded, and the goods remained in Davis's
possession. On April 30, 1901, Humphrey, having reasonable
cause to believe that Davis was insolvent, took possession of
the goods, in accordance, it fairly is implied, with the terms
of the mortgage, although against the wishes and protest of
Davis. The defendant in error was qualified as trustee on
June 18, 1901, and at once demanded the goods without payment of the mortgage debt. The case went from the Superior
Court to the Supreme Judicial Court of the State, and the
latter court ordered judgment for the plaintiff, 184 Massachusetts, 361, which was entered below, and thereupon the
case was brought here.
It may be assumed in view of the recent decision in Twmpson v Fasrbanks, 196 if S.516, that, if the taking possession
was good as against the trustee in bankruptdy so far as the
Massachusetts law is concerned, it should be held good here.
We assume also, without deciding, that if, as against the
trustee, the mortgage is to be regarded as first having come
into being when the mortgagee took possession, it would be
void. In the latter view the anomalous case would be presented of a mortgage of all a man's stock in trade to secure a
past debt, executed to one who had reasonable cause to believe
that the mortgagor was insolventand that he was receiving
a preference, but executed withoht intent to prefer on the part
of the mortgagor. There would be a preference within the
definition in ยง 60a, and the mortgagee would know it, but he

HUMPHREFY- v. TATMAN.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

cQuld not be said in a strict sense to have reasonable cause to
believe that it was intended to give a preference. We assume,
for purposes of decision, that such a case must be regarded as
falling within the intent of the act.
The question then is one of Massachusetts law, and unfortunately the decision does not leave us free from doubt
upon that point. If hereafter the Supreme Court of the State
should adopt a differeilt view from that to which we have been
driven this'case would cease to be a precedent. The langvage
of the Massachusetts statute is, "unless the property mortgaged has been delivered to and retained by the mortgagee,
the mortgage shall not be valid against a person other than
the parties thereto until it has been so recorded, and a record
made subsequently to the time limited [fifteen days] shall be
void." Mass. R. L. c. 198, ยง 1. There are cases which indicate that an assignee in bankruptcy is a universal successor
like an executor or a husband, and so that, as it is- put rn
Lowell, Bankruptcy, ยง309, the assignee is the bankrupt.
PhosphateSewage Co. v Molleson, 5 Ct. of Sess. Cas. (4th Ser.)
1125, 1138; Royaj Bank of Scotland v Cuthbert, 1 Rose, 462,
481, Selkrg v Dames, 2 Dow, 230, 248, S. C., 2 Rose, 291, 317.
So in the Roman law Bonorum emptor ficto se herede agit.
Gaius, IV, ยง35. But it is the settled law of Massachusetts
that such a fictitious identity does not satisfy the statute, that
the trustee in bankruptcy is "a person other than the parties
thereto," and that therefore as against hum the mortgage is
void. Bingham v Jordan, 1 Allen, 373, Blanchard v Cooke,
144 Massachusetts, 207, 226, Haskell v Merrill, 179 Massachusetts, 120, 124, 125. Haskell v Merrill is cited and relied
on in the Supreme Court of the State, and we assumq that it
and the other cases cited still correctly state the law It is
clear under these cases that recolding or taking possession
after the qualification of V'.e trustee would be too late, and it
certainly would seem not illogical to hold that as against him
the mortgage was to be treated as non-existent at any earlier
date until the things were done which made it good under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunou of the Court.

198 U. S.

.act. In this case the court speaks of "the proceedings by
which the mortgagee obtained his lien, three weeks before the
filing of the petition," which at last suggests if it does not
adopt the',idea that the mortgage then first came into being
as against thel trustee.
On the other hand the court says m terms that "the defendant's acquisition of possession cf the mortgaged property
before the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy,
and. before third persons had acquired liens or rights by attachment or otherwise, gave him a title which -was good at
common law against creditors, and which would have been
good against an assignee in insolvency under the statutes of
this Commonwealth, or against an assignee m bankruptcy
under the United States Bankruptcy Act of 1867." We feel
bound, on the whole, to take this as expressing a deliberate
attitude of the court on the question under discussion, as- undoubtedly that has been its attitude in the past.
In Brggs v Parkman, 2 Met. 258 [1841], a messenger m
insolvency -took possession of the mortgaged property on
July 15, at half-past one. At half-past three-the mortgage
was recorded. The first publication of the notice of issuing
the warrant to the messenger was on July 16, and that by the
ternis of the insolvent law fixed the time when the property
passed. It was held that the mortgage was valid as against
the assignee in insolvency In Mitclell v Black; 6 Gray, 100
[1856], a similar decision was made as to a bill of sale by way
of security, and it was intimated that the law did not interfere
with the action of purchasers m perfecting a title under a contract to which there was no legal objection when made. Thu.
case was relied on m Sawyer v Turpin. 91 U. S. 114, a case
like the present, decided as we decide this, and cited by the
court below In Btngham v Jordan, 1 Allen, 373 [1861],
which decided that the assignee in insolvency was not a
"party" within the statute, Brggs v Parkman was referred
to for its implications in favor of that view, without a hint
that the deci-on- was disapproved and seemingly with no

REMINGTON v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

95

Syllabus.

consciousness of inconsistency Finally, in Folsom v .Clemence,
111 Massachusetts, 273 [1873], twelve years after Bingham v
Jordan, it was held that a mortgage made more than six
months before the date of a petition in bankruptcy and recorded within the six months was valid. This case also betrays no sense of inconsistency with its predecessor and is
cited by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts as authority
for its last quoted statement of law See further Bliss v
Croster, 159 Massachusetts, 498.
As the Supreme Court of Massachusetts says that taking
possession under the mortgage within four months would be
valid as against the trustee in bankruptcy but for supposed
peculiarities of the present bankruptcy law, and as Thompson
v Fasrbanks, 196 U S. 516, although distinguishable from the
the present case, decides that it is valid under the present
bankruptcy law if good by the laws of the State, it follows
that the mortgagee was entitled to keep his goods and that
the judgmefit against him was wrong.
Judgment reversed.

REMINGTON v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 4i0. Submitted March 6, 1905.-Decided April 17,190.

This court has jurisdiction of a writ of error, upon a judgment dismissig
the suit for want of jurisdiction, when it appears in due form that the
ground of the judgment was want of service on defendant and that the
plaintiff denied the validity of the removal of the case from a state court.
If a petition to remove is filed as soon as it appears in the case that the
amount in controversy is sufficient to warrant removal it is filed in season
even if the time for answer has expired under the New York practice,
notwithstanding failure to serve a complaint as to which quare.

