OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

And Mr. Chief Justice Taney said. "But if it had been
otherwise, and the state court had committed so gross an error
as to say that a contract, forbidden by an act of Congress, or
against its policy, was not fraudulent and void, and that it
might be enforced in a court of justice, it would not follow
that this writ of error could be maintained. In order to bring
himself -within the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789, he
must show that he claimed some right, some inter.est, which
the law recognizes and protects, and which was denied to him
in the state court. But this act of Congress certainly gives
him no right to protection from the consequences of a contract made in violation of law Such a contract, it is true,
would not be enforced against him in a court of justice, not on
account of his own rights or merits, but from the want of
merits and good conscience in the party asking the aid of the
court. But to support this writ of &rror, he must claim a
right which, if well founded, he would be able to assert in a
court of justice, upon its own merits, and by its own strength."
p. 353.
The certificate on the allowance of the writ of error could
not in itself confer jurisdiction on this court, Fullerton v.
Texas, 196 U S. 192, 194, and the result is that the writ of
/
error must be
' Divsirsed.

,RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 183. Submitted March 15,1905.-Decided May 1, 19W.

Under §§ 34, 35 of the Foraker act of 1900, 31 Stat. 85, this court can
review judgments of the District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico in criminal cases where the accused claimed and, as alleged, was
denied a right under an act of Congress and under the Revised Statutes
of the United States.

RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Although a motion m arrest of judgment, based on the ground that the
grand jury was not properly impaneled by reason of the deputy clerk
acting in place of the clerk, was made in time, and the court below may
have erred in its interpretation of the statute, the accused cannot avail
of that even m this court unless the record shows that an exception was
properly taken. The accused could have waived such an objection to
the grand jury and by not excepting to the ruling he must be held to have
acquiesced in the ruling and waived his objection.

THIs writ of error brings up for review a final decree of the
District Court of the United States for the District of Porto
Rico, by which, in conformity with the verdict of a jury, the
plaintiffs in error, Rafael Rodriguez and Euripides Rodriguez,
were sentenced to confinement in the penitentiary-the former,
for three years at hard labor; the latter, for two years and to
pay a fine of five hundred dollars.
The indictment contained two counts. The first count
charged that on the first day of November, 1902, in the district of Porto Rico, the defendants unlawfully conspired together to steal, embezzle and purloin the moneys of the United
States, and that, to effect the object of such conspiracy, Rafael
Rodriguez, on the above date, being a postmaster of the United
States, did feloniously steal, embezzle and purloin out of
certain letters- which came to his possession as postmaster,
and which had not then been delivered to the party to whom
they were directed, divers bank notes and United States notes,
the property of the United States, of the value of five hundred
and sixty dollars. The second count charged that the defendants-Rafael Rodriguez being postmaster as aforesaidon the above date, and within the said district, feloniously
stole, embezzled and purloined bank notes and United States
notes, the property of the United States, of the value of five
hundred and sixty dollars, out of certain letters addressed to
the postmaster of the United States at San Juan, Porto Rico,
and intended to *be conveyed by mail, which letters had
previously come into the possession of Rafael Rodriguez, as
postmaster, and had' not then been delivered to the party to
whom they were directed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

The defendants jointly mbved to quash. the indictment upon
grounds substantially involving -its sufficiency The motion
was overruled, the court observing: "The indictment charges
the defendants with conspiring to commit an offense, and that,
mnpursuance to that, one of them did certain acts which,
owing to the alleged conspiracy, were the acts of both. The
use of the word' embezzle, in the indictment is surplusage.
The charge is a larceny as described .m the indictment." The
defendants took ,an exception:
The defendants then moved ;to quash the panel of petit
jurors, 'on the ground, among others, that the jurors had not
been selected and drawn in the mode required by the Revised
Statute of the United States. On this motion evidence was
heard, but the evidence was not made a part of the record by
The motion to quash was
bill of exceptions or otherwise..
I
denied.
Thereupon the defendants were arraigned, and pleaded not
guilty Bystanders were summoned to serve ,on the panel,
and from them a jury was selected. No objection was made
to the jury so selected.
The result of the trial was a verdict of guilty on the first
count.
After the return of the verdidt the accused moved in arrest
of judgment upon the following grounds: That the grand jury
was not selected or drawn according to the requirements of
the statute in such cases made and provided, that the clerk
of the court took no part in the selection of the names to be
placed in the jury box, but the other jury commissioner of the
court, after directing a deputy clerk to prepare lists and tickets
of persons, placed all the tickets with names in the box himself, that from the tickets and names so placed in the box by
the commissioner the grand jury was subsequently drawn,
that the deputy clerk was-not and is not a person authorized
under the law to take part in the selection -or drawing the
grand and petit juries of the court, that he had not been
theretofore appointed by the court for that purpose, that he

RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

was not shown to be of a different political affiliation -from the
jury commissioner theretofore appointed by the court; and
that said names were not placed in the box alternately by the
commissioner and the clerk. 21 Stat. 43, c. 52.
The motion in arrest of judgment was overruled, the court
making an order, which contained the following recitals: "It
appears the regular jury commissioner, Andres Crosas and
the deputy clerk, Frank Antonsanti, acted in doing so, the
clerk of the court being absent on sick leave. There is no
charge of corruption or that the selection was not by impartial'
persons. The general rule as to provisions of law for the
selection of jurors is, that they are only directory There appear to have been some irregularities, and not an exact compliance with the terms of the statute, but both the commissioner Crosas and the deputy clerk made the selection and both
were present all the time, during the selection, and no one else
took part -init. It is not shown they are not of opposite
politics, and this is to be presumed. There was no such matenal irregularity as vitiated the panel but a substantial compliance with the statute upon the subject. The motion in
arrest of judgment is overruled."
Subsequently the defendant moved for a new trial upon
various grounds. That motion was overruled, and this writ
of error was brought.
Mr Francis H. Dexter, Mr Frederw D McKenney and
Mr John Spalding Flannery for plaintiffs in errorThis court has jurisdiction to review, on writ of error, the
proceedings of the court belnw Crowlej v United States, 194
U S.461, 467
The grand jury having been selected by a person having
no authority to do so the whole proceeding of forming the
panel is void. The objection was taken in time. United
States v Gale, 109 U S. 65, Sanders v State, 55 Alabama, 186,
Miller v State, 33 MississIppi, 357, Curtis v Commonwealth,
87 Virginia, 590; Yelm Jim v Territory, 1 Wash. Ty R. 61

OCTOBER TER.I,

1904.

Argument for the United States.

198 U. S.

Mr Assistant Attorney General Robb and Mr Assistant
Attorney Glenn E. Husted for the United States:
This court has no jurisdiction. Act of April 12, 1900, 31
Stat. 85, act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, Royal Ins. Co.v
Martn, 192 U. S 149; Gonzales v Cunningham, 164 U. S.617,
Amado v United States, 195 U S. 172, New v Oklahoma, 195
U. S.252. The summoning of talesmen was done properly
§ 804, Rev Stat., St. Clairv United States, 154 U. S.134, 146;
Love3oy v United States, 128 U S.171, United States v Eagan,
30 Fed. Rep. 608, United States v Munford, 16 Fed. Rep.
164, United States v Rose, 6 Fed. Rep. 136. No objection was
raised or exception taken, both are essential. Alexander v
United States, 138 U. S.355.
As the evidence in support of this motion forms no part of
the bill of exceptions, and does not in any way appear in the
record, the action of the court in the premises cannot'be reviewed here. Suydam v Williamson, 20 How 427, 433,
Baltimore & P R. R. v Trustees, 91 U S. 127, Storm v United
States, 94 U S.76, 81, England v Gebhardt, 112 U S.502;
Duncan-v Atchison &c. R. R., 72 Fed. Rep. 808, 812; State v
Henderson, 109 Missouri, 292; State v McClintock, 37 Kansas,
40; State v Smith, 26 La. Ann. 62; St. Louis &c. Ry. v Wheelis,
72 Illinois, 538, Wiggins v Witherngton, 96 Alabama, 535.
There is nothing to overcome the presumption that the jury
was selected and drawn according to law, and that the clerk
and jury commissioner performed their dutips. United States
Bank v Dandridqe, 12 Wheat. 68, Kie v United States, 27
Fed. Rep. 351, United States v Greene, 113 Fed. Rep. 683, 693,
Osgood v State, 64 Wisconsin, 472; People v Madison County,
125 Illinois, 334, 340; Wheeler v State, 42 Georgia, 306, Smith
v State, 88 Alabama, 73, Pauska v Daus, 31 Texas, 72;
Thompson and Merriam on Juries, §§ 63, 586, and cases cited,
The overruling of the motion in arrest is not a denial of a
right claimed under an act of Congress. It was not made until
after defendants had pleaded not guilty to the indictment and
had been tried, convicted and sentenced. Such motions come

RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

too late if made after verdict. United States v Gale, 109
U. S. 65, 69; Crowley v United States, 191 U. S. 461, distinguished, and see State v Swift, 14 La. Ann. 827, State v White,
35 La. Ann. 96, State v Jackson, 36 La. Ann. 96, People v.
Ah Lee Doom, 97 California, 171, 176, Brown v State, 12
Arkansas, 623, Commonwealth v Freeman, 166 Pa. St. 332;
Brill v State, 1 Tex. App. 572.
Even if the facts were as stated in motions to quash the
panel and in arrest the action of the court was proper.
United States v Eagan, 30 Fed. Rep. 608, United States v
Rwhardson, 28 Fed. Rep. 61, United States v. Ambrose, 3 Fed.
Rep. 283, United States v Tuska, 14 Blatch. 5, S. C., Fed.
Cas. No. 16,550; United States v Greene, 113 Fed. Rep. 683,
692; Wharton, Cr. P1. & Prac. §§ 350,. 388.
Indictments will only be quashed in very clear cases. Wharton, Cr. P1. & Pr. § 386, and cases cited.
Embezzlement and theft under this section may be charged
in a single count. United States v Golding, 2 Cranch C. C.
212; United States v Byrne, 44 Fed. Rep. 188. The indictment was therefore proper as it stood, without treating the
word "embezzlement" as surplusage.
Mn. JUSTICE HARLN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question is one of the jurisdiction of this court to
reexamine the judgment below-the Government insisting that
we are without jurisdiction.
We are of .opinion that this question is settled by Crowley
v United States, 194 U. S. 461, 462, which was a criminal
prosecution for the violation of certain statutes of the'United
States relating to the postal service.
By the act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, 85, c. 191, -establishing a civil government for Porto Rico, it was provided that,
except as otherwise provided, the statutory laws of the United
States shall have the same force and effect in Porto Rico as in
VOL. cxovIIIll

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

the United States; also, that writs of error and appeals may be
prosecuted from the final decisions of the District Court of the
an
United States for Porto Rico "in all cases where
act of Congress is brought m question and the right claimed
thereunder is denied." Section 35. The same act provided that
the United States Court for Porto Rico shall have jurisdiction
"of all cases cognizant in the Circuit Court of the United States,
and shall proceed therein in the same manner as a Circuit
Court." Section 34. In Crowley's case the contention of the
accused, based upon a plea in abatement, was that certain
members of the jury finding the indictment were disqualified
under the local law to serve as grand jurors, and that the
statutes of the United States made it the duty of the District
Court to follow the local law in that respect. Referring to the
above act, we said. "In this case that act was brought in question by the contenton -of the parties-the contention of the
accused being, in substance, that pursuant to that act of
Congress the court below, m the matter of the qualifications
of grand jurors, should have been controlledby the provisions
of the local law relating to jurors, in connection with the statutes of the United States relating.to the organization of grand
juries and the trial and disposition of criminal causes; and the
court below deciding that, notwithstanding the Foraker act,
the local act of January 31, 1891, referred to in the plea, was
not applicable to this prosecution, and that the grand jury
finding the indictment, if a. grand jury was necessary, was
organized consistently with the laws of the United States
under which the court proceeded. It thus -appears that the
accused claimed a right under the act of Congress and under
the Revised Statutes of the United States, which, it is alleged,
was denied to him in the court below This court has, therefore, jurisdiction to inquire whether there is anything of substance in that claim."
As the Porto Rican statutes containno provisions relating
to the selection, drawing or impaneling of grand jurors, it
was, as the accused contends in this case, the duty of the Dis-

RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

trict Court of the United States for Porto Rico in criminal
prosecutions for crimes against the United States, to keep in
view section 800 of the Revised Statutes, which provides:
"Jurors to serve m the courts of the United States, in each
State respectively, shall have the same qualifications, sdbject
to the provisions hereinafter contained, and be entitled to the
same, exemptions, as jurors of the highest court of)Aw in such
State may have and be entitled to at the time5 when such
jurors for service in the courts of the United States are summoned, and they shall be designated by ballot, lot, or otherwise, according to the mode of forming such juries then prac-ticed in such state court, so far as such mode may be practicable
by the courts of the United States or the officers thereof. And
for this purpose the said courts may, by rule or order, conform
the designation and impaneling of juries, in substance, to the
laws and usages relating to jurors in the state courts, from time
to time in force in such State."
It was also its duty, in such prosecutions, to conform to the
act of Congress of June 30, 1879, 21 Stat. 43, c. 52, which provides that jurors to serve in the courts of the United States
"shall be publicly drawn from a box containing, at the time of
each drawing, the names of not less than three hundred persons,
possessing the qualifications prescribed in section 800 of the
Revised Stattites, which names shall have been placed
therein by the clerk of such court and a commisioner, to be
appointed by the judge thereof, which commissioner shall be
a citizen of good standing, residing in the district in which such
court is held, and a well-known member of the principal
political party in the district in which the court is held oppos-

ing that to which the clerk may belong, the -clerk and said
commissioner each to place one name in said box alternately,
without reference to party affiliations, until the whole number
and all juries to
required shall be placed therein,
serve in courts after the passage of this act shall be drawn in
conformity herewith."'
When, therefore, the accused in this case, by their motion

OCTOBER TERU, 1904.
Opuuon of the Court.

198 U. S.

in arrest of judgment, claimed the benefit of the above statutes,
the acts of Congress referred to were brought in question

within the meaning of the act of April 12, 1900, as interpreted
in the Crowley case; and the rights asserted by the accused
under those statutes having been denied, when the motion in
arrest of judgment was overruled,, the case could be brought
here. The words, "brought in question," m that act do not
mean that the accused, in order to bring the final judgment
here, must have disputed the validity of the acts of Congress
which were alleged to have been violated to their prejudice.
It was quite sufficient that they should assert rights under
those acts and that the rights so claimed were denied to them.
Crowley v United States, supra.
The Government, however, contends that-the motion in arrest
of judgment came too late, and in support of that view cites
the following language from United States v Gale, 109 U S.
65? 69 " Much more would it seem to be requisite that all
ordinary objections based upon the disqualification of particular jurors, or upon mformalities in summoning or impaneling
the jury, where no statute makes proceedings utterly void,
should be taken in limine, either by challenge, by motion to
quash, or by plea in abatement. Neglecting to do this, the
defendant should be deemed to have waived the irregularity"
Wharton Cr. P1. and Prac. §§ 344, 350, 426. But in the same
case the court said what is pertinent to the present discussion.
"There are cases, undoubtedly, which admit of a different consideration, and in which the objection to the grand jury may
be taken at any time. These are where the whole proceeding
of forming the panel is void, as where the jury is not a jury of
the court or term in which the indictment is found, or has been
selected by persons having no authority whatever to select them,
or where they have not been sworn, or where some other
fundamental requisite has not been complied with."
Here the objection to the grand jury was, in substance, that
it was not such a body as could legally find an indictment.
This view rests upon the ground that the names were placed

RODRIGUEZ v. UNITED STATES.
198 U. S.

Opmion of the Court.

in the box by a jury commissioner, and by a deputy clerk,
the latter, it is contended, having no authority to act at all in
such a matter in place of -the clerk, because the statute required the joint action of a commissioner and the clerk 9f the
court. If, therefore, the requirement that the grand jurors
should be selected by the commissioner and the clerk was a
fundamental requisite, that is, if the deputy clerk, in the
absence of the clerk, had no authority under any circumstances to act, then the motion in arrest of judgment did not
come too late. There are authorities which give some support
to the view that this requirement is of substance, and not a
mere "defect or irregularity in matter of form only" Rev
Stat. § 1025, Hulse v The State, 35 Ohio St. 421. Whether
this position be well taken or not we do not stop to consider;
for, assuming that the motion in arrest of judgment was made
in time, and assuming even that the court, as matter of law,
erred in its interpretation of the statute, still-the accused can:not avail themselves here of that error; for the record does not
show any exception taken to the overruling-of the motion in
arrest of judgment. By not excepting to the ruling of the
court the accused must be held to have acquiesced in it, and
to have waived the objection made to the grand jury We
perceive no reason why they could not have legally waived
an objection based upon the grounds stated in the motion.
This disposes of the case, for the assignments of error present
no other question that needs to be noticed. Besides, counsel
for the accused have properly confined their discussion of the
case to the question of the jurisdiction of this court, and to the
action of the court below in overruling the motion in arrest
of judgment. The judgment is
Affirmed.

