BEAVERS v. HAUBERT.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

BEAVERS v. HAUBERT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF, THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 354. Argued February 23, 1905.-.Declded April 17,190.

SAME v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 355. Argued February 23,1905.-Decided April 17,1905.

The rule that where jurisdiction has attached to a person or thing it is
exclusive in effect until it has wrought its function is primarily a right of
the court or sovereignty itself. The sovereignty where jurisdiction first
attaches may yield it, and the implied custody of a defendant by his
sureties cannot prevent it, although the bail may be exonerated by the
removal. Where the court consents, the Government may elect not to
proceed on indictments in the court having possession of the.defendant
and may remove him to another district for trial under indictments there
pending. Whether such election exists without the consent of the court,
not decided.
The constitutional right of a defendant to a speedy trial and by a jury of
the district where the offense was committed, relates to the time and not
to the place of trial, and cannot be invoked by a defendant, indicted in
more than one district, to prevent his removal from the district in which
he happens to be to the other m which the Government properly elects
to try him.
In removal proceedings, the degree of proof is not that necessary upon the
trial, and where defendant makes a statement and under the law of the
State claims exemption from, and refuses to submit to, cross-examination,
the dtflciencies of Ins statement may be urged against him, and, unless
the testimony removes all reasonable ground of the presumptions raised
by the indictment, this court will consider the commissioner's finding
of probable cause was justified.
The District of Columbia is a district of the United States within the meaning of § 1014, Rev. Stat., authorizing the removal of accused persons
-from one district to another. Benson v. Henkl, ante, p. 1.

THESE cases were submitted.together. No. 354 is an appeal'
from an order and judgment of the District Court of the
Eastern District of New York, m habeas corpus, remanding to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

the custody of appellee. No. 355 is an appeal from an order
of the United States Circuit Court for the same district, dismissing a writ of habeas corpus arising out of the same proceedmgs as No. 354. The same questions of law are presented and
we need not further distinguish the cases.
The arrest, from which appellant prayed to be discharged,
was made upon a commitment and warrant m proceedings to
remove him to the District, of Columbia, to be tried upon an
indictment there found against him. He attacks the commitment and warrant as not being due process of law, in that
the commissioner who issued them had -no jurisdiction to entertam proceedings against him, or to require bail, or in default thereof to commit him to await the order of the District
Judge, because indictments were pending against him in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
New York. The contention is that while the indictments were
so pending he could not be removed to another jurisdiction.
The facts are as follows: On the sixteenth of July, 1903, two
indictments were found against appellant in the Eastern District of New York, charging him with violations of sections 1781
and 1782 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and on
the twenty-fifth of July, 1903, another indictment was found
against him in the same district for the violation of section 1781.
On the third of September, 1903, a bench warrant was issued
on the indictments and proceedings instituted against him on
the indictment of July 25- 1903. A warrant of removal was
issued by the District Judge of the Southern District of New
York, and subsequently an order was entered by the Circuit
Court, directing appellant to surrender himself to the United
States marshal for said district, and in pursuance thereof the
appellant did so, and entered into a recognizance before one
of the -District Judges for said district in the penal sum of
$10,000 for his appearance in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District at the next regular term.
On the first of June, 1904, he appeared in said court in
pursuance of the notice from the United States District At-

BEAVERS v. HAUBERT.
193 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

torney, for the purpose of pleading to the indictments. On
the seventh of June, a continuance havingbeen granted, he
moved to quash the indictment on affidavits and other papers
properly served on the District Attorney On the eighth he
appeared before the Circuit Court, "prepared to move upon
and plead to the said indictments." Thereupon the District
Attorney refused to proceed further with the indictments, but
stated his intention to institute proceedings for the removal of
appellant to the District of Columbia, under the indictments
found against him there. The court thereupon continued the
proceedings until the thirteenth of June, 1904, from time to
time thereafter, until the date of the petition herein, and
enlarged him from day to day upon his recognizance, which
is still in full force. On the eighth of June, 1904, he was
arrested upon the warrant now in question. The indictments
have not been quashed or nolle prossed, and the appellant is
ready to plead thereto if the motions submitted in respect.
thereto be overruled.
The petitioner alleges that the only evidence adduced by
the Government was a certified copy of the indictment, which,
it is alleged, constituted no proof, but was incompetent and
inadmissible because it failed to state facts sufficient to con-stitute a crime, and because it appeared from the testimony
of the witnesses on whose testimony it was found and who
were called before the commissioner that there was no probable
cause to believe he was guilty of any offense against the
Uited States, and whatever strength the indictment possessed was rebutted by such evidence.
Mr Wilham M. Seabury, with whom Mr Bankson T
Morgan.was on the brief, for appellant:
The arrest and commitment of the appellant on warrants
issued by a Unifed States Commissioner in a proceeding
brought to effect his removal to the District of Columbia,
while he was in the custody of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of New York for trial, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument- for Appellant.

198 U. S.

subject to its jurisdiction, was void as an unlawful interference
with the jurisdiction of such Circuit Court, and a violation. of
the appellant's constitutional rights.
In criminal cases priority of jurisdiction is determined by'
the date of service of process. United States v Lee, 84 Fed.
Rep. 631, Crasg v Hoge, 28 S. E. Rep. (Va.) 317, Unon
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v Untversity of Chwiago, 6 Fed. Rep. 443,
Owens v Railroad Co., 20 Fed. Rep. 10; Wilmer v Railroad
Co., 30 Fed. Cases, 73, Herndon v Ridgway, 17 How 424,
Chaffee v Hayward, 20 How 208, 215, Boswell's Sons v Otis,
9 How 336, 348, Pennoyer v Neff, 95.,U S. 714, Mexwan
Central Ry. .v Pinkney, 149 U S.194, 209.
The fact that Beavers-had given bail on the first arrest and
was not in actual custody of the marshal when the second
arrest took place is immaterial. In re Beavers, 125 Fed. Rep.
988. By admission to bail the appellant had not been relieved from custody
When bail is given, the principal is regarded as delivered
to the custody of his sureties. Their dominion is a continuance of the original imprisonment. See Bail, Bacon's Abridg.;
Taylor v Taintor, 16 Wall. 371, Anon's Case, 6 Mod. 231,
Cosgrove v Winney, 174 U S. 68, In re Grwe, 79 Fed. Rep.
633, United States v Stevens, 16 Fed. Rep. 105, Turner v
Wilson, 49 Indiana, 581, Dwine v State, 5 Sneed. 625, Levy
v Arnsthall, 10 Grat. (Va.) 641, Ex parte Gibbons, 1 Atk. 238,
Spear on Extradition, 445-; Petersdorf on Bail, 91, 406.
Wherever a conflict of jurisdiction- has arisen between a
state and Federal court, the court whose jurisdiction has first
attached to the person .6r thing, has universally held and retamed it until its completion. No other court has been permitted by its process to interfere with the jurisdiction of the
court which has first attached. Byers v McAuley, 149 U. S.
;608, 614, Hagan v Lucas, 10 Peters, 400; Taylor v Carryl,
20 How 583, Peck v Jenness, 7 How 612, 625, Freeman v
Howe, 24 How 450;.Ellis v Davs. 109 U S.485, 498; Krnppendoij y, Hyde, 110 U S.276, 280; Covell v Heyman, 111

BEAVERS v. HAUBERT.
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

U. S. 176, Borer v Chapman, 119 U. S. 587, 600; In re Chambers, Calder & (o., 98 Fed. Rep. '866, Jordan v Taylor, 98
Fed. Rep. 643, Keegan v King, 96 Fed. Rep. 758, Chaprn v.
James, 11 R. I. 87, The E. L. Cam, 45 Fed. Rep. 367, Moran
v Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 269, 279; Ex parte Chetwood, 165
U. S. 443, 460; Pac. Coast S. S. Co. v Bancroft Whitney Co.,
94 -Fed. Rep. 186, Yonley v Lavender, 21 Wail. 276, Sharon
v Terry, 36 Fed. Rep. 337, aff'd 131 U S. 40.
The same principle is universally applicable where Federal
and state courts each claim jurisdiction over the same person
at the same time. Abelman v Booth, 21 How 506, TarbleM's
Case, 13 Wall. 397, Robb .v Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, In re
Spangler, 11 Michigan, 298, In re James, 18 Fed. Rep. 853.
In fact even where a State has sought the rendition of a
fugitive from another State, if he is held in custody m the
State upon which the demand is made on accouat of an offense committed therein, the duty to surrender is postponed
until the existing charge against the prisoner has been satisfied. Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, vol 12, p. 604, Matter of
Troutman, 24 N. J. Law, 634, Matter of Brscoe, 51 How Pr.
422; Hobbs v State, 22 S. W Rep. (Tex.) 1035, Tatntor v
Taylor, 36 Connecticut, 242, Taylor v Tasntor; 16 Wall. 366,
Ex parte Rosenblat, 51 California, 285, Clark -Cr. Proc., 63;
Spear on Extradition, 442.
The rule is the same where Federal courts of different districts have asserted jurisdiction at the same time over the
same personal property Fe Miller, 30 Fed. Rep. 895, Ames
v Ry. Co., 60 Fed. Rep. 967, 974, Clyde v Richmond & D.
R. Co., 65 Fed. Rep. 336, Chattanooga Terminal Ry. Co. v.
Felton, 69 Fed. Rep. 273, 283, N Y Security & Trust Co. v.
Equitable Mtge. Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 556, Wis-wall v Sampson,
14 How. 60.
This principle is not restricted in its application to questions
of jurisdiction between- courts of different sovereignties, but
is applicable wherever two courts subject to the same general
sovereignty and existing under *the s.-me judicial system seek
voL. oxov--6

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

198 U. S.

to exercise criminal jurisdiction over the same person for
antagonistic purposes at the same time. In re Johnson, 167
U S. 125, In re Beavers, 125 Fed. Rep. 988, In re Beavers, 131
Fed. Rep. 366.
A United States Commissioner is a subordinate ministerial
officer, an arm or branch of the District Court, tnd is himself
neither court nor judge. United States v Allred, 155 U S.
595, Todd v United States, 158 U. S. 278, Rwce v Ames, 180
U S. 371, 378, United States v Schumann, 2 Abb. U S. 523,
United States v Jones, 134 U S. 483, Re Ellerbe, 13 Fed. Rep.
530; In re Perhns, 100 Fed. Rep. 950; Ex parte Dole, 7 Phila.
595. Even conceding the right of the commissioner to issue
process against the appellant, the process could not be lawfully
executed by the marshal so long as he was in the custody of
a court of superior jurisdiction. In re Beavers, 125 Fed. Rep.
988, Hobbs v The State, 22 S. W Rep. 1035, Matter,of Troutman, 24 N. J Law, 634, Higgins v Dewey, 39 N. Y 94.
Whether or not the Circuit Court might have waived or
relinquished its jurisdiction is immaterial. This was never
done. The appellant's recognizance was not cancelled. If
the arrest of the appellant herein under a commisoner's
warrant was void, no subsequent willingness of the" Circuit
'ourt to waive its jurisdiction could give the arrest validity.
The refusal of the District Attorney to prceed with the
prosecution and the failure of the court below to discharge
Beavers from the arrest complained of .leprived him of his
constitutional right to a speedy trial by jury in trle Eastern
District of New York. United States v Fox, 3 Montana, 312,
note to In re Bergeron, 85 Am. St. Rep. 178, 204, Sutherland's notes on the U S. Const., Nixon v State, 41 Am. Dec.
601, Cooley Const. Lim., 7th ed., 440.
The positive evidence adduced by the appellant before the
commissioner was such as wholly to deprive the indictment
of its prma facew probative force, and the decision of the commissioner was in effect a determination that the indictment
was 'conclusive evidence.

BEAVERS v. H1AUBER.
198 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

See § 196, N. Y Code-Ciy Pro., which is here applicable
under the rule that proceedings under § 1014 are in all respects
similar to criminal proceedings instituted before a committing
magistrate in the State where the arrest is made, and are controlled and governed by the rules of evidence and procedure
in such State. Re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886, 893, United States
v Rundlett, 2 Curt. 42, United States.v Case, 8 Blatch. 251,
United States v Horton, 2 Dill. 94, United Stat~s v Brawner,
7 Fed. Rep. 86, 90; United States v Martin, 17 Fed. Rep. 150,
156, Re Burkhardt, 33 Fed. Rep. 25, United States v Green,
100 Fed. Rep. 941.
The indictment is not conclusive evidence of the facts
therein Atated. United States v Green, 100 Fed. Rep. 941,
S. C., 108 Fed. Rep. 816, Green v Henkel, 183 U. S. 241, In
re Rwhter, 100 Fed..Rep. 295, In re Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614,
In re Wood, 95 Fed. Rep. 288, United States v Prwe, 84 Fed.
Rep. 636, In re Prce, 83 Fed. Rep. 830; aff'd 89 Fed. Rep. 84,
In re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886, United States v Fowles, 49
Fed. Rep. 50; In re Wolf, 27 Fed. Rep. 606, Alexander's Case,
1 Lowell, 530; United States v Hask?.ns, 3 Sawy 262; United
States v Pope, 24 Inter. Rec. 29. In Beavers v Henkel, 194
U. S. 73, this point was not considered.
Mr. Assstant Attorney General Purdy for the United States:
The fact that an indictment is pending against George W.
Beavers in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of New York in no manner affects the power or the
right of the United States Government to institute and maintam proceedings agamst said Beavers, under § 1014, Rev
Stat., for the purpose of securing his appearance for trial
before the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. Taylor
v Tatntor, 16 Wall. 271. is not in point.
Whether a removal proceeding from Brooklyn to Washington would operate to discharge the sureties upon the bond
of Beavers for lns appearance at Brooklyn for trial is a question which need not here be considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

Every sovereignty has the power to waive its right to try
a person accused of having committed an offense against its
laws, and may elect to surrender such accused person, without
his consent, to a demanding State. Taylor v Tatntor, 16
Wall. 366, In re Hess, 5 Kan. App. 763, State v Allen, 2
Humph. (Tenn.) 258.
The evidence produced upon the hearing, in behalf of the
defendant, was totally insufficient to overthrow the pnma
facte case established by the Government.
MR. JUsTIcE MCKENNA, after stating *the facts as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It will be observed that indictments were found against
appellant in the Eastern District of New York. He was then
living in the city of New York, which is in the Southern District. He was removed from the latter by removal proceedmgs to the former for trial, and, having been called upon to
plead to the indictments, he made certain motions in respect
thereto. The District Attorney, however, announced an intention not to proceed further with the prosecution, and announced further that he intended to prosecute proceedings
to remove appellant to the District of Columbia for trial.
This was done, and with the consent of the court. It io stated
in Judge Thomas's opinion that the Circuit Court "deferred
the hearing of the motions pending the hearing before the
commissioner, for the purpose of allowing the warrant to be
served upon the defendant (petitioner), and to permit the
proceedings to continue before the commissioner."
The appellant contends, nevertheless, that the commissioner had no power to issue warrants, and relies on two
propositions:
(1) The proceedings were void because they were an unlawful interference with the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of New York, in the custody of which
he was.

BEAVERS v. HAUBERT.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

(2) The proceedings were a violation o- appellant's constitutional rights -to a speedy trial by jury upon such indictments.
(1) In support of the first proposition is urged the principle
"that where jurisdiction has attached to a person or thing,
it is-unless there is some provision to the contrary--exclusive
in effect until it has wrought its function." Taylor v Tasntor,
16 Wall. 366, 370. But this is primarily the right of the court
or sovereignty, and has its most. striking examples in cases of
extradition. The cited case shows that whatever right a party
may have is not a constitutional right. The question in che
case was the effect on the'bail of a defendant given to a State.
by the action of its Governor, sending hun out of the State
under extradition proceedings. It was held that his bail was
exonerated. The court said. "It is the settled law of this
class of cases that the bail will be exonerated where the performance of the condition is rendered impossible by the act
of God, the act of the obligee, or the act of the law" And the
act of the Governor of a State yielding to the requisition of the
Governor of another State was decided to be the act of the
law It was further said. "Insuch-cases the Governor acts in
his official chaiacter, and represents the sovereignty of the
State in giving efficacy to the Constitution of the United States
and the law of Congress. If he refuse there is no means of
compulsion, but if he act, and the fugitive is surrendered, the
State whence he is removed can no longer require his appearance before her tribunals, and all obligations which she has
taken to secure that result thereupon at once, ipso facto, lose
their binding effect."
This case establishes-that the sovereignty where jurisdiction
first attaches may yield it, and that. the implied custody of a
defendant by his sureties cannot prevent. They may, however, clain exemption from further liability to produce him.
There is nothing in In re Johnson, 167 U. S. 120, which
militates against this view Indeecd, that it is the right of the
court of sovereignty to insist upon or waive .its jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

is there decided (page 126). In Cosgrove v Winney, 174 U. S.
68, Cosgrove was brought into this country from Canada under
a treaty which confined action against him. to the very offense
for which he was surrendered until he should have an opportunity of returning. His subsequent arrest for a nonextraditable offense was held to be a violation of the process
under which he was brought into the United States, and
therefore illegal.
The Circuit Court, as we hav6 seen in the case at bar, consented to the removal of the appellant, and we are not called
upon to decide whether the Government had the right of
election, -without such consent, to proceed in New York or the
District of Columbia.
(2) Undoubtedly a defendant is entitled to a speedy tiial
and by a jury of the district where it is alleged the offense
was committed. This is the injunction of the Constitution,
but suppose he is charged with more than one crime, to which
does the right attach? He may be guilty of none of them, he
may be guilty of all. He cannot be tried for all at the same
time, and his rights must be considered with regard to the
practical administration of justice. To what .offense does the
right of the defendant attach? To that which was first
charged, or to that which was first committed? Or may the
degree of the crimes be considered? Appellant seems to contend that the right attaches and becomes fixed to the first accusation, and whatever be the demands of public justice they
must wait. We do not think the right is so unqualified and
absolute. If it is of that character it determines the order of
trial of indictments in the same court. Counsel would: not so
contend at the oral argument, but such manifestly is the consequence. It must be remembered that the right is a constitutional one, and if it has any application to the order of
trials of different indictments it must relate to the time of trial,
not to the place of trial. The place of trial depends upon other
considerations. It must be in the district where the crime
was committed. There is no other injunction or condition,

BEAVERS v. EIAUBERT.
198 U. S.

Opmon of the Court:

and it cannot be complicated by rights having no connqction
with it. The right of a speedy trial is necessarily relative.
It is consistent with delays and depends upon circumstances.
It secures rights to a defendant. It does not preclude the
rights of public justice. It cannot be claimed for one offense
and prevent arrest for other offenses; and removal proceedings
are-but process for arrest-mean.§ of bringing a defendant to
trial. And this leads to the other contentions of appellant.
Upon the hearing before the commissioner the Government
introduced in evidence a copy of the indictment and proof of
'the identity of appellant. The latter called witnesses and made
a statement in his own behalf, and contends that he rebutted
every material allegation of the indictment, and that the finding of the commissioner gave to the indictment the effect of
conclusive proof.
Two questions are involved, whether appellant may rebut
the indictment and whether he has dQne so. If the latter be
answered in the negative, and we think it must be, no reply
need be given to the other.
There is no question made of the sufficiency of the indictment. It certainly charges a crime, It charges that Beavers
was Superintendent of the T6vision of Salaries and Allowances
in the office of the First Assistant Postmaster General, and
that he entered into a corrupt agreement with W. Scott Towers,
an agent of the Elliott & Hatch Book Typewriter Company,
whereby Towers promised to pay to Beavers the sum of.
twenty-five dollars out of each two hundred dollars paid to
said company-for book typewriters, and that Beavers received.
from Towers, in pursuance of the agreement, a -raft for the
sum of three hundred and fifty dollars. The agreement wag
madd and the draft given for the purpose of influencing Beavers'
official judgment and action. The only testimony that is
material to notice was delivered by Henry J Gensler, Charles
Flint, Howard W Jacobs and E. H. Schley
Gengler testified that up to June, 1900, lie was an agent of
the Elliott & Hatch Book Typewriter Company, and as such

OCTOBER TERM, 1904'.
Opimon of the Court.

168 U. S.

had charge of all the trade in the locality of the District of
Columbia. After that time his son had such charge. It may
be inferred that he had some knowledge of 'his,son's business
and was familiar with sales made during the year 19,00. He
testified that he had no knowledge of any agreement with
Towers and Beavers in October, 1900 relating to Beavers'
official conduct with regard to the Elliott _& Hatth Book
Typewriter Company
Flint was the assistant treasurer and-the assistant secretary
of the company from February, 1901, to March, 1903. He
testified that during the year 1901 the corporation, so far as
the books and accounts showed, paid no money.to' Beavers for
any purpose whatever, and that he .haa no,knowledge ,that
would lead him to believe that such money was paid.. He
further testified that if any money of the corporation had been
paid for the purpose of securing the contract of the Gbvernment it would necessarily have come under his notice. Also
that he had no'knowledge of money being paid by Towers to
Beavers, nor had he knowledge of money having been authorized by the corporation to be paid, either directly or indirectly,
to:Beavers either three hundred and fifty dollars, or any sum,
on July 11, 1901, or any other time, and if such payment had
been authorized he would have known it. He further testified
that the sales to the Post Office Department were to Mr.
Gensler, and the method adopted was that the machines were
charged to Gensler as being outright purchases by him at one
hundred and forty dollars each. The machines returned were
credited to his account. A few sales were charged directly*
against the Postmaster General, with the understanding that
they were te be paid for at two hundred dollars and charged
to Genslerat one hundred and forty dollars. He also testified
that while he was assistant treasurer he hd no knowledge of
the payment of money to Gensler or of authority given Gensler
-to pay money to Towers for Beavers, for the purpose of influencing Beavers' official action in regard to the sale of the
Elliott & Hatch Book Typewriter, or that Beavers ever re-

BEAVERS v. IHAUBERT.
198 U. 9.

Opinon of the Court:

ceived anything of value from the company for such purpose;
and tjat if such payment had'been made he believed he would
have known it.
Howard W. Jacobs was bookkeeper and cashier of the corporation; Schley became secretary and treasurer in 1899.
Both these witnesses testified as to knowledge 9f the affairs
of the corporation, the trades made by it, and sales in Washmgton of machines and the business and knowledge of the
payment by the corporation or any of its. officers or agents to
Beavers, or to ToWers for Beavers substantially as Flint. The
witnesses also testified that the Elliott & Hatch machines were
the best of the book typewriters -and their usual price was
$200.
Beavers was sworn for the purpose, as expressed by his counsel, "of permitting the accused to make a statement in his own
behalf." In answer to questions of his counsel he testified
that he was the person accused and the person against whom
three indictments had been found in the Eastern District of
-New York, charged with violations of sections 1781 and 1782
of the Revised Statutes of the United States. That it was not
at his instance the Elliott & Hatch typewriter was placed in
the Post Office Department; it was placed there under the
direction of the First Assistant Postmaster General. It was
thp rule of the Department in. making the allowance for the
typewriter to act under the instructions of that officer, and he
so acted. Under a like rule he acted-m the purchase of the
machines, and he further testified that he entered into no
agreement with Towers whereby he was to receive $25 for
each typewriter thereafter purchased by the Post Office Department. He admitted he received a draft from- Towers,
but it -was in the nature of a loan, as he remembered it, also
that he received many drafts from Towers, who was a man of
consid rable influence with the banks of, Washington, and
frequently obtained drafts for him (Beavers) and had notes
discounted for him. This practice ran through their entire
acquaintance. There was not, he further testified, on or

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

193 U. S.

about July 11, 1901, any matter relating to the Elliott & Hatch
Book Typewriter pending before him.
Counsel for Government attempted to cross-examine Beavers
to which the latteF!s counsel objected. The commissioner
ruled against the objection, and counsel directed Beavers not
to answer. The objection to cross-examination was based
upon the ground that BeAvers took the stand merely for the
purpose of making a-statement in answer to the charge made
against hun and to explain the facts alleged, in accordance
with section 196, of the New York Code of.Criminal Procedure,
and, it was urged, that that section, or any other section which
governed the proceedings, did not contemplate cross-examination. And counsel further observed that as the indictment, which was the basis of the proceedings, was not the only
one found against Beavers "for that reason it would be extremely unwise to allow hun to enter into any rambling crossexamination."
The commissioner committed the appellant in default of
bail, finding that there was probable cause that the offenses
charged had been committed. The finding was affirmed by
the District Court in 'the proceedings for habeas corpus.
We think the finding was justified, in other words, the proof
afforded by the indictment was not overcome, and this is all
that it is necessary to now decide. Regarding the letter of the
testimony when weighed with the indictment, it does not
remove all reasonable grounds of presumption of the commission of the offense. The degree of proof is not that necessary upon the trial of the offense, and a certain latitude of
judgment must be allowed the commissioner. We cannot say
that such latitude was exceeded. The testimony was negative
and, for the most part, confined to general statements, and
Beavers resisted cross-examination, and the test of the circumstances which might thereby have been elicited. But
granting that he could under the New York Code offer himself
to be sworn and deliver a statement under the directions of
questions by coitnsel and be exempt from cross-examination,

HUMPHREY v. TATMAN.
198 U. S.

Counsel for Parties

nevertheless the deficiencies of his statement may be urged
against him. It cannot be said, therefore, that the commissioner's finding of probable cause was not justified.
The contention that the District of Columbia is not a District of the United States within the meaning of section 1014
of the Revised Statutes, authorizing the-removal of accused
persons from. one District to another, is disposed of by Benson
v Henkel, page 1.
The order&of the Circuit Court and the District Court dismissing the writs of habeas corpus are
Afflrmed.

HUMPHREY v. TATMAN
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 169. Argued March 7,1905.-Decided April 17,1905.

Whether the taking possession of after-acquired property within four months
of the filing of the petition m bankruptcy, under a mortgage made m good
faith pior to that period, is good or is void as against the trustee in bankruptcy, depends upon whether it is good or void according to the law of
the State. Thompson v. Fa-rbanks, 196 U. S. 516. Held, that such a
taking is under the circumstances of this case good according to the law.
of Massachusetts as construed by its Supreme Judicial Court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Brown for plaintiff in error.

Mr Chiarles T Tatman for defendant ii error.

