IN RE GLASER.
198 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

Ex parte: In re GLASER, PETITIONER.
ORIGINAL.
No. 16. Original. Submitted April 20, 1905.-Decided May 8,1905.

Since the passage of the act of March 3, 1891, this court has no jurisdiction
to review judgments or decrees of the District and Circuit Courts, directly
by appeal or writ of error, in cases not falling within ยง 5 of that act.
In cases over which this court possesses neither original nor appellate jurisdiction it.rannot grant mandamus.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr Rwhard A. Irv.ng and Mr Leuws E. Carr, Jr., for
petitioner, as to the jurisdictional question.
Mandamus lies to compel the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction. Railroad Co. v Wiswell, 22 Wall. 507, Ex parte
Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369; Re Pennsylvanza Co., 137 U. S.
451, Matter of Hohorst, 150 U. S. 653, Re Grossmeyer, 177
U. S. 48.
Petitioner cannot appeal from any decision of the Circuit
Court of the Eastern District of New 'ork for the reason that
the court has refused to. take jurisdiction.
If there is no action pending, there is no such thing as a
proceeding to compel the filing of an answer to compel the
placing of the case upon the calendar, and there. is no such
ground for the entry of such an order, and no appeal therefrom. It is a nullity unless an action -is pending, except to
show the attitude of the judge as to jurisdiction. Mandamus
to the judges bf the court to take jurisdiction is plaintiff's
only remedy.
Mr Alin Cushng Cass for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUsT c FULLER delivered the opinion of the court,
This is a petition by :Gertrude Glaser,. as administiatrix,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

for mandamus, requiring the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York to take
jurisdiction and proceed -against Anthony P Langer m a certam suit alleged by petitioner to be pending and undetermined
in that court, wherein Gertrude Glaser,-as admmistratrix, is
plamtiff,,and Anthony P Langer is defendant,, and to strike
from the records of the court a certain order made on the
fourteenth day of November, 1904, entitled. " 'In the Matter
of the Application of Gertrude Glaser, Administratrix, &c., to
compel the filing of an answer, or other relief, in an action
alleged to be pending between 'Gertrude Glaser, as Admm.istratrix, &c., of Isador Glaser, deceased, Plaintiff, and Anthony P Langer, Defendant;' whereby petitioner's application
to compel the filing of said answer was denied, on the ground.
that no such action wai pending, and to make, such disposition
of said suit as ought to have been made had said order not been
"
made and entered therein
-The petition alleged the commencement in the.Circuit Court
of a common law action by petitioner as admmistratnx against
Langer, 'to recover damages for negligence causing the death
of petitioner's-husband, and rested the jurisdiction on diversity
of, citizenship. The circumstances' in respect of a mistake,
by reason of which no summons'was'issued, though service of
copy was made, are set forth in detail, and the fact alleged of
notice of apparance and answer, and the assertion by defendant's attorney that this was m ignorance of the defect as to
summons.
Leave to file the petition was granted, and this having been
done- a rule was entered thereon, to which the judge presiding
in the Circuit Court,. and before whom. all the proceedings referred to in the petition were had, and by whom the decision
was made, made due return, submitting his action .m the
premises, and cer.tifying that his reasons for denying the motion
were set forth ii-the order, which is given at length. It appears therefrom.th-at the motion was denied "upon the sole
ground that no action of Gertrude Glaser, as administratrix of

SCHLoSSER v. HEMPHILL.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the goods, chattels and credits of Isador -Glaser, deceased,
plaintiff, against Anthony P Langer, defendant, is nor ever
has been pending in this 'couit."
In. cases over which we possess neither original nor appellate
junsdictibn; we cannot grant mandamus. Rev Stat. ยง 716,
In re Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Petitioner,197 U. S. 482.
Of course there is no pretense of original jurisdiction here,
aid since the passage of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826,
c. 517, we have no jmsdiction to review the judgments or
decrees of the District and Circuit Courts directly by appeal
or writ of error in cases such as this case if pending in the
Circuit Court.
.Rule discharged. Petition dented.

SCHLOSSER v. HEMPHILL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 175. Argued March 13,14,1905.-Decided May 8,1905.

Where the judgment of the highest court of a State, m reversmg a judgment against defendant, does not 'direct the court below to dismiss the
petition but rernands the cause for further proceedings, in harmony with
the opinion, it is not a final-judgment in such a sense as to sustain a writ
of error from this court.

THE case is thus stated by the Supreme Court of Iowa, to
which it had been carried by appeal from the District Court
of Palo Alto county"This w an action in equity to quiet title to a tract of some
two hundred and ninety acres of land in the south half of section 30, township'97, range 34, in Palo Alto county Plaintiff
is the admitted owner of lots two and three, forming a -part of
said tract, and containig about 99 acres. According to -the

