REMINGTON v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

95

Syllabus.

consciousness of inconsistency Finally, in Folsom v .Clemence,
111 Massachusetts, 273 [1873], twelve years after Bingham v
Jordan, it was held that a mortgage made more than six
months before the date of a petition in bankruptcy and recorded within the six months was valid. This case also betrays no sense of inconsistency with its predecessor and is
cited by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts as authority
for its last quoted statement of law See further Bliss v
Croster, 159 Massachusetts, 498.
As the Supreme Court of Massachusetts says that taking
possession under the mortgage within four months would be
valid as against the trustee in bankruptcy but for supposed
peculiarities of the present bankruptcy law, and as Thompson
v Fasrbanks, 196 U S. 516, although distinguishable from the
the present case, decides that it is valid under the present
bankruptcy law if good by the laws of the State, it follows
that the mortgagee was entitled to keep his goods and that
the judgmefit against him was wrong.
Judgment reversed.

REMINGTON v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 4i0. Submitted March 6, 1905.-Decided April 17,190.

This court has jurisdiction of a writ of error, upon a judgment dismissig
the suit for want of jurisdiction, when it appears in due form that the
ground of the judgment was want of service on defendant and that the
plaintiff denied the validity of the removal of the case from a state court.
If a petition to remove is filed as soon as it appears in the case that the
amount in controversy is sufficient to warrant removal it is filed in season
even if the time for answer has expired under the New York practice,
notwithstanding failure to serve a complaint as to which quare.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

Following up a motion to stay m the state court the day after notice of the
amount in controversy, and obtaining an order relieving defendant from
any technical default, which order took effect the same day that the
petition for removal was filed, two days after such notice does not estop
defendant from removing the suit. The facts appearing of record, an
allegation m a petition for removal that the time has not arrived at whirli
defendant was required to answer or plead is sufficient.
Presenting the petition to a judge in chambers satisfies the statute.
Although the state court, before removal, has refused, subject to an appeal,
.to set aside a summons, the Circuit Court has power to reopen the question. and to set the summons aside.
Semble, service on a director of a corporation, which is doing no business
and has no property m the State, when he is casually m the State for a
few days, is bad.

THE .facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr James G. Flanders for plaintiff in error.
Mi. Maxwell Evarts for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICe HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court upon a juagment
dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction of the defendant.
That question is certified from the court below
The action was brought in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York on April 10, 1903, by serving a summons on a
director of the defendant m error, the railroad. On April 22
the plaintiff's attorney gave twenty days' additional time to the
defendant in which to appear generally or specially or to move
to vacate the summons. On May 11 a firm of lawyers gave
notice of a motion to set aside the service, and also that they
appeared only for that purpose. An agreement was made
giving the defendant .time to appear after the motion- was
decided. The motion was not decided until September 28,
1903, when it was denied and an order to that effect was entered on October 2. The defendant's attorneys filed a notice
of appeal on October 15, and the next day gave notice of a
motion to stay proceedings on the order, to be made on Octo-

REIINGTON v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO.
198 U. S.

97

Opimon of the Court.

ber 24. On the same October 16 the plaintiff made an affidavit ui which it appeared that the sum which lie sought to
recover was more than $2,000. This contamed-the first definite
notice to defendant, as no declaration had been filed. An.
order to take plaintiff's deposition and this affidavit were Jerved
on the defendant on. October 23. On October 26 a petition
for renloval to the United States Circuit Court was presented
by the defendant to a judge of.. the state court m chambers
and the bond was approved. Before the petition for removal
was filed the motion for a stay came up on October 24 in the
state court and was argued, and a stay was ordered, the defendant at the same time being relieved from any default in
appearing. The matter of the appeal was not passed upon.
This order was entered on October 26. On November 4 the
record was filed in the United States Court.
In the Circuit Court the defendant renewed its motion to
set aside the service of the summons, the plaintiff objecting
on various grounds, which will be dealt with, and moving to
remand the case. On July 23, 1904, the court granted the
defendant's motion and overruled the plaintiff's, and on August 30 a judgment was entered dismissing the action for want
of jurisdiction of the defendant. See Wabash Westerm Ry. v
Brow, 164 U- S.271. The plaintiff's rights were saved by a
bill of exceptions, the form of the judgment and a certificate
of the judge, and the case now is brought here.
It is objected by the defendant that this court has not
jurisdiction, on the ground that it does not appear that the
want of jurisdiction of the court below as a Federal court was
the ground of the judgment. But it appears clearly that the
ground of the.judgment was the absence of service on the dcfendant, and that -the plaintiff denied the validity of the
attempt to remove. See Excelswr IVooden Pipe Co. v Pacific
Bridge Co., 185 U S. 282, 284, 285, and cases cited. The
former question was decided to be subject to review on error
by this court in Shepard v Adams, 168 U S. 618. That case
has not been overruled. The latter question was held also
voL. cxcvi-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

proper to be brought here, i- Powers v Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.,
169 U S. 92. The jurisdiction of this court must be sustained.
Coming then to the motion to remand it is said that the
petition to remove was filed too late, because the time for
answer had expired. It would be a strong interpretation of
the New York Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 418, to say that it
requires an answer within twenty days after the summons
when no complaint or even notice stating the sum of money
for which judgment will be taken, ยง419, has been served.
See Dancelv Goodyear Shoe Machinery Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 551.
But it is a sufficient reply to the motion and to the objection
to the removal that the petition was filed as soon as the case.
became.a removable one. Powers v Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.,
169 U S. 92, Kansas City Suburban Belt Ry. v Herman, 187
U. S. 63, 67, 68. The suggestion that the defendant was estopped by the fact that it followed up its motion to stay in
the state court re.accordance with its notice, on October 24,
when the right to remove had been made to appear the daybefore, seems to us too technical, supposing it to be open here.
Indeed it was a proper preliminary in one respect. The order
made on that motion was "that-the defendant be relieved from
any default in appearing herein, and that all proceedings on
the part of the plaintiff be stayed, pending said appeal and
until ten days after the decision thereof, except" an order for
the examination of the plaintiff. It did not estop the defendant from insisting on a substantial right that it got rid of a
purely formal objection which still is pressed-in our opinion
without ground. Dancel v Goodyear S/ioe Machinery.Co., 106
Fed. Rep. 651. The order did not take effect until October 26.
Wilcox v National Shoe & Leather Bank, 67 App. Div N. Y
466, Hastings v Twenty-third Ward Land Improvement Co.,
46 App. Div N. Y 609; Vilas v Page, 106 N. Y 439, 455.
It is urged that the petition did not justify removal, because
the allegation that the time had not arrived at which the defendant was required to answer or plead was an allegation of
a conclusion of law Allegations which involve such conclu-

REMINGTON v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO. - 99
198 U.-S.

Opimon of the Court.

sions import that the facts which justify them are .true. Many
such allegations are permitted to avoid an intolerable prolixity
on matters not likely to be controverted. Haskell v Merrill,
179 Massachusetts, 120, 123, Alton v First Natonal Bank of
Webster, 157 Massachusetts, 341, 343, Commonwealth v Cancy,
154 Massachusetts, 128, 132, Windram v French, 151 Massachusetts, 547, 551, Evans, Pleading, ist ed., 48, 139, 143-146,
149-157, 164. The-facts appeared of record. When the defendant expected the plamtiff to demand more than $2,000
is immaterial. The only material point is when the demand
was stated in the case. Assummg the objection to be open
here, if there was any defect, which we do not imply, it was
but a defect of form. Powers v Chesapeake & Ohio Ry., 169
U. S. 92i 98, 101. The presenting of the petition to a judge
in chambers, and the filing of it in the state court, satisfied the
statute. See Noble v Massachusetts Benefit Assocaton, 48
Fed. Rep. 337, Loop v Winters' Estate, 115 Fed. Rep. 362.
We come then to the setting aside of the summons. We
assume, for purposes of decision, as we already have assumed,
that Shepard v Adams, 168 U. S. 618, is consistent with the
de'eiions that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal
court only is in question. Lowtsville Trust Co. v Knott, 191
U S. 22, Bache v Hunt, 193 U S. 523, Courtney v Pradt,196
V S. 8. If there has been no valid service the court has no
power, and a distinction is possible between such a case and
a mere question touching the proper limits between equity
and laiy, or the traditional authority of the court.. We leave
Shepard v Adams as we find it, since a reconsideration of the
point is not necessary to decide the present case. It is said
that the decision of the state court, although appealed from,
was res.pudicata. But it stood no higher than a similar decision
made by the Circuit Court, if the case had been begun before
that- court. It may be that the defendant would have had
no right to renew its motion, but the Circuit Court would have
had power to give it leave. If the Circuit Court was satisfied
that it, or its predecessor the State court, had made a mistake,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

198 U. S.

it had-power to reopen the matter. It did so and its action in
that respect is not open to question here. However stringent
may be the practice m refusing to reconsider what has been
done, it still is but practice, not want of jurisdiction, that makes
the rule.
The plaintiff in error does not argue the merits of the order
of the Circuit Court. Assuming that they, as well as the jurisdiction of the court to make the order, are open here, we see
no sufficient reason for disturbing the decision. The'Circuit
Court was warranted by the affidavits .before it in finding that
the defendant was doing no business and- had- no property in
the State of New York, and that the service on a director
casually within the State for a few days was bad. Conley v
Mathweson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406, Geer v Mathseson
Alkali Works, 190 U S. 428. The arguments do not seem to
us to need to be noticed in greater detail.
Judgment affirfted.

COVINGTON

v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
COVINGTON.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF COVINGTON
COVINGTON.

v.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE EASTERN -DISTRICT O1 KENTUCKY.

FbR

Nos. 113,114. Argued January 5, 190.-Decided April 17, 103.
A Federal court is not required to give a judgment in a state court any
greater weight than is awarded to it in the courts of the State in which
it was rendered. As it is the settled rule in Kentucky that an.adjudication in a suit for taxes is not an estoppel between the parties as to taxes
of any other year, even though such adjudication involves the finding
of an exemption by contract, not only as to taxcs involved in ihe suit

but also as to all taxes that might be levied under the contract, the

