PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

reports which it was alleged the accused had been bribed to
reveal were not then on file and might never be filed in the
Department. It is said that the Commissioner was not required to determine for himself whether the statute applied
to such reports, but such objections must be remitted for determination to the court in which the.milctment was found.
In other words, the order of arrest and commitment may be
made, although the Commissioner be of opinion that the indictment, in a particular vital to the prosecution of the offense,
aiid which cannot be supplied by other proof, is fatally defective, and the accused is charged with no offense against the
laws of the Umted Stdtes. In our opinion, the Commissioner,
when the case is thus presented, must pass upon the sufficiency
of the indictment. It is his duty to decide whether an offense
is charged, with a view to making or withholding the order of
arrest, which when made,, becomes the basis of .an order of
removal of a citizen to the place of trial, which may be many
miles distant from his home. Such order is proper only in
cases wherein probable cause -has been shown -to believe the
accused guilty of an offense cognizable by the laws of the
United States in the proceeding pending against him, and for
which he is to answer at the place of indictment.

PABST BREWING COMPANY v. CRENSHAW
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 85. Argued December 8, 1904.-Decided April 17,1905.

rhe malt liquor inspection law of Misioun provides for the inspection of
malt liquors manufactured within the State and also for those manufactured without and held for sale and consumption within the State.
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the law deciding among other
things that the act does not affect'liquors shlpped into the State and
held there for reshipment without the State, that it does not discrimnate
in favor bf beer manufactured in the State, and that it is not a revenue,
but an inspection law. The constitutionality of the law was attacked
VOL. COCVIII-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

198 U. S.

by a manufacturer of malt liquors without the State as an interference
with interstate commerce, and also on the ground that as the amount
of the inspection charge far exceeds the expense of inspection it is a
revenue, and not an inspection law, and therefore does not fall under
permissive provisions of the Wilson Act. Held:"
A state statute which operates upon beer and malt liquors shipped from
other States after their arrival and while held for sale and consumption
within the State, is not an interference with interstate commerce in view
of the provisions of the Wilson Act.
The regulation of the sale of liquor is essentially a police power of the
State, and a provision in a state law, tending to determine the purity of
malt liquors sold in the State, is an exercise of the same power.
The purpose of the Wilson Act is to make liquor, after its arrival in a State,
a domestic product, and to confer power on the States to deal with it
accordingly. The police power is, hence, to be measured by the right of
the State to control'or regulate domestic products and this creates a state
and not a Federal question as respects the commerce clause of the Constitution; and this court cannot review the determination of the state
court that the statute involved in this case was not a revenue but an inspection measure.
A state regulation, valid under the Wilson Act, as to liquors shipped from
another State after delivery at destination is not an interference with
interstate commerce because it affects traffic m, and deters shipments
of, the article into that State.
The rule that state inspection laws, which do not provide adequate in
spection and impose a burden beyond the cost of inspection, are repugnant to the commeree clause of the Constitution does not apply to
liquors after they have ceased to be articles of -interstate commerce
under the provisions of the Wilson..Act.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr Clifford Histed, with whom Mr James H. Harkless,
Mr Charles S. Crysler and Mr Francis C Downey were on
the brief, for appellant:
The business is interstate commerce. United States v Swift
& Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 529, Schollenberger v Pennsylvania, 171
U S. 1, Robbins v Taxing District, 120 U S. 489;. Stockard
v Morgan, 185 U S. 27, New York v Roberts, 171 U. S. 658.
Breunng Co. v Brsster, 179 U S. 445, distinguished.
The statute is not within the police power of the State.
The fees bear no just relation to the expense. The fees do
not go to the inspectors but to the State which separately
appropriates for the inspectors' salaries. The receipts are

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

$350,000 and the expenses about $12,500. It was introduced
and regarded as a revenue measure, and afterwards disguised
as an inspection law. House Journal, Missouri Legislation,
1899, 190, 278 452, Sen. Journal, 386, 610, 620; Session Acts,
1901, 226. The act does not regulate the sale of beer. As
to being subject to inspection fees, malt liquors stand on the
same footing as other merchandise under the commerce clause
of the Constitution. License Cases, 5 How 599; Bowman v.
Chwago Ry. Co., 125 U S. 465, and cases cited, Leisy v Hardin, 135 U S. 100, 110; Scott v Donald, 165 U S. 58, 91.
As. intoxicating liquors are subjects of lawful commerce in
Missouri, the. State, in imposing an inspection fee under its
police powr, is bound by the rule that the charge bears /i reasonable and just relation to the cost of inspection. Hopkins v.
United States, 171 U S. 578, 597, Express Co. v Ohio, 166 U S.
185, 218, W U Tel. Co. v New Hope, 187 U S. 419, Telegraph Co. v Philadelphia,190 U S. 160; Postal Tel. Co. v New
Hope, 192 U S. 55, Postal Tel. Co. v Taylor, 192 U S. 64,
No practical inspection is punished by the act, nor uticier
it have the inspectors any power to make an actual inspection.
The statute cannot be sustained as a police regulation because,
in its practical workings, it has no relation whatever to the
public health. Vance v Vandercook Co., 170 U S. 438, 456,
Mugler v Kansas, 123 U S. 623, 6617, Scott v Donald, 165
U. S. 93, Rezd v Colorado, 187 U S. 150.
This court is not bound by the declaration of the state
Supreme Court that the act is an inspection law This court
will determine that for itself, as interstate commerce is involved. Brennan v Titusville, 153 U S. 289; Postal Tel. Co.
v. Taylor, 192 U S. 64, People v Compagnie G6nrale, 107
U. S. 59, 63, Minnesota v Barber, 136 U S. 313.
The tax is not authorized by the Wilson Law The act is an
unreasonable burden on interstate commerce and is not within
the police power as - is a pure revenue measure and does not
come within the provisions of the Wilson Bill. The Missouri
state court held that it did come within the provisions of that

OCTOBER -TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

198 U. S.

acr, 3~ate v..Btxman, 162 Missouri, 38j but that.decision cannot be sustained by the cases cited. See Breunng Co. v Brnster,
179 U S. 445, A55, Breunng Co. v Terre Haute, 98 Fed. Rep.
330;fEx pe(te Jervey, 66 Fed. Rep. 957, Re Bergen, 115 Fed.
Rep. 339; Bremng Co. v McGilivray, 104 Fed. Rep. 258.
Mr Edward C. Crow, Attorney General of the State of
and Mr William M. Williams for appellee:
The Supreme Court of the State has held the law to be constitutional, and it is not open to appellant to question its
validity upon the ground of any supposed conflict with the
state constitution. State v B'zxman, 162 Missouri, 1.
This court will follow the highest court of the State in questions involving the construction of the state constitution.
The only question here is whether the act violates the Federal
Constitution, in determining that, the Federal courts will adopt
the construction given to the statute by the Supreme Court
of fhe State. Cargill Co. v Minnesota, 180 U S. 452.
The "Wilson Bill" puts intoxicating liquors shipped into
a State within the police power of such- State immediately
upon their arrival. Such liquors do not stand upon the same
footing as other articles of interstate commerce, and authorities
touching the latter are inapplicable, since the passage of said
bill, to the for~ner. The State may prescribe the terms and conditions upon which such liquors may be sold, even in original
packages, and, in the absence of discrimination against the products of other States, such regulations are valid. Vance v Vandercoolk Co., 170 U S. 438, Breunng Co. v Brster,179 U.S. 445.
The act is a police measure, is a valid exercise of the police
power of the- State, and comes within the express terms of the
"Wilson Bill." 11 Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, 1st ed', 592;
Black on Intox. Liq. ยง 55, Kurth v State, 86 Tennessee, 134,
McGahey v Virginia, 135 U S. 662; State v Hudson, 78 Missouri, 365: It cannot be that this is not a tax upon the privilege or
,business on the ground that the right to engage in the buiness

-Missouri,

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

is.given by another statute. It was still within the power of
the legislature- to inpose additional conditions .and burdens
upon the privilege of carrying on the business. It is not necessary that all the .regulations of the liquor traffic should be
contained in one statute. State v Luddington, 33 Wisconsin,
107, Kurth v State, 86 Tennessee, 134.
Complainant, after the passage of this act, was not authorized to sell beer by virtue of a license gianted to it under other
statutes, unless-it also complied with the requirements of this
law
'The right to manufacture and sell intoxicating liquors is
not a natural right and may be granted or withheld by the
legislature. Cases cited -supra: Black, ยง 39; Austzn v State,
10 Missouri, 591, State v Bixman, 162 Missouri, 1. The
legislature may impose what conditions it sees fit. Boston
Beer Co. v Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25,. Danville-v, Hatcheri44
S. E. Rep. 723, Tragresser v Gray, 9. L. R. A. 780; Ex parte
Sikes, 24 L. R. A. 7-74, Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed., 587.
If appellant's contention, that under the guise of an inspection law, the state statute simply imposes a specific tax upon
beer for general revenue purposes, was correct, still'there is nothing in the interstate commerce claus) of the Federal Constitution to prevent such tax. Hinsonv Lott, 8 Wall. 148, Am. Steel
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S.-500; Carstarsv Cochran,193 U S. 10.'
MR. JusTiCE WmITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The Pabst Brewing Company, a Wisconsin corporation,
filed its bill in the court below to enjoin the beer inspector of
the State of Missouri and his assistant from collecting or attempting to collect an inspection charge, fee, license or burden,
which it was alleged, the law of Missouri imposed upon beer or
other, malt liquors when shipped from other States into Missouri, after its deliverT within that State to the consignee, and
when held for sale for consumption in Missouri or for'shipment
to other States. The general ground.upon which thb law was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

assailed was that the exactions complained of were regulations
of commerce repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. It was in addition specially averred that so far as
the law imposed a charge on beer shipped from Wisconsin into
Missouri, and held there by the consignee for sale and shipment
for consumption in other States, the Missouri law was repugnant to the conmerce clause, because in this particular it
discriminated in favor of beer manufactured in Missouri and
held for sale or shipment for consumption in other States.
The bill was amended and demurred to. Whilst the court
considered the law not to be in conflict with the commerce
clause on the general grounds alleged, it nevertheless concluded,
because of the averment concerning discrimination as to beer
shipped into Missouri for reshipment to other States, that the
demurrer could not be sustained. 120 Fed. Rep. 144. An
answer was thereupon filed, as also a replication, and subsequently the cause was submitted upon the. pleadings and an
agreed statement of facts.
The Supreme Court of Missouri having decided that the law
in question did not provide for any charge or burden upon beer
or other malt liquors shipped into Missouri and held there for
reshipment to. points outside of the State, the court below,
adhering to its previous opinion as to the general averments
of the bill, and applying the construction given by the Supreme
Court of the State to the statute, held that it did not discriminate, and dismissed the suit.
The law -of Missouri in question is entitled "An act creating
the office of anspector of beer and malt liquors of the State,
and providing for the inspection of beer and malt liquors
manufactured and sold in this State." The provisions of the
act essential to be considered may be summarized as follows:
It creates the office 1of beer inspector, to be appointed- by
the Governor, who shall be an expert beer brewer, and who is
required to furnish a bond, and is given power to appoint the
necessary -deputies to execute the provisions of the act. The
.act forbids every person or corporation engaged.,in brewing

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW,
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the State from using any materisl or chemical in the
manufacture of beer- or other malt liquors other than pure
hops or pure extract of hops, or barley, malt, or wholesome
yeast or rice. It is provided that the inspector or his deputies
shall keep a record of those engaged in the manufacture, brewing and sale of malt liquors within the State and of the qu'antity
manufia ured or sold, and shall make a full report to theGovernor concerning the same, and imposes upon the officials
named the duty of inspecting all beer or other malt liquors
manufactured -or sold within the State, to see that they conform to the standard 6f purity which the law requires_ The
act further .imposes an inspection fee, charge or license, accompanied with provisions for a label or stamp to be affixed
upon the packages containing the beer or other malt liquors so
manufactured or offered foK sale within the State. Concerning beer or other malt liquors manufactured outside
of the State of Missouri and shipped into that State for sale
and consumption wthin the State, after delivery and receipt
under the shipment, the act provides as follows:
"SEC. 5. 'Every person, persons or corporation who shall
receive for sale or offer for sale any beer or other malt liquors
other than those manufactured in this State shall, upon receipt of same, and before offering for sale, notify the inspector,'
who shall be furnished with a sworn affidavit, subscribed by an
officer authorized to admmister oaths, from the manufacturer
thereof, or other reputable person having actual knowledge
of the composition of said beer or other malt liquors, that no
material other than pure hops or the extract of hops, or pure
barley, malt or wliolesome yeast, or rice, was used in the
manufacture of same, upon the receipt of said affidavit the
inspector shall inspect and label the packages containing said
beer or malt liquors, for which services he shall receive like
fees as those imposed upon the manufacturers of beer and
malt liquors in this State."
In the printed and oral argurmient at bar all the contentions
concerning discrimination -are waived, and the sole ground

'OCTOBER"TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

relied upon is the assertion that the statute constitutes a
regulation of -commerce and is hence repugnant to. the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
Brevity and clearness in the consideration of the propositions relied upon to sustain the contentions made will be subserved by fixing at the outset exactly what the statute does
and by stating the legal principles which are controlling.
The subject with. which the statute deals is beer-and other
malt liquors. Plainly, it operates upon such liquors only
whenmanufactured in the State or k shipped from other States,
after their arrival in the State and when they are held there
for sale and consumption- therein.
- Itis provided by the act of Congress, commonly styled the
Wilson. Act, 26 Stat. 313, c. 728, as follows:
"That all fermented, distilled, or other intoxicating liquors
or liquids transported into any State or Territory or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall
-upon arrival in such State or Territory be subject to the
operation and effect of the laws 'of such State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent
and in the same manner-s though such liquids or lifquors had
been-produced in such State or Territory, and shall not be
qxempt therefrom by reason of being mtrduced therein in
original packages or otherwise."
The scope of this act and the power of Congress to adopt it
were pass3d upon in In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545. The scope of
the act was thus stated (p. 560)
"Congress has now 'spoken and declared that imported
liquors or liquids shall, upon arrival in a State, fall within the
category of domestic articles of a similar nature."
It was decided that although the act-had the effect thus
stated it was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, the court saying (p. 562)
"No reason is perceived why, if Congress chooses to provide
that certain designated subjects of interstate commerce.shall
be governed by a rule -which divests them of that character at

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S.

Opiron ofthe Cort

an earlier period of time than would otherwise be the case, it
is not within its competency to do so."
In Rhodes v Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, the purport of the act was
-agam passed upon. Reiterating the ruling made in the Rahrer
case, it was decided that whilst the Wilson Act caused liquors
shipped into Iowa from another State to be divested of their
character as articles of interstate commerce after their delivery in Iowa to the person to whom consigned, nevertheless
the act did not authorize the laws of Iowa to be applied to
such merchandise -whilst in transit from another State and
before delivery in Iowa.
In Vance v. Vandercook Co., No. 1, 170 U S. 438, the operation of a liquor law of South Carolina was considered. By
the act in question the State of South Carolina took exclusive
charge of the sale of liquor within the State, appointed its
agents to sell the same, and empowered them to purchase the
liquor, which was to be brought into the State for sale. The
fact was that by the act in question the State of South Carolina, instead of forbidding the traffic in liquor, authorized it,
and engaged in the liquor business for its own account, using
it as a source of revenue. The act in addition affixed pre-requisite conditions to the shipment into South-Carolina from
other States of liquor to a consumer who had purchased it for
his own use and not for sale. Considering the Wilson Act and
the previous decisions applying it, it was decided that the
South Carolina law, in so far as it took charge in behalf of the
State of the sale of liquor within the State and made such sale
a source of. revenue, was not an interference with interstate
commerce. In so far, however, as the state law imposed
burdens on the right to ship liquor from another State to a
resident of South Carolina intended for his own use and not
for sale within the State, the law was held to be repugnant to
-the Constitution, because the Wilson Act, whilst it delegated
to the State plenary power to regulate the sale of liquors in
South Carolina shipped into the State from other States, did
not recognize the right of a State to prevent an individual

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Cout.

198 U. S.

from ordering liquors from outside of the State of his residence
for his own consumption and not for sale.
Quite recently, at this term, in Amercan Express Company
v Iowa, and Adams Express Co. v Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, 147,
the construction affixed to the Wilson Act in the previous cases
was applied, and the power of the State of Iowa to control
the sale of liquors shipped from another State into that State,
after their delivery to the consignee, was upheld.
Applying the Wilson Act and the decisions thereunder to
the statute here assailed, we think it clear that the contention
that it is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution
is without merit, unless the reasons urged to show that the
present case is not within 'the scope of the Wilson Act be well
founded. We proceed to consider the contentions relied on
to establish that proposition.
1st. The Wilson Act, it is argued, subjects liquors shipped
from one State into another, after their arrival at their destination, only toJthe "laws of such State or Territory enacted in
the exercise of its police powers
" As, it is said, the
law of Missouri-was not enact3d in the exercise of the police
power, hence malt liquor received from another State and held
in Missouri for sale retained its character as an article of interstate commerce until sold in the original package.
But the proposition rests upon the mere assumption that
the law of Missouri was not enacted m the exercise of the police
power of that-State. Certainly the regulation of the sale of
liquor is essentially a police power. Surely, also, provision
made in a state law tending to determine the purity of malt
liquors offered for s'ale and consumption within a State is
likewise an exertion of the same power. Conceding that the law in question may be inadequate to accomplish the purpose
designed and produces a large revenue to the State over and
above the cost of inspection, this affords no Federal ground
upon which to hold that the police power of the State was not
brought into play in making the enactment, where the law
does not operate upon a subject within Federal control. This

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW

198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

becomes evident when it is borne in mind that, whither the,
statute be regarded as a prohibition, as a regulation, as a
license or as an inspection law, if it encroached upon the
Federal authority it would be void, and, on the contrary, in
all or any of these aspects, the law would be valid, so far as
the Federal Constitution is concerned, if it did not so encroach.
The purpose of the Wilson Act was to make liquor after its
arrival a domestic product -and to confer power upon the
States to deal with it accordingly The police power is hence
to be measured by the right of a State to control or regulate
domestic products, a state and not a Federal question as
respects the commerce clause of the Constitution. So far as
the state aspect is concerned the matter is foreclosed by a
decision ofr the Supreme Court of Missouri passing upon the
validity, under the state constitution, of the law now under
consideration. State v Bixman, 162 Missouri, 1. In that
case a person was proceeded against for selling malt liquor
made within the State of Missouri without complying with
the statute. The validity of the statute was assailed, on the
ground, among others, that it was a revenue law and repugnant
to the uniformity clause of the state constitution, that it was
not an inspection law because it did not provide for an adequate
inspection, and because the burden which it imposed was obviously out of all proportion to the cost of inspection, since
the charge which was exacted copiously enriched the state
treasury The state court, after an elaborate review of its
previous decisions, held that the mere fact that a revenue was
produced by the execution of the statute did not cause the
statute to be merely a revenue measure, and that although the
inspection which the law provided might be inadequate, nevertheless the statute did not violate the state constitution.
These views were sustained upon the ground that the statute
dealt with a subject which was peculiarly within the police
power of the State. Summing up its conclusions as to the
validity of the statute, the court declared.
"In our opinion, it [the law] ss a police regulation, smposing

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

conditions upon the bunness of manufacturng and selling beer
and malt liquors sn thzs State, which business the State may
absolutely suppress, or permit upon such terms as the legislature may prescribe. We construe the act in view of all its
parts, and in connection with other license laws of this State,
and hold that the fee exacted is the price which the State demands for the privilege of doing the business of brewing and
selling beer and malt liquors in this State, and it is immaterial
by what name it is called."
As then, the Supreme Coirt of Missouri has determined
that the statute does not conflict with the state constitution
and is valid because it is a police regulation imposing conditions upon the business of manufacturing and selling beer in
Missouri, a traffic which it is conceded the State had the power
to prohibit entirely, it follows that we are without power, from
a consideration of the state constitution, to treat the law as
invalid because of the revenue provisions of the state constitution or other limitations imposed by that constitution upon
the state government. It necessarily results from this that
the assailed law comes directly within the express terms of
the Wilson Act. The determination of this question by the
Supreme Court of Missouri, as to liquor manufactured in
Missouri, in the absence of discrimination, is necessarily conclusive also as to the character of the law when applied to a
similar article shipped from other States into Missouri after
arrival at its destination, and when held for sale and consumption in that State. This must be the case, since, as we
have seen, the Wilson Act, to use the words of In re Rahrer,
places liquor coming from another State after its arrival
"within the category of domestic articles of a similar nature."
To decide that an exertion by a State of its power to regulate the sale of malt liquors -manufactured within the State
was an exercise of its police authority, and yet to say that the
same, when applied to liquor shipped into the State from other
States, after delivery, was not an exertion of the police power,
would be to destroy the Wilson Act, and frustrate the very

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S.

Opiroon of the Court.

object which it was intended to accomplish, and besides would
overrule the previous decisions of this court upholding and
enforcing that,statute.
We need not, however, further considef the subject, since
the proposition relied upon is not open to discussion, as a
similar contention was expressly ruled upon m Vance v Vandercook Co., No. 1, supra. In that case, as has already been
said, the State of South Carolina had by law taken charge of
the sale of liquors in the various counties of the State, no liquor
being allowed to be sold except through the state agencies.
The law by which this system was put in force had been upheld by the state courts as a lawful exertion of the police power.
The validity of the act was assailed m the Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground of' its repugnancy to the commerce clause of the Constitution, and the lower court sustained
the contention. Among the grounds relied upon in this court
was that the law in question was not within the Wilson Act,
because it was not an exertion of the police power of the State,
since it did not forbid the sale of liquor, but on the contrary
fostered and encouraged it and made it a source of revenue.
In holding this proposition to be untenable the court said
(p. 447)
"The confusion of thought which is involved in the propQsition to which we-have just referred is embodied in the principle
upon which the court below mainly rested its conclusion.
That is, 'if all alcoholic liquors, by whomsoever held, are declared contraband, they cease to belong to commerce, and are
within the jurisdiction of the police power; but so long as their
manufacture, purchase or sale, and their use as a beverage in
any form or by any person are recognized, they belong to
commerce and are without the domain of the police power.,
But this restricts the police power to the mere right to forbid,
and denies any and all authority to regulate or restrict. The
manifest purpose of the act of Congress was to subject original
packages to the regulations and -restraints imposed by the
state law If the purpose of the act had been to allow the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimnon of the Court.

198 U. S.

state law to govern the sale of the original package only where
the sales of all liquor were forbidden, this object could have
found ready expression, whilst, on the contrary, the entire
context of the act manifests the purpose of Congress to give
to 'the respective States full legislative authority, both for the
purpose of prohibition as well as for that of regulation and
restriction with reference to the sale in original packages of
intoxicating liquors brought in from other States."
2d. Conceding, it is argued, that the Missouri statute attached to the liquor after delivery at its destination in Missouri, nevertheless as the burdens which the statute imposed
-were of such a character as to affect traffic in the article and
hence operate to deter shipments into -issouri, therefore the
statute must be treated as if it bore upon the liquor while still
in transit as a subject of interstate commerce. This proposition simply amounts to contending that the Wilson Act should
be disregarded, since to enforce it would give the States power
to regulate interstate traffic in liquor. If when a State has but
exerted the power lawfully conferred upon it by the act of
Congress its action becomes void as an interference with interstate commerce because of the reflex or indirect influence
arming from the exercise of the lawful authority, the result
would be that a State might exert its power to control or
regulate liquor, yet if it did so its action would amount to a
regulation of commerce and be void. And this would be but
to say at one and the same time that the power could and
could not be -exercised. But the proposition would have a
much more serious result, since to uphold it would overthrow
the distinction between direct and indirect burdens upon interstate commerce by means of which the harmonious workings
of our constitutional system has been made possible. 3d. It is further insisted that, as the Missouri law is denominated in its text as an inspection law, and does not provide 'an adequate inspection, and besides imposes a, burden
beyond the cost of inspection, the law is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States when tested by previous

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW
198 U. S. BnowN, J., The CIEar JusTICE, BREWra

and D_,

JJ., dissenting.

decisions of this court determining when particular inspection
laws amounted to a regulation of commerce, citing Atlantc &
Pacific Telegraph Co. v Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160, and Postal
Telegraph-CableCo. v New Hope, 192 U S. 55. These cases,
however, simply considered state laws which operated upon
interstate commerce. To apply them to the Missouri law
necessarily involves deciding that the malt liquors to which
that law applied had not ceased to be articles of interstate
commerce; and, therefore, again, merely disregards the Wilson
Act and the decisions of this court concerning it. Indeed, the
whole argument upon whudh the entire case of the plaintiff in
error proceeds rests upon this fallacious assumption, since it
admits on the one hanJ the-validity o^ the Wilson Law, and yet
seeks to take this case out of the reach of its, provisions by
distinctions which have no foundation in reason, unless it be
that that law is to be disregarded or held to be unconstitutional.
Decree affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BROWN, with whom the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR.
JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE D.Y concurred, dissenting.

The opinion of the court is put upon the ground that the
Wilson Act subjects liquors shipped from one State into another, after their arrival at their destination, to the laws of the
State or Territory enacted in the exercise of its police powers;
and that, as an inspection law is a law enacted in the exercise
of its police powers, the law in question is within the act; and
we are consequently precluded from inquiring whether such
law is a legitimate exercise of the police powers or a mere
revenue law to which the name of an inspection law is given
for the purpose of obviating the difficulty, under the state
constitution, of upholding it as a revenue measure. It may be
conceded at once that if the. law, in question be a legitimate
inspection law it necessarily follows that, as it was enacted in
the exercise of the police power of the State, it applies to
foreign liquors "to the same extent and in the same manner

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BROWN,

J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and DAY, JJ., dissenting. 198 U. S.

as though such liquors.or liquids had been produced in such
State or Territory, and shall not-be exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced in original. packages or otherwise."
The opinion practically concedes that the act must, if constitutional, be supported as an inspection law, passed under
the police power of the State; and such was the position taken
by the Supreme Court of Missouri. It was admitted in that
case, both by the majority and minority judges, that the act
could not be supported as a revenue measure, because in conflict with the constitution of the State.
To determine the question whether it can be supported as
an inspection law it is necessary to consider at some length
the nature of its provisions.
The agreed statement of facts shows that the plaintiff manufactures in the State of Wisconsin ten different kinds or grades
of beer and malt liquors, each kind being separately manufactured and requiring special treatment; that it ships into
the State of Missouri annually not less than 15,000 barrels of
malt liquors, of thirty-one gallons each, of the aggregate value
of $100,000; that there are a large number of domestic manufacturers of malt liquor in the State of Missouri, whose annual
productions amount- to over 2,250,000 barrels of beer of the
aggregate value of $12,250,000, of which 1,275,000 are sold
within the State; that there are other manufacturers outside
of the State standing in the same position as the plaintiff, who
annually ship into the State not less than 165,000 barrels of
the aggregate value of $1,725,000, beside that imported from
abroad', that Iilamtiff is licensed to carry on business in Missouri, that such business consists of shipping into the State,
for the purposes of selling therein or reshipping therefrom,
the product of'its manufacture in Wisconsin, that in the usual
course of its business it is compelled to maintain large warehouses in the State, as well as an office, as a necessary adjunct
to the conduct of its business; that it maintains no manufactory
in Missouri, and that it disposes of its beer in the original packages in which it is shipped.

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S. BRoWK, J., The Cni. JUsTiCe, BREWER and DAY, J3., dissenting.

There are insuperable difficulties in the way of the maintenance of this act as an inspection measure.
To inspect, as defined'by Webster, is to examine, to view
closely and critically, especially in order to ascertain quality
and condition, to detect errors, etc.
The object of the act is declared by section 4 to be to exclude the use of any substance, material or chemical, in the
manufacture of malt liquors other than pure hops, or pure
extract of hops, or pure barley, malt or wholesome yeast or
nee. So far as beer manufactured within the State is concerned, the inspection is made, or at least may be made, State
v Bizman, 162 Missouri, 1, 34, of the ingredients of the beer
in the mash tub and before Lhe beer is actually brewed. The
inspector goes to the brewery and makes his test by taking
a sample of the mash of the beer there fermenting, and, although thousands of gallons may be madefrom one mash, a
single inspection is sufficient. With respect to beer manufactured outside of the State, section 5 requires that the
consignee of the beer shall notify the inspector, who shall be
furnished with a sworn affidavit, subscribed by an officer authorized to administer oaths, from the manufacturer thereof
or other reputable person having actual knowledge of the
composition of said beer or malt liquors, that no material other
than pure hops, or -the extract of hops, or pure barley, malt or
wholesome yeast or nee, was used in the manufacture of the
same. "Upon the receipt of said affidavit the mspector-shall
inspect and label the packages containing said beer or malt
liquors, for which services he shall receive like fees as those
imposed upon the manufacturers of beers and malt liquors
in this State."
It is true his section seems to require that upon receipt of
such affidavit the inspector shall inspect and label the packages. But similar words used in section 7 with regard to
domestic beer were interpreted by the Supreme Court in State
v. Bixmcn, 162 Missouri, 1, as requiring only an-inspection of
the mash at the brewery, since the actvDI inspection of the beer
voL' . oxovrn-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BROWN, J., The CmIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and DAY, JJ., dissenting. 198 U. S.

would require the opening of each package, or at least a sample
package, which would practically rum the contents. As it is
impossible to suppose that the legislature should have contemplated that -the inspectors should visit breweries outside
of the State alad inspect the mash, or that .they should open
the packages after their receipt in the State, and thus spoil
the beer, it would seem that the inspectors have no alternative
but to accept the affidavit as a basis of their inspection. This
is said to be the manner m which the law is practically administered. Indeed, the agreed facts show that the beer involved in this case was inspected while still in the hands of
the plaintiff, that the packages were never opened, but the
affidavit was~accepted as a sufficient compliance with the act.
While this may be the only inspection practicable, it is
really no inspection at all, since it. is dependent entirely upon
the veracity of the-person making the affidavit. There is no
power given to these inspectors to investigate the truth of the
statements contained in these affidavits, except, possibly, by
tasting or analyzing the beer. There is no penalty provided
for making a false affidavit, nor can the State proceed against
the manufacturer who is beyond the jurisdiction of the court.
There is no assurance that the affidavit, which may be made
in the State of. manufacture as well as in Missouri, has any
relation to the particular shipment to which it is sought to
apply it, and there is no power given even to open the boxes
in which bottled liquors purport to be enclosed, to examine
their contents. The object of inspection laws is to require
such examination of the thing inspected as will insure to the
public a safe and wholesome article. Obviously to secure this
the inspection must be made by officers appointed for that
purpose, at least it cannot be delegated, as it virtually is in this
case, to the manufacturer. The requirement of an affidavit,
and the acceptance of this in lieu of an actual inspection, make
the affiant, who is the manufacturer or his agent, the sole judge
of the fact whether the liquor contains only the ingredients
allowed by law We cannot treat this as a bona fide mspec-

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW
198 U. S. BROww, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

tion. To 3ustify an inspection in law there must be an in.spection in fact.
We had occasion in Vance v Vandercook Co., No. 1, 170
U. S. 438, 456, to pass upon a law requiring a sample of alcoholic liquor proposed to.be shipped, to be sent to the(state
officer in advance of the -shipment, and as a prerequisite to
making a subsequent shipment. We held that the inspection
of a sample so sent in advance was not in the slightest degree
an inspection of the goods subsequently sent into the State.
",The sample may be one thing and the merchandise which
thereafter comes in another." This is a much stronger case
for. the -application of the principle, as there is no inspection
at all, but the acceptance of an affidavit made by an interested
party in lieu thereof. Indeed, so perfunctory is this inspection
that it appears to have awakened a suspicion in the court below
"that the legislature was more concerned in collecting fees to
swell the exchequer of the State, than in the protection of the
people who might drink beer."
The obvious inefficacy of the inspection has an important
bearing upon the more serious objection to this act, in. that
the fees for inspection bear no just relation to the expense,
and make it evident that the law was not passed in a bona fide
exercise of the police powers of the State, but as a convenient
method of increasing the public revenues. Section 8 provides
for an inspection fee of one cent per gallon and two cents for
labelling each package containing eight gallons, making a total
fee of one and a quarter cent per gallon. All of these fees are
required to be paid into the state treasury, and pass to the
general revenue fund of the State. The inspectors cannot
even deduct their salaries from the fees, but are paid by a
distinct appropriation for that purpose.
It is conceded in the stipulation of facts that the entire expenditure authorized on account of actual inspection amounts
to $12,500, and that the inspection fees annually collected
amount to $356,000, or $337,500 in excess of the costs for inspection, and that the fees chargeable under said act upon the

OJOTOBER TERM, 1904.
BRowN, J., The CHIEF JUSTICE,

BREWER and DY, JJ., dissenting. 198 U. S.

malt liquors manufactured out of and brought into the State
from other States and from foreign countries, for sale in Missouri, exceed the total authorized cost for inspection, approximately, $60,000 a year.
In this connection it is pertinent to. notice that the bill in
question when first introduced in the House was entitled "An
act creating the office of inspector of, beer and malt liquors,
and providing for the creation of a fund for the construction
of roads and highways;" and as originally introduced into the
Senate contained the words "providing for the increase of the
general revenue fund." In the bill as passed these words were
stricken out, and the words "providing for the inspection of
beers and malt liquors manufactured and sold m this State"
inserted in their place. Notw thstanding these changes in the
title of the bill as finally passed, it is evident that the main
object was.to increase the general fund of the State by the
amount of the inspection fees, less the expenses of the inspection, and that the inspection was really an incident to or an
'excuse for the revenue to be derived from the act. These facts
are a cogent argument in favor of applying to this case the rule
established in a number of recent cases, that fees cannot be
imposed for the purpose of inspection upon companies doing
an interstate business which are so -far in excess of the expenses
of such inspection as to. make it plain that they were adopted,
not as a means of paying such expenses, but as a means of
raising revenue.
The latest of these is that of the Postal Telegraph-Cable Company v Taylor, 192 U S.64, wherein a license fee was inposed

upon the telegraph company which largely exceeded the entire
cost to the company of maintaining its'line, including repairs,

reconstruction, costs of 1hbor and of material and travelling
expenses of employds, and all expenses mcurred by it in a
careful inspection of its poles and wires. The ordinance was

defended as a police regulation. It was argued that the question of revenue.was not its object, but that the defendant had
the right tW constantly inspect the poles and wires to protect

PABST BREWING 00. v. CRENSHAW
198 U. S.

BROWN, J., The CHiES JusTiCE, Bi wERn and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

the lives of its citizens. The court found the borough to have
been sparsely settled; that it had done nothing in the way of
inspection, and had incurred no liability therefor; that the fee
was twenty times as large as was necessary to make the most
careful and- efficient inspection that could have been inade.
The ordinance -was adjudged to be invalid, the court saying:
"To uphold itin such a case as this is to say that it may be
passed-for one purpose and used for another; passed as a police
inspection measure and used for the purpose of raising revenue,
that the enactment as a police measure'may be used as a mere
subterfuge for the purpose of raising revenue, and yet, because
it is said to be an inspection measure, the court must take it
as such and hold it valid, although resulting in a rate of taxation-which, if carried out throughout the country, would bankrupt the company, were it added to the other taxes properly
assessed for revenue, and paid by the company"
In previous cases arising under a similar state of facts the
ordinances had been upheld as within the police power of the
municipality, -St. Louts v Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92; 149
U. S. 465, Western Unwn Tel. Co. v New Hope, 187 U. S. 419,
in which the ordinances were sustained upon the ground that
the fees were not so excessive as to justify the inference that
they were. not imnposed as a bona fide exercise of the -police
powers, and in Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v Philadelphia,
190 U. S. 160, in which the question of reasonableness was held
to have been properly submitted to the jury, and Postal Telegraph-CableCo. v -NewHope, 192 U S. 55, in which the verdict.
of a jury for a less amount than that fixed by the ordinance
was held to be a verdict that the charge was unreasonable, and
should have been followed by a judgment for the-telegraph
companyThe facts of this case show that the inspection, as applied
to malt liquors manufactured out of the State, was purely
perfunctory, and accomplished nothing for the protection of
its citizens, but that the fee, derivable therefrom was thirty
times the actual cost of such inspection, even when applied

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BRoWN, J., The Cm~m JUsTicE, BREWER and DAY, JJ.,dissenting. 198 U. S.

to liquors manufactured within the State. A disproportion
so gross can only be accounted for upon the theory that the
act was intended for the purposes of revenue and not for
inspection.
It is insisted, however, that as the Supreme Court of the
State has in the case of State v Bizman, 162 Missouri, 1, by
a majority vote, upheld the constitutionality of the act as an
inspection law, applied.to beer of domestic manufacture, and
not as an act for raising revenue, we are bound by this definition, and are precluded from considering it in any other light
than that of an inspection fee or license tax. But a question
of constitutional law cannot be answered by a definition.
While, as we have frequently said, we adopt the interpretation
of the statute of a State affixed to it by the court of last resort
thereof, we still feel at liberty in accepting such interpretation,
to determine for ourselves whether the act is a bona fide exercise of the police power of the State and not intended merely
as an excuse for the taxation of interstate commerce.
As was said by this court in Mugler v Kansas, 123 U. S.
623, 661 "If, therefore, a statute purporting to have been
enacted to protect the public health, the public morals, or the
public safety, has no real or substantial relation to those objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to so adjudge, and
thereby give effect to the Constitution."
In"
Railroad Co. v Husen, 95 U. S.465, the validity (fthe
act of the State of Missouri, which prohibited the introduction
into the State of any Texas or Mexican cattle between the
months of March and November of each year, was considered.
It was insisted that the law was valid as a quarantine or inspection law, as its purpose was to prevent the introduction
of cattle afflicted with contagious diseases. But the court
pointed out that no provision was made for the actual inspection of the cattle, so as to secure the rejection of those that
were diseased, but that all importation of cattle, whether
sound or diseased, was forbidden for long periods; and it was

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S. Bnowx, J., The CHiEF JUSTICE, BREwER and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

held that the statute was void as a plain intrusion upon the
exclusive domain of Congress.
And in Rezd v Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 150, this court
said.
"Certain principles are well settled by the former deisions
of this court. One is that the purpose of a statute, in whatever language it may be framed, must be determined by its
natural and reasonable effect. Henderson v Mayor of New
York, 92 U S. 259, 268. Another is that a State may not,
by its police regulations, whatever their object, unnecessarily
burden foreign or interstate commerce. Railroad Company y.
Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 472. Again, the acknowledged police
powers of a State cannot legitimately be exerted so as to defeat or impair a right secured- by the National Constitution,
any more than to defeat or impair a statute passed by Congress in pursuance of the powers gra4ted to it. Gibbons v
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co.
v Haber, 169 U S. 613, 625, 626, and authorities cited."
The reasonableness of the law as compared with the cost of
inspection is made the test of the validity of the law in Patapsco
Guano Co. v North Carolina Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S.
345, Willis v Standard Oil Co., 50 Minnesota, 290.
But treating it as an inspection law, the question remains
whether, as applied to beer manufactured in other States, it is
a bona fide exercise of the police powers of the State to protect
the health of its citizens, and for the reasons already given we
are of opinion it is not. The fact that the law may have been
valid as applied to liquors manufactured, within the State does
not remove the difficulty, as the Wilson Act only applies to
the police powers of the State to the same extent and in the
same manner as though the liquQrs had been produced within
the State. If foreign liquors were subject to the same inspection as domestic liquors there would be much force in the contention. that the inspection was covered by the terms of the
-Wilson Act; but as in this case domestic liquors were actually
inspected, and foreign liquors were not inspected at all, the
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BnowN, J., The CHIEF JusTicE, BREwm and DAY, JJ., dissenting. 198 U. S.

act does not apply The object of the act is merely to place
foreign and, domestic liquors on the same footing as respects
the police powers of the State. The inference is drawn m
the opinion of the court that upon the arrival of foreign
liquors at their destination the State may deal with such liquors as it pleases; m other words, that they have passed
wholly beyond the Federal control as subjects of interstate
commerce.
The Wilson Act was passed in consequence of our decision
in Lewy v Hardin, 135 U. S. .100, to the effect that a state
atatute prohibiting the sale of liquors was unconstitutional,
as applied to a sale by the importer from another State in
original packages. That case was put upon the ground that
liquors had always been recognized by the commercial world
as subjects of exchange, barter and traffic, and that the State
could not prohibit their importation from abroad or their sale
by the importer. To meet this exigency, and to enlarge the
powers of the State with respect to intoxicating liquors, the
Wilson Act was passed, declaring that upon their arrival in
the State they should be subject to the police powers of the
State to the same extent and in the same manner as though
such liquos had been produced within such State. The constitutionality of this act was sustained in Rahrer's case, 140
U. S. 545, although in the subsequent case of Rhodes v Iowa,
170 U. S. 412, it was held that the Wilson Act did not operate
to attach to liquors the prohibitory legislation of the State at
the moment they reached, the state line, or before the completion of the act o transportation by their arrival at their
point of destinatiQn and delivery to the consignee.
*The primary, if not the sole, object of the Wilson Act was
to attach the prohibitory laws of the State as a police measure
to liquors the moment they were delivered to the consignee,
although they might still be m their original packages. The
State was then at liberty to forbid their sale.
The act does not affect the right of snspection, since that
right was one which existed wholly independent of the act,

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW
198 U. S.

BmOwx, J., The CHmF JusTicE, BREWER and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

and had been applied and recognized ever since the case of
City of New York v Miln, 11 Pet. 102, as one of the ordinary
police powers of the State, which it was at liberty to exercise
quite irrespective of any Federal statute for. the protection
of the health 'of its citizens. The Wilson Act neither creates,
adds -to, takes from or affects the police powers of the State
with respect to inspection in any particular. The power of the
State to enact inspection laws, provided that such-laws are intended in good faith for the protection of the people, and not
as a covert means for raising revenue by exorbitant charges,
remiams precisely as it was before the act was passed. In the
Mi/m case an act of the State of New York, requiring the masters of vessels arrivmg from foreign ports to report to the -city
authorities the names, etc., of his passengers, was upheld as a
proper exercise of the police power;, though subsequently; in
the Passenger Cases, 7 How "283, a sunilar law, requiring the
master of vessels to pay a certain sum on account of every
passenger brought from a foreign country into the State,"was
held to be inoperative, although passed under the general
denonination of a health law It was said that, although the
amount of the tax was small, it might have been increased so
as to become prohibitory at the discretion of the legislature,
and the fact that the tax was applied to the maintenance of a
marine hospital, and to the reformation of juvenile delinquents; showed that it could not be sustained as an exercise
of the police power.
While we may concede that the liquors in this case had"
arrived at their destination, it does not follow that they were
subject to any law which the State chose to pass in an assumed
exercise of the police power. The State has an undoubted
right to inspect all goods arriving therein, but it does not follow
that it has the right to subject them to an inspection which is.
no inspection at all, and charge them with a fee out of all
proportion to the costs of even a proper inspection, and call
it an exercise of the police power. Though these liquors had
arrived at their destination, the State provided, by section 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BrowN, J., The CmF JUSTICE, BREwER and DA-Y,.JJ., dissenting. 193 U. S.

of the act, that they should be inspected before offering them
for sale and before they had been commingled with the general
mass of property The fact that they had been delivered to
the consignee was of no materiality, since the act ;Nhich the
State required should be done was one which applied a condition precedent to their admission to the State for commercial
purposes. Until this act was performed, they were protedted
against an unlawful interference. This inspection might have
taken place at the state line, but for the convenience of the
state officers, as well as that of the brewers, it was postponed
until the arrival at their destination, as is frequently the case
in foreign countries, where imported goods are not examined at
the frontier, but at Paris or London, upon their arrival there;
but they are not legally entered until such examination takes
place. To say that.their character as interstate commerce existed at the state line, but had been lost upon their arrival at
their place of destination before they had shown themselves entitled to enter the State, is to apply a test wholly irrelevant under the circumstances. Indeed, in the case of Rhodes v Iowa,
170 U. S. 412; we held expressly that the prohibitory liquor laws
did not apply to liquors while in transit from their point of
shipment to their delivery to the consignee. The vital question is whether the inspection was applied at a time prior to
their legal inportation into the State as a commercial article.
If it were, and the inspection were a lawful one, it is a proper
regulation of interstate commerce, but if the inspection were
not a bona fide exercise of the police power it was an unlawful
interference with such commerce. Whether the inspection
was made at the state line or at the destination of the goods
is absolutely immatefial.
The'case of Vance v Vanderco6k Company, No. 1, 170 U. S.
438, so strongly relied upon in the opinion of the court, seems
to me to have little or no bearing on this feature of this case,
and tends rather to support the theory that the Wilson Act
had nothing to do with the question of inspection. The cas&
turned upon the power of the consignee of liquors to receive

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW
198 U. S. BROWN, J., The CHIEF JusTinE, BREWER and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

โขthexm for.-his own use within the State of South Carolina, as
well-As the power to sell them in the original unbroken packages a' inported, to citizens of South Carolina. It was held
in substance that the consignee had the constitutional right
to receive them for his own use without regard to the state
laws, but that under the Wilson Act he. could no longer assert
.p"right to sell them in original packages in defiance of the state
laws. ft was said that although the state law permitted the
sale of liquors subject to particular restrictions and upon cer,tain enumerated conditions, it did not follow that the law was
not a manifestation of the police powers of the State. The
case, as do all others in which the Wilson Act has been construed, relates to the power to sell, and.not to the power to
respect. I have no criticism to make upon the extract from
that opinion, particularly when taken in connection with the
following extract from Scott v Donald, 165 U. S. 58, also cited
with apparent approval in the Vandercook case: "The question
whether a given state law is a lawful exercise of the police
power is still open, and must remain open, to this court. Such
a law may forbid entirely the manufacture and sale of mtoxicating liquors and be valid. Or, it may provide equal regulations for the inspection and sale of all domestic and imported
liquors and be valid. But the State cannot, under the Congressional legislation referred to, establish a system which,
in effect, discriminates between.interstate and domestic commerce in commodities to make and use which are admitted
to be lawful."
But we are not without authority upon this point. In
Minnesota v Barber, 136 U S. 313, a law of Minnesota, as in
this case, prohibited the sale of fresh meats except after an
inspection, and was sought to be sustained as a law for the
protection of the health of the inhabitants. The act required
the inspection to take place within twenty-four hours before
the animals were slaughtered, and was held to be void .as a
law intended to be applied only to cattle slaughtered outside
the State. While the question was not discussed, it was as-

OCTOBER fTERM, -1904.
BRowN, J., The COmEr JUSTICE, BREWER and DAY, JJ., dissenting. 198 U. S.

sumed that the meats had arrived at their destination within
the State and been delivered to their consignee, and that the inspection, not being a bona fide one, was an unlawful discrimiation against interstate commerce. So in the subsequent case
of Brmmer v Rebman, 138 U -S. 78, a law of Virginia provided
that meat should not be sold from animals slaughtered a
hundred miles or more from the place where offered for sale,
unless previously inspected by local inspectors. The act was
held to be void as in restraint of commerce between the States,
and as imposing a tax upon the products of other States. Both
of these acts, as does the act of Missouri in question, provided
against the sale of uninspected merchandise, and this court
held, quite irrespective of other -considerations, that the act
was void. To the same effect-is Walling v Michigan, 116
U S. 446.
For the reasons already given, I think the act in this case
is void as hn inspection law, and an illegal interference with
interstate commerce, since the assumed inspection preceded
the arrival of the liquors within the State as a constituent part
of its general property
The consequences of this decision seem to.me extremely
serious. If the States may, in the assumed exercise of police
powers, enact inspection laws, Which re not such in fact, and
thereby indirectly impose a revenue tax on liquors, it is difficult to see"any limit to this power of taxation, or why it may
not be applied to any other articles brought within the State,
and the cases of Minnesota v Barber, 136 U S. 313, and Brsmmer v Rebman, 138 U S. 78, be practically overruled. The
Wilson Act does not give the legislature any greater authority
with respect to the inspection of liquors than with respect to
other imported articles, and, as already observed, it leaves the
question of inspection exactly where it found it. If the Wilson
Act recd its natural application, that is, of meeting the
exigency created by our decision in Le?sy v. Hardin, and
enabling the States to enforce their prohibitory liquor laws
upon the arrival of the liquor within .the State, as-e have

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

repeatedly held, the law has a definite and distinct value and
is readily understood.
I am authorized to state.that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE DAY concur m this dissent.

TICE BREWER

LOCHNER v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF ONEIDA COUNTY, STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 292. !Argued February 23, 24, 195.-Decded April 17, 1905.

-The general right to make a contract in relation-to his business is part of
the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, and this includes
the right to purchase and sell labor, except as controlled by the State
mnthe legitimate exercise of its police power.
Liberty of contract relating to labor includes both parties to it; the one has
' as much right to purchase as the other to sell labor.
There is no reasonable ground, on the score of health, for mterfermg.with
the liberty of the person or the right of free"contract, by determining the
hours of labor, in the occupation of a baker. Nor can a law limiting
such hours be justified as a health law to safeguard the public health, or
the health of the individuals folfowing that occupation.
Section 110 of the labor law of the State of New York, providing that no
employds shall be required or permitted to work m bakeries more than
sixty hours in a week, or ten hours a day, is not a legitimate exercise of
the police power of the State, but an unreasonable, unnecessary and
arbitrary interference with the right and liberty of the individual to
contract, in relation to labor, and as such it is in conflict with, and void
under, the Federal Constitution.

TIs is a writ of error to the County Court of Oneida County,
in the State of New York (to which court the record had been
-remitted), to review the judgment Qf the Court of Appeals of
that State, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court, which
itself affirmed the judgment of the County Court, convicting
the defendant of a misdemeanor on an indictment under a
statute of .that State, known, by its short title, as the labor

