CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

BENSON

IENKEL.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 308. Argued February 2, 21,190.-Declded Apil17,1905.
In proceedings before an extradition Commissioner, if the indictment produced as evidence of probable cause in proceedings for removal is framed
in the language of the statute, with ordinary averments of time and place,
and sets out the sulbstance of the offense in language sufficient to apprise
the accused of the nature of the charge against him, it is sufficient to
justify removal, even though it may be open to motion to quash, or in
Arrest of judgment in the court in which it was originally found.
Whether § 5451, Rev. Stat., punishing bribery of officers of the United
States, applies to bribery for acts to be committed in the future, in case
a certain contingency which may never occur does occur, is a matter for
the trial court to determine and not for the extradition-Commismoner.
The District of Cofumbia is a District of the United States to which a person,
under indictment for a crimeor offense against the United States, may
be removed for trial within the meaning, and under the provision, of
§ 1014, Rev. Stat.
Where an offense is begun by the mailing of a letter in one district and
completed by the receipt of a letter in another district, the offender may
be punished in the latter district even though he could also be punished
in the other. Re Palliser,136"U. S. 257.

VOL.

XCV11-

()

OCTOBER TERMI,

1904.

Argument for Appellant.

198 U. S.

THis was an appeal from an order dismissing a writ of
habeas corpus, and remanding appellant to the custody of the
marshal to await the action of the District Judge.
On December 31, 1903, an indictment was found by the
grand jury of the District of Columbia, charging appellant with
a violation of Rev Stat. sec. 5451, m bribing an officer, of the
United States to do an act in violation of his official duty
Appellant was arrested in the Southern District of New York,
upon a warrant issued by a United States Commissioner,
which warrant was issued upon the complaint of a special
agent of the Interior Department, to which a copy of the indictment was annexed. Appellant demanded an examination
before the Conmissioner, in the course of which witnesses were
examined on behalf of the Government, and a certified copy
of the indictment was admitted as evidence. No material
testimony was offered a behalf of the defendant. The Commissioner found there was probable cause, and remanded defendant to the custody of the marshal, to await a warrant for
his removal. Immediately thereafter appellant applied for a
writ of habeas corpus and certiorari. At the close of the
hearing he was remanded to the custody of the marshal. 130
Fed.-Rep. 486.
Mr J C. Campbell and Mr Frank H. Platt for appellant:
The appellant is deprived of his liberty without due process
of law The Commissioner was without jurisdiction to order
his arrest or commitment. The process under color of which
appellant is restrained of his liberty is illegal, unauthorized
and void.
The sufficiency of the charge of a crime is jurisdictional.
It has always been held that the writ of habeas corpus is a
proper instrument to secure the release of a prisoner held under
order or sentence of a tribunal which acted without jurisdiction, and whose process was consequently void. In re Nielson,
131 U S. J76, In re Coy, 127 U S. 731, In reSnow, 120 U. S.
274, In rc Sawyer, 124 U S. 200; Ex parte Ban, 121.1U S. 1;

BENSON v. HENiEL.
198 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371,
Ohw v Thomas, 173 U. S. 276.
It has been the practice in all Federal ]junsdictions, in removal proceedings, to determine whether the indictment sufficiently charges a crime and to discharge the prisoner if ii does
not. Stewart v United States, 119 Fed. Rep. 89; In re Buell,
3 Dillon, 116; In re Terrell, 51 Fed. Rep. 213,ln re Cormng,
51 Fed. Rep. 205, In, re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886, United.States
v Lee, 84 Fed. Rep. 626, In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104, In re
Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614; In re Huntington, 68 Fed. Rep.
881; In re Conners, 111 Fed. Rep. 734, In re Dorg,'4 Fed. Rep.
193.
In In re Palliser, 136 U. S. 257, this court, in a removal
proceeding sinilar to that at bar, examined the indictment
to ascertain whether it charged a crime.
It appears affirmatively, both in the indictment and in the
testimony of the Government's witnesses, that at the time of
the payments to Harlan and Valk, the special agents' report
had not come within the possession, knowledge or reach of
either of them, and there is no allegation or proof that it ever
would. They had no duty concerning it, and it was not shown
that they ever would have any such duty The crnme of
bribery cannot be predicated upon a payment to an officer
to mduce'him to perform an act, as to which he has no duty,
and may never have any duty. In re Yee Gee, 83 Fed. Rep.
145, State v 'Butler, 178 Missouri, 272; State v Joaquin, 62
Maine, 218, State v Howard, 137 Missouri, 289; Newman v
State, 97 Georgia, 367; Moore v State, 69 S. W. Rep. 521,
Ex parte Rwhards, 72 S. W. Rep. 838, Messner v. State, 40
S. W. Rep.. 438; Barefld v State, 14 Alabama, 603.
Neithet Harlan nor Valk was forbidden by any lawful duty
to reveal to Benson the contents of the report, even if they
ever should come into a position to do so.
The indibtment contains no allegation of fact showing that
it would be a violation of duty for Harlan-or Valk to reveal the
contents of the report. Beaver's Case, 194 U. S. 73, 85.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

198 U. S.

(
An allegation that a duty exists or that a certain thing
is a person's .duty is a conclusion of law It is for the court
to determine upon a disclosure of the facts whether or not a
duty exists. Buter v State, 17 Indiana, 450; Buffalo v
Holloway, 7,N.'Y. 498, Atwood v Welton, 57 Connecticut, 515,
Cane v Chapman, 5 Ad. & El. 647, Bailey v. Bussng, 29
Connecticut, 1, Nickerson v Hydraulic Co., A6 Connecticut,.
27; Hayden v. Smithville Mfg. Co., 29 Connecticut, 548, Hewnson v New Haven, 34 Connecticut, 138, 12 Ency. of Pleading& Practice, 1040.
An allegation of a conclusion of law in an mdictmeiit, without a statement of the facts from which such conclusion may
be drawn, is 4ijsufficient. United States v Hess, 124 U. S. 483.
Facts are-to be stated, -not conclusions of law alone. United
States v Kelsey, 42 Fed. Rep. 882, 889; UnitedStates v Kessel,
62 Fed. Rep. 59; United States -v Post, 113 Fed. Rep. 852;
Rieger. v. United States, 107 Fed. Rep. 916, 934, People v
Cooper, 3 N. Y. Cnm. Reps. 117; W St.,L. & P .R. R. Co. v.
People, 12 Ill. App. 448; State v -Paul,69 Maine, 215.
For indictments held insufficieut even where following language of the statute, see United States v Carll, 105 U. S. 611,
United States v Britton, 107 U S. 655, 669; Keck v Unit d
States, 172 U. S. 434, Batchelor v United.States, 156 U. S. 426;
United States v Hess, 124 U. S. 483, Evans v United States,
153 U. .584, United States v Melfi, 118 Fed. Rep, 899;
United States v Wardwell, 49 Fed. Rep. 914.
The phrase "lawful duty" is equivalent to the expressions
"legal duty" or "duty prescribed by law" The prohibition
is limited and restricted to those duties which are prescribed
by law The words "legal" and "lawful" are synonyms.
Standard Dictionary, Webster's Dictionary, Century' Dictionary A legal duty is defined to be that which the law
requires fo be done or forborne. Wharton on Negligence,
§ 24. The 'law takes no cognizance of a breach of a duty
except it be a legal one, which the law imposes, Pennsylvana Co. v. Frana, 13 Ill. App. 98. For instances where of-

BENSON v. HENKT.
198 TU. S.

Argument for Appellant.

fense was held not to be bribery under § 5451, .see Unitet
States v Boyer, 85 Fed. Rep. 425, United States v Gibson, 4
Fed. Rep. 833, Re Palliser,136 U. S. 257, 264.
No law is alleged or exists prescribing that it shall be the
duty of clerks in the General Land-Office to maintain sdcrecy
in reference to reports of specal agents.
There is no allegation.of any rule, regulation or order prescribing that it shall be the-duty of clerks in the Land Office
to maintain secrecy in reference to reports of special agents,
or making such reports secret and confidential, and the Government's evidence shows that no such rule, regulation or order
existed.
If it can be presumed in the absence of -definite allegations
to that effect, and in the face of the evidence to the contrary,
that some rule or regulation had been, prescribed and promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior or the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, prohibiting the publication of
the contents of special agents' reports, nevertheless, such
a rule, regulation or order, even if formally promulgated,
could not in any event lay the basis for a criminal prosecution.
Congress may delegate power to Department officers to make
regulations, which, if made pursuant-to that authority and in
supplement of the act of Congress, will have the force of law
In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526. But Congress cannot delegate
the power to' designate or prescribe what acts or omisions
shall constitute crimes. United States v.Eaton, 144,U S. 677
Departmental regulations are not laws. Morrill v Jones, 106
U. S. 466, 4 Am. & Eng. Ency Law, 642; United States v.
Mard, 116 Fed.. Rep. 650; United States v Manwn, 44 Fed.
Rep. 800.
Section 1014 Rev Stat. does not authorize a removal to the
'District of Columbia. The District of Columbia is not a district and the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is not
a court of the United'States, within the meaning of that section; Appellant being committed for removal to the District

OCTOBER TERMT, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

198 U S.

of Columbia, is, therefore, deprived of his liberty without due
process of law
The District of Columbia did not exist at the time of the
enactment of section 33 of the judiciary act and was not,
therefore, within its contemplation It has never been.constituted or included within one of the Federal judicial districts
and is not, therefore, within the provisions of the present
section.
By act of Februafy 21, 1871, 16 Stat. 4Q6, the District of
Columbia was created a body corporate for' numcipal purposes. By the act of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, it was provided that the District of Columbia shall remain and continue
a municipal corporation. See also Dzstmct of Columba v.
Woodbury, 136 U. S. 450; MetropolitanRailroad Co. v. Dstruct
of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1. See Sen. Rep. No. 658, 43d Cong.
2d Sess., In -re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886; 898, and cases cited;
United States v Burr, Fed. Cas. No. 14,674a; United States v.
Guiteau, 1 Mackey, 563.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is- not a
court of the United States withm the meaning of § 1k1 4 , Rev.
Stat. (or its predecessor, section 33 of the judiciarf act).
McAllister v United States, 141 U S. 174, Wingard v. United
States, 141 U S. 201; The Coquitlam, 163 U S. 346, Thid
v. Utah, 159 U S. 510; United States v McMillan, 165 U. S.
510; Corbus v Leonhardt, 114 Fed. Rep. 12; Jackson v. United
States, 102 Fed. Rep. 473, 479. See, however, Moss v United
States, 23 App. D. C. 475, and cases cited.
The appellant is in any. event entitled under the provisions
of the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution to a trial in the
State of California.
If there was any crime committed it was in California and
not the District of Columbia, as according to the indictment
the letter containing the money alleged to have been sent as
a bribe was mailed in California and the, crimet if any, was
then complete. United States v Worrall, 2 Dall. 384, United
States v. Plympton, 4 Cr. C. C. 309; United States v. Wrm.ht,

BENSON v. HENKEL.
198 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

2 Cr. C. C. 296, United States v Bickford, 4 Blatchf. 337,
United States v Fowkes, 53 Fed. Rep. 13, Landa v State, 26
Tex. Cr. App. 580; Commonwealth v Dorrance,14 Philadelphia,
671, Re Palliser,136 U S. 257 Section 731, Rev Stat., is not
applicable when applied to the District of Columbia. United
States v Guiteau, 1 Mackey, 564, Burton v United States, 196
U S. 283, is not in point.
The Solicitor General and Mr Francts J Heney, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr Arthur
B. Pugh, Special Assistant United States Attorney, was on
the brief, for the United States:
Sufficiency of an indictment and all technical objections
are to be determined by the court in which the indictment
was found, and are not matters. of inquiry in removal proceedings. Habeas.corpuscannot be used as a writ of error to
review judicial action under section 1014, either as to evidence
of probable cause or relative to sufficiency of indictment.
Greene v Henkel, 183 U. S. 249; Beavers v Henkd, 194 U S.
73, Horner v -United States, 143 U S. 570; Ex parte Rwkelt,
61 Fed. Rep. 203.
Section 5451 does not contemplate the violation only of
duties specifically required by law The head of a Department is not compelled to show-a statutory provision for everything he does or prescribes. Duties additional to those imposed by law or published regulations may be prescribed from
time to time in the ordinary course of administration. United
States v Macdansel, 7 Pet. 1, Tyner v United States, 32 Wash.
Law Rep. 258.
The statute punishes bribery of an officer or employ6 of the
United States "to tnduce him to do or omit to do any act in
violation of his lawful duty" Such duty. includes every act
-natural and proper to the particular function or which
may be directed by a superior officer; and, per contra, refraining from inconsistent and forbidden acts is included. It is
not necessary that the violation of duty should itself be a

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Qpunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

substantive offense, nor that the duty be actually violated.
The bribery denounced is accomplished without those elements.
,!The District of Columbia is the proper trial district and the
Supreme Court of that District is "a court of the, United
States" and has cognizance of the offense under sec. 1014.
Some payments were made in Washington and casb was sent
by mail from San Francisco and -rceived by the addressee at
Washington. Section 731, Rev Stat., In re Palliser,136 U. S.
257; §§ 1, 61, 83, New Code D. C., Embry v Palmer,107 U. S.
3, Phillipsv Negley, 117 U S.665, Moss v United States, 32
Wash. Law Rep. 342; §1, ch. 39, p. 337, and §24, ch.. 35,
p. 296, Comp. Stat., D. C., 1894, act of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat.
193, United States v Hashns, 3 Sawy 264.
.In re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886, does not support the contrary
view The real ground for refusing removal there was' that
libel was a local and not a Federal offense and therefore did
,not
fall within § 1014.
1 Absurd
and mischievous results must be avoided. The
appellant's contention would make the entire United States
outside the District of Columbia a refuge for fugitives from
the administration of justice there. If there were no other
reason for rejecting his contention, that would be sufficient.
MR. JusTIce BRowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
But three questions are raised by the arguments and briefs
of counsel in this case:
1. That the indictment charges no crime against the United
.States.
2. That the District of Columbia is not a District of the
United States within the meaning of Rev Stat. sec. 1014,
authorizing the removal of accused persons from one District
to another.
3. That the crime was committed in Californa, and is only
triable there.

BENSON v. HENKEL.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

The indictment is founded upon Rev. Stat. sec. 5451, which
enacts that "Every person who promises, offers, or gives
. to any
any monley or other thing of value
officer .of the United States, or to any person acting for or on
behalf of the United States in any official function, under or
by authority of any Department or office of the Government
with intent to influence his decision or acthereof, .
tion on any question, matter, cause, or proceeding which may
at any.time be pending, or which may by law be brought before him in his official capacity, . . . or with intent
. .to induce him to do or omit to do any act in viblation of his lawful duty, shall be punished as prescribed," etc.
The-first three counts of the indictment charge, insubatance,
that the defendant was engaged with one Hyde, at San-Fxancisco, California, in the business of unlawfully obtaining the
public lands of the United States:.that an investigation by
special agents of the Land Department of Ohe unlawful transactions so charged was ordered by the Secretary of the Intenor; and it became the, duty of such agents to make report$..
to the Secretary, the 'contents of which should not be revealed
to any unofficial person, that at this time a Department clerk
was acting as chief of the special service division of the General
Land Office; whose duty it was to act upon all reports of such
special agents and to preserve and keep for the exclusive use
of- the Land Department all such reports; and that pending
such investigation the defendant unlawfully gave to such
officer, in the District of Columbia, certain sums of mQney,
with the intent to induce hun to do an het in violation 6f his
lawful duty-that is -to say, to reveal to defendant the contents of the reports of such special agents relating to said investigation. These counts are representative of all the others,
one, of which is based upon the payment of money to another
officer of" the'United States, with like intent.
(1) Objection is rpade to the 'indictment upon the ground
that at the time of payments to these officers the special
agents' report had not come into their possession or kntwl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of.the Court.

198 U. S.

edge, and there is no allegation to prove that it ever would,
that they had no duty concerning it; that it was not shown
,that they ever would have such duty; and that a charge of
bribery cannot be based upon payment to an officer to mduce
him to perform an act, as to which he has no duty, and may
never have any duty (2) That neither of these officers was
forbidden by any lawful duty to reveal to Benson the contents
of any report, even if they ever should come into a position to
do so. Upon these grounds it is insisted that the indictment
chalges no offense against the United States under section 5451.
1. The extent to which a Commissioner in extradition may
inquire into the validity of an indictment put in evidence
before hn, as proof of probable cause of guilt, has never been
definitely settled, although we have had frequent occasion
to hold generally that technmcpl objections should not be considered, and that the legal sufficiency of the indictment is only
to be determined by. the court in which it-is. found. Ex parte
Reggel, 114 U. S.642, .650; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, 96;
Homer v United States, No. 2, 143U S. 570, 577, Greene v
Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, 260 Beavers v Henkel, 194 U S. 73,'87
Indeed, it is scarcely seemly for a committing magistrate
to examine closely into. the validity of an indictment found in
a Federal Court of another District, and subject to be passed
upon by such court on demurrer or otherwise. Of course, this.
rule has its limitations. If the indictment were a mere information, or obviously, upon )nspection, set forth no crime
against the United States, or a wholly different crime from
that alleged as .the basis for proceedings, or if such crime be
charged to have been committed m another District from that
to whi6h the extradition is sought, the Commissioner could not
properly consider it as ground for removal. In such cases
resort must be had to other evidence of probable cause.
While the principle laid down in some -of the earlier cases in
this court;, that an indictment upon a statute is ordinarily
sufficient iffiamed-in the language of the statutes has been
somewhatlqualified in later cases, the rule still holds good -that

BENSON v. HENKEL.
198 U. S.

Opmion of the Court.

where the statute contains every element of. the offense, and
an indictment is offered in evidence before the extradition
.Commissioner as proof of probable cause, it is sufficient if
framed in the language of the statute with the ordinary averments of time and place, and with such a description of the
fraud, if that be the basis of the indictment, as will apprise
an intelligent man of the nature of the accusation, notwithstanding that such indictment may be open to motion to quash
or motion in arrest of judgment in the court in which it wa§
originally found. An extradition Commissioner is not presumed to be acquainted with the niceties of criminal pleading.
His functions are practically the same as those of an examining magistrate in an ordinary criminal case, and if the complaint upon which he acts or the indictment offered in support
thereof contains the necessary elements -sf the offense, it is
sufficient, although a more critical examination may show that
the statute does not completely cover the case. Pearce v
Texas, 155 U S. 311, Davs's Case, 122 Massachusetts, 324,
State v O'Connor, 38 Minnesota, 243, In re Voorhees, 32 N. J.
Law, 141, In re G-reenough, 31 Vermont, 279, 288.
Applying these considerations to the present case, it appears
plainly from the indictment that the accused was charged with
the crime of bribery in paying to two officers certain sums of
money to reveal to the petitioner the contents of certain reports, pertaining to an investigation then pending with respect
to certain frauds used in obtaining public lands. The Commissioner was not required to determine for himself whether
the statute applied to reports which had not yet been filed,
and which might never be filed, .or whether the words of the
statute, "which may at any time be pending, or which may
by law be brought before him in his official capacity," apply
to the pendency of the investigation, or to the pendency of an
obligation not to reveal the contents of a paper then in his
possession. This was peculiarly a subject for examination by
the court in which the indictment was found.
Like comment may be made with respect- to the second

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the'Court.

198 U. S.

objection, that neither of these clerks was forbidden .by any
lawful authority to .reveal the contents of such reports, upon
the ground that there was no statute imposing such obligation.
But it is clearly for the court to say whether every duty to be
performed by an official must be designated by statute, or
whether it may not be within the power of the head of a Department to prescribe regulations for the conduct of the business of his office and the custody of its papers, a breach of
which may be treated as an act in violation of the lawful duty
of an official or clerk. United States v Mac8anwel, 7 Pet. 1, 14.
While we have no desire to minimize what we have already
said with regard to the indictment setting out. the substance
of the offense in language sufficient to apprise the accused of
the nature of the charge against him, still it must be borne in
mind'that the indictment is merely offered as proof of the
charge originally contained m the complaint, and not as a
complaint in itself or foundation of the charge, which may be
supported by oral testimony as well as by the- indictment.
When the accused is arraigned in the trial court he may take
advantage of every insufficiency in the indictment, since it is
there the very foundation of the charge, but to hold it to be
the duty of the Comnissioner to determine the validity of
every indictment as a pleading, when offered only as evidence,
is to put in his hands a dangerous posver; which might be subjqct to serious abuse. If, for instance, he were moved by
,personal considerations, popular clamor or msufficient knowledge -of the law to discharge the accused by reason of the
insufficiency of the indictment, it might turn out that the indictment was perfectly valid and that the accused should have
been held. But the evil once done is, or-may be, irremediable,
and the Commissioner, in setting himself up as a court of last
resort to determine the validity of the indictment, is liable to
do a gross injustice.
2: It is further urged in support of this appeal that Rev
Stat. see. 1014 does not authorize a removal to the District
of Columbia, as it is not a District of the United States within

BENSON v. HENKEL.
198 U. S.

I

Opinon of the Court.

the meaning of the law; and the Supreme Court of the District
is not a court of the United States, as the words are used. i
that section.. The pertinent words in the section are that
"For any erime or offense againstthe United States, the offender
may," by certain officers therein designated, "be arrested and
imprisoned, or bailed, as the case may be, for trial before such
court of the United States as by law has cognizance of the
-.
And where any offender or witness is comoffense.
mitted, in any District other than that where the offense is to
of the marshal to exebe tried, itshall' be the duty
wut a warrant for his removal to the District where the trial
is to be had." It is true that this section was taken from the
judiciary act of 1789, and at that time the District of Columbia
was not in existence. But the same remark may be made of
the dozens of different Districts which have been formed since.
this act was passed. The fact that the. District of Columbia
was not created out of territory theretofore unorganized, but
was simply carved out of the District of Maryland, is of no,
more importance than would be the creation of a new District,
rendered necessary by an increase of population or business,
of which almost every Congress produces an example. Even
if this were not so, the reenactment of this section of the
judiciary act in 1873 as see. 1014 of the Revised Statutes,
clearly extended the word "District" to be District bf Columbia, as well as, to all other Districts created since the judiciary
act. United States v Bowen, 100 U S.508, Arthur v Dodge,
101 U. S.34, Cambria Iron Co. v Ashburn, 118 U. S.54, 57
The anomaly in Rev Stat. see. 1014, as applied to this District, consists ieits limitations to offenses "against the United
States," since the courts of the .District of Columbia have a
local gs,well as a Federal jurisdiction, and may punish for
offenses, which, if committed within the limits of any other
District of the United States, would be relegated to the state
courts. Offenders against state laws eseaping from the State
where the crime is committed and found in another State are
surrendered upon the demand of the Governor, by proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

taken under a different statute. Rev Stat. §§ 5278, 5279.
Certain cases are to be found, which hold that persons accused
of crimes committed within the District of Columbia, agamst
its local laws, cannot be removed to this District for trial under
section 1014. If this objection might have been a sound one
under sec. 33 of the judiciary act, since the Revised Statutes
local offenses have also been treated as offenses against the
United States. The question, however, does not arise in this
case, since the indictment charges an offense against the
United States in violation of section 5451, respecting the
bribery of public officers.
It is unnecessary to decide whether the power to remove
offenders found in other Districts to this District is affected
by the act of February 21, 1871, 16 Stat. 419, 426, providing
that "'the Constitution and all laws of the United States,
which are not locally inapplicable, -shall have the same force
and effect within the said District of Columbia as elsewhere
within the United States," since by section 2 of -the act of
June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 193, the provisions of the thirty-third
section of the judiciary act of 1789, from which, Rev Stat.
sec. 1014 is taken, "shall apply to courts created by act of
Congress in the District of Columbia." Criticism is made of
this act in that it only authorizes a removal from the District
of Columbia to other Districts, but that it does not authorize
the removal of persons arrested in some other judicial District
to the District of Columbia. But we think that if there were
any doubt upon the subject still remaining it was removed by
the new code of the District of Columbia, taking effect Janu,ary 1, 1902, wherein it is declared by section 61 that the Supreme Court of the District "shall possess the same powers and
exercise the same jurisdiction as the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States, and shall be deemed a court of the United
States;" and by section one (1) of the same code that "all
general acts of Congress not locally inapplicable in the District .
of Columbia, and all acts of Congress by their terms applicable
to the District of Columbia and to. other places under the

BENSON v. HENKEL.
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

jurisdiction of the United States, in force at the date of the
passage of this act, shall remain in force, except in so far as
the same are inconsistent with, or are replaced by, some provision of this code."
In conclusion of this branch of the case it may be said that
any construction of the law which would preclude the extradition to the District of Columbia of offenders who are arrested
elsewhere would be attended by such abhorrent consequences
that nothing but the clearest language would authorize such
construction. It certainly could never have been intended
that perSons guilty -of offenses against the laws of the United
States should escape punishment simply by crossing the Potomac River, nor upon the other hand that tins District should
become an Alsatia for the refuge of criminals from every part
of the country
3. Appellant makes further objection to a removal to the
District of Columbia upon the ground that the offense; if any,
-was committed in Califorma, and that under the Constitution
he is entitled to a trial in that jurisdiction.
The objection does not appear upon the. face of the indictment, which charges the offense to have been committed
within this District, but from the testimony of one of those
clerks it seems that the money was received by him in certain
letters mailed to him from San Francisco and received in
Washington. Without intimating whether the question. of
jurisdiction can be raised in this way, the case clearly falls
within that of In re Palliser,136 U S. 257, in which it was held
that where an offense is .begun by the mailing of a letter in
one District and completed by the receipt of a letter in another
District, the offender may be punished in the latter District,
although it may be that he could also be punished in the former.
A large number of authorities are collated by Mr. Justice Gray
in the opinion, and the case is treated as covered by sec. 731,
providing that when an offense is begun in one District and
completed in another it*shall be deemed to have been cominitted in either,-and be tried in either, as though it had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
DAY, WHrrn, PECKHAX and MCKENNA, JJ., concurring. 198 U. S.

wholly committed therein. In addition to this, however, it
is conceded that some of the offenses charged in the various
counts were committed in Washington.
There was no error in. the action of the court below, and its
judgment is
-Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, with whom were MR. JusTIcE WHImTE, IR.
JUSTICE PECKHAm and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, concurring.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, MR. JUSand the writer agree in the conclusion just
announced and in the main with the reasoning of the opinion.
But we are unable:to concur in the view that where the ComTICE McKENNA

missioner may be of opinion that the indictment charges no
offense against the laws of the United States, and there is no
other proof of probable cause before him, the order of arrest
may be made,. remitting to the court where the 3ndictment was
found all questions of the sufficiency of the indictment. We
agree that upon the hearing before the Commissioner the indictment is prma facte to be taken as good, and that -no techmcal objection should prevail against it; its ultimate sufficiency
being matter f6r- determination of the court wherein it was
returned against the accused, subject, to review in the appellate
courts. Greene v Henkel, 183. U. S. 249. But the order of
removal involves.judicial rather than mere ministerial action,
and must be issued by the judge of the Districtwhenthe case
made warrants it. Sec. 1014, Rev Stat., Beavers v, Henkel,
194 U. S. 73, 83. And whether found in the indictment, or as
the result of other testimony, the order to remove the accused
can only be issued upon a showing of probable cause. Greene
v Henkel, 183 U.. S. supra.
'In this case the argument chiefly relied upon against the
right to issue the order of arrest; and subsequently of removal,
rested ul65i the alleged insufficiency of the indictment to
charge any offense within the terms of the statute, because the

PABST BREWING CO. v. CRENSHAW.
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

reports which it was alleged the accused had been bribed to
reveal were not then on file and might never be filed in the
Department. It is said that the Commissioner was not required to determine for himself whether the statute applied
to such reports, but such objections must be remitted for determination to the court in which the.milctment was found.
In other words, the order of arrest and commitment may be
made, although the Commissioner be of opinion that the indictment, in a particular vital to the prosecution of the offense,
aiid which cannot be supplied by other proof, is fatally defective, and the accused is charged with no offense against the
laws of the Umted Stdtes. In our opinion, the Commissioner,
when the case is thus presented, must pass upon the sufficiency
of the indictment. It is his duty to decide whether an offense
is charged, with a view to making or withholding the order of
arrest, which when made,, becomes the basis of .an order of
removal of a citizen to the place of trial, which may be many
miles distant from his home. Such order is proper only in
cases wherein probable cause -has been shown -to believe the
accused guilty of an offense cognizable by the laws of the
United States in the proceeding pending against him, and for
which he is to answer at the place of indictment.

PABST BREWING COMPANY v. CRENSHAW
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 85. Argued December 8, 1904.-Decided April 17,1905.

rhe malt liquor inspection law of Misioun provides for the inspection of
malt liquors manufactured within the State and also for those manufactured without and held for sale and consumption within the State.
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the law deciding among other
things that the act does not affect'liquors shlpped into the State and
held there for reshipment without the State, that it does not discrimnate
in favor bf beer manufactured in the State, and that it is not a revenue,
but an inspection law. The constitutionality of the law was attacked
VOL. COCVIII-2

