CLARK v. NASH.
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

by Indiana. Taxation of the coal m this case deprived the
owner of its property without due process of law, as is held in
the above case, and the owner is entitled to the protection of
the Fourteenth Amendment, which prevents the taking of its
property in that way
The judgment of the -Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
Reversed.

The CHmF JUSTICE dissented.

CLARK

t.

NASH.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 218. Argued April 19,20, 1905.-Decided May 15, 1905.
Whether the statute of a State permitting condemnation by an individual
for the purpose of obtaining water for his land or for mining, is or is not
a condemnation for public use and, therefore, a valid enactment under
the Constitution, depends upon considerations relating to the situation
of the State and its possibilities for agricultural and mining industries.
The rights of a riparian owner in and to the use of water flowing by his
land, are not the same in the arid and mountainous western States as
they are. m the eastern States..
This court recognizes the difference of climate and soil, which render necessary different laws in different sections of the country, and what is a
public use largely depends upon the facts surrounding the subject, and
with which the people and the courts of the State must be more familiar
than a stranger to the soil.
While private property may not in all cases be taken to promote public
interest and tend to develop the natural resources of the State, m view
of the peculiar conditions existing in the State of Utah, and as the facts
appear in this record, the statute of that State permitting individuals
to enlarge the ditch of another and thereby obtain water for his own
land, is within the legislative power of the State, and does not in any
way violate the Federal Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, INA0.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

Tins action was brought by the defendant in error Nash,
to condemn a right of way, so called, by enlarging a ditch for
the conveying of water across the land of plamtiffp in error,
for the purpose of bringing water from Fort Canyon Creek, in
the county and State of Utah, which is a stream of water flowing from the mountains near to the land of the defendant in
errpr, and thus to irrigate his land.
The plaintiffs in error demurred to the complaint upon the
ground that the same did not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against them. The demurrer was overruled,
and the defendants then waived all time in which to answer
-the complaint and elected to stand on the demurrer. Thereafter there was a default entered against the defendants, and
each of them, 'for failing to answer, and the case was under.
the practice in Utah then tried and evidence heard on the
complaint of the plaintiff, showing the material facts as stated
in thE complaint. The trial court found the facts as follows:
"Tiat the plaintiff during all the times mentioned in said
complaint, to wit, from the first day of January, 1902, down
to the present time inclusive, was, has been and now is the
owner of, in possession of and entitled to the possession of the
south half of the northwest quarter of section 24, in township 4 south of range 1, east of Salt Lake meridian, in Utah
County, State of Utah.
"That Fort Canyon Creek is a natural stream of water flowing from the mountains on the north of6-plaintiff's said land,
in a southerly direction to and near to paintifi's said land.
"That said land of plaintiff above described is and land
and will not produce without artificial irrigation, but that
with artificial irrigation the same will produce abundantly
of gram, vegetables, fruits and hay
"That the defendants own land lying north of. and adjacent
to plaintiff's said land, and said defendants have constructed
and-are maintaining and jointly own a water ditch which diverts a portion of the said waters of the said Fort Canyon
Creek 6n the west side of said creek (being the side on which

CLARK v. NASH.
198 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the.plaintiff's said land is-situated) at a point about one mile
north of plaintiff's said land in section 13 of said township,
down to a *pointwithin a hundred feet of plaintiff's said land,
which said ditch is begun on the defendantg' land and runs
in a southerly direction over said defendants' land and on to
and over the lands of the said defendants to said point about
a hundied feet of plaintiff's said land.
"The plaintiff is the owner of and entitled to the use of
sufficient of the remainder of the flow of the waters of the said
Fort Canyon Creek to irrigate his said land, and that the irngation of said land by the waters of said creek and the uses of
the said waters in the irrigation of the said lands of the defendant is under the laws of this State declared to be, and the same
is a public use.
"That the said waters of said Fort Canyon Creek cannot
be brought upon the said plaintiff's said land by any other
route except by and through the ditch of the defendants,
owing to the canyon.through which said ditch runs being such
as to only be possible to build one ditch.
"That plaintiff has no other way of irrigating his said land
except by the use of the waters of said Fort Canyon Creek
and that unless plaintiff is allowed to enlarge the ditch of the
defendants and have a right of way through said ditch for the
flow of the waters of said Fort Canyon Creek, down to the
plaintiff's said land, that said land of plaintiff will be valueless and the waters of said Fort Canyon Creek will not be
available for any useful purpose.
"That said ditch of defendants is a small ditch about
18 inches wide and about 12 inches deep, that if the plaintiff
is permitted to widen said ditch one foot more it will be sufficient in dimensions to carry plaintiff's said water to which
he is entitled to his said land and the same can and will be
put to a beneficl4 and public use, in the irrigation of the soil
on plaintiff's said land hereinbefore described.
"That on the sixteenth day of January, 1902, and while the
said defendants were not in the actual use of their said ditch,

OCTOBER ThRm, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U. S.

and while the widening of said ditch at said time would not
in any manner interfere with said defendants, other than the
act of widening of same, the plaintiff requested of the said
defendants the right to so widen the said ditch of the said
defendants so to make it one foot wider, for the purpose of
using the same to carry the water of the plaintiff onto his
,said land from said creek, and it said time and place offered
to pay to said defendants all damages which the -said defendants might suffer by reason of said enlargement, and offered
to pay his propqrtion of the maintenance of keeping the same
-inrepair, and asked of said defendants a right to continue the
use of said ditch m common with said defendants, and to use
the ,same so as not to interfere with the use of said ditch- by
-said defendants, and it further appearing to the court that
the said.*laintiff is now and has ever since been willing to pay
-said damage and all damage incident thereto-and to pay
his just prQportion of -the, cost of maintaining said ditch.
That the 'said defendants then and there and'ever since have
refused to permit plaintiff to enlarge said. ditci .or to use the
same, oi in any manner to interfere with the same.
""And it further appearing to the court that the said defendants would suffer damages by reason of the enlarging of
said ditch one foot in .width, m the sum of 840.00, and no
more. And that the sald,plamtiff has deposited wi the
clerk of this court to be paid to the orderof the said defendants the sum of $40.00, m full payment of such damages.
That the land of the defendants not sought to be condemned
by plaintiff would suffer no injury or damage.
"Ana it further appearing from said evidence that said
ditch of the defendants can be widened by the plaintiff one,
foot more without injury to defendants or to said ditch, and
that said Fwidening-of said ditch and the use thereof by the
plaintiff will not m any manner interfere with the free and
full use thereof by the defendants for the carrying of all waters
of the said 'defendants."
Upon these facts the court found the following-

CLARK v. NAESH.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

" Conluzons of Law.
"The court finds and decides that the plaintiff is entitled
to a decree of this court condemning a right of way through
defendants' said ditch, to the extent of widening said ditch
one foot more than its present width and to a depth of said
ditch as now constructed through the entire length thereof
down to plaintiff's said land, for the purpose of carrying his
said waters of said Fort Canyon Creek to the land of the plaintiff for the purpose of irrigation, and is entitled to an easement
therein to the extent of the enlarging of said ditch and for the.
purposes aforesaid, and to have a perpetual right of way to
flow waters therein to the extent of the said enlargement.
"That the defendants are entitled to have and recover from
the said plaintiff the sum of $40.00 damages for injury sustained by reason of the enlargement and improvement above
stated and such right of way and easement.
"That the plaintiff is required to contribute to the cost and
expense of maintaining and keeping the said ditch in repair
in an amount and proportion bearing the same relation to
_the whole, amount of cost and expense as the waters he flows
therein bears to the whole amount flowed therein both by
the plaintiff and defendants.
"That the plaintiff recover no costs herein and judgment
is hereby ordered to be entered accordingly."
Judgment having been entered upon these findings, the
defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, where,
after argument, the judgment was affirmed. 27 Utah,. 158.
Mr. J W N Whitecoton for plaintiffs in error"
The taking not being a public use, plaintiffs in error are deprived of their property without due process of law inviolation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. As to what is a private and.
not a public .use see Taylor v Porter, 4 Hill, 140; Re Eureka
Basin Co., 96 N. Y 42, 48, Re Tuthill, 163 N. Y 133, and see
authorities under this case in 49 L. R. A. 781; Nesbitt v.
Trumbo, 39 Illinois, 110; Sholl v. Codl Co., 118 Illinois, 427.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

198 U. S.

This taking may greatly injure the present owner of the
aitch. This is not public irrigation. Lorenz v Jacobs, 63
California, 73, L?ndsay Irngation Co. v Mehrtens, .97 California, 680. The term "public use" is an expression of indefinite significance and its application to any particular case
is to be determined by evidence. Fallsbuy Co. v Alexander,
61 L. R. A. 129; Gayland v Sanitary Dzstrct, 204 Illinois,
576, Lumber Co. v. Morrs, 63 L. R. A. 820; Railway Co. v.
Nebraska, 164 U $. 403, 416.
Water rights are not made public use by the constitution
of Utah. Article I, § 2, and Art. 17, const. Utah, § 3588,
Rev Stat. Utah, 1898, subsec. 5, 6, 10; also §§ 1277, 1-278;
see also "Public" and "Private" as defined in Anderson's,
Standard and Webster's Dictionaries.
Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public
use without just compensation. Constitution of Utah, Art. I,

§ 22.
This constitutional provision means that private property
cannot betaken against the will of the owner for a private use
under. any circumstances. So that the only question to be
determined is, Is the use for which this condemnation is allowed
a public use within the meaning .of the Fourteenth Amendment? See Bankhead v 'Brown, 25 Iowa, 540; Matter of Albany
Street, 11 Wend. 151, Railroad Co. v Greeley, 17 N. H. 47, 55,
Bloodgood v M. & H. R. Ry. Co., 18 Wend. 9; Beckman v
Railway Co., 3 Paige, 73, Witham v Osborn, 4 Oregon, 318,
Helburn's case, 3 Bland (Md.), 95, Hy v Swan's Lessee, 5
Maryland, 237, 244, Dunn v Charleston,Harper (S. Car)., 189;
Osborn v Hart, 24 Wisconsin, 89; Tyler v Beacher, 44 Vermont, 648, D.ckey. v Tennsson, 27 Missouri, 373, Clark v.
White, 2 Swan, 540; Sadley v Tongham, 34 Alabama, 311;
Valley City Salt Co. v Brown,.7 WVa. 191, New Central Coal
Co. v Coal & Iron Co., 37 Maryland, 537, Varner v Marin,
21 W Va. 534, Railroad Co. v McComb, 60 Maine, 290; McChandless' Appeal, 70 Pa. St. 210; Embury v Connor, 3 N. Y.
511, Scudder v Trenton Delaware Falls Co., 1 N. J. Eq. 694,

CLARK v. NASH.
198 U. S.

Opuman of the Court.

726, Robnson v Swope, 12 Bush (Ky.), 21, 27, Harding v.
Funk, 8 Kansas, 315, 323, Jenal v Green Island Dransng Co.,
12 Nebraska, 163, Waddell's Appeal, 84 Pa. St. 90; Brown v.
Beatty, 34 Mississippi, 227, 240; Mining Co. v Parket, 59
Georgia, 419; McQuilton v Hallon, 42 Ohio St. 202.
-No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKEUM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error contend that tne proposed use of the
enlarged ditch across their land for the purpose of conveying
water to the land of the defendant in error alone is not a public
use, and that, therefore, the defendant in error has no constitutional or other right to condemn the land, or any portion
of it, belonging to the plaintiffs in error, for that purpose.
They argue that, although the use of water in the State of
Utah for the purpose of mining or irrigation or -manufacturing
may be a public use where the right to use it is common to
the public, yet that no individual has the right to condemn
land for the purpose of conveying water in ditches across his
neighbor's land, for the purpose of irrigating his own land
alone, even where there is, as in this case, a state statute permitting it.
In some States, probably in most of them, the proposition
contended for by the plaintiffs in error would be sound. But
whether a statute of a State permitting condemnation by an
individual for the purpose of obtaining water for his land or
for mining should be held to be a condemnation for a public
use, and, therefore, a valid enactment, may depend upon a
number of considerations relating to the situation of the
State and its possibilities for land cultivation, or the successful prosecution of its mining or other industries. Where the
use is asserted to be public, and the right of the individual to
condemn land for the purpose of exercising such use is founded

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
.Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

upon or is .the result of some peculiar condition of the soil or
climate, or other peculiarity of the State, where the right of
condemnation is asserted under a state statute, we are always,.
where it can fairly be done, strongly inclined to hold with the
state courts, when they uphold a state statute providing for
such condemnation. The validity of such statutes may seinetimes depend upon many different facts, the existence of which
would make a public use, even by an individual, where, in the
absence of such facts, the use would clearly be private. Those
facts must be general, notorious and acknowledged in the
State, and the state courts may be assumed to be exceptionally familiar with them. They are not the subject of judicial
investigation as to thenr existence, but the local courts know
and appreciate them. They understand the situation which
led to the demand-for the enactment of the statute, and they
also appreciate the results upon the growth and prosperity
of the State, which in all probability would flow from a denial
of its validity. These are matters which might properly be
held to have a material bearing upon the question whether the
individual use proposed might not m fact be a public one.
It is not alone the fact that the land is arid and that it will
bear crops'if irrigated, or that the water is necessary for the
purpose of working a mine, that is material, other facts
might exist which are also material, such, as the particular
manner in which the irrigation is carried on or proposed,
or how the mining is to be done in a particular place where
water is needed for that purpose. The general situation and
amount of the arid land, or of the mines themselves, might
also be material, and what proportion of the water each
owner should be entitled to, also the extent of the population living in the surrounding country, and whether each
owner of land or mines could be, in fact, furnished with the
necessary water in any other way than by the condemnation
in his own behalf, and not by a company, for his use and
that of others.
These, and many other facts not necessary to be set forth

CLARK
198 U. S.

. NASH.

Opinion of the Court.

in detail, but which can easily be imagined, might reasonably
be regarded as material upon the question of public use, and
whbther the use by an individual could be so regarded. With
all of these the local courts must be presumed to be more or
less familiar. This court has stated that what is a public
use may frequently and largely depend upon the facts surrounding the subject, and we have said that the people of a
State, as also its courts, must in the nature of things be more
familiar with such facts and with the necessity and occasion
for the irrigation of the lands, than can any one be who is a
stranger to the soil of the State, and that such knowledge and
familiarity must have their due weight with the state courts.
Fallbrook Imqation Dzstrct v Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 159.
It is true that in the Fallbrooc case the question was whether

the use of the water was a public use when a corporation sought
to take land by condemnation under a state statute, for the
purpose of making reservoirs and digging ditches to supply
land owners with the water the company proposed to obtain
and save for such purpose. This court held that such use was
public. The case did not directly involve the right of a single
individual to condemn land under a statute providing for
that condemnation.
We are, however, as we have said, disposed to agree with
the Utah court with regard to the validity of the state statute,
which provides, under the circumstances stated in the act for
the condemnation of the land of one individual for the purpose
of allowing another individual to obtain water from a stream
in which he has an interest, to irrigate his land, which otherwise would remain absolutely valueless.
But we do not desire to be understood by this. decision/ as
approving of the broad proposition that private property may
be taken in all cases where the taking may promote the public
interest and- tend to develop the natural resources of the State.
We simply say that in this particular case, and upon the facts
stated in the findings of the court, and having reference to the
conditions already stated, we are of opinion that-.tle use is a
VOL.

cxovii-2A

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

public one, although the taking of the right of way is for the
purpose simply of thereby obtaining the water for an mdividual, where it is absolutely necessary to enable him to make
any use whatever of his land, and which will be valuable and
fertile only if water can be obtained. Other land owners adjoining the defendant in error, if any there are, might share
in the use of the water by themselves taking the same proceedings to obtain it, and we do not think it necessary, in
order to hold the use to be a public one, that all should join
in the same proceeding or that a company should be formed
to obtain the water which the individual land owner might
then obtain his portion of from the company by paying the
agreed price, or the price fixed by law
The rights of a riparian owner in and to the use of the water
flowing by his land are not the same in the arid and mountainous States of the West that they are in the States of the
East. These rights have been altered by many of the Western
States, by their constitutions and laws, because of the totally
different circumstances in which their inhabitants are placed,
from those that exist in the States of the East, and such alterations have been made for the very purpose of thereby contributing to the growth and prosperity of those States arising from
mining and the cultivation of an otherwise valueless soil, by
means of irrigation. This court must recognize the difference
of climate and soil, which render necessary these different laws
in the States so situated.
We are of opinion, having reference to the above peculiarities
which exist in. the State of Utah, that the statute permitting
the defendant in error, upon the facts appearing in this record,
to enlarge the ditch and obtain water for his own land, was
within the legislative power of the State, and the judgment
of the state court affirming the validity of the statute is therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR. JUsTIcE BREwER dissented.

