CIMIOTTI UNHAIRING CO. v. AA.
198 U. S.

FUR REF CO, 399

Statement of the Case.

This kind of argument seems to assume that the tax is a
tax on the right to use the streets and not a tax on the business. But a sufficient answer is that none of the expressions
quoted import any exemption from taxation whatever, if it

was within the power of the city to grant it. See New Orleans
City & Lake Railroad v- New Orleans, 143 U S. 192.

We

are of opinion that the plaintiff's case fails on every ground.
Decree affirmed.

CIMIOTTI UNHAItING COMPANY v. AMERICAN FUR
REFINING COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 192. Argued March 17, 1905.-Decided May 15, 1905.

A greater degree of liberality and a wider range of equivalents are permitted where the patent is of a pioneer character than when the invention is simplyan inprovement,,although the last and successfulstep, in the
art theretofore partially developed by other inventors in the same field.
The patent involved m this case for the unhainng of seal and other skins,
while entitled to protection as a valuable invention, cannot be said to be
a pioneer patent.
In making his claim the inventor is at liberty to choose his own form of
expression and, while the courts may construe the same in view of the
specifications and the state of the art, it may not add to or detract
from the claim.
As the inventor is required to enumerate the elements of lhs claim no one
is the infringer of a combination claim unless he uses all the elements
thereof.
Where the patent does not embody a primary invention but only an imo
provement on the prior art the charge of infringement is not sustained
if defendant's machines can be differentiated.

THis action was begun in the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of New Jersey for the purpose of enjoin-

ing .the-alleged infringement of certain letters patent of the
United States, issued to John W Sutton, and bearing date of
May 22, 1888, number 383,258, for a certain new and useful
invention. or improvement upon machines for plucking furs.

OCTOBER TERM-H, 1904.
Opnon of the Court.

198.U. S.

In the Circuit Court a decree was rendered granting an injunction, 120 Fed. Rep. .672; upon appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit this judgment was reversed,
and the cause was remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to dismiss the bill. 123 Fed. Rep. 869.
The case was brought here upon writ of certiorari to review
the judgment of the Circuit Court of.Appeals.
Mr Lores C. Raegener for petitioners.
lfr Henry Sclhreiter for respondents.
'MR. JUSTICE -DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The patent in controversy has been frequently sustained
m the Federal courts (95 Fed. Rep. 474, 108 Fed: Rep. 82,
115 Fed. Rep. 498 and 507), and its validity is not contested
here. The question presented to us is one -of infringement.
The invention which is the subject matter of the controversy
relates to machinery for unhairing pelts, and. particularly and
perhaps, exclusively, so far as practical use is concerned, sealskins or "coney" skins. The latter are skins of French or
Belgian rabbits, which, under the name of "electric" sealskins,
have been put upon the market, and have been largely sold
and used as substitutes for the genuine sealskins. It is said
that only an expert can tell the difference between the finished
salskin.
coney -and the genuine
It is disclosed m the testimony that sealskins, before they
are fit for the market, are required to be submitted to a process
by which the long hairs, sometimes called "water hairs," are
separated from the fur ahd clipped or plucked from the pelt.
Up to about the year of 189f the removal of such hairs was
effected by hand, the pelt being stretched over .the finger; by
blowing down on the fur a part was made, and the hairs were
clipped out by means of scissorb. This was necessarily a slow

CIMIOTTI UNHAIRING CO. v. ATI. FUR REF CO. 401
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and laborious process. An improvement was made in this art
by the Cinnottis, predecessors-of the petitioner, by the introduction of an air blast for the purpose of separating the fur, which
invention was the subject of a patent to them, number 240,007,
under date of April 12, 1881. In 1888 the Sutton patent in
suit was issued, in which was introduced a rotating brush
apparatus fdr the purpose of separating the fur, as will be
hereinafter more particularly shown. Of his invention, Sutton
said in the specifications:
"This invention relates -to an improved machine for pluckmg sealskins and other furs, so as to remove the stiff waterhair therefrom *ithout injurimg the soft hair or wool of the
same.
"The machine is more especially designed with a view to
overcome.some of the defects and'insufliciencies of the pluckingmachines heretofore in use, and produce the plucking of the
skins at the lower parts of the neck and snoulders, where the
hairs point outwardly anct backwardly and are the most difficult to pluck, as they lie down close to the skin when the same
is drawn over the stretcher-bar.
"My invention is-further designed -to dispense with a blastfan or other air-forcing-devices, and produce the removing of
the wathr-hairs entirely by mechanitl -meaps, which are
operated by power, so that a quick and-uni-Ori plucking of
the skin takes place.
"The invention consists of a machine for plucking seal arid
other skins, which comprises a fixed stretcher-bar-nmeams fo'r
stretching and intermittently feeding the skin --over-said
stretcher-bar, a fixed card-,above the stretcher-bar near The
edge of the same, a rotary separating-brush that is intermnittently moved up in front of the stretcher-bar, an oscillating
guard b'elow the stretcher-bar, a rotary cutting-knife and a
vertically-reciprocating cutting-knife working in conjunction
with the rotary knife for cutting off the stiff projecting hairs,
said rotary cutting-knife being provided withia card supported
back of the -knife, all of which. parts are -operated froih a conVOL. cxcviii-6

402

,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U..S.

mon driving-shaft, so as to produce for each rotation of the
same the cutting off or plucking of the hairs projecting from
that part of the skin in front of the stretcher-bar."
The invention was illustrated by certain drawings, some of
which are here given, which, together with the description,
illustrate the operation of the machine, so far as necessary for
the purposes of this case.

-Z.

CIMIOTTI UNH.ARINM
193 U. S.

G CO. -r All. FUR REF CO. 403

Opimon of the Court.

Referring to the drawings, -the inventor says (in part)
"A represents the supporting-frame of my -unproved machime for plucking seal and other skins. On the frame A is.
supported a fixed transverse stretcher-bar, B, which is tapered
to a narrow edge, over which the skin to be plucked is stretched.
1
The skin is applied by tapes to the rollers B 1 B , which are
intermittently actuated by gear-wheels operated by a pawland-ratchet-wheel mechanism from the driving-shaft S, as
customary in plucking machines of this class. By the gearwheels and the pawl-and-ratchet mechanism the skin is fed
intermittently for a small portion of its length over the front
edge of the stretcher-bar, it being unwo-und from the upper
and wound up on the lower feed-rolldr. Below the edge of
the stretcher-bar is arranged a vertically-reciprocating knife C,
which moves in slots or ways of fixed guide-plates C1, and
which is operated by fulcrumed levers C2, the rear ends of
which are engaged.by cams C3 on a cam-shaft, S1,that is supported above the driving-shaft S in suitable bearings of the
frame A.
"In front of and at some distance from the stretcher-bar B
is supported a shaft, D1 , in bearings of the frame A, said -shaft
being provided -ith radial arms d d,. to which the rotary
knife D is attached, which, in conjunction - with the verticallyreciprocating knife C, serves to cut off the water-hairs projecting from that part of the skin in fronhtof the edge of the
,stretcher-bar B. To the arms of the rotary knife D, and at
some distance back of the latter, is applied a carding-.brush, D",
which acts on that part of the skin that is fed forward oyer
the edge of the stretcher-bar immediately after the hairs of
the next preceding section of the skin have been cut off. The
shaft D1 of the cutting-knife D is rotated from the cam-shaft S1,
longitudinal shaft, S', and two
by means of an intermediate
4
3
sets of miter-wheels, D , D
"Immediately above the stretcher-bar B is arranged a stationary card, E, which is attached to the ends of the stretcherbar B by means of thumb-screws. (Not-shown in drawings.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.

Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

The points of the teeth of the card E are close to but do not
touch the surface of the skin, so that the hair and fur are both
straightened as the skin is fed forward. The teeth of the
card E hold down the fine fur, but permit the stiff hairs to
stand up between the teeth, owing to the slow forward movement of the. skin, which gives the hairs sufficient time to so
adjust themselves.
"Below the stretcher-bar B is arranged a rotary separatingbrush, F, which is supported in oscillating arms F1, that are
guided by pins f, in arc-shaped slots 11 of fixed guide-plates f2,
as shown clearly in Figs. 1, 2, and 3, the oscillating arms F1
bemg.pivoted to horizontally-reciprocating connecting-rods F 2,
which are provided with yokes 13, having anti-friction rollers
at their Tear ends and acted upon by cams F3 on the camshaft SI, the cams being so shaped and timed that the forward
and upward.motion of the brush F takes place at the proper
time.
"The brush F receives rotary motion from two belts, 14,
which pass over pulleys /3 on the shaft S1 and the brush shaft,
and which are kept taut by weighted idlers /8, as shown
clearly in Fig. 1.
"The brush F is made of soft bristles and is rotated at a
speed of one hundred and fifty revolutions per minute. The
soft bristles allow the stiff hairs to stand, while the quick
motion of the brush bends the soft hair in downward direction
and brushes it below the stretcher-bar, so that it can be taken
up and held in position by the soft-rubber wipers g of an
oscillating guard-bar, G, which moves in arc-shaped slots gt
-of the guide-plates C I"
The operation of the mach ne is thus described.
"The skin is placed in the machine by being attached to
the feed-rollers and drawn tightly over the edge of the stretcherbar, so as to lie close to the upper and lower surface of the
-same. The skin is put in in such a manner that the head end
is foremost. The stiff hairs in sealskins point toward the tail,
except at the lower part of .the neck. and shoulders. These

CIMIOTTI UNIAIRING 'CO.v. AM. FUR REF CO. 405
198 U. :

Opinon of the Court.

parts are at the sides of the head end of the skin, as the skin
is split open at the under side. At these parts of the skin the
hairs point outwardly and backwardly and are the most
troublesome to cut or pluck, as they lie down close to the skm
when it is drawn over the stretcher-bar. A sharp and quick
rub over these parts of the skin from the edge toward the
center of the skin is therefore necessary, so as to straighten
up the hairs and present them to the action of the cuttingknives. When the skin is m place, the stationary card E is
drawn backward a few times over that part of the skin that
is upon the stretcher-bar B, so as to card back the fur and
hair and produce thereby a parting of the fur at that part of
the skin then covering the edge of the stretcher-bar. Onehalf of the fur upon that section of the skin will by the parting
be kept above and the other half below the edge of the stretcherbar. This permits the hair upon that section of the skin in
front of the edge of the stretcher-bar to rise through the fur
and keep its place with less trouble than when more fur is acted
upon. When the fur. and hair have been carded back by- the
card E, the same is fastened to the stretcher-bar by thumbscrews. The card is set back from the edge of the stretcherbar to a distance a little more than one-half of the length of
the fur for the purpose of holding the fur and preventing it
from moving forward until the forward motion of the skin
takes place. The card at the back of the rotary knife passes
then over the skin in front of the edge of the stretcher-bar and
draws out all the fur and hair on-that section, so that the fur
and hairs so drawn out assume their natural positions-that is,
the positions ihich they would have if the skin were drawn
over the edge of the stretcher-bar without anything for holding back the fur and hair. As, soon as the card at the back
of the rotary knife has passed over the section of the skin in
front of the stretcher-bar the rubbers are quickly moved over
the same toward the center, whereby the hairs that lie don
sidewise are raised and pointed outwardly, causmg them to
stand upright. The rotary separating-brush is then quickly

OCTOBER TER3M,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S.

moved upward and forward and revolved in front of the skin
at the edge of the stretcher-bar, so as to separate the fur from
the hairs, brushing down the former, and-leaving the stiff hair
standing out. The rotary separating-brush is then quickly
moved backward and downward, so as to carry with it the
separated fur, which'is then held in position by the oscillating
guard that-follows, the brush and carries the fur still' farther
back and holds it in position, while the vertical knife is raised
and shears off, in conjunction with the rotary knife, the forward-projecting hairs, as shown in Fig. 1. The separatingbrush, after it has accomplished its work, is lowered sufficiently
so as not to touch the skin at all, except when it is in front of
the working-edge of the stretcher-bar. The next sectibn of
the skin is now moved by the feed-rollers over the edge of the
stretcher-bar; and the same operation of the parts produced
by the next rotation of the driving-shaft, and so on until the
skin is finished."
The great merit of this invention is said to consist in the
use of the brush, applied- by means of the mechanism shown,
so as to brush down the fur, and permit the long hairs, 'which
should be removed, and which rise at the edge of the stretcherbar, when the pelt is drawn over it to be acted upon by the
knives, when the, fur is brushed away, so as not to be injured.
In determinig the construction to be given to the--clain ni
suit, which is alleged. to be infringed, it is necessary to have
in mind the nature of this patent, its character as a pioneer
invention or otherwise, and the state of the art at the time
when the invention was made.. It is well settled that a
greater degree of liberality and a wider range of equivalents
are permitted where the patent is of a pioneer chaiacter than
when the invention is simply an improvement, may be the
last and successful step, in the art theretofore partially developed by other inventors in the same field. Upon this subject it was said. by this court, lVestnghouse v Boyden Power
Brake -Co., 170 U- S. 537, quoted with approval in Siftger Co.
v Cramer, 192 U S. .265

CIMIOTTI UNHAIRLNG CO. v. AM. FUR REF CO. 407
198 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

"To what liberality of donstruction these clans are entitled
depends to a certain extent upon the character of the invention,
and whether it is what is termed in ordinary parlance a 'pioneer.' This word, although used somewhat loosely, is commonly understood to denote a patent covering a function never
before performed, a wholly novel device, or one of such novelty
and importance as to mark a distinct step m the progress of
the art, as distinguished from a mere improvement or perfection of what had gone before. Most conspicuos examples of
such patents are: The one to Howe of the sewing machine;
to Morse of the electric telegraph, and to Bell of the telephone.
The record m this case would indicate that the same honorable
appellation nlight 'safely be bestowed upon the original airbrake of Westinghouse, and perhaps also upon his automatic
brake. In view of the fact that the invention in this case
was never put into successful operatibn, and *as to a limited
extent anticipatda by the ,Boyden latent of 1883, it is perhaps
an unwarrantable extension of -the term to speak of it as a
'pioneer,' although the principle involved subsequently and
through improvements upon this mventin became one of
great value to the public."
While it may be admitted that the Sutton patent was a
distinct step in the art, and is entitled to protection as a valuable invention, nevertheless it cannot'be said to be a pioneer
patent in any just sense. In the English Lake patent of 1881.
of which more will be said hereafter, there is doubtless a sug.
gestion of the use of brushes for the purpose of separating:the,
fur from- the long hair to be removed. And so in the Covert
patent of 1884, which was the subject of consideration by
Judge Wheeler in the case of Cinnotti UnhlirngCo. v Mischke,
98 Fed. Rep. 297 In that case it was said that Covert's patent had been mechanically but not commercially stccessful,
and that in lieu of a rotating separating brush, shown in Sutton's patent, Covert used a revolving cloth-covered cylinder,
and it was held that this was. not equivalent to the separating'
brush, end Sutton's invention was an advance upon anything

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

198 U. S.

theretofore shown. Of the Covert patent Judge Cox, .m the
course of an able opinion sustaining the Sutton patent, Cimwtti
Unbairing Co. v Amencan Machine Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 498,
502, said:
"Covert came nearer than any one-else to a successful machine. He had but one more step to take and here he became
bewildered and went astray. He missed the apparently simple arrangement of the rotary brush which alone was necessary It will not do to say that the prior art showed such
a brush. Every element of the combination in controversy
was unquestionably old, but there was nothing in the prior art
to suggest a rotary brush working in the environment shown
in the Sutton patent. There was nowhere a rotary brush
making a 'part' on a keen-edged stretcher-bar and brushing
the fur down and out of the reach of the cutting-knives during
the moment necessary for the removal of the stiff hairs. It
is the presence of this element in the combination which produces a new result and entitles its originator to protection."
In the same case, Judge Wallace (p. 505), in his concurring
opinion, says:
"I do not think the machine of the Sutton patent a prodigious advance upon that of the prior Cbvert patent, and I
think a higher degree of rherit has been attributed to it than
it deserves; but it was enough of an advance to be patentable
and.to deserve protection against an infringing machine which
appropriates it."
Furthermore, it appears that while the Cimiottis acquired an
exclusive license under the Sutton patent in 1888, the same
was not put into -commercial use until the introduction of
coney skins as a substitute for sealskins, about the year 1890.
During this time the Ciniottis were unhairing a large number
of skins and preferred to continue to use the air-blast machine
of their own invention while paying tribute to Sutton. It was
the introduction of the coney industry in 1890 that gave
stimulus to the -use of such mechanisms as those used by the
Cimiottis and the respondent in this case. We think it fair

CIMIOTTI UNHAIRING CO. v. AM. FUR REF CO. 409
198 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to say that this record discloses.an invention of merit entitled
to some range of equivalents in determining the question of infringement, but it is not one of- those broad, initiative inventions where original thought has been embodied in a practical
mechanism, which the courts have been ever zealous to protect, and to which a wide range of equivalents has been accorded.
Due weight is given to the Sutton patent when it is given
credit for dispensing with the plate which Covert had in addition to the brush, and which-he supposed would carry down
the fur away from the cutting mechanism, but which Sutton
has accomplished in giving, in a measure at least, this added
function to the brush of not only parting the fur, but carrying
it down and away in preparation for the clipping by the knives.
Any one who accomplishes the same purpose by substantially
the same mechanism, using the elements claimed in Sutton's
patent, may be held to be an infringer.
Sutton has taken the step which marks the difference between a successfully operating machine and one which stops
short of that point, and that advance entitles him to the protection of a patent.
The argument here is confined, as to the alleged infringement, to the eighth, claun of the Sutton nmtent. which is as
follows:
"8. The combination of a fixed stretcher-bar, means for
mtermittingly feeding the skin over the same, a stationary
card above the stretcher-bar, a rotary separating-brush below
the same, and mechanism, substantially as described, whereby
the rotary brush is moved upward and forward into a position
in front of the stretcher-bar, substantially as set forth."
The elements of this claim are five in number- 1, a fixed
stretcher-bar; 2, means for intermittently feeding the skin over
the same; 3, a stationary card above the stretcher-bar; 4, a
rotary separating brush below the same; 5, mechanism whereby
the rotary brush is moved upward and forward into a position
in front of the stretcher-bar, "substantially as set forth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnon of the Court.

198 U. S.

In making his clami the inventor is at liberty to choose his
own form of expression, and- while the courts may construe
the same in view of the specifications and the state of the art,
they may not add to or detract from the claim. And it is
equally true that as the inventor is required to enumerate
the elements of his claim, no one is an infringer of a combination claim unless he uses all the elements thereof.- Shepard
v Carrigan,116 U S. 593, 597, Sutter v Robinson, 119 U. S.
530, 541) McClasa v Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 425, Wright v
Yuengling, 155 U S. 47, Black Diamond Co. v. Excdsior Co.,
156 U S. 611, 617, Walker on Patents, ยง 349. This principle
is particularly unportant when we come to consider the "stationary card above the stretcher-bar," an element of the
eighth claim.
The anticipating mechanism set up in this case is the socalled English Lake patent of October, 1881. This patent has
been the subject of much adverse comment in the cases involving a consideration of it. And it appears to have lapsed
for non-payment of taxes in June, 1885, and not to have been
a successful machine. It may be the fact that the patent is
not distinctly worded, and that the drawing and specifications
are somewhat confused. It does appear, however, without
contradiction in the record, that the machine now used by the
respondents was made in a large.measure from the drawings
of the Lake patent. Mischke, one of the respondents, was put
upon the stand by the petitioners, and testified that he made
the changes in a short time .rom the Lake patent, which resulted in the alleged infringing machine. The Lake patent
showed two brushes, whereas the respondents' machine has
dispensed with one and changed the position of the other. He
also admits to have changed the position of the cam and
shortened the crank arm as shown in the Lake machine. It
seems to be the position of the petitioners' expert that Mischke
made the changes in the Lake patent necessary to convert it
into an operative machine by adopting the controlling features
of the Sutton patent. But whatever are the defects of the

CIMIOTTI UNHAIRING CO. ,
198 U. S.

A.M. FUR REF CO. 411

Opimon of the Court.

Lake patent, the question here is, does the machine of the
respondents infringe the eighth claim of the Sutton .patent?
One of the respondents' machines is in evidence and we have
carefully examined it. Its general outline may be seen in the
annexed copy of the photograph in evidence:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Qpmxon of the Court.

II

I,

198 U. S.

CIMIOTTI UNHAIRING CO. v. AMI.
198 U. S.

FUR REF CO. 413

Opimon of the Court.

The operation of the alleged infringing machine is such that
when the power is applied for moving the stretcher-bar it
is carried forward to the revolving brush, and after the brush
has separated the fur from the hair, carried upwardly, to be
acted upon by the cutting kives. The reciprocating motion
of the stretcher-bar from the brush to the knives is produced
by the action of the crank (operating with the cam) on the
main shaft, as shown m the photograph At the same time
the mechanism for feeding the machine is in operation, actuated
by the same application of power. This mechanism (shown
in the photograph at the side of the respondents' machine)
consists of the pawl (attached to the main frame) and the
ratchet-wheel (attached to the moving frame), turning when
the pawl engages therein, and acting with the worm gearing
shown, to turn the roll which is part of the feeding mechanism.
The operation is such that when the stretcher-bar is carried
from the kives to the'brush m the return motion, the action
of the pawl upon the ratchet-wheel, with the worm gearing,
causes the roll to turn and the pelt to be carried forward, the
extent of the feed being regulated by the adj.stment of the
pawl. By this means the necessity of an independently acting
mechanism for the feeding apparatus is avoided and the operation simplified.
The Sutton device, as we have seen, has a stationary stretcherbar; the respondents' mechanism has a movable stretcher-bar.
The fixed stretcher-bar, about which the other mechanism
acts, is made a distinct feature of the eighth claim. It is not
present in the respondents' mechanism, unless itis true, as
argued, that the one is substantially the equivalent of the
other. It-is said to make no difference whether the knife and
brush are carned to the stretcher-bar or the stretcher-bar is
carried to the knife and brush. This might be true if the
mechanisms were substantially the same, and there was a
mere transposition or substitution of parts. Such changes
would amount to an infringement. Bt in determining infringement we are entitled to look at the practical operation

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

of the machines. The other elements of the eighth claim are
to be used in connection with the apparatus shown -in the
Sutton patent, substantially as described. If the device of
the respondents shows a substantially different mode of operation, even though the result of the operation of the machine
remains the same, infringement is avoided. Brooks v Fiske,
15 How 212, 221, Unon Steam Pump Co. v Battle Creek
Steam Pump Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 337, 343. In the latter case
Judge Severens, who delivered the opinion of the court, after
recognizing the doctrine that mere change of the location of
parts, if the parts still perform the same function, did not
take the structure without the bounds of the patent, said.
"If, however, such changes of size, form, or location effect
a change in the principle or mode of operation such. as breaks
up the relation and co6peration of the parts, this results in
such a change in the means as displaces the conception of the
inventor, and takes the new structure outside of the patent."
And see Kokomo Fence Machtne Co. v Kitselman, 189 U. S.
8. in which' case it was- held that where the patent does not
embody a primary invention, but only an improvement on
the prior art, -and the defendant's machines can be differentiated, the charge of infringement is not sustained.
In the case under consideration the respondents have dispensed with the fixed stretcher-bar and have adopted a movable one, operated- by an entirely different mechanism, capable
of accomplishing a much larger amount of work within a given
time. In the Circuit Court of Appeals it was said to result
in a double working capacity and product. It does not seem
to us to be a mier transposition or substitution of parts; in
the Sutton patent, the stretbher-bar being stationary, there
are several mechaiisms used for operating the movable brushes
and the clippmg kives; a different mechanism is used for
operating the different parts which are to be brought to the
fixed stretcher-bar in carryingout the operation intended. In
the respondents' machine the same application of power moves
the stretcher-bar and, by the co~peration of the feeding ap-

CIMJOTTI UNHAIRING CO. v. A.; FUR REF CO. 415
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

paratus as above outlined, feeds the'machme by bringing the
pelt forward, at the same time actuating the knives, in practically one operation. This seems to us to be a distinct mechanical departure, as well as an advance upon the Sutton machine,
when considered in view of the results accomplished.
Moreover, if infringement could be otherwise sustained, the
decree must be affirmed, because the eighth claim has made
the stationary card, shown at "E" in the drawing, an essential
part of the mechanism described. It may be that this card
is unnecessary, and that it was dropped from the later patents
issued to Sutton, but it is in this claim, and as was said by
Judge Wallace in his dissenting opifribn in Cimwtth Unharmng.
Co. v Nearseal Unharzng Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 507, 510, "the
patent industriously makes the stationary card, substantially
as aescribed, an element of the claim." Of this card the
inventor said.
"Immediately above the stretcher-bar B is arranged a
stationary card, E, which is attached to the ends of the stretcherbar B by means of thumb-screws. (Not shown in the drawings.) The points of the teeth of the card E are close to but
do not touch the surface of the skin, so that the hair and fur
are both straightened as the skin is fed -orward. The teeth
of the card E hold down the fine fur, but permit the stiff 1 airs
to stand up between the teeth, owing to the slow forward,
movement of the skin, which gives the hairs sufficient time to
so adjust themselves."
He also says: "The card is set back from the edge of the
stretcher-bar to a distance a little more than one-half of the
length of the fur, for the purpose of holding the fur and preventing it from moving forward until the forward motion of
the skin takes place."
While it is said that the card does not touch the surface
of the skin so that the hair and fur are both straightened as
the. skin is fed forward, it is true that the teeth of the card in
some measure hold down the. fine fur, and it is irsisted that
the mechanical equivalent of this card is found in respondents'

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

198 U.S.

machine in the compression bar,.which also acts to hold down
the fur before it is carried to the separating brush. But this
bar has no carding feature to it, and cannot be made to perform the functions of a card, it has no separate teeth, and is
not a card or the mechanical equivalent of one shown and
described and made a part of the eighth claim.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in the conclusion that the mechanism of the respondents was so materially
different from the Sutton patent as to avoid the infringement
alleged; and that an essential element, of the eighth claim of
the Sutton patent was not used by the respondents.
Decree affirmed.

LEONARD v. VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT AND PACIFIC
RAILROAD COMP'ANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 233. Argued April 26, 27, 1905.-Decided May 2, 1505.

The rule reiterated that persons may by their acts, or omissions to act,
waive rights which they might otherwise have under the Constitution
and laws of the United States; and the question whether they have or
have not lost such rights by their failure to act, or by their action, is not
a Federal question.
The judgment in this case rested on grounds broad enough to sustam it
independent of any Federal question.

THIs was an action of ejeetment brought, in 1896, by the
Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pac'fic Railroad Company in the
First Judicial District Court, Caddo Parish, Louisiana, against
certain possessors, for whom Smith, Leonard and others were
substituted as defendants, to recover 178.80 acres of land in
that parish less 35.18 acres theretofore recovered by Smith
and others in another action.
Defendants, both by plea and answer, .set up that theY,
being either the heirs of W W Smith, or parties privy, brought
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for.,the Westem

