HARRIS v. BALK.
198 U. S.

Syllabus.

that construction may have, as the question. is not necessarily
here involved, we do not e pressly decide it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeal s reversed,.and
that of the Distrct Court affirmed, cause remanded to the
latter court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the decision of this
cause.

HARRIS v. BALK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 191. Argued April 4,195.W-Deoided May 9, 1905.
A citizen of North Carolina who owed money to another citizen of that
State, was, while temporarily in Maryland, garnisheed by a creditor of the
man to whom he owed the money Judgment was duly entered according to Maryland practice and paid. Thereafter the garnishee was sued
m North Carolina by the original creditor and set up the garnishee judgment and payment, but the North Carolina courts held that as the situs
of the debt was m North Carolina the Maryland judgment was not a
bar and awarded judgment against him. Held, error and that:
As under the laws of Maryland the garnishee could have been sued by his
creditor in the courts of that State he was subject to garnishee process
if found and served in the State even though only there temporarily, no
matter where the situs of the debt was originally.
Attachment is the creature of the local law, and power over the person of
the garnishee confers jurisdiction on the courts of the State where the
writ issues. A judgment against a garnishee, properly obtained according to the law of the State, and paid, must under the full faith and
credit clause of the Federal Constitution, be recognized as a payment of
the original debt, by the courts of another State, in an action brought
against the garmshee' by the original creditor.
Where there is absolutely no defense and the plaintiff is entitled to recover,
there is no reason why the garnishee should not consent to a judgment
impounding the debt, and his doing so does not amount to such a voluntary payment that he is not protected thereby under the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution.
While it
...c ujJ., of the courts to prevent the payment oD any debt

OCTOBER TERM,* 1904.
Statement of the Case.

-

195 U. S

twice. over, the failure on the part of the garnishee to give proper notice
to his creditor, of the levying of the attachment, would be such neglect
of duty to his creditor, as would prevent. him from availingof the garnishee judgment as a bar to the suit of the creditor, and thus oblige
him to pay the debt twice.
THE plaintiff in error brings the case here in order to review
the judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, affirming a judgment of a lower court against him for $180, with
interest, as stated therein. £he case has been several times
before the Supreme Court of that State, and is reported in
122 N. Car. 64, again, 124 N. Car. 467, the opinion delivered
at the time of entering the judgment now under review, is.
to be found in 130 N. Car. 381, see also 132 N. Car. 10.
The facts are as follows: The plaintiff in error, Harris, was
a resident of North Carolina at the time of the commencement
of this action in 1896, and prior to that time was indebted to
the defendant in error, Balk, also a resident of North Carolina,
in the sum of $180, for money borrowed from Balk by Harris
during the year 1896, which Harris verbally promised to repay,.
but there was no written evidence of the obligation. During
the year above mentioned one Jacob Epstein, a resident of
Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, asserted that Balk was
indebted to him in the sum of over $300. In August, 1896,
Harris visited Baltimore for the purpose of purchasing merchandise, and while he was in that- city temporarily oA -Augtst 6, 1896, Epstein. caused to be issued out of a proper court.
in Baltimore a foreign or non-resident writ of. attachment
against Balk, attaching, the debt due Balk from Harris, which
writ the sheriff at Baltimore laid in the hands of Harris, with
h summons to appear in the court at a day named. With that
attachment, a writ of summons and a short declaration against
Balk (as provided by the Maryland statute), were also delivered to the sheriff and by him set up at the court house door,
as required by the law of Maryland. Before the return day
of the attachment writ Harris left Baltimore and returned- to
his home in North Carolina. Ie did not contest the garnishee

HARRIS r. BALIC.
198 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

process, wich was issued to garnish the debt which Harris
owed Balk.. After his return Harris made an affidavit on
August 11, 1896, that he owed Balk $180, and stated that the
amount had been attached by Epstein of Baltimore, and by
his counsel in the Maryland proceeding Harris consented
therein to an order of condemnation against him as such garnishee for $180, the amount of his debt to Balk. Judgment
was thereafter entered against the garnishee and in favor of
the plaintiff, Epstein, for $180. After the entry of the garnishee judgment, .'condemning the $180 in the hands of the
garnishee, Harris paid the amount of the judgment to one
Warren, an attorney of Epstein, residing in North Carolina.
On August 11, 1896, Balk-commenced an action against Harris
before a justice of the peace in North Carolina, to recover the
$180 which he averred Harris owed him. The plaintiff in
error, by way of answer to the suit, pleaded in bar the recovery of the Maryland judgment and. his payment thereof,
and contended that it was conclusive .against the defendant
in error in this action, because that judgment was a valid judgment in Maryland, and was therefore entitled to full faith and
credit in the courts of North Carolina. This contention was
not allowed by the trial court, and judgment was accordingly
entered against Harris for the amounit of his indebtedness to
Balk, and that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of North Carolina. The ground of such judgment, was that
the Maryland court obtained no jurisdiction to attach or
garnish the debt due from Harris to Balk, because Harris was
but temporarily in the State, and the situs of the debt was in
Nofth Carolina.
Mr -George W S. Musgrave, with -whom Mr Sylvan Hayes
Lauchhezmer was on the brief, for plamtiff:in errorGarnishee judgment was properly entered so far as practice
in Maryland is concerned. Cockey v Lezster, 12 Maryland,
124, Garner v Garner,56 Maryland, 127, Buschman v Hanna,
72 Maryland, 1, 5, Maryland Code, Art. IX, J 34.

OCTOBER TERINI, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

199 U. S.

As to the question of the situs of a debt, there has been much
controversy and a great diversity of opinion, but the weight of
authority is that the position taken by the Supreme Court of
North Carolina was wrong.
A debt is something which (in the absence of some written
evidence) exists only m contemplation of law It is merely
the right one person has to ask or demand of another a certain
amount of money or other property; an incorporeal right, invisible, intangible and without substantive existence.
The situs of a debt for the purposes of garnishment is not
only at the domicil of the debtor, but in any State in which
the garnishee may be found, provided the municipal law of
the State permits the debtor. to be garnished, and provided
the court acquires- jurisdiction over the garnishee through his
voluntary appearance, or by actual service of process upon him
within the State. Minor on Conflict of Laws, § 125.
This is supported by a long line of cases, the most important
of which are the following: Chi., R. I. & Pac. R. R. v Sturm,
174 U S. 710; Tootle.v. Coleman, 107 Fed. Rep. 41, Mooney
v Buford Mfg. Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 32; Morgan v Neville, 74
Pa. St. 52; Savrn v Bond, 57 Maryland, 228, Nat. Ins. Co. v
Chambers, 53 N. J. Eq. 468, Harvey v Railroad, 50 Minnesota,
405, Wyeth v Lang, 127 Missouri, 242, Lancashire Ins. Co. v
Corbetts, 165 Illinois, 592, Embree v Hanna, 5 Johns. 101,
C., B. & Q. Ry. v Moore, 31 Nebraska, 629; Hull v Blake, 13
Massachusetts, 153, Blake v Williams, 6 Pick. 286, Harwell
v Sharp, 85 Georgia, 124, Neufelder v Ins. Co., 6 Washington,
341, Mooney v Railroad Co., 60 Iowa, 346, Howland v. Railroad Co., 134 Missouri,, 474, Railroad Co. v Thompson, 31
Kansas, 180; Railroad Co. v Crane, 102'Illinois, 249; Fithian
v Railroad Co., 31 Pa. St. 114, Wabash v Dougan, 142 Illinois,
248, Berry v Davs, 77 Texas, 191, Nichols v Hooper, 61
Vermont, 295, Samuel v Agnew, 80 Illinois, 553, Richardson
v Lester, 83 Illinois, 55, B & 0 S. W Ry. v Adams, 60
L. R. A. 396, Campbell v Home Ins. Co., 1 S. C. N. S. 158,
Glover v Wells, 40 ill. App. 350; Roche v Ins. Co., 2 Ill. App.

HARRIS v. BALK.
198'u

.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

S60; Moore v. C., R. I & P. Ry., 43 Iowa, .385, Cochran v
Fitch, 1 Sandf. Ch. 142; Mahany v Kephart, 15 W Va. 609;
Holland v M. & 0. Ry., 84 Tennessee, 414, Pomeroy v Rand,
McNally & Co., 157 Illinois, 176; Cole v Flitcraft, 47 Maryland, 312; Bnk v. Merchants' Bank, 7 Gill (Md.), 415, Brengle
v. McClellan, 7 G. & J.(Md.) 434; Newland v Reilly, 85 Michigan, 151; FeltMill v. Blanding,17 R. L 297, Cohoon v. Morgan,
38 Vermont, 236, Black on Judgmentts, §§ 593, 857, 859, 923,
Rood on Garnishment, §§ 242, 245.
Mr John H. Small for defendant in error"
The Maryland court, m the garnishment proceeding of
Epstein v. Balk and Harris, garnishee, was without jurisdiction, and the judgment can be collaterally attacked. m the
courts of North Carolina.
The jftrisdiction of the Maryland court may be attacked in
this action, even to the extent of contradicting the recital
contained in the record. Thompson -v Whitman, 18 Wall.
457, Knowles v Gaslight & Coke Co., 19 Wall. 58, Kilbourn v
Thompson, 103 U. S.198, Noble v Unwn R.ver Logging Co.,
147 U S. 173, 1 Greenleaf on Evidence (Lewis edition), § 548.
If Balk had no property m that State the Maryland court was
without jurisdiction. Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U S. 714.
Facts essential to establish the jurisdiction of the State
court must appear affirmatively by allegation or affidavit before the process of the court can issue authorizing the attachment or garnishment of the res.
While the debtor (the defendan't) and the garnishee are
both non-residents, no garnishment process can issue against
such non-resident temporarily m the State at the instance of
a plaintiff domidiled'm the State. A non-resident cannot be
held as garnishee. Rood on Garnishment, p. 21, note 5, § 15.
One who is only temporarily in a State and in which he does
not reside cannot be subjected to garnishment. Waples on
Attachment and Garnishment, "227, Drake on Attachment,
5th ed., § 474, Everett v Conn. &c. Co., 4 Colo. App. 513.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

19S U. S.

Where personal jurisdiction cannot be acquired over the
defendant on account of his being a non-resident the plaintiff
cannot garnishee a non-resident while teniporarily within the
State. 14 Am. & Eng. Ency Law, 2d ed., 803, note 2; and
as to custom of London, see p. 815, note 2, Peters v Rogers,
5 Mason, 555.
A state court cannot issue garnishment process against a

non-resident temporarily in the State, and if such process is
issued the court is without jurisdiction unless it is made to
appear that he has in his possession tangible property of the
defendant or is bound to pay the defendant money or deliver him property within the State. Penna. R. R. Co. v
Rogers, 52 W Va. 250; S. C., 62 L. R. A. 178, and notes p. 182187
That the garnishee is a non-resident and only temporarily
within the State is a jurisdictional question and not personal
to the garnishee. Shmn on Attachment and Garnishment,
860, § 491, Rindge v Green, 52 Vermont, 204. So as to service of summons. Goldey v, Morn-mg News, 156 U S. 518.
As to effect of collusive and voluntary payment by garnishee see. Baldimn v Gt. Nor Ry. Co., 51 L. R. A. 640; S. C.,
64 L. R. A. 625. Garnishment statutes are strictly construed
as against the party resorting to the remedy State Bank v
Hinton, 1 Dev Law (12 N. C.), 397 A garnishee who has paid
under an invalid judgment cannot plead the same in bar.
Mermam v Rundlett, 13 Pick. (Mass.) 511, Rood on Garnishment, § 208.
The Maryland- court could not garnishee a non-resident
temporarily within the State. See act of legislature of Maryland, 1868, ch. 471, §211, under which a citizen of Maryland
cannot sue a non-resident and garnishee a foreign corporation
doing business in Maryland when the cause of action or contract of insurance was not consummated in Maryland. Myer
v Inmtrance Co., 40 Maryland, 595, Cromwell v Inswrance Co.,
49 Maryland, 366. Chicago &c. Ry. v Sturin, 174 U S. 710,
does not apply

HARRIS v. BALK.
198 U. S.

I

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAMI, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The state court of North Carolina has refused to give any
effect in this action to the Maryland judgment, and the Federal
question is, whether it did not thereby refuse the full faith and
credit to such judgment which is required by the Federal
Constitution. If the Maryland court had jurisdiction to award
it, the judgment is valid and entitled to the same full faith and
credit in North Carolina that it has in Maryland as a valid
domestic judgment.
The defendant m error contends that the Maryland- court
obtained no jurisdiction to award the judgment of condemnation, because the garnishee, although at the time in the State
of Maryland, and personally served with process therein, was
a non-resident of that State, only casually or temporafily
within its boundaries; that the situs of the debt due from
Harris, the garnishee, to the defendant in error herein was in
North Carolina, and did not accompany Harris to Maryland,
that, consequently, Harris, though within the State of Maryland, had not possession of any .property of Balk, and the
Maryland state court therefore obtained no jurisdiction over
any property of Balk in the attachment proceedings, and the
consent of Harris to the entry of the judghient was unmatenal. The plaintiff in error, on the contrary, insists that,
though the garnishee were but temporarily in Maryland, yet
the laws of that State provide for an attachment of this nature,
if the debtor, the garnishee, fs found in the State and the court
obtains jurisdiction over him by the service of process therein,
that the judgment, condemning the debt~from Harris to Balk,
was a valid judgment, provided Balk could himself have sued
Harris for the debt im"Maryland. This, it is asserted, he could
have done, and the judgment was therefore entitled to full
faith and credit in the courts of North Carolina.
The cases holding that the state court obtains no jurisdiction
over the. garnishee if he be but temporarily within the State,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
sOpmionof the Court.

198 U. S.

proceed upon the theory that the situs of the debt is at the
domicil either of the creditor or of the debtor, and that it does
not follow-the debtor in his casual or temporary journey into
another State, and the garnishee has no possession of any
property or credit of the principal-debtor in the foreign State.
We regard the contention .of. the plaintiff in error as the
correct one. The authorities in the various state courts upon
this question are not, at all in harmony They have been
collected by counsel, and will be found in their respective
briefs, and it is not necessary to here enlarge upon them.
Attachment is the creature of the local law; that is, unless
there is a law of the State providing for and permitting the
attachment it cannot be levied there. If there be a law of
the State providing for the attachment of the debt, then if the
garnishee be found in that State, and process be personally
served upon him therein, we think the court thereby acquires
jurisdiction over him, and can garnish the debt due from him
to the debtor of the plaintiff -and condemn it, provided the
garnishee could himself be sued by his creditor in that State.
We do not see how the question of jurisdiction rel non can
properly be made to depend upon the so-called original situs
of the debt, or upon the character of the stay of the garnishee,
whether temporary or permanent, in the State where the attachment is issued. Power over the person of the garnishee
confers jurisdiction on the courts of the State where the writ
issues. Blackstone v Miller, 188 U S. 189, 206. If, while
temporarily there, his creditor might sue him there and recover the -debt, then he is liable to process of garnishment,
no matter where the situs of the debt was originally We do
not see the materiality of the expression "situs of the debt,"
when used in connection with attachment proceedings. If
by situs is meant the place of the creation of the debt, that fact
is, immaterial. If it be meant that the obligation to pay the
debt can only be enforced at the situs thus fixed, we think it
plainly untrue. The obligation of the debtor to pay his debt
clings to and accompanies him wherever he goes. He is as

HARRIS v. BALK.
198 U.S.

Opmiono f the Court.

much bound to pay his debt in a foreign State when therein
sued upon his obligation by his creditor, as he-was in the
State where the debt was contracted. We speak of ordinary
debts, such as the one in this case. It would be no defense to
such suit for the debtor to plead that he was only in the foreign
State casually or temporarily His obligation to pay would
be the same whether he.was there in that way or with an intention to remain. It is nothing but the obligation to pay
whicli is garnished or attached. This obligation can be enforced by the courts of the foreign State after personal service
-of process thereni, just as well as by the courts of the domicil
of the.debtor.. If the debtor leave the foreign State without
appearing, a judgment by default may be entered, upon which
execution mayj issue; -or the judgment may be sued upon in
any other.State where the debtor might be found. In such
case the situs is unimportant. It is not a question of possession in the foreign State, for possession cannot be taken of a
debt or of the obligation to pay it, as tangible property might
be taken possession of. Notice to the debtor (garnishee) of
the commencement of the suit, and notice not to pay to his
creditor, is all that can be given, whether the garnishee be a
mere casual and temporary comer, or a resident of the State
.where the attachment is laid. His obligation to pay to his
creditor is thereby arrested and a lien created upon the debt
itself. Cahoon v Morgan, 38 Vermont, 234, 236; NationatFire
Ins. Co. v. Chambers, 53 N. J. Eq. 468, 483. We can see no
reason why the attachment could not be thus laid, provided
the creditoy of -the gamishee could-himself sue in that State
and its laws permitted the attachment.
There can 'be no doubt that Balk, as a citizen of the State
of North Carolina, had the right to sue Harris in Maryland to
recover the debt *hich Hams owed him. Being a citizen of
North Carolina, he was entitled to all the privileges aikd immunities, of citizens of the several States, one of which is the
right to institute .actions in the courts of another State. The
law of. Maryland provides for the attachment of credits in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinon of the Court.

198 U. S.

case like this. See sections 8 and 10 of Article 9 of the Code
of-Public General Laws of Maryland, -which provide that, upon
the proper facts being shown (as stated in. the article), the attachinent may be. sued out against lands, tenements, goods
and credits of -the debtor. Section 10 particularly provides
that "Any kind of property or creditg belonging to the defend.ant, in the plaintiff's own hands, or in the hands of any one
else, may be attached, and credits may be attached which shall
not then be due." Sections 11, 12 and 13 of the abovementioned article provide the general practice for levying the
attachment and the proceedings subsequent thereto. Where
money or credits are attached the inchoate lien attachesto the
fund or credits when the attachment is laid in the hands of the
garnishee, and the judgment condemning the amount in his
hands becomes a personal juidgment against him. 'Buschman
v Hanna,72 Maryland, 1, 5,. 6. Section 34 of the same Maryland Code provides also that this judgment of condemnation
against .the garnishee, or payment by hinm of -such judgment,
is pleadable in bar to an action brought against him by the
defendant in the attachment suit for or concerning the property or credits.so condemned.
It thus appears that Balk could have sued Hars 'in Maryland to recover his debt, notwithstanding the temporary character of Harris' stay there, it also appears that the municipal
law of Maryland permits, the debtor of the principal, debtor
to be garnished, and therefore if the court of the*State where
the garnishee is found obtains jurisdiction over him, through
the service of process upon him within the State, then the
judgment entered is a valid judgment, See Minor on Conflict
of Laws, section 125, where the various theories regarding the
subject are stated and many of the authorities cited. He there
cites many cases to prove the correctness of the theory of the
validity of the judgment where the municipal law permits the
-debtor to be garnished, although his being within the State is
lwt temporary. See pp. 289, 290. This is the doctrine which
is .also'adcpt d in Morgan v Neville, 74 Pa,, St. 52,. by the

HARRIS v. "BALK.
198 IT.S.

Opinon of the Court.

Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, per Agnew, J., in delivering
the opinion of that court. The same principle is held in
Wyeth Hardware &c. Co. v Lang, 127. Missouri, 242, 247, in
Lancashire Insurance Co. v Corbetts, 165 Illinois, 592, and in
Harvey v Great Northern Ry.Co., 50 Minnesota, 405, 406( 407,
and to the same effect is mlbree v Han.., 5 Johns. (N. Y.)
101, also Savin v Bond, 57 Maryland, 228, where. the court
held that the attachment was properly- served upon a party
in the District of Columbia while he was temporarily there,
that as his debt to the appellant was payable wherever he was
found, and process had-been served upon him in the District
of* Columbia, the Supreme Court of the .District had unquestibned jurisdiction to render judgment, and the same having
been paid, there was no error in granting the prayer of the
appellee that such jpudgment was conclusive. The case in
138 N. Y, 209, Douglass v Insurance Co., is not contrary to
this doctrine. The question there was not as to the temporary
.character of the presence of the garnishee in the-State of Massachusetts, but, as the garnishee was a foreign corporation, it
was held that it was not within the State of Massachusetts so
as to be liable to attachment by the service upon an agent of,
the company within that State. The general principle laid
down in Embree v.- Hanna, 5 Johns. (N. Y.) 101, was recognized as correct. There are, as we have-said, authoities to
the contrary, and they cannot be reconciled.
It seems .to us, however, that the principle decided in
Chicago, R. I. &c. Ry. Co. v Sturm, 174 U S.710, recognizes
the jurisdiction, although in that case it appears that the
presence of the garnishee w s not merely a temporary one in
the State where the process was. served. In that case it was
said. " 'All debts are payable everywhere, unless there be
some, special limitation or provision in respect to 'the payment,
the rule being that debts as such have no locus or situs, but
accompany the creditor everywhere, and authorize a demand
upon the debtor everywhere.' 2 Parsons on Contracts, 8th
ed., 702 (9th ed., 739). The debt revolved in the pending
VOL. "OXOVIII-1

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904;
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

case had no 'special limitation or provision in respect to payment.' It was payable generally, and could have been 'sued
on n Iowa, and therefore was attachable n Iowa. This is the
principle and effect of the best considered cases-the inevitable
effect from the nature of transitory actions and the purpose of
foreign attachment laws if we would enforce that purpose."
The case recognizes the right of the creditor to sue in the State
where the debtor may be found, even if but temporarily there,
and upon that right is built the further right of the creditor
to attach the debt owing by the garnishee to his creditor. The
inportance of the fact of the right of the original creditor to
sue his debtor in the foreign State, as affecting the right of 'the
creditor of that creditor to sue the debtor or garnishee, lies in
the nature of the attachmefit proceeding. The plaintiff, in
such proceeding in the foreign State is able-to sue out the attachment and attach the debt due from the garnishee to his
(the garnishee's) creditor, because of the fact that the plaintiff
is really in such proceeding a representative of the creditor of
the garnishee, and therefore if such creditor himself had the
right to commence suit to recover the debt in the foreign
State his representative has the same right, as representing
him, and may garnish or attach the debt, provided the municipal law of the State where the attachment was sued out
permits it.
It seems to us, therefore, that the judgment against Harris
in Maryland, condemning the $180 which he .owed to Balk,
was a valid judgment, because the court had jurisdiction oler
the garnishee by personal service of process within the State
of Maryland.
It ought to be and it is the object of courts to prevent the
payment of any debt twice over. Thus, if Harris owing a debt
to Balk, paid it under a valid judgment against him, to Epstein,
he certainly ought not to be compelled to pay it a second time,
but should have the right to .plead, his payment under the
Maryland judgment. It is objected, however, that the pay-ment by Harris to Epstem was not under legal compulsion.

HARRIS v. BALK.
198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

Harris in truth owed the debt to Balk, which was attached by
Epstein. He had, therefore, as we have seen, no defense to
set up against the attachment of the debt. Jurisdiction over
hun personally had been obtained by the Maryland -court.
As he was absolutely without defense, there was no reasor why
he should not consent to a judgment impounding the debt,
which judgment the plaintiff was legally entitled to, and winch
he could not prevent. There was no merely voluntary payment within the meaning of that phrase as applicable here.
But most rights may be lost by negligence, and if the garnishee were guilty of negligence in the attachment proceeding,
to the damage of Balk, he ought not t6-be permitted to set up
the judgment as a defense. Thus it is recognized as the duty
of the garnishee to give notice to his own creditor, if he would
protect himself, so that the creditor may have the opportunity
to defend himself -against the claun of the person suing out the
attachment. This duty iAaffirmed in the case above cited of
Morgan v Neville, 74 Pa. St. 52, and is spoken of in RailroadCo. v Sturm, supra, although it is not therein actually decided
to be necessary, because in that case notice was given and
defense made. While the want of notification by the garnishee
to hi own creditor may have noeffect upion the validity of the
judgment against the garnishee (the proper publication being
made by the plaintiff), we think it has and ought to have an
effect upon the right of the garnishee to avail himself, of the
prior judgment and his payment thereunder. This notification by the garnishee is for the purpose of making sure that
his creditor shall have an opportunity to defend the claim
made against him in the attachment suit. Fair dealing requires this at the hands of the garnishee. In this case, while
neither the defendant nor the garnishee appeared, th6 court,
while condemning the credits attached, could not, by the terms
of the.Maryland statute, issue the writ of execution unless the
plaintiff gave bond or sufficient security before the court
awarding the execution, to makeiestitution of the money paid
if tbe defendant should, at any time within a year and a day,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

198 U. S.

appear in the action and show that. the plaintiff's claim, or
some part thereof, was not due to the plaintiff. The defendant in error, -Balk, had notice of this attachment,. certainly
within a few days after the issuing thereof and the entry of
judgment thereon, because he sued the plaintiff in error to
recover his debt withih a few days after his (Harris') return
to North Carolina, in which suit the judgment in Maryland
was set up by Harris as a plea m bar to Balk's claim. Balk,
therefore, had an opportunity for a year and a day after the
entry of the judgment to litigate the question of Ins liability
in the Maryland court and to show that he did not owe the
debt, or some part of it, as was claimed by Epstein. He,
however, took no proceedings to that end, so far as the record
shows, and the reason may be supposed to be that he could
notsuccessfully defend the claim, because he admitted.in this
case that he did, at the time of the attachment proceeding,
owe Epstein some $344.
Generally, though, the failure on the part of the garnishee
to give-proper notice to Ins creditor of the levying of the attachment would be such a neglect of duty on the part of the
garnishee which he owed to his creditor as would prevent his
availing himself of the judgment in the attachment suit as a
bar to the suit of his creditor against himself, which might
therefore result in his being called upon to pay the debt twice.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina must
be reversed and the cause iemanded for further proceedings

not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN

and MR. JUSTICE DAY dissented.

