OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

HOPPER v. COVINGTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIAN!A.
Argued April 21, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

In an action upon a negotiable bond issued by a town authorized by the public
laws of the State to issue such bonds fcr certain purposes only, a declaration alleging that the defendant is a municipal corporation, 6xisting
under the laws of the State, with full power and authoritypursuant to those
laws to execute negotiable commercial paper, and that pursuant to those
laws it executed the bond sued on-without showing for what purpose the
bond was made-is bad on demurrer.

This was an action by a citizen of New York against a town
in Indiana upon certain bonds and coupons.
The complaint alleged "that said defendant is a municipal
corporation, organized and existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of Indiana, with full power and authority,
pursuant to the laws of said State, to execute negotiable commercial paper; that, pursuant to the laws of said State regulating the execution of such negotiable conmercial obligations,
said defendant, on the first day of October, 1878, by its proper
officers and agents, executed its negotiable commercial bond
payable to bearer ten years after date at the Farmers' Bank in
Covington, Indiana, which bank then was a bank of deposit
and discount at said town of Covington, Indiana; that thereafter and before the maturity of said bond plaintiff purchased
the same for a valuable consideration, and is still the owner
thereof; a copy of said bond is filed herewith and hereby made
part of this complaint, marked Exhibit A," to wit:
$500.
United States of America.
"The town of Covington, State of Indiana, will pay ten years
after date to the bearer five hundred dollars, with interest at
eight per cent. per annum, the interest payable as designated
by coupons hereto attached, and the principal upon presentation of the bond when the same shall have become due. This
"No. 21.

HOPPER v. COVINGTON.
Statement-of Facts.

bond shall be payable after five years from the date hereof, at
the option of the town of Covington. Payable at the Farmers'
Bank in Covington, Indiana. Each coupon attached shall be
prinzafalie evidence of payment of the accrued interest.
"In witness whereof, the corporatjixf seal of said town is
hereto affixed, and this bond is signed by the president of this
board of trustees and attested by the clerk thereof,,this first
day of October, A.D. 1870.
[SFAL.]

A. GisH, President.

"Attest: FnANx M. THcys, Clerk."
The con1plaint then alleged that the plaintiff was the owner
of thirty-nine other bonds of precisely like tenor and effect, except that they were differently numbered, and that twenty of
them were for one hundred dollars each, (stating the numbers
and amounts of each,) and that he purchased each before maturity and for a valuable consideration. "Plaintiff says that
said bond, Exhibit A, and each of said other bonds, is past due
and wholly unpaid; wherefore plaintiff prays judgment for
twenty thousand dollars against said defendant,, and for all
proper relief."
The complaint also contained a count, with similar allegations, upon coupons for interest, attached to such bonds at the
time of their execution, and in this form:
"$4 0.

Covington, Ind., October 1st, 1879.
"One year after date the Town of Covington, Ind., will pay
to the bearer in the city of New York forty dollars, being one
year's interest on bond No. 21.
A. GisH, Pres't.
"Attest: FR.A&X M. llicus, Clerk."
The defendant demurred to the complaint, because it stated
no cause of action against the defendant; because it did not
allege under what law or for what purpose the bonds and coupons sued on were issued; because it contained no allegation
showing authority in the defendant to make the bonds and
coupons sued on; and because the allegation in the complaint

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of power and authority in the defendant to make the bonds
and coupons in suit was an averment of a legal conclusion.
The court sustained the demurrer, and rendered judgment
for the defendant; and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
.A-. ,JEL 3f.Donald for plaintiff in error. 7fr. .ohn X.
Bater was with him on the brief.
.M'. Thomwa F. -Davidsgonfor defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTIC, GzAY, after stating'the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The town of Covington had no general power to issue negotiable bonds. If the general statute of Indiana of June 11,
1852, under which it was incorporated, conferred any power
upon towns to issue bonds, it was only for certain municipal
purposes therein specified; and the general statute of May 15,
1869, authorized tovins to issue bonds for the purchase and
erection of lands and buildings for school purposes only.
1 Gavin & Hord's Stat. 623-626; Davis's Supplt. 116.
The bonds in suit containing no statement of the purpose for
which they were issued, and no recital which can bind the
town by way of estoppel, any one suing upon the bonds is
bound to allege and prove the authority of the town to issue
them.
The plaintiff relies on the statement of Air. Justice Swayne
in Ge4poke v. Dubuue, 1 Wall. 175, 203, repeated by him and
by Mr. Justice Clifford in later cases, that "when a corporation
has power, under any circumstances, to issue negotiable securities, the bona fide holder has a right to presume they were
issued under the circumstances which give the requisite authority, and they are no more liable to be impeached for any infirmity in the hands of such a holder than any other commercial paper," Supervisors v. Scltenck, 5 Wall. 772, 784; Lexington v. Butler, 14 Wall. 282, 296; San Antonio v. _31ehaffy, 96
U. S. 312, 314; Mlacon County v. Shores, 97 U. S. 272, .79.
But the circumstances thus spoken of were the preliminary
facts requisite to the exercise of the power, not the limits, fixed

HOPPER v. COVINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

by law, of the objects and purposes for which the power could
be exercised at all. In each of the cases cited, the defects suggested were in the requisite preliminary proceedings, and the
bonds sued on appeared by recitals on their face to have been
issued according to law. When the law confers no authority
to issue the bonds in question, the mere fact of their issue cannot bind the town to pay them, even to a purchaser before maturity and for value. .farshv. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676;
.Ease Otkland v. Skinner, 94 U. S. 255; Buchanan v. Litoeteld, 102 U. S. 278; Dixon Oounty v. Field, 111 U. S. 83;
H7ayes v. Holly 8prings, 114 U. S. 120; Daviess County v.
Dickinson, 117 U. S. 657.
A demurrer admits only facts, and facts well pleaded.
The town having but a limited authority to issue bonds for
certain purposes, it is not enough for the plaintiff to aver in
general terms that the town was authorized to issue the bonds
in suit; but he must state the facts which bring the case within
the special authority. There is nothing in this declaration, or
in the copies of instruments annexed to and made part of it,
which shows, or has any tendency to show, for what purpose
the bonds were made. The averment, that the defendant is a
municipal corporation under the laws of Indiana, "with full
power and authority, pursuant to the laws of said State, to
execute negotiable commercial paper," if understood as alleging a general pbwer to execute negotiable commercial paper,
is inconsistent with the public laws of the State, of which the
courts of the United States take julicial notice. The averment, that the bonds held by the plaintiff were executed
pursuant to the laws of the State, is but a statement of a conclusion of law, which is not admitted by demurrer. The declaration is fatally defective for not stating the facts-necessary
to enable the court to.judge for itself whether that conclusion
of law has any foundation in fact. Pumpelly v. Green Bay
Co., 13 Wall. 166, 175; Ceagin v. Lavell, 109 U. S. 194; Kennard v. Cass County, 3 Dillon, 147; Broome v. Taylor, 76 N.
Y. 564; Cotton v. H ew Providence, 18 Vroom, 401.

Judgrment affinred.

