OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

YICK WO v. HOPKINS, SHERIFF.
:EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

WO LEE v. HOPKIS, SHERIFF.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted April 14, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

In a suit brought to this court from a State court which involves the constitutionality of ordinances made by a municip-l corporation in the State, this
court will, when necessary, put its own independent construction upon the
ordinances.
A municipal ordinance to regulate the carrying on of public laundries within the
limits of the municipality violates the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, if it confers upon the municipal authorities arbitrary power,
at their own will, and without regard to discretion in the legal sense of the
term, to give or withhold consent as to persons or places, without regard
to the competency of the persons applying, or the propriety of the place
selected, for the carrying on of the business.
An administration of a municipal ordinance for the carrying on of a lawful
business within the corporate limits violates the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, if it makes arbitrary and unjust discriminations,
founded on differences of race, between persons otherwise in similar circumstances.
The guarantees of protection contained in the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution extend to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction of the
United States, without regard to differences of race, of color, or of nationality.
Those subjects of the Emperor of China who have the right to temporarily or
permanently reside within the United States, are entitled to enjoy the protection guaranteed by the Constitution and afforded by the laws.

These two cases were argued as one and depended upon
precisely the same state-of facts; the first coming here upon a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of California,
the second on appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for that district.
The plaintiff in error, Yick Wo, on August 24, 1885, petitioned the Supreme Court of California for a writ of .habea8
co'yus, alleging that he was illegally deprived of his personal

YICK WO v. HOPKINS.
Statement of Facts.

liberty by the defendant as sheriff of the city and county of
San Francisco.
The sheriff made return to the writ that he held tha
petitioner in custody by virtue of a sentence of the Police
Judges Court, No. 2, of the city and county of San Francisco,
whereby he was found guilty of a violation of certain ordinances of the board of supervisors of that county, and adjudged
to pay a fine of $10, and, in default of payment, be imprisoned in the county jail at the rate of one day for each dollar
of fine until said fine should be satisfied, and a commitment in
consequence of non-payment of said fine.
The ordinances for the violation of which he had been found
guilty were set out as follows: .
Order No. 1569, passed May 26, 1880, prescribing the kind
of buildings in which laundries may be located.
"The people of the cit-- and county of San Francisco do
ordain as follows:
"SFo. 1. It shall be un.... cful, from and after the passage of
this order, for any person or persons to establish, maintain, or
carry on a laundry within the corporate limits of the city and
county of San Francisco without having first obtained the
consent of the board of supervisors, except the same be located
in a building constructed either of brick or stone.
"SEC. 2. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, build,
or maintain, or cause to be erected, built, or maintained, over
or upon the roof of any building now erected or which may
hereafter be erected within the limits of said city and county,
any scaffolding, without first obtaining the written permission
of the board of supervisors, which permit shall state fully for
what purpose said scaffolding is to be erected and used, and
such scaffolding shall not be used for any other purpose than
that designated in such permit.
"SEc. 3. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this order shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment in the
county.jail not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statemnent of Facts.

Order No. 158,7, passed July 28, 1880, the following section:
"SEc. 68. It shall be unlawful, from and after the passage

of this order, for any person or persons to establish, maintain,
or carry on a laundry within the corporate limits of the city
and county of San Francisco without having first obtained the
consent of the board of supervisors, except the same be located
in a building constructed either of brick or stone."
-The following facts were also admitted on the record: That
petitioner is a native of China and came to California in 1861,
and is still a subject- of the Emperor of China; that*he has
been engaged in the laundry business in the same premises and
building for twenty-two years last past; that he had a license
from the board of fire wardens, dated March 3, 1884, from
which it appeared "that the above described premises have
been inspected by the board of fire wardens, and upon such
inspection said board found all proper arrangements for carrying on the business; that the stoves, washing and drying
apparatus, and the appliances for heating smoothing irons are
in good condition, and that their use is not dangerous to the
surrounding property from fire, and that all proper precautions
have been taken to comply with the provisions of order No.
1617, defining ' the fire limits of the city and county of San Francisco and making regulations concerning the erection and use
of buildings in said city and county,' and of order No. 1670,
'prohibiting the kindling, maintenance, and use of open fires
in houses ' that he had a certificate from the health officer
that the same premises had been inspected'by him, and that he
found that they were properly and sufflciently drained, and
that all proper arrangements for carrying on the business of a
laundry, without injury to the sanitary condition of the neighborhood, had been complied with; that the city license of the
petitioner was in force and expired 'October 1st, 1885 ; and
that the petitioner applied to the board of supervisors, June
1st, 1885, for consent of said board to maintain and carry on
his laundry, but that said board, on July 1st, 1885, refused
said coxisent." It is also admitted to be true, as alleged in the
petition, that, on February 24, 1880, "there were about 320
laundries in the city and county of San Franeisco, of which.

YICK WO v. HOPKINS.
Statement of Facts.

about 240 were owned and cbnducted by subjects of China,
and of the whole number, viz., 320, about 310 were constructed
of wood, the same material that constitutes nine-tenths of the
houses in the city of San Francisco. The capital thus invested
by the subjects of China was not less than two hundred
thousand dollars, and they paid annually for rent, license,
taxes, gas, and water about one hundred and eighty thousand
dollars."
It was alleged in the petition, that "your petitioner and
more than one hundred and fifty of his countrymen have been
arrested upon the charge of carrying on business without having such special consent, while those who are not subjects of
China, and who are conducting eighty odd laundries under similar conditions, are left unmolested and free to enjoy the enhanced trade and profits arising from this hurtful and unfair
discrimination. The business of your petitioner, and of those
of his countrymen similarly situated, is greatly impaired, and
in many cases practically ruined by this system of oppression
to one kind of men and favoritism to all others."
The statement therein contained as to the arrest, &c., was admitted to be true, with the qualification only, that the eighty
odd laundries referred to are in wooden buildings without scaf-folds on the roofs.
It was also admitted "that petitioner and 20Q of his countrylnen similarly situated petitioned the board of supervisors
for permission to continue their business in the various houses
which they had been occupying and usin, for laundries for
more than twenty years, and such petitions were denied, and
all the petitions of those who were not Chinese, with one exception of Mrs. Mary Meagles, were granted."
By section 2 of article XI of the Constitution of California
it is provided that "aly county, city, town, or township may
make and enforce within its limits all such local, police, sanitary,
and other regulations as are not in conflict with general laws."
By section 74 of the Act of April 19, 1856, usually known as
the consolidation act, the board of supervisors is empowered,
among other things, "to provide by regulation for the prevention and summary removal of nuisances to public health, the

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

prevention of contagious diseases; ....
to prohibit the
erection of wooden buildings within any fixed limits where the
streets shall have been established and graded;

.

.

to

regulate the sale, storage, and use of gunpowder or other explosive or combustible materials and substances, and make all
needful regulations for protection against fire; to make such
regulations concerning the erection and use of buildings as
may be necessary for the safety of the inhabitants."
The Supreme Court of California, in the opinion pronouncing
the judgment in this case, said: "The board of supervisors,
under the several statutes conferring authority upon them, has
the power to prohibit or regulate all occupations which are
agahist good morals, contrary to public order and decency, or
dangerous to the public safety. Clothes washing is certainly
not opposed to good morals or subversive of public order or
decency, but when conducted in given localities it may be
highly dangerous to the public safety. Of this fact the supervisors are made the judges, and, having taken action in the
premises, we do not find that they have prohibited the establishment of laundries, but that they have, as they well might
do, regulated the places at which they should be established,
the character of the buildings in which they are to be maintained, etc. The process of washing is not prohibited by thus
regulating" the places at which and the surroundings by which
it must be exercised. The order No. 1569 and section 68 of
order No. 1587 are not in contrivenflon of coihmon right or
unjust, unequal, partial, or opljressive, in such sense as authorizes us in this proceeding to pronounce them invalid."
After answering the position taken in behalf of the petitioner,
that tke ordinances in question had been repealed, the court
added: "We have not deemed it necessary to discuss the question in the light of supposed infringement of petitioner's rights
under the Constitution of the United .States, for the reason that
we think the principles upon which contention on that head
can be based have in effect been set at rest by the cases of
Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, and Soon H.Ting v. Crowley,
113 U. S. 703." The-writ was accordingly discharged and the
prisoner remanded.

YICK WO v. HOPKINS.
Statement of Facts.

In the other case the .appellant, We Lee, petitioned for his
discharge from an alleged illegal imprisonment, upon a state of
facts shown upon the record, precisely similar to that in the
case of Yick Wo. In disposing of the application, the learned
Circuit Judge, Sawyer, in his opinion, 26 Fed. Rep. 471, after
quoting the ordinance in question, proceeded at length as
follows:
"Thus, in a territory some ten miles wide by fifteen or more
miles long, much of it still occupied as mere farming and
pasturage lands, and much of it unoccupied sand banks, in
many places without a building within a quarter or half a mile
of each other, including the isolated and almost wholly unoccupied Goat Island, the right to carry on this, when properly
guarded, harmless and necessary occupation, in a wooden
building, is not made to depend upon any prescribed conditions
giving a right to anybody complying with them, but upon the
consent or arbitrary will of the board of supervisors.. In threefourths of the territory covered by the ordinance there is no
more need of prohibiting or regulating laundries than if they
were located in any portion of the farming regions of the State.
Hitherto the regulation of laundries has been limited to the
thickly settled portions of the city. Why this unnecessary extension of the limits affected, if not designed to prevent the
establishment of laundries, after a compulsory removal from
their present locations, within practicable reach of the customers or their proprietors? And the uncontradicted petition
shows that all Chinese applications are, in fact, denied, and
those of Caucasians granted-thus, in fact, making the discriminations, in the administration of the ordinance, which its
terms permit. The fact that the right to give consent is reserved
in the ordinance shows that carrying on the laundry business
in wooden buildingi is not deemed of itself necessarily dangerous. It must be apparent to every well-informed mind that a
fire, properly guarded, for laundry purposes, in a wooden building, is just as necessary, and no more dangerous, than a fire
for cooking purposes or for warming a house. If the ordinance
under consideration is valid, then the board of supervisors can
pasi a valid ordinance preventing the maintenance, in a wooden

862

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

building, of a cooking stove, heating apparatus, or a restaurant,
-withinthe boundaries of the city and county of San Francisco,
without the consebt-fthat body, arbitrarily given or withheld,
as their prejudices br other motives may dictate. If it is competent for the board of supervisors to pass a valid ordinance prohibiting the inhabitants of San Francisco from following any ordinary, proper, and necessary calling witlin the limits'of the city
and county, except at its arbitrary and unregulated discretion and
special consent, and it can do so if this ordinance is valid, then
it seems to us that there has been a wide departure from the
principles that have'heretofore been supposed to guard and
protect the rights, property, and liberties'of the American people.
And if, by an ordinance, general in its terms and form, like.
the one in question, by reserving an.arbitrary discretion in the
enacting body to grant or deny permission to engage in a proper
and necessary calling, a discrimination against any class can bh
made in its execution, thereby evading and, in effe t,-rnllifing
the provisions of the National Consfitution, then the insertion
of provisions to guard the rights of every class and person in
that instrument was a vain and futile act. The effect of the
execution of this ordinance in the manner indicated in the
record would seem to be necessarily to close up the many
Chinese laundries now existing, or compel their owners to pull
down their present buildings and reconstruct of brick or stone,
or to drive them outside the city and county of San Francisco,
to the adjoining counties, beyond the convenient reach of customers,.either of which results would be little short of absolute
confiscation of the large amount of property shown to be now,
and to have been for a long time, invested in these occupations.
If this would not- be depriving such parties of their property
without due process of law, it would be difficult to say what
would effect that prohibited result. The necessary tendency,
if not the specific purpose, of this ordinance, and of enforcing
it in the manner indicated in the record, is to drive out of
business all the numerous small laundries, especially those
owned by Chinese, and give a monopoly of the business to the
large institutions established and carried on by means of large
associated Caucasian capital. If the facts appearing on the face

YICK. WO v. HOPKINS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the ordinance, on the petition and return, and admitted in the
case, and shown by the notorious public and municipal history of
the times, indicate a purpose to drive out the Chinese laundrymen, and not merely to regulate the business for the public safety,
does it not disclose a case of violation of the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the National Constitution, and of
the treaty between the United States and China, in more than
If this means prohibition of the occupaone particular? .
tion, and destruciion of the business and property of the Chinese laundrymen in San Francisco-and it seems to us this must
be the effect of executing the ordinance-and not merely the
proper regulation of the business, then there is discrimination
and a violation of other highly important rights secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment and the treaty. That it does mean
prohibition, as to the Chinese, it seems to us must be apparent
to every citizen of San Francisco. who has been here long
enough to be familiar with the cause of an active and aggressive branch of public opinion and of public notorious events.
'Can a court be blind to what must be necessarily known to
every intelligent person in the State? See AAhKow v. .unan,
5 Sawyer, 552, 560; parrow v. Strong, 3 Wall, 97, 104; Brown
v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37, 42."
But, in deference to the decision of the Supreme Court of
California in the case of Yick Wo, and contrary to his own
opinion as thus expressed, the circuit judge discharged the writ
and remanded the prisoner.
36. Hall AoAllieter, .Xr. 1. H. 'Fan Schaick, and .216.. D.

L.Smoot for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. A fred Clarke and Mr.H. G. Sieber8t for defendant in
error.
We claim that the city has power to adopt the section we
are examining under article XI, section 11 of the Constitution
"to make and enforce all such local police, sanitary and other
regulations as are not in c6nflict with general laws.'! Tbe police power of the State does extend to the .regulation of this
business by excluding it from certain limits, as shown by I% re

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

.7ieClain, 61 Cal. 436; In re C~in Fan, 60 Cal. 78; In re Ah
Sing, 59 Cal. 404; The 57augter-lol e Case8, 16 Wall. 36, 62,
et seq. ;'Ailtock v. Paige,77 Va. 386; In re -Le8ter, 77 Va. 663;
Commonwealth v. .erriam, 136 Mass. 433; Mulier v. Cor,mi8ionem, 89 N. C. 171; State v. .ayor, 15 Vroom (44 N. J7.
Law), 114; State v. Fay, 15 Yroom (44 N. J. Law), 47'4; Comemonwealth, v. Whielan, 134 Mass. 206; In re Liquor locationw,
13 R. I. 733; State v. Tarver, 11 Lea, 658.
Under our State constitution, the legislature is prohibited by
art. IV., see. 25, sub. 2, from exercising the local police power;
but the power which is denied to the legislature is vested by
art. XI., see. 11, in the municipal corporations throughout the
State. In re Stewart, 61 Cal. 374; In re .MXoynier, 65 Cal. 33;
In re Soon Hing, March 13, 1884, by Supreme Court in bank,
not reported; lit re TFoltem, 65 Cal. 269 ; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 T. S. 27; Soon 11ing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703.
The police power is indestructible and inalienable, and being (so far as the regulation of local matters) denied to the
legislature, it must reside in the municipalities. The sovereign
people have located this power in the municipalities, and it is
now too late to question its existence. See observations by
Taney, C. J., in Ohio Life -77. 6o. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416, 428.
In addition to the cases heretofore cited, we refer to the following as recent illustrations of the extent of the police power:
Butcherm. Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Foter v. .Kansas, 112 T. S. 201; .Iiwsouri Pacefw Railway v.
Hume, 115 U. S. 519.
Admitting for the sake of argument that the laundry of petitioner was not a fully developed common-law nuisance, we
say the State has power to regulate it, as was shown in Barie, v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27. The washing of Mr. Barbier
was not a nuisance, but it was regulated. See also, In re Delaney, 43 Cal. 478.
It has been held that "the State may construe her own laws."
Hall v. De ouir, 95 U. S. 504; 515. This is. what the State
has done. And because some other State (Maryland for instance, in Baltimore v. Radee7e, 49 Maryland, 217) has taken
a different view, it does not follow that the construction by the

YICK WO v. HOPK=NS.
Opinion of the Court.

California Courts ot their laws should be reversed. We do not
question the right of Maryland to make or administer her laws.
This decision was presented to the Supreme Court of California
in Yick Wo, the case at bar, and our court declined to follow
the Supreme Court of Maryland, and adhered to the contrary
rule which bad long been in force in our State. Ought we to
disregard the Supreme Court of California, and follow the Supreme Court of Maryland? Can this court reverse the Supreme
Court of California because it refuses to follow the Supreme
Court of Maryland and adheres to its own decisions? In re
Frazer, 51 Cal. 94; 1n re Johneon, 62 Cal 263.
No disguise will conceal the fact that there is a conflict of
authority upon the question we are examining, as will be seen
on inspection of a few of the decisions which treat the question
at bar.
.Decieion, redtrainingthe policepower of the State.--(1878).
Baltimore v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 217; (1882). July, In re
Quong.WVo, 7 Sawyer, 526, 531.
.DecWon8 a8ertingthe policepower of the State.-(1871), In
re Ruth, 32 Iowa, 250; (1871), T7hitten v. Covington, 43 Geo.
421; (1872), State v. Court, etc., 7 Vroom (36 N. J. Law), 72;
(1873), Groemch v. Stae, 42 Ind.. 547; (1873), State v. Ludington, 33 Wis. 107; (1875), 2?o]rbakerv. Jackson, 51 Mississippi,
735; (1876), ffanwa Pacific Railroad Co. v. Riley, 16 Kansas,
573; (1879), Eureka v. .,avi8, 21 Kansas, 578; (1881), Pleuler
v. State, 11 Neb. 547; (1883); State v. Brown, 19 Fla. 563.
The Fourteenth Amendment became a part of the Constitution July 28, 1868, and yet we find the States from that
time to this asserting and exercising this power.
Mr. JUsTicE MArwrEws delivered the opinion of the court.
Ii the case of the petitioner, brought here by writ of error
to the Supreme Court of California, our jurisdiction is limited
to the question, whether the plaintiff in error has been denied
a right in violation of the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United 5tates. The question whether his imprisonment is
illegal, under the constitution and laws. of the State, is not
open to us. And although that question might have been con-

OCTOBER TERM, 3885.
Opinion of the Court.

sidered in the Circuit Court in the application made to it, and
by this court on appeal from its order, yet judicial propriety is
best consulted by accepting the judgment of the State court
upon the points involved in that inquiry.
That, however, does not preclude this court from putting
upon the ordinances of the supervisors of the county and city
of San Francisco an independent construction; for the determination-of the question whether the proceedings under these
ordinances 'andin enforcement of them are in conflict with the
Constitution and laws of the United States, necessarily involves
the meaning of the ordinances, which, for that purpose, we are
required to ascertain and adjudge.
We are consequently constrained, at the outset, to differ
from the Supreme Court of California upon the real meaning
of the ordinances in question. That court considered these
ordinances as vesting in the board of supervisors a not unusual
discretion in granting or withholding their assent to the use of
wooden buildings as laundries, to be exercised in reference to
'the circumstances of each case, with a view to the protection
of the public against the dangers of fire. We are not able to
concur in that interpretation of the power conferred upon the
supervisors. There is nothing in the ordinances which points
to such a regulation of the business of keeping and conducting
laundries.- They seem intended to confer, and actually do
confer, not a discretion to be exercised upon a consideration of
the circumstances of each case, but a naked and arbitrary
power to give or withhold consent) not only as to places, but as
to persons. So that, if an applicant for such*consent, being in
every way a competent and qualified person, and having complied with every reasonable condition demanded by any public
interest, should, failing to obtain the requisite consent of the
supervisors to the prosecution of his business, apply for redress
by the judicial process of manrdamus,to require the supervisors
to consider and act upon his case, it would be a sufficient
answer for them to say that the law had conferred upon them
authority to withhold their asserit, without .reason. and without
responsibility. The. power given to them is not confided to
their discretion in the lgal ,sense of:tha. term, bit is granted

YICK WO v. HOPKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

to their mere will.

It is purely arbitrary, and acknowledges

neither guidance nor restraint.
This erroneous view of the ordinances in question led the Supreme Court of California into the further error of holding that
they were justified by the decisions of this court in the cases
of Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, and Soon iling v. Crowley, 113 U. S.703. In both of these cases the ordinance involved was simply a prohibition to carry on the washing and
ironing of clothes in public laundries and washhouses, within
certain prescribed limits of the city and county of San Francisco, from ten o'clock at night until six o'clock in the morning
of the following day. This provision was held to be purely a
police regulation, within the competency of any municipality
possessed of the ordinary powers belonging to such bodies; a
necessary measure of precaution in a city composed largely of
wooden buildings like San Francisco, in the application of which
there was no invidious discrimination against any one within
the'prescribed limits, all persons engaged in the same business
being treated alike, .and subject to the same restrictions, and
entitled to the same privileges, under similar conditions.
For these reasons, that ordinance was adjudged not to be
within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, which, it was said, in the
first case cited, "undoubtedly intended not only that there
should be no arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty, or arbitrary
spoliation of property, but that equal protection and security
should be given to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment of their personal and civil rights; that all persons should
be equally entitled to pursue their happiness and acquire and
enjoy property; that they should have like access to the courts
of the country for the protection of their persons and property,
the prevention and redress of wrongs, and the enforcement of
contracts; that no impediment should be interpose I to the pursuits of any one, except as applied to the same pursuits by
others under like circumstances; that no greater burdens should
be laid upon one than are laid upon others in the same calling
4and condition; and that in the administration of criminal justice no different or higher punishment should be imposed upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the- Court.

one than such as is prescribed to all for like offences." CCClass
legislation, discriminating against some and favoring others,
is prohibited, but legislation which, in carrying out a public
purpose, is limited in its application, if Within the sphere of its
operation it affects alike all persons similarly situated, is not
within the amendment."
The ordinance drawn in question in the present case is of a
very different character. It does not prescribe a rule and conditions for the regulation of the use of property for laundry
purposes, to which all similarly situated may conform. It
allows without restriction the use for such purposes of buildings
of brick or stone; but, as to wooden buildings, constituting
nearly all those in previous use, it divides the owners or occupiers into two classes, not having respect to their personal character and qualifications for the business, nor the situation and
nature and adaptation of the buildings themselves, but merely
by an arbitrary line, on one side of which are those who are
permitted to pursue their industry by the mere will and consent of the supervisors, and on the other those from whom
that consent is withheld, at their mere will and pleasure. And
both classes are alike only in this, that they are tenants at will,
under the supervisors, of their means of living. The ordinance,
therefore, also differs from the not unusual case, where discretion is lodged by law in public officers or bodies to grant or
withhold licenses to keep taverns, or places for the sale of spirituous liquors, and the like, when one of the conditions is that
the applicant shall be a fit person for the exercise of the privilege, because in such cases the fact of fitness is ubmitted to the
judgment of the officer, and calls for the exercise of a discretion of a judicial nature.
The rights of the petitioners, as affected by the proceedings
of which they complain, are not less, because they are aliens
and subjects of the Emperor of China. By the third article
of the treaty between this Government and that of China, concluded November 17, 1880, 22 Stat. 827, it is stipulated: "If

Chinese laborers, or Chinese of any other class, now either permanently or temporarily residing in the territory of the United
States, meet with ill treatment at the hands of any other per-

YICK WO v. HOPKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

sons, the Government of the United States will exert all its
powers to devise measures for their protection, and to secure

to them the same rights, privileges, immunities and exemptions
as may be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation, and to which they are entitled by treaty."
The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution is not confined to the protection of citizens. It says: "1Nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." These provisions are
universal in their application, to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of
color, or of nationality; and the equal protection of the laws
is a pledge of the protection of equal laws. It is accordingly
enacted by ยง 1977 of the Revised Statutes, that "all persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States shall have the same
right in every State and Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and to the full and
equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of
persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens and shall
be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses,
and exactions of every kind, and to no other." The questions
we have to consider and decide in these cases, therefore, are to
be treated as involving the rights of every citizen of the United
States equally with thos*e of the strangers and aliens who now
invoke the jurisdiction of the court.
It is contended on the part of the petitioners, that the ordinances for violations of which they are severally sentenced to
imprisonment, are void on their face, as being within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment; and, in the alternative, if not so, that they are void by reason of their administration, operating unequally, so as to punish in the present petitioners what is permitted to others as lawful, without any distinction of circumstances-an unjust and illegal discrimination,
it is claimed, which, though not made expressly by the ordinances is made postible by them.
When we consider the nature and the .theory of our institutions of government, the principles upon which they are supvoL. cxvM-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

posed to rest, and review the history of their development, we
are constrained to conclude that they do not mean to leave
room for the play and action of purely personal and arbitrary
.power. Sovereignty itself is, of course, not subject to law, for
it is the author and source of law; but in our system, while
sovereign powers are delegated to the agencies of government,
sovereignty itself remains with the people, by whom and for
whom all government exists and acts. And the law is the definition and limitation of power. It is, indeed, quite true, that
there must always be lodged somewhere, and in some person
or body, the authority of final decision; and in many cases
of mere administration the responsibility is purely political, no
appeal lying except to the ultimate tribunal of the public judgment, exercised either in the pressure of opinion or by means
of the suffrage. But the fundamental rights to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness,.considered as individual possessiohIs,
are.secured by those maxims of constitutional law which are
the monuments showing the victorious progress of the race in
securing to men the blessings of civilization under the reign of
just and equal laws, so that, in the famous language of the
Massachusetts Bill of Rights, the government of the commonwealth "may be a government of laws and not of men." For,
the very idea that one man may be compelled to hold his life,
or the means of living, or any material right essential to the
enjoyment of life, at the mere will of another, seems to be intolerable in any country where freedom prevails, as being the
essence of slavery itself.
There are many illustrations that might be given of this
truth, which would make manifest that it was self-evident in
the light of our system of jurisprudence. The case of the
political -franchise of voting is one. Though not regarded
strictly as a natural right, but as a privilege merely conceded
by society according to its will, under certain conditions,
nevertheless it is regarded as a fundamental political right,
because preservative of all rights.
In reference to that right, it was, declared by the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachus4tts, in Capen, v. Fo8ter, 12 Pick.
485, 489, in. the words of Chief Justice Shaw, "that in all

YICK WO

. HOPKINS.

Opinion of the Court:
cases where the constitution has conferred a political right or
privilege, and where the constitution has not particularly
designated the manner in which that right is to be exercised, it
is clearly within the just and constitutional limits of the legislative power, to adopt any reasonable and uniform regulations, in regard to the time and mode of exercising that right,
which are designed to secure and facilitate the exercise of such
right, in a prompt, orderly, and convenient manner;" never-'
thelesg, "such a construction would afford no warrant for such
an exercise of legislative power, as, under the pretence and
color of regulating,-should subvert or injuriously restrain the
right itself." It has accordingly been -held generally in ti'
States, that, whether the particular provisions of an act of
legislation, establishing means for ascertaining the qualifications of those entitled to vote, and making previous registration in lists of such, a condition precedent to the exercise of
the right, were or were not reasonable regulations, and accordingly valid or void, was always open to inquiry, as a judicial
question. See Daggett v. Hudson, 1 Western R~eporter, 789,"
decided by The Supreme Court of Ohio, where many of the
cases are collected; .3fonroev. Collins, 17 Ohio St. 665.
The same principle has been more freely extended to th
quasi-legislative acts of inferior municipal bodies, in respect to
which it is an ancient jurisdiction of judicial tribunals to pronounce upon the reasonablenesg and consequent validity of
their by-laws. In respect to these, it was the doctrine, that
every by-law must be redsonable, not inconsistent with the
chartev of the corporation, nor with any statute of Parliament,
nor with the general principles of the common law of the land,
particularly those having relation to the liberty of the subject
or the rights of private property. Dillon on Municipal 'Corporations, 3d ed., ยง 319, and cases cited in notes. Accordingly,
in the case of The Staie of Ohio ex rel. &o. v. .The Cin inhati
Gas-Light and Coke Cormpany, 18 Ohio St. 262, 300; an
ordinance of the city council purporting to fix the price to be
charged for gas, under an authority of law giving discretionary
power to do so, was held to be bad, if passed in bad faith, fixing an unreasonable price, for the fraudulent purpose of corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

pelling the gas company to submit to an unfair appraisement
of their works. And a similar question, very pertinent to the
one in the present cases, was decided by the Court of Appeals
of Maryland, in the case of the City of Baltimore v. Radecke,
49 Maryland, 217. In that case the defendant had erected
and used a steam engine, in the prosecution of his business as
a carpenter and box-maker in the city of Baltimore, under a
permit from the mayor and city council, which contained a
condition that the engine was "to be removed after six
months' notice to that effect from the mayor." After such
notice and refusal to conform to it, a suit was instituted to
recover the penalty provided by ie ordinance, to restrain the
prosecution of which a bill in equity was filed. The court
holding the opinion that "there may be a case in which an
ordinance, passed under grants of power like those we have
cited, is so clearly unreasonable, so arbitrary, oppressive, or
partial, as to raise the presumption that the legislature never
intended to confer the power to pass it, and^ to justify the
courts in interfering and setting it aside as a plain abuse of
authority," it proceeds to speak, with regard to the ordinance
in question, in relation to the use of steam engines, as follows:
"It does not profess to prescribe regulationsfor their construction, location, or use, nor require such precautions and safeguards to be provided by those who own and use them as are
best calculated to render them less dangerous to life and
property, nor does it restrain their use in box factories and
other similar establishments within certain defined limits, nor
in any other way attempt to promote their safety and security
without destroying their usefulness. But it commits to the
unrestrained will of a single public officer the power to notify
every person who now employs a steam engine in the prosecution of any business in the city of Baltimore, to cease to do so,
and, by providing compulsory fines for every day's disobedience
of such notice and order of removal, renders his power over the
use of steam in that city practically absolute, so that he may
prohibit its use altogether. But if he should not choose to do
this, but only to act in particular cases, there is nothing in the
ordinance to guide or control his action. It lays 'down no

YICK WO v. HOPKINS.
Opinion of the Court.
riules

by which its impartial execution can be secured or

partiality and oppression prevented. It is clear that giving
and enforcing these notices may, and quite likely will,- bring
ruin to the business of those against whom they are directed,
while others, from whom they are withheld, may be actually
benefited by what is thus done to their neighbors; and, wb-n
we remember that this action or non-action may proceed from
enmity or prejudice, from partisan zeal or an~imosity, from
favoritism and other improper influences and rmotives easy of
concealment and difficult to be detected and exposed, it becomes unnecessary to suggest or to comment upon the injustice
capable of being brought under cover of such a power, for that
becomes apparent tq every one who gives to the subject a
moment's consideration. In fact, an ordinance which clothes
a single individual with such power hardly falls within the!
dona n of law, and we are constrained to pronounce it inopera-,
tive and void."
This conclusion, and the reasoning on which it is based, are
deductions from the fac of the ordinance, as to its necessary
tendency and ultimate actual operation. In the present cases
we are not obliged to reason from the probable to the actual,
and pass upon the validity of the ordinances complained of, as
tried merely by the opportunities which their t~rms afford,
of unequal and unjust discrimination in their administration,
For the cases present the ordinances in actual operation, and
the facts shown establish an administration directed so exclusively against a particular class of persons as to warrant and
require the conclusion, that, whatever may have been the
intent of the ordinances as adopted, they are .applied by the
public authorities charged with their administration, and thus
representing the State itself, with a mind so unequal and
oppressive as to amount -Lo a practical denial by the State of
that equal protection of the laws which is secured to the
petitioners, as to all other persons, by the broad and benign
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. Though the law itself be fair on its face
and impartial in appearance, yet, if it is applied and administered by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

hand, so as practically to make unjust and illegal discriminations between persons in similar circumstances, material to
their rights, the denial of equal justice is still within the prohibition of the Constitution. This principle of interpretation
has been sanctioned by this court in Hender.on v. .aiYor
of -New York, 92 U. S. 259 ; Chy lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S.
275 ; .EparteVirginia, 100 U. S. 339; Yeal v. Delaware,103
U. S. 370; and Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 03.
The present cases, as shown by the facts disclosed in the
record, are within this class. It appears that both petitioners
have complied with every requisite, deemed by the law or by
the public officers charged with its administration, necessary
for the protection of neighboring property from fire, or as a
precaution against injury to the public health. No reason
whatever, except the will of the supervisors, is assigned why
they should not be permitted to carry on, in the accustomed
manner, their harmless and useful occupation, on which they depend for a livelihood. And while this consent of the supervisors
is withheld from them and from two hundred others who have
also petitioned, all of whom happen to be Chinese subjects,
eighty others, not Chinese subjects, are permitted to carry on
the same business under similiar conditions. The fact of this
discrimination is admitted. No reason for it is shown, and the
conclusion cannot be resisted, that no reason for it exists except hostility to the race and nationality to which the petitioners belong, and which in the eye of the law is not justified.
The discrimination is, therefore, illegal, and the publid administration which enforces it is a denial of the equal protection
of the laws and a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution. The imprisonment of the petitioners is,
therefore, illegal, and they must be discharged. To this end,
The judgment of the Supreme Court qf Californiain the case
of Tick Mo, and that of the Circuit Caurt of the United
Statesfor the Districtof Californiain the case of Wo Lee,
are severally reversed, and the cases remanded, each to the
per court, with directions to discharge the etitioners
from custody and imprisonment.

