OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

until after a final judgment, and, until such a judgment has been
rendered, the cause remains in the full judicial control of the
court in which it is pending. It was because of this that we
declined to take jurisdiction in Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S.
694, where the verdict was for more than $5000, but was reduced to that amount, by leave of the court, before the judgmbnt, which was for the reduced sum. It is true that our jurisdiction depends on the amount of the judgment, exclusive of
interest thereon, .hca[p v. Ban8, 2 How. 73 ; Western Union,
Telegraph Co. v. Rogers, 93 U. S. 565, 566; but here the interest accrued before judgment, and not after. In Th7e Patapsco, 12 Wall. 451, jurisdiction was taken in a case where
the decree was for $1982, "and interest from the date of the
report," which made more than $2000 duo at the time of the
decree, that being then the jurisdictional limit.
As the jurisdiction has once attached it cannot be defeated
by a waiver or release of the amount in excess of $5000.,
The motionto dismiss is denied.
MR. JUsTIoE FIEL took no part in this decision.

EX PAIRTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY &
Others.
ORIGINAL.
Argued October 12, 1886.-Decided November 1, 1888.

A District Court of the United States; in Admiralty, has no jurisdiction of a
petition by the owner of a steam vessel for'the trial of the question of his
liability for damage caused to buildings on land by fire alleged to have
been negligently communicated to them by the vessel, through sparks pro•ceeding from her smoke-stack, and for tlie limitation of such liability, it
existing, under § 4283 and 4284 Rev. Stat.

On the 14th of January, 1886, the Goodrich Transportation
Company, a-Wisconsin corporation, filed, in the District Court

EX PARTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

611

Statement of Facts.

of the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, a
petition for a limitation of its liability, as owner of the steamer
Oconto, claiming the benefit of the provisions of sections 4283
and 428-4 of the Revised Statutes. The substantial matters set
forth in the petition are these: The Oconto was on a voyage
from Chicago, Illinois, through Lake Michigan and Green
Bay, to the city of Green Bay, in Wisconsin, which she approached by entering the mouth of the Fox River. While she
was passing up thc river, opposite the city, on the 20th of
September, 1880, a fire broke out in a planing-mill which the
steamer had passed, and it spread to other buildings, about
sixty seven being. destroyed or injured, causing a damage of
not less than $100,000 to the buildings and property in them.
Such damage exceeds the value of the steamer, and of her
freight pending at the time of the fire, that value being about
$12,400. There was insurance against fire on some of the
buildings and property. The owners and insurers claimed
that the fire was negligently communicated to the planingmill from the steamer, and that the corporation was liable for
all the loss and damage occasioned by the fire. Some of the
owners sued it in State courts in Visconsin to recover damages,
by six suits, in which the Phenix Insurance Company, as insurer, was joined as a co-plaintiff. One of those suits had been
disposed of by a judgment in favor of the corporation. In
another, a judgment against the corporation, for $2570 and
costs, was rendered in March, 1885. An appeal from it by the
corporation to the Supreme 'Court of Wisconsin is pending.
The other four suits are pending. Other persons are threatening to sue the corporation by like suits. It denies its liability
for any loss or damage occasioned by the fire, and insists that
the fire did not originate from, or was not negligently communicated from the Oconto, but says that, if it is so liable, the fire
originated, and the losses and damages were occasioned, without the privity or knowledge of the corporation; and that it
desires as well to contest its liability, and the liability of the
vessel, for such losges and damages, as also to claim the benefit
of §g 4283, 428- Rev. Stat., and to limit its liability to the
vhlue of the vessel and her freight then pending. It offers to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

enter into a stipulation with sureties to pay into court tho
value of the vessel, and the amount of her pending freight,
whenever ordered so to do. The prayer of the petition is for
a decree that the corporation may have the benefit of such
statutory provisions; that the value of the vessel immediately
after the fire, and the amount of her freight then pending, be
appraised; that the corporation may enter into a stipulation to
pay such value and amount into court when required; that a
monition issue for the proof of claims; that a commissioner be
designated before whom claims shall be presented, and before
whom the corporation may appear and contest said claims,
and its liability on account of any loss or damage occasioned
by the fire; that if it shall appear that the corporation was
not liable for any such loss or damage it may be so finally
decreed, or, otherwise, that the moneys secured by the stipulation be divided pro rata among the claimants; and that the
prosecution of all the suits be restrained.
.Onthis petition an order to, show cause, returnable February
1, 1886, was made. The Phenix Insurance Company and the
other plaintiffs in the five pending suits filed an answer, setting forth that, with the exception of the insurance company,
they all were, and had been from before the fire, citizens of
Wisconsin; that the amount of the insurance the company
had made on the property covered by the five suits was $9700;
and that the value of the property so insured and uninsured,
belonging to the respondents, and partly insured in the insurance company, amounted to $28,000, with interest from the
date of the loss. The answer also contained these statements:
The property burned was situated on the shore of Fox River,
wholly in the body of the city of Green Bay, and at a great
distance from any navigable stream or other waters within the
jurisdiction of the United States. The'negligence of the owner
of the steamer in not having on her a contrivance to prevent
the escape of sparks and fire from her smoke-stack, and in starting her from her wharf with the exhaust on the inside of her
smoke-stack, within the city of Green Bay, caused the fire, the
shore being -covered With dry wooden buildings, and a heavy
wind blowing across the course of the vessel toward the shore,

EX PARTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

613

Argument against the Petitioner.

and her smoke-stack throwing out large quantities of sparks,
which were carried by the wind on to the- shore and set fire
to.a planing-mill, from which the flames spread to the other
buildings and property. The suits were all of them brought in
the fall of 1880. The answer alleged that the court ought not
to take jurisdiction of the petition, because the liability, if any,
accrued by reason of a tort committed on the land to real
estate in the body of a county and a State, -and not on any
navigable waters ot the United States; and that the matters
complained of were purely of common-law cognizance, and of
right triable by a jury, and not by a commissioner appointed
under the admiralty rules applicable to such proceedings.
The respondents moved to dismiss the petition for want of
jurisdiction, which motion was denied, and the court; on March
15, 1886, made an order appointing appraisers to appraise the
value of the steamer as it was on September 20, 1880, with the
value of her freight earned on the voyage she was on.
The Phenix Insurance Company and the other plaintiffs in
the five suits presented to this court a petition: for a writ of
prohibition to the judge of the District Court, prohibiting him
from proceeding to give the relief prayed for in the petition of
the owner of the vessel.
.3r. Pobert Rae, for petitioner.
Xr>. George G. Greene and Xr. Tamem G. Jenkins, opposing.
It is not disputed that the Oconto was a vessel within the act,
and that it was not within the exception of § 4289 Rev. Stat.
Mloore v.. American Tranmpo'tation Co., 24 How.1; Walker
v. Transportatio Co., 3 Wall. 150.
I. The statute embraces all liability for damage done by
the vessel without the knowledge or privity of the owner,
whether consummated on land or on water. NSorwieh Co. v.
Wright, 13 Wall. 104; Prov. & -. Y. Steamskhp Co. v., ill
.f'g Co., 109 U. S. 578; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; .Moore
v. Ameriean Tranajortaton Co., 24 How. 1. Maritime commerce is largely carried on by steam vessels. The danger of
firing property on shore, and otherwise injuring it, from negli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument against the Petitioner.

gence by or on the vessel is as frequent and imnminent as any
other danger fronr such negligence; and the consequences to
the owner by reason of liability therefor may be even more
-disastrous than from negligence in havigation on the water.
See Ryan v. .-Y. . Central Railway Co., 35 N,. Y. 210; Pennsylvania Railway Co. v. Eerr,62 Penn. St. 363. It having been
*settled that Congress has the constitutional power to limit the
common-law liability of the vessel-owner, and Congress having
exercised the power, on grounds of public policy, to conserve
great.public interests, the statute should be liberally construed
for the protection of those interests. Tracy v. Troy & Boston
Railway Co., 38 N. Y. 433; H~udler v. Golden, 36 N. Y. 446;
Prov. &,-.5 . . Steamship Co. v. Hfill M1f'g. Co., 109 U. S. 678;
giving unchecked operation to its. language, rather than
restricting it. :Restricting maxims of interpretation are employed to save cases from the operation of a statute that are
not within its reason; not to exclude cases that afe within both
its spirit and letter. TFoodworth v. State, 26 Ohio St. 196. We
have assumed that the loss or damage specified in the first two
specifications of liability in § 4283 was exclusively for maritime
tort of admiralty jurisdiction. . But it is doubtful whether a
claim for loss of life by collision, where the right of recovery
rests wholly on a State statute, is a maritime tort of admiralty
jurisdiction. Crapo v. Allen, 1 Sprague, 184:; Exp arte Gordon,
104 U. S. 515-519. Such loss or damage, however, has always
been held within the limitation of liability. Ifideed, the liability for loss of life by marine disaster was one of the principal
reasons for the statute. -foorev. American Trans. Co., 24
How. 1; The City qf Columbus, 22 Fed. Rep. 460 ; The AmsterdaM, 23 Fed. IRep. 112. . But whether injury causing death
is a marine tort of admiralty. jurisdiction or not, it is manifestly within the statute, because within both its letter and
reason.
Thus, whether we look to the language of the statute, its
object, or the effects of its application, its intent embraces the
case presented by this petition.
IL The statutory rule of limited liability thus construed is
a maritime rule or regulation, which courts of admiralty and

EX PARTE .PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

615

Argument against the Petitioner.

maritime jurisdiction have jurisdiction to enforce. It is contended in support of this writ that if Congress has power to
limit and has limited the liability of the owner for damage by
the vessel done on land as well as on water, without his privity
or knowledge, still the District Court has no jurisdiction of
this proceeding in admiralty, because the tort, not being maritime, is not of admiralty jurisdiction and cannot be brought
within such jurisdiction; and that hence our remedy must be
in some other tribunal.
But while the Federal courts cannot, under the Constitution, be given jurisdiction in admiralty of cases not inherently
of admiralty jurisdiction, the maritime law may be changed
by Congress. The Lottawana, 21 Wall. 558; Prov. & .2V. .
Steanzsh) 6o. v. Hill X anufacturing Co., 109 U. S. 578, 589.
And when a case arises under the maritime law as changed
or established by Congress it is a maritime case, although it
would not have been before the change, jurisdiction of which
belongs to the Federal courts as courts of admiralty and maritine jurisdiction. Sorwkch Trans. Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104:.
These citations are made to show not only that the maritime
rule of limited liability, by its language and reason, included
liability for all acts of the master and crew, in prosecuting the
voyage, but that its maritime character was derived fron its
object-the protection and promotion of shipping.' The rule
does not cease to be maritime when applied to liability for an
act of the captain and crew on the vessel, because the injury is
consummated on the land. Its application to such a case protects shipping just as much as would its application to liability
for the same act where the same amount of injury was consummated on the water. The rule being maritime, its enforcement may be in the District Court as a court of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction. See Bogart v. The Jhn Jay, 17 How.
399; n~e Guiding Star, 18 Fed. Rep. 263; The Brig Texford,
7 Fed. Rep. 674.
Error of the District Court in sustaining the foregoing positions does not war-rant a writ of prohibition; but the mistake,
if any, must be corrected on appeal. High Ex. Legal Rem.,
§ 762, 765, 767, 770, 772; .Kinlock v. Harvey, Harper, 508;

OCTOBER TERM, 1S86.
Opinion of the Court.

Washburn v. Phillips,2 Met. (Mass.) 296; Exparte Greene, 29
Ala.12. It will be denied in cases of doubt. In re Birch, 15 0.
B. 743; The Charkieh,L. R. 8 Q. B. 197; WVashlurn v. Phillips,
above cited. And where there is an adequate remedy by appeal. High Ex. Legal Rem., §§ 771,772; State v. Fourth Di8trict Court of Orleans,21 La. Ann. 123; Peoplo v. Circuit
Court WVayne Couniy, 11 Mich. 393; People v. .]farine Court
'New York, 36 Barb. 341; -x partc Peterson, 33 Ala. 74; Ex
parte lVarmouth, 17 Wall. 641; Xx parte Gordon, 104 U. S.
515; The Clharkieh, L. R. 8 Q. B. 197; Ex parte Smyth, 3 A.
& E. 719; State v. District Court Bamsey County, 26 Minn.
233; Ezxparte 1?oundtree, 51 Ala. 42. In this respect it is
like mandamus. High Ex. Legal Rem., §§ 188, 189; Ex parte
-Newman, 14 Wall. 152; State v. Braun, 31 Wis. 600, 606;
Exparte Braudlacht,2 Hill, 367; Xxparte Smith, 34 Ala. 455.
Such being the office of the w.rit and the limitations of its use
it ought not to be granted on this application. See also Hunt
v. Hunt, 72 N. Y. 217; Lange v. Benedict, 73 N. Y. 12; The
Tobias Watkins, 3 Pet. 191, 203 ;.Exeparte Parks,93 U. S. 18;
In re Yarbrough,110 U. S. 651; Bradley v. Fisher,13 Wall. 335. "
MR.JUSTICE BLATcOFOiD, after stating the facts as 'reported
aboye, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is provided by § 688 of the Revised Stdtutes, that this court
"shall have power to issue writs of prohibition tQ the District
.Courts, when proceeding as courts of admiralty ana maritime
jurisdiction." -This provision is taken from § 13 of the Act of
9eptcmber 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 80. The question to be determined
is, therefore, vhether the District Court has jurisdiction to'
entertain the proceeding in this case for the limitation of
liability.
Sectiobs 4283, 4284, and4.85 of the Revised Statutes provide
as follows:
"See. 4283. The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any
embezilement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any proparty, goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such
vessel; or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for
any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture, done, oc-

EX PARTE PHENTIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

617

Opinion of t6e Court.

casioned, or incurred, without the privity or knowledge of such
owner or owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or value
of the interest of such owner in such vessel, and her freight
then pending,
Sec. 4284. Whenever any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction is suffered by several freighters or owners of goods,
wares, merchandise, or any property whatever, on the same
voyage, and the whole value of the vessel, and her freight for
the voyage, is not sufficient to make compensation to each of
them, they shall receive compensation from the owner of the
vessel in proportion to their respective losses; and for that purpose the freighters and owners of the property, and the owner
of the vessel, or any of them, may take the appropriate proceedings in any court, for the purpose of apportioning the sum
for which the owner of the vessel may be liable among the
parties entitled thereto.
Sec. 4285. It shall be deemed a sufficient compliance on the
part of such owner with the requirements of this Title relating
to his liability for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction of any
property; goods, or merchandise, if he shall transfer his interest
in such vessel and freight, for the benefit of such claimants, to
a trustee, to be appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, to act as such trustee for the person who may prove to
be legally entitled thereto; from and after which transfer all
claims and proceedings against the owner shall cease."
The claim to a limitation of liability in the present case is
made under that clause of § 4283 which provides that "the liability of the owner of any vessel" "for any act, matter, or thing,
loss, damage or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred, without
the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no
case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such owner
in such vessel, and her freight then pending." That section
does not purport to confer any jurisdiction upon a District
Court. Section 4285, in providing for the transfer to a trustee
of the interest of the owner in the vessel and freight, provides
only that the trustee may "be appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction," leaving the question of such competency
to depend on other provisions of law.

S618

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Nothing is clearer than that, by the express adjudication of
this court, the District Court, as a court of admiralty, would
have no jurisdiction of a suit either in rein or irnpersonam,by
any one of the sufferers by the fire, to recover damages from the
vessel or her owner. It was so held in The Plymouth, 3 Wall.
20. In that case, a steam vessel anchored beside a wharf, in the
Chicago River, in navigable water, took fire'through the negligence of those in charge of her. The flames spread to the wharf
and buildings upon it. Their owners sued the owners of the
steam vessel in 1?ersonam, in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in admiralty, for the damage. That
cburt dismissed the libel for want of jurisdiction, and the Circuit Court affirmed the decree. On appeal by the libellant this
court affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court. The argument
in fivor of the jurisdiction is very fully given in the report.
It was urged that the vessel -was a maritime thing; that the
locality was maritinme, because the vessel was moored in navigable water; that the principal thing drew after it the incident,
although the damage was suffered on land; and that, under
the "rule of locality," "that, in cases of tort, the jurisdiction
depends on the locality of the act done, and that it must
be done .on navigable water," the locality of the act "embraced the entire space occupied by the agent and the object,
and the spatial distance passed over by the causal influence in
accomplishing the effect." But Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering
the unanimous opinion of this court, said that the true meaning of the rule of locality in cases of marine torts was, that the
wrong must have been committed wholly on navigable waters,
or, at least, the substance and consummation of the same must
have taken place upon those waters, to be within the admiralty
jurisdiction. In answer to the argument that the vessel which
communicated the fire was a maritime instrument, the court
said thatthe'jurisdiction did not depend on the wrong having
been committed on board the vessel, but on its having been
committed on navigable.waters; and that the substantial cause
of action, arising out of. the wrong, must be complete within
the locality on which the jurisdiction depended. It added: "The*
remedy for the injury belongs to the courts of common law."

EX PARTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

619

Opinion of the Court.

Under this authoritative decision, as the owners of the burned
propeity could not sue originally in the admiralty for their
damages, it is impossible to see how, by the present form of
proceeding, the owner of the steamer can give to the Admiralty Court jurisdiction to entertain the suits for the damage,
by a practical removal of them into the Admiralty Court. For
the petition of the owner of the vessel says that it desires as
well to contest its liability for the damage as to claim the
benefit of a limitation of liability, and it prays that it may be
allowed to contest in the Admiralty Court its liability for the
damage, and that, if it is not liable, there may be a decree to
that effect.
As there is no foundation in the general admiralty jurisdiction of the District Court, for its assumption of jurisdiction in
this case, and -none in the special provisions of the statute for
the limitation of liability, it is sought to uphold the jurisdiction
under the Rules in Admiralty promulgated by this court in
reference to the limitation of liability., The provisions of the
Revised Statutes on the subject of the limitation of liability
were taken from the Act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 635. There
is nothing in that act, nor in the corresponding enactments in
the Revised Statutes, in regard to the promulgation of any
rules by this court for procedure in the matter. The rules it
has made, Rules 54, 55, 56, and 57, are Rules in Admiralty,
promulgated May 6, 1872, 13 Wall. xii. They were announced
as "Supplementary Rules of'Practice in Admiralty, under the
Act of March 3, 1851, entitled ' An Act to limit the liability of
shipowners, and for other purposes.'" They are authoritatively
embodied in, and nombered as part of, the "Rules of Practice
for the Courts of the United States in Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, on the instance side of the court, in pursuance
of the Act of the 23d of August, 1842, chapter 188." The
authority given to this court by the Act of 1842, was in § 6,'
5 Stat. 518, and was in these words: "The Supreme Court
shall have full power and authority, from time to time,
to prescribe, and regulate, and alter, the forms of writs and
other process to be used and issued in the District and Circuit
Courts of the United States, and the forms and modes of fram-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

ing and filing libels, bills, answers, and other proceedings and
pleadhgs, in suits at common law or in admiralty and equity
pending in the said courts, and also the forms and modes of
taking and obtaining evidence, and of obtaining discovery, and
generally, the forms and modes of proceeding to obtain relief,
and the foruis and modes of drawing up, entering and enrolling decrees, and the forms and modes of proceeding before
trustees appointed by the court, and generally to regulate the
whole practice of the said courts, so as to prevent delays, and
to promote brevity and succinctness in all pleadings and proceedings therein, and to abolish all unnecessary costs and expenses in any suit therein." These provisions, as applied to
suits in admiralty in the District Courts, are to be found now,
with some variation, in §§ 862 and 917 of the Revised Statutes.
In § 862 it is enacted that "the mode of process in causes" "of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction shall be according to rules
now or hereafter prescribed by the Supreme Court, except as
herein specially provided." In § 917 the enactment is, that
"the Supreme Court shall have power to prescribe, from time
to time, and in any manner not inconsistent with any law of the
United States, the forms of writs and other process, the modes
of framing and filing proceedings and pleadings, of taking and
obtaining evidence, of obtaining discovery, of proceeding to obtain relief, of drawing up, entering and enrolling decrees, and
of proceeding before trustees appointed by the court, and generally to regulate the whole practice to be used, in suits in
equity or admiralty, by the Circuit and District Courts." The
addition, in § 917, of the words "in any manner not inconsistent
with any law of the United States," not found in § 6 of the Act
of 1842, is worthy of note, as bearing on the construction of
that' section, and of rules to be sustained under its provisions,
..though not implying that any power existed, under the act of
IS42, to make rules inconsi.ent with a law of the United
StafeA. So) too, by § 913 Rc , Stat. it is enacted, that "the
forms of mesne process, and the forms and modes of proceedino in suits-of-:euuity, and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, in the Circuit anl District Courts, shall be according to
the. prineiples.. rulel; and usages which belong to courts of

EX PARTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

621

Opinion of the Court.

equity and qdmiralty, riespectively, except when it is otherwise
provided by statute or by rules of court made in pursuance
thereof; but the same shall be subject to alteration and'
addition by the said courts, respectively, and to regulation by
the Supreme Court,.by rules prescribed, from time to time, to
any Circuit or District Court, not lnconsisten with the laws
of the United States." These words "not inconsistent with
the laws of the United States," are not found in the original
statutory provisions from which § 913 was taken. See Providence & fAew York Steam8hip Co. v. Hill lanufacturing Go.,
109 U. S. 578, 591-594.
In view of the decision made by this court at December
Term, 1865, in the case of The Plymoutht, it is not to be presumed that the six of the judges upon the bench when it was
made who were also upon the bench when the Rules of May
6th, 1872, were promulgated, intended that those rules should
contain anything in conflict with the decision in the case of
The Plymouth. Nor are those rules capable of any such construction. They are in these words:
"Supylementary I?ules of Practice in-Admiralty, under the
Act of . farch 3d, 1851, entitled 'An Act to limit the lability of 8hipownerm, and for olher.pu poses .
54. When any ship or vessel shall be libelled, or the owner
or owners thereof shall be sued, for any embezzlement, loss,
or destruction by the master, officers, mariners, passengers, or
any other person or persons, of any property, goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such ship or vessel, or for
any loss, damage or injury by collision, or for any act, matter,
or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture done, occasioned, or incurred, without the privity or knowledge of such owner or
owners, and he or they shall desire to claim the benefit of limitation of liability provided for in the third and fourth sections
of the said act above recited, the said owner or owners shall
and may file a libel or petition in the proper District Court
of the United States, as hereinafter specified, setting forth
the facts and circumstances on which such limitation of liability is claimed, and praying proper relief in that behalf; and
the eupon said court, having caused due appraisement to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

had of the amount or value of the interest of said owner or
owners, respectively, in such ship or vessel-, and her freight,
for the voyage, shall make an order for the payment of the
same into court, or for the giving of a stipulation with sureties for payment thereof into court whenever the same shall
be ordered; or, if the said owner or owners shall so elect, the
said court shall, without such appraisement, make an order for
the transfer by.him or them of his or their interest in such
vessel and freight, to a trustee to be appointed by the court
under the fourth. section of said act; and, upon compliance
with such order, the said court shall issue a monition against
all persons claiming damages for any such embezzlement, loss,
destruction, damage, or injury, citing them to appear before
the said court and make due proof of their respective claims
at or before a certain time to be named in said writ, not less
than three months from the issuing of the same; and public
notice of such monition shall be given as in other cases, and
such further notice served through the post-office, or other-wise, as the court, in its discretion, may direct; and the said
court shall, also, on the application of the said owner or owners, make an order to restrain the further prosecution of all
and, any suit or suits against said owner or owners in respect
of any such claim or claims.
55. Proof of all claims which shall be presented in pursuance
of said monition shall be made before a commissioner to be
designated by the court, subjec.t to the right of any person'
interested, to question or controvert the same; and, upon the
completion of said proofs, tlie commissioners shall make report
of the claims so proven,. and upon confirmation of said report,
after hearing any exceptions thereto, the moiieys paid or.
secured to be paid into court as aforesaid, or the proceeds of
said ship or vessel and freight (after payment of costs and
expenses), shall be dividedpro rata amangst the several claim
ants, in proportion to the amount of their respective claims,
duly proved and confirmed as aforesaia, saving, however, to
all parties any priority to which they may be legally entitled.
56. In the proceedings aforesaid, the said *owneror owners
shall be at liberty to boftest his. or their liability, or the lia-

EX PARTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY.

623'

Opinion of the Court.
bility of said ship or vessel for said embezzlement, loss, destruction, damage, or injury (independently of the limitation of
"liability claimed under said act), provided that, in his or their
libel or petition, he or they shall state the facts and circumstances by reason of which exemption from liability is claimed;
and any person or persons claiming damages as aforesaid, and
who shall have presented his or their claim to the commissioner under oath, shall and may answer such libel or petition,
and contest the right of the owner or owners of said ship or
vessel, either to an exemption :from liability, or to a limitation
of liability under the said act of Congress, or both.
57. The said libel or petition shall be filed and the said proceedings had in any District Court of the United States in
which said ship or vessel may be libelled to answer for any
such embezzlement, loss, destruction, damage, or injury; or, if
the said ship or vessel be not libelled, then in the District
Court for any district in which the said owner or owners
may be sued in that behalf. If the ship have already been
libelled and sold, the proceeds shall represent the same for the
purposes of these rules."
There is nothing in any of these rules which purports to
enlarge the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United
States as to subject matter. On the contrary, thgy exclude
any such construction, and leave that jurisdiction in admiralty,
within the bounds set for it by !he Constitution and statutes
and the judicial decisions under them. Rule 54 provides that
,when a vessel is libelled, or her owner is sued, he may file a
libel or petition for a limitation of liability " in the proper District Court of the United States, as hereinafter specified."
Rule 56 provides that in the proceeding the owner may contest his liability or that of the vessel, independently of the limitation of liability claimed, and that the opposing party may
contest the right of the owner either to an exemption from
liability or to a limitation of liability. What is the "proper
District Court" referred to in Rule 54 and contemplated by
Rule 56? It is the court, and only the court, mentioned in
Rule 57, namely, the Disti'ict Court in which the vessel is
libelled, or, if she is not libelled, then the District Court for

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

any district in which the owner "may be sued in that behalf."
There is nothing in these rules which sanctions' the taking of
jurisdiction by a-District Court on a petition under the rules,
where that court could not have had original cognizance in
admiralty of a suit in rem or in personam to recover for the
loss or damage involved.
* or do we find anything in any of the decisions of this
court on the subject of the limitation of liability, which supports the view that a District Court can take jurisdiction in
admiralty of a petition for a limitation of liability where it
would not have had cognizance in admiralty originally of the
cause of action involved. In ITorwich Co. v. TVright, 13 Wall.
104, the case which furnished the occasion for the making of
the rules, and which came before this court again in Thie City
of Norwich, 118 _U. S.468, the damage was occasioned by a
collision on navigable water between two vessels, and a fire
resulting from it on board of one of them. In all the other
cases in which this court has upheld proceedings for limitation
in a District Court, there was original admiralty jurisdiction
of the cause of action. In The Benefactor, 103 U. S..239, -the
cause of damage was a collision on the high seas, and the petition for limitation was filed in the same District Court in which
the offending vessel was libelled. In-Tie Scotland, 105 U. S.
25, and 118 U. S. 507, there was a like cause of action, and the
limitation was claimed by an answer to a libel in flersonam
in a District Court. In Ex parte Slayton, 105 U. S. 451, the
petition for limitation was filed in a District Court, by the
owner of a vessel which had foundered, to limit his liability
for the loss of goods carried, and for damage to another vessel
by a prior collision, he not having been first sued. ie transferred to a trustee appointed by the court his interest in the
vessel and in the freight pending. See The Alpena, 10 Bissell,
436. This court, being applied to for a writ of prohibition, refused to grant it. It held that tha-owner of a vessel may, before
he is sued, institute appropriatc proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to obtain a limitation of liability; that the
words "any court," .n § 4284, mean, "any court of competent jurisdiction;" and that, as the transfer had I--.en made

EX PARTE PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY,

625

Opinion of the Court.

and the freight money paid over to the trustee, the District
Court had juribdiction to apportion the fund. But it is to be
voted that the causes of action were, in fact, of admiralty jurisdictiop. In Providene & 2ew Fork Seanhip Co. v. Hill
.Manuyfaturing Co., 109 U. S. 578, the cause of action was a
loss, by the burning of a vessel, of- goods carried 'by her, and
the petition for limitation was filed in the District Court of the
district where the fire occurred and where the remnants of the
v-essel remained, and the contract of affreightment was of ad"miralty cognizance. In The G-reat Testern, 118 U. S. 520, the
cause of damago was a collision on the high seas, and the claim
to limitation was made in the answer in a suit in ersonam in
a District Court ill admiralty to recover for the damage.
We are brought, therefore, to the conclusion that there is
nothing in the Admiralty Rules prescribed by this court which
warrants the jurisdiction of the District Court in the present

case.
Our decision against the jurisdiction of the District Court is
made, without deciding whether or not the statutory limitation
of liability extends to the damages sustained by the fire in
question, so as to be enforceable in an appropriate court of
competent jurisdiction. The decision of that question is unnecessary for the disposition of this case.
It is contended that the mistake of the District Court must
be corrected by appeal, and that the case is not one for a writ
of prohibition. Where the case is within admiralty cognizance, the District Court may decide whether the party is
entitlea to the benefit of the statute, and a writ of prohibiticn
will not lie. But where, as here, the tort is not a maritime
tort, there can be no jurisdiction in the admiralty to determine
the issue of liability or that of limitation of liability. This
court refused a writ of prohibition where a suit in. rem was
brought against a vessel, in admiralty, in a District Court, to
enforce an alleged lien for wharfage, on the ground that a contract for the use of a wharf by a vessel was a maritime contract, and cognizable in the admiralty, and that, as a lien arose
in certain cases, the Admiralty Court was competent to decide
in the given case whether there was a lien. Exparte Easton,
VOL. cxvi-40

