-OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ARROWSMITH v. HARMOIMNG, Administratrix &
Others.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 0HIO.
Submitted April 26,1686.-Decided May 10, 188

This court has jurisdiction, in error, over a judgment of the Supreme Court of
a State when it necessarily involves the decision of the question, raised
in that appellate court for the first time, and not noticed in its opinion,
whether a statute of the State conflicts with the Constitution of the United

States.
When the legislature of a State enacts laws for the government of its courts
while exercising their respective jurisdictions, which, if followed, will furnish parties the necessary constitutional protection of life, liberty and property, it has performed its constitutional duty: and if one of its courts, acting within its jurisdiction, makes an erroneous decision in this respect, the
State cannot be deemed guilty of violating the Constitutional provision
that no State shall deprive a person of life, liberty or property without due

process of law.

This was a motion to dismiss, united with a motion to
affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Ar&. Will~im C. Cochran and 2Mr. Henry B. Harri8 for the
motions.
_21r. Henryg IVewbegin and J21r. B. B. _ingbury opposing.
TE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought in the Court of Common Pleas of
Defiance County, Ohio, by Dick E. Arrowsmith to recover
the possession of the principal .part of a certain 640 acres of
land, and the judgment turned on the ,validity of a sale of the
land by the guardian of Arrowsmith under an order of a probate court for that purpose. The case was tried without a jury,
and from the finding of facts it appears that all the proceedibgs
for the sale of the land were regular and in proper form, save
only that the court dispensed with the giving of a bond by the
guardian, under a certain requirement of the statute, "for the
Mr. CH EF JusTicE W

ARROWSMITH v. HARMONING.
Opinion of the Court.

faithful discharge of his duties, and the faithful payment and
accounting for of all moneys arising from such sale according to
law." The single question for determination was whether the
failure to furnish this bond rendered the sale void. The Court
of Common Pleas decided that it did not, and -gave judgment
accordingly. This judgment was afterwards affirmed by the
District Court on petition in error. The case was then taken
to the Supreme Court on another petition in error, where,
among others, the following error was assigned:
"3d. That by affirming the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas

.

.

.

by said District Court, this plaintiff in er-

ror was deprived of his right of trial by jury, contrary to the
provisions of the Constitution of this. State, and deprived of his
property without due process of law, contrary"to the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States."
This is the first time, so far as the 'ecord discloses, that even
the semblance of a Federal right was set up in the case, and even
is not easy to see on what ground ifcould be claimed that
here it"
Arrowsmith had been deprived of his property in violation of
the Constitution of the United States. It was for this reason,
perhaps, that the Supreme Court, while affirming the judgment
of the District Court, took no notice of this assignment of er:
ror in its opinion. The decision, however, necessarily involved
a denial of the right which was claimed in this way, and thus
we probably have technical jurisdiction. For this reason the
motion to dismiss must be denied, but the question on which our
jurisdiction depends was so. manifestly decided right, that the
case ought not to be held for further argument. It is not d6nied that the Probate Court had full and -complete jurisdiction
-of the proceeding to sell the land. The statute under which the
court acted, would, if, followed, have furnished Arrowsmith all
the protection which had been guaranteed to him by the Constitution of the United States. The bond in question was matter of procedure only, and if it ought to have been required the
court erred in ordering the sale without having first caused it
to be filed and approved. At most, this was an error of judgment in the court. The constitutional provision is, "nor shall
any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property with-

