OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

out due process of law." Certainly a State cannot be deemed
guilty of a violation of this constitutional obligation simply
because one of its courts, while acting within its jurisdiction,
has made an erroneous decision. The legislature of a State
performs its whole duty under the Constitution in this particular when it provides a law for the government of its courts
while exercising their respective jurisdictions, which,'if followed,
will furnish the parties the necessary constitutional protection.
All after that pertains to the courts, and the parties are left to
the appropriate remedies for the correction of errors in judicial
proceedings.
The motion to dismiss is denied, and that to affirm is granted.
Afflrmed.

IRON SILVER MIN ING COMPANY v. EL:GIN MINTING & SMELTING COMPANY & Others.
ERROR TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE 17NITED STATES FOR TrE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued M.tarch 26, 29, 1886.-Decided April 26, 1886.

Under sections 2320, 2322. and 2324 of the Revised Statutes, the surface side
lines of a mining location on a mineral vein, lode, or ledge, extended downward vertically, determine the extent of the claim, except when, in its descent, the vein passes outside of such surface side lines, and then the outside portions of the vein must lie between vertical planes drawn downward
through the end lines of the surface -location and continued in their own
direction; and the parallelism of such end lines is essential to the existence
of any right in the locator to follow the vein outside of vertical planes
drawn through the side lines.

This was an action to recover possession of certain mining
ground in Lake County, Colorado. Th6 plaintiffs in the court
below, the defendants in error here, asserted title to the premises under a patent of the United States for what was lown
as the "Gilt Edge Claim," of which they were a part. In the
original complaint they asserted title by conveyance from the

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. ELGIN MINING CO.

197

Statement of Facts.

original locators. A patent to them having -been subsequently
granted, they filed an amended complaint setting up its issue,
and that it conveyed to them a fee simple title.
The complaint averred that the defendant, the Iron Silver
Mining Company, on the 25th of June, 1882, by means of
drifts inclines and tunnels, entered without right upon a portion of the Gilt Edge claim, Wvhich it had since wrongfully
withheld from the plaintiffs to their damage of $50,000; and
that it had excavated, carried away, and converted to its own
use, since such entry, gold, silver, and lead ores belonging to
them, of the value of $50,000. They, therefore, prayed judgment for the premises and damages for their wrongful detention, and fbr the ores taken.
The defendant in its answer denied the several allegations
of the complaint, and set up as an affirmative defence that,
under a patent of the United States, bearing date May 24, 1877,
it was the owner in fee, and entitled to, the possession of a
surface lode mining claim also situated in Lake County, Colorado, called the "Stone Claim," containing nine acres and
-go of an acre of land, more or less, and of a vein, lode, or ledge
therein, extending the length of the claim from north to south
1500 feet thrdughout its entire depth, although it entered adjoining lands; that the vein, lode, or ledge contained iron, lead,
and silver in large quantities; that the top apex and outcrop
of it were found in the surface claim throughout its entire extent; that its true strike was north and south, with a dip to
the east at an angle of fifteen degrees below the plane of the
horizon ; that the vein, lode, or ledge on its dip, within vertical
planes drawn downward, with its end lines continued in their
own direction, that is, in the direction of the dip, passed
through and beyond the east vertical side line of the surface
claim and location into and under the Gilt Edge surface claim.
And the defendant admitted that underneath the surface of
the Gilt Edge claim it had followed and iined upon the Stone
vein, lode, or ledge, and averred that, by reason of the facts
above set forth, it had the right so to do, and denied that it
had otherwise interfered with the Gilt Edge claim or any part
of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement- of Facts.

The plaintiffs in their reply denied the material allegations
of the answer. By stipulation the case was tried by the court
without the intervention of a jury. On the trial the plaintiffs
produced in evidence a patent of the United States to them for
the Gilt Edge claim, in the usual form of patents for lode
mining claims, and the defendant admitted that they were
invested with the title to the property which the patent conveyed; that it had entered underneath the surface of that
claim at a point east of the Stone surface claim; and was engaged in mining and in carrying away lead and silver ores
when the action was commenced.
It was agreed that plat "A" [see page 199] correctly represented the shape and relative positions of the Gilt Edge
mining claim and of the Stone mining clain, and that the lines
on the figures of the Stone claim, from No. 5 to 6 and from
1 to 14, were the two end lines of the surface claim, so called
by the locator thereof, and in the plat accompanying the application for the patent.
It was also agreed that plat "B" [see page 200] was a correct copy of the plat of the Gilt Edge claim contained in the
patent thereof, which also showed its relative position to the
Stone claim, the latter being marked Sur. No. 217.
And thereupon the plaintiffs rested. The defendant then
introduced in evidence a patent for the Stone claim, bearing
date May 24, 1877, issued to one Alvinus B. Wood; and it was
admitted that, by divers mesne conveyances, the defendant
held title in fee to the premises described in it.
The patent gave a full and minute description by metes and
bounds of the surface claim, containing nine acres and Yu of
an acre of land, more or less, and embracing 1500 linear feet of
the Stone lode along the course thereof. Its granting clause
was as follows:
"lNow, know ye that the-United States of America, in consideration of the premises and in conformity with the said Revised Statutes of the United States, have given and granted,
and by these presents do give and grant, unto the said Alvinus
B. Wood, and to his heirs and assigns, -the said mining premises hereinbefore described as lot No. 217, embracing a portion

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. ELGIN MINING CO.
Statement of Facts.

Flatt _.j :

,Joate, 2'

e ,-,.Z

199

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

',YectJ0 .2~D.S~R.8O.1K

A
Co77~J. w~

k~'0 ~

~ 7.97

~AGae-27n~7L.

of the unsurveyed public domain. with the exclusive right of
possession and enjoyment of all the land included within-the
exterior lines of said survey not herein expressly excepted from
these presents, and of fifteen hundred (1500) linear feet of the
said Stone vein, lode, ledge, or deposit, for the length hereinbefore described, throughout its entire depth, although it may enter the land adjoining, and also of all other veins, lodes, ledges,
or deposits, throughout their entire depth, the tops or apexes

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. ELGIN M=NING CO.

201

Statement of Facts.

of which lie inside the exterior lines of said survey at the surface extended downward vertically, although such veins, lodes,
ledges, or deposits, in their downward course, may so far depart from a perpendicular as to extend outside the vertical side
lines of said survey: ProvidedZ, That the right-of possession
hereby granted to such outside parts of said veins, lodes, ledges,
or deposits, shall be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downward through the end lines
qf said survey at the surface, so continued in their own direction that such vertical planes will intersect such 6xterior parts
of said veins, lodes, ledges, or deposits: Andprovidedfurther,
That nothing in this conveyance shall authorize the grantee
herein, his heirs or assigns, to enter upon the surface of a mining claim owned or possessed by another: To-have and to hold.
said mining premises, together with all the rights, privileges,
immunities, and appurtenanes, of whatsoever nature, there-'
unto belonging, unto the said Alvinus B. Wood, and to his
heirs and assigns, forever, subject, nevertheless, to the following conditions and stipulations:
"First. That the grant hereby made is restricted to the land
hereinbefore described as lot No. 217, with fifteen hundred
(1500) linear feet of the Stone vein, lode, ledge, or deposit for
the length aforesaid, throughout its entire depth as aforesaid,
together with all other veins, lodes, ledges, or deposits, throughout their entire depths as aforesaid, the tops or apexes of which
lie inside the exterior lines -ofsaid survey'
"Second. That the premises hereby conveyed, with the exception of the surfabe, may be entered by the proprietor of any
other vein, lode, ledge, or deposit, the top or apex of which lies
outside the exterior limits of said survey, should the same in its
downward course be found to penetrate, intersect, extend into,
or underlie the premises hereby granted, for the purpose of
extracting and removing the ore from such other vein, lode,
ledge, or deposit.
"Third. That the premises hereby conveyed shall be held
subject to any vested and accrued water-rights for mining,
agricultural, manufacturing, or .other purposes, and rights to
ditches and reservoirs used in connection with such water-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

rights as may be recognized and acknowledged by the local
laws, customs, and decisions of courts.
"Fourth. That in the absence of necessary legislation by
Congress the legislature of Colorado may provide rules for
working the mining claim or premises hereby granted, involving easements, drainage, and other necessary means to its complete development."
The defendant then offered to prove(1) That the Stone vein, lode, or ledge mentioned in the
patent was a vein, lode, or ledge of rock in place bearing iron;
lead, and silver in large quantities, and was valuable on account
thereof.
(2) That the top, apex, and outcrop of the 'vein, lode, or ledge
existed, and were found in the Stone surface claim through its
entire extent from north to south, between walls of rock in
place, a limestone foot wall, and a porphyry hanging wall.
(3) That the true strike of the vein, lode, or ledge was north
and south, and had a dip to the east at an angle of 150 below
the plane of the-horizon.
. (4) That the vein, lode, or ledge, on its dip within vertical
planes drawn downward through the end lines of. the vein,
lode, or ledge, so existing and found within the Stone surface
mining claim, and continued in their own direction, viz., in the
direction of the dip of the vein, lode, or ledge, passed through,
out of, and beyond the east vertical side line of the Stone surface claim and location into lands adjoining, to wit, into.and
under the said Gilt Edge surface claim.
(5) That while the defendant admitted that underneath the
surface of the Gilt Edge surface claim it had -followed and
mined in and upon the Stone vein, lode, or ledge, by reason of
the facts and premises above set forth, it had a right so to do,
and that it had not otherwise, in any way interfered with said
Gilt Edge claim, or any part thereof.
To which plaintiffs objected, on the ground that the proffered proof would not be a defence to the action nor tend to
establish a defence thereto, and that by reason of the surface
form or shape of the Stone claim its owners had no right under
the laws of the United States or otherwise to follow the lode

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. ELGIN MINING CO.

203

Statement of Facts.

alleged to exist therein. in its downward course beyond the
lines of the claim and into plaintiffs' claim; and that- no part
of the Gilt Edge claim or the mineral or lode withiijt.was
within vertical planes drawn downward through, the end linhes
of the Stone claim and continued indefinitely in their own
direction.
The court sustained the objection and excluded the bvidence
offered, to which ruling the defendant excepted.
The following diagram, showing the shape of the Stone
claim, its exterior lines, its- center line, and the line of the
apex of the vein, as alleged by the defendant, was also put in
evidence:

SciZe. 200feetlf1n

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of thb Court.

Another diagram of the Stone claim Was introduced in evidence, but as it was similar to the one above, with the exception
of the lines showing the course of the apex, the direction of
the strike and the dip of the vein, it is not important to exhibit
it in this statement.
No other evidence was offered. The court found the issues
for the plaintiffs, and judgment was entered in their favor, to
review which the case was brought here.
.M'. TValter H. Smith and iLr. G. G. Syme8 for plaintiff in
error.
.M. T. X Patterson,with whom was XrA. C. S. Thomas on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court:
The question presented for our decision is one of great interest to miners on the public lands, and with respect to it much
difference of opinion exists. This difference has arisen from a
consideration, on the one hand, of what would properly be
called the true end lines of .a claim upon a lode of a specified
len gth and width, after it has been opened by explorations, and
it5 general course and direction are seen; and a consideration,
on the other band, of the statute requiring the location of a
claim to be distinctly marked on the ground, so that its boundaries may be readily traced. Such location often precedes any
extended explorations, and is, therefore, made without accurate
knowledge of the course and direction of the vein. When a
vein has been discovered the rules of miners, and the legislative
regulations of mining States and Territories, generally allow
some specified time for explorations before the location is
definitely makked. But miners discovering a lode are sometimes in such haste to locate their claim, and mark its extent
and boundaries on the surface, that they omit to make sufficient explorations to guide them aright in measuring the
ground and fixing its end lines. Hence efforts are not infre_luently made to change those lines when the true course and

IRON SILVER MIYING CO. v. ELGIN MINING CO.

205

Opinion of the Court.

direction of the vein are ascertained by subsequent developments.
The framers of the statute of 1872 evidently proceeded upon
the theory that a claim o4 a lode, following its outcroppings
on the surface for the distance allowed, with a definite extension on each side of the niiddle of the vein, would generally
take the form of a parallelogram. It provided that the length
of a claim, subsequently located, whether by one or more persons, should not exceed fifteen hundred feet; that its extension on
each side of the middle of the vein at the surface should not exceed three hundred feet; and that its end lines should be parallel
to each other. Rev. Stat. ยง 2320. A section of the lode within
vertical planes drawn downward through the lines marked on
the surface was designed as the grant to the original locator;
but, as the vein in its downward course might deviate from a
perpendicular and pass out of the side lines, the right was conferred to follow it outside of them, but within planes through
the end lines drawn vertically downward, and continued in
their own direction. The language of that statute, as carried
into the Revised Statutes, is as follows:
"The locators of all mining locations heretofore made, or
which shall hereafter be made, on any mineral vein, lode, or
ledge, situated on the public domain, their heirs and assigfis,
where no adverse claim exists on the tenth day of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, so long as they comply
with the laws of the United States, and with State, territorial,
and local regulations not in conflict with the laws of the United
States governing their possessory title, shall have the exclusive
right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included
within the lines of their locations, and of all veins, lodes, and
ledges, throughout the entire depth, the top or apex of which
lies inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically,
although such veins, lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a
perpendicular in their course downward as to extend outside
the vertical side lines of such surface locations. But their right
of possession to such outside parts of such veins or lelges shall
be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical
planes drawn downward, as above described, through the end

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

lines of their locations, so continued in their own direction that
such planes will intersect such exterior parts of such veins or
ledges. And nothing in this section shall authorize the locator
.or possessor of a vein or lode which extends in its downward
course beyond the vertical lines of his claim to enter 12pon the
surface of a claim owned or possessed by another." :Rev. Stat.

ยง2322.

This section appears sufficiently clear on its face. There is
no patent or latent ambiguity in it. The locators have the exclusive right of possessiop and enjoyment of "all the surface
included within the lines of their locations," 'and the location,
by another section, must be distinctly marked on the ground
so that its boundaries can be readily traced. Rev. Stat. ยง 2324.
They have also the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment
"of all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their entire depth,
the top or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically, although such veins, lodes, or
ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their course
downward as to extend outside the vertical side lines of said
surface locations." The surface side lines extended downward
vertically determine the extent of.the claim, except when in its
descent the vein passes outside of them, and the outside portions
are to lie between vertical planes drawn downward through the
end lines. This means the end lines of the surface location, for
al locations are measured on the surface.
The difficulty arising from the section grows out of its application to claims where the course of the vein is so variant
froiji a straight line that the end lines of the surface location
are not parallel, or, if so, are not at a right-angle to the course
,of the vein. This difficulty must often occur where the lines
of the surface location are made to control the direction of the
vertical planes. The ronedy must be found, until the statute
is changed, in carefully: making the location, and in postponing
the marking of its boundaries until explorations can be made
to ascertain, as near as bossible, the course and direction of the
veifi. Iu.Colorado The statute allows for this purpose sixty
,daysafter notice of the discovery of the lode. Then the locatidomust be distinctly mnarked on the ground, and thirty days

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. ELGIN MINING CO.

207

Opinion of the Court.
thereafter are given for the preparation of the proper certificate
of location to be recorded. Er/q'dtv. Boaro, 113 U. S. 527,
533. Even then, with all the care possible, the end lines marked
on the surface will often vary greatly from a right-angle to the
true course of the vein. But whatever inconvenience or hardship may thus happen, it is -better that the boundary planes
should be definitely determined by the lines of the surface location, than that they should be subject to perpetual readjustment
according to subterranean developments made by mine workings. Such readjustment at every discovery of a change in the
course of the vein would create great uncertainty in titles to
mining claims. The rule, whatever hardship it may work in
particular cases, should be settled, and thus prevent, as far as
practicable, such uncertainty.
If the first locator will not or cannot make the explorations
necessary to ascertain the true course of the vein, and draws
his end lines ignorantly, he must bear the consequences. He
can only assert a lateral right to so much of his vein as lies between vertical planes drawn through those lires. Junior locators will not be prejudiced thereby, though subsequent explorations may show that he erred in his location.
The provision of the statute, that the locator is entitled
throughout their entire depth to all the veins, lodes, or ledges,
the top-or apex of which lies inside of the surface lines of his
location, tends strongly to show that the end lines marked on
the ground must control. ft often happens that the top or
apex of more that one vein lies within such surface lines, and
the veins may have different courses and dips, yet his right to
follow them outside of the side lines of the location must be
bounded by planes drawn vertically through the same end
lines. The planes of the end lines cannot be drawn at a
right angle to the courses of all the veins if they are not
identical.
It is also a fact of importance, that the Land Department
has, since the act of 1S72, followed the end lines as marked on
the surface, and has limited the extra lateral right of patentees
by vertical planes drawn down through such end lines; as in
the patent to Wood in this case. Any decision that the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

partment erred in that respect, and that the rlghts of the
patentees were different, would disturb titles derived from such
patents, and lead to great confusion and litigation. If it is
expedient to change the rule, legislative action should be invoked, as it would operate only in the future; and not judicial
decision which would affect past cases as well.
This view of the controlling effect of the end lines of the
surface location is also sustained by the decision of this court
in the Flagstaff case. fining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 U. S., 463, 470.
There'the court said that "the most practicable rule is to regard the course of the vein as that which is indicated by surface outcrop, or surface explorations and workings," and that
"it is on this line that claims will naturally be laid, whatever
be the character of the surface, whether level or inclined,"
and that the end lines of the claim, properly so called, "are
those which are crosswise of the general course of the vein on
the surface." The court suggested that the law might be imperfect in this respect, and that perhaps the true course of the
vein should correspond with its stike or the line of a level run
through it; but it added that this "can rarely be ascertained
until considerable work has been done, and after claims and
locations have become fixed."
Under the act of 1866, 14 Stat., 251, pardllelism in the end
lines of a surface location was not required, but where a location has been made ;ince the act of 1872, such parallelism is
essential to the existence of any right in the locator or patentee
to follow his vein outside of the vertical planes drawn through
the side lines. His lateral right by the statute is confined to
such portion, of the vein as lies between such planes drawn
through the end lines and extended in their own direction, that
is, between parallel vertical planes. It can embrace no other
portion.
The exterior lines of the Stone claim form a curved figure
somewhat in the shape of a '.orseshoe, and its end lines are-not
and cannot be made parallel. What are marked on the plat
as end lines are not such. The one between numbers 5 and 6
is a side line. The draughtsman or surveyor seems to have
hit upon two parallel lines of his nine-sided figure, and ap-

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. ELGIN AINING CO.

209

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J., Bradley, 3

parently for no other reason than their parallelism called them
end lines.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the objection that, by
reason of the surface form of the Stone claim, the defendant
could not follow the lode existing therein in its downward
course beyond the lines of the claim, was well taken to the
offered proof. Besides, if the lines marked as end lines on the
plat of that claim can be regarded as such lines of the location,
no part of the Gilt Edge claim falls within vertical planes
drawn down through those lines continued in their own direction. In either view of the location of the Stone claim, the
rejected proof would have established no defence. The premises in controversy are admitted to be under the surface lines
of the Gilt Edge claim eastward from the defendant's claim,
and the plaintiffs were therefore entitled to recover them.
Judgment aflq'med.
MR. CHIEF JUsTicE WArE,
BRA LFY, dissenting.

with whom concurred RM.
JusTiCE

I cannot agree to this judgment. In my opinion the end
lines of a mining location are to be projected parallel to each
other and crosswise of the general course of the vein within
the surface limits of the location, and whenever the top or
apex of the vein is found within the surface lines extended
vertically downwards, the vein may be followed outside of the
vertical side lines. The end lines are not necessarily those
which are marked on the map as such, but they may be projected at the extreme points where the apex leaves the location
as marked on the surface.
MR. JUsTicE GRAY did not hear the argument nor take any

part in the decision of this case.
VOL. cXvII-14

