FRANCIS v. FLINN.
Statgment of Facts.

States, because it has never been denied, and because.it 6lone
can enforce its laws on all the tribes.
We answer the questions propounded to us, that the 9th section of the act of -March,1885, is a valid law in both its
branehes, and that the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Diteict of California has jurisdiction of the
ofence charged in the indictment in this case.

FRANCIS & Others v. FLINN'.
A'PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 20, 1886.-Decided May 10,1888.

A bill in equity which alleges that complainant, a citizen of Florida, is part
owner with other parties named, citizens of Louisiana, of a steam pilot.boat,
on which are employed branch pilots duly licensed; that respondents had'
confederated together to destroy said business and property by publications.
in newspapers, by instituting suits, by seeking injunctions, and in divers
other ways; and that they had agreed together not to do business as branchpilots with any persons other than those included in the "confederation "'
-and which prays for a perpetual inj unction to restrain the defendant from
interfering with the rights of the complainant, his pilot-boat and his busi-.
ness-furnishes no ground for the interposition of a court of equity, as.
complainant has adequate remedies at law for each ai'd all the acts complained of.

This was a suit in equity to restrain the defendants [appellants in this court] from doing certain things charged against
them intended to injure the plaintiff, and destroy his property
and business. The bill alleged that he was a citizen of Florida,
and brought the bill against Richard Francis, individually and
as agent for others, and W. T. Levine.and thirty-seven others
'who were named, and who were citizens of Louisiana. It set.
forth that 'he was one eighth owner of the steam pilot-boat
Mary Lee, a decked vessel of over fifty tons burden; that his
interest exceeded the value of $5000; that she was built, and
VOL. CXVIII-25

.386

OCTOBER TERM1,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

was manned and equipped, and in all respects fitted for the
purposes of a pilot-boat, and for some months had been, and
was then fised as a pilot-boat at South Pass, known as the jetties,"at one, of the mouths of the Mississippi River; that by act
of Congress of June 1,1874, the pass, or channel, had been since
the beginning of the construction of the jetties under control
of the Secretary of War; that the. government had caused the
obstructions formerly existing in the channel, known as the
bar, to be removed; that the pass was subject to (no other
regulations than those prescribed by the Secretary; that the
plaintiff in his business of pilot had, in all respects, conformed
to thdm; that the captain and,other officers of his vessel -were
duly commissioned under the laws of the United States; that
certain persons named Pliny Cox, George A. Falconi, and
Hiram Follett were on board as branch pilots, and they acted
as pilots -onvessels inward and outward bound to and from
the sea through the South Pass,. and, as part'owners of the
pilot-boat, they were licensed under the laws of the United
States as branch pilots for the port of New Orleans; and that
as such they were entitled to pilot vessels from the sea to the
Mississippi River, and from the river to the sea.
The bill further alleged that, under.the laws of the United
States relating to the channel known as the jetties, and to the
vessels ind steamers, of the character of the Mary Lee, the
plaintiff, as owner, had a right to have the captain and the
pilots Cox, Falconi, and Follett protected in the business of
piloting through the channel to and from the sea, and was entitled to a decree recognizing his right to render services with
his pilot-boat to all vessels to and from the sea through the
said pass and channel whenever any one of such branch pilots
employed by him should be on, board of such vessel, inward
and outward bound, drawing more than. twelve feet of water;
and, that any law of Louisiana, or any rules or regulations
made by the defendants in contravention of the laws of Congress and the regulations of the Secretary of War, were null
and void.
The bill also alleged thdt the defendants had combined and
confederated together for the purpose of destroying the busi-

FRANCIS v. FLINN.
Statenient of Fets.

ness and property of the plaintiff by publications in the 'iews-.
papers and by divers and sundry suits, and by injunctiongand
"in various other and divers ways," and had instituted suit
against J. W. Black, George A. Shelton, Hiram Follett, Pliny
Cox and George A. Follett, all of whom were part owners of
the Mary Lee, and three of whom were branch pilots for the,
port of New Orleans.
The bill mentioned three suits thus brought, one in the United States Circuit Court and two in the State courts, and alleged
that they were instituted at the instance of the defendants, and
that in them they had'charged that Black and others were
towing vessels drawing more than twelve feet of water through
tha jetties, without branch pilots of the port of Nevo Orleans;
that Follett and Cox were not such branch pilots, but intruders
into office; anid that Falconi, although a branch pilot, had no
right to pilot vessels through the jetties in the service of the
owners or agents of the Mary Lee, because of some agreement
with the defendants not to act as pilot on any ship or vessel
against their interest. The bill also alleged that the defendants had formed themselves into a pretended partnership, and
bound themselves not to do any service as branch pilots for the
port of New Orleans with any other persons than those mentioned in the said confederation, and that these acts were intended to injure and would injure the plaintiff and make his
property worthless unless they were restrained by the court.
Then followed a prayer that the defendants be enjoined from
interfering with the business of the plaintiff in the use of the
pilot-boat, and with its captain, and with Hiram Follett, Pliny
Cox, and George A. Falconi, branch pilots of the port of New
Orleans, in the exercise of their duty as such while in the service of the plaintiff pending the proceedings, "with a view of
preserving from waste and destruction his business and property ;" and, after due proceedings had, that the injunction be
made perpetual, and a decree be entered adjudging that the
association or confederation of the" defendants, so far as it was
designed to interfere with the rights of the plaintiff, his pilotboat and business and branch pilots was contra bono8 mores,

and in violation of law and of good order, and that all acts

OCTOBER TERM, 1885., Opinion of the Court.

done in pursuance thereof were null and void, and that the
right of the plaintiff to pursue his occupation and with his pilot.
boat to pilot vessels through the South Pass to and from the,
sea be recognized pursuant to the acts of Congress, and for
general relief.
The defendants demurred to the bill on various grounds, and,
among others, that it did not state any sufficient cause for
equitable cognizance or relief in favor of the plaintiff against
them, or either of them. The court overruled the demurrer,
and the defendants' answer and replication having" been filed,
proofs were taken and the case heard thereon and on the pleadings. An injunctionpendente lite was granted, and the decree
of the court made the injunction perpetual, from which an
appeal was taken to this court.
.-&.James R. Beckwit for appellants.
i. Joseph P Hornor for appellee submitted on his brief.
Ilp JusTicE

FIELD,

after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill does not state what the publications were of which
the plaintiff complains, or what the divers suits instigated by
the defendants were other than those mentioned, in which
charges were made as to towing vessels through the pass without pilots, and as to certain persons not being branch pilots, or
contracting not to serve as such., Nor does it state any of the
other "various and divers ways" in which he is injured by
the defendants.
The whole gist of the complaint is that the defendants do
not treat the plaintiff as having a right to use his vessel as,a
pilot-boat, and have publicly s6 stated, and that some of the
parties mentioned have been subjected to suits for their acts in
piloting. But if this be so, the plaintiff has a full remedy for
his alleged Wrongs in the courts of law.

They furnish no

ground for the interposition of a court of equity. If the plaintiff has a right to pilot vessels with his boat through the pass
and is wrongfully interfered with by the defendants or others,

