SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. CALIFORNIA. 109
Syllabus.

It results from these views that the lien for partnership debts
takes precedence, not only of the interest of David I. Field,
junior, as heir-at-law of D. I. Field, but of Lucy 0. Freeman's
right of dower. As, however, dower was actually assigned to
her nearly three years before the filing of the present bill, such
assignment should not now be disturbed; but no further exaction for detention of dower should be enforced. We think,
therefore, that, upon the allegations of the bill, the complainants are entitled to relief, and that the demurrers should have
been overruled.
The decre6 of the Circuit Court is
.Rever8ed, and the cause remanded,with fnmtruction8 to overrule the demurrers, and to proceed in the caume according
to law and tA Jrincilesannounced i this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COIMPANY v.
CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted December 11, 1885.-Decided April 26,1886.
The question whether a State has power to tax franchises of a corporation derived from acts of Congress, and property used in connection therewith:
and the question whether a statute of California under the operation of
which the railroad of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company is subjected
to taxation in California without deduction of its mortgage encumbrances,
while in the valuation of the property of other corporations not railroad
corporations, and of individuals for taxation in the State, the moitgage
encumbrances are deducted is repugnant to the XIVth Amerdment of
the Constitution-are questions arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, which, when properly raised in a suit at law or in equity
of a civil nature pending in a State court, authorize its removal into a Circuit Court of the United States; and this, although other issues, not Federal,
are raised by the pleadings in the case.
A suit brought by the State of California in one of its own courts against the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company to recover an amount claimed to be
due for taxes, is a suit at law, of a civil nature, within the meaning of the
removal clauses in the act of March 8, 1875.
Railroad Co. v. .31ississippf, 102 U. S. 135, affirmed and applied.
Starin v. New York, 115 U. S: 248, affirmed and applied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. George H. Smith and .Xr. S. TF. Sandemon for plaintiff
in error.
-Yr. R.

.WWidney for defendant in error.

JUSTICE W &nT delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the State of California, in one of its
own courts, against the Southern Pacific Railroad Company to
recover $31,470.58 claimed to be due for taxes. The railroad
company answered the complaint, setting up, among others,
the following defences:
1. That under and by virtue of the acts of Congress of July
27, 1866,14 Stat. 292, ch. 278; March 3, 1871,16 Stat. 573, ch.
122 ; and May 2, 1872, 17 Stat. 59, ch. 132, the defendant "became, and ever since has been, a Federal corporation," and has
held its franchises and exercised all its corporate powers under
the government of the United States ;" or " if, by virtue of
referred to, it did not bethe several acts of Congress
come a Federal corporation, yet it holds under the government
of the United. States all the corporate -powers and franchises
granted to it by the said several acts of Congress as the trustee for the government, and for the governmental uses and purposes specified in said acts;" "that the government of the
United States has never given to the State of California the
right to lay any tax upon the franchise, existence, or operations
of defendant;" that the "value of all-the franchises held and
corporate powers exercised by defendant under said acts of
Congress" were included in the valuation of the property of
the company upon which the taxes sued for were assessed, and
that by reason of the premises the taxes are illegal and void.
2. That the property of the company for which the taxes
sued for were levied was, and is, encumbered by a mortgage
securing an indebtedness of the railroad company exceeding
$3000 a mile, and that it was valued for taxation without deduction on account of such encumbrance,.because such was the
requirement of the statute with respect to railroad corpora-

MRt. CmEF

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. CALIFOR.NIA. 111
Opinion of the Court.
tions owning railroads within the State, and operated 1n more
than one county, and this corporation was, and is, of thatclass.
3. That the statute under which the taxes were levied is repugnant to Art. XIV. of the Amendments of the Constitution
of the United States, inasmuch as it deprives railroad corporations of the State operated in more than one county of the
,equal protection of the laws, 1, by providing that the property
of such corporations shall be valued for taxation to them without deduction on account of mortgage encumbrances, while the
mortgaged property of other corporations aud of natural persons is taxed to its owner only on its value after the value of
the mortgage has been deducted; and, 2, by failing to provide
a tribunal for the correction of errors in the valuation of the
property of such railroad corporations for taxation, when such
a tribunal is provided for all other corporations and for natural
persons.
4. That the 'statute is still further repugnant to the same
amendment, because it deprives such corporations of their property without due process of law, there being no provision for
notice to them of a time, place, or tribunal for a hearing in
defence of their rights in the valuation of their property for
taxation.
Upon the filing of this answer, the railroad company presented its petition, accompanied with the necessary security,
for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California, under the act of March 3,
"1875, 18 Stat. 470, ch. 137, on the ground that the action "is a
suit at law of a civil nature and arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States." This petition was filed in
time. The State court proceeded with the suit notwithstanding the petition, and gave judgment against the railroad company for the full amount of the tax and the statutory penalty.
From this judgment the corporation appealed to the Supreme
Court, where the only question presented for decision was
"whether the Federal Constitution and the act of Congress
authorized a removal of an action from a State to a Federal
court brought by a State to recover taxes levied under its laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

on the property of a being created by its power in one of its
own courts." This question was decided against the corporation, and the judgment of the court below affirmed. To this
judgment of affirmance the present writ of error was brought
on the allowance of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the State.
In RailroadCo. v. .fsississip, 102 U. S. 135,141, it was decided that a suit brought by a State in one of its own courts
against a corporation of its own creation can be removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States, under the act of March
3, 1875, if it is a suit arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, although it may involve questions other than
those which depend on the Constitution and laws. The case
,of Ames v. .ansas, 111 U. S. 449, is to the same effect; and in
Starin v. .ew York, 115 U. S. 248, 257, it was stated, as the
effect of all the authorities on the subject, that if, from the
questions involved in a suit, "it appears that some title, right,
privilege, or immunity, on which the recovery depends, will be
defeated by one construction of the Constitution or a law of
the United States, or sustained by the opposite construction,
the case will be one arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, within the meaning of that term as used in
th.- act of 1875; otherwise not."
Applying these rules, which must now be considered as
settled, to the Present case, it is apparent that the court below
erred in deciding that the suit was not removable; for it distinctly appears that the right of the State to recover was made
by the pleadings to depend, 1, on the power of the State to tax
the franchises of the corporation derived from the acts of Congress, which were specially referred to, as well as the property
used in connection therewith, and, 2, on the effect of Art. XIV.
of the Amendments of the Constitution on the validity of the
statutes under which the taxes sued for were levied. The first
depended on the construction of the acts of Congress, and the
second on the construction of the constitutional amendment.
If decided in one way the State might recover, if in another it
would be defeated, at least in part. The right of removal does
not depend upon the validity of the claim set up under the Con-

