OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
PLACE & Others v. NORWICH & NEW YORK
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

i
Argued November 16, 17, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1836.
In a case of collision occasioned by the negligence of the officers or hands of
one of the vessels, without any neglect, privity, or knowledge of her owner,
and where said vessel took fire and sank with loss of cargo, and never completed her voyage nor earned any freight, but was afterwards raised and
repaired, and was then libelled and seized on behalf of the owners of her
cargo, and claimed* and bonded at- her then value by her-6wner, who filed
ain answer and a petition for limited liability; and where it further appeared
that the owner received certain moneys for insurane-of the ship against'
loss by fire, Yeld:
(1.) That the owner was entitled to a limitation of liability to the value of
his interest in ship and freight under the act of 1851. Sections 4282-4287
Rev. Stat.
(2.) That the point of time at-which the amount or value of the owner's interest in ship and freight is to be taken for fixing his liability is the termination of the voyage on which the loss or damage occurs.
(3.) That if the ship is lost at sea, or the voyage be otherwise broken up before
arriving at her port of destination, the voyage is then terminated for the
purpose of fixing the owner's liability.
(4.) That in the present case, the voyage was terminated when the ship had
sunk, and that her value at that time was the limit of the owner's liability; and that the subsequent raising of the wreck and repair of the ship,
giving her an increased value, had nothing to do with the liability of the
owner.
(5.) That no freight except what is earned is to be estimated in fixing the
amount of the owner's liability.
(6.) That insurance is no part of the owner's interestin the ship or freight within the meaning of the law, and does not enter into the amount for which
the owner is held liable.
(7.) That the limitation of liability is applicable to proceedings in ren against
the ship as well as to proceedings inpermonam against the owner; the limitation extends to the owner's property as well as to his person.
(8.) That the right to proceed for a limitation of liability, is not lost or waived
by a surrender of the ship -to underwriters.
In thi.s case, although an application for limitation of liability had been origi.

THE CITY OF NORWICEL
Statement of Facts.
nally overruled by the District Court, and an interlocutory decree had beenrendered in favor of the libellants for their entire damage, with a reference
for proofs and a report by the master; yet the court, after the decision of
this court in .Yorwicz Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104, relating to the same
collision, and the promulgation of the additional rules adopted by this
court, received a new petition and ordered a new appraisement to ascertain the value of the ship whilst lying sunk; and made a decree limiting
the liability of the owner to the value at that time: Held that the District
Court had jurisdiction to receive such new petition and to take such proceedings.

The case was stated by the court as follows:
This case arose out of a collision which occurred on Long
Island Sound, opposite Huntington, on the 18th'of April, 1866,
between the Steamboat City of Norwich, belonging to the
Norwich and New York Transportation Company, the appellees, and the schooner General S. Van Viiet, belonging to
William A. Wright and others, appellants, by which the
schooner and her cargo were sunk and lost, and the steamboat
was set on fire and sunk, and her cargo lost. The owners of the
schooner filed a libel inperonam in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Connecticut, against the owners of the steamboat, and obtained a decree for about $20,000
for the schooner, and about $2000 for her cargo, with interest.
Before the decree was passed, the respondents filed a petition,
stating that proceedings in rem had been commenced against
the steamboat in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York, for the recovery of damages for
the loss of the cargo on board said steamboat; and they prayed
leave to show the whole amount of damages sustained by all
parties, and the value of the steamer and her freight then pending; and that the libellants might have a decree for only such
proportion of damages sustained by them as the value of steamer
and freight bore to the whole amount of damages sustained by
all parties by the collision; this claim being made under the limited liability act of 1851. The District Court denied the prayer
of this petition, holding that it had no jurisdiction to give relief.
On appeal to the Circuit Court the decree was affirmed, and
the petition for limitation of liability was denied on the ground
that cases of collision were not within the act. The case then

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

came to this court, and we held, first, that the act of 1851
adopted the general maritime law in reference to limited liability as contra-distinguished from-the English law, measuring
the liability by the value of ship and freight after, instead of
before, the collision; secondll, that the act embraced cases of
damage received by collision as well as cases of injury to the
cargo of the offending ship; thirdly,that the district courts of
the United States, as courts of admiralty, have jurisdiction to
administer the law; fourthly, that the proper court to hear and
determine the question is the court which has possession of the
fund, that is, the ship and freight, or the proceeds and value
thereof. And in view of the want of rules of procedure, and
of any uniform practice on the subject, we -directed that proceedings should be suspended in the District Court of Connecticut, in order to give the respondents an opportunity of making
the proper application to the District Court of the Eastern District of New York, which thad possession of the steamer, or a
stipulation for. her value in lieu of the steamer itself. We also
adopted some general rules of practice for the aid and guidance of the district courts in such cases. Nrorwih Co. v.
WTfight, 13 Wall. 104.
The libel-in reim, fled in the District Court for the Eastern
District of New York, was filed by George Place and Charles
Place (now appellants here) in August, 1866, after the steamboat had been raised and carried to the shore of Long Island
and repaired. The Norwich and New York Transportation
Company appeared as claimants, and filed an answer and a
petition to have the benefit of the act of 1851 for a linitation
of their liability to the value of the steamboat and freight
pending at the time of the collision and fire. Other libels were
also filed by other owners of cargo. The steamer as repaired
was appraised at $70,000.
On the 13th day of June, 1872, after the decision of this
court was rendered in the case of the Norwich Co. v. W?'ight,
the company, by leave of the court, filed a new petition in the
District Court for the Eastern District of New York for the
benefit of limited liability under the act of 1851, conformable
.1
to the rules adopted by this court.

THE CITY OF NORWICIL
Statement of Facts.

The petition stated the various claims against the vessel
arising out 6f the collision, (amounting to nearly $150,000,)
the previous proceedings that had been taken, the libels that had
been filed, the circumstances of the loss, the raising and repair
of the vessel, &c., and prayed for a new appraisement in accordance with the decision of this court, a monition to claimants,
&c., as will more fully appear in the finding of facts made by
the Circuit Court, hereinafter stated.
Orders for publication and appraisement were made pursuant
to the prayer of the petition, and the commissioner appointed
to make the appraisement reported as follows, to wit.:
"In ascertaining the value of the steamboat City of Norwich, as directed by the order of reference herein, I have
followed what I understood to have been the decision of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Wright
against the owners of this boat, 13 Wall. 104, and have ascertained her value in the situation and condition she was in after
the collision, and before she was raised, and I find from the
testimony taken before me that she was at that time of the
value of $2500. I have ariived at such value by taking the
testimony as to her value in New York after she was raised by
her owners and brought there, which shows that she was then
and there worth the sum of $25,000, and I have deducted from
that amount the sum of $22,500, being the sum which, according to the testimony, it had actually cost to raise her and bring
her to New York, which leaves $2500 to be her value, as I have
above stated."
Exceptions were taken to the report, first, that the former
appraisement of $70,000 was binding on the parties and the
court; secondly, that the appraisement should have been for
the value of the steamer immediately before the collision;
thirdly, that it should have been for the value immediately
after the collision, before the occurrence of damage by the fire;
fourthly, that there should have been no deduction for the expenses of raising the steamer; fifthly, that the sum of $600
should have been added for the pending freight; sixthly, that
the money received for insurance on the vessel should have been
added, amounting to $19,283.07.

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

The exceptions were overruled, and a decree was made authorizing the petitioners to pay into court the sum of $2500,
the value of the steamer, and directing a monition to issue, citing all parties interested to appear and prove their claims, restraining the further prosecution of all suits, and appointing a
commissioner to take proof of claims. On the subsequent report of the commissioner a final decree was made in January,
1879, distributing the fund in court, and discharging the petitioners from further demands.
The case was appealed to the Circuit Court and argued before Mr. Justice Strong, who, in October, 1879, affirmed the
decree of the District Court, but the decree of affirmance was
not entered until July 3, 1882. That decree is now before us
for review. The finding of facts by the Circuit Court was substantially as follows:
1. It states the fact of the collision, and that "it was caused
by the negligence of the steamboat's officers or hands, without
any design, neglect, privity or knowledge of her owners. Very
soon, within half an hour after the collision, the boat took fire,
her deck and upper works were burned off, and she sank in
about. twenty fathoms of water. The fire was the direct consequence of the collision and inseparable from it. It was
caused by the rushing of the waters through the broken hull
of the boat, whereby the fire was driven out of the furnaces
.upon the woodwork, and the boat sank by reason of her filling with water.
" 2. At the time of the disaster the boat had a cargo of merchandise on board belonging to different freighters, all of which
was totally lost. The freight then pending amounted to $600,
but none of it was earned or received by the ship owners.
"3. Sometime after the steamboat was sunk, and her cargo
destroyed, she was raised by salvors and taken to the Long
Island shore, within the port of New York, whlere she was repaired."
4. It states the suit by Wright & Co., in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Connecticut, and the
decision of the Supreme Court in that case.
5. It states the proceedings upon libel fied by George and

THE CITY OF NORWICIL
btatement of Facts.

Charles Place in the District Court for the Eastern District of
New York, the appraisement at $70,000, and the release of the
vessel to the claimants (The Norwich & N. Y. Trans. Co.)
upon their giving stipulation therefor, adding, "The stipulation
purported to be for the security not only of the Messrs. Place,
but also for the benefit of all persons who might, by due proceedings in said court, show themselves entitled to liens upon
the vessel by reason of said collision. The appraisement was
of the value of the vessel as it was after she had been raised and
repaired. It was returned into the court on the 11 th of March,
1867, and the stipulation in the amount of the appraisement was
filed on the 29th day of the same month. On the 20th day of
December, 1869, the District Court ordered decrees to be entered in favor of the libellants in all the suits commenced against
the steamer as aforesaid.
"6. Such was the condition of the litigation when the present
petition was filed in July, 1872, after the rendition of the judgment by the Supreme Court in the case of the libel of William
A. Wright et al. in the District Court of Connecticut. The petition prayed that, in conformity with the act of Congress, the
decision of the Supreme Court, and the admiralty rules made in
pursuance thereof, the court would cause an appraisement to be
made of the value of the interest of th6 petitioners in the steamboat, and her freight for the voyage in which she was employed, for which they were liable, and that an order should be
made for paying the amount of such valuation into court, or
for giving a stipulation therefor, with sureties. It prayed
further for a monition against all the persons claiming damages arising out of the said collision and fire, citing them to
appear and make proof of their claims, and it prayed also for
a restraining order against the further prosecution of all or any
suits against the steamboat or the petitioners for any damage
caused by the collision, fire, and loss. There was also a prayer
for general relief. .The monition was issued, the appellants
appeared, and an order was made for an appraisement of the
amount of value of the interest of the petitioners as owners,
respectively, of said steamboat and her freight, pending for the
voyage upon which she was employed, for which the petition-

474

.OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

ers were liable. A restraining order, as prayed for, was also
made. Pursuant to the direction of the court, an appraisement
was made. The appraiser ascertained and reported the value
of the steamboat, as she lay immediately after the collision and
fire, and before she was raised, to have been $2500, and the
District Court confirmed the report and ordered the amount to
be paid into the registry, which was accordingly done.
"7. The-value of the interest of the petitioners in the Steamboat, as she was immediately after the disaster, was $2500 and
no more.
"8. The value of that interest immediately before the collision was $70,000.
"9. When the collision occurred the steamboat was insured
against fire (not against marine disaster), and upon the several
policies the petitioners, as owners, have recovered from the underwriters the sum of $49,283.07; that part of said sum'was
recovered by the petitioner herein in an action brought by it in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut on one of said five policies against the Western Massachusetts Insurance Company. One of the defences in that action was that the loss and damages were occasioned by the
collision (which is the same .mentioned in these Proceedings),
whilp the petitioner herein claimed that the greater part of the
loss was by fire. The court held in that case that there were
two classes of losses: one, the damage done the steamer by the
collision itself, and the other caused by the fire. The damages
caused by the collision were proved at $15,000. The damages
caused by the fire were determined to be $69,000. The said
insurance company moved for a new trial, but the motion was
denied.
"10. The steamboat itself has never been surrendered or
transferred to a trustee for the persons injured by her fault."
The conclusions at which Mr. Justice Strong arrived upon
these facts were: 1st. That the value of the steamboat immediately after the collision and fire, as she lay at the bottom of
the Sound, with her pending freight, was the measure of the
owners' liability, and the amount to be. apportioned. 2d.
That insurance is not an intcrest in the vessel within the mean-

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Mr. Ward's Argument for Appellants.

ing of the 3d section of the act oft 1851, or section 4283 of the
Revised Statuites. 3d. That the limitation of the owners'
liability under the act is as-applicable when the proceeding is
in rem, as when it is irnperonam; so 'that, if the owners' liability is only the amount of the vessel's value when at the bottom of the Sound, the vessel's liability, after being raised and
repaired, is no greater.
_r. J. Langdon WVard for appellants Place and Bigelow.
I. Neither the District nor the Circuit Court had jurisdiction
to entertain the petition in these proceedings, nor by order or
decree thereon to perpetually restrain these appellants from
proceeding to decree under- the libels filed by them. *Te
,cotland, 105 U. S; 24, 33; The Ann Caroline,2 Wall. 538 ;
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; .Norwich Co. v. WVight, 13
Wall. 104; ]'rov. & 2N.
. Steamnp Co. v. Hill 3ffg. Co.,
109 U. S. 578.
II. The order of March 5, 1873, directing an appraisement
was unauthorized and irregular, and must, with the proceedings founded thereon, be set aside so far as these appellants
are concerned. The stipulation for value represented the ship,
was her proceeds, and constitutel the fund which in any event
the court was bound to apportion under the second petition.
Norwich Co. v. Wright, above cited, The North, Garolina,15
Pet. 40.
III. The court below erred in finding as matter of fact that
the fire was inseparable from the collision.
IV. It also erred in finding as matter of fact that the order
for the appraisement of the amount of the value of the interest of the petitioners as owners respectively of said steamboat
and her freight pending was made after the issue of the monition and the appearane of these appellants herein.
V. It also erred in finding as matter of fact that the value
of the interest of petitioners in the steamboat as she was immediately after the disaster was $2500 and no more. Sun
.Mt.Ins. Co. v. Ocean Ins. Co., 107 U. S. 485, 501.
VI. The sum received by the petitioners from the insurance
companies as indemnity for the damage caused to the City of

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Mr. Ward's Argument for Appellants.

Norwich by fire, with interest from the date of its receipt,
should have been included in the appraisement of the amount
of the value of the interest of the petitioners as owners in that
vessel. This is discussed in Tle Scotlandpost 507; and The
Great l'estern, post 520; We adopt all that is there said by
the able counsel, and, without repeating it further, present our
own views of the statute, based upon its wording.
The act of 1851 provides that the liability of the owner or
owners of the vessel for damage caused as in the present case
"without the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners,

shall in no case exceed the amount or value of the interest of
such owner or owners respectively in such ship or vessel and
her'freight then pending;" and then provides that where loss
has been suffered by several owners of property, exceeding the
whole value of the ship or vessel, and her freight for -the voyage, they shall receive compensation from the owner or owners
in proportion to their respective losses, and that any one interested may take appropriate proceedings for the apportioning
of the sum among the parties entitled thereto. It then provides that a transfer by the owner of his interest in the ship
and freight to a trustee for the benefit of the claimants shall
be deemed a sufficient compliance- with the act. At what
time is that interest to be estimated? This court has considered it three times: in The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239, 246;
Nforwich Co. v. Mright, above cited; and The Scotland, 105
U. S. 24. Neither of these expositions is sufficiently comprehensive to meet all the cases which can arise. See The North
Star, 106 U. S. 17. It seems to us that the meaning and intent of the legislature, in the enactment of this statute, was
to constitute the owners of a vessel, on the instant of the
happening of any event by reason of which damage might
result to others, for which they were or might be liable, and
for which they desired to limit their liability under the statute,
into trustees, holding the vessel and 'everything which might
be realized from her thereafter during that voyage for the
benefit of the sufferers. It is a fundamental principle in the
interpretation of statutes that they must, if possible, be so
construed as to operate with uniformity in all cases; and on no

THE CITY OF NORWICH.

477

Mr. Ward's Argument for Appellants.

other theory can absolute uniformity be secured in the operation of this statute.
The liability of the vessel owner to the shipper of the cargo,
for damage to his cargo during the carriage, results from the
contract of carriage, and its breach; and the action for breach
of that contract in a case where the damages would be properly limited under the statute, would be what was formerly
denominated an action of trespass on the case. The responsibility of the vessel owner for damages caused by collision with
another vessel, in a case where his responsibility for those
damages would be limited by the statute, would arise from his
responsibility for the act of his master or mariners, his servants, and would be an action of trespass on the case. Both
these actions sound-in tort. It is settled law that in such an
action the right of action accrues at the instant of the commission of the fault, even though the resulting damages may
not be suffered for some time afterwards. Argall v. -Bryant,
1 Sandford (N. Y.), 98; Wilcox v. Plummer, 4 Pet. 172.
Such being the case, it is equitably and fairly within the
meaning of the law, that at the instant of the occurrence by
which the liability of the shipowner is fixed, the ship itself
and the freight that may be earned on that voyage should be
deemed appropriated to the satisfaction of the resulting damages, and so it was held under the statute 53 Geo. III. ch. 159,
the wording of which was entirely similar to the act of 1851.
.Dobree v. Scrod-er, 6 Sim. 291; see also Traldron v. Wlard,,
17 N. Y. 466.
If we are correct in this it is manifest that the rules applied
in the cases above cited cannot be applicable to all possible
cases. It is no answer to this to say that the contract of insurance is a personal contract, and that no insurable interest
remains in the holder after transfer of the property. For, in
the first place, if as matter of fact the transfer to a trustee were
made before the occurrence of subsequent disaster, there wbuld
be opportunity for, and it would be the duty of, the trustee to
insure the property forthwith, and by delay 6n the part of
the owners for their own benefit in taking such a course the
sufferers should not be prejudiced; and second, in the case at

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Ward's Argument for Appellants.

bar the moneys have been collected from the insurance companies and received by the owners, and we say that, under the
statute, the common case is presented of the legal title to
property vested in one person, the beneficial interest in
another, and in analogous cases it has been uniformly held
that if loss or damage occurs to the property, and the holders
of the legal title receive compensation therefor, they receive
it for the benefit of the holders of the beneficial interest.
W'yrn v. IFyman, 26 N. Y. 253; Burbank v. Rockingham
As. Co., 4 Fostdr (24 N. H.) 550 ; Beach v. Bowery As. Co.
8 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 261; Parryv. Ashley, 3 Sim. 97; I"n. Co.
v. Urpdegraff, 21 Penn. St. 513; Gates v. Smith, 4 Edw. Oh.
(N. Y.) 702; .Eagle's Case, 3 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 218-235.
The act of 1851 does not release the shipowner from the obl.igation to secure trustworthy persons to manage his vessels'
Recognizing that with the utmost diligence he may fail in doing
so, and aiming to enable the honest shipowner to invest a part
of his capital in ships on the sea without perilling what remains
to him on land, it only requires him in case of disaster to surrender his interest in what reim.ains. That interest includes
insurance. See Abbott"s Law Dict. Tit. Interest. To hold
otherwise would nullify the act of 1851, as it will permit the
owner to retain his sea fortune intact, while refusing redress to
the sufferers by the misconduct of his own agent.
We submit that the change of the phraseology in the Revised
Statutes: to wit, § 4283, "the liability of the owner of the
vessel

.

.

.

shall in no case exceed the amount or value of

the interest of such owner in such vessel," indicates conclusively
the intention of the legislature to be that for which we have
contended, and excludes the interpretation placed upon the act
of 1851 by the court below.
If it is objected that this theory of a tist finds no support
in the wording of the act of 1851; we say that it necessarily
results therefrom, though not declared in ijpsissimis verbi.
.By the maritime law the sufferers by the fault of a ship
acquire, on the commission of the fault, a lien upon the offending res for their damages, that is a right in the thing.
In the case of cargo the. familiar . expression is that imme,

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Mr. Halsey's Argument for Appellee.

diately upon shipment the ship is bound to the cargo, and the
cargo to the ship, for the faithful performance of the contract
of carriage.
The act of 1851 simply provides that when such a lien has
attached the shipowner may, if he chooses, limit the remedy of
the lienor to the offending ship, and confine his recovery to
that which he may be able to get out of the ship.
It is reasonable that time should be given the shipowner in
which to make his election, whether to stand his liability for
the whole loss or to refer the claimants to the offending res
alone; nevertheless, the plainest principles of equity require
that the time so granted should not be permitted to change
the relative situations of the parties to the advantage of either.
Ina case like this, where damages done to an offending res (in
whichi by reason of the offence, the whole right of the owner
has become appropriated by statute to the satisfaction of the
sufferers by that offence, and the owners absolved from liability
for their claims) is paid for by an insurer, the reason of the
rule will necessitate the surrender of the insurance moneys to
those sufferers, and will not .permit the owner to retain them
to his own use, because the loss is not his own, and he does not
remain personally liable for the debt.
We do not claim that if before the happening of the loss the
vessel had been transferred to a trustee under the statute any
then existing policy of insurance would by force of that transfer have passed so as to give the trustee a right of action in his
own name against the underwriter in respect of a subsequent loss; but we do claim that if in such a case the assured
should recover, his recovery would in equity be to the use of
the beneficiaries under the trust; and that by the force of a
transfer made after the loss the right of action on the policy
would pass to the trustee.
.Mr. eJerem ah Halsey (31r. J . C. leveridge was with him
on the brief), for appellee.
That the petitioners are entitled to the limitation which the
statute gives is settled in the case of Norwich Co. v. Wright,
13 Wall. 104. The proceeding, whenever taken, is a proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Halsey's Argument for Appellee.

ing to obtain the benefit of the statute, and the court must
give the full limitation allowed by it, or it can give nothing.
The rule of the general maritime law is to be adopted; under
which the owner's liability is limited to his interest in the
vessel and cargo; i. e., to that which the general maritime law
would have compelled him to surrender, in order to be discharged from liability. This amount has been accurately fixed
by the report of the commissioner in this proceeding.
The rule of limitation under the general maritime law that
the liability is limited to the ship and freight refers only to
the property which the shipowner has put at risk in the maritime venture-to his 8ea fortune, not to his land fortune. The
proceeding to obtain the benefit of this limitation, which is
quite a different thing, is the surrender of the ship and freight
in the manner provided for by the law of the country. See.
Caumont Dict. Com. Mar. Abandon, § 8; 1 Bedarride, Code de
Com., § 297. The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; Thomme8en v. Witwill, 21 Blatchford, 45. But the rule of limitation itself,
which is universal, without regard to local proceedings to
enforce it, confines the liability to the condition of the ship in
her damaged condition. Strong J. in .21 Blatchford, 231. And
proceedings to obtain the benefit of the act, though taken sulbsequently, are taken as of the time of the disaster.
The claim that the value after the collision and before the
fire should have been taken as the value under the statute is
untenable, because the fire was the result of the collision, and
the two cannot be separated.
The main question relates to the insurance. This court has
intimated in previous cases its opinion that insurance recovered
forms no part of the amount for which ship owners are liable.
The Benefactor, 102 U. S., at page 246; The -NorthStar, 106
U. S., at page 29 ; .Norwich Co. v. Wfright, 13 Wall. at page
126 ; The Scotland,105 U.S. at page 28; 3foore v. Am. Tran8.
Co., 24 How. at page 29; which is in accord with the general
doctrine that an insurance policy is a personal contract.
f.fildmay v. Folgham, 3 Ves. Jr. 41; VFernon v. Smith, 5 B. &
Ald.1.
This view has been held uniformly by District and Circuit

THE CITY OF NORWICH.Mr. Halsey's Argument for Appellee.

Courts. Watton v. .arks, 2 Am. Law. Reg. 157 ; Pe'n,
Norwich & N . Y. Trans. Co., 8 Ben. 312; S. C., 17 Blatchford, 221; The rPestigo,2 Flippin, 466; Thommessen v. Wwill, 21 Blatchford, 45 ; City of Columbus, 22 Fed. Rep. 460.
The soundness of this uniform line of decisions is now before
the court for determination. It is respectfully submitted, that
the interest in the vessel, which is the measure of liability
under § 4283, and a transfer of which, if made under § 4285, operates to discharge the claim for lbss or damage, does not include
a claim for insurance money received by the owners of the vessel.
I. The proper construction of the statute leads to this result.
Ships are usually owned in shares. The obvious purpose of
the word "interest," is to indicate that each co-owner's liability
is limited to his share (which is his interest), and is not to extend to the entire vessel. To extend his liability beyond this
to the insurance money would cause a word used for the
purpose of limiting liability to operate in a contrary sense.
This would violate settled rules of construction.
The word "interest" extends to the freight as well as the
ship. If both were totally lost to their owners "by a surrender to the waves," could it be contended, in the light of the
reported expressions of this court in relation to freight, that insurance on freight was to be surrendered?
The construction of § 4283, is aided by the language of
§ 4284, being § 4 of the original act, which describes the liability as "the whole value of this vessel, and her freight for
the voyage."
It is now settled by the decisions of this dourt that all claims
for damages arising from the disaster stand upon an equality,
when the whole value is insufficient to make full compensation,
and that the measure of the owner's liability is the same whether
he surrenders his interest under § 4285, or takes "appropriate
proceedings" under § 4284.
The " whole value of the vessel and freight for the voyage"1 is
then clearly the limit of the liability., and in case of part owners
each is liable only for the value of his interest or share in the
ship. This construction gives full effect to the language of
each section, and renders them harmonious.
VOL. OXVM-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Halsey's Argument for Appellee.

A policy of- insurance on a vessel is not an interest in the
vessel itself. It is a right existing by itself, and is the representative of the premium. In addition to the authorities
already cited, see _MeDonald v.'Black, 20 Ohio, 185; Wit8on
v. Hill, 3 Met. 65 ; Powles v. Innes, 11 M. & W. 10; Columbian
Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Pet. 512; Plympton v. 1n8. Co., 43
Vt. 497; Gleason v. First .Nat.Bank, 13 Fed. Rep. 719.
There is no inequity in this construction. This statute was
enacted to free shipowners from the severe rules of the common law. See -Now Jer8ey Steam Nav. Co. v. Mferchanta'
Bank, 6 How. 344. It is in harmony. with the general maritime law. Stinson v. Wyman, 2 Ware, 172; and should be so
construed as to carry put the policy introduced in its enactment. See the debates in Congress on -the passage of this act.
By the general maritime law, the. shipowners (if personally
free from blame) were not liable for the negligent or wrongful acts of the master and crew, beyond the amcunt of their
interest in the ship. So that if'they surrendered the ship they
were discharged. NYorwick Co. v. Wrig t, 13 Wall. at page
116; The Scotland, 105 U. S. at page 28.
In the first of these cases this court (on page 11) quotes from
Pardessus, intimating that insurance must be surrendered.
But this extract,, taken from an early edition, is not contained
in the edition of 1841, where it would seem that he has a
'doubt of its correctness, and in any event he stands alone.
Many other and far more weighty authorities Ere against him.
See 1 Boulay-Paty, Droit Com. Mar. 297; dp Villeneuve &
Mass6, 'Dict. Cont. Com. Ai-mateur § 18; Eloy & Guerrand,
Capitaines Mait. et -Pat. 270;, 1 B6darride, Com. Mar. 359;
Valin, Com. sur l'Ord de la Marine.
In addition to the sections of Caumont's Dictionnaire du"
Droit Maritime, referred to in the bpinion of the District
Court, we refer also to sections 57 and 58.
The 7th section of the same article states the earlier authorities for the general rule, as follows: "The ordinance of 1681,
atd the jurisprudence of the Parliament of Aix, while it had
authority, decided that the owner never-exposed anything but
his ship to the chances of navigation; that is to say, his sea

THE CITY OF NORWICH.

- 48

Mr. Ingersoll's Argament for Appellants.

property and not that of the land. So taught also Loccenius
and Vinnius; Decree of Parl. of Aix, 18 May, 1761, Emerigon,
Contrats A la grosse, ch. 4, Section 4, § 5; Consul. de la Mier.
ch. 194 and 239; Grotius, Stypmann, part 4, ch. 15, No. 120;
Kuricke, Quest. 21; Pothier, Trait6 des Obligations, No. 451
and Charter parties; Boulay-Paty 1, 270; Dageville 2, 111;
Fr6mery, p. 189; Court of Cassation, 9 March, 1814, at
Rennes, 16 Jan., 1821; at La Haye, 4 Nov., 182A; at Mar-"
seilles, 20 Sept., 1831.
.r. C.R. Ingersoll, for appellants Wright and another.
1. The court below erred in not apportioning among the
sufferers by the steamer's fault the whole value of the
owner's interest in the offending vessel at the time the limitation of liability was sought; such value being fixed by the
stipulation at $70,000. That the stipulation taken upon the
release of the vessel from custody is (independently of any peculiar provision) a substitute for the released vessel, and that
the rights and remedies of all parties interested in the released
vessel remain unaffected by the substitution, and are to be regarded precisely the same as though the vessel itself was now.
in court, as the actual res to be subjected to its decrees, we suppose will be conceded. United States v. Ames, 99 U. S.35, 42;
7te WFanata, 95 U. S.600, 611.
When this statute was enacted the general maritime law as
administered, not only in the United States, where no limitation of the shipowner's liability by Federal law obtained, but
in continental Europe and England, also, where the limitation
existed, entitled the lien-creditor to the full amount of the
owner's interest in the vessel as that interest might be at
the time of its appropriation for his benefit. The Rebecca, 1
Ware, 188; The Afaggie Hammond, 9 Wall. 449 ; The China,
I Wall. 68; The Siren, 7 Wall. 155; The Alive, 1 W. Rob.
111; The .uropa, 2 Moore P. C. N. S.1 ; The Gharles Amelia,
2 L. R. Adm. & Eccl. 330; The Bold Buccleugh,- 7 Moore
P. C. 267.
This maritime lien or hypothecation of the vessel, adheres to
the ship from the instant it attaches-as a proprietary interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Ingersolrs Argument for Appellants.

- a ju8 in're-and travels with her wherever she may go and
in whatever condition she may be, so long as her identity as a
ship is preserved.
However it may be in England, where the administration of
the general maritime law has been largely influenced by common law rules and practice, it is very certain that in this country, and particularly in this court, the doctrine of the general
maritime law, as declared in Tite Rebecca (p. 203), has been
uniformly followed, and the master of the ship regarded "not
precisely as the agent, or, in the language of the civil law the
prcepostus of the owners, but as standing with regard to them
in a peculiar relation which -was expressed by the term commendatory."
And therefore, as 2merigon says (as quoted by Judge Ware,
p. 204): "The obligations of the proprietors are rather real
than personal. . . . The master's legal power does not extend beyond the ship of which he is the master, that is the administrator."
And later commentators upon the general maritime law are
in accord with this. l36darride in his Commentaire du Code de
Commerce, Paris, 1859, vol. 1, art. 216, says:
"The responsibility of the owner rests upon the basis that
those who have directly or indirectly dealt with the captain,
acting in that character, and within the limits of his power,
have really dealt with the ship itself, which becomes the principal bound."
Out of this responsibility which the maritime law imposes
upon the offending vessel, has grown the peculiar remedy of the
court of admiralty, i nem. Its sole purpose is to enforce the
lien by which the ship is bound.
Also out of this distinction between the liability of the vessel
and the liability of the person grew the mode by which the
principle of limiting the personal liability of the shipowner to
his sea-fortune was carried into effect. He was allowed to
limit his own liability by limiting the creditor to the remedy
which the maritime law gave him against the ship; but he
could not limit the liability of the ship, or impair the remedy
which the maritime law gave the creditor iib pem.

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Mr. Ingersoll's Argument for Appellants.

It seems to be clear that by the generalmaritime law: (1.)
The ship was primarily liable for the faults of its navigation,
the owner's liability being through the ship. (2.) The owner
could, therefore, discharge himself from this liability by relinquishing to the creditor his interest in the ship; in other words
he could limit the remedy of the creditor to that part of his
property which was invested in the ship, as the representative
of his sea fortune. But against .this sea fortune, after the limitation arose, the remedy of the creditor was absolute. (3.)
This limitation of the creditor's remedy could not arise except
by some positive act of the owner, advising the creditor that
he could pursue his remedy against the ship without any opposition from the owner. And until such act of "abandonment" the liability of the owner and the remedies of the creditor remained unlimited.
Boulay-Paty makes this clear in contrasting the "abandonment" of Art. 216 of the French Commercial Code with the
"d6laissement" to the insurer, 1 Droit Com. Mar. 293:
"Article 216 does not attach the same effect to the abandonment which it (Art. 369) authorizes; it is the simple declaration of the shipowner that he makes no claim whatever to
that property; it is a mere turning over of the property to the
shipper that he may pay himself, if he can, out of the res solely,
and not out of the person of the owner, whose obligation, according to the expression of ]merigon, is rather real than personal."
That this abandonment or quit-claim of the ship must leave
to thu creditor the whole value of the ship quit-claimed, and as
she is quit-claimed, seems obvious. And so by the maritime
law, as administered under the Commercial Code of France,
the shipowner, upon the occurrence of a disaster to his ship,
bringing him under liability, if he has not renounced his legal
right of surrender or abandonment expressly, or tacitly, may
make the surrender at any time thereafter. Caumont Dict.
Dr. Mar., tit. Abandonm. From this it must follow that the
ship when abandoned to the creditors, (after collision,) may be
in a different condition, and of a very different value to that
when she came out of the collision. And further, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Ingersoll's Argument for Appellants.

maritime law as administered in France, we understand that
the shipowner who should, after a collision resulting in serious
damage to his vessel, repair his vessel fully and for a new voyage, would be held to have elected not to abandon, and, therefore, could not thereafter set up his privilege of limitation
against the creditor.
Upon this review of the maritime ]a* as it was administered
when the act of March 3, 1851 was passed, it is plain that, at
that time, the sufferer by collision, in this country, had his
remedy against the offending vessel to the full extent of the
value of the owner's interest in that vessel at the time when
such value was sought to be appropriated for his benefit. That
remedy was not taken from him by the act.
The statute created no new tribunal; conferred no new
jurisdiction on existing tribunals; it only declared, for the
guidance of all courts, the measure of the shipowner's liability.
It had a twofold purpose: 1, (derived from continental law), to
limit the shipowner's liability in every case of loss without
his privity to the value of his interest in the vessel and pending freight, to be the same whether the creditors are one or
many, and in all cases: 2, (from the English lEquity System), to
apportion that value among the sufferers by the wrong, in the
special case where there are several on the same voyage and
the whole value of the vessel and freight is not sufficient to
make compensation to each of them.
The construction which is now sought to be put on the act
is this: that in cases of collision it was intended to limit, not
only the liability of the owner of the offending vessel, but the
liability of the offending vessel itself, also; the limit, in each
case, being the value of the owner's interest in the vessel, as
that interest was at a certain point of time, namely, immediately after the collision. This is a radical change in the maritime law .of the country, whichi if Congress had intended; it
would have clearly expressed. The statute expresses but one
measure for the owner's liability, and that is the value of tha
vessel when it shall be transferred for the benefit of the creditor; and from this premise the only sound conclusion is, that
where there is an existing vessel, the owner's liability is, there-

THE CITY OF NORWICI.
Mr. Ingersoll's Argument for Appellants.

fore, the value of that vessel when either the vessel itself or its
representative value shall be appropriated for the benefit of
the creditor.
But if the provision in the statute respecting a transfer is
decisive evidence, as the court found it to be, of the intention
of the statute to measure the owner's liability by the value of
the vessel at some time after the collision, is it not with greater
reason decisive evidence that the statute intends the absolute
liability to remain until the owner shall either transfer the
vessel " in compliance with the requirements of the act," or do.
some other equivalent thing? And does it-not necessarily follow that the equivalent thing to do must be something which
will give to the claimants the value, of'the vessel at the time
the thing is done? And, therefore, if the owner may pay the
value into court instead of transferring the vessel to a trustee,
that such value must be the value of the vessel as she then is
when the payment into court is made?
The provisions of § 3 of the act are in harmony with the
provision for a transfer. Taking the statute as a whole, the
measure of the owner's liability is his interest in that ship or
vessel which by the maritime law is responsible in specie for
the injury-the vessel which is bound by the tacit hypothecation of the maritime lien to pay "with its whole value" the
losses resulting from its fault-and the vessel which the owner
may transfer to a trustee for the benefit of his creditors if he
desires to comply with the requirements of the statute. And
so long as that vessel exists and is liable to admiralty seizure
at the suit of the creditor or to "transfer" by the owner, so
long it continues, with its present value, to measure the liability
of its owner. The declaration of § 3 is only the declaration of
the maritime law that the shipowner, in the cases there mentioned, may restrict his creditor to the remedy (in effect)
which the maritime law gives him in .er-against the vessel,
or, as it is expressed in The Chinz supra, the "primary liability" is regarded as upon the vessel and the limitation
"limits the creditor to this part of the owner's property." For
the statute, it will be observed, makes no attempt to, interfere
with the ordinary jurisdiction of the admiralty court in rem.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1885.
Mr. Ingersoll's Argument for Appellants.

Indeed this provision for a transfer "to a trustee" seems to
have been intended for the purpose of affording the State or
common law courts (and the act of 1851 had its origin in
States having similar legislation) a method of applying the
statute analogous to that which is peculiar to the admiralty
court.
II. The District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of New York, was without jurisdictional power to do
anything else, upon the appellee's petition, than to apportion
among the claimants, the stipulated value of the condemned
steamer, that is, $70,000. The Bene-actor,103 U. S. 214, 249;
James v. -London c goutlbweslern ]?ailroac Oo., 7 L. R. Exch.
287.
III. The .apppellee became bound by the proceedings taken
upon its petition of October 2, 1866, for the benefit of the act
of March 3, 1851, resulting in the stipulation of March 28, 1807,
to pay into court the sum of :$70,000 for apportionment among
the lien-creditors.
IV. The Circuit Cburt, having adopted as the measure of
the owner's liability the value of his interest in the vessel at
the time immediately after the collision, and, as reduced by it,
erred in its computation of that value. It should have found
that value as of the time immediately after the collision and
before the fire had supervened ; and either have computed that
value as the value before the collision, reduced only by the damage
caused by the collision, or the value after the fire increased by
the insurance received on account of the fire. Brown v.
TWilkinson, 15 M. & W. 391 ; IWyman v. lVyman, 26 -N.Y. 353;
Burba 7 v. Insurance Co., 24 N. H. (4 Foster) 550; rPm 1 v.
AsIdey, 3 Sim. 97.
V. But even if the measure of the owner's liability adopted
by the Circuit Court shall be intended to be as of the time immediately after the fire, or when the steamer was lying at the
bottom of the Sound, the computation of that valuE by the

Circuit Court is still erroneous. The value of the insurance
should have been carried into the valuation of the owner's
interest.

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Opinion of the Court.
]Ur. JUSTIcE BRADLEY,

after stating the case in the language

reported above; delivered the opinion of the court.
The first ground of error which we shall notice is the alleged
want of jurisdiftion in the District Court to allow a reappraisement of the steamboat for the purpose of fixing her value as
the limit of the owner's liability, after her value had once been
appraised at $70,000, and she had been delivered to the claimants upon their stipulation for that amount. This ground
cannot be maintained, because the question had not then been
deciled, what particular time was to be t.,ken for fixing the
value of the vessel in reference to the limited liability of the
owners. They wished to have possession of her, and were
willing to give a stipulation for her full value at that time
in order to obtain such possession. Mad the vessel remained
in custody until the final petition for a limited liability was
filed, the court would bave been at liberty then to determine
the time at which the value of the vessel should be taken for
that purpose, and to order a new appraisement if necessary.
The stipulation given merely stood in place of the vessel itself,
and did not deprive the court of any of its power- The subsequent trial on the merits, the interlocutory decree in favor of
the libellants, and the report of the commissioner showing thd
amount of their damage, did not preclude the claimants from
exercising their right to proceed for a limitation of their liability under the rules of procedure adopted by this court. The
trial on the merits resulted in determining which vessel was in
fault, and in liquidating the amount.of damage sustained by the
libellants, to be useil as a basis of theirpn'o ratce share in the
fund which might ultimately be decreed subject to their claim
and the claims of other parties. It did not settle the amount
of that fund, nor -the extent of the liability of the owners of the
steamer. In the case of Yhe Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239, 244,
this matter was fully-considered, and we held that "tfhe
amount recovered, whether before the limitation proceedings
ard commenced, or afterwards, and whether in the court of
first instance, or an appellate court, will stand as the recoverer's
basis for pro rata division when the condemned fund is distributed Ia all other respects the proceedings for obtaining a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

limitation ,of liability may proceed 4n ordinary course." In
view of the want of any settled practice on the subject, this
court, in its opinion in the case of NYorwich Co. v W'right, suggested the precise course which was taken by the petitioners.
13 Wall. 126. We think it was the proper course, and that
the District Court had jurisdiction to entertain the petition, and
to order a new appraisement.
The next question to be considered is, at what time ought
the value of the vessel and her pending freight to be taken, in
fixing the amount of her owners' liability. Ought it to be
taken as it was immediately before the collision, or afterwards?
ALnd if afterwards, at what time afterwards? The first question has been repeatedly answered by the decisions of this
court. We held in Norwich Co v. TMrigkt, and have held and
decided in many cases since, that the act of Congress adopted
the rule of the maritime law as contradistinguished from that
of the English law on this subject; and that the value of the

vessel and freight after, and not before, the collision is to
be taken. But at what precise time after the collision this
value should be taken has not been fully determined so as
to establish a general rule on the subject. That is a question
which deserves some consideration., In the cage of The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, the collision occurred opposite Fire Island
Light, and the steamer, being much injured, put back in order,.
if possible, to return to New York, but was unable to get
further than the middle ground outside and south of Sandy
Hook, where she sank, and nothing was saved but a few strippings, taken from her before she went down. We held that
these strippings were all of the ship that could be valued,
although she had run thirty or forty miles after the collision.
The value was taken, not as it was, or as it might have been
supposed to be, immediately after the collision, but as it was
after the effects of the collision were fully developed in the
sinking of the ship.
An examination of the statute will afford light on this subject. Section 4283 declares that the liability of the owner of
any vessel [for various acts and things mentioned] shall "in no
case" exceed the value of his interest in thevessel and her

THE CITY OF NORWICH,
Opinion of the Court.

freight then pending.

When it says "in no case," does it

mean that for each ease of "embezzlement, loss, destruction,

collision," &c., happening during the whole voyage his liability
may extend to the value of his whole interest in the vessel?
Tventy cases might occur in the course of a voyage, and all at
different times. Does not the provision made in § 428-, for
compensation i)i'o 9'ata to each party injured, apply to all cases
of loss and damage happening during the entire voyage; happening, that is, by the -fault of the master or crew, and without the privity or knowledge of the owner? Pending freight
is of no value to the shipowner until it is earned, and it is not
earned, if earned at all, until the conclusion of the voyage.
Does this not show that every "case " in which the principle
of limited liability is to be applied means every voyage? We
think it does. It seems to us that the fair inference to be
drawn from § 4283 is, that the voyage defines the limits and
boundaries of the casu,, or case, to which the law is to be applied.
This is rendered certain by the language of § 4284, which
is: "Whenever any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction is
suffered by several freighters, or owners of goods, wares, merchandise, or any property whatever, on the same voyage, and
the whole value of-the vessel, and her freightfor the voyage, is
-not sufficient to make compensation to each of them, they shall
receive compensation from the owner of the vessel in proportion to their respective losses." There may be more than one
case of embezzlement during the voyage, and more thai one
case of loss and destruction, and they may happen at different
and successive times, yet they are to be compensated pro 'ata.
This shows conclusively that it must be at the termination of
the "voyage," that the vessel is to be appraised, and the
freight (if any be earned) is to be added to the account for the
purpose of showing the amount of the owner's liability.
This conclusion is corroborated by § 4285, which declares that
it shall be a sufficient compliance with the requirements of the
law if the owner shall transfer his interest in the vessel and
freight to a trustee for the benefit of the claimants. In most
cases this cannot be done until the voyage is ended, for, until

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

-

then, the embezzlement, loss, or destruction of property cannot be known.
And this was manifestly the maritime law, for by that law
the abandonment of the ship and freight (when not lost) was
the remedy of the owners to acquit themselves of liability;
and, of course, this could only be done at the termination of
the voyage. If the ship was lost, and the voyage never completed, the owners were freed from all liability.. Boulay-Paty,
Droit Com. Mar., tit. III. see. 1, vol. I. pp. 263, 275, &c. ;
Rmerigon, Contrats N la grosse, ch. 4, sec. 11, §§ 1, 2; Valin,
Com. lib. II. tit. VIIL art. II.; Consolato del Xare, chs. 34,
(141) 186, (182) 227, (194) 239; 2 Pardessus, Collection des lois
Maritimes ant6rieur an XVIIL Sikcle; Cleirac, Nav. de Rivi~res, art. XV.
If, however, by reason of the loss or sinking of the ship the
voyage is never completed, but is broken up and ended by
causes over which the owners have no control, the value of
the ship (if it has any value) at the time of such breaking up
and ending of the voyage must be taken as the measure of
the owner's liability. In most cases of this character no freight
will be earned; but if any shall have been earned, it will be
added to the value of the ship in estimating the amount of the
owner's liability. These consequences are so obvious that no
attempt at argument can make them any plainer.
If this view is correct, it follows, as a matter of course, that
any salvage operations, undertaken for the purpose of recovering from the bottom of the sea any portion of the wreck, after
the disastrous .ending of the voyage as above supposed, can have
no effect on the question of the liability of the ownerp. Their
liability is fixed when the voyage is ended. The subsequent
history of the wreck can only furnish, evidence of its value at
that point of time. And it makes no difference, in this regard,
whether the salvage is effected by the owners, or by any other
persons. Having fixed the point of time at which the value is
to be taken, the statute does the rest. It declares that the liability of the owner shall in no case exceed the amount or value
of the interest- of such owner in such vessel, and her freight
then pending. "f the vessel arrives in port in a damaged.con-

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Opinion of the Court.

dition, and earns some freight, the value at that time is the
measure of liability; if she goes to the bottom and earns no
freight, the value at that time is the criterion. And the benefit
of the statute may be obtained either by abandoning the vessel
to the creditors or persons injured, or by having her appraisement made and paying the money into court, or giving a stipulation in lieu of it, and keeping the vessel. This double remedy given by our statute is a great convenience to all parties.
It does-not make two measures or standards of liability; for
the measure is the same whichever course is adopted; but it
enables the owner to lay out money in recovering and repairing the ship, without increasing the burden to which he is
subjected.
It follows from this, that the proper valuation of the steamer
was taken in the court below, namely, the value which she had
when she had sunk, and was lying on the bottom of the sea.
That was the termination of the voyage.
The next question to be considered is, whether the petitioners were bound to account for the insurance money received
by them for the loss of the steamer, as a part of their interest
in the same. The statute, § 4283, declares that the liability of
the owner shall not exceed the amount or value of his interest
in the vessel and kerfreight; and § 4285 declares that it shall
be a sufficient compliance with the law, if he shall transfer his
interest in suck vessel andfreight, for the benefit of the claimants, to a trustee. Is insurance an interest in the vessel or
freight insured, within the meaning of the law? That is the
precise question before us.
It seems to us, at first view, that the learned justice who decided the case below was right in holding that the word "interest" was intended to refer to the extent or amount of ownership which the party had in the vessel, such as his aliquot
share, if he was only a part owner, or his contingent interest,
if that was the character of his ownership. He'might be absolute owner of the whole ship, or he might own but a small
fractional part of her, or he might have a temporary or contingent ownership of some kind or to some extent. Whatever
the extent or character of his ownership might be,' that is to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

say, whatever his interest in the ship might be, the amount or
value of that interest was to be the measure of his liability"
This view is corroborated by reference to a rule of law which
we suppose to be perfectly well settled, namely, that the in
surance which a person has on property is not al interest in
the property itself, but is a collateral contract, personaJ to the
insured, guaxanteeing him against loss of the property by fire
or other specified casualty, but not conferring upon him any
interest in the property. That interest he las already, by
virtue of his ownership. If it were not for a rule of public
policy against wagers, requiring insurance to be for indemnity
merely, he could just as well take out insurance on another's
property as on his own, and it is manifest that this would give
him no interest in the property. He would have an interest in
the event of its destruction or non-destruction; but no interest
in the property. A man's inferest in property insured is so
distinct from the insurance, that-unless he has such an interest
independent of the insurance, his policy will be void.
This rule of law manifests itself in various ways. If a mortgagor insures the property mortgaged, the mortgagee has no
interest in the insurance. He may stipulate that the policy
shall be assigned to. him, and the mortgagor may agree to
assign it; and if it be assigned with the insurer's consent, the
mortgagee will then have the benefit of it; or, if not assigned
according to agreement, the mortgagee may have relief in"
equity to obtain the benefit of it.
So where property is sold, the insurance does not follow it,
but ceases to have any value, unless the insurer consent to the
transfer of the policy to the, grantee of the property. In other
words, the contract of insurance does not attach itself to the
thing insured, nor go with it when it is transferred.
It is hardly nebessary to cite authorities for a rule which has
become so elementary. We will only refer to a few of them.
Lord Chancellor King in Lynch v. Da~zell, 4 Bro. P. C. 431,
2d ed., London, 1803 [Vol. 3, p. 497, 1st ed.] ; S. C., 2 Marsh.
on Ins. 801 ; Lord Hardwicke in Sadlers Co. v. Badcock, 2 Atk.
554; Carrollv. Boston, Mfar. Ins. Co., 8 Mass. 515; Cohlmiia
In.

Co. v. -Lawrence,10 Pet. 507, 512; Carpenter v. 1'rov.

THE CITY OF NORWICH.

495'

D)pinion of the Court.

Was. 1M. Co., 16 Pet. 495, 503; -tna Imq. Co. v. Tyler, 16
Wend. 385, 397; Wilson v. Hill, 3 Met. 66, 68; Powlee v.
Inne8, 11 M. & W. 10, 13; 3fc.Donald v. Black, 20 Ohio, 185;
Plympto, v., Ing. Co., 43 Vt. 497. Carroll v. Boston .- arine
As.. Co., Powle8 v. lnnes. and iftcDonad v. Black, were cases
of marine insurance, and the same rule was followed in those
cases as in cases of insurance against fire.
It is not an irrelevant consideration in this regard, that the
owner of the property is under no obligation to have it insured.
It is purely a matter of his own option. And being so, it would
seem to be only fair anct right, and a logical consequence, that
if he chooses to insure, he should have the benefit of the insurance. lie does not take the price of insurance from the thing
insured, but takes it out of the general mass of his estate, to
which his general creditors have a right to look for the satisfaction of -their claims. They are the creditors who have the
best right to the insurance.
Stress is laid upon the hardship of the dase. It is said to be
unjust that the shipowner should be entirely indemnified for
the loss of his vessel, and that the parties who have suffered
loss from the colhsion by'the fault of his employes should get
nothing for their indemnity. This mode of contrasting the
condition of the parties is fallacious. If the shipowner is
indemnified against loss, it is because he has seen fit to provide
himself with in'rance. The parties suffering loss from the
collision could, if they chose, protect themselves in the same
way. In fact, they generally do so; and when they do, it
become. a question between their insurers and the shipowner
whether they or lie shall have the benefit of his insurance.
His insurers hve to pay his loss. Why should not the insurers
of the other parties pay their loss? The truth is, th Lt the
whole question, after all, comes back to this: Whether a
limited liability of shipowners is consonant to public policy or
not. Congress has declared that it is, and they, and not we,
are th judges of that question.
Having, as we think, ascertained the true construction of the
statute, the point in dispate is really settled. It is a question
of construction, and does not require an examination of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

general maritime law to determine it. If the rule of the maritime law is different, the statute must prevail. But from such
examination as we have been able to make, we think that the
weight of maritime authority is in accord with the disposition
of our statute as we have construed it, and that the statute has
adopted the maritime law on this point as well as on the question of time for estimating the value of the ship.
The contract of insurance is of modern origin. It is not mentioned in the early treatises or compilations of maritime law.
It is but little noticed prior to the sixteenth century. On a
question like the present we naturally turn to the French writers, who are distinguished for their great learning and acumen
on maritime subjects. The principal text law on which they
rely, prior to the Code of Commerce adopted in the present
century, is the Ordonnance de la Marine of 1681. By this ordinance it is declared that the owners of ships shall be responsible for the acts of the master: but they shall be discharged
therefrom by abandoning their vessel and the freight. The
Code of Commerce, Art. 216, has substantially the same provision. Beyond this general declaration (which is simply an
announcement of the maritime law on the subject), the special
rules applicable to particular cases, and necessary for securing
the benefit of the general rule in all, had to be drawn from
the general principles of the same maritime law. Whether in
abandoning the ship to the creditors, the owners are, or are
not, obliged to abandon the insurance effected on the ship, is
a question which had to be decided by the application of the
general principles referred to.
The history of opinion amongst maritime writers on this subject is briefly this: Valin and Emerigon, two great French jurists, contemporaries and friends, wrote on the maritime law. In
1760 Valin published his New Commentary on the Ordinance of
the Marine of 1681. In 17S3 Rnerigon published his Treatise
on Assurances and Contracts of Bottomry. (Trait6 des Assurances et des Contrats Ala grosse.) Emerigon furnished Walin
a large portion of the materials of which the latter's commentary was composed. Both of them are regarded as great
authorities on maritime law. These jurists differed on the

THE CITY OF NORWICH.

497~

Opinion of the Court.

question we,are considering. Valin thought that those who
furnished materials and supplies for a ship, and those who labored on its construction or repair, should have the power of
transferring their lien on the vessel to the insurance money
received by the owner for its loss. He reasons that this should
be so because the material men and the workmen helped to
make the thing which forms the subject of the insurance;
whilst he admits that the Parlement of Bordeaux had decided otherwise as late as September, 1758. So that the views
expressed by Valin seem to be his opinion of what the law
ought to be rather than what it was. .(Valin Com., vol. I. 315,
316, lib. I. tit. XII. art. III.)

merigon strenuously opposes Valin's opinion. His reasons
are, that liens are stlictijuris,and are not to be extended by
construction; that if Valin's rule is well founded, a vendor on
credit would have a lien on the price arising on a subsequent
sale of the same thing by his vendee after the thing itself had
ceased to exist, which was contrary to repeated decisions: that,
by stronger reason, material men and workmen have no lien on
the assurance of a ship which never belonged to them, for
there is nothing essentially common between the right of
pledge and that of property; that the ordinance gives no privilege to the material men and workmen, except on the ship, and,
therefore, they have none on the insurance according to the
rule of strict construction already stated; that if the ship were
represented by the insurance, it would be necessary to give the
same privilege to the seamen and all other privileged creditors,
which~voull deshroy the whole object of insurance; that, on
the same principle, insurance ought to be represented by reinsurance, which, it is well settled, cannot be done. Rinerigon,
Contrats a la grosse, ch. 12, see. 7.
The opinion of Rmerigon was followed with but little disseit until a recent period. The most prominent writer who
disagreed with him was Pardessus, who, in the first edition of
his Droit Commercial, published in 1814, (Art. 663,) after stating the'general rule that the owner may discharge himself
from responsibility by abandoning the ship and freight, added:
"If these things have been insured, he ought to abandon also
VOL. cxvm-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

his rights against- the inisurers." This sentiment is repeated as
his personal opinion in the subsequent editions of his work,
(same art. 663,) but he is obliged to concede that the 'law is
otherwise. In the edition of 1841, article 594, 2d, after asking
the question whether a creditor, having a privilege or a hypothecation on a thing insdred; could require a distribution of
the insurance money as would be made of the price on a sale,
he says: "I think not; 'there is not the same reason. In the
ease of sale the price must, in the nature of things, represent
the thing sold, the owner parting with it only for that; in the
-case of insurance the thing has perished; it has not been assigned in consideration of any price. The debtor basprocuied,
it is true, a guaranty, by the effect of which the insnrer pays
him the value of it; but this guaranty is the result of an agreement independent of the engagements of the assured with iny
particular creditors. The value paid does not r' present the
thing insured, except in the relations between the insurer and
the insured; not in the relation between the latter and.hi
creditors, except as an accession to the mass of' his, property
against which 'the creditors may prosecute their actions according to the principle of the civil law, by which all the prop.
erty 'of a debtor is the common pledge of his creditors 'r u
without any preference, none of them having a peculiar right
to a privilege on the contract of insurance which has caused
the amount assured to be added to the assets of the 'common
debtor. It would be otherwise, undoubtedly, if the debtor, in
borrowing upon a hypothecation of a house insured, should at
the same time assign to his creditor the contiugent benefits of
the insurance to serve for his discharge to that extent, and if
the creditor should duly notify the insurer," &c.
This passage shows that even Pardessus admitted the law to
be as ]merigon had declared it.
]Boulay-Paty, the contemporary of Pardessus, who published
his work on Maritime Commercial Law (Droit Commercial
Maritime) in 1821, warmly espouses the views of. Emerigon.
His observations on the subject are exceedingly sen'sible and
persuasiv. After quoting the views of Valin and ]2merigon,
he says: "We must agree that Pimerigon's opinion is most
-

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Opinion of the Court.

conformable to principle, and that the transfer or subrogation
of which Valin speaks is not admissible," that is, the transfer
of the lien from the property to the insurance. He adds:
"The axiom 2uirogaturm tenet locum sbrooati should be understood as applicable, when the thing has been changed into
something else by the owner, who has -keceiv'ed the other thing
-in
its place, as in the case when the owner of a ship has ' old
it, it is certain that the lien is transferred according to undoubted law to the price. But when ihe thing is perished in
the hands of the debtor certainly all lien is extinct. (L 8 ff
qibus 'modis j2gnus vel hypotheca solvitur.) Is it possible to
suppose that an insurance, which is an agreement, foreign to
the creditors holding liens, which has been effected between
the owners and a third party, can have the Affect to bring
again into life the lien on the ship?" (Vol. I'I,' 135§ He goes on to argue the question at great length, and with
much force; but it would extend this opinion too much to
quote his argument at length. One more extract will suffice.
After showing the difference between abandonment to the lien
creditors and surrender to the insurers, and that the latter does
not interfere with or prevent the former, he says:
"The product of the insurance is the price of the premium
which the shipowner has paid to insure the ship. This premium is not bound as a security for debts and obligations contracted by the captain; the law expressly binds the ship and
freight alone to that. The Code of Commerce gives to shippers a lien only on ship and freight, consequently they have
none on the insurance. In general the ship is not represented
by the insurance, which, after the loss of the ship, becomes 'a
right existing by itseif, which gives a direct personal action in
favor of the insured.
"All these principles, besides, agree with equity and the
well understood interests of commerce. Without this rule, indeed, ins irances on the hull of a ship would become illusory
for her owner, since he would have no waly, even by stipulating .for a guaranty against barratry of the master, which it is
customary to do, to protect himself against any other loss than
that of the premium; an&.-*et this isboth the object of in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

surance and the motive for which the premium is paid." Vol.
I. pp. 291, 292.
During the seven years from 1827 to 1834, an animated controversy was carried on in France on the question whether Article 216 of the Code of Commerce, in speaking of the "acts"
(faits) of the master, meant to include his contracts lawfully
made in the course of the voyage, or only his wrongful acts;
and finally the matter carne before the legislative body for solution. In 1841 that body modified Article 216 so as to expresslyembrace contracts of the master, as well as other acts.
It was, at the same time, sought to introduce a clause which
should render it the owner's duty, in abandoning the ship and
freight to obtain the benefit of limited liability, also to abandon
his claim for insurance on them; but this provision failed to
receive assent. The law remained as it had always been.
In 1S59 two very able works were published in France in
which the subject was again discussed; one by Edmund Dufour,
entitled Droit Maritime, and one by J. B4darride, entitled
Droit Commercial, a commentary on the Code de Commerce.
Dufour attempted to renew the controversy, although he admitted that the views of ]merigon had been acquiesced in even
by Pardessus, and that YValin stood alone. He says: "Doctrine and jurisprudence, after some hesitation, pronounced themselves, as is well known, against the existence of a privilege or
hypothecation on the indemnity due from the insurer; and in
that way the general principle which Rmerigon had adopted as
the basis of his theory penetrated men's minds as an indisputable truth which ought thenceforth to govern all indemnities
of insurance. Thus it is, for example, that M. Pardessus, speaking of this question in relation to maritime credits, comes back
-for its solution to the general principles relating to insurance.
So that the opinion of Valin seems to be crushed under this
imposing unanimity." Dufour, Droit Maritime, Art. 261.
Dufour then devptes many pages to argue the question ab
origiae, persuading-himself that he has established the correctness of Valin's views. But his admission at the beginning of
his argument demonstrates that the maritime jurisprudence of
France was in accordance with the opinion of ]inerigon.

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Opinion of the Court.

In consequence, probably, of this effort to bring the-matter
again into question, Bedarride examined the subject with great
care, both on principle and authority, and showed that the law
was not only settled, bht shduld not be disturbed. I.edarride,
Droit Commercial, Art. 295. 'But the advocates- of change persisted in their efforts, until finally, on the 22d of December, 1874,
on the passage of a law to render ships susceptible of hypothecation, they procured a section to bb inserted (see. 17) declaring
that, in case of loss or disablement of. the ship, the rights of the
creditors [that is, hypothecation creditors] may be enforced,
not only against the portions saved, or their proceeds, but (in
the order of registry) against the proceeds of any assurances
that may have been effected by the borrower on"the hypothecated ship. This law, however, does not -extend to tacit liens
or privileges.
For further authorities in the French law, to the same effect
as Boulay-Paty and 1B3darride, see Pouget, Principes de Droit
Mar., vol. 2, pp. 415-419, ed. 1858; loy et Guerrand, Capitaines, Mait. et Pat. vol. 3, art. 1894 (1860); Caumont, Dict. de
Droit Mar., tit. Abandon XTar. § 54, 55; de Villeneuve et
Mass6, Diet. du Contentieux Commercial; A'mateur, 20.
In Germany the history of the -question has been, to some
extent, the reverse of what it has been'in France. The Prussian Code, adopted in 1794, allowed shipowners to "free themselves from responsibility in all cases by a surrender of the ship,'
including all benefits of the voyage and their rights against the
insurers." But Prussia was the only country that adopted this
rule in relation to insurance. In 1856 a scheme was set on foot
to have a conference to prepare a general commercial code for
all the German states. Commissioners were appointed by the
several states for this purpose, who held repeated sessions, but
came to no agreement on a general code until March, 1862.
The Prussian commissioners strenuously urged the adoption of
their law on the subject of subrogation to the claims for insurance. The arguments presented by them are spread before -us
at some length in one of the briefs of the counsel for the appellants. The convention, however, were not convinced, and
rejected the proposition, and the Prussian commissioners were

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

obliged to yield the point, and now all Germany, under this
new commercial code, adheres to the old maritime law. It is
only necessary to add that, in the discussions of the convention
it was conceded that the maritime law had never required the
surrender of the insurance, but only that of the ship and freight.
By the commercial code of Holland and the ordinance of Bremen this rule is expressly formulated.
It appears, therefore, that the disposition of our statute is in conformity with'the general maritime law of Europe; and that the
recent legislation in France(1874)isan innovation upon that law.
It is next contended that the act of Oongress does not extend
to the exoneration of the ship, but only exonerates the owners
by a surrender of the ship and freight, and, therefore, that the
plea of limited liability cannot be received in a proceeding in
'em. But this argument'overlooks the fact that the law gives
a.twofold remedy-surrender of the ship, or- payment of its
-value; and declares that the liability of the owner, in the cases
provided for, .shahl not exceed the amount or value of his interest in the ship and freight. This provision is absolute, and
the owner may have the benefit of it, not only by a surrender
of the ship and freight, but by paying into court the amount
'of their value, appraised as of the time when the liability is
fixed. This, as we have seen, enables the owner to reclaim
the ship, and put it into complete repair, without increasing
the amount of his liability. The absolute declaratjon of the
statute, that his liability shall not exceed the amount or value

of the ship and freight, to wit, at the termination of the voyage, has the effect, when that amount is paid into court, under
judicial sanctiop, of discharging the owner's liability, and
thereby of extinguishing the liens on the vessel itself and of
transferring those liens to the fund in court. This is always
the result when the owner is allowed to bond his vessel by
payment of its appraised value into court, or by filing a stipulation with sureties in lieu of such payment. The vessel is
always discharged from the liens existing upon it, when it has
been subjected to a judicial sale by order of the admiralty
court, or when it has been delivered to the owner on his stipulation with sureties.

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Opinion of the Court.

The claim that the lien attaches to the repairs and betterments which the owner puts upon the vessel after the amount
of his liability has been fixed is repugnant to the entire drift
and spirit of the statute. In ordinary cases it may be true,
and undoubtedly is true, that a lien or privilege on the ship
extends to and aiffects all its accretions by repair or otherwise;
but in the case of a claim for limited liability under the statute,
the dispositions of the statute are to govern; and these, as we
have seen, fix the amount of liability at a cerdain time; and
when that liability is discharged the lien is discharged, no matter what the then value of the ship may have come to be by
means of alterations and repairs.
The time when the amount of liability should be paid into
court will depend upon circumstances. If the owner sets up
his claim to limited liability in his answer, and does not seek
a general concurrence of creditors, it will be sufficient if the,
amount is paid after the trial of the cause and the ascertainment of the amount of liability in the decree. Payment and
satisfaction of the decree will be a discharge of the owner as
against all creditors represented in the decree.
To say that an owner is not liable, but that his vessel is
liable, seems to us like talking in riddles. A man's liability for
a demand against him is measured by the amount of property
that may be taken from him to satisfy that demand. In the
matter of liability, a man and his property cannot be separated,
unless where, for public reasons, the law exempts particular
kinds of property from seizure, such as the tools of a mechanic,
the homestead of a family, &c. His property is what those
who deal with. him rely on for the fulfilment of his obligations. Personal arrest and restraint, when resorted to, are
merely means of getting at his property. Certain parts of his
property may become solely and exclusively liable for certain
demands, as a ship bound in bottomry, or subject to seizure for
contraband cargo or illegal trade; and it nay even be called
the "guilty thing; " but the liability of the thing is so exactly
the owner's liability, that a discharge or pardon extended to
him will operate as a release of his property. It is true, that
in Un, d State' v. Ma6on, 6 Bissell, 350, it was held that in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeding in rem for a forfeiture of goods, the owner might
be compelled to testify, because the suit is not against him but
against the goods. That decision, however, was disapproved by
this court in the case of Boy(l v. Uniteid States, 116 U. S. 616,
637, in which it is said: "Kor can we assent to the proposition
that the proceeding [in rem] is not, in effect, a proceeding
against the owner of the property as well as against the goods;
for it is his breach of the laws which has to be proved to establish the forfeiture, and it is his property which is sought to be
forfeited. In the words of a great judge, 'Goods, as goods,
cannot offend, forfeit, unlade, pay duties, or the like, but men
whose goods they are.' Vaughan, 0. J., in S]Weppard v. Gosnold, Vaughan 159, 172; approved by Ch. Baron Parker in
3Iitcell v. Torup, Parker 227, 236."
But the argument is at war with the spirit as well as the text
of our decisions on the subject of limited liability. The case of
Die Benefactor, 102 M- S. 214; S. .103 U. S. 239, is precisely
in pcint. That was a case of libel in reem against the vessel in
fault, and the proceeding for a limited liability was sustained.
It is true that this particular point was not raised; but the
parties in the case were represented by able and experienced
counsel, and the point would certainly have been raised if they
had regarded it as tenable.
We are not only satisfied that the law does not compel the
shipowner to surrender his insurance in order to have the
benefit of limited liability, but that a contrary result would
defeat the principal object of the law. That object was to
enable merchants to invest money in ships without subjecting
them to an indefinite hazard of losing their whole property by
the negligence or misconduct of the master or crew, but only
subjecting them to the loss of their investment. Now, to construe the law in such a manner as to prevwnt the merchant
from contracting with an insurance company for indemnity
against the loss of his investment is contrary to the spirit of
commercial jurisprudence. Why should he not be allowed to
purchase such an indemnity? Is it against public policyI
That cannot be, for public policy would equally condemn all
insurance by which a man provides indemnity for himself

THE CITY OF NORWICH.
Ppinion of the Court.

against the risks of fire, losses at sea, and other casualties. To
hold that this cannot be done tends to discourage those who
might otherwise be willing to invest their money in the shipping business. It would virtually and in effect bring back the
law to the English rule, by which the owner is made liable for
the value of the ship before collision-the very thing which, in
all our decisions on the subject, we have held it was the intention of Congress to avoid by adopting the maritime rule.
That thiswould be the result is evident, because all shipowners insure the greater part of their interest in the ship, and by
losing their insurance they would lose the value of their ship in
every case. No form of agreement could be framed by which
they could protect themselves. 'This is a result entirely
foreign to the spirit of our legislation.
When it was urged upon the Chamber of Peers of France,
in 1841, to pass a law requiring the abandonment of insurance,
as well as of ship and freight, in order to relieve the owner from
liability, the suggestion was not entertained. The opinion of
the majority was, that the relations between the shipowner
and lenders or shippers ought to remain entirely independent
of contracts of insurance which either could make; that an obligation to abandon insurance would have no other tendency
than to prevent insurance by the owner, since he would be deprived of the benefit of it in case of loss. B6darride, art. 295,
voL 3, p. 361.
The argument that to allow the owner to keep his insurance
would encourage negligence and recklessness on his part, can
always be made in every case of insurance. It has been made
and answered a hundred times. Generally a sufficient portion
of the value of the thing insured remains uncovered by insurance to prevent indifference to loss; and if the temptation to
wish it does exist in any case, the retributions are so fearful as
to repress the thought. To the honor of human nature the
exceptions to the rule are exceedingly rare.
It is also contended that the right to proceed for a limited
liability is waived and lost by a surrender of the vessel to the
insurers, because it is then out of the owner's power to abandon
the ship to the claimants who have liens upon her. This

506

OCTOBER .TERM, .1885.
Opinion of the Court.

argument assumes that abandonment is necessary, which is
not the case under our law. Payment 9 f the ship's value into
court, or settifig up the matte'r as a defence, is quite as efficacious. But if abandonment were necessary, as it is by the
maritime law, a surrender to the insurers does not interfere
with, or prevent, a subsequent abandonment to the creditors.
The 'Insurers take the ship'cum onere, and stand in no better
plight than the briginal owners. The liens against the ship are
not extinguished by the surrender to the insurers, but may be
,prosecuted by the creditors, notwithstanling such surrender',
'
unless 1 roceediugs for a limited liability are instituted. This
is fully shown by Boulay-Paty, vol. 1, pp. 291-297, and by
B3darride, in Article 291 of his work, before cited. The former,
after'showing that abatidbnment to the lien creditors may be
nlade notwithstanding a previous surrender to the insurers, and
explaining the reason of it, says: "It follows from thence
-.that the owner may, by abandonment, turn the shippers (of
cargo) ov~r to the insurers, (.now become the owners by the
surrender of the ship and freight to them), and thus make
abandonment and surrender at the same time." 1 Boulay-Paty,
295.
This disposes of all the important points in the case, and
leads to the conclusion that the decree .of the Circuit Court was
right, and it is

Mr. JUsTxcE MArrHEws, with whom concurred Mr. JUsTicE
Mr. JUsTIOE HARLAN, and Mr. JUsTicE GRAY, dissented.
Their dissenting opinion will be found at page 526 Po8t, after
the opinion of the court in The Great Western.
MILLEn,

