OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

deliberately re-enacted the provision of ยง 3314 allowing commissions to the collectors without meaning anything by it; for
the case of the appellants cannot be sustained unless-we virtually expunge from the' statute book, after it had ex indu8trn
been put there by Congress, the prdvision allowing to the col
lectors commissions on taxes collected by the sale of tax-paid
spirit stamps.
Judmen affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued April 15, 1886.-Decided April 26, 1886.

A bill quia timet to remove a cloud from a legal title cannot ordinarily be
brought in the courts of the United States by one not in possession of the
real estate in controversy: but when a local statute of the State authorizes
a bill in equity in such case, the remedy allowed in State courts may also
be enforced in Federal courts ; aid when a cloud upon the title to real
estate prevents the enforcement of a lien at law to secure the payment of
money, then the creditor may have his bill to remove the cloud.

In equity. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mf'. A88z8tang Attomey-General Tfaug-y for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the United States, June 6,
1878, to which were made defendants the widow, personal
representatives, and heirs-at-law of E. L. Allen, deceased, and
C. S. Wilson, the appellee, and John T. Gill.
The material allegations of the bill are, that in the year
1867 there was a firm of distillers in Lincoln County, Tennessee, under the name of Alexander & Co., of which E. L.
Allen, since deceased, was a "member; that the said firm

Mr. JUSTICE

UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

became indebted to the United States in the sum of $3057.16
for taxes and penalties, which were duly assessed on the July
list for 1867; that failing to pay the same, as required by law,
the proper collector of internal revenue, on January 21, 1876,
issued a distress warrant for the collection-of the same, which,
there not being a sufficiency of goods and chattels of the firm
or either of the partners, was, on January 22, 1876, levied on
all the right, title, claim, and interest of the said E. L. Allen,
in and to certain real estate in said county of Lincoln, particularly described in the bill; that, pursuant to law, all pr6per
notices having been previously given, the said premises were
offered for sale at the court-house door, in the town of Fayetteville, on March 25, 1876, when said lots and parcels of land
were offered separately at the minimum price placed on each,
and no person offering to take them or either of them at said
price, the same were purchased by the United States in accordance with the statutes in such cases made and provided;
that no one appearing to redeem said lands within the time provided by law, on September 29, 1877, the collector of internal
revenue, then in office in said district, conveyed to the United
States by deed, under and by virtue of said assessment, distress-warrant, levy, and sale, all the interest in said lands of the
said Allen, of which, at the time said taxes became due and were
payable, it is averred the said Allen was owner in fee, holding
the legal title thereto; that notwithstanding said taxes were a
lien on said lands from the time the same became due and payable, the said Allen and the said Wilson conspired and confederated to hinder, delay, and defraud the United States in the
collection of said taxes, and, in pursuance of said conspiracy and
confederacy, on January 14, 1876, the said Allen made a pretended sale and conveyance of said tracts of land by deed
to the said Wilson; that the said deed purported on its face
to be an absolute conveyance in fee, and was duly registered
and recorded as such, but the same was not so in fact, there
being a secret agreement between the.parties thereto by which
it was converted into an assignment with benefits reserved to
said Allefi, and was made for the purpose of hindering, delaying,
and defrauding the United States in the collection of said, taxes,

OCTOBER TERM 1885.
Opinion of: the dourt.

the said Allen being at the time insolvent, and the property
conveyed being all his property subject tW execution, and the
conveyance to Wilson being, therefore, an assignment of all his
effects by an insolvent debtor of the United States within the
meaning of ยง 3466 of the Revised Statutes of the United States;
that since this assignment and since the sale to the United
States, the defendant Gill claims to have acquired an interest
under Wilson in the said real estate.
The prayer of the bill is that the conveyance by Allen to
Wilson be declared fraudulent and void; that the paramount
lien .of .the United States in said laud for the said taxes
be. adjudged. and declared; that the priority of the United
States be maintained and decreed, and the pretended conveyance of Allen to Wilson be removed as a cloud upon their title;
an account for rentg and: profits, and a writ of possession to
put the complainants in possession, and for general relief.
The defendants answered, denying the legality of the tax
and its assessment and the regularity of the steps taken for its
enforcement, and the validity of the' sA.e and conveyance to
the United States, and denying all the allegations of fraud and
trust in reference to the conveyance from Allen to 'Wilson,
insisting that the same was an absolute conveyance, made in
good faith and for .a vaduable consideration.- The case was put
at issue .by a replication and heard upon the pleadings and
proof. .-The Circuit, CQurt, finding the preponderance of evidence against the allegation of a d'emand of payment of the
tax, penalty and interest, as recguired by ยง 3185 of the Revised
Statutes, and that the title set up by the United State's had
failed, dismissed the bill. From this decree the United States
has appealed.
Without examining the ground on which the Circuit Court
proceeded, we are of opinion that the bill was rightly dismissed.
The case as made by it is not one of equitable cognizance. It
is not a creditor's bill. The United States do not set forth a
debt due and a lien on the land of the debtor, which it seeks to
subject to the payment of the debt by a sale, and to marshal
the liens thereon. The debt originally due by virtie of the
assessment of the tax has been merged in the tax sale and the

UNITED STATES v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

purchase in pursuance thereof. The United States claim, and,
if the allegations of the bill can be supported by proof, own
the legal title to the lands described, a title paramount to that
under which the appellee claims; for the deed to the United
States conveys, if it is effective, the title which Allen had when
the tax was assessed in July, 1867, and operates by relation
from that time. Having the legal title, then, but being kept
out of possession by defendants holding adversely, the remedy
of the United States is at law to recover possession. Equity
in such cases has no jurisdiction, unless its aid is required to
remove obstacles which prevent a successful resort to an action
of ejectment, or when, after repeated actions at law, its jurisdiction is invoked to prevent a multiplicity of suits, or there
are other specific equitable grounds for relief. Bills quia timet,
such as this is, to remove a cloud from a legal title, cannot be
brought by one not in possession of the real estate in controversy, because the law gives a remedy by ejectment, which is
plain, adequate and complete. This is the familiar doctrine of
this court. Hipp v. Babin, 19 How. 271; Ellis v. Davis, 109
U. S. 485; R0llkan, v. Ebbinghaus,110 U. S. 568; Fussell v.
Gregg, 113 U. S. 550, 555.
The case of TMard v. 0ltam erlain, 2 Black, 430, 444, was
one of a creditor's bill, where the complainant, having a lIen
on the real estate of the defendant, by virtue of a decree in
admiralty, for the payment of money, was held, as in other
cases of creditors by judgment or decree, to be entitled to the
aid of a court of equity to remove a cloud upon the title-which
obstructed or prevented the enforcement at law of his lien.
The jurisdiction is invoked in such cases because it is necessary
to give to the complainant the benefit of his remedy at law,
which, without it, is not plain, adequate and complete.
Where the local statute gives the remedy by a bill in equityto remove a cloud upon the legal title, without requiring the
complainant to obtain prior possession, that remedy, it is admitted, may be administered in appropriate cases by the courts
of the United States. Holland v. Cltallen 110 U. S. 15; Reynold8 v. Craiyiord6ville Bank, 112 U. S. 405; CMapnan v.
Brewer, 114 U. S. 158.

