OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

HART v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROO

THE COURT 'OF CLAIMS.

Argued Ma.ch 25, 1886.-Decided April 26, 1886.

Under section 7 of the act of June 25, 1868, ch. 71, 15 Stat. 76, the Secretary
of War transmitted a claim against the United States to the Court of
Claims. That court found the claimant to be a person who had If sustained
the late rebellion," and. that the claim accrued before April 13, 1861, and
as the payment of such a claim was forbidden by joint resolution No. 46,
approved March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 571, it decided that it had no jurisdiction
to proceed to judgment on the reference made, but could only find the facts
and dismiss the petition: Held, no error.
Although, before the joint resolution was passed, the claimant had received
from the President a pardon "for all offences committea by him arising
from participation, direct or implied, in the rebellion," the pardon did not
authorize the payment of the claim, nor did the joint resolution take away
anything which the pardon had conferred.
The case distinguished, as to the effect of the pardon, from Exyarte Garland,
4 Wall. 333; Armstrong'8 Foundry, 6 Wail. 766; United States v. Padel.
ford, 9 Wall. 531; United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, and Carlisle v.
United States, 16 Wall. 147, 151.
The act of 1868 did n3t extend to claims covered by the joint resolution.

The case is stated in the-opinion of the court.
Atr JoAn.J

eed for appellant.

X7fr. Soioitor-Generalfor appellee submitted on his brief.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 7 of the act of Congress, approved June 25, 1868,
ch. 71, 15 Stat. 76, enacted as follows: "It shall and. may be
lawful for the head of any executive department, whenever
any claim is made upon said department involving disputed
facts or controverted questions of law, where the amount in
controversy exceeds three thousand dollars; or where the
decision will affect a class of cases or furnish a precedent for
the future action of any executive department in the adjustment of a class of cases, without regard to the amount involved in the particular case; or where any authority, right,
M . JUSTICE BLATCHFo D

EART v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

privilege, or exemption is claimed or denied under the Constitution of the United States; to cause such claim, with all the
vouchers, papers, proofs and documents pertaining thereto, to
be transmitted to the Court of Claims, and the same shall be
there proceeded in as if originally commenced by the voluntary action of the claimant. . . . Provided, however, That
no case shall be referred by any head of a department unless
it belongs to one of the several classes of cases to which, by
reason of the subject-matter and character, the said Court of
Claims might, under existing laws, talke jurisdiction on such
voluntary action of the claimant. And all the cases mentioned
in this section which shall be transmitted by the bead of any
executive department, . . . shall be proceeded in as other
cases pending in said court, and shall, in all respects, be subject
to the same rules and regulations; and appeals from the final
judgments or decrees of said court therein to the Supreme Court
of the United States shall be allowed in the manner now provided by law. The amount of the final judgments or decrees
in such cases so transmitted to said court, where rendered in
favor of the claimants, shall in all cases be paid out of any
specific appropriation applicable to the same, if any such there
be; and where no such appropriation exists, the same shall be
paid in the same manner as other judgments of said court."
These provisions are now embodied in sections 1063, 1064 and
1065 of the :Revised Statutes.
Under them the Secretary of War, on the 14th of October,
1873, transmitted to the Court of Claims the claim of Henry
B. Hart, as the assignee of Simeon Hart. Thereupon, on the
9th of January, 1874, Simeon Hart, for the use of Henry B.
Hart, filed in that court a petition, claiming to recover from
the United States $50,391.52. In July, 1874, the United
States filed a plea setting up a counter-claim of $9000 against
Simeon Hart, and in August, 1874, a plea setting up a bar by
a six years' limitation after the first accruing of the clIim. In
December, 1874, Simeon Hlart having died, the suit was
revived in the name of A.: B. Hyde, as his administrator. In
January, 1877, the claimant emurred to the plea of the statute
of. limitation, and the demurrer was sustained. 12 C. Cl.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

319. On the 9th of May, 1877, the claimant filed an amended
petition, to which, three days afterwards, the United States
filed a traverse, and a plea setting up a bar by a six years'
limitation. In October, 1878, the claimant replied to the plea
of couinter-claim, that the $9000 had been paid by Simeon
Hart. In November, 1879, the United States, by leave of
court, filed a special demurrer to the petition and the
amended petition, but it was overruled. In June, 1880, James
P. Hague, as administrator of Simeon Hart, and successor of
Hyde, was substituted in place of Hyde, as claimant. At the
same time the claimant filed an amended petition, praying
that- any assignment of the claim to Henry B. Hart be treated
as void, and withdrawing items four and five of the claim contained in the original petition.
The case was then heard, on the evidence, and on the 7th of
June, 1880, the court filed its findings of fact and conclusions
of law, and an opinion, 15 0.01. 414, whereby the petition was
dismissed, and a judgment to that effect was entered on that
day. In January, 1881, a motion for a new trial was granted,
and the case was reheard, on additional evidence, and on the
16th of May, 1881, the court filed its findings of fact and conclusions of law, and an opinion, 16 0. C1. 459, whereby the petition was dismissed, and a judgment to that effect was entered
on that day, from which the claimant appealed. Since the
appeal Juan S. Hart, as administrator, in place of Hague, has
been substituted as appellant.
The findings of fact, on the second hearing, which are quite
voluminous, are set forth at length in the report in 16 0. 01.
Those which are material, in the view we take of the case, are
as follows: On the 3d of March, 1861, Simeon Hart was residing at El Paso, Texas, and was. in active sympathy with those
who were inciting to rebellion. In April, 1861, he joined the
insurgents, and then and afterwards furnished them with supplies, money, and means of transportation to carry on their
invasion and campaign into New Mexico. On the 3d of November, 1865, the President granted to him a full pardon and
amnesty for all offences committed by him arising from participation, direct or implied, in the rebellion. Hart claimed cer-

HART v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the ComU.

tain sums as due to him for flour, corn, an-d forage delivered
to the United States before April 13, 1861, and certain sums
for flour, corn, and forage delivered after that date. There is
nothing due from the United States to the claimant for flour
delivered after April 13, 1861; and the United States paid to
Hart, or his assignees, for flour alleged to have been delivered
after April 13, 1861, but never delivered, more than the
amounts elaimed as due for corn and forage, those payments being made partly in cash, and partly by retaining
and charging against him the $9000 so set up as a counterclaim.
The Court of Claims applied to those demands of the claimant which accrued before April 13, 1861, the provisions of joint
resolution No. 46, approved Mfarch 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 571, now
embodied in section 3480 of the Revised Statutes, and which
was as follows: " Until otherwise ordered, it shall be unlawful
for any officer of the United States government -o pay any
account, claim, or demand against said government, which
accrued or existed prior to the thirteenth day of April, A.D.
eighteen hundred and sixty-one, in favor of any person who
promoted, encouraged, or in any manner sustained the late
rebellion; or in favor of any person who, during said rebellion,
was not known to be opposed thereto, and distinctly in favor
of its suppression; and no pardon heretofore granted, or hereafter to be granted, shall authorize the payment of such account, claim, or demand, until this resolution is modified or
repealed: Provided, That this resolution shall not be construea
to prohibit the payment of claims founded upon contracts
made by any of the departments, where such claims were assigned or contracted to be assigned prior to April first, eighteen
hunezed and sixty-one, to creditors of said contractors, loyal
citizens -of loyal States, in payment of debts incurred prior to
March first, eighteen hundred and sixty-one."
It was urged before the Court of Claims that the pardon and
amnesty granted by.the President to Hart, on the 3d of November, 1865, "for all offences committed by him arising from
participation, direct or implied, in the rebellion," operated to
set aside the provisions of the joint resolution as to him and
VOL. cxvn--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

his claims. The court held otherwise. Its view was, that Hart
was guilty of numerous acts for which he could, on conviction,
have been punished in his person and his property, and that
the pardon freed him from liability for those offences; that his
disability to receive from the United States a debt due to him
was not a consequence attached to or arising out of any such
offence; that it grew out of the fact stated in the joint resolution, that he had been a public enemy; that every disability
which a state of war imposed upon him was removed by the
cessation of the war; that it needed no pardon to effect that
result; that, as the pardon conferred on him no new right, so
the joint resolution did not take from him anything which the
pardon had conferred; that it did not, like the legislation considered'in Urnited States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, attempt to precribe to the judiciary the effect to be given to a pardon, in regard to a matter to which the pardon extended, but merely
forbade certain debts to be paid until Congress should otherwise
order; that a creditor of the United States can only be paid in
accordance with the provision of the Constitution, Art. 1, sec.
9, subd. 7, which declares that "no money shall be drawn from
the Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by
law;" thatby this joint resolution Congress had declared, by
lawi, that this claimant should draw no money from the Treasury, and that no general appropriation should extend to his
claim; that, therefore no executive department could consider
the claim; that the act of 1868 did not extend to claims covered by the joint resolution; and that, as the claim in question
could not be paid, the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction to
proceed to judgment in regard to it, on the reference made.
The views of the court were set forth at great length in the
opinion, and its conclusion was, that as to all items which
accrued prior to April 13, 1861, it was its duty to decline to
take jurisdiction further than to find the facts.
As to the items for flour and corn and forage furnished after
April 13, 1861, the court held, on the facts it found, that there
was nothing due to the claimant for flour delivered after
that date; and that the United States had paid Hart, or his
assignees, for flour alleged to have been delivered after

HART v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that date, but never delivered, more than the amounts now
claimed to be due for corn and forage.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Court of Claims
was right. In approving, as we do, the reasons above cited as
assigned by that court, for the view it took on the question of
the pardon, we do not depart, in the least, from what was held,
on the subject of pardons, in the cases of .Exparte Garland,4
Wall. 333 ; Aenmstrong's Foundry,6 Wall. 766; United Statesv.
Padelford,9 Wall. 531 ; United States v. Klein, 13 Wali. 128;
and Cuarl!6,e v. United States, 16 Wall. 147, 151. If the joint
resolution had said nothing on the subject of a pardon, no pardon could have bad the effect to authorize the payment out of
a general appropriation, of a debt which a law of Congress had
said should not be paid out of it. The pardon cannot have
such effect ascribed to it merely because the joint resolution
says that it shall not have such effect. It was entirely within
the competency of Congress to declare that the claims mentioned in the joint resolution should not be paid till the further
order of Congress. It is now within its competency to declare
that they may be paid, in like manner as, by the act of
March 3, 1877, ch. 105, 19 Stat. 362, it provided that section
3480 of the Revised Statutes, which is the joint resolution in
question, should not apply to payments to be made out of a
general appropriation made by that act to pay mail contractors
for mail service performed in ertain States in 1859, 1860, and
1861, and before they "respectively engaged in war against
the United States."
As to the claims which accrued after April 13, 1861, we see
no reason to question the correctness of the judgment.
Affirmed.

