CLAY v. FREEMAN.
Syllabus.

CLAY & Another v. FREEMAN & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MfISSISSIPPI.
Submitted January 12, 1S6.-Decided April 26, 1886.

The surviving partner of a partnership after payment of the partnership debts,
may retain the partnership propertyuntil the indebtedness of the firm to him
is paid, if no proceedings are taken against him to enforce a settlement: in
such case if the statute of limitations runs against anybody, it is against
the representatives of the deceased partner.
A and B became partners in 1855 for the purpose of carrying on a plantation
in Mississippi owned by them jointly as partners. B furnished the larger
part of the capital, and received the firm's notes for the amount advanced
by him in excess of A's advances. A died in 1859, and his administrator
and B carried on the partnership business until the outbreak of the war,
without a settlement. In July, 1867, B died, having been for some time
administrator of A (but without receiving any property or filing any account), and leaving surviving his sole heir and daughter P, who became of
age in November, 1869. On the death of B, C was appointed administrator of each estate, and obtained a decree of court for sale of the real estate.
It was struck off at the sale to P in December, 1869; the amount of the
purchase money was credited on the partnership notes ; and P entered into
possession; but the whole proceeding subsequently proved to be illegal
and invalid, and the supposed sale and transfer to be void. In
1876 dower in the estate was allotted to the widow of A in a proceeding in which P contesfed her right to it. In 1880 the widow began suit, which is still pending, to recover damages for dower, and about
the same time the heir at hw of A, having come of age, sued to recover an
undivided half interest in the real estate, claiming that the partnership
debts were outlawed. P then brought this bill in equity to settle the partnership business, and to charge all the real estate, including the undivided
interest of the heir at law of A therein, and the interest of the widow, with
the partnership debts. Reld: That the statute of limitations could not be
set up by the heir at law of A or by-the widow against P; that P was the
proper party to bring the suit ; that the cancellation of the sale restored P
to her rights as partnership creditor; and that while the coM would not st
aside the assignment of dower, no further exaction for detention would be
enforced.

In equity.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. William L. Nvugent for appellants.
TOL.

cxvm-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
-Yr. F'r"ak Jon8ton and 2lr. T
lees.

.

Kreighan for appel-

JusTicE Bi iux delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was commenced by bill in equity filed in the court
below in July, 1882, by Pattie A. Clay and Brutus J. Clay, her
husband, citizens of the State of Kentucky, against Lucy C.
Freeman and C. L. Freeman, her husband, and David I. Field,
citizens of the State of Missouri. As the bill was dismissed on
demurrer, and the appeal is from the decree of dismissal, it is
necessary to state its principal allegations. The facts alleged
are substantially as follows:
In 1855 Christopher L Field, (of whom the complainant,
Pattie A. Clay, is'only child and heir-at-law,) and his brother,
David I. Field, (of whom the defendant, Lucy C. Freeman, is
the widow, and the defendant, David I. Field, is only child
and heir-at-law,) jointly purchased a plantatioii in Bolivar
County, Mississippi, called the Content place, for the purpose
of carrying it on in partnership, under an agreement by which
said David was to possess, manage, and control the partnership property for the firm, and the partners were to be equally
interested in the property and business. They were also
*equally to bear losses and expenses, and to share equally the
profits realized but Christopher, being a man of large wealth,
did not have the same necessity for calling upon the firm profits as David did. The style of the partnership, as advertised
by the partners, was David . Field & Co., or D. L Field & Co.
The plantation and its equipment of slaves and implements
cost from $60,000 to $70,000, the_ lands alone costing about
$54,000. Of this capital Christopher advanced $15,541.26 mnore
than David, which advance was, made in the.years 1856, 1857,
1858, and 1859, and four partnership 'notes. were executed by
David and delivered to Christopher as evidence of these advances, which notes were as follows, namely:
MRa.

1. "$7385r3A. On or before the first day of January, 1858,
the concern of David I. Field & Co. will be owing C. I. Field
the sum of seven thousand three hundred and eighty five -

CLAY v. FREEAN.
Opinion of the Court

dollars for money advanced the concern for payment for the
.Leach land and cash advanced for the purchase of negroes in
K'y in the summer of 1856, and to bear six per Qent. interest
from maturity, or when due. This 23d Decr., 1856.
"D. I. FIEL-D & Co. [s.FAT.]"
2. "The concern of -David I. Field & Co. is.owing to C. I.
Field the sum of five thousand six hundred and sixty-six and
two-thirds dollars (it being that amount advanced by him of
payment to Kirk, balance on concern-note due him 1st day of
January last); he is to he paid six per cent. for said amouit
from date until paid. This 20th March, 1$51.
"DAvm I. FT.i

& Co."

[On this note is endorsed- a credit as follows:
"$243.50. Rec'd on the within note the sum of two hundred and forty-three -0adollars on settlement of articles purchased at D. I. Field's sale of personal property by 0. I. Field
and D. I. Field & Co., this 1st day January 1861.
"C. I. Fimi."]
3. "Due C. I. Field, or order, the sum of eleven hundred dollars ($1100), it being money this day advanced by paying to
Wm.Kirk, through his draft on Hewitt, Norton & Co., of New
Orleans, this fifth day of June, 1858.
"D. L Fism & Co. [sE.]"
4.
"BoLrvAR,
"Due C. I. Field, or order, one thousand
eighty-nine dollars -.2A, for value rec'd, on
date (to this date).
"D.

Jne l3tk, 1859.
three hundred and
settlement to this
I. Fmrm & Co."

David I. Field (whom for the sake of brevity we will call
D. I. Field) conducted the plantation; and lived on it until his
death, which took place on the 11th of Septenber, 1859 ; and
from that time until the commencement of the late war, it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

conducted by his administrator, one E. H. Field. His widow,
Lucy, the now defendant, soon after his death, removed to Lexington, Kentucky, with her infant son, David I. Field, junior,
one of the defendants in this suit; and after her marriage with
her present husband, C. S. Freeman, she removed to Missouri
to reside with him, and neither she, nor her son, has ever lived
in Mississippi since. At the time of his death, D. L Field owed
individually (including his half of the firm debt due to his
brother, C. L Field), $11,000 or $12,000, all of which debts, and
all the firm debts except the debt due to C. L Field, Wvere paid.
On the 12th of December, 1859, C. I. Field probated and registered his claim against the estate of D. I. Field, and to the
proof thereof annexed the following memorandum, to wit:
"David I. Field & Co. is a firm consisting of the estate of
David I. Field and C. I. Field, partners in the Kirk plantation,
known as the Content place. All the within notes are joint
notes of the firm to C. I. Field, consequently one-half of the
within claim is chargeable to the estate of D. I. Field. This
the 10th Dec'r, 1859.
(Signed)
C. I. FIELD."
Nothing was realized from the plantation during the years
1859, 1860, and 1861, more than sufficient to keep it up. In
1859 there was a bad overflow of the river; in 1860 there was
barely sufficient for expenses, and the crop of 1861 was destroyed by the Confederate soldiers under military orders.
Christopher I. Field then took the slaves (about thirty in
number) to Texas to prevent their being dispersed, and after
the war was ended, brought them back, and endeavored to
work the plantation again; but as few of the slaves, after obtaining their freedom, were willing to remain on it, very little
could be done, and the'tlace was worked at a loss. Christopher I. Field died on the-18th of July, 1867, leaving his daughter Pattie, the complainant, his sole heir-at-law, who came of
full age on the 22d of November, 1869. A few months before
his death he was appointed administrator de bonis non of his
brother David, but nothing came to his hands as such administrator, and he filed no account. After his death, Brutus J.
Clay, senior, (father of Brutus, one of the complainants,) was
appointed administrator, both of the estate of Christopher and

CLAY v. FREEMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

of his brother David, and assumed the management of the
plantation; but by reason of dilapidation, growth of brush, and
overflows of the river, realized nothing beyond taxes and expenses as long as he had the charge.
On the 2d of November, 1868, Brutus J. Clay, senior, as administrator of David I. Field, presented a petition to the probate
court of Bolivar County, Mississippi, representing the estate of
said David to be insolvent, and praying for an order to sell his
property, real and personal, for the payment of his debts.
Schedules were annexed to the petition, showing that there
was no personal property, that the only real estate was the said
David's half interest in the plantation of Content, and that his
debts consisted of one-half of the notes given to Christopher as
before mentioned. The petition stated that David's widoi,
Lucy, and his only child and heir, David, jr., and his guardian,
one Scott, resided in Lexington, Kentucky, and prayed an order
of publication citing all parties interested to appear, &c. Upon
this petition and the proceedings had in pursuane thereof, a
decree was made .by the probate court in March, 1869, declaring that the estate was insolvent, and authorizing and directing
the administrator to sell the lands described in the petition.
In pursuance of this decree and advertisement, duly published,
D. I. Field's one-half interest in the plantation was sold at
public auction on the 20th day of December, 1869, and struck
off to the complainant, then Pattie A. Field, by her attorney,
for the sum of $6000. The complainant gave her a receipt for
the amount of purchase money, less the costs, which was credited on the notes by the administrator, and she received a deed
for the property purchased, and went into possession, and has
remained in possession, by herself and'her husband, or her tenants, ever since that time, except as to the dower of the defendant, Lucy C. Freeman, hereafter mentioned. The sale was
made in good faith and in the belief that it was valid. On the
1st day of December, 1869, shortly before the sale took place,
a new constitution of Mississippi went into operation, which
abolished the probate court and established a chancery court
for each county, having, amongst other things, the former
jurisdiction of the probate court; and, by a law passed the 4th

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of May, 1870,it was enacted that all causes and proceedings
remaining undisposed of in the court of probate of each county
should be transferred to the chancery court. The proceedings
in this case were not formally transferred, but are actually on
file in the clerk's office of the chancery court for Bolivar County
aforesaid.
The bill then states the results of the working of the plantation from 1870 to the time of the filing of the bill, showing
that no profits were realized, but that the complainant incurred
a loss of from $2500 to $3000, in consequence 9f the dilapidations consequent upon the war, severe overflowing of the river,
and other causes for which the complainant was not responsible. Vouchers are exhibited with the bill for taxes, expenses,
and repairs by her paid and incurred.
In 1873 Lucy C. Freeman (then Lucy C. Field) filed a petition in the chancery court of Bolivar County for her dower in
one undivided half of the Content plantation, aiid in 1875, a
decree for allotment of dower was made, which decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State in 1876, so far as
said Lucy's legal right to dower was concerned. The complainant and Brutus J. Clay, senior, by way of defence to the
suit, set up the partnership, the indebtedness to Christopher I.
Field, the fact that the plantation was partnership property,
and liable for the partnership debts before any dower could be
had therein, and also set up the sale of David I. Field's interest
by order of the, orhans' court. But this defence was overrdled as not a goodcdefence at law. The Supreme Court in affirming the decree, however, declared that the~right of C. I.
Field's estate arising out of the partnership and the partnership debts was not affected by the proceedings in dower, and
that the defendants, or tenants; in that suit, were left free to
litigate the same with the said Lucy. ' Her dower was thereupon set off to her in November, 1819, and complainants
hoped she would he therewih- content, and did not further
resist her taking .possession df her dower. But in.w September,
1880, she filed a bill for damages in dower, which is now
pending in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi.

CLAY v. FREEMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 27th of November, 1880, David I. Field, junior, who
had then come of age, commenced an action of ejectment in the
said Circuit Court for an undivided half of said plantation as
heir of his father, David I. Field, senior, and demanded $20,000
for mesne profits. The complainant filed a plea, and the suit
was still pending at the time of filing the bill jn this case.
The bill states that shortly after the sale made on the 20th of
-December, 1869, Brutus J. Clay, senior, made his final settlement as administrator of the estates of David I. Field and
Christopher I. Field, in the chancery court of Bolivar County
aforesaid, and was discharged; and'that there has since been
no administrator of either of said estates: E. H. Field also
settled his accounts as administrator of David I. Field's estate
and was discharged: All of the personal property of the
partnership of David I. Field & Co. was lost or destroyed
without any negligence bf Christopher I. Field, surviving partner, as the result of the war, at the end of which the only
property of the pprtnership left was the Content plantation:
That no -partof the partnership notes given to Christopher as
aforesaid has ever been paid: The complainant insists that
this debt is a charge on the property prior to any claim of the
widow, Lucy, or of the heir David I. Field, junior: D. L
Field's estate is insolvent, the one-half of said lands being now
insufficient to pay said notes and the interest thereon: C. I:
Field, at the time of his death, ,owed nothing, or if anything,
all his debts are paid off and discharged: All the partnership
debts, except the said debt due to the estate of 0. I. Field,
have been paid off and discharged: The complainant, Pattie
A. Clay, now holds said debt as his sole heir-at-law and distributee.
The prayer is, that an account of the partnership may be
taken, and that the assets may be marshalled, and the said debt
paid out of the assets of the partnership, including said plantation-the complainant proffering an account of all moneys
received therefrom, and claiming credit for all taxes, expenses
and repairs. The prayer then proceeds as follows: "or if this
nonorable court should adjudge and determine that the said
proceedings in the probate court of said county of Bolivar con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

stitute an election binding upon her, and that they estop her
from proceeding otherwise than as against the undivided half
interest of said David I. Field, deceased, in said plantation for
the half of said partnership debts due to her ancestor, your
orators in that event pray that after the amount due her as
such heir-at-law and distributee upon such accounting shall be
ascertained and fixed, the said undivided half interest of said
David I. Field in said plantation shall be sold under the proper
decree of this court, thus carrying into execution the decree of
said probate court of Bolivar County, rendered in the matter
of the administration of the estate of said David I. Field,
deceased; but if this honorabli court should adjudge and
determine that your orators are not entitled to either of the
special reliefs hereinbefore prayed, they then pray that this
honorable court may decree that your orators have a lien upon
the said undivided half interest of said David I. Field, deceased,
in said plantation for the said sum of six thousand dollars, and
the interest thereon from the 20th day of December, 1869,
lessened by any balance that may be found due by her upon
such accounting to be had in the cause as may be adjudged to
be fair and equitable; and if it be determined that your oratrix
has lost her right to proceed against said plantation, as assets
of said partnership for the payment of said partnership debts
to her said ancestor, they pray that an accounting may I ia,1
between them and the said EIucy C. Freeman, in connection
with her claim as propounded in and by her bill of complaint,
upon such principles and in such manner as this honorable
court shall adjudge to be fair and equitable; or, if mistaken in
the relief sought, then for such other, further and general
relief and decree as to equity belongs and your orators can require. In the meantime your orators, hereby confessing they
are without valid title to the undivided half interest of said
David I. Field in said plantation, but claiming and insisting
that in no event can they be held to account to said defendants in two separate proceedings concerning the rents of said
plantation, and that the whole controversy between them and
said defendants, their- agents and attorneys, be enjoined, inhibited. and restrained from further prosecuting their said

CLAY v. FREEMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

suits in this honorable court against your orators, and on final
hearing that said injunction be perpetuated."
This bill was dismissed by the court below as upon demurrer.
Other proceedings were had; but, in view of the course which
was finally taken in the cause, it is not necessary to notice them.
The ground on which the bill was dismissed was lapse of time.
The sale of David I. Field's interest by order of the Probate
Court in 1869 was held to be void. This was also so held in the
action of ejectment brought by David I. Field, junior, the
reason assigned being that the Probate Court had no jurisdiction of accounts between partners, and that the administratoe
gave no bond as required by law. On writ of error from this
court in that case the judgment of the Circuit Court was
affirmed. See Clay & TVFfe v. Field,115 U. S.260. But that
action affected only the legal title; and the question still
remains, unless precluded by lapse of time, whether in equity,
the lands, being partnership property, are not liable to the
debts of the partnership prior to any claim of the widow and
heir of D. I. Field.
As before said, the couit below placed its decree upon the
lapse of time, holding that, as the partnership was dissolved by
the death of David I. Field, senior, in September, 1859, a suit
for an account of the partnership transactions could not
be brought in 1882, after a lapse of twenty-three years; or,
deducting five years for the continuance of the war, after
a lapse of eighteen years.
If this were simply a bill to enforce the settlement of
an account this reasoning would be very apposite. But it is
not. It is a bill to prevent a dispossession of property until
the equitable charges against that property are adjusted and
settled. Of course the adjustment and settlement of those
charges involves an account of the partnership transactions.
But that account was no less claimable, at any time, by the
estate of D. I. Field than it was by that of C. I. Field. The
primary object of the present bill, though it involves a taking
of the account, is to prevent the complainants from being dispossessed of the property until their claim against it has been
discharged.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

If a pledgee holds property as security for a debt, the statute of limitations does not affect his right to hold the pledge
until the debt is paid; it does not authorize the debtor to claim
the pledge without paying the debt.I The creditor is in possession. If the statute runs against any one, (so far as relates
to the pledge,) it runs against the pledgor. The creditor, by
operation of the statute, may lose his right of action for a personal judgment against the debtor; but lie has a right to hold
on to the pledge until the debt is paid. It is the debtor's concern to see that he does not lose his right to redeem the pledge.
So, a mortgagee in possession, if satisfied with the mortgage
security, need have no anxiety about the statute of limitations.
That is the concern of the mortgagor. Unless he redeems in
proper time, he will lose his equity of redemption.
The same rule applies in the case of partnership property in
the possession of the surviving partner; he has a right to hold
it until the debts of the firm are paid, and if the firm is
indebted to him, he has a right to hold it until he is paid. It
is true, it is his duty to dispose of the partnership prope.rty,
and settle the partnership debts. But that is a duty to which
he may, at any time, be compelled by the representatives of the
deceased partner; and although his neglect or delay in winding up the concern may expose him to the animddversion of the
court, and to the vigorous exercise of its power to compel him
to do his duty, it will not relieve the partnership assets in his
hands from the lien of the partnership debts. Being in.possession of those assets, he is not affected by the statute of 3,mitations. If the statute runs against anybody, it runs against the
representatives of the deceased partner in relation to their right
to call him to account. The proposition that the. partnership
property can be taken out of the surviving partner's hands,
and distributed among the several partners and their representatives without a settlement and payment of the partnership debts, including any balance due the surviving partner
himself, is a proposition that equity will not for a moment
entertain.
The other side, it is true, have prevailed at law; but
'they cannot prevail in equity. It would be strange, indeed;

CLAY v., FREEMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

if the principal capitalist of the firm, who advanced much the
largest amount of money in the concern, should be brought in
debt to his co-partner. The thing is unreasonable on its face;
and it cannot stand the test of a juridical examination.
The reason why the matter lay so long without any movement being made on either side, (except that of Lucy C. Freeman for her dower,) is probably this: On the side of C. 1. Field
and his representatives it was supposed that the decree of the
Probate Court declaring the insolvency of D. I. Field and
ordering a sale of his property topay his debts, and the sale
made in pursuance thereof, ended all further inquiry or controversy. On the side of D. I. Field's family, it is probable that
the same idea prevailed; or, if not, that the land was not supposed equal in value to the lien upon it. The infancy of D. I.
Field, jr., would hardly have deterred his mother and guardian
from prosecuting his interest if they had thought it worth
prosecuting. The idea that David junior could get the land
without paying the debt on account of lapse of time is probably of recent growth.
But whatever the reasons for inaction may have been, C. L
Field and his representatives and heir-at-law have always, since
the war, remained in possession, and the heir cannot, in equity,.
be ousted of that possession without a settlement of the accounts. It is very doubtful, indeed, whether without this possession, even a technical plea of the statute of limitations, or
lapse of time analogous thereto, could be sustained. After the
death o D. I. Field, his administrator, E. H. Field, and C. I.
Field, by mutual consent, continued the partnership until the
breaking out of the war. Of course, neither party could have
claimed that the statute was running during that period, under
those circumstances. It did not run during the war. It did
not commence to run, therefore, until April, 1866. 0. I. Field
died fifteen months afterwards, (in July, 1867,) and for several
of those months he had been administrator of his brother's
estate, no one being such for the remainder of the time. Of,
*course, he could not sue himself. Then Brutus J. Clay, senior,
was appointed administrator of both estates, and so far as appears, continued such, (except as discharged from active trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

on settlement of his accounts,) down to the period of his death,
which occurred, as stated in the bill, in October, 1878, since
which time there has been no personal representative of either
estate. We do not see, therefore, how the statute of limitations, or lapse of time, can be set up against the complainant,
Pattie A. Clay, the heir-at-law of C. I. Field.
That she is a proper party to bring this suit we think is very
clear. She is the only person in the world interested in C. L
Field's real or personal estate. In the realty she is legally
interested as heir-at-law; in the personalty she is the only
beneficiary. If new letters of administration were to be taken
out it would be for her benefit. There are no creditors; there
are no debts due the estate except the one debt due from the
partnership. The plantation is partnership property, standing
in the joint names of the .partners, but liable for the partnership debts. C. I. Field and his administrator held it in possession subject to the lien of those debts. She, as their successor,
and the only person beneficially interested, still holds that possession. We think it would be highly inequitable to deprive
her of that possession at the suit of the heir of D. I. Field, the
debtor, without k'ayment of the debt under the lien of which
she holds it, or, at least, without bringing the debt into account
against the property itself and any rents and profits which she
and her predecessors in interest may have realized therefrom.
Her position is really one of defence. She has possession, and
an attempt is made, under a technically legal title, to deprive
her of that possession; whilst that legal title is a merely formal
one, since, as before said, the lands are partnership property,
and assets, in equity, subject to the partnership debts; and her
possession as sole successor in ifterest to her father cannot be
disturbed without doing' equity to her,-by allowing her to bring
.the notes, with interest, (now belonging to her,) into account
against those assets. The sale made by order of the probate
court having been adjudged void, its incidents and consequences
are void-such as the receipt given for the balance of the $6000
purchase money, and the endorsement thereof on the notes.
The lTtter will stand for their full amount, with interest, less
the endorsement of $243.50 made by C. I. Field.

