OCTOBER TERM, 1885,
Statement of Facts.

The explanation also applies to the correspondence in reference
to the declaration of trust in favor of Frue under date of March
16, 1869. It is clear that, if Palmer had known the actual
condition of the accounts at the time, he would promptly have
claimed his rights, and that, to say the least, Loring was as much
responsible for this uncertainty as Palmer. If the land had
not in fact been paid for by Palmer, the delay in bringing the
suit, or otherwise asserting the claim with distinctness, would
,have been looked upon very differently. As it is, it does not
make out a defence by Loring to the enforcement of the trust
which has been so clearly established.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Aflrme.

SNOW v. UNITED STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
rERROR TO TiE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRIToRy OF UTAh.
'Argued April 28, 29, 1886-Declded May 10,1886.

There is no provision of law under which this court can review a judgment of
the Supreme Court of a Territory, on a conviction on an indictment for
- cohabiting with inore than one woman, under § 3 of the Act of March 22,
1882, (22 Stat. 31.)

The case which makes the question of jurisdiction decided by
the court is stated in its opinion. The quqestion was not considered by counsel in argument: but on its own suggestion
the court gave the parties an opportunity to file briefs, which
was done by counsel for plaintiff in error.
.X'. Geao'ge Tiekna Curtis and .MX.. FranklinS. Richa,d8s
for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. A88i8tant Attorney GeneraZ .taury for defendant in
error.

SNOW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTicE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

There are three writs of error to the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Utah to review judgments of that court affirming

judgments of the District Court of the First Judicial District
of that Territory, rendered on convictions of the plaintiff in.
error on indictments founded on § 3 of the Act of March 22,
.1882, 22 Stat. 31, for cohabiting with more than one woman.
Each of the judgments imposed imprisonment for six months
and a fine of $300.
The question of the jurisdiction of this court over these writs
of error presents itself at the threshold. It was not suggested
by the counsel for the United States at the argument, nor referred to by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, for the reason,
as the court has been advised by both parties since the argument, that a decision on the merits was desired; and for the
further reason, that this court, at the present term, in Cannon
v. United &tateq, 116 U. S.55, took cognizance of a writ of error
in a like case. But the question has presented itself to the
court, and, since the argument, we have been furnished with a
brief, on the part of the plaintiff iii error, in support of th6 juris.
diction.,
Section 102 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows: "The.;
final judgments and decrees or the 6upreme Court of any Territory, except the Territory of Washington, in cases whpre the
value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, to be ascertained by the oath of either party, or of other competent witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars, may be reviewed and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court, upon writ of error or
appeal, in the same manner and under the same regulatious as
the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit Court. In the
Territory of Washington, the value of the matter in dispute
must exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs. And any
final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of said Territory in any cause [when] the Constitution or a statute or treaty
of the United States is brought in question may be reviewed i1.
like manner."
So much of this § 702 as relates to the Territory of Utah was
carried into the section from § 9. of the Act of Septeimber 9,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

1850, establishing a territorial government for Utah, 9 Stat.
455, which provided that writs of error and appeals from the
final decisions of the Supreme Court of the Territory should be
allowed and might be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States, "where the value of the property or the amount in
controversy, to be ascertained by the oath or affirmation of
either party, or other competent witness," should exceed $1000,.
except only that in all cases involving title to slaves, and on any
writ of error or appeal on a habeas coTpus involving the question of personal freedom, no regard should be had to value.
So much of § 702 as provides for the review of "any final
judgment or decree" of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Washington "in any cause when the Constitution or a statute
or treaty of the United States is brought in question," is taken
from the Act of March 2, 1853, establishing a territorial government for Washington, 10 Stat. 175, which, after providing
that writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of the
Supreme Court of the Territory should be allowed and might
be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States, "where
the value of the property, or the amount in controversy, to be
ascertained by the oath or affirmation of either party, or other
competent witness," should exceed $2000, went on in these words,
which were not found in the prior act of 1850 in regard to
Utah: "and in all cases where the Constitution of the United
States, or Acts of Congress, or a treaty of the United States, is
brought in question."
It is plain, that § 702, so far as Utah is concerned, does not
cover the present cases, and that the provision in it in regard
to cases where the Constitution, or an Act of Congress, or a
treaty, is brought in question,. has reference only to Washington and not to Utah.
Section 1909 of the Revised Statutes provides that writs of
error and appeals from the final decisions of the Supreme Court
of any one of eight named Territories, of which Utah is one,
"shall be allowed to the Supreme Court of the United States,
in the same manner and under the same regulations as from
the Circuit Courts of the United States, where the value of the
property, or the amount in controversy, to be ascertained by

SNOW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the oath of either party, or of other competent witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars," except that a writ of error or appeal shall be allowed "upon writs of IWeas cop:pus involving
the question of personal freedom." This section does not cover
the present cases.
Section 1911 relates exclusively to writs of error and appeals
from Washington Territory, and contains a provision that they
shall be allowed "in all cases where the Constitution of the
United States, or a treaty thereof, or Acts of Congress, are
brought in question." That provision exists only in regard to
Washington, and is not found in § 1909 in regard to the eight
other Territories.
Section 709 of the Revised Statutes applies only to a writ of
error to review a final judgment or decree in a suit in the
highest court of a State.
There being thus no statute in force on December 1, 1873, to
which time the enactments in the Revised Statutes related,
giving to this court jurisdictibn of a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Utah in a case like those before us, att act
was passed on June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 253, entitled "An Act
in relation to Courts and judicial officers in the Territory
of Utah," § 3 of which contained this provision: "A writ
of error from the Supreme Court of the United States to
the Supreme Court of the Territory shall lie ir] criminal
cases, where the accused shall have been sentenced to capital
punishment or convicted of bigamy or polygai ly." The writ
of error in Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, was brought
under that statute, the conviction being for bigomy under § 5352
of the Revised Statutes. This § 5352 was taken from § 1 of'
the Act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 501, entitled "An Act to punish and prevent the practice of polygamy in the Territories of
the United States and other places, and disapproving and annulling certain Acts of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah," which § 1 declares that every person having
a husband or wife living, who shall marry any other person,
whether married or single, in a Territory of the United States,
shall (with certain exceptions) be adjudged guilty of bigamy.
The act then proceeds to disapprove and annul all acts and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

parts of acts theretofore passed by the legislative assembly of
Utah, "which establish, support, maintain, shield, or countenance polygamy," with the proviso, that the act should "not
affect or interfere with the right ' to worship God according to
the dictates of conscience,' but only to annul all acts and laws
which establish, maintain, protect; or countenance the practice
of polygamy, evasively called spiritual marriage, however disguised by legal or ecclesiastical solemnities, sacraments, ceremonies, consecrations, or other contriyances." :Efnce, § 3 of
the act of 1874, in speaking of "bigamy or polygamy," referred
to the crime denounced by §-1 of the act of 1862, as carried
into the Revised Statutes.
Then came the act of March 22, 1882, 22 Stat. 30, § 1 of
which amended § 5352 of the Revised Statutes; the original and
new § 5352 (leaving out the exceptions) beingas follows, the
parts in each which differ from the other being i.n italic:
7Y-ew.
Original.
"Every person who has a
"Every person having a
husband or wife living, who husband or wife living, who in
marries another, whether mar- a Territory or other Pltace over
ried or single, in a Territory whick the United States have
or other place over which the exclusive jurisdiction, hereafUnited States have exclusive ter marries another, whether
jurisdiction, is guilty of bgamy, and shall be punished by
a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars,-and by imprisonment for a term not
more than five years."

married or single, and any
man who hereafter 8jiunltaneously,or on. the sare day, mar-

rie more'than one woman, in a
Territory or other place over
which .the United States have
exclusive jurisdiction, is guilty
of volyg.a7iy, and shall be punished by *a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars, and
by imprisonment for a term of
not more than five years."

Section 3 of the act of 1882 is the one on which the indictments in these cases were founded. It is in these words: "if

SNOW ?). UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

any male person, in a Territory or other place over which the
United States have exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter cohabits
with more than one woman, he shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by
a fine of not more than three hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court." This section creates a
new and distinct offence from bigamy or polygamy, one which
is declared to be a misdemeanor, (there having been and being
no such declaration as to bigamy or polygamy,) and the punishment for which is much less than the punishment for bigamy or polygamy. The act of 1882 made no provision for any
writ of error from this court in a case under section 3, while,
by the then existing act of July 23, 1874, a writ of error could
lie on- a conviction of bigamy or polygamy. By no proper
construction can the offence of cohabiting with more than one
woman be regarded as identical with the offence of bigamy or
polygamy. The act of 1882, in §§ 1, 3, and 5, classes bigamy
or polygamy as a different offence from the offence of cohabiting with more than one woman; and we cannot regard a statutory provision for a writ of error on a conviction of bigamy
or polygamy as authorizing one on a conviction, under § 3 of
the act of 1882, of cohabiting with more than one woman.
On the-,3d of March, 1885, the following act was passed,
23 Stat. 443: " lio appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be
allowed from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in
equityin the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or
in the Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United
States, unlesg the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall
exceed the sum of five thousand dollars." See. 2. "The preceding section shall not apply to any case wherein is involved
the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn
in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States; but in all such cases an
appeal or writ of error may be brought without regard to the
sum or value in dispute."
This act is relied on by the plaintiff in error as covering the
present cases. The first section of it applies solely to judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ments or decrees in suits at law or in equity, measured by a
-pecuniary value. If the second section applies to a criminal
case wherein "is drawn in question the validity of a" "statute
of, or an authority exercised under, the United States," without regard to whether there is or is not any sum or value in
dispute, the question still remains for consideration, whether,
in the present cases, the validity of a statute of the United
States, or the validity of an authority exercised under the
United States, is drawn in question.
The peculiar language of § 2 is to be noted. In § 709 of the
Revised Statutes, allowing a writ of error to review a final
judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a State,
in which a decision in the suit could be had, the language is,
"where is draw in question the validity of a treaty or statute
of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, and the
de6ision is against their validity." This language is taken from
§ 2 of the act of February 5,1S67, 14 Stat. 386, where it is
reproduced 'verbathn from section 25 of the Judiciary Act of
September 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 85. In § 2 of the act under consideration the words "and the decision is against their validity"
are not found. In § 1911 of the ReviseUd Statutes, in regard to
Washington Territory, the language, adopted substantially
from the act of March ., 1853, 10 Stat. 175, is, "in all cases
where the Constitution of the United States, or a treaty thereof, or acts of Congress, are brought in question;" and is not
limited to the case of a decision against the validity of the act.
Section 2 of the act of 1885 applies not where merely an act
of Congress is brought in question, but only where the validity
5f a statute of the United States is drawn in question, or where
the validity of an authoriy exercised under the United States
is drawn in question; but this. is not limited by the requirement that the decision shall have been against such validity.
In the present cases, the validity of a statute of the United
States is not drawn in question. No such question is presented
by the bills of exceptions, or the requests for instructions, or
the exceptions to the charges, or anywhere else in the records.
Nor is the validity of an authority exercised under the United
States drawn in question. The plaintiff in error contends that

SNOW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the construction of the act of 1882 is drawn in question, and
also the authority exercised under the United States by which
he was tried and convicted; that the authority of the United
States is invoked to deprive him of his liberty, in a court
established by Congress, and acting solely by Federal power;
and that the question is, whether the authority exercised by
the court under the act of 1882 is a valid authority, and within
the scope of that act, because the contention is that the court
misconstrued the statute and acted beyond the authority which
it conferred. The authority exercised by the court in the
trial and conviction of the plaintiff in error is not such an
"authority" as is intended by the act. The validity of the
existence of the court, and its jurisdiction over the crime
named in the indictments, and over the person of the defendant, are not drawn in question. All that is drawn in question
is whether there is or is not error in the administration of
the statute. The contention of the plaintiff in error would
allow a writ of error from this court in every criminal case in
a Territory where the prosecution is based on a statute of the
United States; and, indeed, might go still further, for the
authority of every court sitting in a Territory is founded on a
statute of the United States. From the fact that a given
criminal case involves the construction of a statute of the
United States, it does not follow that the validity of "an
authority exercised under the United States" is drawn in
question.
There is a decision of this court on this point in Bethell v.
Dernaret, 10 Wall. 537., The 25th section of the Judiciary act
of 1789 allowed a writ of error from this court to the highest
court of a State, "where is drawn in question the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties
or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of
such their validity." The case referred to was a writ of error
to the highest court of a State, and it was contended that that
court, in rendering the decision complained of, acted under tlhe
authority of the State, and so there was drawn in question an
authority exercised under the State, which, in the particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

case, impaired the obligation of a contract, and was repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, and the decision was
in favor of the validity of such authority. To this view, this
court, speaking by M[r. Justice Nelson, gave this answer:
"The authority conferred on a court to hear and determine
cases in a State is not the kind of authority referred to in the
25th section; otherwise, every judgment of the Supreme Court
of a State would be re-examinable under the section."
In the recent case of .Eurtk v. .Aqftt, 115 U. S. 487, 498, it
was said by this court, speaking by MXIr. Justice Gray, as the
result of the examination of numerous cases which are there
cited, that "a jurisdiction conferred by Congress upon any
court of the United States, of suits at law or in equity, in
which the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of a
certain number of dollars, includes no case in which the right
of neither party is capable of being valued in money." In
each of the present cases the pecuniary value involved does
not exceed $300, even if the fine could be called a "matter in
dispute," within the statute. As to the deprivation of liberty,
whether as a punishment for crime or otherwise, it is settled
by a long course of decisions, cited and commented on in
.Kurtz v. oUlt, ubi &pra, that no test of money value can be
applied to it, to confer jurisdiction.
We conclude, therefore, that we have no jurisdiction of
these writs of error, and that they must be dismissed for that
reason.
It is urged, however, that this court took jurisdiction of the
writ of error in Cannon V. United Statev, 116 U. S. 55, and
affirmed the judgment on a conviction under the same § 3 of
the act of 1882. The question of jurisdiction was not considered in fact in that case, nor. alluded to in the decision, nor
presented to the court by the counsel for the United States,
nor referred to by either party at the argument or in the
briefs. Probably both parties desired a decision on the merits.
The question was overlooked by all the members of the court.
But, as the case was decided at the present term, and the
want of jurisdiction in it is clear, we have decided to vacate
our judgment, and recall the mandate and dismiss the writ of

