OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

95 U.'S. 68. So, also, a writ of prohibition was refused where
a suit in admiralty was brought, in a District Court, to
recover damages for the loss of life by a collision between two
vessels, on the ground that damages from collision were with'in admiralty jurisdiction, and the Admiralty Court cald,
therefore, lawfully decide whether such damages embraced
damages for the loss of life. E xpaer Gordon, 104 U. S. 515.
But in the present case the District Court is called upon by the
petition of the owner of the vessel to first determine the question of any liability, when it has no jurisdiction of the cause of
action, and then to determine whether the statute covers the
case.
The case is clearly one for a writ of prohibition, as the want
of jurisdiction appears on the face of the proceedings. United
States v. Peters, 3 Dall. 121.
A writ of prohibitionwill issue.

JACKSONVILLE, PENSACOLA AND MQBILE RAIL
ROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURIT OF OLAIMS.
Argued October 21, 1886.-Decided November 1, 1886.

A railroad company, in aid of whose road Congress grants land upon condition
that it shall transport mails at such price as Congress may direct, and
that until the price be thus fixed the Postmaster-General shall have
power to determine the same, is (in the absence of contracts with the department for special service with unusual facilities, or for determined periods) bound to transport mails (until Congress directs the rates) at such
reasonable rnompensation as the Postmaster-General may from time to time
prescribe; and the enntinuance by such company to transport mails after
the expiration of the term of a written contract neither implies that it is,
after the Postmaster-General has otherwise directed, to be paid the same
rates for transportation which it was paid under the written contract, nor
that the contract is renewed for any specific term for which contracts of
the Post-office Department may usually be made.

JACKSONVILLE, &c., R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 627
Opinion of the Court.

This was an appeal from the Court - Claims
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

Xr.S. E Philipsand Mr. A. : Willard [-Y. S. . Lake
was with them on the brief], for appellant.
.1r. Assistant Attorney-General ]fatson, for appellee.
MR. JUSTxcE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The petitioner, the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company, was incorporated under the laws of Florida,
and aided in the construction of its road by a grant of land
from the United States. The act making the grant contained
a clause providing that the mails of the United States should
be transported over the road and its branches under the direction of the Postmaster-General, at such price as Congress
might, by law, direct; and that, until the price should be thus
fixed, the Postmaster-General should have power to determine
the same. 11 Stat. 16, ch. 31, § 5. This provision was a condition attending the grant, with which the company could not
refuse to comply withofit subjecting itself to a claim for damages on the part of the government, and possibly to a forfeitare of the grant. As was said in the case of the Chicago &
ly'orthwesternRailroad Co. v. The United States, 104 U. S.-680,
the power thus vested in the Postmaster-General to establish
the price includes the power to prescribe the period of its duration. ie might, if he thought expedient, and in many cases
it would be so, pr§cribe specially for the service of each day.
There'may be, under some circumgtances, temporary difficulties of transportation which would call for frequent, and, perhaps, daily changes .inthe prices allowed. When, however, a
price is agreed upon for a prescribed service for a designated
period, and there are collateral stipulations annexed to the
same which could not be exacted by the government without
the assent of the company, as, for instance, the giving of sureties for the performance of the service in a particular way,
then, as held in the case cited, a contract is created which cannot be disregarded by the government without a breach of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

good. faith. But where no such collateral stipulations are
mad6, and no duration of time is prescribed, but the service is
exacted simply from the obligation growing out of the acceptance of the condition of the land-grant, it rests in the discretion of the Postmaster-General to change the price, from tim
to time, as in his judgment the public interests may require.
It is not to be presumed that in such matters he will act in an
arbitrary or unreasonable manner. For any abuse of his authority there is the security, which exists with reference to
the action of all heads of the executive departments, in their
-responsibility to their, superior, and liability to be called to
accoufit Vy Congress. ITo abuse of authority, however, is suggegted in the present case. An error of construction as to the
rights of the petitioner is alone alleged.
It appears from the record that the petitioner had a written
contract with the government for the transportation of the
mail between certain designated points, from July 1, 1871, to
June 30, 1875, at prescribed rates; that the contract contained
various stipulations on the part of the company as to the manner in which the service should be performed, the free transportation of special agents of the department, its liability to
fine for neglects and omissions of duty, and for the giving
of adequate security for the performance of its undertaking.
The price for the service was prescribed, and no question is
made as to the entire and satisfactory fulfilment of the contract by the company, or of the payment of the compensation
stipulated by the government. After the termination of this
contract the petilioner' continued to carry the mail as previously, without any notice from the Postmaster-General that
the price to be allowed for the service would be in any respect
different, until the 21st March, 1876, when he fixed the rate of
compensation at a less sum for the service until June 30, 1876.
The service was performed by the company notwithstanding
the reduction made, and the reduced price was received without objection.
From the 1st of July, 1876, until June 30, 1880, the same
service was performed by the company; but further reductions
from the compensation previously allowed were made under

JACKSONVILLE, &c., R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 629'
Opinion of the Court.

the acts of Congress of July 12, 1876, and of June 17, 1878.
Notice of them was given to the company, but the service by
it was continued, and the reduced price was received, also,
without objection. It is now claimed that the company is
entitled to the difference between the price thus allowed and
the price paid previous to July 1, 1876. It is to recover such
difference that the petition is filed, the contention being that,
by the continuation of the service of the company after June
30, 1876, without objection from the Postmaster-General, a
contract was implied that the same compensation should be
subsequently allowed.
At this time, also, by regulation of the department, the
United States were divided into four contract sections. A
general letting for one of these sections was to take place
every year, and contracts were to be then made for four consecutive years, commencing on the 1st of July. The road of
the petitioner was within the section in which contracts were
to end on June 30, 1875, until the regulation was altered, when
it came within the section in which contracts were to end on
June 30, 1876. From this latter fact, that the road was thus
within the section in which contracts were to be made for four
years from July 1, 1876, it is further contended that the contract implied from the service afterwards rendered, as mentioned above, was to continue for four years.
The answer to both positions is obvious. By the condition
contained in the land-grant, the company, as already stated,
was to transport the mail at such price as the PostmasterGenera should determine, unless fixed by a law of Congress.
No implication could, therefore, arise from the continuance of
the service other than that the company was carrying out the
obligation imposed by its acceptance of the land-grant. Without specific stipulations by sureties, there could be no obligation on their part for the company, nor, without specific
stipulations by the company, could there be any requirement
on its part to perform many of the duties specially designated
in the written contract. The Postmiaster-General may have
deemed it expedient for the public interest to cbai ge, enlarge,
or omit entirely the requiremcnts previous', prescribed, and

