EX PARTE LOTHROP.
Syllabus.

stitution or laws. It is enough if the claim involves a real'and
substantial dispute or controversy in the suit. In this case
there can be no doubt about that. The Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California has already decided
more than once, in other cases involving precisely the same
questions, that the statute on which the recovery depends was
unconstitutional and void, and some of these cases are now
pending here on writs of error. Already much time has been
devoted in this court to their argument under special assignments.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
cause remanded, with directions that it be sent back to the Superior Court of Los Angeles County for removal to the Circuit
Court of the United States, in accordance with the prayer of
the petition filed for that purpose.
Jv~dgment r'e'Veed.

EX PARTE LOTIIROP.
ORIGINAL.
Argned April 12, 1886.-Decided April 26, 1886.

The County Court in the County of Cochise, created and established by the
Legislature of Arizona by the act of, March 12, 1885, is an inferior court
within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 1908, which provides that: "The judicial power of Arizona shall be vested in a Supreme Court and such inferior courts as the legislative council may by law prescribe;" and the
act of March 12, 1885, is valid.

This was a petition to this court for a writ of habeas vorpuq.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. A.
. Parker, (with whom was .X.
the brief) for petitioner.

_Hr.

Thomas

T. H. IT-Hewell on

KitehelZ for the sheriff, opposing.

VOL. CXvW'z'-8

OCTOBER TERM, 188.5.
Opinion of the Court.

A. A. T. Britton and 21r. A. B. Browne, for interveners,
by leave of court filed a brief opposing.
MvR. QHvEF JUSTICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner is detained in the territorial prison of Arizona

upon a warrant of commitment issued by the County Court of
Cochise County, under a sentence of imprisonment on a conviction of the crime of grand larceny, and the only question
presented by his petition is whether the territorial legislature
of Arizona had authority to create and establish that court.
There is no question of the jurisdiction of the court to try the
petitioner for the offence of vhich he was convicted if the court
itself was rightfully created.
The provisi6ns of the Revised Statutes on which the question depends are these:
"§ 1846. The legislative power in each Territory shall be
vested in the governor and a legislative assembly. The legislative assembly shall consist of a council and house of representatives.
"§ 1851. The legislative power of every Territory shall
extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the United States..
" § 1864. The Supreme Court of every Territory shall consist of a chief justice and two associate justices, any two of
whom shall constituLe a quorum.

.

.

.

They shall hold a

term annually at the seat of government of the Territory for
which they are respectively appointed.
" § 1865. Every Territory shall be divided into three judicial
districts; and a District Court shall be held in each district of
the Territory by one of the justicei of the Supreme Court, at
such time and place as may be prescribed by-law; and each
judge, after assignment, shall reside in the district to which he
is assigned.
"§ 1868. The supreme court and the district courts, respectively, in every Territory, shall possess chancery as well as
common law jurisdiction.
"§ 1869. Writs of error, 'bills of exceptions, and appeals
shall'be allowed, in all cases, from the final decisions of the

EX PARTE LOTHROP.
Opinion of the Court.

district courts to the supreme court of all the Territories, respectively, under such regulations as may be prescribed by law.
"§ 1907. The judicial poNer in New Mexico, Utah, Washington, Colorado, Dakota, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming,
shall be vested in a supreme court, district courts, probate
courts, and in justices of the peace.
"§ 1908. The judicial power of Arizona shall be vested in a
supreme court and such inferior courts as the legislative council may by law prescribe.
"§ 1866. The jurisdiction, both appellate and original, of
the courts provided for in sections nineteen hundred and seven
and nineteen hundred and eight shall be limited by law."
Such was the organic law of Arizona, as shown by the Revised Statutes, on the 12th of MIarch, 1885, when the act was
passed by the legislative assembly of the Territory and approved by the governor, "to create and establish a County
Court in the County of Cochise." Section 4 of this act is as
follows:
"SEC. 4. Said county court shall be a court of record, having
a seal with the coat-of-arms of the Territory and 'County
Court, Cochise County, Arizona,' sunk or engraved thereon,
ahd said county court shall have original, general, criminal,
and civil jurisdiction, except as hereafter limited, and shall
have equal concurrent common law, equitable and statutory
jurisdiction with the District Courts in all cases. The county
court of said Cochise County shall have original concurrent
jurisdiction with the District Courts in all cases of equity and
in all cases at law which involve the title or possession of real
property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll,
or municipal fine, and in all other cases in which the (lemand
or the value of the property in controversy amounts to one
hundred dollars or more, and in all criminal cases amounting
to felony, and cases of misdemeanor not otherwise provided
for, of all actions of forcible entry and detainer, of proceedings
in insolvency, of actions to prevent or abate a nuisance, of all
matters of probate, of divorce anl for annulment of marriage,
and all matters incidental thereto or connected therewith, and
of all such special cases and proceedings as are not other-

OCTOBER TERM, :885.
Opinion of the Court.

wise provided for. And said court shall have the power of
naturalization, and to issue papers therefor.

Said county

courts shall have appellate jurisdiction in all cases arising in
justices and other inferior courts in said Cochise County in the
same manner and to the same extent as is now allowed by law
on appeals from such courts to the District Courts. The said
County Court of Cochise County shall be always open, legal
holidays and non-judicial days excepted, and its process shall
extend to all parts of the Territory: Provided, that all actions
for the recovery of the possession of, quieting the title to, or
for the enforcement of liens upon real estate, shall be commenced in the county in which the real estate, or any part
thereof, affected by such action or actions, is situated. Said
county court and the judge thereof shall have power to issue
writs of mandamus, certiorari, injunction, prohibition, quo
warranto and habeas corpus on -petition, by or on behalf of
any person in actual custody in said Cochise County. Injunctions, writs of prohibition, and habeas corpus may be issued
and served on legal holidays and non-judicial days, and all acts
and part of acts granting and conferring jurisdiction to and
upon. the District Courts and describing their civil and criminal
procedure shall be and are hereby made applicable to the County
Court of Cochise County. Appeals shall be taken from the
County Court to the Supreme Court of this Territory in the
same manner and in the same cases as are now allowed by law
in appeals from the District and Probate Courts to the Supreme
Courts."
The judge of the court was to be elected by the qualified
electors of the county, and to hold his office for four years.
He was to reside at the county seat, and could not be absent
from the county more than thirty days in each calendar year.
The precise question for determination is whether such a
court with such a jurisdiction is an "inferior court" within the
meaning of § 1908. It has "equal concurrent common law,
equitable and statutory jurisdiction with the District Courts in
all cases," and "original concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts

.

.

in all criminal cases amounting to felony,

and cases of misdemeanor, not otherwise provided for."

It is,

EX PARTE LOTHROP.
Opiniori of the Court.

therefore, a court of substantially equal dignity and importance
with the District Court, so far as Cochise County is concerned,
but it is "inferior" to the Supreme Court, because that court
has power to review its judgments and decrees on appeal. As
every Territory is by the Revised Statutes to be divided into
districts, and a District Court is to be held in each district,
§ 1908 must be so construed as not to exclude District Courts
in Arizona Territory. Still, as District Courts are neither
named nor specifically referred to in the section, it does not
necessarily follow that the "inferior courts" provided for must
be courts inferior to them. For some reason Congress saw fit
in establishing the territorial government of Arizona to depart
:from its usual habit of specifying the courts in which the judicial power should be vested, and to provide that it should be
vested there "iii a Sijpreme Court to consist of three judges,
and such inferior courts as the legislative council may prescribe."'
!" 2, 12 Stat. 665. In all the other Territories then existCl, U,
ing it lwd been vested "in a Supreme Court, District Courts,
Probato Courts, and in justices of the peace." This practice
beg, n with the act establishing the territorial government of
11 isconsin, April 20, 1836, -5 Stat. 10, ch. 54, § 9, and it was
followed in all the territorial o,'ganic acts passed afterwards,
except in those for Arizona and Alaska. I i Arizona the prevision as to the vesting of judicial power was more like that in
the organic act of Florida, M1arch 30, 1822, 3 Stat. 651, ch. 13,
§ 6, where it was placed "in two Superior Courts, and in such
inferior courts and justices of the peace as the legislative council
of the territory may from time to time establish." This, it was
held in A,,dela;ean In.. C7o. v. Cantee, 1 Pet. .511, gave the legislative council authority to establish courts of concurrent jurisdiction with the superior courts, Axcept in respect to capital
offences, as to which, by the organic act, the jurisdiction of the
superior courts had been made exclusive. The language of
Chief Justice Marshall is, p. 544: "This general gi ant is coinmon to the superior and inferior courts, and their jurisdiction
is concurrent, except so far as it may be made exclusive in
either, by other provisions of the statute. The jurisdiction of
the superior courts is declared to be exclusive over capital of-

118.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

fences; on every other question over which those courts may
take cognizance by virtue of this section, concurrent jurisdiction may be given to the inferior courts." This is, as it seems
to us, equally applicable to the present case. The legislative
power of the Territory extends to "all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the
United States." This includes the establishment of "inferior
courts;" that is to say, courts inferior to the Supreme Court.
District Courts have been established by Congress, but Congress has not defined their jurisdiction, further than to provide
generally that they shall have chancery as well as common law
jurisdiction. According to § 1886 the jurisdiction of all the
courts is to be such as shall be limited by law. There is no restraint on the legislative power of this Territory as to the grant
of jurisdiction to the inferior courts, except by implication, that
it shall be such as properly belongs to a court inferior to the
Supreme Court. In Feriev. Htigley, 20 Wall. 375, 383, it was
held in respect to a Territory where the judicial power was
vested in a Supreme Court, District Courts, Probate Courts, and
justices of the peace, that the Probate Courts could not be
vested by the territorial legislature with the powers of courts of
general jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, because that would
be inconsistent with the nature and purpose of a Probate Court
as authorized by that act, and inconsistent with the clause
which Conferred on the Supreme Court and District Courts general jurisdiction in chancery as well as at law. But here there
is nothing of the kind. All that is required, according to the
doctrine of American In8. Co. v. Canter,is that the court shall
be inferior to the Supreme Court. Its jurisdiction may be made
concurrent with that of every other court which is alike inferior
to the Supreme Court. Section 1869 provides for appeals and
writs of error from the District Courts to the Supreme Court, but
this is not at all inconsistent with authority in the legislature of
Arizona to allow like appeals and writs of error from any other
inferior court it may establish. District Courts are now established in all the Territories, but it is, to say the least, doubtful
whether that was done by Congress in Arizona prior to the adoption of the lRevised Statutes. As has already been seen the orig-

EX PARTE LOTHROP.
Opinion of the Court.

inal organic act contained no such provision in express terms,
and it is not necessary now to decide what effect the extension
to that Territory of the legislative enactments, &c., of New Mexico may have had on this subject. At the first session of the
territorial legislature of Arizona. in 1864 such courts were established and their jurisdiction defined. Howell Code, ch. 45, pt.
3. At the same time the Territory was divided into three judicial districts, the judges of the Supreme Court assigned for
District Court purposes, and the times and places for holding
such courts fixed. From that time until now District Courts
have actually existed in the Territory, and it is not now important to inquire by what particular authority. The territorial legislature had power before the adoption of the Revised
Statutes to create courts of concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts, and this power was not taken away by the revision.
Something was said in argument about the use of the word
"prescribe" in the organic act of Arizona, and "establish" in
that of Florida, but we attach no importance to this. The
words are often used to express the same thing, and Webster
classes them as synonyms.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the act establishing the
County Court is valid and that the writ should be denied.
Congress has power under § 1856 of the Revised Statutes to
disapprove the act and thus render it inoperative thereafter,
and it is to be presumed that this will be done if in its practical
operation the court shall be found to be no longer desirable.
There may be now no good reason for keeping up the distinction between the power of the Territory of Arizona over its
courts and that of the other Territories, but this is a subject for
congressional legislation and not for judicial restraint.
The rule is discharged and the
lfrit of .4abea8 Corpu8 denied.

