OAKLEY v. GOODNOW
Opinion of the Court.

OAKLEY v. GOODNOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Submitted April 13, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

When the right of removal of a cause from a State court to a Circuit Court of
the United States is denied by a State court, this denial raises a Federal
question, within the jurisdiction of this court.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have no power to take jurisdiction of
a case by removal from a State court, when a colorable assignment has
been made to prevent such removal ; but resort can only be had to the
State courts for protection against the consequences of such an encroachment on the rights of a defendant.
.PrdvidentSavings Society v. Ford, 114 U. S. 635, affirmed.

This was a motion to dismiss accompanied by a motion to
affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. George Cranefor the motions.
Xfr. C. H. Gatch opposing.
MRTh.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in a State court of Iowa by Edward
K. Goodnow, a citizen of New York, against Elizabeth T. Oakley, another citizen of the same State, to recover an amount
claimed to be due for taxes paid by the Iowa Homestead
Company and the Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad Company, both Iowa corporations, on lands belonging to the defendant. Before the suit was begun the two corporations as-'
signed their respective claims to Goodnow, under an agreement
by which he was "to use or exercise- reasonable care or diligence to enforce said claims, demands, or rights of action, and,
after deducting all costs and expenses in so doing, to hold the
proceeds or amounts collected in trust for the use and benefit
of the parties owning." A copy of this agreement was annexed to the petition as an exhibit.
On the 16th of December, 1880, which was in time, the defendant presented her petition for a removal of "the suit to the,
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Iowa, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the ground that Goodnow "is only a nominal party to said
suit, and has no interest therein whatsoever, but is prosecuting
the same for the sole and exclusive use and benefit of the Iowa
Homestead Company and Dubuque and Sioux City Railroad
Company, which were, at the commencement of this suit and
still are, corporaiions created and existing under and by virtue
of the laws of the State of Iowa, each having its principal
place of business in said State of Iowa, which said railroad and
homestead companies directed the commencement of said suit,
employed counsel to prosecute the same, and are directing and
-controlling its prosecution."
The State court proceeded with the suit, notwithstanding
the petition for removal, andgve judgment against the defendant. This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
df the State on an appeal, that court being of opinion that the
suit had. not been removed. To reverse that judgment this
writ of error was brought, and Goodnow now moves to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and with that he unites a motion
to affirm.
The motion to dismiss must be denied, because a right of removal under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, ch. 137,
was claimed by the defendant and the decision was against
the right. This presents a Federal question and gives us jurisdiction, but, as the decision was in accordance with our judgment in Providmnt Saving8 Society v. Ford,114 U. S. 635, 641,
iho motion to affirm is granted. In that case it was said" "We
know of no instance where the want of consideration in a transfer, or a colorable transfer of a'right of action from a
person against whom the defendant would have a right of removal to a person. against whom he would not have such a
right, has been held a good ground for removing a cause from
a State to a Federal court. Where an assignment of a cause
of action is colorably made for the purpose of giving jurisdiction-to 'the United States court, ยง 5 of the Act of Congress of
March 3, 1875, . . . has now given to the Circuit Courts
power to dismiss or remand the cause at any time when the
fact is made to appear. And by analogy to this law, it may,'
perhaps, be a good defence to an action in a State court, to

OAKLEY v. GOODNOW.
Opinibu of the Court.,

show that a colorable assignment has been made to deprive the
United States court of jurisdiction; but, as. before said, it
would be a defence to the action, and not a ground 'of removing that,cause into the Federal court."
Our attention was called in the argument to the fact that in
the present case it appears that the assignee is "only a norn=
inal party to said suit," and that the assignor "directed the
commencement of the suit, employed counsel to prosecute the
same, and is directing and contrblling its prosecution," whilI
in the other it was only alleged that the assignment was
"merely colorable," and that the plaintiff was "not the real
party in interest;" bat the opinion in the' other case, p. 638,
shows that it was further alleged that the assignment "was .
made without any consideration, and merely for the purpose
of prosecuting and collecting" the claim for the benefit of the
assignor, "and to avoid the necessity of" the assignor's "giving security for. costs as a non-resident of this State, and to
embarrass, and, if possible, prevent the transfer of this action
to the United States courts, and that the controversy
is in reality and in substance between the defendant" and the
assignor, "who are citizens of different States." The t~vo cases
are thus substantially alike, and -this is clearly governed by
that. While, therefore, the courts of the United States have
under the act of 1875 the power to dismiss or remand a case,
if it appears that- a colorable assignment, has been made for
the purpose of imposing on their jurisdiction, no authority'has
as yet been given them to take jurisdiction of a case by removal from a State court when a colorable assignment has
been made to prevent such a removal. Under the law as it
now stands resort can only be had to the State courts for protection against the consequences of such an encroachment on
the rights of a defendant.
Tl7evzotion to dismiss is deni, and that to affirm grand.

