CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT. OF THE UNITED OSTATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.

VICKSBURG

AND

MERIDIAN

RAILROAD

COf-

PANY v. PUTNAM.
ERROR TD THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNIED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 22, 186.-Decided October 22, 1886.

In an action against a railroad corporation by a passenger, for a personal injury
caused by a car being thrown off the track in consequence of a worn-out
rail, the admission of evidence that the general condition of that portion of
the road which included the place of the accident had long been bad, and
that the rails had been in use a great many years, affords the defendant no
ground of exception.
The official reports of the superintendent of a railroad to the board of directors
are competent evidence, as against the corporation, of the condition of the
road.
At a trial by jury in a court of the United States, the judge may express his
opinion upon the facts; the expression of such an opinion, when no rule
of law is incorrectly stated, and all matters of fact are ultimately submitted
to the determination of the jury, cannot be reviewed by writ of error; and'
the powers of the courts of the United States in this respect are not controlled by State statutes forbidding judges to express any opinion upon the
facts.
In an action for a personal injury, the plaintiff is entitled to recove compensation, so far as it is susceptible of an estimate in money, for the loss and
VOL. CXvnI--85

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
damage caused to him by the defendant's negligence, including not only expenses incurred for medical attendance, and a reasonable sum for his pain
and suffering, but also a fair recompense for the loss of what he would
otherwise have earned in his trade or profession, a4d has been deprived of
the capacity of earning, by the wrongful act of the defendant.
In an action against a railroad corporation by a passenger, for personal injuries impairing his capacity to earn his livelihood, standard life and annuity tables are compefent evidence for the consideration of the jury, but
not absolute guides to control their decision.

This was an action agains a railroad corporation for personal injuries received on September 16, 1881, by a passenger
(then forty nine years of age), from the car. in which he was
seated being thrown off the track, in consequence of a wornout rail and rotten cross-ties, whereby his collar-bone, shoulderblade, and several ribs were broken, and his sight, hearing, ease
of breathing, and capacity to do business impaired.
At the trial it appeared that the accident happened between
the stations of Edwards and Bolton, and that the heaviest traffic was over that part of the road.
A witness, who had travelled over the road some twenty
five times, was asked by the plaintiff the condition of the road
between those places. The defendant objected to any evidence of the condition of the road generally, or at any place
except at the place of the accident -in question. But the court
overruled the objection, and permitted the witness to answer
that the condition of the road between those places was bad;
and the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff offered in evidence two printed reports made
by the'superintendent of the road to the board of directors,
one in 187T, which stated that in the portion of the road where
the heaviest traffic was done there were about thirty five miles
of iron that had been run over for more than twenty five years,
and required the closest attentioi to' prevent accidents; and
the other, made in 1880, stated that there were twenty five
miles of track made of iron forty two years in service, and
now almost entirely worn out. The defendant objected to the
admission of these reports, because they were not sworn to
under examination in court; because they bad no reference to
the place of the accident, but only to the general condition of

VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. PUTNAM.

547

Statement of Facts.

the rails; because they could not bind the defendant as admissions; and because the information of the superintendent as to
the condition of the road was derived in part from the reports
of subordinates. But the court overruled the objections, and
admitted the reports in evidence; and the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff testified to the extent of his injuries, as alleged
in the declaration, and that they had been improving and he
was gradually getting relief, but that he never expected to get
entirely well; and further testified as stated in the charge of
the court, quoted below. The surgeon who attended him likewise testified to the extent of the injuries, and, among other
things, as follows: "The injuries in such cases are apt to be
permanent; sometimes they grow worse, and sometimes they
get well. Sometimes they get entirely well; in other cases
they do not; cannot tell how it will be in the plaintiff's case."
The plaintiff offered in evidence two tables: The first, entitled, "Expectation Table of Assured Lives," which an agent
of the Equitable Life Insurance Company testified was the table
used by the American Life Insurance Company, and which
showed, at forty nine years old, "Expectation, years 21.6." The
second, a table from Reese's Manual, entitled a "Table showing the Value of Annuities on Single Lives according to the
Carlisle Table of Mortality," which showed the present value
of an annuity of $1 a year for the life of a man aged forty nine
to be $10.82. To the admission of each of these tables the defendant objected, because "the plaintiff had not shown a case
in which such evidence is admissible, the plaintiff not having
been killed permanently or disabled." But the court overruled
the objections, and admitted the tables in evidence; and the
defendant excepted.
The material parts of the judges charge to the jury were as
follows, the passages excepted to being printed in italics:
"Upon the testimony I charge you as follows: The principal witness./or the defendant was a man who was the sectionmaster, that is, .Xr.Smith. If there was a 'otten,tie there, and
he had overlooked it, he would be strongly tempted to conceal it
and put the fault on somebody else. The, superintendent was
the agent of the.. road, but he -testifies he did not examine it.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

He saw the accident was caused by a broken rail. He was il
a hurry to get off, and he did not examine it closely. His
testimony, therefore, does not amount to much, except to establish the fact that it 'was caused by a broken rail. What broke
the rail he does not know. If it was a bd.cro88-tie and it was
the cause of the accident,why then the negligenceof the roadwould
be very great, or the negligence of the en.ployesl because that was
a thing anybody could see. Three of the witnesses say that it
was a bad cross-tie. You remember, with regard to these
things, it is only a matter of opinion of these men. One says
that it was a rusty place, as though it had lain on a rotten
cross-tie. Another says, right at the place where it was broken
there was a rotten cross-tie. Another stated the primary cause
was a rotten cross-tie.
r. Smith stated that he went and
worked on it and studied it, and he came to the conclusion
that the rotten cross-tie had nothing to do with it, and he
arrived at that conclusion from examining the different breaks,
and deduced what was probably the result from them, he
saying none of the breaks was under the decayed cross-tie.
He is contradicted by one of the witnesses, who says that
right under the place which was broken was a rotten cross-tie.
if the rotten cross-tie was the primary cause, there was aplain,
oen case of negligence. It would be their duty to look after
it, and if that caused the broken rail and this man is damaged
the company would be liable.
" But it is insisted by the company that the broken rail came
from some secret defect. If you believe that to be true, and
that secret defect could not have been ascertained by proper
diligence-for every means must be used to detect it, especially
in case of iron that is very old-if every means had been used
to detect it, then the road is not liable. If you put an old man
to do a young man's work, you ought to be sure that the old man
is sound; you ought to test him. And so, if you put an old
railforty years old, that has been run over by train after train
,for forty years, and put that to do the work of a piece of iron.
I believe there is no testimony about the average age, but it is
a question of universal notoriety that, as .Yr, Smith said in
his testimony, old rails are much more apt to break than new.

-'VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. PUTNAM.

549

Statement of Facts.

If this rail had been here a long time, it was their duty to
take extraordinary care. Now, what would that be? Not
merely to look at it; you can do that with the very best kind
of rails. They would have a man pass over there, as he says,
two or three times a week, and look over everything. He
does that with the very best kind of rails. When these rails
get old and are liable to break, much closer care ought to be
taken. Iwo uld not be preparedto say what they ought to do in
a case like this. If a ,railbe forty years old,perhaps they ought
to send a man. around every day to hammer it. I do not say
that th;s would be their dutty. I suggest that to you for your
consideration,because this is extraordinaryto use a forty years'
oldrail. There i8 no evidence that they did anything more
with that than they did with any other rail. In this State the
jury are judges of what the duty would be. I do net know
what is the law of Mississippi, but as it is to be tried by Georgia
law the jury are the judges.
"As to damages: tst. There is the actual pecuniary damage; that is, the damage which can be computed with certainty, as, for instance, a doctor's bill; that can be computed
with certainty, and that has been proven in this case to be
$290. Also the loss of time can be computed. It did not
appear whether this man lost anything or not by the loss of
time-whether he lost his salary. The company would not be
bound to pay himperhaps, for his salary if h6 dd. not perform
his duty. There migau oe actual damage for the loss of time
if there has been any sustained, but you cannot imagine expenses unless they a
proven. Irn tMhs case, so far as the
,alay
iR cneerned, the presumption would be that he had lost
h;.8 Ralary. ihdt 2night be compild; bed here is ,noeviden e
ahout it. 'What the truth is abewt that we do not'know, but, he
hav ing lost his time, the presumption is he lost his pay, and that
'would be another element of damage whiceh you, coulh i.7eertai
with certainty.
"12d. Then there is another kind of damage for whien there
may be compensation, and that is for the pain and suffering.
In all these eases of serious injury mohey cannot pay for
tbe pain and suffering. It only approaches to it; but he is

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

entitled to some cbmpensatiou for the pain and suffering.
Nqw, that is left to the enlightened consciences of the jury.
"There is another element of damage, as claimed in this case,
which is less certain; to wit, a kind of speculative damage, in
which it is ascertained what a man would make at the time of
the accident and what he was capable of making afterward.
To find out what he was capable of making, you must find out
what h6 did make, and then how much his capacity to do his
former duties was injured; and, having ascertained that, find
out how old he is; then find out how much he is damaged
every year; and then find out from the table which you will
have out before you how much $1 of annuity to the end of his
expectation is worth, and multiply them together.
" As I said, all this is not very certain. You cannot ascertain it to a certainty for several reasons. No man can tell
how long a man is going to live, but you can come close to it;
you can tell about how many out of ten thousand are going to
die per year. - You must only average it. A man who makes
a good deal of money one day may get to be a drunkard, or his
whole business may break down, as is often the case. His
mode of life may change.
"Find out what that man is capable of making. His testimony is he had a salary of $3000, and he had a trade, to wit,
an adjuster. That was his profession. He said he made $700
to $1000 as an adjuster. Now, you take this $3000 and what
he could have made otherwise, what he has shoivn he did make
otherwise, and find out what he did make in one year. Find
out from the proof how much he has lost. There is his own
testimony, and it is to be taken like the testimony of every other
party at interest; his own testimony is he could nq carry on
his old business. It required an amount of exercise and travel
which would be perfectly impossible for him to take, and he
had to go back into a business by the month, where he could
have an office and where he would be at expense. ,,Under his
contract there would be no expense; they paid his expenses.
As an adjuster he had his expenses paid, and $10 a day. Now,
in the new business he still keeps up a small business of adjuster. He gets $175 a month.

VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO.v. PUTNAM.

551

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"I say to you that the kind of damage we are now discussing cannot be sure, certain. He may be damaged more or less
now, next year he may be better. This is only one mode of
arriving at it. You must take the whole thing together. He
may get well. The doctors tell you the chances are that
things of this sort are permanent. He may get well or he
may not. Try to do what is right and just between the parties. You cannot be accurate as to this kind of damage, you
can only approximate.
"1Now if, under all these rules, you find the defendant is
liable, then find the amount of his liability. In arriving at the
amount of liability, as I said before, there are- two things you
must find; first, how much is the actual pecuniary damage he
has sustained, the loss of the time and doctor's bill; second,
his pain and suffering for the future; and, third, you will find
out what he has been injured by the year. Te eompany is
bound to give hirm an, annuity of the amount he has. been damaged by the year, fol a period equal to the exyectation of the
.plaintif"s1,fe. It would not do to say this: His -expectation
is thirty years, and he has lost $1000 a year, therefore we will
give him $30,000; for the anhuity will be payable one part this
year and another part next year, and each of the thirty parts
payable each of the thirty years. You must have a sum such
that when he dies it will all be used up at the end of thirty
years." [The judge then directed the plaintiff's counsel to
"mark the table that has got the calculation;" and, after the
annuit table had been marked opposite forty iiinc years of
age, proceeded:]
"Add that to the present worth of annuity
if you find he was damaged. Find, gentlemen, a verdict, first,
for the pecuniary damage; next, the pain, if he has suffered
any; next, the loss per year; multiply by the amount you find
in that table, and add the three together, and your verdict
would be just a general verdict for the amount found."
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$16,000, and the defendant brought the case to this court by
writ of error.
.Atr. BEdgar X. Johnson, (Mr.George Hoadly and .3Er. Ed-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ward Colston were with him on. the brief), for plaintiff in error,
cited .Yelson v. The C. R. I. & P. R. R.. Co., 38 Iowa, 564;
Simonson v. Tl7e C. R. I. & P. R. R. Co., 49 Iowa, 87; Rowley
v. Zondon,
_b-orthwestern Railway Co., L. R., 8 Ex. 221;
Bristow v. Sequeville, 5 Exch. 275; Jlilwaukee &f St. Paul
Railway Co. V. Ar7ms, 91 U. S. 489; Schefler v. -llinneapolis
& St. Louis Railway Co., 19 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas.
173.
Xr. loke Smith, for defendant in error, cited Central Raiload Co. v. Richards, 62 Georgia, 307; Atlanta & West Point
Railroadv. Johnson, 66 Georgia, 260; fc.Donald v. Cicago
-Horthwestern Railroad,20 Iowa, 139; jtYissouri & Pac;fe
Railway v. Collier, 18 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 281;
Holyoke v. Grand Trunk Railway, 28 N. H. 541; Brown v.
Piper,91 U. S. 37, 42; Terhune v. PIdili1)s, 99 U. S. 592;
Zing v. Gallun, 109 U. S. 99; Adams X.ining Co. v. eutr,
26 Mich. 73; Sacalarie v. E]areha. & Palisade Bailway,
18 Nevada, 155; Vnited Siates v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 460,
470; Barry v. -woyles, 1 Pet. 311; American Fur Co. v.
tiited States, 2 Pet. 358; Cliquot's Cliampagne,3 Wall. 114;
.Malecee v. Tower- Grove & Lafayette Railway, 57 Missouri,
17; NYorwick & Worcester Railroad v. Oahill, 18 Conn.
484; Cental Branch Union Pacific Railroad v. Butniant, 22
Kansas, 639;
&udd
v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426; Indianapolis
& Bt. -LouisRailroad v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291; Transportation
Line v. Hope, 95 U. S. 297 302; -Mitchell v. Har'mony, 13
How. 115, 131; 2fagniac v. Tlonqson, 7 Pet. 348; Stokes v.
Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181; Railroad Co. v. Pollard,22 Wall.
341; Pennsylvania Co. v. Roy, 102 U. S. 451.; Ames v.
Quimby, 106 U. S. 342; Tle Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355; Orleans v. Platt,99 U. S. 676; .farion' County v. Clarke, 94
U. S. 278; Schofield v. Chicago & St. Paul Railway, 114 U. S.
618; Pleasants v. Pant, 22 Wall. 116; Pence v. Langdon, 99
U. S. 578; Uerbert v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319; .Decatur Bank v.
St. Louis Bank, 21 Wall. 294; Phomix Ins. Co. v. JDoster,106
U. S. 30; Hlendricks v. Lindsay, 93 U. S. 143; -Lancasterv.
Collins, 115 U. S. 222, 227.

VICKSBURG, &a., RAILROAD CO. v. PUTNAM.

553

Opinion of the Court.

MR. "JuSTicE GnA- delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action against a railroad corporation for personal injuries received on September 16, 1881, by a passenger,
.then forty nine years of age. The verdict was for the plaintiff
in the sum of $16,000. and the defendant tendered a bill of exceptions and sued out this writ of error.
Some of the exceptions relate to rulings and instructions on
the question of the defendant's liability, and others to the
measure of damages. Those relating to the defendant's liability present no serious difficulty.
There being evidence tending to show that the accident was
caused by a worn-out rail, it was, to say the least, within the
discretion of the court to admit evidence that the general condition of that portion of the road which included the place
where the accident occurred had long been bad, and that the
rails had been in use for a great many years. Such evidence
had some tendency to prove both that a worn-out rail was the
cause of the accident, and that the defendant had neglected to
repair the defect. The reports made by the superintendent to
the board of directors in the course of his official duty were
competent evidence, as against the corporation, of the condition of the road.
In the courts of the United States, as in those of England,
from which our practice was derived, the judge, in submitting
a case to the jury, may, at his discretion, whenever he thinks it
necessary to assist them in arriving at a just conclusion, comment upon the evidence, call their attention to parts of it
which he thinks important, and express his opinion upon the
facts; and the expression of such an opinion, when no rule of
law is incorrectly stated, and all matters of fact are ultimately
submitted to the determination of the jury, cannot be reviewed
on writ of error. Carver"v. Jackson, 4 Pet. 1, 80; Lfagniae v.
Tiompson, 7 Pet. 348, 390; .fitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115,
131; Tr'an. portation line v. Hrope, 95 U. S. 297, 302; Taylor
on Evidence, (8th ed.) ยง 25. The powers of the courts of the
United States in this respect are not controlled by the statutes
of the State forbidding judges to express any opinion upon the
facts, .2judd v. Bur ows, 91 U. S. 426; Code of Georgia,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ยง 3248. The exceptions to so much of the judge's charge as
bore upon the liability of the defendant cannot therefore be
sustained.
We are then brought to a consideration of the exceptions
which relate to the evidence admitted and the instructions
given upon the measure of damages.
In an action for a personal injury, the plaintiff is entitled to
recover compensation, so far as it is susceptible of an estimate
in money, for the loss and damage caused to him by the defendant's negligence, including not only expenses incurred for
medical attendance, and a reasonable sum for his pain and suffering, but also a fair recompense for the loss of what he wotild
otherwise have earned in his trade or profession, and has been
deprived of the capacity of earning, by the wrongful act of the
defendant. Wade v. Leroy, 20 How. 34; Nfebraska City v.
Ca=rqbell, 2 Black, 590; Ballou v. Farnum, 11 Allen, 73:
.New Jersey Ex ess Co. v. .riclol , 3 Vroom, 166, anid 4
Vroom, 430; Phillips v. London & Southwestew Railway, 4
Q. B. D. 406, 5 Q. B. D. 78, and 5 0. P. D. 280; S. C., 49
Law Journal (.Q. B.) 233.
In order to assist the jury in making such an estimate, standard life and annuity tables, showing at any age the probable
duration of life, and the present value of a life annuity, are
competent evidence. Te D. S. Gregory, 2 Benedict, 226, 239,
affirmed 9 Wall. 513 ; Rowley v. Zondon &YNorthwestern Railway, L. R. 8 -Ex. 221; Sauter v. New York Central Railroad,
66 N. Y. 50; ifcDonald v. Chicago & Northwestern Railroad,
26 Iowa, 124, 140; Central Railroadv. Richards, 62 Georgia,
3.06.
But it has never been held that the rules to be derived from
such tables or computations must be the absolute guides of the
judgment and the conscience of the jury. On the contrary,
.inthe important and much-considered case of Phillips v.
London & Southwesterr Railway, above cited, the judges
strongly approied the usual practice of instructing the jury in
general terms to award a fair and reasonable compensation,
taking into consideration what the plaintiff's income would
_probably have been-.how long it would have lasted, andall the

VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. PUTNAM.

555

Opinion of the Court.

contingencies to which it was liable; and as strongly depre.
cated undertaking to bind them by precise mathematical rules
in deciding a question involving so many contingencies incapable
of exact estimate or proof. See especially the opinions of Lord
Justice Brett and Lord Justice Cotton, as reported in 49 Law
Journal (Q. B.) 237, 238, and less fully in 5 0. P. D. 291, 293.
In the present case, it was not suggested by the defendant
at the trial that the life tables admitted in evidence were not
standard tables, or not duly authenticated. T:. only ground
assigned for the objection to their competency was that "the
plaintiff had not shown a case in which such evidence is admissible, the plaintiff, not having been killed permanently or disabled "-probably meaning "killed or permanently disabled."
It is a sufficient answer to this objection, that there was evidence from which the jury might conclude that the plaintiff's
disability was permanent.
But the instructions on the measure of damages, to which
exception was taken, cannot be approved.
Those instructions were, 1st, that the plaintiff having lost his
time, the presumption would .be that he lost his salary, and that
would be an element of damage which the jury could ascertain
with certainty; and, 2d, that the company was bound to give
the plaintiff an annuity of ,the amount he had been damaged
by the year, for a period equal to the expectation of his life.
As the judge directed the jury to add the worth of such an
annuity at the time of the adcident to the amount allowed for
loss of ime, including the loss of salary, it would seem that the
jury were permitted, in making up their verdict, to take into
consideration twice over the earnings lost by the plaintiff between the time of the accident and the time of the trial.
But the 'second instruction is open to the more serious objection of requiring the jury, in estimating the loss of future
income, to compute the average amount of injury to the plaintiff's capacity each year, even if they should be satisfied, on the
evidence before them, that the effect of that injury would vary
from year to year, and would be either greater or less as time
went on.
A reference to the rest of the charge rather strengthens than

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

removes this objection. At the beginning of that part of the
charge which relates to this subject, the judge told the jury:
"To find out what he was capable of making, you must find
out what he did make, and then how much his capacity to do
his former duties was injured; and, having ascertained that,
find out how old he is; then find out how much he is damaged
every year, and then find out from the table which you will
have out before you how much $1 of annuity to the end of
his- expectation is worth, and multiply the three together."
In the last paragraph of the charge, just before the sentence
excepted to, the judge told the jury that, in arriving at the
amount of liability, they must "find out what he has been injured by the year." And finally, after causing the annuity
table to be marked opposite forty nine years of age, he directed
the jury "to find a verdict, first, for the pecuniary damage;
next, the pain, if he has suffered any; next, the loss per year;
multiply by the amount you find in that table, and add the
three together."
.The natural, if not the necessary, effect of these peremptory
instructions at the beginning and end of dealing with this matter would be to lead the jury to understand that they must accept the tables as affording' the rule for the principal elements
of their computation, and to create an impression on their minds,
which would not be removed by the incidental observation of
-the judge, wvhen speaking of the possibility of the plaintiff's
getting well-" This is only one mode of arriving at it;" especially, as it was nowhere, throughout the charge, suggested to
the jury that they would be at liberty, if they found difficulty
in following the mathematical rules prescribed to them, to estimate the logs of income according to their own judgment.
Life and annuity tables are framed upon the basis of the
average duration of the lives of a great number of persons.
Ni t what the jury in this case had to consider was the probable duration of this plaintiff's life, and of the injury to his
capacity to earn his livelihood. Upon the evidence before them,
it was a controverted question whether that injury would be
temporary or permanent. The instruction excepted to, either
taken by itself or in connection with the whole charge, tended

