58

OCTOBER TER3, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

as to which it was held in Sewing .fackine Cases, 18 Wall.
553, Vannevar v. Br'yant, 21 Wall. 41, and .Xye28'v. Swann,
107 U. S.546, 547, that there could be no removal under that
act if all the parties on one side of the suit were not citizens of
different States from those on the other. In the last case it
was added: "It is not enough that there be a separable controversy between parties having the necessary citizenship, nor
that the principal controversy is between citizens of different
States. If there are necessary parties on one side of the suit,
citizens of the same State with those on the other, the Circuit
Court cannot take jurisdiction." We see no reason for departing from the decisions which have thus been made, and the
order remanding the suit is
4.]fi7rmed.

CASHMAN

APPEAL FROM

. AMADOR & SACRAMENTO CANAL
COMPANY, & Others.
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

FOR

Submitted April 5,188.-Decided April 19, 1886.

On the facts stated in the opinion of the court, it is held that the assignment
of the cause of action to the plaintiff in error was collusively made for the
purpose of creating a case cognizable by the Circuit Court of the United
States, and that the controversy is really and substantially between one of
the counties of California and citizens of California, and is not properly
within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.r. A. 1. RAodes for appellant.
.. J HT 31c.Kune for appellees.
Mr. CHIEF JUsTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875,'18
Stat. 470, ch. 137, from an order of the Circuit Court-dismissing

CASHMAN v. AMADOR, &c., CANAL COMPANY. 59
Opinion of the Court.

a suit, on the ground that it did not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction
of that court. The facts are these:
Cashman, the plaintiff, was an alien, and he owned a tract of
seven hundred acres of land in Sacramento County, California,
situated on the Cosumnes River, which it is claimed was injured
by the mining debris thrown on it in the working of certain
mines by hydraulic process. On the 9th of September, 1885, a
bill in chancery was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States, in the name of Cashman, against the Amador and Sacramento Canal.Company, a California corporation, and certain
other defendants, all citizens of California, to restrain them
from operating their mines so as to allow the dgbris to be deposited on his premises. Subpcenas were issued and served on
some or all of the defendants, returnable on the 2d of November. On the return day a motion was made by some of
the defendants, and among others the Amador and Sacramento
Canal Company, to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction,
and because it was commenced and prosecuted in violation of
the provisions of ยง 5 of the act of March 3,1875. At the hearing of this motion it appeared, by the admission of both parties,
that the County of Sacramento and Cashman had, on or before
the 6th of October, 1885, entered into a contract in writing, of
which the following is a copy:
"Whereas the County of Sacramento desires to restrain the
miners working by hydraulic process on the Cosumnes River
and using the bed thereof as a place for the deposits and wastage of the tailings and d6bris from their mines; and whereas it
is desired to bring such suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California and in the ninth circuit;
and whereas George Cashman'has brought, or is about to bring,
such suit in said Circuit Court against the miners working on
the Cosumnes River by hydraulic process; and whereas the
county of Sacramento is directly interested in the said suit and
in the subject-matter of litigation, and the same is brought for
its benefit, the county being unable to sue in such court; and
whereas the county of Sacramento, by a resolution duly passed
by its board of supervisors on the 22d day of September, 1885,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

has agreed to pay the costs and expenses of such suit, and to
keep the said George Cashman safe and harmless from all counsel fees, costs, and charges to be paid or incurred therein:
"Now, therefore, this contract and indenture, made in pursuance of said resolution between the County of Sacramento,
the party of the first part, and George Cashman aforesaid, party
of the second part, witnesseth: That the party of the first part,
the said Counity of Sacramento, does hereby stipulate, covenant,
and agree to supply the said George Cashman with the ser.vices of competent attorneys, to wit, A. L. Rhodes, S. 0. Denson, and Robert T. Devlin, to institute, conduct, and manage
such suit, and does further covenant and agree to pay all the
charges, costs, and expenses thereof or connected therewith,
and to hold and keep him, the said George Cashman, safe and
harmless from any costs, counsel fees, charges, or expenses to
be paid or incurred in the institution, conduct, and prosecution
of the said suit.
"The said George Cashman, the party of the second part, does
hereby stipulate, coven'ant, and agree not to compromise, dismiss, or settle the said suit without the consent of the County
of Sacramento, and to allow the said county and the attorn'eys
aforesaid in its behalf to manage and conduct the said suit to
the same extent and in the same manner as if such suit had
been commenced by and was prosecuted in the name of the said
County of Sacramento.
"In witness whereof the parties hereto, the party of the first
by the ohairnian of its board of supervisors, he being
by a resolution of said board passed September 22, 1885, duly
thereunto authorized, have hereunto set their hands and seals
this 26th day of September, 1885.
"This contract being executed in duplicate, each party re-

taining one.
[Seal of the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Sacramento.]
"COUNTY

OF SACRAMENTO,

"By L. H. FAssETT,
i8org.
Chairman Board of Suem,
[sEL.]"
"GEo. CAsAN .

CASHMAN v. AMADOR, &c., CANAL COMPANY. 61
Opinion of the Court.

Upon this showing, there being nothing against it, the court
granted the motion. To reverse an order to that effect this
appeal was taken.
It is very apparent from the face of the agreement, on which
the right to the dismissal depends, that the suit was originally
brought by the County of Sacramento for its own benefit, and
that the name of Cqshman was used with his consent, because
the county could not sue in its own name in the Circuit Court
of the United States. The recital shows in express terms that
the suit was brought for the benefit of the county, because it
desired to restrain the miners from depositing the d6bris from
their mines in the bed of the river, and it could not sue therefor
in its own name in the courts, of the United States. For this
reason the county provided the attorneys who were to "institute, conduct, and manage such suit," and it agreed "to pay all
the charges, costs, and expenses' thereof or connected therewith, and to hold and keep .
.
Cashman safe and harmless from any costs, counsel fees, charges, or expenses to be paid
or incurred in the institution, conduct and prosecution of the
suit." And Cashman, on hispart, goreed "not to compromise,
dismiss, or settle the . . . suit without the consent of the
county, . .
and to allow the . . . county and the
attorneys . . . in its behalf to manage and conduct the
.
suit to the same extent and in the same manner as if
such suit had been commenced and prosecuted in th6 name of
the county." From the very beginning the suit was and is in
reality the suit of the county, with a party plaintiff "collusively
made," "for the purpose of creating a case cognizable" by the
Circuit Court of the United States under the act of March 3,
1875. While, therefore, the "dispute or controversy" "involved" is nominally between Cashman, an alien, and the defendants, citizens of California, it is "really and substantially"
between one of the counties of California and citizens of that
State, and thus not "properly within the Jurisdiction" of the
Circuit Court.
The order dismissing the suit is
Afflimed.

