UNITED STATES v. HAILEY.
Statement of Facts.

"Nor shall any person be subject for the same offence, to be
twice put in jeopardy of life or limb."
.M .. William Lee, Attorney-General of Nebraska, for the
motion. X.. J B. Strode, Mlr. J. C. Wats n, and -Mr. W. 1B.
Kelley were with him on the brief.
Mr.Carle 0. TV edom, opposing. Yr. Okarl E. .Afagoon
and Mr. 0. P. Xa8on were with him on the brief.
CH=iF JUsTIoE WA=rx delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is denied. Bohanan set up specially an immunity from a second trial for the same offence, by reason
of Article V. of the amendments of the Constitution of the
United States. This was denied him by the judgment of tlie
Supreme Court of the State, and we have jurisdiction to review
that decision. Upon a motion to dismiss we cannot consider
the merits of the question on which our jurisdiction depends,
and no motion has been made to affirm.
.Aotion denied.
MR.

UNITED STATES v. HAILEY, Administrator.
FROM TIE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDA

O.

Submltted-Aprl 7,188.-Decded May 10, 1886.

The proper way to bring up for review a cause tried before a jury in a Territory is by writ of error.
This court has no jurisdiction over a case brought from the Supreme Court of
a Territory without a writ of error, appeal, or citation, or appearance by
defendant or respondent.

This was an action against a bondsman of a defaulting
paymaster. After commencement of the suit defendant died,
and his administrator was substituted. The case was tried before a jury, which, under direction of the court, found a verdict
for defendant. The United States-appealed to the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Court of the Territory, having duly excepted to the ruling of
the court. The following are the entire contents of the record
relating to the proceedings in the Supreme Court:
"At the September term of the said Supreme Court of Idaho
T'y, on the seventh day of Sept., A.D. 1882, being a day of
said Supreme Court. Present, R. E. Prickett and J. T. Morgan, a quorum of said Supreme Court, and the United States as
appellant, by W. R. White, U. S. att'y, and the defendant and
respondent by Messrs. Richard Z. Johnson and Houston &
Gray, his counsel and att'ys.of record; the said appealed case
.was argued before said Supreme Court by W. R. White, U. S.
att'y for Idaho T'y, on the part of the appellant, and R. Z.
Johnson, att'y for the respondent.
,"On the 13th day of Sept., 1882, being a day of said court,
the judgment of the court below was affirmed, on the ground
that sec. 140 of the Probate Practice Act of the Revised Laws
of Idaho T'y, 1874-'5, required that a claim in suit against a
defendant who dies while such suit is pending shall be presented to such adm'r, for his allowance or rejection, and that
no recovery shall be had in the action unless proof be made
of the presentations required by law.
"This statute the court held was binding on claims in favor
of the United States, in the same manner as the claims of other
parties.
"To which decision and judgment the United States, by
their att'y, W. R. White, in open court duly excepted, and
that the ruling of said court and other proceedings connected
therewith may appear on record, this bill of exceptions is hereby settled, and allowed according to law by the said Supreme
Court, this nineteenth day of Sept., 1882.
(S.)

Joux T. MoiGAN,

Chtief Jstiee of the Supreme Court,
"(Endorsed:)
Idaho Yerritory.
"Service of the within draft of bill of exceptions acknowledged, and we have no amendments to offer.
HUSTOx & GitY, and
RiCHARD Z. JoHNsoW,

.Att'yfor def't."

