OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

54, also cited for the plaintiff, the ground of action was not the
plan of constructing the sewer, but the neglect to keep it in
repair.
In the present case, the only evidence offered by the plaintiff, which was excluded by the court, was evidence of what,
in the case of a freshet, or of a great fall of rain, would be the
consequence of the difference in le-el between the sewer in
question and another sewer connecting with it; and this evidence, as the plaintiff's counsel avowed, was offered "with the
view of showing that the plan on which the sewer had been
constructed by the authorities of the District had not been
judiciously selected."
The evidence excluded was clearly inadmissible for the only
purpose for which it was offered. As showing that the plan of
drainage was injudicious and insufficient, it was incompetent.
As bearing upon the question whether there was any negligence in the actual construction or repair of the sewer, or the
question whether the sewer was so constructed as to create a
nuisance upon the plaintiff's property, it was immaterial. The
instructions given to the jury are not reported and must be presumed to have been accurate and sufficient.
Jwdgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES RIFLE & CARTRIDGE COMPANY & Others v. WHITNEY ARMS COMPANY
& Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued March 10, 11, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

The decision of the Commissioner of Patents, granting an application for a
patent, a former application for which has been rejected or withdrawn, is
not conclusve upon the question of abandonment of the invention in a
suit brought for the infringement of the patent.
An inventor, whose application for a patent has been rejgcted by the Patent.
Office and withdrawn by him, and who, without substantial reason or ox-

RIFLE & CARTRIDGE CO. v. WHITNEY ARMS CO. 23
Opinion of the Court.
cuse, omits for eight years to reinstate or renew it, during which time many
patents embodying the substance 6f the invention are granted to other
persons, must be held to have abandoned the invention.

Bill in equity for the infringement of letters patent.
case is stated in the opinion of the court.

The

.Mr. Frederic H.
HBets and .Xr. J. E. iindon l-yd-e for appellants.
Yr. B. F. Thursto for appellees.
JUSTICE Gr.Y delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters patent granted May 7, 1872, to John W. Cochran for an improvement in breech-1oading firearms, of which one of the plaintiffs
was the owner, and the others were the exclusive licensees.
The answer denied that Cochran was the original inventor, and
alleged that his application, upon which the letters patent were
issued, was made and filed in the Patent Office on May 6, 1868;
that for more than two years before that date the thing patented had been in public use and on sale with his consent and
allowance; and that long prior to that date the invention had
been abandoned by him to the public. A general replication
was filed, and evidence taken, by which the material facts appeared to be as follows:
On January 10, 1859, Cochran filed an application for a patent for this invention, which, on February 8, 1859, was rejected
by the Commissioner of Patents for want of novelty; and on
February 20, 1860, was withdrawn by Cochran, and $20 refunded to him, at his request, agreeably to the act of July 4,
1836, ch. 357, ยง 7. 5 Stat. 120.
At various dates from November 19, 1861, to February 11,
1868, eighteen patents were granted to other persons for the
same devices or their equivalents, and the defendants bought
some of those patents, and afterwards manufactured firearms
under them.
On May 6, 1868, Cochran filed a new application, which was
rejected by the examiners, on the ground of abandonment. On
AY.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cour.

June 9, 189, Mr. Commissioner Fisher, on appeal, affirmed their
decision. His opinion is published in the Decisions of the Commissioner of Patents for 1869, p. 30. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, his decision was reversed.
On July 7, 1870, he rejected the application. But on December 5, 1870, Cochran filed a formal renewal of his application,
under the act of July 8,1870, ch. 230, ยง 35 ; and on May 1, 1872,
the patent sued on was granted to him by Mr. Fisher's successor.
During the'time between the applications of 1859 and of
1868, Cochran applied for and obtained twenty-two other patens, nine of them for improvements in breech-loading firearms,
some of which he sold for considerable sums. He was poor and
i4 debt; but upon the whole evidence it is quite clear that his
dolay in renewing the application of 1859 was not owing to
want of means, but to his regarding this pq.tent as of less value
than the others.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the invention had
been abandoned before May, 1868, and therefore entered a decree dismissing the bill. 14 Blatchford, 94; S. C., 2 Banning
& Arden, 493. From that decree this appeal is taken.
'The renewal of Cochran's application on December 5, 1870,
was under.the provision of the act of July 8, 1870, ch. 230,
ยง 35, which allowed any inventor, whose application for a patent had been rejected or withdrawn before the passage of that
act, to renew it within six months after its passage; and provided that upon the hearing of such renewed application aban-.
donment should be considered as a question of fact. 16 Stat.
202.
The rules of law which must govern this case are clearly
-established by the judgment of this court in Planing Xachine
Co. v. KYeithA, 101 U. S.479. The decision of the Commissioner
in favor of the applicant, -upon the question whether the invention has been abandoned, is not conclusive, but may be contested
and reviewed in a suit brought for the infringement of the patent. There may be an abandonment of an invention to the
public, as wellafter an application has been rejected or withdrawn, as before any application is made. Such abandonment

