IIARTRANFT v. DU PONT.
Syllabus.

the Hawkins mortgage has been assigned to Hunt according
to the contract; all of the lands conveyed by him to Cunningham, and all of the Preston lands, not in townships 28 and 29,
have either been conveyed to him by Cunningham or will be
upon his demand. There are over 6000 acres of these lands to
which he now has a clear legal or equitable title, and which
are valued by an uncontradicted witness at $40,000. In short,
the Buffalo agreement, which the bill assails, appears to have
been made with Oliver's assent, to have been to his advantage,
and to have been fairly performed.
On every ground for relief alleged in the bill there is a
failure of proof. This view renders it unnecessary to consider
the effect, as a bar to the relief sought in this case, of the decree in the suit for foreclosure brought by Hunt and Eschleman
against Oliver.
The decree of the Circuit Court againstthe appellants Hunt
and Eshleman must, therefore, be reversed and the cause
remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill as to them.

HARTRANTT v. DU PONT.
ERROR TO ' E cmCUr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENN SYLVANIA.
Submitted April 19, 188.-Decided 'May 10, 18G.

The Repauno was a wooden vessel 37 feet in length at the water line, S f~ee
beam, 3 feet 9 inches depth of hold, 2 feet 1 inch draught, with a small
engine and boiler; could carry 25 persons in smooth water, and was used
to transport her owner and superintendent, and occasionally some workmen
across the Delaware, between Thompson's Point and Chester: Held, That,
although it is sometimes difficult to draw the line between vessels so small
and insignificant that they do not come within the inspection laws, and
larger vessels which do come within them, the Repauno was liable to inspection under the statutes of the United States.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. A ssistant Attorney General.M7auryfor plaintiff in error.
N7o appearance for defendant in error.
Me. JusTica WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law brought by Du Pont, the defendant in error, against Hartranft, collector of customs, to recover
$500, that sum being the amount of a penalfy unlawfully exacted by Hartranft, as collector, from Du Pont, as the latter
alleged. The facts were as follows: The plaintiff resided in
Wilmington, Delaware. He was the proprietor of certain
powder works at Thompson's Point, upon the Delaware River,
across from Chester, Pennsylvania, and distant about two miles.
He owned a wooden boat called the Repaufio, open except her
forward part, which was boarded overn Her dimensions were
as follows: Length of water line, 87 feet; length of keel, 34
feet; width of beam, 8 feet; depth of hold, 3 feet 9 inches;
draught of water, 2 feet 1 inch. She had a small engine and
boiler, and was used by the plaintiff to transport himself and
his superintendent across the Delaware River, between Thomp.
son's Point and Chester. Occasionally the plaintiff used the
boat to carry over his workmen, sometimes as many as nine or
ten. When the water was smooth the boat could carry twentyfive persons. She never carried freight or passengers for hire.
She had been inspected, but her papers had expired. When
she was seized she was sailing without inspection papers. The
plaintiff to get possession of her again, paid to the defendant,
under protest, a penalty of $500, and brought this suit to recover it back.
- The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff for $500, based
upon a finding of the foregoing facts, with point of law reserved, which was stated as follows:
"If the court should be of the opinion that a vessel of the
size and description, and used as found by the jury, is liable to
inspection under the statutes of the United States, the verdict
and judgment to be entered for the defendant non obstante veredicto; and if the court should be of the opinion that such a
vessel is not liable to such inspection, then the judgment to be

2HARTRANFT v. DU PONT.
Opinion of the Court.

entered for the plaintiff on the verdict." Upon this verdict the
court rendered judgment for the plaintiff, whereupon the defendant sued out this writ of error.
The defendant relies on the following provisions of Title 52
of the Revised Statutes, "Regulation of Steam Vessels," to
justify the exaction of the penalty:
"Sec. 4399. Every vessel propelled in whole or in part by
steam shall be deemed a steam vessel within the meaning of
this title.
"Sec. 4400. All steam vessels navigating any waters of the
United States which are common highways of commerce, or
open to general or competitive navigation, excepting public
vessels of the United States, vessels of other countries, and
boats propelled in whole or in part by steam for navigating
canals,' shall be subject to the provisions of this Title."
Sec. 4418, which provides, among other things, that "the
local inspectors shall also inspect the boilers of all steam vessels
before the same shall be used, and once at least in every year
thereafter."
Sec. 4421, which provides, in substance, that when the inspection of a steam vessel is completed, and she and her equipment
are approved, a certificate of inspection, verified by the oaths
of the inspectors, shall be issued.
"Sec. 4426. The hull and boilers of every ferry-boat, canalboat, yacht, or other small craft of like character, propelled by
steam, shall be inspected under the provisions of this Title.
Such other provisions of law for the better security of life, as
may be applicable to such vessels, shall, by the regulations of
the board of supervising inspectors, also be required to be complied with, before a certificate of inspection shall be granted;
and no such vessel shall be navigated without a licensed engineer and a licensed pilot."
The seizure in the present case was made under ยง 4499,
which provides: "If any vessel propelled in whole or in part
by steam be navigated without complying with the terms of
this Title, the owner shall be liable to the United States in a
penalty of five hundred dollars for each offe.ce, one-half for
the use of the informer, for which sum the vessel so navigated

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be liable, and may be seized and proceeded against by
way of libel in any District Court of the United States having
jurisdiction of the offence."
The Repauno was a vessel propelled by steam and navigating the Delaware River, which is a water of the United States,
and a common highway of commerce. She was, therefore, by
the terms of ยง 4400 of the Revised Statutes, made subject to
the provisions of Title 52. But, if there were any doubt about
the application of the inspection laws to the Repauno, it would
be removed by ยง 4426. It seems to us clear that the Repauno
comes within the class of boats described in this section. Of
cQurse, she bears no resemblance to a canal-boat, but she only
differs from a ferry-boat, as it is generally understood, in 4ot
conveying passengers for hire; and she differs from a yacht in
not being sea-going, if, in fact, she is not sea-going, and in not
being designed and used for pleasure merely. But; if neither
a ferry-boat nor a yacht, she clearly falls within 'the meaning
of the phrase "other small craft of like character." If such a
boat, so constructed and used, is not included in that phrase,
it would be difficult to name any that would be. If it is
argued that the IRepauno is not such a craft as Congress would
require to carry a licensed engineer and a licensed pilot, the
reply is, that, as ยง 4426 makes this requirement of a canal-boat'
propelled by steam, and subjects it to the other provisions of
law for the better security of life, there is no reason why the
same exactions should not be made of the boat in question.
The reason of the law applies to the Repauno. The purpose
of Title 52 is primarily the protection of the passengers and
crew and property on vessels propelled by steam. The law
was passed also to protect the lives and property of persons
on other boats and at the wharves. The Repauno was of
sufficient size to cause peril to life and property by an explosion
of her boiler, She was not a skiff. She was not a mere
toy incapable of doing harm. The plaintiff's superintendent,
who daily, and his workmeli, who occasionally were carried
back and forth upon her, and the pilot and engineer, who
were required for her navigation, and the people in other
boats who passed her on the water, or those who stood on the

HARTRANFT v. DU PONT.
Dissenting Opinion : Bradley, J.

docks where she landed, were entitled to the same protection
which the law provided against the explosion of the boilers of
larger craft. A boat propelled by steam, which habitually
carries four persons and sometimes more, add is caDable of
carrying twenty-five, ought to be subject to inspection. The
fact that, if her boiler should explode or her hull spring a leak,
probably only four lives would be imperilled, does not occur to
us as ground why she should be exempted from the provisions
of the law requiring inspection of vessels propelled by steam.
In reaching this conclusion we have not overlooked the case
of United States v. [w 2follie, 2 Woods, 318. In that case
the craft in question was of smaller dimensions than the
Repauno, and was occasionally run by her owners for amusement on the Buffalo Bayou below iouston, Texas. She was
held not to be within the inspection laws.
It may be difficult to draw the line between vessels propelled by steam which are so small and insignificant that they
do not come within the inspection laws, and larger boats
,which do. But we are clearly of opinion that the Repauno
belongs to the latter class, and that the penalty sued for in
this case was lawfully enforced. The judgment of the Circuit
Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and tite cause remanded, with directions to grant a
new trial.
dissenting.
I cannot agree to the judgment in this case. It seems to me
that it carries the application of the statute to an unreasonable
length. The boat in question was a mere skiff, not larger than
a ship's yawl, with a capacity not exceeding that of a goodsized canoe, without deck, with a boiler not muoh larger than
a tea-kettle, and a cylinder of seven inches stroke, and. not
much larger than a pop-gun. I think we are in danger of
sticking in the bark by construing the statute as requiring
such a vessel to be inspected. Indeed, it seems to me, that the
terms of the law do not apply to such a boat. Its language is,
"every ferry-boat, canal boat, yacht, or other small craft of
like character." Section 4426. The same section declares that
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

