KEYES v. GRANT.
Statement of Facts.

may be proved either by express declarations of an intention
to abandon, or by conduct inconsistent with any other conclusion. An inventor, whose application for a patent has been.rejected, and who, without substantial reason or excuse, omits for
many years to take any step to reinstate or renew it, must be
held to have acquiesced in its rejection, and to have abandoned
any intention of further prosecuting his claim.
In the case at bar, the first application was both rejected by
the Commissioner and withdrawn by the applicant; and the
question presented is well put in the opinion of Mr. Commissioner Fisher, above referred to: "Can an inventor withdraw
his application, make no effort to renew it for eight years, duting which time the subject-matter of the invention has been incorporated into the substance of many other subsequent inventions, and then file a new application and obtain a patent,
which, to support the novelty of the invention,. shall relate
back to the first application?" We concur with him and with
the Circuit Court in deciding that an inventor cannot do this.
-Decreeaffrmed.
A

KEYES & Another v. GRANT & Another.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

STATES FOR

THE

Argued April 2, 1886.-Decided April 10, 1886.

When the defendant in a suit for the infringement of a patent sets up a prior
publication of a machine anticipating the patented invention, and it appears
that there are obvious differences between the two machines in the arrangement of the separate parts, in the relation of the parts to each other, and in
their connection with each other in performing the functions for which the
machine is intended, and experts differ upon the questions whether these
differences are material to the result, and whether they required the faculty
of invention, those questions are questions of fact to be left to the determination of the jury, under proper instructions from the court.

This was a suit at law to recover damages for the infringement of letters patent. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

_y. George Hardingand _'. G. G.Syme8 for plaintiffs in
error. _yr. Franois T. Ohamber8 was with them on the brief.
Xr. Benjamin F Thurston and .tr. T71oma8 .Macon for
defendants in error. XME. T1. Wells, .Xr. B. T. )Itc.'eal
were with them on the brief, and -M. F. X.. Grantfiled an
argament for defendants in error.
JusTiE IMNATrHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action at law to recover damages for an alleged
infringement of letters patent No. 121,385, issued November
28, 1871, to the plaintiffs for an improvement in furnaces for
smelting lead and other ores. There were several defences set
up by way of pleas, but the two chiefly relied on were that
"the plaintiffs' pretended invention" had been described "in
a certain printed publication ontitled 'System der Mfettallurgie,' von Dr. J. B. Karsten (published at Berlin, Prussia, in
1831-2, in 5 volumes, with an atlas of plates, I., at pages 315,
316, 317, 318, 319, 320, 321 and 322, of volume III., and pages
150 to 166, both inclusive, and 166 to 180, both inclusive,
of volume V., and figures 479, 4.80, 481, 482, 483, 484,473, 474,
475 on plate XXI., and figures 850 to 868, both inclusive, of
plate XLI. of the atlas accompanying said work);" and, secondly, that, in view of the state of the art at the date of the
alleged invention, the improvement was not patentable as not
requiring the exercise of invention.
The issues came on for trial before a jury, and there was '
verdict for the defendants and judgment thereon, to reverse
which this writ-of error is brought.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that the plaintiffs rea4
in evidence the patent sued on, the substantial part ;f the
specifications attached to wyhich-was as follows:
"The object of this: invention is to provide a novel, simple,
and improved method of tapping or withdrawing lead and
other metals, when in a molten state, from the bottom of a
smelting furnace, so that the metal maybe obtained therefrom
in a clean state, and also that the formation of hard ihatters
or incrustetions on the sides and bottom of the furnace may

Mr.

KEYES v. GRANT.
Opinion of the Court.

be avoided. The nature of this invention consists in the use
or employment of a basin of suitable dimensions, located a
short distance from one side of the furnace and at a suitalle
elevation above the bottom of the furnace; which said basin is
connected with the furnace by means of a tube which extends
from the bottom of the basin to the bottom 6f the furnace.
As the molten metal fills the lower part of the furnace it rises
to the same level in the tube until it reaches the basin, from
whence it may be removed as clean metal.
"To enable others skilled in the art to make and use our
invention we will proceed more particularly to describe the
same.
"The figure reprdsents a sectional elevation of a portion of
a smelting furnace with our improvements.
"A represents the furnace, which may be of ordinary or
cor'mon construction. B is a basin of suitable dimensions,
located at the top of an extension built on one side of the
furnace and at a suitable elevation above the bottom of the furnace. The basin may be constructed of any.material suitablefor receiving and holding the molten metal. Extending from
the bottom of the basin B, to the bottom of the furnace A,
through the above-mentioned extension, is a tube, C, which
connects the basin with the furnace, and which may be made
of iron, clay, or other material suitable for the purpose.
"The meta" as it melts falls to the bottom of the furnace;
as the surface of the molten metal rises within the furnace, it
rises to the same level in the tube C until it reaches the basin
B, from which it may be removed with a ladle.
"The advantages of this invention are obvious, as by this
means the metal is tapped or withdrawn from the furnace free
from impurities, and it will also be seen that the difficulties
arising from the formation of hard matter or incrustations on
the bottom or sides of the furnace, occasioned by the usual
method of drawing off a large quantity of molten metal at
one time, are obviated.
"Having thus described our invention what ,we claim as
new, and desire to secure by letters-patent of the United States,
is-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"The method of tapping or withdrawing molten lead or
other metals from a smelting furnace by means of the basin B
and tube or connection, O, in combination with the furnace
substantially as shown and described."
The drawing referred to is as follows:

Albert Arents, one of the plaintiffs, testified to his own qualifications as an expert in the art of smelting, and also "that
the obtaining of clean metal from the side of a furnace of ordinary construction automatically by the means described in
the specifications in the patent was novel and useful, and a
great improvement over the old method of withdrawing clean
metal from smelting furnaces; that the specifications were sufficiently fall, clear, and precise to enable persbns skilled in the
art to which they appertairied, to wit, the art of smelting, to
construct a furnace which would produce the useful result
claimed by the patent, to wit, the obtaining clean metal automatically from a smelting furnace when in operation of ordinary construction; that a furnace of ordinary construction, as it
existed at the date of plaintiff's patent, as defined by the art of
smelting, so far as is material to this case, consisted of an
inner hearth with an open breast or sump, into which the
molten masses of the furnace, when fused, collected, and settled, according to their specific gravities; that the front of a
smelting furnace was that part of the furnace where the slag

KEYES v. GRM&T.
Opinion of the Court.

ran and was handled by the smelter; that the back of the fur-.
nace was opposite to the front, and that those parts of the furnace to the right and left were known and called the sides;
that the slag ran off through a spout over the open breast of
the furnace in front, and the clean metal was tapped periodically from a taphole at the bottom of and from the side of
the furnace; that each part in the construction of the furnace
had its particular fun6tions, which were important as understood and known and taught in the art of smelting at that
time, to wit, the front was the working door of the furnace,
and was where the slag ran off and was handled; the back
and sides where the tuyeres were situated, through which the
blast was forced into the furnace, and the clean metal was
periodically drawn or tapped from one side or other of the
furnace."
The plaintiff then introduced a model on the scale of one
inch to the foot, in sections, showing what a furnace of ordinary construction was at the date of the patent, as known in
the art of smelting, showing the improvement of the plaintills'
and the old mode of tapping, of which the following are drawings:
A-Section of Furnace of ordinary contruction in 1871,
showing plaintiff's device.
B-Ba in similar to that shown in
plaintiff's patent.
C-Tube connecting bottom of
Basin with bottom of Fur"nace.
.D-Section,of same Furnace.
E-Basin to receive clean metal
whenPurnacewas tapped.
F-Tap hole through, which clean
metal was periodicallytapped
by the old method into BasinE.
G-Section of same Furnace.
.H-Inner hearth.
I-Forehearthor Sump.
E-Slag spout or exit.
.L-Tyere holes.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

L

The plaintiffs then corroborated this testimony of Arents'
by that of numerous experts, and gave evidence tending to
prove infringement by the defendants, and rested their case.
The defendants put in eyidence certain extracts from the
text and illustrative drawings of smelting furnaces of the
treatise upon metallurgy by Dr. J. B. Karsten, published at
Berlin in 1831-32, mentioned in the plea, translated as follows:
"(318) The fore-hearth is that part of the crucible projecting in front of the fire-walls of the furnace.
"Crucible furnaces are those shaft furnaces in which the
crucible is entirely on the inside. They are divided into eyecrucible furnaces and tap-crucible furnaces. The former have
an eye in the front wall from which the slag flows continuously,
the metal and matte being tapped off at intervals into basins.
"The tap-crucible furnaces are those in which the metal,
matte and slag are all tapped off from time to time.
"Sump-furnaces are those shaft-furnaces in which the crucible is partly in the furnace and partly in front of the furnace.
The slag runs off continuously over the fore-hearth. The metal
and matte are tapped off into receiving vessels or tap-basins.
Sometimes the sump-furnaces are not provided with tap-basins,

KEYES v. GRANT.
Opinion of the Court.

and the metal in them is dipped with ladles direct from the
fore-hearth.
"Spur or channel-furnp~es are shaft-furnaces without a crucible. The molten contents flow through the eye directly from
the furnace hearth into receiving vessels. These different furnaces can be more advantageously studied from drawings than
from written descriptions.
"(310) In some countries the crucible-furnace is preferred;
in others, the sump-furnace. It is not advisable to use the
channel-furnace when clean metal is produced. With this
furnace the metal is not protected from oxidation. It is used
chiefly in smelting copper ores, with a view to producing copper matte.
"The drawings, figures 461 to 463, represent an eye-crucible
furnace. The slag runs continuously through a hole in the
front wall. The metal and. matte are tapped off at intervals
through a hole in the side of the crucible.
"The drawings, figures 464 to 466, represent an eye-crucible
furnace, which differs from the former, in that the tap-hole is
in the front wall and at. the bottom of the crucible.
"The drawings, figures 467 to 469, represent a tap-crucible
furnace. The metal, matte and slag are tapped off from time
time into receiving basins.
"The drawings, figures 470 to 472, represent an eye-crucible
similar to the one represented by drawings, figures 464 to 466;
it is provided with two tap-basins. The slag also passes
through a basin, for the purpose of allowing the small particles
of metal and matte mixed with it to settle.
"(320) The drawings, figures 473 to 475, represent a sumpfurnace with a covered eye, in which the brasque (a mixture of
fire-clay and coke dust) under the front wall divides the sump
into two communicating vessels.
"The slag runs off continuously through the eye between
the bottom of the front wall and the top of the brasque partition.
"This arrangement is used when it is desired to dip the clean
metal with ladles from the fore-hearth instead of drawing it off
into tap-basins.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opition of the Court.

"The drawings, figures 476 to 478, represent a sump,
furnace with an entirely open breast, in which the sla passes
off immediately over the fore-hearth.
"The drawings, figures 479 and 480, represent a sumpfurnace with a covered eye, and with a tap-basin, into which
the metal and matte are tapped from the fore-hearth. This
furnace might be regarded as a channel-furnace, by simply
considering the short canal, or eye, which connects the sump
under the shaft with the fore-hearth, as a channel. But, by
means of this short canal or eye, the sump and the forehearth stand in combination with each other as a pair of communicating tubes or vessels; consequently, it is a sump, and
not a channel-furnace. The slag may pass through the covered
eye into the fore-hearth, or through an open eye above the
fore-hearth, the latter eye being used exclusively for the slag.
"In smelting operations, where little or no slag is produced,
the upper eye is dispensed with entirely."
The following are figures 858-860 and their scale from Plate
XLI. of Karsten's Atlas: [See also pages 33 and 34.]

KEYES v. GRANT.
Opinion of

the Court.

The defendants also-introduced experts as witnesses, whose
testimony tended to prove that, as stated by one of them-,
"The furnaces thus figured by Karsten are planned for
withdrawing the reduced metal continuously, and as fast as
possible, from the oxidizing action of the blast and the intensely
heated part of the slag. So, the metal is made to flow constantly outward and upward through the open eye into the forehearth, which is made as high as the inner crucible; and, generally, the clean molten metal alone is passing through tis
bottom eye. When much slag is formed it is run off separately
by another eye placed higher up; when very little slag is produced it accumulates for a long time on the top of the molten
metal in the inner crucible, and the clean metal in the fore-bay
VOL. cxvM-3

OCTOBER TERM, 18-5.
Opinion of the Court.

8

10
J

12

14

,10

.

may be partially removed many times without allowing any of
the slag to escape through the eye."
One of the defendants, James Grant, was called to prove thaT
he had constructed an experimental furnace of small size, according to the description and drawing of Fig. 860 of Karsten's
publication, and worked it successfully. A model was exhibited, the proportions and features of which are shown in
the following drawings:

KEYES v. GRANT.
Opihion of the Court.
A -Horizon tal secioan.
B17bre-hearllt.
'-- Open eye.
Eagexilt made by defendants,
th spout overfore-art.
-Front
t.
G-O mn eye.

H- exit mae byjdefendants.
.1Vecai secton

K-Fore-hearth.L--1idden eye.
2V-Oe ye.

•

ZZ

X

And his testimony was supported by that of others who had
seen the furnace in operation.
On the other hand, the plaintiffs, in rebuttal, called expert
witnesses, who testified that the plaintiffs' furnace, as described,
in the patent, differed materially from that described by Karsten,
and from the model of the one made by the defendant Grant,
and who I[ointed out in their evidence the particulars in which
that difference consisted, in the construction and arrangement
of the furnace, in the principle of its operation, and in the results
produced.
All of the evidence on both sides having been given, the
whole of which is set out in the bill of exceptions, the court
having refused to charge the jury as requested by the plaintiffs,
instructed the jury to return a verdict for the defendants, which
was done, and to this ruling exception was duly taken, and is
now assigned for error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment entered on the verdict rendered in favor of
the defendants, in pursuance of the direction of the court, can
be maintained only on the ground, either that the legal identity of the furnace described by-Karsten with that covered by
the plaintiffs' patent was manifest as a matter of law, or that
it was established as a matter of fact so conclusively by the
evidence that a verdict the other way could not be supported,
within the rule as stated in Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Co., 109 U. S.,478.
Clearly it was not a matter of law that the specification
of
the plaintiffs' patent, and the publication of Karsten, taken in
connection with the drawings intended in illustration, described
the same thing. The differences were obvious, in the arrangement of the parts, and the relation of the basin in one, and the
fore-hearth in the oth6r, to the interior of the, furnace, and
the mode of connecting the one with the other, for the purpose'
of drawing the metal from the furnace. So that it certainly
was not a matter of mere judicial knowledge, that these differences were either hot material in any degree to the result, or,
if material at all, were only such as would not require the exercise of the faculty of invention, but would be suggested by
the skill of an experienced workman employed to produce the
best result in the application of the well-known arrangements
of the furnace. It was claimed, on behalf of the plaintiffs, that
the furnace described in the patent and as used by them, embodied an idea not contained in or suggested by Karsten's publication. That idea consisted in the employment of a basin to
receive the molten metal, located at a suitable elevation above
the bottom of the furnace, and connected with the interior of
the furnace by means of a tube, so that, instead of tapping
a lead smelting furnace by withdrawing the molten metal
through Atap-hole near the bottom, if was proposed to allow
the metal to flow upward into the receiving basin under the
operation of the familiar natural law that liquids will seek the
same level in communicating vessels. The object to -be attained by this arrangement was that clean metal, unaccompanied with slag or other impure products resulting from the
operation of smelting lead ores, should, after settling to the bot-

