CASES ADJUDGED
IN TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

EMERSON (as Interpleader) v. SENTER & Another.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted Ma'ceh 9, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

A sole surviving partner of an insolvent firm, who is himself insolvent, may
make a general assignment of all the firm's assets, for the benefit of all
joint creditors, with preferences to some of them: and such assignment is
not invalidated by the fact that the assignor fraudulently withheld from the
schedules certain partnership property for his own benefit, without the
knowledge of the assignee or of the beneficiaries of the trust.

This suit was commenced by the defendants in error as
plaintiffs, creditors of the firm of A. Butler & Co. One
Moores, sole surviving partner, was defendant, and property
which had belonged to the firm was.attached. The plaintiff in
error interpleaded, setting up title to the attached property
under an assignment from Moores for the benefit of the creditors of the firm. Judgment for plaintiffs; to review which the
interpleading creditor sued out this writ of error. The facts
are stated by the court as follows:
Butler and Moores constituted a mercantile firm doing busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

ness in the State of Arkansas under the name of A. Butler &
Co. The former died on the 17th day of December, 1881, and
thereafter, February 23, 1882, Moores, as surviving partner, executed a deed of assignment to Emerson, the plaintiff in error.
The deed recited the death of Butler, the insufficiency of assets
t6 discharge the partnership debts, and the desire of Moores,
as surviving partner, to provide for their payment, so far as in
his power, "by an assignment of all the property belonging to
him as such surviving partner." The grantor, for the purposes
named, and in consideration of one dollar paid by the grantee,
transferred and assigned to Emerson, his successors and assigns,
"all the stock in trade, goods, wares, atid merchandise, debts,
choses in action, property and effects of *every description, belonging to the said firm of A. Butler & Co.," or to the grantor,
"as such surviving partner, mentioned, contained, or referred
to in the schedule hereunto annexed." The conveyance was in
trust that the assignee take possession of the property describ6d,
"sell the same as provided by law, and, with all reasonable
dispatch," collect the debts and demands assigned, and apply the
proceeds: 1. To pay all the just and reasonable expenses, costs,
and charges of executing the assignment, and carrying into
effect the trust thereby created; 2. To pay in full, if the residue of the proceeds is sufficient for that purpose, all the debts
and liabilities then due or to become due from Moores, as surviving partner, with interest thereon, to certain preferred creditors, among whom were the defendants in error, Senter & Co. ;
3.To apply the balance to all other debts and liabilities of A.
Butler & Co., or of Moores, as surviving partner; 4. To repay
the latter, as surviving partner, whatever may remain after
meeting the costs and expenses of the trust, and the amounts
due respectively to other creditors.
The deed invested the assignee with all the power and authority necessary to the full execution of the trust created by
it. It was accepted by Emerson and by some of the preferred
creditors therein mentioned.
The debts of the firm largely exceeded its assets, and Moores
individually, as well as as surviving partner, was insolvent when
he made the assignment. In addition to the recitals in the

EMERSON v. SENTER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

deed of a desire to make an assignment of all the property in
his hands as surviving partner, Moores represented to his creditors that he had done so. Nevertheless, for the purpose of
hindering and cheating his creditors, he omitted from his schedule five hundred dollars worth of goods which belonged to him
as surviving partner; and, with like intent, left out of the
schedule, and withheld from his assignee, one thousand dollars
in cash and other property which he held as surviving partner ; appropriating to his own use the property so omitted from
the schedule.
Neither the assignee nor the preferred creditors who accepted the deed had any knowledge of the alleged fraud of the
grantor, until after their acceptance of its provisions.
Upon an issue formed between Emerson, asserting the validity of the deed, and Senter & Co., who, as creditors of the
firm, attached the assigned effects as the property of the surviving partner, the deed of assignment was held to be void,
and the claim of the assignee denied.
.Ar. U. . Rose for plaintiff in error.
.Me". Thornia.s C. Xcl2ae for defendants in error.
I. A surviving partner has no power to make an assignment
of the partnership assets in his hands, for the benefit of creditors, with preferences. He is a trustee. If the fund in his
hands is not enough to pay partnership debts in full, all debts
being payable equally, he can do nothing to disturb this
equality. Parsons on Partnership, 2d. ed. 442, 443 ; Rictard8v.
New i1namp8hire 1n8. Co., 43 N. H. 263; .MarsA v. Bennett,
5 McLean, 117, 122. In the case of Hoyt v. Sprague, 103 U. S.
613, this does not seem to have been considered. The power
to prefer is not necessarily incident to the power to assign.
Limited partnerships, for instance, may make general assignments, but they cannot make preferences. Burrill on Assignments, 3d ed. §§ 90, 171; Arkansas Digest, 1884, § 484-2. It
does not follow that, because a surviving partner may practically prefer a creditor of the firm by paying him, he may pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

fer him in a general-assignment. Wral v. Lakin, 13 Met. 167;
Urnited States v. Bank of the United States, 8 Rob. La. 262.
II. The fraud of the assignor vitiated the assignment. The
assignee is affected with notice of it. iHe takes the assignor's
place, and-s in no better position than he is. Haggerty v.
Palmer,6 Johns. Oh. 437; Root v. French, 13 Wend. 570;
_Xackie v. Cairns, 5 Cowen, 547, 555; Coddington v. Bay, 20
Johns. 637; Bay v. Coddington, 5 Johns. Oh. 54; Petrie v.
Clark, 11 Serg. & Rawle, 377; _kiCarty v. Springer, 3 Rawle,
159; Dickerson v. Tillnghast, 4 Paige, 215; H'uint v. Whiner,
39 Ark. 70, 74, 75; Gere v. Murray, 6 Minn. 305; nowles v.
Lord, 4 Wharton, 500; Pierson,v. .anning, 2 Mich. 445;
Fanigam v. Lampman, 12 M ich. 58; Farringtonv. Sexton, 43
Mich. 454; Stlekney v. Crane, 35 Vt. 89; llargrove v. Xillington, 8 Kansas, 480,486; Rulile v. .cDonald, 18 Iowa, 493;
Lamson v. Arnold, 19 Iowa, 479; Stone v. 3farshall,7.Jones
Law (N. C.) 300; Irwin v. Heen, 3 Wharton, 347; Swan v.
Crafts, 124 Mass. 453; Clements v. Berry, 11 How. U. S, 398;
Burrill on Assignments, 391 and 484. The assignee is certainly open to all equities that might exist against the assignor.
Wade on Notice, § 431, 436; United States v. Buford, 3 Pet.
12; -Cowdrey v. Vandenerg, 101 U. S. 575.
Though, in ante bellum days, while Arkansas had no commerce to speak of, in three cases cited by the appellant, the
Supreme Court did, without reference to authority, hold, in
chancery, that deeds of trust were not bad unless the creditors'
fraud concurred with that of the grantor; its present view,
based upon more mature consideration, points the other way.
For, at the end of a series of well-considered cases, in Hunt v.
Teiner, 39 Ark. 70, 75, the court uses this language: "Perhaps the rule which requires the grantee to participate in the
fraud, in order to avoid the deed (a'deed of assignment), has
no just application, except in case of purchasers, or persons
who have parted with some valuable right." Any other view
would afford an assignor vast opportunities for effectually compassing fraud.
Beside the Arkansas cases referred to, appellant's counsel
cites decisions of this court, and of Ohio, Illinois, Missouri,

EMERSON v. SENTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Virginia, Tennessee, Michigan, and Alabama, to sustain his
position. But a careful resum6 of the authorities will show
that the most of those cited by appellant's counsel are-either
not in point, or are based upon some statute, or upon a hasty
and ill-considered impression, authorities pro and con. not being
considered.
We deny that this court or the Supreme Court of Arkansas
is opposed to the view of the lower court, or that the view it
entertained is opposed to principle and the weight of authority.
It is possible that Ohio and Missouri would not be with the
appellant, if no statute prevailed. We deny that Alabama
We deny
would be with him if the question were 'eg noaw.
that Michigan is with him. We admit that Virginia and Tennessee are with him, but assert that they are opposed to sounder
views as expressed by the judges in Vermont, Massachusetts,
New York, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Arkansas, and the Federal Circuit Court
in Minnesota and Arkansas.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts in the language
reported above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below proceeded upon the ground, hi part, that a
sole surviving partner of an insolvent firm, who is himself
insolvent, cannot make a valid assignment of partnership assets
for the benefit of the joint creditors, with preference to some
of them. We are unable to concur in this view.
Some of the cases hold that one partner cannot, either during the continuance of the partnership, or after its dissolution
by agreement, make such an assignment. It cannot, however,
be doubted that, in the absence of a statute prohibiting it, such
an assignment, whether during the continuance of the partnership or after its dissolution by agreement, would be valid where
the partners all unite in executing it, or where one of them
executes it by the direction or with the consent of the others.
Partnership creditors have no specific, lien upon the joint funds
for their debts. 3 Kent. Com. 65; 8tory Pariemrhip,§ 358.
They have no such relations with the partnership as entitles
them to interfere with the complete control of the joint prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

-

erty by the partners, during the existence of the partnership,
or with their right, after a dissolution, by agreement, of the
partnership to dispose of it for the payment of their joint debts,
gving such preference as they deem proper.
When the partnership is dissolved by the death of one partner, the surviving partner is entitled to the possession and control of the joint property for the purpose of closing up its business. W cllie v. Eye, 17 How. 467; Shanks v. Klein, 104 U.
S. 18. To that end, and for the purpose of. paying the joint
debts, he may, according to the settled principles of the law of
partnership, administer the affairs of the firm, and, by sale or
othr~r reasonable disposition of its property, make provision for
meeting its obligations. He could not otherwise properly discharge the duty which rests upon him to wind up the business,
and pay over to the representative of the deceased partner
what may be due to him after a final settlement of the joint
debts. It is true that, in many cases-where, for instance, the
surviving partner is not exercising due diligence in settling the
partnership. business, or is acting in bad faith-the personal
representative of the deceased partner may invoke the interference of a court of equity, and compel such a disposition of
the partnership effects as will be just and proper; this, because,
as between the partners, and therefore, as between the surviving
partner and the personal representatives of the deceased partner, he joint assets constitute a fund to be appropriated primarily to the -discharge of partnership liabilities; though not
necessarily, and under all circumstances, upon terms of equality
as toall the joint creditors. But, while the surviving partner
is under a legal obligation to account to the personal representative of a deceased partner, the latter has no such lien upon
joint assets as would prevent the former from disposing of them
for the purpose of closing up the partnership affairs. He has
a standing in-court only through the equitable right which his
intestate had, as between himself and the surviving partner, to
have the joint property applied in good faith for the liquidation ifathe .joint liabilities. As with the concurrence of all of
the partners the joint property could have been sold or assigned,
for tie benefit of -preferred creditors of the firm, the surviving

EMERSON v. SENTER.
Opinion of the Court.

partner-there being no statute forbidding it-could make the
same disposition of it. The right to do so grows out of his
duty, from his relations to the property, to administer the
affairs of the firm so as to close up its business without unreasonable delay; and his authority to make such a preferencethe local law not forbidding it-cannot, upon principle, be less
than that which an individual debtor has in the case of his own
creditors. It necessarily results that the giving of preference
to certain partnership creditors was not an unauthorized exertion of power by Moores, the surviving partner.
It 'is, however, contended that the assignment in question
was void because of the fraudulent omission from the schedule
by Moores of certain: property which constituted a part of the
partnership assets, and was appropriated by him to his own
use. But this fraud upon the part of M~foores did not affect the
rights of the assignee and of the beneficiaries of the trust who
were ignorant of the fraud of the grantor. Such seems to be
the established doctrine of the Supreme Court of Arkansas. In
.TIempstead v. Johnston, 18 Ark. 123, 140, it was said that a
deed of trust or other conveyance is not necessarily void "because its effect is to hinder and delay the creditors of the
grantor in the collection of their claims. But such must be its
object. It must be a fraudulent contrivance for that purpose;
and the grantee, or person to be'benefited by the conveyance,
must be party privy to the fraudulent design." Referring to
the facts which existed in that case, that the grantor was in
failing circumstances when the deed of trust was made; that
suits were pending against him; and that some of the beneficiaries were his near relatives, the court said: "But all these
facts may and do exist in many cases, consistently with the
hypothesis that the conveyance was made in good faith to secure preferred creditors, whose demands are just." In Cornish
v. Dews, 18 Ark. 172, 181, the court said: "As held in the case
of JIeip2ste'ad v. Johfnston, &upra,if the deed was valid when

executed, no subsequent conduct on the part of the grantor, or
the trustee, however fraudulent, could avoid the deed, and deprive the creditors, accepting it in good faith and not participating in the fraud, of their rights under it. And even if Cor-

