OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

nish (the grantor)- had the purpose, when he made the deed, of
hindering and delaying creditors not provided for by it, yet,
if the preferred creditors were not parties or privies to his
fraudulent purpose, but accepted the deed in good faith to secure the debts really due them, it would be valid as to them."
See also Afandel v. Peay,20 Ark. 325, 329; Hunt v. T"einer, 39
Ark. 70, 5. The rule announced by the Supreme Court of Arkansas is in harmony with the settled doctrines of this court,
and accords with sound reason. .Maruryv. Brooks, 7 Wheat.
556, 577; Brooks v. .arbury, 11 Wheat. 78, 89; Tomp7ins v.
h-/e/elr, 16 Pet. 106, 118. There was nothing upon the face
of the deed to Emerson to indicate that it was made for any
other purpose than in good faith, to make provision for the
payment of certain debts held against the grantor as surviving
partner; first, debts due to the preferred creditors, and, then,
debts held by other creditors. If the intentional omission by
the grantor of certain property from his schedule, and his appropriation of it to his own use, was such a fraud as would
vitiate the deed where the assignee or the preferred creditors
have previous notice of such omission, that result cannot happen
when they.were ignorant of the fraud at the time they accepted
the benefit of the conveyance.
The jgment is reversed, with directions to enter judgment
on the 8secial1ninding of fats in favor of thepZaintif j in
error.

DOBSON & Another v. DORNAN & Others.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

FOR

Argaedi March 31, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

The specification of letters patent for a design for a carpet, which is accompanied by a photographic illustration, and merely states that the nature of
the design is ftlly represented in such illustration, and claims "the configuratiqn of the de.ign-hereiinto annexed, when applied to carpeting," sets
forth a siffcient, description and claim, and the patent is valid.

DOBSON{ v. DORNAN.
Counsel for Parties.
An interlocutory decree which awards a recovery for profits and damages
for the infringement of a patent for a design for a carpet, and orders an
account of the profits from infringing by the manufacture, use and sale of
carpeting bearing the design, and of the damages by reason of the infringement, is not open to the babjection that it awards the profits and damages
resulting from the making and selling of the carpeting, instead of those
resulting from the use of the design.
On the question of the infringement of a patent for a design for carpeting, in
a suit in equity, where exhibits of carpets containing the patented and the
infringing designs were produced in the Circuit Court, and it decided the
question of infringement against the defendant, by the aid of ocular inspection of those exhibits, and, on an appeal by him, those exhibits were not
produced in this court, and there was, in the record, testimony tending to
show infringement, this court held, that, although there was contradictory
testimony, it could not, in the absence of ocular inspection, say that the
Circuit Court erred in finding infringement.
The decision in Dobson v. f artford Carpet Co. (114 U. S. 439,) as to the rule
of damages in a suit in equity for the infringement of a patent for a design
for a carpbt, confirmed.
The plaintiff must show what profits or damages are attributable to the use of
the infringing design.
The defendant made no profits on the manufacture and sale 6f carpets containing the infringing design. The plaintiff made a certain percentage of profit
on the manufacture and sale of carpets containing the patented design. The
defendant's carpets were far inferior in quality and market value to those
of the plaintiff. The Circuit Court presumed that the defendant's carpets
displaced those of the plaintiff, to the extent of the defendant's sales, and
held that the entire profit which the plaintiff would have received, at
such percentage, from the sale of an equal quantity of his own carpets of
the same pattern, was the proper measure of his damages. There was 'no
satisfactory evidence that those who bought the defendants cheap carpets
would have bought the plaintiff's higher priced ones, or that the design
added, anything to the defendant's price, or promoted his sale of the particular carpet ; and none to show what part of the defendant's price was
to be attributed to the design : Held, That the Circuit Court was in error.
The decree was reversed, and the case remanded, with direction to disallow
the award of damages, and to award six cents damages, and to allow to the
defendant a recovery of his costs after interlocutory decree, and to the plaintiff a recovery of his costs to and including interlocutory decree.

Bill in equity to restrain the infringement of a patent for a
carpet design. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
iXt '. Hector .T. Fenton and .Mr. _Bichard P. Tkite for appellants.
.Mv. Ludovic C. Olee znn for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
OpinioAi of the Court.
JUSTICE BLA.TcHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought in February, 1875, by the
appellees, trading as Dornan, Maybin & Co., againstthe appellants, John Dobson and James Dobson, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, for
the infringement of letters patent No. 6822, for a design for a
carpet, granted to Charles A. Righter, August 19, 1873, for 31
years. The entire specification is as follows: "Be it known,
that I, Chas. A. Righter, of the city of Philadelphia, county of
Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, have invented and produced a new and original design for carpets, of wlhich the following is a specification: The nature of my design is fully represented in the accompanying photographic illustration, to which
reference is made. I claim as my invention-The configuration of the design hereunto annexed, when applied to carpeting."
The photographic illustration is a six-inch square, containing
a single figure or design. The only defence set up'in the answer is non-infringement.. Issue being joined, proofs were
taken, and the case was heard, and in April, 1876, a decree was
made finding that the patent was valid and had been infringed,
and awarding to the plaintiffs costs and an account -of profits
and damages before a master, and a perpetual injunction. The
master made his report in April, 1882. He found that the
defendants had made no profits, and stated thus the contending vews of the parties as to the proper rule of damages:
"The complainants asked to have awarded to them, as damages and compensation for the injury inflicted upon them, whatever profit the'defendants may have baad6, and also whatever
loss they, the complainants, had incurred, which could be measured by the profits that would have accrued to them if they
had made the exclusive sales of the carpet, deducting in such
case the amount of profits, if any, made by the defendants.
The defendants, however, contended that all that the complainants were entitled to was not what they, the defendants, had
made or saved on the carpets, but only what they made or
saved by reason of the use of the pattern, as compared with
what they could have made without it, and,-therefore, unless
they could sell the carpet bearing the design, at a higher price

MR.

DOBSON v. DORNAN.

-

Opinion of the Court.

than other carpets, whereby they made more or lost less, no
profit resulted to them. They further contended, that, unless
it was shown by direct evidence that the complainants would
have made the sales which the defendants did, had they not infringed, the fact could not be inferred." The master found,
that the profit of the plaintiffs consisted in the exclusive use of
the invention, and in the monopoly of manufacturing for others
to use; that they sold their carpets at from 10 to 15 cents a
yard more than the defendants did, and made a profit, in 1874,
of 131 per cent., and in 1875, of 101 per cent., their average
price per yard being more than one dollar; that the defendants
might have made an equal profit if they had asked the same
prices, and the benefit, gain or advantage to them might be
reasonably estimated as equivalent to the money profit they
might have made; that it was to be -presumed that the defendants' carpets displaced the plaintiffs' in the market; that
it was proper to award to the plaintiffs an amount equal to the
profits they could have made, in 1874 and 1875, on the carpets
made and sold by the defendants, if'the plaintiffs themselves
had made and sold them; that the defendants made and sold,
in 1874, 19,2431 yards, which would have yielded, at $1 a yard,
$19,243.50, on which the profits of the plaintiffs, at 131 per
cent., would have been $2645.97; that the defendants made
and sold, in 1875, 31,280 yards, which would have yielded, at
$1 a yard, $31,280.50, on which the profits of the plaintiffs, at
101 per cent., would have been $3362.65; and that, therefore,
the plaititiffs had sustained $6008.62 damages by the infringement of the patent.
The defendants excepted to the report, but the court confirmed it, and, in October, 1882, rendered a decree for the
plaintiffs for $6128.79, from which the defendants have appealed.
It is assigned for error, that the patent is void on its face,
for want of a sufficient description and claim. It was issued
under the Act of July 8, 1870, ch. 230, 16Stat. 198. Sections
71, 72 and 76 of that act provided as follows: "See. 71. Any
person who, by his own indhstry, genius, efforts, and expense,
has invented or produced any new and original design for a

OCTOBER TERM, 3885.
Opinion of the Court.

manufacture, bust, statue, alto-relievo, or bas-relief ; any new
and original design for the printing of woollen, silk, cotton, or
other fabrics; any new and original impression, ornament,
pattern, print, or picture, to be printed, painted, cast, or otherwise placed on or worked into any article of manufacture; or
any new, useful, and original shape or configuration of any
article of manufacture, the same not having been known or
used by others before his invention or production thereof, or
patented, or described in any printed publication, may, upon
payment of the duty required by law, and other due proceedings had, the same as in cases of inventions or discoveries,
obtain a patent therefor." "Sec. 72. The commissioner may
dispense with models or designs when the design can be sufficiently represented by drawings or photographs." "See. 76.
All the regulations and provisions which apply to the obtaining or protection of patbnts for inventions or discpveries, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall apply to
patents for designs."
It is contended that ยง 26 of the Act of Tuly 8, 1870, applies
to the present case. That section provides, that, before any
person shall receive a patent for his invention or discovery, he
shall file in the Patent Office a written description of it, and
"particularly point out and distinctly claim the part, improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention or discovery." It is urged that ยง 26 was not complied with in this
case, and that the patent is void because it contains no description, and no proper claim.
But we are of opinion that the description and claim are
sufficient. The purport of the description is, that what the
photographic illustration represents as a whole is the invention.
It is that which is claimed, when applied to carpeting. The
design is a pattern to be worked into a carpet, and is within
the statute. Claiming "the configuration of the design " is
the same thing as claiming the design, or the figure, or the
pattern. It is better represented by the photographic illustration than it could be by any description, and a description
would probably not be intelligible without the illustration.
In Dobson v. Bigelow Carpet Co., 114 U. S. 439, 446, the

DOBSON v. DORNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

claim of the design patent was, "the design for a carpet, substantially as shown." Objection was taken to the form of the
claim. But this court said it saw no good objection to the
form, and that the claim referred to the description as well as
the drawing, in using the word "shown." The drawing-there
was a photographic illustration of the body and border of the
carpet, described in the specification as representing a face
view. But the description was merely, that a was an irregular
shield-like figure, surrounded by a border embellished by floral
decoration; that b b were two irregular figures of the same
design, but having a different ground color from a, and arranged at opposite sides diagonally of each shield; that c a
were tassel-like ornaments, arranged beneath the several figures
a ; that d were bouquets, and there were other floral ornamentations; that the border contained an inner plain stripef, and
an outer zigzag stripe g, having inwardly projecting semicircular ornaments A; that between the stripes f and g were
representations of shields resembling the shield a, and floral
decorations extending over the stripe f, as shown; and that
the tassel-like ornaments c were also in the border. Unaided
by the illustration, probably many different designs might
have been drawn, to which the description would have applied;
and the description furnished no aid whatever in identifying
the design. So, in the present case, the design is sufficiently
identified by the illustration, without the aid of any description. In the language of ยง '172, before cited, the design is
sufficiently represented by the jhotograph.
Undoubtedly the claim in this case covers the design as a
whole, and not any part of it as a part; and it is to be tested
as a whole, as to novelty and infringement. The answer admits that Righter was the original and first inventor of the
design for which the patent was granted, and does not question the novelty of the invention.
Exception is taken to the form of the interlocutory decree,
in that, while it awards a recovery for the profits and damages
from the infringement of the design, it orders an account to be
taken of the profits of the defendants from infringing upon the
exclusive rights of the plaintiffs "by the manufacture, use and

16

OCTOBER TER

,- 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

sale of carpeting bearing said patented design,'' and of the additional damages suffered by the plaintiffs "by reason of said
infringements." We do not think the decree is open to the
objection made. It is not like the decree in Lilefteid v.
Perry, 21 Wall. 205, 228. It directs an account of the profits
from the infringement. The infringement could be'committed
only by making, using, and selling carpets containing the patented design; but the profits and damages to be accounted for
are described as only those from the infringement.
It is also contended, that the weight of the evidence on the
question of infringement was with the defendants. The court
below found otherwise. It appears by the record that a piece
of carpet, Exhibit No. 2, was introduced in evidence as containing the patented design; and another piece of carpet, Exhibit
No. 3, as being the defendants' carpet, alleged to infringe.
Those exhibits have not been produced on the heaxifig in this
court, although the brief for the appellants states that the Circuit Court evidently decided the question of infringement with
little aid other than ocular inspection of the samples. This
court has not the berefit of any such aid. We find, however,
in the record, testimony of a witness tu the effect that, from
his experience as a seller of carpets, he thinks it would be
almost impossible for any one who had not seen the two carpets together to tell them apart; and of another witness, that,
in his opinion, not one customer in twenty-five would know the
difference; and other testimony tending to the same result.
While there is evidence contradictory of this, we cannot, in
the absence of ocular inspection, take it upon ourselves to say
that the Circuit Court erred in finding infringement.
The only remaining question is that of the amount of damages. The master and the Circuit Court proceeded on a view
which had been adopted by that court in the three cases adjudged by it, the decrees in which were reversed by this court
in Dobson v. IHarford Carpet Co., 114 U. S. 439. The present
case was decided by the Circuit Court before such reversal.
We are of opinion that the decision cited covers all the questions involved in the case at bar, and requires that the final
decree in it should be reversed, In the cases in 114 U. S., the

DOBSON v. DORNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

patents being for designs for carpets, it was found that no
profits had been made by the defendant, but the Circuit Court
allowed to the plaintiff, as damages, in respect to the yards of
infringing carpet made and sold by the defendant, the sum per
yard which was the profit of the plaintiff in making and selling
carpets with the patented design, there being no evidence as to
the value imparted to the carpet by the design. This court
held that such award of damages was improper, and that only
nominal damages should have been allowed. It is not necessary to recapitulate the views set forth in 114 U. S., which
controlled that decision. The present case cannot be distinguished.
It is urged that the principle on which damages are to be
computed in respect to a patent for a machine, or for an improvdment in a machine, or for a process, is not applicable to
a patent for a design, because, in a patent for a design, the
result is patented, while in the other kind of patent the means
are patented; that in the design patent there is no other way
of effecting the result, while in the other there generally is:
and that, therefore, in the design patent the entire profits or
damages on the article containing the design are to be given,
while in the other only those belonging to the particular improvement patented are to be allowed. But we think all that
is here urged is covered by what was said in the cases in 114
U. S. The plaintiff must show what profits or damages are
attributable to the use of the infringing design.
In the present case, the master found that the plaintiffs'
profit on their carpets was a certain percentage, and assumed
or presumed that the defendants' carpets, which were far inferior in quality as well as in market value, displaced those of
the plaintiffs to the extent of the sales by the defendants, and
held that the entire profit which the plaintiffs would have received, at such percentage, from the sale of an equal quantity
of their owl carpets of the same pattern, was the proper measure of their damages. The defendants' carpets were so inferior
in fquality that they sold them at a much less price than the
plaintiffs got for their carpets, and even at those prices the
defendants made no profits. Under these circumstance there
VOL. CXVM-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

can be no presumption that the plaintiffs would hage sold their
better quality of carpets in place of the defendants' poorer
quality, if the latter had not existed, or that the pattern would
have induced the purchasers from the defendants to give to the
plaintiffs the higher price. On the contrary, the presumption
is at least equal that the cheaper price, and not the pattern, sold
the defendants' carpets. There was no satisfactory testinlony
that those who bought the cheap carpets from the defendants
would have bought the higher priced ones from the plaintiffs,
or that the design added anything to the defendants' 'price, or
promoted their sale of the particular carpet; and none to show
what part of the defendants' price was to be attributed to the
design.
It does not evade the force of the principle governing the
case, that, in arriving at the percentage of profit made by the
plaintiffs on their sales, the cost was made up by computing all
the items which entdred into the production of their carpets.
The objection is to taking the whole of that profit as the meaure of damages, on the assumption that the whole of it was
due solely to the design, and on the further assumpbion that
the plaintiffs would have sold of their higher grade carpets a
quantity equal to the cheaper lower grade carpets sold by the
defendants.
:Theftal decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court, with direction to disallow the
award of damages, and to awardsix cents damages, and to
allow to the defendants a recovery for their costs after interlocutory decree, and to the plaintiffs a recovery for their
costs to and including interlocutory decree.
MR . JUSTiE FmLD.-I concur in the reversal of the decree,
bt am of opinion that the patent was invalid, and that the
hould, therefore, be dismissed.

