OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

under the law as it then existed. On the other hand, it is not
probable that Congress, knowing, as we must presume it did,
that that officer had, in virtue of a statute-whose object was
to fix his salary-received annually a salary of $7500 from the
date of the creation of his office, and after expressly declaring
in the act of 1878, 20 Stat. 91, 98, that he should receive that
salary from and after July 1, 1878, and again, in 1879, that he
should receive the same amount from and after July 1, 1879,
should, at a subsequent date, make a permanent reduction of
his salary without indicating its purpose to do so, either by express words of repeal, or by such provisions as would compel
the courts to say that harmony between the old and the new
statute was impossible. While the case is not free from difficulty the court is of opinion that, according to the settled
rules of interpretation, a statute fixing the annual salary of a
public officer at a named sum, without limitation as to time,
should not be deemed abrogated' or suspended by subsequent
enactments which merely appropriated a less amount for the
servic of -that officer for particular fiscal years, and which contained no words that"expressly or by clear implication modified
or xepealed the previous law.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

SANTA. CLARA COUNJTY v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC

RAILROAD COMPANY.
CALIFORNIA v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY.
CALIFORNIA v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued January26, 27, 28, 29, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

The defendant Corporations are persons within the inteat of the clause in section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constituti6n of the United

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PA.

RAILROAD. 395

Statement of Facts.
States, which lorbids a State to deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the Taws.
Under the constitution and laws of California, relating to taxation, fences
erected upon the line between the roadway of a iailroad and the land of coterminous proprietors are not part of "the roadway," to be included by
the State Board in its valuation of the property pf the corporation, but are
I improvements" assessable by the local authorities of the proper county.
An assessment of a tax is invalid, and will not support an action for the recovery of the tax, if, being laid upon different kinds of property as a unit,
it includes property not legally assessable, and if the part of the tax
aWsessed upon the latter property cannot be separated from the other part
of it.
The State Board of Equalization of California were required by law, to assess
the franchise, roadway, &c., of all railroads operated irk more than one
county and apportion the same to the dlifferent countiesin proportion to the
number of miles of railway in each. They made such assessment of the
SouthernPacific Railroad, improperly including therein-the fences between
the roadway and the coterminous proprietor, and apportioned it and rturned it as required to the different counties. In a suit by one of the
counties to recover its proportion of the tax levied in'accordance with'such
apportionment and return, the court below, at the trial, found that "said
fences were valued at $300 per mile," which was the only finding on the
subject; and it did not appear that the county, plaintiff, offered to take
judgment for a sum excluding the rate on the value of the fences within
the county at that valuation. Held, (1) That the finding was too vague'and
indefinite to serve as a basis for estimating the aggregate valuation of the
fences included in the assessment, or the amount thereof apportioned to the
respective counties; (2) That, under the circumstances, the court could not
assume that the State Board included the fences in their assessment at the
rate of $300 per mile for every mile of the railroad within the State, counting one or both sides of the roadway; and could not, after eliminating that
amount from the assessment, givo judgment for the balance of the tax, if
any.

These actions, which were argued together, were brought to
recover unpaid' taxes assessed against the several railroad corporations, defendants, under the laws of the State of California.
The main-almost the only-questions discussed by counsel in
the elaborate arguments related to the .constitutionality of the
taxes. This court, in its opinion passed by these questions, and
decided the cases upon the questions whether under the constitution and laws of California, the fences on the line of the railroads should have been valued and assessed, if at all, by the
local officers, or by the State Board of Equalization; whether,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

on the record, the assessments and taxation, upon the fences are
separable from the .i'est of the*aisessment and taxation; and
what was the effect of the record upon the rights of the State
and the county.
One of the points made and discussed at length in the brief
of counsel for defendants iki error was that "Corporations are
persons within the meaning -of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States." Before argument
MR. OCH11F JUSTICE WAITE said: The court does not wish to
hear argument on'the question whether the provision in the
Fourteenth Amendment.to the Constitution, which forbids a
State to deny to any person- within ifs jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws, applies to these -corporations. We are
all of opinion that it does.
.Mr. D. f. Delmas and _3P. A. L. ]?odes for Santa Clara
County. On the points on which the decision turned, .M'.
Delnas said as follows:
I now take leave of the Federal questions in this cause, and
proceed to examine briefly some minor points which include
no question of constitutional law, but simply refer to modes of
procedure under the statutes of the State.
Objection is made to a recovery here because it is claimed
that the fences on the line of the road were improperly included
in the assessment of the roadway, because, in the first place,
they were not proved to be the property of defendant, and
secondly, they were not within the jurisdiction of the Board of
Equalization. It is said that the plaintiff ought to have proved
that the fences belonged to defendant. Thejrimc&faee case
made out by the plaintiff's documents establishes everything
necessary to its recovcry-amnong which is that the property
assessed bhlongs to the taxpayers asessed. Besides, as a general
rule, fences belong to the. railroads whose right of way they euclos(. Civ. Code, § 4S5. The defendants, ia rebuttal of plaintiffsj1)P11nafaeiecase, have not proved that they did not own the
fences. All the presumptions, then, arising from the plaintiff's
P-ri,nafacie case, remain standing in full force.
Such fences are not enumerated by the Code among the

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 397
Opinion of the Court.

things assessable by local assessors. These are, "the depots,
station grounds, shops, buildings, and gravel beds." Political
Code, § 3661. Obviously, then, unless the legislature intended
they should not be taxed, they are to be assessed by the Board
of Equalization as a part of the roadway.
Fences built upon the line of the roadway are a part of the
roadway as necessary t6 its protection. As much so as the
railing of a bridge is a part of the bridge, or the framework of
a tunnel is part of the tunnel., Such has aJways been the
understanding of the law in California, and the fences have
always been assessed by the Board of Equalization.
I have never been able to grasp the proposition that fences
are no part of the railroad which they enclose. If the defendant made a conveyance of "its railroad from San Francisco to
San Josg" would not the fences pass by the deed? Clearly as
much so as a sale of my garden would convey the fence which
encloses the garden.
.Jfr.
E7. .arshall, Attorney General of California for all
the plaintiffs in error.
.Mlr. S. TF. Sanderson, Mr. George F. Edmunds and .r.
i'lliam -. Evart8 for defendants in error.
Mz. JUsTi

IEHR x delivered the opinion of the court.
These several actions were brought-the first one in the
Superior Court of Santa Clara County, California, the others
in the Superior Court of Fresno County, in the same Statefor the recovery of certain county and State taxes, claimed to
be due from the Southern Pacific iRailroad Company and the
Central Pacific Railroad Company under assessments made by
the State Board of Equalization upon their respective franchises, roadways, roadbeds, rails, and rolling stock. In the action
by Santa Clara County the amount claimed is $13,366.53 for
the fiscal year of 1882. For that sum, with five per cent.
penalty, interest at the rate of two per cent. per month from
December 27, 1882, cost of advertising, and ten per cent. for
attorney's fees, judgment is asked against the Southern Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, '1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Company. In the other action against the same company the amount claimed is $5029.27 for the fiscal year of 1881,
with five per cent. added for non-payment of taxes and costs of
collection. In the action against the Central Pacific Railroad
Company judgment is asked for $25,950.50 for the fiscal year
of 1881, with like penalty and costs of -collection.
The answer in each case puts in issue all the naterial allegations of the complaint, and sets up various special defences, to
which reference will be made further on.
With its answer the defendant, in each case, filed a petition,
with a proper bond, for the removal of the action into the
Circuit Court of the United- States for the District, as one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The right of removal was recognized by the State court, and
the action proceeded in the Circuit Court. Each case-the
parties having filed a written stipulation waiving a jury-was
tried by the court. There was a special finding of facts upon
which judgment was entered in each case for the defendant.
The general question to be determined is, whether the judgment can be sustained upon all, or either, of the grounds upon
which the defendants rely.
The case as made by the pleadings and the special finding of
facts is as follows:
By an act of Congress, approved July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292,
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company was created, with
power to construct and maintain, by certain designated routes,
a continuous railroad and telegraph line from Springfield,
Missouri, to the Pacific. For the purpose--which is avowed
by Congress-of facilitating the construction of the line, and
-thereby securing the safe and speedy transportation of mails,
troops, munitions of war, and public stores, a right of way over
the public domain was given to the company, and a liberal
grant of the. public lands was made to it, The railroad so to
be constructed, and every part of it was declared to be a post
route and military road, subject to the use of the United
States for postal, military, naval, and all other government
service, and to such regulations as Congress might impose for
restricting the charges for government transportation. By the

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 399
Opinion of the Court.

18th section of the act, the Southern Pacific Railroad Company-a corporation previously organized under a general
statute of California, passed May 20, 1861, Stat. Cal. 1861, p.
607-was authorized to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad at such point, near the boundary line of that State,
as the former company deemed most suitable for a railroad to
San Francisco, with "uniform gauge and rate of freight or
fare with said road;" and in consideration thereof, and "to
aid in its construction" the act declared that it should have
similar grants of land, "subject to all the conditions and
limitations" provided in said act of Congress, "and shall be
required to construct its road on like regulations, as to time
§ 1,.2,
and manner, with the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad."
3, 11 and 18.
In INovember, 1866, the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, filed in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior their respective acceptances of the act.
By an act of the legislature of California, passed April 4,
1870, to aid in giving effect to the act of Congress relating
to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, it was declared
that :
"To enable the said company to more fully and completely
comply with and perform the requirements, provisions, and
conditions of the said act of.Congress, and all other acts of
Congress now in force, or which may hereafter be enacted, the
State of California hereby consents to said act, and the said
compaxiy, its successors and assigns, are hereby authorized to
change the line of its railroad so as to reach the eastern
boundary line of the State of California by such .route as the
company shall determine to be the most practicable, and to
file new and amendatory articles of association, and the right,
power, and privilege is hereby granted to, conferred upon, and
vested in them to construct, maintain, and operate by- steam
or other power the said railroad and telegraph line mentioned
in said acts of Congress, hereby confirming to, and v6sting in,
the said company. its successors and assigns; all the rights,
privileges, franchises, power and authority conferred upon,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

granted to, or, vested in said company by the said acts of Conand any act of Congress which may be hereafter enacted."
gress,
Subsequently,
by the act 6f March 3, 1871, i6 Stai. 573,
Congress incorporated the Texas Pacific Railroad Company,
with power to construct and maintain a continuous railroad
and telegraph line from Marshall, in the State of Texas, to a
point at or near El Paso, thence through lew Mexico and
Arizona to San Diego, pursuing, as near as might be, the
thirty-second parallel of latitude. To aid in its construction,
Congress gave it, also, the right of way over the public domain,
and made to it a liberal grant of public lands. The 19th section provided:
"That the Texas Pacific Railroad Company shall be, and it
is hereby, declared to be a military and post road; and for the
purpose of insuring the carrying of 'the mails, troops, munitions of war, supplies, and stores of the United States, no act
of the company nor any law of any State or Territory shall
ihnpede, delay, or prevent the said company from performing
-its obligations to the United States in that regard: Provided,
That said road shall be subject to the use of the United States
for postal, military, and all other governmental services, at
fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to exceed the
price paid by private parties for the same kind of service, and
the government shall at all times have the preference in the
use of the same for the purpose aforesaid."
The twenty-third section of that act has special reference to
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and is as follows:
"SEc. 23. That, for the purpose of connecting the Texas

Pacific railroad with the city of San Francisco, the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company of California is hereby authorized
(subject to the la'ws of California) to construct a line of railroad fiem a point at or near Tehacapa Pass, by way of Los
Angeles, to the Texas Pacific railroad, at or near the Colorado
River, with the same rights, grants, and privileges, and subject
to the same limitations, restrictions, and conditions, as were
granted to said Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California by the act ol July twenty-seven, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six: Provided,however, That this section shall in no way

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 401
Opinion of the Court.

affect or impair the rights, present or prospective, of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, or any other railroad
company."
Under the authority of this legislation, Federal and State,
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company constructed a line of
railroad from San Francisco, connecting with the Texas and
Pacific Railroad (formerly the Texas Pacific Railroad) at Sierra
Banca, in Texas; and with other railroads it is operated as
one continuous line (except for that part of the route occupied
by the Central Pacific Railroad) from Marshall, Texas, to San
Francisco. It is stated in the record that the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company of California, since the commencement of
this action, has completed its road to the Colorado River, at
or near the Needles, to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad, and th-.t with the latter road it constitutes a continuous line from Springfield, Missouri, to the Pacific, except as to
the connection, for a relatively short distance, over the road of
the Central Pacific Railroad Company.
On the 17th of December, 1877, the said Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, and other railroad corporations, then existing under the laws of California, were legally consolidated, and
a new corporation thereby formed, under the name of the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, the present defendant in
error, 59.30 miles of whose road is in Santa Clara County and
17.93 miles in Fresno County.
On the 1st of April, 1875, this company was indebted to
divers persons in large sums of money advanced to construct
and equip its road. To secure that indebtedness, it executed
on that day a mortgage for 832,520,000 on its road, franchises,
rolling-stock and appurtenances, and on a large number of
tracts of land, in different counties of California, aggregating
over eleven million acres. These lands were granted to the
company by Congress under the above--mentioned acts, and are
used for agricultural, grazing, and other purposes not connected
Of those patented, 3138,
with the business of the railroad.
acres are in Santa Clara County and 18,789 acres in Fresno,
County. When these proceedings were instituted no part of
its above mortgage debt had been paid, except the accruing invor,. cxvm-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

terest and $1,632,000 of the principal, leaving outstanding
against it $30,898,000.
In the year 1852 California, by legislative enactment, granted
a right of way through that State to the United States for the
purpose of constructing a railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean-declaring that the interests of California, as well
as the whole Union, "require the immediate action of the Government of the United States, for the construction of a national
thoroughfare, connecting the navigable waters of the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans, for the purpose of the national safety, in the
event of war, and to promote the highest commercial interests
of the Republic." Stat. Cal. 1852, p. 150. By an act passed
July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, § 1, 8, Congress incorporated the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, with power to construct and
maintain a continuous railroad and telegraph line to the western boundary of what was then Nevada Territory, "there to
meet and connect with the line of the Central Pacific Railroad
Company of California." The declared object of extending
government aid to these enterprises was to effect the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River
to the Pacific, which, for all purposes of communication, travel,
and transportation, so far as the public and the General Government are concerned, should be operated "as one connected
continuous line." Ibid. §§.6, 9, 10, 12, 17, 18.
In 1864 the State of California passed an act to aid in carrying out the provisions of this act of Congress, the first section
of which declared that:
"To enable said company more fully and completely to comply with and perform the provisions and conditions of said act
of Congress, the said company, their successors and assigns, are
hereby authorized and empowered, and the right, power, and
privilege is hereby granted- to, conferred upon, and vested in
them, to construct, maintain, and operate the said railroad and
telegraph line, not only in the $tate of California, but also in
the said Territories lying east -of and between said State and
the Missouri River, with such branches and extensions of said
railroad and telegraph line, or either of them, as said company
may deem necessary or proper, and also the right of way for
said railroaa and telegraph line over any lands belonging to

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SO)UTH7 PAC. RAILROAD. 403
Opinion of the Court.

this State, and on, over, and along any streets, roads, highways, rivers, streams, water, and water courses, but the same
to be so constructed as not to obstruct or destroy the passage
or navigation of the same, and also the right to condemn and
appropriate to the use of said company such private property
rights, privileges, and franchises as may be proper, necessary,
or convenient for the purposes of said railroad and telegraph,
the compensation therefor to be ascertained and paid under
and by special proceedings, as prescribed in the act providing
for the incorporation of railroad companies, approved May 20th,
1861, and the act supplementary and amendatory thereof, said
.company to be subject to all the laws of this State concerning
railroad and telegraph lines, except that messages and property
of the United States, of this State, and of said company shall have
priority of transportation and transmission over said line of
railroad and telegraph, hereby confirming to and vesting in
said company all the rights privileges, franchises, power, and
authority conferred upon, granted to, and vested in said company by said act of Congress, hereby repealing all laws and
parts of laws inconsistent or in conflict with the provisions of
this act, or the rights and privileges herein granted."
In 1870, the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California
and the Western Pacific Railroad Company formed themselves
into one corporation under the name of the Central Pacific Railroad Cqmpany, the defendant in one of these actions, 61.06 miles
of whose road is in Fresno County. The company complied
with the several acts of Congress, and there is in operation a
continuous line of railway from the Missouri River to the PacificOcean, the Central Pacific Railroad Company owniig and
operating the portion thereof between Ogden, in the Territory
of Utah, and San Francisco.
Wben the present action was instituted against this company
the United States had and now have a lien, created by the acts
of Congress of 1862 and 1864, for $30,000,000, with a large
amount of interest, upon its road, rolling-stock, fixtures and
franchises; and there were also outstanding bonds for a like
amount issued by the company prior to January 1, 1875, and*
secured by a mortgage upon the same property.
Such were the relations which these two companies held to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States and to the State when the assessments in
question were-made for purposes of taxation.
It is necessary now to refer to those provisions of the constitution and laws of the State which, it is claimed, sustain these
assessments.
The constitution of California, adopted in 1879, exempts from
taxation growing crops, property used exclusively for public
schools, and such as may belong to the United States, or to that
State, or to :any of her county or municipal corporations, and
declares that the legislature "may provide, except in the case
of credits secured by mortgage or trust deed, for a reduction
from credits of debts due to bonagfde residents" of the State.
It is provided in the first section of Article XIIL that, with
these exceptions-" all property in the State, not exempt under the laws of the United States, shall be taxed in proportion
to its value, to be ascertained as .provided by law. The word
'property,' as used in this article and section, is hereby declared
to include moneys, credits, bonds, stocks, dues, franchises, and
all other matters and things, real, personal and mixed, capable
of private ownership."
The fourth section of the same article provides:
"A mortgage, deed of trust, contract, or other obligation by
which a debt is secured, shall, for the purposes of assessment
and taxation, be deemed and treated as an interest in the property affected thereby. ".Exceptas to railroadand other quasi.ublic corporations,in case of debts so secured, the value of the
property affected by such mortgage, deed of trust, contract, or
obligation, less the value of such security, shall be assessed and
taxed to the owner of the property, and the value of such security shall be assessed and taxed to the owner thereof, in the
county, city, or district in which the property affected thereby
is situate. The taxes so levied shall be a lien upon the property and security, and may be paid by either party to such security; if paid by the owner of the security, the tax so levied
upon the property affected thereby shall become a part of the
debt so secured ; if the owner of the property shall pay the tax
so levied on such security, it shall constitute a payment thereon, and to the extent of such payment, a full discharge thereof:
Provided, That if any such security or indebtedness shall be

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 405
Opinion of the Court.

paid by any such debtor or debtors, after assessment and before
the tax levy, the amount of such levy may likewise be retained
by such debtor or debtors, and shall be computed according to
the tax levy for the preceding year."
The ninth section makes provision for the election of a State
Board of Equalization, "whose duty it, shall be to equalize the
valuation of the taxable property of the several counties in the
State for the purpose of taxation.?' The boards of supervisors
of the several counties constitute boards of equalization for
their respective counties, and they equalize the valuation of the
taxable property therein for purposes of taxation-assessments,
whether by the State or county boards, to "confoirm). to the
true value in money of the property" contained in the assessment roll.
The tenth section declares:
"All property, except a8 Ie;,einafter,In&this seotionm provided,
shall be assessed in the county, city, city and county, town,
township, or district in which it is situated, in the manner prescribed by law. The franchise,r'oadway, road-bed, 2.ails, and
roll~ag-htock of all 'raihoadsoperatedin more tham one county
in this State shall be assessed by the State Board of Equalization at their actual value, and the same shall be apportioned
to the counties, cities and counties, cities, towns, townships, and
districts in which such railroads are. located, in proportion to
the number of miles of railway laid in such counties, cities
and counties, cities, towns, townships, and districts."
The assessments in question, it is contended, were made in
conformity with these constitutional provisions, and with what
is known as b 3664 )fthe Political Code of California. That
section made it the duty of the State Board of Equalization,
on or before the first Monday in May in each year to "assess
the franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails, and rolllng-stock of
railroads operated in more than one county-to which class
belonged the defendants. It required every corporation of
that class, by certain officers, or by such officer as the State
Board should designate, to furnish the board with a sworn
statement showing, among other things, in detail, for the year
ending March 1, the whole number of miles of railway
owned, operated, or leased by it in the State, the value thereof

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

per mile, and all of its property of every kind located in the
State; the number and value of its engines, passenger, mail,
express, baggage, freight and other cars, or property used in
operating and repairing its railway in the State, and on railways which are parts of lines extending beyond the limits of
the State. It is also directed that "the said property shall be assessed at its actual value;" that the "assessment shall be made
upon the entire railway within the State, and shall include the
right 6f way, road-bed, track, bridges, culverts, and rollingstock;" and that "the depots, station grounds, shops, buildings, and gravel beds shall be assessed by the assessors of the
county where situated, as other property." It further declares:
"On or before the fifteenth day of May, in each year, said
board shall transmit to the county assessor of each county
through which any railway, operated in more than one county,
may run, a statement showing the length of the main track or
tracks of such railway within the county, together with a description of the whole of said tracks within the county including the right -of way by-metes and bounds, or other description
sufficient for identification, and the assessed value per mile of
the same, as fixed by a pro rata distribution per mile of the
assessed value of the whole franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails,
and rolling-stock of such railway, within this State. Said statement shall be entered on the assessment roll of the county. At
the first meeting of the board of supervisors, after such statement is received by the county assessor, they shall make and
cause to be entered in the proper record-book an order stating
and declaring the length of the main track, and the assessed
value of such railway lying in each city, town, township, school
district, or'lesser taxing district in their county, through which
such railway runs, as fixed by the State Board of Equalization,
which shall constitute the taxable value of said property for
taxable purposes in such city, town, township, school, road, or
other district." Stat. Cal. 1881, ch. '73, § 1, page 82.
These companies, within due time, filed with the State Board
the detailed statement required by that section.
At the trials below, no record of assessment against the respective defendants, as made by the State Board, was given in
evidence, and there was-introduced no written evidence of the

SANTA CLARA.CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 407
Opinion of the Court.

assessment except an .official communication from the State
Board to each of. the assessors of Santa Clara and Fresno
Counties, called, in the special findings, the assessment roll for
the particular county. The roll for Fresno county, in 1881,
relating to the Southern Pagific Railroad Company, is as
follows:
Orginal.-AssesmentBook of the Property of .Fresno County for the year
1881. A8essed to all known owners or claimants, and when unknown to
unknown owners or clatmant8.
SR¢2j
J

R
A

. "
DrscnrTIox op PnopxuT.
Real estate other than city and town lots. r
and
metes
Subdivision of sections or
bounds. City and town lots. Improve- z
ments. Personal property.

a=

q

oo

"
0

10CoC
Q

OTFXcE oy
TiE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION,
SACR
ENTO, May 14, 88.
Soutbern
Pacific To W. H. MCKENZIE
295,845
Railroad
Assmesor of !"resno County.
Company. Sin: The State Board of Equalization on
the 2nd day of May, 1881, assessed for the
year 1881, the Southern Pacific Railroad Company for its franchise, roadway, road-bed,
rails and rolling.stock, in the State of Callfornia, In the aggregate sum of $11,739 915.
The entire llne of main track of said railroad of said company in the said State is
711.51 miles.
The length of the main track of said railway in Fresno County is 1793 miles.
The-description of the whole of the main
track of the railway of the said Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and the right of way
for the same, in the county of Fresno, is as
follows: Beginning at the town of Huron
and running easterly in the direction of
Goshen, in 'ilare County, to the east line
of Fresno.County. The assessed value pex
mile of said railway, as fixed by a ro rata
distribution per mile of the assessed value of
the whole franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails
and rolling-stock of such railway of the said
company within this State is $16,f 00. The
apportionment of the assessment of the said
franchise. roadway, road-beds, rails, and
rolling-stock. by this board, forand to Fresno
County, is 295,845.
WARREN DUTTON Chairman,
M. M. DR-EW
D. M. KENF1hLD,
T. D. HEISKELL,
State Boarr of Equalization.
E. W. IdASLIN, Clerk.

(Duly Certified by the Auditor.)

6

02,86

0

69 12,9

5

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

There were similar rolls in reference to the Central Pacific
Railroad in the same county, for the same year, and the Southern Pacific in Santa Clara County for 1882. For each of those
years the board of supervisors of the respective counties made
an apportionment of the taxes among the legal subdivisions of
such counties.
It is stated in the findings that the delinquent lists for those
years, so far as they related to the taxes in question, were duly
made up in form corresponding with the original assessment
roll; that in pursuance of § 3738 of the Political Code of California, the board of supervisors of the respective coufities duly
passed an order, entered on the minutes, dispensing with the
duplicate assessment roll for that year; that the controller of
the State transmitted a letter to the tax collector of the county,
in pursuance of the provisions of § 3899 of that Code, directing
him to offer the property for sale but once, and if there were
no bonacfde purchasers to withdraw it from sale; that the tax
collector, in obedience to the provisions of that section, transmitted to the controller, with his endorsement thereon of the
action had in the premises, a certified copy of the entry upon
the delinquent list relating to the tax in question in these several actions; that such endorsement shows that the tax collector
had offered the property for sale and had withdrawn it because
thee was no purchaser for the same; and that the controller,
in pursuance of the provisions of the same section, transmitted
to the tax collector of the county a letter directing him to bring
suit.
In each case there were, also, the following findings:
"The State Board of Equalization, in assessing said value of
said property to and against defendant, assessed the full cash
value of said railroad, roadway, road-bed, rails, rolling-stock,
and franchises, without deducting therefrom the value of the
mortgage, or any part thereof, given and existing thereon as
aforesaid, to secure the indebtedness of said company to the
holders of said bonds, notwithstanding they had full knowledge
of the existence of the said mortgage; and in making said assessment the said State Board of Equalization did not consider
or treat said mortgage as an interest in said property, but as-

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 409
Opinion of the Court.

sessed the whole value thereof to the defendant, in the same
manner as if there had been no mortgage thereon."
"The State Board of Equalization, in making the supposed
assessment of said roadway of defendant, did knowingly and
designedly include in the valuation of said roadway the value
of fences erected upon the line between said roadway and the
land of coterminous proprietors. Said fences were valued at
$300 per mile."
The special grounds of defence by each of the defendants
were: 1. That its road is a part of a continuous postal and military route, constructed and maintained under the authority of
the United States, by means in part obtained from the General
Government; that the company having, with the consent of
the State, become subject to the requirements, conditions, and
provisions of the acts of Congress, it thereby ceased to be merely
a State corporation, and became one of the agencies or instrumentalities employed by the General Government to execute
its constitutional powers; and that the franchise to operate a
postal and military route, for the transportation of troops, munitions of war, public stores, and the mails, being derived from
the Uniced States, cannot, without their consent, be subjected
to State taxation. 2. That the provisions of the constitution
and laws of California, in respect to the assessment for taxation
of the property of railway corporations operating railroads in
more than one county, are in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution, in so far as they require the
assessment of their property at its full money value, without
making deduction, as in the case of railroads operated in one
county, and of other corporations, and of natural persons, for
the value of the mortgages covering the property assessed;
thus imposing upon the defendant unequal burdens, and to that
extent denying to it the equal protection of the laws. 3. That
what is known as § 3664 of the Political Code of California,
under the authority of which in part the assessment was
made, was not constitutionally enacted by the legislature, and
had not the force of law. 4. That novalid assessment appears
in fact to have been made by the State Board. 5. That no interest is recoverable in this action until after judgment. 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

That the assessment upon which the action is based is void, because it included property which the State Board of Equaliza.
tion had no jurisdiction, under any circumstances, to assess, and
that, as such illegal part was so blended with the balance that
it cannot be separated, the entire assessment must be treated
as a nullity.
The record contains elaborate opinions stating the grounds
upon which judgments were ordered for the defendants. Mr.
Justice Field overruled the.first of the special defences above
named, but sustained the second. The circuit judge, in addition, held that § 3664: of the Political Code had not been passed
in the mode required by the State Constitution, and, consequently, was no part of the law of California. These opinions
are reported as The Santa Clara-airoad Tax Ca8e, in 9 Sawyer, 165, 210.
The propositions embodied in the conclusions reached in the
Circuit Court were discussed with marked ability by counsel
who appeared in this court for the respective parties. Their
importance cannot well be over-estimated; for, they not only
involve a construction of the recent amendments to the National
Constitution in their application to the Constitution and the
legislation of a State, but upon their determination, if it were
necessary to consider them, would depend the system of taxation devised by that State for raising revenue, from certain corporations, for the support of her government. These questions
belong to a class which this court should not decide, unless
their determination is essential to the disposal of the case in
which they arise. Whether the present cases require a decision
of them depends upon the soundness of another proposition,
upon which the court below, in view of its conclusions upon
other issues, -lid not deem it necessary to pass. We allude to
the claim of the defendantin each case, that the entire assessment is a nullity, upon the ground that the State Board of
Equalization included therein property which it was without
jurisdiction to assess for taxation.
The argtfment in behalf of the defendant is: That the State
Board knowingly and designedly included in its assessment of
"the franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails, and rolling-stock" of

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 411
Opinion of the Court.
each company, the value of the fences erected upon the line
between its roadway and the land of coterminous proprietors;
that the fences did not constitute a part of such roadway, and,
therefore, could only be assessed for taxation by the proper
officer of the several counties in which they were situated; and
that an entire assessment which includes property not assessable by the State Board against the party assessed is void, and,
therefore, insufficient to support an action, at least, when-and
such is claimed to be the case here-it does not appear, with
reasonable certainty, from the face of the assessment or otherwise, what part of the aggregate valuation represents the property so illegally included therein.
If these positions are tenable, there will be no occasion to
consider the grave questions of constitutional law upon which
the case was determined below; for, in that event, the judgment can be affirmed upon the ground that the assessment
cannot properly be the basis of a judgment against the defendant.
That the State Board purposely included in its assessment
and valuation the fences erected on the line between the railroads and the lands of adjacent proprietors, at the rate of $300
per mile, is undoubtedly true: for it is so stated in the special
finding of facts; and that finding must be taken here to be indisputable. It is equally true that that tribunal has no general
power of assessment, but only jurisdiction to assess "the franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails, and rolling-stock" of railroad
corporations operating roads in more than one county, and that
all other property of such corporations, subject to taxation, is
assessable only "in the county, city, city and county, town,
township, or district, in which it is situated, in the manner prescribed by law." Such is the declaration of the State constitution. People v. Sacramento County, 59 Cal. 321, 324; Art.
XIII. § 10. It must also be conceded that "fences," erected
on the line between these railroads and the lands of adjoining
proprietors, were improperly included by the State Board in its
assessments, unless they constituted a part of the "roadway."
Some light is thrown upon this question by that clause of
§ 3664 of the Political Code of California-which, in the view

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

we take of these cases, may be regarded as having been legally enacted-providing that "the depots, station grounds, shops,
buildings, and gravel beds" shall be assessed in the county
where situated as other property. From this it seems, that
there is much of the property daily used in the business of a
railroad operated in more than one county, that is not assessable by the State Board, but only by the proper authorities of
the municipality where it is situated. So that, even if it appeared that the fences assessed by the State Board were the
property of the railroad companies, and not of the adjoining
proprietors, they could not be included in an assessment by that
board unless they were part of the roadway itself; for, as
shown, the jurisdiction of that board is restricted to the assessment of the "franc h is , roadway, road-bed, rails and rollingstock,' We come back, then, to the vital inquiry, whether
the fences could be assessed under the head of roadway? We
are of opinion that they cannot be regarded as part of the
roadway for purposes of taxation.
The Constitution of California provides that "land and improvements thereon shall be separately assessed." Art. XIIL § 2;
and, although that instrument does not define what are improvements upon land, the Political Code of the State expressly declares that the term "improvements" includes "all buildings,
structures, fixtures, fene8, and improvements erected upon or
affixed to the land." § 3617. It would seem from these provisions that fences erected upon the roadway, even if owned by
the railroad company, must be separately assessed, as" improvements," in the mode required in the case of depots, station
grounds, shops; and buildings owned by the company; namely,
by local officers in the county where they are situated. The
same considerations of public interest or convenience upon
which rest existing regulations for the assessments of depots,
station grounds, shops, and buildings of a railroad company
operated in more than one county, would apply equally to the
assessment and valuation for taxation of fences erected upon
the line of railway of the same company.
In San Francisco and .tYorth .Pac'fw Railroad Co. v. State
Board of Equalization, 60 Cal. 12, 34, which was an applica-

SANTA CLARA CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 413
Opinion of the Court.

tion, on certiorari,to annul certain orders of the State Board
assessing the property of a railroad corporation, one of the
questions was as to the meaning of the words "road-bed" and
"roadway."
The court there said: "The road-bed is the
foundation on which the superstructure of a railroad rests.
Webster. The roadway is the right of way, which has been
held to be the property liable to taxation. Appeal of N. B. &
2. R. R. CI., 32 Cal. 499. The rails in place constitute the
superstructure resting upon the road-bed." This definition was
approved in San .F7anciscov. Central Paci3fc Railroad Co., 63
Cal. 467, 469. In the latter case the question was whether certain steamers owned by the railroad company, upon which were
laid railroad tracks, and with which its passenger and freight cars
were transported from the eastern shore of the bay of San Francisco to its western shore, where the railway again commenced,
were to be assessed by the city and county of San Francisco, or
by the State Board of Equalization. The contention of the
company was that they constituted a part of its road-bed or
roadway, and must, therefore, be assessed by the State Board.
But the Supreme Court of the State held otherwise. After
observing that all the property of the company, other than its
franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails, and rolling-stock, was required by the Constitution to be assessed by the local assessors,
the court said: "They are certainly not the franchise of the
defendant corporation. They may constitute an element to be
taken into the computation to arrive at the value of the franchise of such corporation, but they are not such franchise.
It is equally as clear that they are not rails or rolling-stock.
Are they, then, embraced within the words roadway
or road-bed, in the ordinary and popular acceptation of such
words as applied to railroads? These two words, as applied
to common roads, ordinarily mean the same thing, but as applied, to railroads their meaning is not the same. The road-ed
referred to in g 10, in our judgment, is the bed or foundation
on which the superstructure of the railroad rests. Such is the
definition given by both Worcester and Webster, and we think
it correct. The roadway has a more extended signification as
applied to railroads. In addition to the part denominated

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

road-bed, the roadway includes whatever space of ground the
company is allowed by law in which to construct its road-bed
and lay its track. Such space is defined in subdivision 4 of
the 17th section and the 20th section of the act ' to provide for
the incorporation of railroad companies,' etc., approved May 20,
1861. Stat. 1861, p. 607; . F. & ff. P. 1?. R. Co. v. State
Board, 60 Cal. 12."
The argument in support of the proposition that these
steamers-constituting, as they did, a necessary link in the
line of the company's railway, and upon which rails were actually laid for the running of cars-were, a part either of the
road-bed or roadway of the railroad, is much more cogent than
the argument that the fences erected upon the line between
a roadway and the lands of adjoining proprietors are a part of
the roadway itself. It seems to the court that the fTnces in
question are not, within the meaning of the local law, a part
of the roadway for purposes of taxation; but are "improvements" assessable by the local authorities of the proper county,
and, therefore, were improperly included by the State Board
in its valuation of the property of the defendants.
The next inquiry that naturally arises is, whether the different kinds of property assessed by the State Board are distinct
and separable upon the face of the assessment, so that the company being thereby informed of the amount of taxes levied
upon each, could be held to have been in default in not tendering such sum, if any, as was legally due ? Upon the transcript
before us, this question must be answered in the negative. No
record of assessment, as made by the State Board, was introduced at the trial, and presumably, no such record existed.
Nor is there any documentary evidence of such assessment,
except the official communication of the State Board to the
local assessors, called, in the findings, the assessment roll of the
county. That roll shows only the aggregate valuation of the
company's franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails, and rolling-stock
in the State; the length of the company's main track in the
State; its length in the county; the assessed value per mile of
the railway as fixed by the pro rata distribution per mile of the
assessed value of its whole franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails,

SANTA CLARA COUNTY v. SOUTH. PAC. R. R. CO. 415'
Opinion of the Court.
and rol ing-stock in the State; and the apportionment of the
propervy so assessed to the county.
It appears, as already stated, from the evidence, that
the fences were included in the valuation of the defendants'
property; but under what head, whether of franchise, roadway, or road-bed, does not appear. Nor can it be ascertained,
with reasonable certainty, either from the assessment roll or
from other evidence, what was the aggregate valuation of the
fences, or what part of such valuation was apportioned to the
resp& tive counties through which the railroad was operated.
If the presumption is, that the State Board included in its
valuation only such property as it had jurisdiction under the
State constitution to assess, namely, such as could be rightfully classified under the heads of franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, or rolling-stock, that presumption was overthrown
by proof that it did, in fact, include, under some one or more
of those heads, the fences in question. It was then incumbent
upon the plaintiff, by satisfactory evidence, to separate that
which was Illegal from that which was legal-assuming for
the purposes of this case only, that the assessment was, in all
other respects, legal-and thus impose upon the defendant the
duty of tendering, or enabling the court to render judgment for,
such amount, if any, as was justly due. But no such evidence
was introduced. The finding that the fences were valued at
$300 per mi is too vague and indfefinite as a basis for estimating the aggre rate valuation of the fences included in the assessment, or the amount thereof apportioned to the respective
counties. Were the fences the property of adjacent proprietors? Were they assessed at that rate for every mile of the
railroad within the State? W3re they erected on the line of
the railroad in every county ttxrough which it was operated,
or only in 9ome of them? Wherever erected, were they assessed for each side of the railway, or only for one side? These
questions, so important in determining the extent to which the
assessment included a valuation of the fences erected upon the
line between the railroad and coterminous proprietors, find no
solution in the record presented to this court.
If it be suggested that, under the circumstances, the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

might have assumed that the State Board included the fences
in their assessment, at the rate of $300 per mile for every mile
of the railroad within the Statb, counting one or both sides of
the roadway, and, having thus eliminated from the assessment
the aggregate so found, given judgment for such sum, if any,
as, upon that basis, would have been due upon the valuation of
the franchise, road-bed, roadway, rails and rolling-stock of the
defendant, the answer is, that the plaintiff did -not offer to
take such a judgment; and the court could not have rendered
one of that character with6ut concluding the plaintiff hereafter, and upon a proper assessment, from claiming against
the defendant taxes for the years in question, upon such of its
property as constituted its franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails
and rolling-stock. The case as presented to the court below,
was, therefore, one in which the plaintiff sought judgment for
an entire tax arising upon an assessment of different kinds of
property as a unit-such assessment including 'property not
legally assessable by the State Board, and the part of the tax
assessed against the latter property not being separable from
the other part. Upon such an issue, the law, we think, is for
the defendant; an assessment of that kind is invalid and will
not support an action for the recovery of the entire tax so
levied. Cooley on Taxation, 295-6, and authorities there cited;
Libby v. Burnham, 15 Mass. 144, 147; State Randolph, &c. v.
City of Plainfield,38 K. J. Law (9 Vroom), 93; Gamble v.
Witty, 55 Mississippi, 26, 35; Stone v. Bean, 15 Gray, 42, 45;
.Moshler v. 1Robie, 11 Maine (2 Fairfield), 137; Johnon v. Colburn, 36 Vt. 695; Wells v. Burbank, 17 N. H. 393, 412.
It results that the court below might have given judgment
in each- case for the defendant upon the ground that the assessment, which was the foundation of the action, included
property of material value, which the State Board was without jurisdiction to assess, and the tax, levied upon which cannot, from the record, be separated -rom that imposed upon
other property embraced in the same assessment. As the
judgment can be sustained upon this ground it is not necessary
to consider any other questions raised by the pleadings and
the facts found by the court.

