OCTOBER TERM, 1996

Syllabus

MARYLAND v. WILSON
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF SPECIAL APPEALS
OF MARYLAND
No. 95-1268.

Argued December 11, 1996-Decided February 19, 1997

After stopping a speeding car in which respondent Wilson was a passenger, a Maryland state trooper ordered Wilson out of the car upon noticing his apparent nervousness. When Wilson exited, a quantity of cocaine fell to the ground. He was arrested and charged with possession
of cocaine with intent to distribute. The Baltimore County Circuit
Court granted his motion to suppress the evidence, deciding that the
trooper's ordering him out of the car constituted an unreasonable seizure under the Fourth Amendment. The Maryland Court of Special
Appeals affirmed, holding that the rule of Pennsylvaniav. Mimms, 434
U. S. 106, that an officer may as a matter of course order the driver of
a lawfully stopped car to exit his vehicle, does not apply to passengers.
Held. An officer making a traffic stop may order passengers to get out of
the car pending completion of the stop. Statements by the Court in
Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S. 1032, 1047-1048 (Mimms "held that police
may order persons out of an automobile during a [traffic] stop" (emphasis added)), and by Justice Powell in Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U.S. 128,
155, n. 4 (Mimms held "that passengers... have no Fourth Amendment
right not to be ordered from their vehicle, once a proper stop is made"
(emphasis added)), do not constitute binding precedent, since the former
statement was dictum, and the latter was contained in a concurrence.
Nevertheless, the Mimms rule applies to passengers as well as to drivers. The Court therein explained that the touchstone of Fourth
Amendment analysis is the reasonableness of the particular governmental invasion of a citizen's personal security, 434 U. S., at 108-109, and
that reasonableness depends on a balance between the public interest
and the individual's right to personal security free from arbitrary interference by officers, id., at 109. On the public interest side, the same
weighty interest in officer safety is present regardless of whether the
occupant of the stopped car is a driver, as in Mimms, see id., at 109-110,
or a passenger, as here. Indeed, the danger to an officer from a traffic
stop is likely to be greater when there are passengers in addition to the
driver in the stopped car. On the personal liberty side, the case for
passengers is stronger than that for the driver in the sense that there
is probable cause to believe that the driver has committed a minor vehicular offense, see id., at 110, but there is no such reason to stop or detain

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)

Syllabus
passengers. But as a practical matter, passengers are already stopped
by virtue of the stop of the vehicle, so that the additional intrusion upon
them is minimal. Pp. 411-415.
106 Md. App. 24, 664 A. 2d 1, reversed and remanded.
REHNQuIsT, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'CONNOR, SCALA, SOUTER, THOMAS, GiNSBURG, and BREYER, JJ., joined.
STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which KENNEDY, J., joined, post,
p. 415. KENNEDY, J., fied a dissenting opinion, post, p. 422.

J Joseph Curran,Jr., Attorney General of Maryland, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs were
Gary E. Bair, Mary Ellen Barbera, and Kathryn Grill
Graeff,Assistant Attorneys General.
Byron L. Warnken, by appointment of the Court, 519
U.S. 804 (1996), argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
Attorney General Reno argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiaeurging reversal. On the brief were
Acting Solicitor General Dellinger,Acting Assistant Attorney General Keeney, Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben,
David C. Frederick, and Nina Goodman.*
*Briefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were fied for the State of Ohio
et al. by Betty D, Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, Jeffrey S. Sutton, State Solicitor, and Simon B. Karas and Stuart A Cole, Assistant
Attorneys General, joined by the Attorneys General for their respective
jurisdictions as follows: Jeff Sessions of Alabama, GrantWoods of Arizona,
Winston Bryant of Arkansas, Daniel E. Lungren of California, Gale A
Norton of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, M. Jane Brady
of Delaware, Robert Butterworth of Florida, James E. Ryan of Illinois,
Tom Miller of Iowa, Carla J Stovall of Kansas, A B. Chandler III of
Kentucky, RichardP Ieyoub of Louisiana, Scott Harshbargerof Massachusetts, Frank J Kelley of Michigan, Hubert Humphrey III of Minnesota,
Mike Moore of Mississippi, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg
of Nebraska, FrankieSue Del Papa of Nevada, Jeffrey R. Howard of New
Hampshire, Tom Udall of New Mexico, Dennis C. Vacco of New York,
Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota,
W. A Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Theodore Kulongoski of Oregon,
Thomas Corbett, Jr., of Pennsylvania, Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode Island,
Charles Condon of South Carolina, Mark W. Barnett of South Dakota,

MARYLAND v. WILSON

Opinion of the Court

CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case we consider whether the rule of Pennsylvania
v. Mimms, 434 U. S. 106 (1977) (per curiam), that a police
officer may as a matter of course order the driver of a lawfully stopped car to exit his vehicle, extends to passengers
as well. We hold that it does.
At about 7:30 p.m. on a June evening, Maryland state
trooper David Hughes observed a passenger car driving
southbound on 1-95 in Baltimore County at a speed of 64
miles per hour. The posted speed limit was 55 miles per
hour, and the car had no regular license tag; there was a torn
piece of paper reading "Enterprise Rent-A-Car" dangling
from its rear. Hughes activated his lights and sirens, signaling the car to pull over, but it continued driving for another
mile and a half until it finally did so.
During the pursuit, Hughes noticed that there were three
occupants in the car and that the two passengers turned to
look at him several times, repeatedly ducking below sight
level and then reappearing. As Hughes approached the car
on foot, the driver alighted and met him halfway. The
driver was trembling and appeared extremely nervous, but
nonetheless produced a valid Connecticut driver's license.
Hughes instructed him to return to the car and retrieve the
rental documents, and he complied. During this encounter,
Hughes noticed that the front-seat passenger, respondent
Jerry Lee Wilson, was sweating and also appeared extremely
Charles W. Burson of Tennessee, Jan Grahamof Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy
of Vermont, JulioA Brady of the U. S. Virgin Islands, Christine 0. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and James E.
Doyle of Wisconsin; for Americans for Effective Law Enforcement, Inc.,
et al. by Fred E. Inbau, Wayne W. Schmidt, Robert Wennerholm, James
P. Manek, John Kaye, Richard M. Weintraub, and Bernard J Farber;for
the National Association of Police Organizations, Inc., by William J Johnson; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger
and Charles L. Hobson.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

nervous. While the driver was sitting in the driver's seat
looking for the rental papers, Hughes ordered Wilson out of
the car.
When Wilson exited the car, a quantity of crack cocaine
fell to the ground. Wilson was then arrested and charged
with possession of cocaine with intent to distribute. Before
trial, Wilson moved to suppress the evidence, arguing that
Hughes' ordering him out of the car constituted an unreasonable seizure under the Fourth Amendment. The Circuit
Court for Baltimore County agreed, and granted respondent's motion to suppress. On appeal, the Court of Special
Appeals of Maryland affirmed, 106 Md. App. 24, 664 A. 2d 1
(1995), ruling that Pennsylvania v. Mimms does not apply
to passengers. The Court of Appeals of Maryland denied
certiorari. 340 Md. 502, 667 A. 2d 342 (1995). We granted
certiorari, 518 U. S. 1003 (1996), and now reverse.
In Mimms, we considered a traffic stop much like the one
before us today. There, Mimms had been stopped for driving with an expired license plate, and the officer asked him
to step out of his car. When Mimms did so, the officer noticed a bulge in his jacket that proved to be a .38-caliber
revolver, whereupon Mimms was arrested for carrying a
concealed deadly weapon. Mimms, like Wilson, urged the
suppression of the evidence on the ground that the officer's
ordering him out of the car was an unreasonable seizure, and
the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, like the Court of Special
Appeals of Maryland, agreed.
We reversed, explaining that "[t]he touchstone of our analysis under the Fourth Amendment is always 'the reasonableness in all the circumstances of the particular governmental
invasion of a citizen's personal security,"' 434 U. S., at 108109 (quoting Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1, 19 (1968)), and that
reasonableness "depends 'on a balance between the public
interest and the individual's right to personal security free
from arbitrary interference by law officers,"' 434 U. S., at
109 (quoting United States v. Brignoni-Ponce,422 U. S. 873,

MARYLAND v. WILSON

Opinion of the Court

878 (1975)). On the public interest side of the balance, we
noted that the State "freely concede[d]" that there had been
nothing unusual or suspicious to justify ordering Mimms out
of the car, but that it was the officer's "practice to order all
drivers [stopped in traffic stops] out of their vehicles as a
matter of course" as a "precautionary measure" to protect
the officer's safety. 434 U. S., at 109-110. We thought it
"too plain for argument" that this justification-officer
safety-was "both legitimate and weighty." Id., at 110. In
addition, we observed that the danger to the officer of standing by the driver's door and in the path of oncoming traffic
might also be "appreciable." Id., at 111.
On the other side of the balance, we considered the intrusion into the driver's liberty occasioned by the officer's ordering him out of the car. Noting that the driver's car was
already validly stopped for a traffic infraction, we deemed
the additional intrusion of asking him to step outside his car
"de minimis." Ibid. Accordingly, we concluded that "once
a motor vehicle has been lawfully detained for a traffic violation, the police officers may order the driver to get out of
the vehicle without violating the Fourth Amendment's proscription of unreasonable seizures." Id., at 111, n. 6.
Respondent urges, and the lower courts agreed, that this
per se rule does not apply to Wilson because he was a passenger, not the driver. Maryland, in turn, argues that we have
already implicitly decided this question by our statement in
Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S.1032 (1983), that "[i]n [Mimms],
we held that police may order persons out of an automobile
during a stop for a traffic violation," id., at 1047-1048 (emphasis added), and by Justice Powell's statement in Rakas v.
Illinois, 439 U. S. 128 (1978), that "this Court determined
in [Mimms] that passengers in automobiles have no Fourth
Amendment right not to be ordered from their vehicle, once
a proper stop is made," id., at 155, n. 4 (Powell, J., joined by
Burger, C. J., concurring) (emphasis added). We agree with
respondent that the former statement was dictum, and the

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

latter was contained in a concurrence, so that neither constitutes binding precedent.
We must therefore now decide whether the rule of Mimms
applies to passengers as well as to drivers.' On the public
interest side of the balance, the same weighty interest in
officer safety is present regardless of whether the occupant
of the stopped car is a driver or passenger. Regrettably,
traffic stops may be dangerous encounters. In 1994 alone,
there were 5,762 officer assaults and 11 officers killed during
traffic pursuits and stops. Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Uniform Crime Reports: Law Enforcement Officers Killed
and Assaulted 71, 33 (1994). In the case of passengers, the
danger of the officer's standing in the path of oncoming traffic would not be present except in the case of a passenger in
the left rear seat, but the fact that there is more than one
occupant of the vehicle increases the possible sources of
2
harm to the officer.

On the personal liberty side of the balance, the case for
the passengers is in one sense stronger than that for the
driver. There is probable cause to believe that the driver
has committed a minor vehicular offense, but there is no such
reason to stop or detain the passengers. But as a practical
IRespondent argues that, because we have generally eschewed brightline rules in the Fourth Amendment context, see, e. g., Ohio v. Robinette,
ante, p. 33, we should not here conclude that passengers may constitutionally be ordered out of lawfully stopped vehicles. But, that we typically
avoid per se rules concerning searches and seizures does not mean that
we have always done so; Mimms itself drew a bright line, and we believe
the2 principles that underlay that decision apply to passengers as well.
JUSTICE STEvENs' dissenting opinion points out, post, at 416, that
these statistics are not further broken down as to assaults by passengers
and assaults by drivers. It is, indeed, regrettable that the empirical data
on a subject such as this are sparse, but we need not ignore the data which
do exist simply because further refinement would be even more helpful.
JUSTICE STEVENS agrees that there is "a strong public interest in minimizing" the number of assaults on law officers, ibid., and we believe that
our holding today is more likely to accomplish that result than would be
the case if his views were to prevail.

MARYLAND v. WILSON
Opinion of the Court

matter, the passengers are already stopped by virtue of the
stop of the vehicle. The only change in their circumstances
which will result from ordering them out of the car is that
they will be outside of, rather than inside of, the stopped car.
Outside the car, the passengers will be denied access to any
possible weapon that might be concealed in the interior of
the passenger compartment. It vWould seem that the possibility of a violent encounter stems not from the ordinary reaction of a motorist stopped for a speeding violation, but
from the fact that evidence of a more serious crime might be
uncovered during the stop. And the motivation of a passenger to employ violence to prevent apprehension of such a
crime is every bit as great as that of the driver.
We think that our opinion in Michigan v. Summers, 452
U. S. 692 (1981), offers guidance by analogy here. There the
police had obtained a search warrant for contraband thought
to be located in a residence, but when they arrived to execute
the warrant they found Summers coming down the front
steps. The question in the case depended "upon a determination whether the officers had the authority to require him
to re-enter the house and to remain there while they conducted their search." Id., at 695. In holding as it did, the
Court said:
"Although no special danger to the police is suggested
by the evidence in this record, the execution of a warrant to search for narcotics is the kind of transaction
that may give rise to sudden violence or frantic efforts
to conceal or destroy evidence. The risk of harm to
both the police and the occupants is minimized if the
officers routinely exercise unquestioned command of the
situation." Id., at 702-703 (footnote omitted).
In summary, danger to an officer from a traffic stop is
likely to be greater when there are passengers in addition to
the driver in the stopped car. While there is not the same
basis for ordering the passengers out of the car as there is

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

for ordering the driver out, the additional intrusion on the
passenger is minimal. We therefore hold that an officer
making a traffic stop may order passengers to get out of the
car pending completion of the stop.'
The judgment of the Court of Special Appeals of Maryland
is reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE KENNEDY joins,
dissenting.
In Pennsylvania-v.Mimms, 434 U. S. 106 (1977) (per curiam), the Court answered the "narrow question" whether
an "incremental intrusion" on the liberty of a person who
had been lawfully seized was reasonable. Id., at 109. This
case, in contrast, raises a separate and significant question
concerning the power of the State to make an initial seizure
of persons who are not even suspected of having violated
the law.
My concern is not with the ultimate disposition of this particular case, but rather with the literally millions of other
cases that will be affected by the rule the Court announces.
Though the question is not before us, I am satisfied thatunder the rationale of Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968)-if a
police officer conducting a traffic stop has an articulable suspicion of possible danger, the officer may order passengers
to exit the vehicle as a defensive tactic without running afoul
of the Fourth Amendment. Accordingly, I assume that the
facts recited in the majority's opinion provided a valid justi3

Maryland urges us to go further and hold that an officer may forcibly
detain a passenger for the entire duration of the stop. But respondent
was subjected to no detention based on the stopping of the car once he
had left it; his arrest was based on probable cause to believe that he was
guilty of possession of cocaine with intent to distribute. The question
which Maryland wishes answered, therefore, is not presented by this case,
and we express no opinion upon it.

MARYLAND v. WILSON
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

fication for this officer's order commanding the passengers to
get out of this vehicle.' But the Court's ruling goes much

further. It applies equally to traffic stops in which there is
not even a scintilla of evidence of any potential risk to the
police officer. In those cases, I firmly believe that the
Fourth Amendment prohibits routine and arbitrary seizures
of obviously innocent citizens.
I
The majority suggests that the personal liberty interest at
stake here, which is admittedly "stronger" than that at issue
in Mimms, is outweighed by the need to ensure officer safety.
Ante, at 413, 414-415. The Court correctly observes that
"traffic stops may be dangerous encounters." Ante, at 413.
The magnitude of the danger to police officers is reflected in
the statistic that, in 1994 alone, "there were 5,762 officer assaults and 11 officers killed during traffic pursuits and
stops." Ibid. There is, unquestionably, a strong public interest in minimizing the number of such assaults and fatalities. The Court's statistics, however, provide no support for
the conclusion that its ruling will have any such effect.
Those statistics do not tell us how many of the incidents
involved passengers.

Assuming that many of the assaults

were committed by passengers, we do not know how many
occurred after the passenger got out of the vehicle, how
many took place while the passenger remained in the vehicle,
or indeed, whether any of them could have been prevented
' The Maryland Court of Special Appeals held, inter alia,that the State
had not properly preserved this claim during the suppression hearing.

See App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a. The State similarly fails to press the point
here. Pet. for Cert. 4, n. 1; Brief for Petitioner 4, n. 1. The issue is
therefore not before us, and I am not free to concur in the Court's judgment on this alternative ground. See Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U. S.
320, 327 (1985); this Court's Rule 14.1(a).

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

by an order commanding the passengers to exit.2 There is
no indication that the number of assaults was smaller in jurisdictions where officers may order passengers to exit the
vehicle without any suspicion than in jurisdictions where
they were then prohibited from doing so. Indeed, there is
no indication that any of the assaults occurred when there
was a complete absence of any articulable basis for concern
about the officer's safety-the only condition under which I
would hold that the Fourth Amendment prohibits an order
commanding passengers to exit a vehicle. In short, the statistics are as consistent with the hypothesis that ordering
passengers to get out of a vehicle increases the danger of
assault as with the hypothesis that it reduces that risk.
Furthermore, any limited additional risk to police officers
must be weighed against the unnecessary invasion that will
be imposed on innocent citizens under the majority's rule in
the tremendous number of routine stops that occur each day.
We have long recognized that "[b]ecause of the extensive
regulation of motor vehicles and traffic . . . the extent of
police-citizen contact involving automobiles will be substantially greater than police-citizen contact in a home or office."
Cady v. Dombrowski, 413 U. S. 433, 441 (1973). Most traffic
am assuming that in the typical case the officer would not order
passengers out of a vehicle until after he had stopped his own car, exited,
and arrived at a position where he could converse with the driver. The
only way to avoid all risk to the officer, I suppose, would be to adopt a
routine practice of always issuing an order through an amplified speaker
commanding everyone to get out of the stopped car before the officer exposed himself to the possibility of a shot from a hidden weapon. Given
the predicate for the Court's ruling-that an articulable basis for suspecting danger to the officer provides insufficient protection against the possibility of a surprise assault-we must assume that every passenger, no
matter how feeble or infirm, must be prepared to accept the "petty indignity" of obeying an arbitrary and sometimes demeaning command issued
over a loud speaker.
3See also New York v. Class, 475 U. S. 106, 113 (1986); South Dakota v.
Opperman,428 U. S. 364, 368 (1976); cf. Whren v. United States, 517 U. S.
806, 810, 818 (1996).
21

MARYLAND v. WILSON
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

stops involve otherwise law-abiding citizens who have committed minor traffic offenses. A strong interest in arriving
at a destination-to deliver a patient to a hospital, to witness
a kickoff, or to get to work on time-will often explain a
traffic violation without justifying it. In the aggregate,
these stops amount to significant law enforcement activity.
Indeed, the number of stops in which an officer is actually
at risk is dwarfed by the far greater number of routine stops.
If Maryland's share of the national total is about average,
the State probably experiences about 100 officer assaults
each year during traffic stops and pursuits. Making the unlikely assumption that passengers are responsible for onefourth of the total assaults, it appears that the Court's new
rule would provide a potential benefit to Maryland officers
in only roughly 25 stops a year.4 These stops represent a
minuscule portion of the total. In Maryland alone, there are
something on the order of one million traffic stops each year.5
Assuming that there are passengers in about half of the cars
stopped, the majority's rule is of some possible advantage to
police in only about one out of every twenty thousand traffic
stops in which there is a passenger in the car. And, any
benefit is extremely marginal. In the overwhelming majority of cases posing a real threat, the officer would almost
4This figure may in fact be smaller. The majority's data aggregate assaults committed during "[traffic [p]ursuits and [s]tops." Federal Bureau
of Investigation, Uniform Crime Reports: Law Enforcement Officers
Killed and Assaulted 71 (1994). In those assaults that occur during the
pursuitof a moving vehicle, it would obviously be impossible for an officer
to order a passenger out of the car.
5Maryland had well over one million nontort motor vehicle cases during
a 1-year period between 1994 and 1995. Annual Report of the Maryland
Judiciary 80 (1994-1995). Though the State does not maintain a count of
the number of stops performed each year, this figure is probably a fair
rough proxy. The bulk of these cases likely represent a traffic stop, and
this total does not include those stops in which the police officer simply
gave the driver an informal reprimand. I presume that these figures are
representative of present circumstances.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
STEVENS, J., dissenting

certainly have some ground to suspect danger that would
justify ordering passengers out of the car.
In contrast, the potential daily burden on thousands of
innocent citizens is obvious. That burden may well be
"minimal" in individual cases. Ante, at 415. But countless
citizens who cherish individual liberty and are offended,
embarrassed, and sometimes provoked by arbitrary official
commands may well consider the burden to be significant.6
In all events, the aggregation of thousands upon thousands
of petty indignities has an impact on freedom that I would
characterize as substantial, and which in my view clearly
outweighs the evanescent safety concerns pressed by the
majority.
II
The Court concludes today that the balance of convenience
and danger that supported its holding in Mimms applies to
passengers of lawfully stopped cars as well as drivers. In
Mimms itself, however, the Court emphasized the fact that
the intrusion into the driver's liberty at stake was "occasioned not by the initial stop of the vehicle, which was admittedly justified, but by the order to get out of the car." 434
U. S., at 111. The conclusion that "this additional intrusion
can only be described as de minimis" rested on the premise
that the "police have already lawfully decided that the driver
shall be briefly detained." Ibid.7
6
The number of cases in which the command actually protects the officer
from harm may well be a good deal smaller than the number in which a
passenger is harmed by exposure to inclement weather, as well as the
number in which an ill-advised command is improperly enforced. Consider, for example, the harm caused to a passenger by an inadequately
trained officer after a command was issued to exit the vehicle in Board of
Comm'rs of Bryan Cty. v. Brown, 67 F. 3d 1174 (CA5 1995), cert. granted,
5177 U. S. 1154 (1996).
Dissenting in Mimms, I criticized the Court's reasoning and, indeed,
predicted the result that the majority reaches today. 434 U. S., at
122-123.

MARYLAND v. WILSON
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

In this case as well, the intrusion on the passengers' liberty occasioned by the initial stop of the vehicle is not challenged. That intrusion was a necessary by-product of the
lawful detention of the driver. But the passengers had not
yet been seized at the time the car was pulled over, any more
than a traffic jam caused by construction or other stateimposed delay not directed at a particular individual constitutes a seizure of that person. The question is whether a
passenger in a lawfully stopped car may be seized, by an
order to get out of the vehicle, without any evidence whatsoever that he or she poses a threat to the officer or has committed an offense. 8
To order passengers about during the course of a traffic
stop, insisting that they exit and remain outside the car, can
hardly be classified as a de minimis intrusion. The traffic
violation sufficiently justifies subjecting the driver to detention and some police control for the time necessary to conclude the business of the stop. The restraint on the liberty
of blameless passengers that the majority permits is, in contrast, entirely arbitrary.9
In my view, wholly innocent passengers in a taxi, bus, or
private car have a constitutionally protected right to decide
whether to remain comfortably seated within the vehicle
rather than exposing themselves to the elements and the observation of curious bystanders. The Constitution should
not be read to permit law enforcement officers to order innocent passengers about simply because they have the misfor8The order to the passenger is unquestionably a "seizure" within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment. As we held in United States v.
Brignoni-Ponce,422 U.S. 873, 878 (1975): "The Fourth Amendment ap-

plies to all seizures of the person, including seizures that involve only a
brief detention short of traditional arrest. Davis v. Mississippi,394 U. S.
721 (1969); Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S.1, 16-19 (1968)."
9Cf. Ybarra v. Illinois,444 U. S.85, 91 (1979) ("'[A] person's mere propinquity to others independently suspected of criminal activity does not,
without more, give rise to probable cause to search that person!" (citing
Sibron v. New York, 392 U. S.40, 62-63 (1968))).

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

tune to be seated in a car whose driver has committed a
minor traffic offense.
Unfortunately, the effect of the Court's new rule on the
law may turn out to be far more significant than its immediate impact on individual liberty. Throughout most of our
history the Fourth Amendment embodied a general rule requiring that official searches and seizures be authorized by a
warrant, issued "upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized." 10 During
the prohibition era, the exceptions for warrantless searches
supported by probable cause started to replace the general
rule." In 1968, in the landmark "stop and frisk" case Terry
v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968), the Court placed its stamp of approval on seizures supported by specific and articulable facts
that did not establish probable cause. The Court crafted
Terry as a narrow exception to the general rule that "the
police must, whenever practicable, obtain advance judicial
approval of searches and seizures through the warrant procedure." Id., at 20. The intended scope of the Court's major
departure from prior practice was reflected in its statement
that the "demand for specificity in the information upon
which police action is predicated is the central teaching of
this Court's Fourth Amendment jurisprudence." Id., at 21,
n. 18; see also id., at -27. In the 1970's, the Court twice rejected attempts to justify suspicionless seizures that caused
only "modest" intrusions on the liberty of passengers in automobiles. United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U. S. 873,
879-880 (1975); Delaware v. Prouse, 440 U. S. 648, 662-663
10See,

e. g., Amos v. United States, 255 U. 8. 313, 315 (1921); Weeks v.
United States, 232 U. S. 383, 393 (1914).
1
See, e. g., Carrollv. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 149 (1925) (automobile
search). We had also recognized earlier in dictum the now wellestablished doctrine permitting warrantless searches incident to a valid
arrest. See Weeks, 232 U. S., at 392; see also J. Landynski, Search and
Seizure and the Supreme Court 87 (1966).

MARYLAND v. WILSON
KENNEDY,

J., dissenting

(1979).12 Today, however, the Court takes the unprecedented step of authorizing seizures that are unsupported by
any individualized suspicion whatsoever.
The Court's conclusion seems to rest on the assumption
that the constitutional protection against "unreasonable' seizures requires nothing more than a hypothetically rational
basis for intrusions on individual liberty. How far this
ground-breaking decision will take us, I do not venture to
predict. I fear, however, that it may pose a more serious
threat to individual liberty than the Court realizes.
I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY, dissenting.

I join in the dissent by JUSTICE STEVENS and add these
few observations.
The distinguishing feature of our criminal justice system
is its insistence on principled, accountable decisionmaking in
individual cases. If a person is to be seized, a satisfactory
explanation for the invasive action ought to be established
by an officer who exercises reasoned judgment under all the
circumstances of the case. This principle can be accommodated even where officers must make immediate decisions to
ensure their own safety.
Traffic stops, even for minor violations, can take upwards
of 30 minutes. When an officer commands passengers innocent of any violation to leave the vehicle and stand by the
side of the road in full view of the public, the seizure is serious, not trivial. As JUSTICE STEVENS concludes, the command to exit ought not to be given unless there are objective
circumstances making it reasonable for the officer to issue
the order. (We do not have before us the separate question
whether passengers, who, after all, are in the car by choice,
12Dissenting in Delawarev. Prouse, 440 U. S. 648 (1979), then-JUSTICE

REHNQUIST characterized the motorist's interest in freedom from random
stops as "only the most diaphanous of citizen interests." Id., at 666.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)
KENNEDY, J.,

dissenting

can be ordered to remain there for a reasonable time while
the police conduct their business.)
The requisite showing for commanding passengers to exit
need be no more than the existence of any circumstance justifying the order in the interests of the officer's safety or
to facilitate a lawful search or investigation. As we have
acknowledged for decades, special latitude is given to the
police in effecting searches and seizures involving vehicles
and their occupants. See, e. g., Chambers v. Maroney, 399
U. S. 42 (1970); New York v. Class, 475 U. S. 106 (1986); New
York v. Belton, 453 U. S. 454 (1981). Just last Term we adhered to a rule permitting vehicle stops if there is some objective indication thit a violation has been committed, regardless of the officer's real motives. See Whren v. United
States, 517 U. S. 806 (1996). We could discern no other,
workable rule. Even so, we insisted on a reasoned explanation for the stop.
The practical effect of our holding in Whren, of course,
is to allow the police to stop vehicles in almost countless
circumstances. When Whren is coupled with today's holding, the Court puts tens of millions of passengers at risk of
arbitrary control by the police. If the command to exit were
to become commonplace, the Constitution would be diminished in a most public way. As the standards suggested in
dissent are adequate to protect the safety of the police, we
ought not to suffer so great a loss.
Since a myriad of circumstances will give a cautious officer
reasonable grounds for commanding passengers to leave the
vehicle, it might be thought the rule the Court adopts today
will be little different in its operation than the rule offered
in dissent. It does no disservice to police officers, however,
to insist upon exercise of reasoned judgment. Adherence to
neutral principles is the very premise of the rule of law the
police themselves defend with such courage and dedication.
Most officers, it might be said, will exercise their new.
power with discretion and restraint; and no doubt this often

424

MARYLAND v. WILSON
KENNEDY,

J., dissenting

will be the case. It might also be said that if some jurisdictions use today's ruling to require passengers to exit as a
matter of routine in every stop, citizen complaints and political intervention will call for an end to the practice. These
arguments, however, would miss the point. Liberty comes
not from officials by grace but from the Constitution by right.
For these reasons, and with all respect for the opinion of
the Court, I dissent.

