OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Syllabus

CALIFORNIA ET AL. v. ROY
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-2025.

Decided November 4, 1996

A California court convicted respondent Roy of robbery and first-degree
murder. The State contended that Roy, coming to the aid of a confederate who was committing the robbery, helped with the murder. The jury
was instructed that it could convict if, inter alia, Roy, with knowledge
of the confederate's unlawful purpose, had helped the confederate. The
State Supreme Court later held an identical instruction erroneous because it did not require the jury to find that a defendant had the knowledge and intent or purpose of comnmitting, encouraging, or facilitating
the confederate's crime. Despite this error, the State Court of Appeal
affirmed Roy's conviction, finding that the error was "harmless beyond a
reasonable doubt." See Chapman v. California,386 U. S. 18, 24. The
Federal District Court considering Roy's habeas claim also found the
error harmless, reasoning that no rational juror could have found that
Roy knew the confederate's purpose and helped him but also did not
intend to help him. In reversing, the en bane Ninth Circuit applied a
special harmless-error standard, which it believed combined aspects of
the decisions in Carella v. California,491 U. S. 263 (per curiam), and
O'Neal v. McAninch, 513 U.S. 432, and held that the omission of the
instruction's intent part is harmless only if a review of the assistance
and knowledge facts found by the jury establish that the jury necessarily found the omitted intent element.
Held. As a federal court reviewing a state-court determination in a habeas corpus proceeding, the Ninth Circuit should have applied the
harmless-error standard first enunciated in Kotteakos v. United States,
328 U. S. 750, namely, whether the error had substantial and injurious
effect or influence in determining the jury's verdict. The Ninth Circuit
drew its standard from a discussion in Carella's concurring opinion
about the proper-way to determine whether an error in respect to the
use of a legal presumption was harmless. Subsequent to Carella,however, this Court held in Brecht v. Abramson, 507 U. S. 619, and O'Neal,
supra, that a federal c6urt reviewing a habeas proceeding ordinarily
should apply the Kotteakos standard. That standard applies to habeas
review of trial errors, including errors in respect to which the Constitution requires state courts to apply a stricter, Chapman-type harmlesserror standard when reviewing a conviction directly. The sort of error

Cite as: 519 U. S. 2 (1996)
Per Curiam
at issue in Carella is a trial error subject to harmless-error analysis.
The error at issue here-a nsdescription of an element of the crimeis an error of omission, not an error of the structural sort that defies
harmless-error analysis.
Certiorari granted; 81 F. 3d 863, vacated and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

A California court convicted respondent Kenneth Roy of
the robbery and first-degree murder of Archie Mannix. The
State's theory, insofar as is relevant here, was that Roy, coming to the aid of a confederate who was trying to rob Mannix,
helped the confederate kill Mannix. The trial judge gave
the jury an instruction that permitted it to convict Roy of
first-degree murder as long as it concluded that (among other
things) Roy, "with knowledge of" the confederate's "unlawful
purpose" (robbery), had helped the confederate, i. e., had
"aid[ed]," "promote[d]," "encourage[d]," or "instigate[d]" by
"act or advice ... the commission of" the confederate's crime.
The California Supreme Court later held in People v. Beeman, 35 Cal. 3d 547, 561, 674 P. 2d 1318, 1326 (1984), that an
identical instruction was erroneous because of what it did
not say, namely, that state law also required the jury to find
that Roy had the "knowledge [and] intent or purpose of committing, encouraging, or facilitating" the confederate's crime.
Id., at 561, 674 P. 2d, at 1326 (emphasis added). Despite this
error, the California Court of Appeal affirmed Roy's conviction because it found the error "harmless beyond a reasonable doubt." See Chapman v. California,386 U. S. 18,
24 (1967). The California Supreme Court denied postconviction relief.
Subsequently Roy, pointing to the same instructional
error, asked a Federal District Court to issue a writ of
habeas corpus. The District Court denied the request
because, in its view, the error was harmless. Indeed, the
District Court wrote that no rational juror could have found
that Roy knew the confederate's purpose and helped him but
also found that Roy did not intend to help him. A divided

CALIFORNIA v. ROY

Per Curiam

Ninth Circuit panel affirmed. Roy v. Gomez, 55 F. 3d 1483
(1995).
The Ninth Circuit later heard the case en banc and reversed the District Court. It held that the instructional
error was not harmless. 81 F. 3d 863 (1996). In doing so,
the majority applied a special "harmless error" standard,
which it believed combined aspects of our decisions in Carella v. California, 491 U. S. 263 (1989) (per curiam), and
O'Neal v. McAninch, 513 U. S. 432 (1995). The Ninth Circuit described the standard as follows:
"[T]he omission is harmless only if review of the facts
found by the jury establishes that the jury necessarily
found the omitted element." 81 F. 3d, at 867 (emphasis
in original).
As we understand that statement in context, it meant:
"[T]he omission [of the 'intent' part of the instruction]
is harmless only if review of the facts found by the jury
[namely, assistance and knowledge] establishes that the
jury necessarilyfound the omitted element [namely, 'intent']." Ibid.
The State of California, seeking certiorari, argues that this
definition of "harmless error" is far too strict and that this
Court's decisions require application of a significantly less
strict "harmless error" standard in cases on collateral
review. See Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619 (1993);
O'Neal, supra.
We believe that the State, and the dissenting judges in the
Ninth Circuit, are correct about the proper standard. The
Ninth Circuit majority drew its special standard primarily
from a concurring opinion in Carella,supra, a case that dealt
with legal presumptions. The concurrence in that case set
out the views of several Justices about the proper way to
determine whether an error in respect to the use of a presumption was "harmless." Subsequent to Carella,however,
this Court held that a federal court reviewing a state-court

Cite as: 519 U. S. 2 (1996)
Per Curiam

determination in a habeas corpus proceeding ordinarily
should apply the "harmless error" standard that the Court
had previously enunciated in Kotteakos v. United States, 328"
U. S. 750 (1946), namely, "whether the error 'had substantial
and injurious effect or influence in determining the jury's
verdict."' Brecht, supra, at 637 (citing Kofteakos, supra, at
776). The Court recognized that the Kotteakos standard did
not apply to "'structural defects in the constitution of the
trial mechanism, which defy analysis by "harmless-error"
standards,"' 507 U. S., at 629, but held that the Kotteakos
standard did apply to habeas review of what the Court called
"trial errors," including errors in respect to which the Constitution requires state courts to apply a stricter, Chapmantype standard of "harmless error" when they review a conviction directly. 507 U. S., at 638. In O'Neal, supra, this
Court added that where a juidge, in a habeas proceeding,
applying this standard of harmless error, "is in grave doubt
as to the harmlessness of an error," the habeas "petitioner
must win." Id., at 437.
The case before us is a case for application of the "harmless error" standard as enunciated in Brecht and O'Neal.
This Court has written that "constitutional error" of the sort
at issue in Carellais a "trial error," not a "structural error,"
and that it is subject to "harmless error" analysis. Arizona
v. Fulminante, 499 U. S. 279, 306-307 (1991). The state
courts in this case applied harmless-error analysis of the
strict variety, and they found the error "harmless beyond
a reasonable doubt." Chapman, supra, at 24. The specific
error at issue here-an error in the instruction that defined
the crime-is, as the Ninth Circuit itself recognized, as easily
characterized as a "misdescription of an element" of the
crime, as it is characterized as an error of "omission." 81
F. 3d, at 867, n. 4. No one claims that the error at issue
here is of the "structural" sort that "'def[ies] analysis by
"harmless error" standards."' Brecht, supra, at 629. The
analysis advanced by the Ninth Circuit, while certainly con-

CALIFORNIA v. ROY
SCALIA, J., concurring

sistent with the concurring opinion in Carella,does not, in
our view, overcome the holding of Brecht,followed in O'Neal,
that for reasons related to the special function of habeas
courts, those courts must review such error (error that may
require strict review of the Chapman-type on direct appeal)
under the Kotteakos standard. Thus, we are convinced that
the "harmless error" standards enunciated in Brecht and
O'Neal should apply to the "trial error" before us as enunciated in those opinions and without the Ninth Circuit's
modification.
For these reasons, we grant respondent's motion for leave
to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for a writ
of. certiorari, vacate the Ninth Circuit's determination, and
remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE SCALIA,

with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins as

to Part I, concurring.

I

I agree with what the Court decides in its per curiam
opinion: that the Brecht-O'Neal standard for reversal of the
conviction ("grave doubt as to the harmlessness of the
error"), see Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619 (1993), and
O'Neal v. McAninch, 513 U. S. 432 (1995), rather than the
more stringent Chapman standard (inability to find the
error "harmless beyond a reasonable doubt"), see Chapman
v. California,386 U. S. 18 (1967), applies to the error in this
case when it is presented, not on direct appeal, but as
grounds for habeas corpus relief. The Ninth Circuit did not
apply that more deferential standard, and I therefore concur
in the remand.
I do not understand the opinion, however, to address the
question of what constitutes the harmlessness to which this
more deferential standard is applied-and on that point the
Ninth Circuit was quite correct. As we held in Sullivan

Cite as: 519 U. S. 2 (1996)
SCAUIA, J., concurring

v. Louisiana, 508 U. S. 275 (1993), a criminal defendant is
constitutionally entitled to a jury verdict that he is guilty of
the crime, and absent such a verdict the conviction must be
reversed, "no matter how inescapable the findings to support
that verdict might be." Id., at 279. A jury verdict that he
is guilty of the crime means, of course, a verdict that he
is guilty of each necessary' element of the crime. United
States v. Gaudin, 515 U. S. 506, 522-523 (1995). Formally,
at least, such a verdict did not exist here: The jury was never
asked to determine that Roy had the "intent or purpose of
committing, encouraging, or facilitating" his confederate's
crime. People v. Beeman, 35 Cal. 3d 547, 561, 674 P. 2d 1318,
1326 (1984).
, The absence, of a formal verdict on this point cannot be
rendered harmless by the fact that, given the evidence, no
reasonable jury would have found otherwise. To allow the
error to be cured in that fashion would be to dispense with
trial by jury. "The Sixth Amendment requires more than
appellate speculation about a hypothetical jury's action, or
else directed verdicts for the State would be sustainable on
appeal; it requires an actual jury finding of guilty." Sullivan, supra, at 280. The error in the present case can be
harmless only if the jury verdict on other points effectively
embraces this one or if it is impossible, upon the evidence, to
have found what the verdict did find without finding this
point as well. See Carellav. California,491 U. S. 263, 271
(1989) (SCALIA, J., concurring).

I concur in the remand so

that the Ninth Circuit may determine whether there is
"grave doubt" that this is so, rather than (what it did) determine whether it is impossible to "be certain" that this is so,
81 F. 3d 863, 867 (1996). Elsewhere in its opinion, the Ninth
Circuit purported to be applying the O'Neal standard, stating that "[w]hen the reviewing court is unable to conclude
the jury necessarily found an element that was omitted from
the instructions," it "can only be 'in grave doubt as to the
harmlessness of the error,"' 81 F. 3d, at 868 (quoting O'Neal

CALIFORNIA v. ROY
SCALiA, J.,

concurring

v. McAninch, supra, at 437). That seems to me to impart
to the determination a black-and-white character which it
does not possess, any more than other determinations possess it. It can be "the better view," but far from "certain,"
that, given the facts in the record, no juror could find x without also finding y. What O'Neal means is that, when the
point is arguable, the State's determination of harmless error
must be sustained.
II
One final point: I write as I have written only because the
Court has rejected the traditional view of habeas corpus
relief as discretionary. See Withrow v. Williams, 507 U. S.
680, 720 (1993) (SCALIA, J., concurring in part and dissenting

in part). But for that precedent, I would be content to grant
federal habeas relief for this sort of state-court error only
when there has been no opportunity to litigate it before, or
when there is substantial doubt, on the facts, whether the
defendant was guilty. See ibid.

