SUPREME COURT U. S.

CPOUDSOX

CROUDSON AND OTHERS v. LEONARD.

V.
LflONARD.-

ERROR to the circuit couit of the district of CoThe sentence
of a foreign lumbia ; in an action on. a policy of insurance on the
court ofadtri- cargo of the brig Fame, on a voyage from Alexandria,
r av ee to, at; and from Barbadoes and four other pbrts in the
for breac' of West-lndies, and back to Alexandria, the vessel lnd
bloade,
is cargo warranted American property, 'The vessel'aronclusive
eot- rived at Barbadoes, and sailed from thence for Antidence
of that
fact in an ac- gua, but on her voyage to that island was captured by a
tion

on the

British vessel, and cat'ried into Barbadoes, and there

policy of ii.- condemned in the vice-admiralty court, for attempting

uwance.

to break the blockade of Martinique.

The jury found a special verdict, upon whiqh the
judgment below was in favouf of the plaintiffs..
The only question drising upon this s~ecial verdict
was, whether the sentence of the court of vice-admiraltv was conclusive evidence of an aftemnpt to violate
the blockade of Martinique.
This question having been several times arg'ued, (but
not decided,) in the case of Fitzsmnzoni v. The Nezvport Insurance Company, at this term, (ante,' p. 15.)
the counsel submitted it to the court without further ar
gument.
fl'ar0h 15.

J'otNsoN, J.

The action below was instituted on' 4

policy of insurance.

On behalf of the insurers, it was contended that the
policy was forfeited by committing a breach of blockade. It is not, prnd cannot be made a question, -thac
this is bne of those acts which will exonerate the underwriters from their liability. The only point below was
relative to the evidence upon which the comimission of

FEBRUARY, 1808.

the act may be substantiated.

A sentence of a British

prize couit in Barbadoes was given in evidence, by

which it appeared that the vessel was condemned for
attempting to commit a breach of blockade. It is the
English doctrine, and the correct doctrine on the law
of nations, that an attempt to commit a breach of blockade is a violation of belligerent rights, and authorises
capture. This doctrine is not denied, but the plaintiff
contends that he did not commit such an attempt, and
the court below permitted bvidence -to go tp the jury to
disprove the fact on which the condemnation professes
to proceed.
On this point, I am of opinion that the court below
erred.
I do not think it necessary to go through the mass of
learning on this subject, which has so often been brought
to the notice of this court, and particularly in the case
of Fitzsimmons, argued at this term. Nearly the whole
of it will be found very well summed up in the 18th,
rhapter of Mr. P-ark's Treatise. The doctrine appears
to me to rest upon three very obvious considerations :
the propriety of leaving the cognizance of prize questions exclusively to courts of prize jurisdiction-the
very great inconvenience amounting nearly to an impossibility of fully investigating such cases in a court of
-common law--and the impropriety of revising the decisions of the miritime courts of other nations, whose
jurisdiction is co-ordinate throughout the world;
It is sometimes contended that this doctrine is novel,
and that it takes its origin in an incorrect extension of
the principle in Hughes v. Cornelius. I am induced to
believe-that it is coeval with the species df contract to
which it is applied. Policies of insurance are known
to have been brought into England from a country that
acknowledged the civil law. This must have been the
law of policies at the time when they were considered
as cdtracts proper for the admiralty jurisdiction, and
were submitted to the court of policies established in.
the reign of Elizabeth. It is probable that, at the
time wNven the common law assumed to itself exclusive
jurisdiction of the contract of insurance, the rule was

cnotno.
L^,,.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CROUDOSON
LEo"V.

too much blended with the law of poliies to have been
dispensed with, had it even been inconsistent with common law principles. But, in fact, the common law had
sufficient precedent for this rule, in its own receiVed
priiciples relative to sentences of the civil law courts of
England. It may be true that there are no cases upon
this subject prior to that of flughes'v. Cornelius, but
this does not disprove.the existence of the doctrine.
There can be little necessity for ,reporting decisions
upon questions that cannot be controverted.. Since the
case of Hughes v. C6ornefius, the doctrine has frequently been brought to the notice of the courts of Great
Britain, in insurance cases, but always with a view to
contest its applicability to particular cases, or to restrict
the gene rardoctrine by exceptions, but'the existence of
the rulc, er its 'applicability to actions on policies, is no
where controverted.
I am of opinion that the sentence of condemnation
was conclusive-evidence of the commission of the offence for which the. vessel was condemned, and as that
offence was one which vitiated the policy, the defendants
ought to have had Averdict.
WASHINGTON, J. The single question in this case
is, whether the sentence of the admiralty court at Barbadoes, condemning the brig Fame and her cargo as
prize, for an attempt to break the blockade of Martinique, is conclusive evidencd against the insured, to
falsify his warranty of neutrality, notwithstanding the
fact stated in the sentence as the ground of conderdnation is negativd'by the jury?

This question has long been at. rest in England. The,
established law upon this subject in the courts of that
country is, that the sentence cl a foreign court of coinpetent jurisdiction condemnit.g the property upon the
.ground that it was not neutral, is so entirely conclusive
of the fact so decided, that it can never be controverted,
directly or collaterally, in any other court having concurrent jurisdiction.
This doctrine seems'to result from the application. of'
a legai principle which prevails in respect to 4omestic

FEBRUARY, isb0.

437

,judgments, to thejudgments and sentences of foreign
courts.
It is a well established rule in England, that the j,!dgment, sentence, or decree of a court of exclusive jurisdiction directly upon the point, may be given in evidence
as concluive between the same parties, upon the same
matter coming incidentally in question in another court
for a different puipose. It is not only conclusive of the
right which it ctablishes, but of the fact which it directly decides.
This rule, when applied to the sentences of courts of
admiralty, whether foreign or domestic, produces the
doctrine which I am now considering, upon the ground
that all the world are parties in an admiralty ciuse. The
proceedings are in rem, but any person having an interest in the property may interpose a claim, or may
prosecute an appeal from the sentence. The insured is
emphatically a party, and in every instance has an opportunity to controvert the alleged grounds of condemnation, by proving, if he can, the neutrality of the
property. The master is his immediate agent, and he
is also bound to act for the benefit of all concerned, so
that, in this respect, he also represents the insurer.
That irregularities have sometimes taken place, to the
exclusion of a fair hearing of the parties, is not to bc
denied. But this furnishes no good reason against the
adoption of a general rule. A spirit of comity has induced the courts of England to presume that foreign
tribunals, whether of prize or municipal jurisdiction,
will act fairly, and will decide according to the laws
which-ought to govern them ; and public convenience
seems to require that a question, which has once been
fairly d~cided, should not be again litigated between the
same parties, unlezs in a court of appellate jurisdicion,
The irregular and unjust decisions of the French
courts of admiralty of late years, have induced even
English judges to doubt of the wisdom of the above
doctrine in relation to foreign sentences, but which they
have acknowledged to be too well established for English
tribumafs to shake ; and the jtustice with which the same

CnoDso:;
V.

SUPREME- COURT U. S.

'char'ge is made by all neutral nations against the.English
"as well as against the French courts of admiralty,, Ju, ring the same period, has led man), American jurists to:
question the validity of the doctrine in the courts 8f
our own country. It is said to be a novel doctrine)
lately sprung up, and acted upon as a rule of decision
in -the English courts, since the period when English
decisions have loit the weight of authority in the courts
of the United States. It is this position which I shall
"now examine; acknowledging that I do not hold myself
bound by Guch decisions made since the revolution, although;, as evidence of what the law was prior to that
period, I read and respect them.

CR6unsO-

7

The authority of the case of iu hes v. Cornelius, the
earliest we meet with as to the conclusiveness of a fod
reign sentence, is adnitted ; but its application to a
question arising under a warranty of neutrality betwcen
the insurer and ipsured, is denied. It is true that, in
that caie, the only point expressly decided was, that the
s~ntence was conclusive as to the change of property
effected by th .condemnation. But it is obvious that
the point decided in that case depended, .not upon some
newlpinclple peculiar to the sentences of foreign courts,
but upon the application of a general rule of law to such
sentences.
Thig case, as far as it goes, places a foreign sentence
upon the same foundation as the sentence or decree of
an English court acting upon the same subject ; and we
have seen that,- by the general rule of law, the la'ter, if
conclusive at all, is so as to thefact directly decided, as
well" as to the' change of property produced by the
establishment of the fact. Hence it would seem to follow, that if. the sentence of a foreign'court of, admiralty
be conclusive as.to th property, it is equally conclusive
of the, matter. or fact directly decided. What is the
thatter decided in the case under consideration ?-Thnt
tle vessel was. seized whilst attempting to break a blockade; in consequence'of Nvhich she lost her neutral character.; and the change of property pr6duped by the
sentence of condemnation is a consequence of the mattei decided, that she was, in effects; enemy-property...
Cai te parties to that sentence be bound by so much of

FEBRUARY, "18o8,

439

it as works a loss of'the property, becauseit was dedared to be enemy-property, and yet be left free to
litigateanew in some other form, the very point decided
from which this consequence flowed? Or upon what
just principle, let me ask, shall a party to a suit, who
has once been heard, and whose rights have been decided by a competent tribuhal, be" perniitted in another
court of concurrent jurisdiction, and, in a different form
of 'action, to litigate the same question, and to take
another chance for obtaining a difterent fesult ? 1 confess I am strongly inclined to think that the case of
Rug-he4 v. Cornelius-laid.a strong foundation for the
doctrine which was built upon it; und which for.many
years past has been established law in Englaad. This
opinion iEgiven with the more 'confidence, when I find
it sanctioned by the positive declarations of distinguished law charactrs-men who are, of all others, tht best
able to testify respecting the course of decisions upon
the doctrine I am examining, and the source froth which
it sprung.

In the case of 'Lothian v. Henderson, 3 Bos. & Pull.
499. Chainbre, J. speaking upon this point, says that
the sentence of the French court was in that case conclusive against the claim of the assured, -1agreeable to
all the decisions upon the subject, beginning" with 'the
case of Hughes v. Cornelius, (confirmed as that was by
the opinion of Lord Holt in two subsequent cases,);and
pursuing .theih down to the present peiiod. It is true,"
he observes;, " that in Hughes v. Cornelius,the question
upon the foreign sentence arose in an action of trover,
and not in an'action on a policy of assurmnce, where tht
non-complian'ee with a. warranty pf nebtrality is in dispute. But from that period to the present, the doctrine
there laid down respecting foreign. sentences has been
considered equally applicable, to questions of warranty
in actions on policies, as-to questions of property in actions of trover." Le Blanc, J. says, " that these sentences are admissible and conclusiv4 evidence of ihe
fact they decide, it seems not safe now to qutwstion.
From 'the time of Car. II. to this day, the), have been
received as such, without being questioned. In the
discussion of the nature bf such evidence before this
Vol. IV.

S K

CAouD5Oz,

440
CRouDsox

V

J.EONAM).

SUPREME COURT U. S.

house in 1776, it seems not to have been controverted

and the cases, I may say', are numberless, and the proSperty immense which have been determined on the conclusiveness of such evidence, in~many 8f which cases,
the forms in which they came before.the courts in Westminster-Hall were such as to have enabled the.parties,
if any doubt had been entertained, to have brought the
question before a higher tribunal." Lawrence, j. also
speaking of the legal effect of a foreign sentence upon
this point, says, " as to which, after the continued
practice which has taken place from the earliestperiod,
in which, in actions on policies of insurance, questions
haive arisen on warranties, to admit such sentences in
evidence, not only as conclusive in ren, but also as concusive of the several matters they purport to decide
directly, - apprehend it is now too late to examine the
practite of admitting them to the extent to which theyhave been received, supposing that practice imight, upon
the argument, have appeared to have been doubtful at
first." Rooe, J. Lord Elon, and Lord 4lvanley, all
concur in giving the same testimony, that the doctrine
under consideration had been established for a long period of years, by a long series of adjudications in the
courts of Westminster-Hall.
•1 cite this case for no other purpose but to prove by
the most respectable testimony, that the case of Hughes
v. Cornelius, decided in the reign of Car. 11. had, by
a uniform course of decisions from that time, been considered as warranting the rule now so firmly established
in England. And when the inquiry is, whether th6 ap.
plication of the principle laiddown in that case to questions arising on warranties in actions on policies, be of
ancient or modern date, I think I may safely rely upon
the declarations of the English judges, when they concur in the evidefncd they give respecting the fact. It is
true that no case was cited at the bar recognizing the
application of the rule to questions between the insurer
and insured, prior to the revolution, except that of
Fernandez v. Da Costa, which I admit was a Nisi Prius
decision. But were I convinced that the long series of
decisions upon this point, from the time of Hughes v.
Cornelius, spoken of by the judges in the ease of Lothian v. Henderson, had been made at .isi Prius, it

FEBRUARy, 180.

441

would not, in my mind, weAken the,authority of the
'doctrine.
It would prove the sense of all the judges
of England, as wq4l as of the bar, of the correctness
and lekal validity of the rule. It is not to he supposed
that if a doubt had existedrespecting the law of those
decisions, the point would not have been reserved for a
more deliberate examination, before some of the courts
of Westminster-,Hall. But the case of Fernandez v.
Da Costa receives additional weight, when it is iecolJected that the judge who decided it was Lord Afansfield,
and when upon examining it, we find no intimation from
him that there was- any novelty at that day in the doctrine. To this strong evidence of the antiquity of the
rule, may be added that of Judge Butler, who, at the
time he wrote his .Nisi Prius, considered it as thenestablished.
That the doctrine was considered ns perfectly fixed
in the year 1781, is plainly to be inferred, from the
case of Bernardi v. ilotteux, decided in that. year.
Lord Mansfield speaks of it as he would of any other
well established principle of law, declaring in .general
terms, that the-sentence, as to that which is within it, is
conclusive against all pers 6 ns, and cannot be collaterally
controverted in any'other suit. The only difficulty in
•that case was, to discover the real ground upon which
the foreign sentence proceeded, and the court iff that
and many subsequent cases laid dowh certain principles
auxiliary to the rule, for the purpose of ascertaining
the real import of the sentence in relation to the fact
decided as between the insurer and insured. For if
the sentence did not proceed upon the ground of' the
property not being ne4tral, it of course concluded nothing against the insured ; since upon no other ground
ould the seitence be said to falsify the warranty.
It Was admitted by the counsil for the insured,, that,
as between him and. the insurer; the sentence is prima
facie eviderice of a non-compliance with the warranty.
But if they are right in their arguments as tO the inconclusiveness of the sentene, I would ask for the authority upon which the sentence can be considered as
prima fade evidence. . Certainly no case was referred

Cnounso::

SUPREME COURT ,U. S.
CiotvsoT

V.

LO

to,. anciI have' not met with one to warrantthe position.

If we look to general principles applicable to domestic
judgment, they are opposed to it. We have seen that
the judgment is conclusive between the same parties,
upou the same matter coming incidentally in.question.
The judgment of a foreign court is equally conclusive,
except in the single instance where the party 'claiming
the benefit of it applies to the courts in England to enforce it, -in which case only the judgment is prima facie
evidence. But it is to be remarked, that in such a case,
the judgment is no .more conclusiye as to the right .it
establishes, than as to the fact it decides. Now it is
admitted that the sentqnce of a foreign court of admiralty is conclusive upon the right to the property in
question ; upon what-principle, then, can it be prima
Jihcie evidence, if not conclusive, upon the facts directly
decided. A domestic judgment is not evenfirimafacie
evidence between those not. parties to it, or those claiming under them, and that would clearly be the rule, and
for a similar reason as to foreign judgments. If between the same parties, the former is conclusive as to
the right and as to the facts decided. This principle, if
applied at all to foreign sentences, which it certainly
is, i-s either applicable throughout, upon the ground that
the parties are the same, or if not so, then by analogy'
to the rule applying to domestic judgments, the sentence
cannot be evidence at all.
Upon the whole, I am clearly of opinion, that the
sentence of the, court of admiralty at Barbadoes, condemning the brig Fame and her cargo as prize, on account of an attempt to break the blockade of M~irtipique, is conclusive evidence in this case against the
insured, to falsify his warranty of neutrality,
If the injustice of the belligerent powers, and of
their courts, should render this rule oppressive to the
citizens of neutral nations, I can only say with the
judges who decided the case of Hughes v. Cornelius,
let the government in its wisdom adopt the proper
means to remedy the mischief. I hold the rules of law,
when once firtply established, to be beyond the controul

FEBRUARY, 1808.

443

of those who are merely to pronounce what the law is, Caoupsol
and if from axrv circumstance it has become impolitic, Lso.AnD.
in a national point of view, it is for the nation to annul
or to modify it. Till this is done, by the competent authority, I consider the rule to be inflexible.*

THE UNITED STATES v. THE SCHOONER TurUNuTED

BETSEY AND CHARLO TI'E, AND
HER CARGO.

V
Sv.irs
BrTscv, &a

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the circuit All seizures
court of the district of Columbia, reversing that of the impd
ai*
district court, which condemned the schooner Betsey gationortradle
and Charlotte, and her cargo, as forfeited, for a viola- of the United
tion of the act of congress of the 28th of February, States, wbere
the seizurds
1806, entitled, " An act to suspend the commercial inSare made on
tercourse between the United States and certain parts -waters naviof the island of St. Domingo." Laws U. . vol. 8. gablefromthe
. 1I.
sea by vessels
of ten or more
tons burthen,
The libel being filed, and the monition. returned ex- are civil cau.
ecuted, the claimant appeared, and having givenfide- ralty
3ca of
maandadml-

jussory caution, to respond the costs, offered a plea ritime juris.
admitting all the facts charged in'tli libel, expepting dlicti6n. anl
the voluntary carrying of the vessel into the port of are to be tried
Cape Franfois, the prohibited 'port mentioned in the 'ith"ut ajury.

libdewhich he denied; and" thereofput himself on the' ther te hncountry." But ti district judge rejected the plea, and svwer of the
ordered the claimant to answer. on oath: whereupon claimant to
the claimant offered the same denial on oath, by wa) of the
libel,
t
answer ; to the receiving of which the attorneyfor the
United States objected, unless the claimant would make
-ath to answer truly all interrogatories which might be

ought not-al
ways to be
upon oath if
required; and
whether heis
nnt bound to
submit to anJudges Chase and Livingrton dissented ; and Judge Todd, not swer .interrhaving been present at the argument, gave no opinion. So tfhat gatores upon
this judgment is reversed by the opinions of .Mrarshall,Ch. J. .-ds- oath, riva-e
irf, TWlashingto., and .7ohron,Justice-;.
in open ceouit.

