FEBRUARY, 1808.
V.

SIHEARMAN v. IRVINE'S LESSEE.

. ERROR to the circuit' court for the district of limitations
The act of
of
Geoia does
Georgia, in an action of ejectment, brought (on the
15th of October, 1804,) by Jrvin,'s lessee against Shear- uiot require an
man, for a tract of land in Camden county, in the state entry into
lands within
of Georgia.
7theyears
ac.
title after
The defendant below took a bill of exceptions to the crued, unless
there besome
refusal of the court, to non suit the plaintiff on the trial, Iadversary
because he had not proved "an entry within seven posssion or
years after the title of the grantees accrued, or any en- title to he detry by either of the heirs or persons claiming under the feated by such
grantees. within seven years after their titles respectively entr-

accrued."

The lessor ofthe plaintiff had produced in evidence
two grants from the province of Georgia, in 1766, to
Alexander Baillie, under whom he claimed title by descent, and whose heir at law he had proved himself to
be.

There.was no evidence of title, or even of adverse
possession on the part of the defendant, before the
bringing of the suit, other than the averment of ouster,
in the declaration, which was laid on the 10th of Sep.tember, 1804 ; nor any evidence of tide out of the lesso'r
-ofthe plaintiff.
In support of his motion for a nonsuit, the defendant
.relied on the act of limitations of Georgia, passed in ihe
year 1767, by which itis enacted " That all writs of
formedon in descender, remainder, and reverter of any
lands, &c.. or any other writ, suit or action, whatsoever
hereafter to be sued or brought by occasion, or means
of any title heretofore accrued, happened, or fallen, or
which may hereafter descend, happen, or fall, shall be
sued or taken within seven years next after the passing
-of this act, or after the titl" and cause of action shall'or
VoL IV.

.3A

SUPREME COURT U. S.
S-0FA RHAT.

V.

LESSFE,
'--.any

may descend or accrue tothe same, and at no time after
the said seven years. And that no persbn or persona
that now hath, or have any right or title of entry into
lands, &c, shall at any time hereafter make any entry, but within seven years next after the passing of this
act, or after his or their right or title, shall or may descendor accrue to the same, and in default thereof, such
person so not entering, and their heirs, shall be utterly
excluded and disabled from such enitry after to be
made."
The verdict and judgment below, being -gainst the
defendant, he sued out his writ of error.
There being no appearance in-this court for the plain;
tiff in error,

P. B. Ksey, for the defendant in error, opened the record, and prayed an affirmance of the judgment;
1. Because from the facts disclosed, after the descent
had been cast nearly thirty years, and no adverse possessior at any time proved, the jury had a right to/ire&umeandfind an actual entry within seven years; if
such actual entry was necessary.
2. Because, in this case, on the facts disclosed, -no
entry was necessary. Two things only'must concur to
complete a title. Possession, and the right ofpropertu.
The right of property is proved to be in 'the plaintiff as
heir of the patentee ; and possession by operation of law,
accompanies the title, unless the contrary is shewn; and
until it is shewn.
If possession is! taken by a wrong-doer, and~severed
from the title (of, Which there is no evidence in this
case) then such naked possession, so acquired, may be
defeated, either by entrq of the owner, which is an act
in.pais, revesting the possession; and again 'uniting it
with the right; or by ejectmnent, which is an act of law,
to recover the possession with damages, &'.
If a %irong-doer,after faking possession, dies in possession, and a descent is cast, this, under some circum-

13EBRUARY, 188.

369

stances., changes the title to a right of entry, or rather SUIagnt4.
V.
V.
makes an actual entry necessary to give effect to the
tide. There are many'cases in which actual entry is
Lns bz.
necessary to reunite the title with the possession, and %.uy-awd
for these cases the law of Georgia was made. But it
cannot apply to a case where the title and the possessiwi
.have not been separated.
That law requires two things:
1st." When the right is changed to a mere right of er
try, or where 'an entry is indispensable to complee the
title, then such entry must be within seven years from
the accruing of such right of entry., oBut this does trot
apply'to the case on the record. No disseisin, discontinuance, descent, or advefse possession existed, to
make an actual eptry necessary on the part of the plaintiff., The title and the possession were both in him. "
d. The statute gives remedy by ejectment within
seven years after the cause of action acirued. In this
case no cause of action accrued till the 10th of Septeniber, 1804, when the plaintiff's possession was disturbed.
So long as it remained undisturbed he could nor bring
suit.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The errgr alleged, is founded
ofn a construction of the act of Georgia, which this court
thinks is totally, inadmissible. How such an opinion
could have been entertained is unaccountable. There
is no foundation for it.
'

Judgment affirmed with costs.

