SUPREME COURT U. S.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1808.

FITZSIMMONS v. .THE NEWPORT INSURANCE COMPANY.
V.

INS Co.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of RhodeIslandi in an action upon a policy of insurance 'on the an intntjaito.
a block.
brig 7ohn, warranted American property, from Charles- enter
aded port afton, South Carolina,to Cadiz, captured -by a British ship ter warning,
of war on the 16th of July, 1800, carried into Gibraltar, is not aftempand. there condemned on the 26th day.of August follow- ling to enter
ing. The cause of condemnation set forth in the sen- it.Q,,cre, whe.
tence was, that the brig was " cleared out for Cadiz, a ther a foreign
port actually blockaded," and that the master "persist- Eentence of
ed in his intention of entering that port, after 7arning condemnation'
be conclua re
frotih the blockading force not to do so, in directbreach evidence in
and violation of the blockade thereby notifed." On the an action a.
trial in the court below the jury found a special verdict, gatpit the qnstating, among other things, that the blockade of Cadiz derw ritera :
was not known at Charleston when the John sailed from'
thence, and that the first noice the master hqd was from
the blockading squadron, who brought to the brig, and
warned the master not to proceed to, nor attempt to enter the port of Cadiz, and indorsed his register ; but the
master had no notice of such indorsement upon his register until after the condemnation. The mate andsome
of the !eamen were taken out, and a prize master and
British seamen put on board. She was detained.by the
Peralin in

188

1xrzs~u.ONS
NEWPORT

INs. Co

'and

SUPREME COURT U. S.

blockadipg squadron from the 16th to the 27th of July,
when the master was ordered on board the adiniral's
ship, and told, "1we have thoughts, of setting you at
liberty, and in case we do, and deliver you your vessel
papers, what course will you steer, or what port will
you proceed for ?" To which the master answered, that
in cas he got no -ndw orddrs, .he should continue to
steer by his old ones. The.admiral then said, "that will
be, I suppose, for Cadiz.", To which the master replied, ",certainly, unless I havenew orders."* Upon
-which the admiral said, "that issuffiaient; I shall send
you to Gibraltar for adjudication." Whereupon the
brig, without being liberated, was sent into Gibraltar,
and condemned on the'groutids stated in the sentence.
The libel and proceedings in the vice admiralty are
found by the special verdict. An appeal was prayed and
granted from the 'vice-admiralty court, but it does not
appear to have been-prosecuted..' The judgment ift the
court below was for the original defendants.
This cause was several times argued, having been
pending in this ourt ever since the year 1803.

......

It was now'argled by -Dallasarid C. Lee for the plaintiff in error'; and by'Rawle for the-defendants.
Adgument for the plaintiff in error.
1. The plaintiff is entitled in the present action to supporthis claim by the truth of the case, in opposition to
thefalehood of the sentence.
2. The cause expressly assigned for condemning the
vessel is not a lawful cause of condemnation, tested by
the law of nations, or by the treaty betiveen this country
an- .Great Britain.
1. The question of conclusiveness of a'foreign sentence of a'cdurt-of admiralty, in a case of insurance, has
never yet been settldd in this court. Ii is res integra.
-

In a quedtin 'dfprinciple, and where this court is
bpind by no authoiity or precedent, it:will take the path
which leads to justice.
-

FEBRUARY, 1807.

187

1st. How does it standupon gineral principlesP

FTM.
V.

By what principle are we bound to enforce a foreign NzPoa-e
judgment? Not that of comity and reciprocity; for that, lus. co.
would often be to sanction gross error and- palpable injustice; but upon the principle of publicpolicy and convenience, andthis can extend no further than is necessary to quiet the title to the thing icquired under such
a srntence. So far as th& tide to the thing itself is concerned, a foreign sentence must be cotisidered as qonclusive, but no further. A foreign municipal judgment,
when brought into our courts to be enforced, is only
primafacie evidence ;.but when set up as a defence it is
conclusive, because it is the decision of that tribunal to
whith the plaintiff has chosen to resort. It is, therefdre, cpnclusive against him, but not in his favour.
judgments upon attachments, which change the property of the thing attached; are conclusive as to the title
of the thing, but not as to the question of debt between
the principal creditor and debt6r.
Why should a sentence of condemnation as prize be
conclusive in a knit for indemnity against capture
Public policy is not concerned in the question whether
the insurer or the insured should bear the loss.
The underwriter promises indemnity agdiinst capture
and its effects, if the property'be neutral. The assured
warrants t1e neutrxlty,.bat not the acquittalin a foreign
prize court. He -s bound to sue, labour and travelfor.
the benefit of the underwritr inkthis case as well as in
others. But the loss by capture and condemnation isthe very peril insured agai'nst; and all the. assured is
bound to do, is to prove*that his property was -really
neutral ;,he does not' ttke upon himself thb risk of the
injustice of foreign 'courts, any more' than the "ifijus.
tice of any other dehiartment Qf a foreign government*
What is it but the injustice of belligerent 'nations which
makes a difference between a war risk and a peace risk
upon neutral property? And what consolatibn is it to
tfe ins.ured that his property is lost by. the injustice of
a court," rather than by that of the executive power?
All that is required of him i. good faith; he does not

188
FITZS!m9ovss
N

SUPREME COURT U. S

answer for the good faith of a foreign tribunal; a trilbunal too whose decisions are professedly not founded upon

"WPORTthe principles of abstract right, but upon the will of ihe

IS. Co.

sovereign.

The capture alone gives the right to abandon, and consequently to redover for a total loss. The ,subsequent
claim and litigation is. in truth, by and for the benefit of
the underwriter. The assured is only bound to prove
the neutrality in the suit between the underwriter and
himself.
The doctrine that all the world are parties to a suit
upon a question of prize is a mere fiction, and is never
.appliedto any question but that of the title to the thing
I
itself.
2d. How does the principle stand upon precedents of
other nations .
Upon a question of general law, or the law of nations,
we are nbt to look'to the practice of one nation only. We
are as much bound by the precedents of France, its we
are by those of England since our revolution.
* In France,wearetold by Emerigon,'the sentence of a
foreign prize court is not conclusive upon collateral cases.
It only protects the title to the property acquired undr it.

In England a system has bben raised ; but like an inverted cone, it iests -only ona single point. The case of
.tltughes v. Corilelius, rep6rted in 28hoVwer, 232. 7.
Raym. 473. and,Shin. 59. is the only basis upon which
thefabiipis erected. This case only decides, what we
admit, .th attaforeign sentence is conclusive as -to the
title in the thing itself. This is the only reported case,
prior to the revolution ; and thus the, question renlained until the cpse of ;Bernardi v. Afotteux, Doug. 575.
which was decided in the year 1781. The pbint of that
decision wfis, that a sentence of condemnation by a foreign court of admiralty, was not conclusive evidence of
a breach of the warranty of *neutrality, if the sentence
does not a1ppear t, hayve proceededupon that ground,

"i EBRUARY, 1808.

Pzrk, p. 365. has given the result of all the cases, and
dedtices this general doctrine:

1. "That wherever the ground of the sentence is
manifest, and it appears to hav6 proceeded expicssly
upon the point in issue between the parties ;" or
2. ",
Wherever the septence is general, and no special ground is stated, there itshall be conclusive and
binding, and the court here will not take upon themselves, in a collateral way, to review the proceedings of
a forum, having competent jurisdiction of the suluiect
matter."
3. "But if the sentence be so ambiguous and doubtful
that it is difficult to say on what ground the decision
turne'd ;" or,

4. " If there be colourto suppose that the court abroad
proceeded upon matter not relevant to the matter in issue, there evidence will be allowed in order to' explain."
And,
5. " If the sentence, upon the face of it, be manifestly
against law and justice, or be contradictory, the insured
shall not bedeprived of his indemnity ; because, to use
the words of Mr. Justice Buller, any detention by particular ordinances or decrees, which contravene, or do
not form a part of the law of nations, is a risk within a
policv of insurance."
The counsel for the plaintiff commented at larg upon
the cases of -Salouciv. o7ohnson, Par, 362. - Lothian v.
Henderson, 3 Bos. and Pul. 516. Geyer vt Agtilar, 7
"T.R. 68i. Garrelsv. Kensington, 8 T. le. 230. 6alvert v. Bovill, 7 T. R. 526. Kindersty v. Chase, in the
eockpit, decided by Sir W. Grant, Park, 363. 511h Sd.
3layne v. WValter, Park, 363. Pollardv.'Bell, 8 T. R.
134. Birdv. Appleton, 8 T. R. 563. Price v. Bell, 1
East,663. Bearing v. Christie, 5 East,' 398. Baring
v. Clagett, 3 Bos. and Pul.212. and 8 T. R. 192. Christie v. Secretan, from all which they drew the conclusion
that according to English precedents, which, however,
they denied to be authorities in this court, except the

Fr.sz,.

No.t1
V.

IftwMPOnT

1:.s Co.

SUPREME COUR1 U. S.
FrTZS M-

11No.S
V.

NEWPORT

INS. Co.
icountries

case of Hushes,v. Cornelius, a foreign sentence of con-

demnation is not conclusive evidence of the want of
neutral'character, unless it proceeds upon a ground warranted by. the law of nations, or by treaties between' the
of the captor and the captured.,

3d. As to domestic precedents, they are not decisive.
In New-York the law is finally settled against the conclusiveness. 1 N. 2. Cases in Error, 7. 2 N. 2. Cases
ihError, 217. 3 N. Ir.. T. R. 223. .240. But in the
supreme court of Pennsylvania the question is still sub
judce, as it is in most of the other states.
II. The cause expressly assigned for condemnation is
not a lawful cause, either under the law of nations, or the
treaty between this country and Great Britain.
The capture itself was a total loss, avd gave the right
to abandon. 'At the time of abandonment there was no
restitution.
The sentence is not a decree of enemy property, nor
generally as lawfulprize, but it is a condemnation on
special grounds. 1. That she was cleared out for Cadiz,
a port actually blockaded. 2, That the masterpersistcd
in his intention of entering that port, after warning froth
the blockading force not to do so, in direct breach and
violation of the blockade.
ut is not stated that the blockade was known at the
time of her sailing, nor that any attempt was made to enter Cadiz after notice. -The special verdict finds that
the blockade did not exist at the time of her sailing ;
and that after being verbally notified of the blockade, the
vesel was at no time ht liberty, so 'that she could have
gtte'pt d.tq euter the port. That although the register
was indorsed, yet the master had no knowledge of it until after his arrival at Gibraltar.
The offence charged is, persisting in an intention to do
what he had no power to do. This intention is inferred
from the conversation between the master and the admiral, which is_ detailied in the special verdict, -nd which,
on the part of the latter, was insidious, and calculated to

FEBRIARY, 1808.

entrap. From the effect of such conversations it was the Fl-ss,.
duty of the court to protect the master. 1 Rob. 7. The.
.Afercurius. The answer of the master was honest, sim- .
ple, and proper: " that ifi case he got no new orders, he
i-.S. Co.
should steer by his bld ones." This was no more than
his duty. Those new'orders1 if given by the admiral,
would have been obeyed, and would have justified the
master in his deviation.
But even an intention to violate a blockdde, unless followed by some act, such as sailing wjth thaIt intent, &c.
is no cause of condemnation under the law of nations.
ialey v. Shattu=4, ante, vol. 3..p. 488. The Betsey, '
Rob. 280. The Spes and Irene, 5 Rob. 6. The Shepherdess, 5 Rob. 235. Vattel, b. 3. s. 117. The Prrow
Yudith, 1 Rob. 128. The Columbia, 1 Rob. 130. The
Vrow 7okanna, 2 Rob. 91. The eptunus, 2 Rob. 92.95,
96. The Apollo, 5 Rob. 256. The Columbia, I A. 2
Cases in Error, 7. 1 Rob. 130. 3 AT.'T.T. 1. 226.
If the intention be not a cause of condemnation under
the law. of nations, much less is it bnder the British
'treaty, article 18. (Laws U. S. W1. 2,.p. 484.) the woids
of which are, -' And whereas it frequdntly happens that
vessels sail for a port or place belonging to an enemy,
withoulknowing that the same is either besieged, blockaded or invested,. it is agreed that every vessel so circunistanced may be turned away from such port.or place,
but she shall not be detained, n 6 r her cargo, if not contrqband;T be confiscated, unless, after notice, she shall
again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitte&. to go
to any other port or place she may think proper..
If condemned without an attempt, the sentence of condemnation is not warranted by the treaty, and therefore
does.not falsify the warranty of neutrality. 8 T. R. 434.
Pollardv. Bell. 8 T. R. 562. Birdv. Appleton. 1 East,
663. Price v. Bell. 5 Eas, .398. Baringv. Christie.
1 V. 2. Cases in Error,7. 3 ..
T. R1. 226.
Argumentfor the defendants in error.
This court can only decide what the law is, not what
it ought to be..
VoL IV.

3b

192
IrTrZs"u
Nsw ,oaT

1Xs. Co.

SUPREME COURTU. S.

We contend for thre6'points.
1. That the vessel was justly condemned for attempting to break the blockade.
2. That the sentence is conclusive evidence of the
fact.
3. That the condemnation was the consequence of the
improper act of the master, for which the underwriters
are not liable.
1. The first point is not deniedi if the fact be that there
was an attempt to break the blockade.w
I A verbal notice to the master was as good as if it had
been ip Writing, because he could himself see that .3
blockade defacto existed.
An attempt is a conclusion from a variety of facts and
circumstances. I Bos. and Pul. 185. A persisting in
the inte, tion after-warning ; a public 6pen avowal of that
,intentio i when- he had the offer of his liberty to go to
any port but Cadiz, amounted to an attempt to break the
blockade. The British squadron could not have suffered him to go off with such declarations. He hid no right
to demand orders, from the British admiral, nor had the
latter a right, to give them. He could not direct him to
what port to go. The master was bound to act according to his best discretion in such a case. The only orders which the British commander could give were not
to go to Cadiz.
.t was a continuance (after notice) of the original
attempt to enter the port, which was made before no-.
tice. 1 Rob. 123. 5 Rob. 256.
2. The sentence is.conclusive evidence against the
plaintiff.
* Rawle, offered to read the depositione and evldence contained

in the proceedings of the vice-admiralty, which were referred to
by the special verdict, and of which a copy was thereto annexed,
But the Court stopped him, saying that the proceedings in the
vice-adipiralty court were only matter of evidence to the jury, into
which this rourt cotld not look.

FEBRUARY,.1808.
This point is not now to be decided on principles of
policy or comity, but upon principls of law long establi'shed and settled. It has been the fashion to consider
this as a modern priqciple, fabricated upon mational
motives of interest since *the revolution.
But it rests on principles of a much earlier date. It
is found in existence at earl, periods, when the cornmerce of England was in its infancy. It is tht tipplication only which is modern.
-In the "case of copyhold leases," 4 Co. 29. (a) it was
decided, that the sentence of the ecclesiastical court
dissolving the marriage was ponclusive evidence that
the first marriage, was void, and that the issue of the
second marriage was legitimate. So in Kenn'&case, 7
Co. 42, 43. it was holden, 11 that the sentence" of the
ecclesiastical judge ",should conclude as long as it remained in for'e." So in Buller's N.P. 2 4. it is said" In an action upon a policy of insurance, with a warranty that the ship was Swedish, the sentence of a French
adnliralty court condemning the ship asEnglish property, was holilen conclusive evidence." This case is
taken from The Theory of Evidence, published in 1 61,
and consequently was before our revolution. It-seems
- to be the first case noticed in the books, where the pririciple was applied to a case ot insurance. The cdise of
Fernandesv. De Costa, Parh, 177, 178. was in.the 4th
year of George -It "longbefore our revolution. In
that case the sentence of the French prize court was
holden to be conclusive evidence in favour of the underwriter. The counsel cited also Carth. 225. Yfones
v. Bow, where the sentence of -the spiritual court was
holden to be conclusive. Also the -Dutchess of Kingston's case, 11 State Trials, and the ca e "f Alosea v.
lJPPherlan,2 Burr. 1005. and Walher v. Witter, Doug.
1. Galbraithv. Nesil, Doug. 5. in note. LordKaim's
.2rinciplesof Equity, 369 to 375.
Thus stood the cases before the revolution. The
principle of law was fixed and -general; and all -the
later decisions are but applications of the principle to
particular cases. Once admit the case of Bughes v.
Cornelis to-be law, and the whole doctrine, to the ex-

Frmsrk-

.
Ihs. Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FrTzs1Sz-

tent to-which it has been carried in England, flodvs as a
nec.essary consequence. As ketween the parties it is

'V.

-admitted to be conclusive, and asto the title to the thing,
the question is at rest. The plaintiff in this case was
party to the suit in the vice-admiralty at Gibraltar.
.- e.is bound by the sentence at all events, ho*ever it
might be with regard to another person. As to him it
has pas~ed ad remz judcatam. If the property in the
thing has passed, why not the title to its, value ? The
title is as much gone from the underwriter as it is from
the assured. He is equally precluded from the chahce
of recovery find from the benefit of the abandonment.
By the sentence the property is changed. It is not by
an act of arbitrary power, or of superior force, or by
an act of legislation, but by thejudgment-of a court of
competent, peculiar, and exclusive jurisdiction. For
among nations, the court of the captor is as much a
court 6f peculiar and exclusive jurisdiction of the questionof prize, as the ecclesiastical courts are in Epgland
of ecclesiastical causes.

MONS

NEwoT

Ins.

Co.

'

-

It is the adjudication of a court to whosejurisdictia.
he has2 submitted, by putting in his claim, and before
which he vas bound to support the neutrality of the
property, in order to give.him a right to recover against
the underwriters. They do not ,undertake to support
-the neutrality of the property. That is entirely his
business, and if he fails to do so, and by that ineans
the property is lost, the loss must fall upon him.
It is of less importance which way the question is
decidedi than that it should be settled. When the law
is once ascertained, merchants and underwriters will
malke their contracts accordingly, and provide against
the effect of foreign sentences, if they think proper.
-The warranty of neutrality necessarily refers to the
decision of foreign prize courts. Neutrality is a question incident to that of prize, which can be tried only
in'a foreign court, because it can only be tried in a
court of the belligerent captor, and our own courts are
t-he ,courts of. , neutral nation. Courts of prize are
courts 6f the law- of nations, and their deiisions upon
questions arising under the law of nations, are to be

FEBRUARY, 1808.
considered as the judgments of domestic courts. The
question of neutrality is always expected to bemgitated
in a foreign tribunal. The underwriters do not take
upon themselves the risk of condenination for want of
the neutral character, and it is to protect them froit
thatrisk that the warranty of neutrality is inserted. But
if the sentence is conclusive to prevent them.from all
chance of recovering the property, and not conclusive
in their favour against the claim of the assured, the
warranty of neutrality would afford them no protection
from the -risk against which it was the understanding of
the parties that they should be protected.
The counsel then went into an examination of the
cases of Rapaje v. Emory, 2 Dall. 51. 231. Penliallow v. Doane, 3 Dall.85. 88. 116. Masse v. Ball, 2
Dall..270. J'andeheuvel'.v case, 2 AT 2.Cases in Error,
226. and Haley v. Shattuci, 3 Cranch, 488. to show
that the general inclination of the courts in this country
was in favour of the conclusiveness of a foreign sentence.
They also examined the cases of Bernardi v. Aloto
teatex, Doug. 575. Barzillai v. Lewis, Park, 358.
Salouci v. Woodmas, Park, 360. Geyer v. ASuilar, 7
T. R. .681. Christie v. Secretan, 8 T. R. 199Z. Kindersley v. Chase, Park, 363. (o). 5th ed. Lothian v.
Bfenderson, 3 Bos. & Pul.499. Baring v. Royal Ex.
In. Co. 5 .East, 99. Alayne v.Walter, Doug. 363.
Pollardy. Bell, 8 T. R. 434. Bird v. Appleton, 5 T.
R. 562. -Pricev. Bell, 1 East, 663. and Bolton v, Gladstone, 5 East, 155. not only to show how far the
doctrine has been extended in England, but to prove
by the declarations of the judges that the principle, as
applied to insurance cases, was adopted qnd undisputed
before-our separation from Great Britain.
3. The condemnation was the consequence of the
improper-act of the master, for which the underwriters
are not answerable.
SUnderyriters are not liable for a loss proceeding
from negligence or misconduct'of the master, unless it
amount to barratry. Parr, 24. 1 Emeriqw, 364. 373.

Frrzs,:s,
NrV.OR

Ins. Co.

?96

Firzsm.

Iss. Co.

SUPIENME COURT U. S.

401. 441% 2 Valin, r9. 1 T. R. 160.
hnd the case of Gray v. Myeks, illS.

4 Dall. 294.

Argument, in reply.

1. The master of the vessel made no attdmbt to' enter
Cadiz after notice. He never had the power, because
he never had.the possession of his vessel after the warning. An attempt consists of an act as well its of an
intent. But here there is evidence of an intent onlf/.
All the cases cited show some act done with the intent
to enter.
2. Asto the question of conclusiveness ; all the cases
cited from 4 and 7 Co. C1arthewv, and 2 Burrows, ivere
domestic sentences. The case cited from Bul. F. P.
and The Theory of Evidence, is of no authority. It
does not appear when, nor where, nor by whom it was
decided. The book is anonymous, and refers only to
the case of Hughes v. Cornelius, 2 S/ower, 232. which
does not support it. The case of Fernandes v. J9a
Costa is hot Pgainst us. There the sentence was supported by an answer in chancery of the plaintiff, 'and
left to the jury by Lord Mansfield, with the other evidence ; and the plaintiff was permitted to give evidence
to show the ship was Portuguese, as warranted. The
case of Rapalje v. Emory was aforeign attachment, and
the only decision upon it was, to give validity to the
title of the property condemned. In The case of Vasse
v. Ball, the court did not decide the sentence to be
conclusive, but weit into an examination of its merits.

The common law courts have exclusive jurisdiction
of questions of insurance, and wherever the question
of neutrality is necessarily ini,,ved in a question of insurance, theyhave as complete jurisdiction to try the
question of neutrality, as a court of prize has. Thit court
ihich has jurisdiction,of theprincipal question, has
necessarily jurisdiction of all incidental questions. The
underwriter takes upon himself the risk of unlawful
capture, and the court which is to decide upon'hi liability in the particular case, must necessarily decide
,vhether the capture were lawful- or not ; and if found
to be unlawful, the plaintiff must. recover.,

FEBRUARY, 1808.

3. No words of the master could amount to such
He did
conduct as would exonerate the underwriter.
no ict whatever.

1FTism
MONS
x.%%PORT

IS.

February d, 1808.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. (all the seven judges betng present) deliverod the opinion of the court as follows

viz.

This suit is instituted to recover from the underwriters the amount of a policy insuring the brig John, on
.avoyage from Charleston to Cadiz. The' vessel was
captured on her passage by a British squadron then
blockading that port, was sent into Gibraltar for adjudication, and was there condemned by the court of viceadmiralty as lawful prize. The assured warrants the
ship to be American propert"; and the defence.is, that
this warranty is conclusively falsified by the sentence of
condemnation.
The points made for the consideration of the court
are,
1st. Is the sentence of a foreign court of admiralty
conclusive evidence, in an action against the underwriters, of the facts it professes to decide ! If so,
9d. Does this sentence, upon its face, falsify the warranty contained in the policy? If not,
3d. Does the special verdict exhibit fa.ts which fal.
sify the warranty ?
The question on the conclusiveness of a sentence of
a foreign court of admiralty having been more than on'.
elaborately argued, the courc reluctantly avoids a decision of it at present. But there-are particular reasons
which restrain one of thejudges from giving an opinion
on that point, and another case has been mentioned, in
which-it is said to constitute the sole question. In that
case, it will of course be determined.

Co.

198
FITZSI.-

231oNas
V.
NZWPORT

INS. Co.
\Admitting

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Passing over the considration of the first point,
xherefore, the.court proceeded to inquire whether this
cause could be decided on the second and third points.
for the present that the sentence of a foreign court of admiralty is conclusive, with respect to
what it professes 'to decide, does this sentence falsify'
the warranty contained in this policy, that the brig John is American property ?
The sentence declares " the said brig to have been
cleared out for Cadiz, a port actually blockaded by the
arfis of our sovereigt lord the king, and that the master of said .brig persisted in hia intention of entering
that port, after warning from the bloclading force not
to do so, iri
a direct breach and violation of the blockade
thereby notified."
The sentence, then, does not deny the brig to have
been American property. But it is contended by the
counsel for the underwriters, that a ship warranted to
be American is impliedly warranted to conduct herself
during the voyage as an Americadn, and that an attempt
to enter a blockaded port,, knowing it to be blockaded,
forfeits that character.
This position cannot be controverted.
It remains, then, to inquire, whether the sentence
proves the brig John to have violated the laws of blockade ; that is, whether the cause of condemnation is
alleged in such terms as to show that the veqsel had forfeited her neutral character, or in such terms as to show
its insufficiency to support the sentence.
The fact of clearing out for a blockaded port, is ip
itself innocent, unless it be accompanied iith' knowledge of'the blockade. The clearance, therefore, is'
not considered as the offence ; the persisting in the intention to enter that port, after warning by the blockading force, is the ground of tho sentence.
Is this intention (evidenced by no fact whatever) a
breach of blockade ? This question is to be decided bj,

FEBRUARY, 1808.
a reference to the law of nations, and to the treaty between tile United States and Great Britain.
Vattel, b. 3. s. 117. says, " All commerce is entirely
prohibited with a besieged town. If I lay siege to a
place, or only form the blockade, I have a right to hinder any one from entering, and to treat as an enemy
whoever attempts to euter the place, or carry any thing
to the besieged, without my leave."
The right to treat the vessel as an enemy is declared,
by Vattel, to be founded on, the attempt to enter, and
certainly this attempt must be made by a person knowing the fact.
But this subject has been precisely regulated by the
treaty between the United States and Great Britain,
which was in force when this condemnation took place.
That treaty contains the following clause:
"And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail
for a port or place belonging to an enemy, without,
kn6wing that the same is either besieged, blockaded or
invested ; it*s agreed that every vessel so circumstanced may be turned away from such port or place, but
she shall not be detained, nor her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless ifter notice she shall again
attempt to enter; but she shall be permitted to go to any
other port or place she may think proper."
This treaty is conceived -to be a correct exposition of
the law of nations ; certainly it is admitted by the parties to it, as between themselves, to be a correct exposition of that law, or to constitute a rule in the place of
it.
Neither-the law of nations nor the treaty admits of
the condemnation of the neutral vessel for the intention
to enter a blockaded port, unconnected with any fact.
Sailing for a blockaded port, knowing it to be blockaded,
has been in some English cases construed into an attempt to enter that port, and has therefore been adjudged
a breach of the blockade from the departure of the vesVol. IV.

C c

FITZSM-M

V.OS
V.
NwrowrT

INs. Co.

200

FIzs 9VIo.s
V.
14mE"VPORr

iws. Co.
'

sel.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Without giving any opinion on that point, it may

be observed, that in such cases the fact of sailing is

coupled with the intention, and the sentence of condemnation is founded on an actual breach of blockade.
The cause assigned for condemnation would be a justifiable cause, and it would be for the foreign court alone
to determine whether the testimony supported the allegation that the blockade was broken. Had this sentence
averred that the brig John had broken the blockade, or
had attempted to enter the port of Cadiz after warning
from the blockading force, the cause of condemnation
viould have been justifiable, and withou; controverting
che conclusiveness of the sentence, the assured could
not have entered into any inquiry respecting the conduct
of the vessel. But this is not the language of the sentence. An attempt to enter. the port of Cadiz is not
alleged, but persisting in the intention, after being
warned not to 'enter it, is alleged as the cause of condemnation. This is not a good cause under the treaty.
It is impossible to read that instrument without perceiving a clear intention in the parties to it, that after
notice of the blockade, an attempt to enter the port
must be made, in order to subjeLithe yessel to confiscation. By the language of the treaty it would appear
that a second attempt, after receiving notice, must be
made, in order to constitute the offence which will justify a confiscation. " It is agreed," says that instrument, " that every vessel so eirctimstanced" (that is,
every vessel sailing for a blockaded port, vithout knowledge of the blockade) " may be turned away from such
port or place, but she shall not be detained, noi her
cargo, if not contraband, be fconfiscated, unless after
notice she shall again attempt t~o enter."
These words strongly import a stipulation that there
shall be a free agency on the part of the commander of
the vessel, after receiving notice of the blockade, and
that there shall be no detention nor condemnation, unless, in the exercise of that free agency, a second attempt to enter the invested place shall be made.
It cannot be necessary to state Ihat testimony which
would amount to evidence of such second attempt.
Lingering about the place, as if watrhing for an oppor-

FEBRUARY,

18o8.

tunity to sail into it, or the single circumstance of not
making immediately for some other port, or possibly
obstinate and determined declarations of a resolution to
break the block.(de, might be evidence of an attempt,
after warning, to enter the blockaded port. But whether these circumstances, or others, may or may not
amount to evidence of the offence, the offence itself is
attempting again to enter, and " unless, after notice,
she shall again attempt to enter," the two nations expressly stipulate " that she shall, not be detained, nor
her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated." It would
seem as if, aware of the excesses which might be justified, by converting intention into offtnce, the American negotiator had required the union of fact with intention, to constitute the breach of a blockade.
The cause of condemnation, then, as described in
this sentence, is one which, by express compact between
the United States and Great Britain, is an insufficient
cause, unless the intention was manilested in such manner as, in fair construction, to be equivalent to an attempt to enter Cadiz, after knowledge of the blockade.
This not being proved by the sentence itself, the parties
are let in to other evidence.
However conclusive, tient the sentence may be, of
the particular facts which it alleges, those facts not
amounting, in themselves, to a justifiable cause of condemnation, the court must look into the special verdict,
which explains what is uncertain in the sentence. The
special verdict shows that the vessel was seized on her
approaching the port of Cadiz, without previous knowledge of the blockade; that she never was turned away,
and "permitted to go to"any other port or pface ;" that
she was "detained" for several days, and then sent in
for adjudication, without being ever put into the possession of her captain and crew, so as to .enable her either
" again to attempt to enter" the port 6f Cadiz, or' to
sail for some other port ; that while thus detained, the
commander of the blockading squadron drew the captain of the John into a conversation which must be
termed insidious, since its object was to trepan him
into expressions which might be -construed into evidence
of an.intention to sail for Cadiz, should he be liberated ;

FITZSLM.

.4ot
NPwtr
is, Co.

-

-20f2
FrTzsxsMONS
NEWPORT

Is.

Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

thai availing himself of some equivocal,'unguarded,

" and perhaps indiscreet answers on the part"of the cap-

tain; the vessel was sent in for adjudication ; and on
those expressions was condemned.
This court is of opinion that these fcts do not amount
t&an attempt again to enter the port of Cadiz, and
therefore do not amount, under the tkeaty between the
United States and. Great Britain, to a breach of the
blockade of Cadiz. The sentence of the court of viceadmiralty in Gibraltar, therefore, is not cbnsidered as
falsifying the warranty that the brig John was Ameiican property, or as disabling the assuied from recovering against the underwriters in thfg action, and
the testimony in the case shows that the blockade was
not broken.
The judgment of the circuit court is to be reversed,
with costs, and it is to be certified to that court, that
judgment is to be entered on the special'verdict for the,
plaintiff.
Jtddgrnent'reversed,

MAJSHIIALL
MA.AR
DJ.LAWARE

DELAWA RE INSUv.THECOMPANVt.
AIARSHALL
RANCE

INs. Co.

The

right

ERROR to the cirduit court for the distrkt of Penn-

a policy ofinof the insured sylvania, in an action for a total loss, 6di
to ,abadon surance oh the Brig Rolla, her cargo and freight.
and recover
foratotalloss, - The material facts stated, were, thai tlhe Brig-Rolla,
depend~s upon
the Slate or"a neutral vessel, while prosecuting the voyage insured,.
th-factat tle was capiured

by itbelligerent cruiser,, and libelled as

time of the prize-f war. On the 9th 6fJui', 1806, a final sentence

don, tld n'-in favour of the vessel and c~argo was passed, and on the
upon the slate 19th of the same month, about .1fo'clock P. M. restiOn the 17th o July the assured in
of the ,#for- tution was made.
lzatimt
received.

