FEBRUARY, 1808.

293

givingjurisdiction to the court which passed thi seutence
Rost
of condemnation, and, therefore, that the aid sentence •H12tV.LY.
did not change the property in The Sarah and her cargo, V
which ought to be restored to the plaintiffs, the original
owners, subject to those charges of freight, insurance
and other expenses which would haie been incurred by
the owners in bringing, the cargo into the United States,
which equitable deductions the defendants are at liberty to show in the circuit court. This court is therefore of opini6n, that the sentence of the circuit court of

South Carolina ought to be reversed, and the cause be remanded to that court, in order that a final decree may be
made therein, conformably to this opinion.

HUDSON AND OTHERS v. GUESTIER,
AND

LAFONT v. BIGELOW

HU2SOn AN D
OTU 525
V.
GUFsTIE-.

THESE cases were argued in connexion with that of I a vessel,
b): a
ezed privaRose v. ffimel.
Frenc
teer,

within

MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion ot the the territorial

curr as

llows:

jurisdiction of
c a o govern.
ment or st.

This case differs from that-of &,osev. Himely in one Dumingo, for
material fact. The vessel and cargo, which constitute breach of the
the subject of controversy, were seized withinthe terri- Frenchb%,munipro.

torialjurisdictionof the government ofSt. Domingo, and
carried into a Spanish port. While lying in that port,
proceedin
were regularly instituted- in the court for
.the. island of Guadaloupe, the cargo was sold by a provisional order of that court, after which the vessel and
cargo were condemned, The single question, therefore,
which exists in this case is, did the, court of. the captor
lose its jurisdiction over the captured vessel by its being
carried intoha Spanish port.

hi tng al interoursewith
certan
rts
in thatla,
be caried by
the captors
dirctlY to a
Slanish Ni'
of cub l she
Tning while
lying there,

294
HUDSON AND
OTHERS
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

- The seizure was indisputably a valid seizure, and

vested the lawful possession of the vessel in the sovereign of the captor. The right consequently'existed in
GUESTIER.
full force to apply immediately to the proper tribunals
be lawfully for an examination df, and decision on the offence alleprocdeded a- ged to, have been committed. The jurisdiction of those
galost and
cundenedy tribunals had attached, and this righfto decide upon the
a French tri- offence-was complete.

bunal sitting
at Guadaloupe.
The possession of the
sovereign
of
the captors,
givesjurisdico,

When a seizure is thus made for the violhtion of a mu-

nicipal law, the mode of-proceeding must be exclusively
regulated by the sovereign power of the country, and no
foreign court is at liberty .to question-the correctness of
what is done, unless the court passing the sentence loses
tion to his its jurisdiction by some circumstance which. the law of
courts. The nations can notice. Recapture, escape, or a voluntary
possession of discharge of the captured vessel would be such a circumthe captor's in
a neutral poit stance, because the.sovereign would be thereby deprived
is the po;ses- of the possession of the thing, and of his power over it.
uion of their While this possession remains, the res may be either resovereignif stored or sold, the sentence of the court cah be executed,
the possession

be lost by re- and therefore this possession seems to be the essefitial
capture,escape, fact on which the jurisdiction of the court depends.,
or- voluntary

discharge, the
The laws of the United States require that a vessel
courts of the
taptorlosethe which has been seized for violating them should be iried
jurisdiction
in the district where the offence is committed, and cerwhich they tainly it
i would be irregular and illegal for the tribunal of
had acquired
by the seizure
The trial of
a municipal

sei1zure must
be regulated
ewiclusively by
municipallaw.
co foreign

a different district to act upon the case. Nit of this irregularity, it is believed, no foreign court could take notice. The United States might enable the admiralty'
courts of one district to decide on captures made for offehces com mitted in another district. It is afninternal
regulation,, to be expounded by our own courts, and of
whici the law of nations can take no notic6. The poa-

quesion the session of the thing would be in the sovereiga power of
correctness oi ttk state, und it is competent to that'power to give jt ris,

what is done, diction, over it to any of its tribunals. There exists Al
unless thi
full power fh
over the subject, and
ability to'execute the
court passingsnec
n annaiiyt
the sefitence, sentence of the court. The sovereign power possessing
loses its it- jurisdiction, over th6 thing, must be'presumed by foreign

risdiction 4y tribunals.to have e.'$ercised that jurisdiction properly.

some circumstance which But if the res be out of the power of.the sovereign, he
the law of na- cannot act- upon it, nor delegate'authority to art upon it
tions can no- to his courts.
tice.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

295

If these principles be'c6rrect, it remains to inquire Hunon A:-

whether the brig Sea Flower remained in the possession
and in the powei of the sovereign of the captor after be-

ing. carried into a Spanish port.
Had this been a prize of war, we have precedents and
principles which'would guide us. The cases cited from
Robinson's Reports, and the regulations made by Louis
XVI. in November, 1779, show that the practiceof condemning prizes of war while lying in neutral ports has
prevailed in-England, and has been adopted in France.
The objections to this practice may perhaps b'e sufficient
to induce nations to change it by common consent, but
until they change it the practice must be submitted to,
and the sentence of condemnation passed under such circumstances will bind-the property, unless the legislature
of thecountry in which the capturedvessel may be claimed, or the law of nations, shall otherwise direct.
The sovereign whose officer has in his name captured
a vessel as prize of war, remains in possession of that
vessel, and has full power oier her, so long as she is in
a situation in which that possession cannot be rightfully
divested. The fact whether she is an enemy vesset or
not ought however to be judicially inquired into and decided, ani therefore the property In a neutral captured
as an enemy is never changed until sentence of condemnation has passed; and the practice of nations reqtures
that the vessel shall be in a place of safety before such
sentepce can be rendered. In the port of a neutral she
is in a place of safety, and the possession of the captor
cannot be lawfully divested, because ilie neutral "sovereign, by himself or by his courts, can take no cognizance of the question of prize or no prize. .Thisplsition is not intended to apply to the case of a sovereign
bound by particular treaties to one of the belligerents;
it is intended to apply only to those neutrals who are free
to act according to the general law of nations. In such
case theneutral sovereign cannot wrest from the possession of the captor a prize of war brought into his ports,
A vessel captured as prize of war is then, while Jying
iii the port of a neutral, still in the possession of the soveVroL. IV.

Pr

OTOras

GusstE.

296
rUDSONA&D
orHERS

SUPREME COURT U. $

Teign of the captor, and that possession cannot he rightfully divested.

GuESTIER.

is objected that his courts can take no jurisdiction
of a vesselunder such circumstances, because they cannot enforce a sentence of restitution.

SIt

But it is' to be rdccllected that the possession of the
captor is in principle the libssession of his sovereign; he
is commissioned to seize in the name of the sovereign,
and is as much an officer appointed for that purpose, as
one who irL the body of a county serves a civil process.
lIe is'under the controul and direction of the sovereign,
and must be considered as ready to obey his commands
legally communicated through his courts.
It is true'that in point of fact cruisers are often commanded by men whodo not feel a due respect for the
laws, and who are not of sufficientresponsibility to compensate the injuries their improper conduct may occasion; but in principle they must be considered as officers
commissioned by their sovereign to make'a seizure in the
particular case, and to be ready to obey the legitimate
mandate of the sovereign directing a restitution
The
property therefore may be restored while lying in a neutral-port, and whether it may or 'may not be sold in the
neutralport, the condemnation without h sale may change
the property, if such condr ination be valid.
In cases of prize of war, then, the difficulty of execu-ling the sentence does not seem to afford any conclusive
argument against the jurisdiction of the court of the capto'r over a vessel in possession of the captor, but lying
in a neutral or friendly port.
Do the same principles ap Ay to a seizure made within
the territory of a state for the violation of its municipal
-laws?
In t.e solution of this question the court can derive
no aid from precedent. The case erhaps has only occurred ii the wars which have been carried on singe the
year 1793, and the court in deciding it finds' itself' re4uced to the necessity of reasoning from analogy,

FEBRUARY ISO&.

297

The seizure, it has been already observed, vests the HuDBor AND
OV.lan
possession in the sovereign of the captor, and subjects
the vessel to the jurisdiction of his courts. The vesscl, GUESrSu
possession, .wuymmJ
when carried into a foreign port, is still in tiis
and he is-as capable of restoring it if the offence should
n6t have been committed, as he is of restoring a neutral
vessel unjustly captured as an enemy. The sentence in
the one case maybe executed with as much facility as in
the other.
Pcssession of the re-s by the sovereign has been considered as giving the jurisdiction to his court; the particular mode of introducing the subject into the court, or, in
other ivords, of instituting the particular process which
is prelimainary to the sentence, is properly of municipal
re~ulation, uncontrouled by the law of nations, and therefore is not examinable by.a foreign tribunal. It would
seem then that the principles which have been stated as
applicable in this respect to a prize of war, may be applied to a vessel rightfully seized for violating the municipal laws of a nation, if the sovereign of the captor
possesses the same right to maintain his possession
against the claim of the original owner in the latter as in
the former'case. If, on a libel filed by the original
owner in the courts of the country into which the vessel
might be brought, the possession could be defended by
alleging that she was seized for the violation of a niunicipal law, and the right of the court to decide the cause
would be thereby defeated, then that possession would
seem to be stifficiently firm to maintain the jurisdiction
of the courts of the captor.
Upon this point much doubt has been entertained. It
is,
however, the opinion of a majority of the judges, tat
a possession thus lawfully acquired under the authority
of a sovereign state could not be. divested by the tribunals of that country into whose ports the captured vessel
was brought; at least that it could not be divested un-.
less there should be such obvious delpy in proceeding to
a condemnation as would justify the opinion that no sch
measure was intended, and thus convert the seizure into
a trespass.
. The judgment ot the circuit court is- to be reversed.

HUDSON AND
OTHERS

V.

GuEsI.IEa,

298
SUPREME COURT U. S.
CHASE and LIVINGSTON, Justices, dissented from the

opinion of the court in these cases, because the vessel,

which was seized for the violation of a French arrete or
regulation, was not brought itto any port of
France -for trial, but was Voluntarily carried by the captain of -the privateer to St. Jago de Cuba, a Spanish
port, and .while lying there was, with her cargo, condemned'as forfeited by a French tribunal sitting at Guadatoup.

Smunicipal

JOHNSON, J. I concur in the reversal of the decision
in the-court below; but on different grounds from those,
which influence the opinion of my brethren. I had occasior in the case of TheSarah to express my ideas on'
most-of-the points arising in this case, and to that opinion
I refer for the reasons of my present conclusion.
T6 me it appeirs immaterial whether the capture was
made in exercise of municipal or belligerent rights, br
whether"Within the jurisdictional limits of France, whee
she is- supreme, or beyond those limits and upon the
high-seas, where her authority is concurrent with thatdf
every other nation. ' We find the property in possession
of the captor, underauthority derived from his sovereign,
whose conduct cannot be submitted to our jurisdiction'.
T-he modern practice of natjons sa'ncti6ns the co&idemnation of vessels lying in a foreign'port, and that
practice is not inconsistent with.principle,.
The plaintiff below has lost ill remedy at law, 'ahd
must look elsewhere for redress ;f he has sustained an
injury,,
-V-Note. The' cases of-Palmer and Higgind v.
Dtitilh,- ahzd Hargous t. The BrigCeees, being imp&.
fectly stated,it nbt being:ascertained'ohether the sefure
was within or 'without the teiritorialjuisdicti n of St.
Liomingo, 'were'remandedforfur'tierproceedings.

