SUPREME COURT U. S.
'T2UNiITED
STATPS

THE UNITED STATES v. WILLINGS AND
FRANCIS.

V.

WILLINGS

& FRANCIS.

An Ameilcan

THIS was an action of debt brought originally in the

registered
vessel,
in part district court of the United States for the district of

transferredby Pennsylvania, for the penalty of a bond dated November
parol while at 16th, 1802, conditioned to pay to the collector of the
sea to .an A- customs " the sum of 7,720 dollars and 41 cents, oR the
merican citizep, and re- amount of the duties to be ascertained as due and arising
sold to her on'certain, goods," &c. "entered by the above bounden

original own- Willings and Francis, as imported in the ship 1f"issouri,
ir on her re- from Canton, as per entry dated 16th November, 1802."
turn into ftort,
before heren-

try, does not,
The pleading,.which ended inia generat aemurrer to
by ihat ope. the .murrejoinder, brought into view the question, whea
r"
h
e
lose .erthe ship Afissour , a h

ration,

her privileges
as ran Ameri- entry

can bottom,
nor become

subject to fo.
reign duties.

at the time of her arivl.

n

from Canton, was entitled to the privileges of a
registered ship of the United States; for if she was, the
suar mentionid in the condition of the bond (which had
been calculated as, If she had been a foreign bottom)
was too large by the sum of 702 dollars and 5 cents.
The facts upon. which this question arose, appear, by
the record, to be as follows:

The ship Missouri, when she sailed from Philadelphia for Canton, was a duly registered ship of the United States, owned wholly by Willings & Francis, citizens
of the United States. While at sea, and *whilethe register of the ship was on board in possession of the master, she was in part sold by Willings and Francis, in
Philadelphia, to Y. G. Koch and others, citizens of the
United States, on t&e 12th of February, 1801, but was
not then registered anew by her former name, nor was
there an instrument in writing, in the npture of 'abill of
sale, reciting at length the certificate of registry. On
thb 15th of November, 1802, after the arrival of the ship
at Philadelphia, and before any report or entry, 1och and
others, the'vendees, made aparolresaleof their part of
the ship to W lfings and Francis,whereby the whole was
revested in them. Afterwards, on the same 15th of
November, (it being th' day of her arrival,) the register

FEBRUARY, 1807'.

49

was del'vered up by the master of the ship to -the col- TazUzitTuD
lector of the port of Philaclelphia, aud-the vessel duly STTXZ
reported and entered; and T. W. Francis, one of the V1,JNOs
part owners, resident at that port, upon the entry of the . uFMAncxs.
ship, offeired to mike oath that the register contained
the names of all the persons who wert then owners of
the ship ; that since the granting of the register, the ship
had been in part sold by W. and F. to Koch and others,
who had resold the same to W. and F. and that no'foreigner had an" share or interest in the ship. On the
22d of December, 1802, W. and F. niade a bill of sald
to Koch and others, reciting the, register at length in due
66rm of law, whereupon the ship "wasregistered aneivby
her former name,..as'the properLy of WMllingq and Francia, and Koch and.others,asjoint owners. ,On the 7th of
January, 1803; Koch and others, by.a bill of sale reciting
the register at length, in due form of law, resold and reconveyed their part of the ship to WMillings and Francisj
whereupon theregister was delivered.up, and the ship registered anew by her former name, as the -property of W.
and F.
By the t4th section of the act of congress of SIst December, 1792, vol. 2. P. 146. 147. it isenacted,
" That when any ship or vessel'which shall have been
registered pursuant to this act, or the ,aet hereby in part
repe'aled, sjWdlin 'Ahole orin part be'sold or transferred
to a citizen, or citizens of the United States, or shall be
altered in form or burthen"' &c. "in evory such case the
said ship or vessel shall be registered anew, by her for.
mername, according to the directions herein before contained, (otherwise she shallceaseto te deemed a ship or
vessel of the United States,) and herformer certificateof
registry shall be delivered up to the collector, to whom
-applicationfor such new registry shall be made, at the
time that the same shall be made."
"And in every such case of-sale or transfer, theie shall
be some instrument of writing, in the nature of a bill of
sale,. which shall recite at length the said certificate;
otherwise the said ship or vessel shall be.incapable of
being so registered anew. And in every case in which a
ship or vessel is hereby required to be registered anew,
if she shall not be'so registered anew, she shrill not be entitled to any of the privileges or benefits of a ship or yes-

50

SUPREME COURT U. S.

TimUNTZE sel of the United States. -And further, if her said Io ,
STATEIS
mei certificate, of registry shall not be delivered up as
WILL:ING3 aforesaid, exceptthe same may have been Iost," &c. tli
& FUAIANC.
owner or owners of such ship or vessel shall forfeit and
O
pay the sum of live hundred dollars, to be recovered with
costs of suit."
And by the lirth section it is enacted,
'That upon the entry of every ship or vessel of the
United States from any foreign part or place, if the same
shall be at the port or place at which the owner or any
of the pavtowners reside, such owneror part ownershall
mak'e oath or affirmation that the register of auch'ship o'
vessel contains the name or names of all the persons who
are then owners of the said ship or vessel ; or if' any
partof buch ship or vessel has been gold or transferred
since the granting of such register, that such is the case,
and that no foreign subject or citizen hath, to the best of
his knowledge and belief,' any share, by way of trust,
confidence, or otherwise, in such ship or vessel."
'I P.nd if,the owner," &c. "shall refuse to swear or
affirm as aforesaid, such ship or vessel shall 'not be entitled to the privileges of a ship. or vessel of the United
States."
The judgment of the districtcourt, upon the demtirrer, was in favour of the United States, but it was reversed upon a writ of error in the circuit court, and the
United States brought the case up, by writ of error, to
this court
.Rodney, Attorney General, for the plaintiffs in errov,
'Cited 4 Dal. 28. Priestmanv. United States, and I
Pos. and Pul. 263. 267. 'to show the great, degree of
strictness with which the revenue laws -had been construed, both in this country and England.
He contended that the word 1 when," (in the 14th
section of the act,) means at that time, viz. when the ship
shall be sold, she shall be registered anew. She was sold.
on thel'"2th of February, 1801, and'ought-shcn to have
been re8istered anew, but was not. The consequence, ac-

REB.RUARY, IMr.

51

oQring.toide.ae.ia, that from that time she ceased to TnzUnt*V
b-. deempcd a ship or vessel of the United States.

The*want ef a new register did not annul the sale;
Br was it vacated by the want of an instrument of writing in the nature of a bill of sale, reciting at length the
certificate of registry. But the want of such an instru-

inent was a bar to the obtaining a new register, and a sale
without a new register causes a forfeiture of all her privileges as aship or vessel of the United States.
The impossibility of delivering up.the old register
while it was at sea, so as to obtain a new register, is no
vexcuse for the defendant's neglect to comply with that
part-of the act which requires.an instrument in writing,
in the nature of a bill of sale, which shall recite at length
the certificate of the registry; because the registry.is
a matter of record, and d copy might have been had to
insert in the bill of sale. 3 T. R. 406. Rolstbn v. Ribbert.
Lewis, contra.

-The letter and the spirit of the 6ctare in favour'of
the defendants. It is a general rule of law that everyact which creates a penalty or forfeiture, is to be construed strictly against the United States.
The forfeiture of the privileges of a ship of the United States is a very heavy penalty, and although this penalty it inserted in a revenue law, yet that can make no
difference in the rule of construction.
The constructon contended for'by the United States
would put it in the-power of the owner of the vessel to
subject the owner of thegoods to this penalty without any
fault of his own. This could not have been the intention
of the legislature in the case of a sale from one citizen of
the United States to another, when they have taken care
in the 16th section to provide, that where there are several
citizens of the United States part owners of a vessel, and
one of them sells his shafe to an alien, it shall not forfeit
the shares of the.other citizens of the United States, who
were ignorant-of such transfer.

STA.9X

V.
YZLLZt:Ga

FRANCS

SUPREME COURT U, S.
YZIUNZTt!)
STA.TZS
WILLINGS

& FRA.cis.

The act for registdring vcssels was intended to pro.

tect American ship owners and American navigation, by
giving them-exclusive privileges. The true construction,
therefore, of the act must be that which will bs; carry

the intention into effect. But if the opposite cqnstruction prdvail, no person will dare to freight the vessel, or
"to become a part owner, lest he subject himself to the
caprice of the other .ownqrs, and after calculating the
probable event of his adventure ujionthe expectation of
.paying only dopestb d.utjes, he find himself defeated by
an unforeseen imposition of foreign duties, to the utter
ruin of.his enterprize.

But the great question is, when is she to be registered,
anew? The words of the act-are, k"Thatwhenlany ship ,"
" shall be sold," " in every such case. the said ship'.
"shall be registered'anew,". " andherformer certificate
of registry shall be delivered up to the collector, to whom
aplicalion for such new registry shall be made, at the
time that th.e same shall be made." "And in every suc/
case of sale or transfer, there shall be some instrument
of writing, in the nature of.a bill of sale, which shall recite at length .the said certificate, otherwise the said ship
or vessel shall be incapable of being s6registered anew.
'6.ndin every case in which a ship or vessel is %hereby
required to be registered anew, if she shall notbeso registered anew) she sh~l .gt be entitled to any of the pri.
vileges or bdliefits of a shii or vessel of the United
States."
The whble tenor of this section shows that she is not
to be registered anew umtilher return. The law requires
that the register should be on board the ship while at
se->, and no new register can be granted until the old one
is delivered up, which cannot be until the vesgel retlirns
to port. The only effect of the want of a bill of sale' in
writing is to prevent the issuing of a new register; until, therefore, a new register can be applied for, and the,
-old register given up, no bill of sale in writing is te,
cessary.

The only use of a bill of sale in writing, and of the
oath required by the 17th section, is to ascertain, at the,
time of entry., whether any, fpreisp. ami.ur.itereted, go

FEBRUARY," I8OV.

58

as to give the exclusive privileges to American citizens TuntUTnaD
anly. While the vessel is at sea there is no use in giving STaTZS
new evidence of her American character. It is only at wv'LX);G
her. return and entry that it becomes necessary to dis- & FaMcI
criminate.
.A.bill of sale in writing is necessary, but is not of itself sufficient to obtain a new register. It must also be
accompanied by an actual delivering up of the old register; -and until the latter can be done, the former is
useless.

The law did not intend to prevent the sale of a vessel
at sea, and as thf transfer cannot be complete until her
return, it is not necessary that even the bill of sale in
writing should be made until her return. Indeed, the
aet, by requiring that the certificate of regiry should
be recited at length in the bill of sale' and by requiring
also that the certificate itself should remain on board the
vessel while at sea, strongly implies that the bill of sale
inwriting can be made only while the vessel is in port.
Both the ale and resale by parol, are admitted by the
pleadings to be valid and effectual in passing and repassing the property, so.that Willings and Francis, at the
time of the entry of the ship, could safely take the oath
requiredhythe 17th section; and itis evident that thatoath
contains an averment of all the facts necessary to entitle
the ship to'the privileges of a vessel of the United
States, at the time of entry, if she had been before. duly
registered as such. This is apparent by comparing the
17th sectioii with the 1st, which -declares that vessels
registered pursuant to the act shall be entitled to the pri-.
vileges of vessels of the United States, so long as they
shall continue to be wholly owned and commanded by
citizens of the United States.
The oath in the 17th section is, that the register contains the names of all the persons who are then owners
of the ship ; or, if any part has been sold or transferred
since the granting the register, that such is the case ; and
that no foreign -subject or citizen hath, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, any share, by-way of trust, confidence, or otherwise, in such ship or vessel. And the
section provides, that if the owner shall refuse to take

S4
TX31U1zw1T

V.~s

SUPREME COURT U. S.

queh,6ath, the Vesul shall not be entitld fo the privi

leges of a vessel of"the United States, which strongly

*W .LI0 implies that, if the ownei- does not refuse, but offers (as
:&FRANS Si in the present ci;se) to take the oath, the vessel shall be
-ft-' entitled to those privileges.

Again, the oath in the 17th section showlb that the
owner is not bound to give notice of the sale, till the ves,
sel has arrived and is about to be entered.
The whole argument on the part of the United Statce
is built upon a particular construction, or meaning, applied to the word "when," in the beginning of the 14th
section. It is said that " when" means, at that time.
But this is not the only meaning of the word. It is
often used for if, or in case. And in this sense it is used
in 'hat section; and in the same sentence the idea intended to be expressed by the word "w, hen" is repeated
and explained by the expression ." in every such case."
The words are not;" when any ship shall be sold," "she
shall be registeredoanew ;" but, " when any ship shall
be sold," "in every such case". "she shall be registered
anew," thereby excluding the idea that the registering
anew .was to be at the moment of sale, and negativing the
construction whichight otherwise be raised upon the
equivocal meaning of the word "when"
The 7th section of the act provides, that if the vessel
shall be transferred while at sea, the master shall, within
eIght -daysqfter his arrival .within any distrift of the
United States, deliver up the certificate of registry to
the collector, of such. district; and the 14th section
shows that no new register can be had until the old one
is delivered up. By the 1I th section, if the vessel shal
arrive in a district other than that in which the new owner
usual.ly resides, she may obtain a temporary register,
which. shall be given up 'oh her arrival at the port to
which she belongs. By ho clause of the act is it requirid-thatnotice of sale should be given to any officer of
government, until the vessel arrives in port, and is about
to be entered at the custom house.
The words of the 14th section are in the fitture tense.
If she shall not be registered anew, she shall cease to be
deemed a ship or vessel of the United States.

FEBRUARY, 1807.
-The whole tenor and spirit, of the act show that none TnuUzTzTn
of the forms are to be complied with while the vessel is STArms
V.
at sea.

WV1LLfIGS

& PaAsczs.

February 14.
MARSHALL,

Ch.

J.

delivered the opinion of the

court.*
The single question in this case is, whether an American registered vessel, in part transferred by parol wHile
at sea to an American citizen, and resold to the original
owners on ter return into port, before. hei entry, does by
that operation lose her privileges as an American bottom,
and become subject to foreign duties.
This question depends on the " act concerning the registering and recording of ships and vessels," and more
particularly on the 14th and 17th sections of that act.
In construing the 14th section, much depends on the
The
true legislative meaning of the word "when."
plaintiffs in error contend that it desirnatei the precise
time when a particular act must be performed in order to
save a forfeituie ; the defendants insist that it describes
'the occurrence which shall render that particular act necessary. That the tern may be used, and, either in law
or in common parlance, is frequently used in the one or
the other of these senses, cannot be controverted ; and,
of course, the context must decide in which sense it is
used in the law under consideration.
The particular act to be performed in order to save
the forfeiture of the American character, and the privileges attached to it, is the obtaining a new register ; and
the first inquiry is, whether this new r'egister must be
obtained at the time of transfer or at some other conve"ient time on the event of a transfer.
This would seem to the court scarcely to admit of a
doubt. It has been correctly argued that the precise
Present, Af"araic!l, Chief Justice ; 1fradingtov, .oh.rrn and
livington,Justices. . Vol. 1V.
it

6
TiUcUNtTzD

SUPREME COURT U. S.

time to register the vessel anew cannot be prestribed by

the word

when," because the direction does not folWILLiNGS low that word in the sentence io as to be limited by.it
FRANCZS. with respect to time.
It is not said that when a regis'tered
vessel shall be transferred or altered, she shall obtain a new register oi cease to bear America,' vessel, but
the continuity of the sentence is brokefi by intetposing
the words "iin every such cas
thereby clearly making
.the forfeiture to depend on the failure toregister din the
event. described, not on the failure to register at the preCise-time when the event described occdrs.
STATES

This observation also applies to a subsequent part of
the section, where the forfeiture is repeated, and depends
on t.he failuie to register, not on the failure to register at
the precise time of transfei.
But this construction, which is the fair and natural
exposition of the words themselves, is rendered still
more obviobusly necessary by the nature of the case, and
by the context.
, No man will contend that the transfer, or the change
.in a vessel, and the obtaining a new register, are to be
simultaneous. The one niust.precede the other, and unless the transfer, or the repairs and alterations of the
hulk or rigging are in all casesto be made in the office
from.ivhich the new register is to be obtained, a reasonable interval between these acts inust'be allowed.' This
r-asonable interval will depend on the nature of the case.
When must a new register be obtained for a vessel
which has been altered or partially transferred to a citizen .yhile.aisea I The act answers, at the tine of delivering up her .rmer certificate of registry. And when
can this foriner. certificate be delivered up? Certainly
not till the return of the vessel, fdr the certificate is a
paper necessary to the vessel, and is therefore always retained on board while at sea.
This construction is really so obvious And inevitable,
that the endeav6ur to make it more clear would Seem to
be a total misapplication of time.

FEBRUARY, 1807.

57

The question, at what time the new register'is to be T J: rrzN-r
obtained, and at what time the vessel shall be affected by STALrE3'
the failure to o6tain it, is susceptible of rather more. WZLLIN93
doubt. There is no impossibility in obtaining a new re.
FaLrs..
gister before eutrt, and the necessity of dding so musi
.
depend upon the words of the act, and upon the'nature
of the case.
.It is obvious that on her arrival in port the Missouri
was an American vessel, and her cargo, when impoited
into the tnited States, was liable t6 the duties iiposed
on American, not on foreign bottoms. This is the clear
consequence of- dstablishing that a n~w register was nbt
required before the arrival of the vessel.
If then the cargo whenimported was liable only to
the duties on goods imported in an American bottom, it
would certainly require plain words to charge them, on
any subsequent failure, with higher duties.
If ihaewords of the section be examined, they are, as
has been stated at the bar, prospective, not.retrospective.
They operate on future, not on past transactions. "The
vessel hdl be registered anew, (otherwise she phall cease%
to -be deemed a ship or vessel of the United States.")
'That is, she shall'cease after the lapse of the time when
she ought to have been registered anew. But before

that time had elapsed, she had as an American vessel
actually imported a cargo.whos6 liability-to -duties had
commenced.
So in the'subsequent clause s And in every, case in
which a ship or vessel is hereby required to be registere-d
an w, if she slall not be so registered anew$ she --shall
pot be entitled to any of the privileges or benefits bf a
ship,or essel ohthe United States." .That is, her future
earnings shall not be attended with the advantages annexed.to American bottoms.
This construction derives some corroboration from the
17th section. This section provides for the oath which
is to be taken by an owner on the entry of an American
vessel. "That upon the entry of every ship," &c.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rZzUrxnzn
If upon the entry the 4?vner shall refuse to take this
V, s
oath, the Vessel loses the privileges of an American botWZ;,LIz~os tom. If he takes it, and the oath discloses no fact which
a Pt.%Nczs: has already forfeited those privileges, she retains them.
'It

is observable, that in order to retain them she is not

required to take out a new register if an alienation has
been made, and this strengthens the idea that if such an
alienation be not in itself a forfeiture, a new register cannot be requisite so far as respects the voyage already
concludad.
In the case of alienation to a foreigner, the privileges
of an American bottom are ipsofacto forfeited; but in
ihe case of an alienation to a-citizen they-are not forfeited 'until after she ought to have been registered anew,
and, the oath which entitles her to enter as an Anierican,
bottom does not require such new register,
But-it has been argued that the omission to execute a
in itself a forbill of sale in writiog at the time of sale 'is
feiture of the American. character.
The words of.the act are, "And in every such case of
sale or frausfer," 8;c.
]7hese words attach to Ihe omission the penalty which
the lw annexes to it,.and no other can be inflicted. This
is not.that the vessel shall lose her American character,
but that she shall be. incapable of being registered anew.
The bill of sale, therefore, can only be required ivhcn
the new register ipto be obtained, and if it be then pro-.,
duced, the new register cannot be refaed,
An opinion ha alreadyhbeen indicated, that in the case
of a transfer or alienation at sea, a new register is iot necessary to protect from alien duties the vessel which artives, and the cargo which was actually importdd while
the old register was in full force. But it is the opinion
of the "court.that in 'the case under consideration no new
reister wag iequisife.
The new register must be in every thing but its date
a precise copy of the old.one. The oath to be adminis,
tered on tle entry could be truly apd fairly taken. The

FEBRUARY,. 1807.

59

names of all the persons who Were at the time owners of TlUnITED
the vessel were in the old register.' The intermediate STATES
V.,
alienation and repurchase of part of the vessel had work- w,LLIZZs

ed no forfeiture, and had created no necessity for a new &FnAzcs.
register. The parties to whom the alienation had been*
made, not having property in the vessel at the time of
entry, could not have taken the oath prescribed by law,
which is in the present tense, and refers to the actual
state of the property at the time of entry ; nor could a
new register haive issued to them, in order to be dei'ered up foi the purpose of making out another register for
the -originalowners, who had become the present owners,
without departing from the truth of the case, because the
register also speaks inthe present tense, and must recite
the names of those who are the real owners at its date.
Any niew register which could, have issued must have
been, except in date, a duplicate of the old one, and must
have been perfe&ly useless. Suppose the ship had been
altpred in a foreign port, but before her arrival and entry
ha4 resumed the form and dimensions tnentioned in her
old register, would it be pretended that a new register
was necessary'? What would such new register be but'
a copy of the old one ? It is believed that in such a case
it would not be suspected that any f6rfeiture of the old
register, or any necessity for a new one, wa produced,
and between tht two cases there.appears to be no difference made by the letter or the spirit of the act.
The court is, therefore, unanimously of opinion, that
the sentence of the circuit court be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

