SUPREME COURT U. S.

CqAPPZDELAINE ANlD
ANOTHER
V.
DECHENAUX.

CHAPPEDELAINE, Residuary Legitee,') Of CliArPauw
>.

AND

LAtNE

CLOSRIVIERRE, Adm'r de boijs non,. Complainants)
against

DECHIENAUX, Executor of Dum
IosSAY, Defendant.

If ani

account

stated bepleaded in bar to
a bill in .equity, such plea
wvill be sustained, except
SO far as the

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Georgia, in a suit in equity,

The bill states that the complainants' testator and the
defendant's testator, together with three others, viz.
Boisfeillet, Du Bignon, and GrandClosmesle,became joint
11
complainant purchasers of the islands of Sapelo, Blackbeard, 7eAV 1
shall show it and ha/f of St. Catharine, on the coast of Georgia;
to be errone- that Dumoussay was the actiihg partner, and kept all th,
arts
accounts, &c. That an account was stated and Vigned
by' the two testators, Chappedelaine and Dtmoussay,
on the, 30th of April, 1792, by which the former acknowledged a balance of 6671. 10s. 1 3-4d. due to the
latter ; but that the account was erroneous in sundry
items particularly set forth in the bill ; that there were
sundry debits which had accrued since that settlement,
and that Chappedelaine had been olliged by a suit in
equity to refund to Boisfeillet a large sum which
"Durnoussay bad overcharged him. That Dechenaux
was the executor of the estate of Chappedelaine as well
as of Dumoussay, and as executor of Chappedelaine
had defended the suit of Boisfeillet. The bill contains a prayer that the defendant may account touching all monies due on rectifying the errors ; and for all
other sums due by Dumoussay in his life-time, not
credited nor accounted for, or which have come to the
hands of the defendant, and that he pay over sfich ba.
lance as shall appear on settlement of all accounts, and
for general relief. The defendant pleaded the settled
account in bar of so much of the'bill as sought to open
the account, and by answer denied all fraud and error.

FEBRUARY, 1808

Upoh hearing, the court below ordered a reference
co auditors, with directions "to make a general statement of accounts between the parties, rejecting any erroneous charges- which may appear in their. settlement,
and adding such as may have been omitted."
The auditors, on. the 23d of April, 1805, instead of
stating an account, reported that they found " a balance
due from the defendant to the complainants, including
interest upon the liquidated account up to this date,
fifteen thousand five hundred and eighty-six dollars and
twenty-two cents." They stated that they, had not taken
into consideration a claim of the complain'ants-of 1,000!.
wvhich the estate of Chappedelaine was condemned to
pay to Boisfeillet by decree of the court, nor their claim
for indemnity for damages said to have been sustained
by sale of lands, conceiving thosd claims not submitted
to them, but reserved for the decision of the court.
Exceptions being taken to this report, the court ordered the auditors to " iake a stateinent showing the
items of the general account, which they rejected, in
whole or. in part, and the reasons of their rejections,
and also such items as were added as omiksions, and
their refisons for so doing."
In obedience to this order, the auditors made an explanatory report, whereupon the court decreed that 6041.
6s. and 5791. 8s. id. be -deducted from the liquidated
account of the 30th of April, 1792 ; that interest be allowed on the balance at eight per cent from that date,
and that the defendant pay out of the assets that balance
and interest, and the further sum of 3,823 dollars, being
the amount stated by the auditors as having accrued
since the 30th of April, 1792, and costs.
-

The errors assigned in the record were,
1. That the bill was insufficient in law.

2. That the couft had not jurisdiction, because, although the bill states the complainants to be French citizens, and the defendant a citizen of Georgia, yet the
two testators were citizens of Georgia. -

CHAPPED

A"
L'N
ANOTHEI|
V.
DC I.ZAu

UPREME COURT V. S
'CHAP?.ID
tLAINZ AND

A.OTHER

3. That I. Trubert, who is stated in the answer to
be. residuary legatee of Dumoussay, was not maden
party; and because the other legatees were not made

T3rcxzxAUX. parties.
4. That the stated account has been partially opened,
and abatements made to the injury of the legatee.
5, That the exceptions to the report of the auditors
ought to have been sustained.

P. B. Key, for the defendant, on opening the ques.tion ofjurisdiction, was stopped by the court.
MARSHIALL, Ch. J. The present impression of the
court is, that the case is clearly within the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States. The plaintiffs are
aliens, and although they sue as trustees, yet they are
entitled to sue in the circuit court.'

Winder, 'for the comnplainants.
As to tne allegation of want of parties, it can only be
noticed on bing pleaded. The defendant cannot now
take adi antage of it.
We are not, in examining the account, confined to
the errors stated in the bill.' But if the general nature
.of the errors is stated'in the bill, it is sufficient ; and if
such errors are proved, it is sufficient to set'-side the
account as a bar, and.to have it referred to auditors ;
who are not confined to the precise errors alleged in'the
bill.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. said he understood the' practice
in cliancery to be, that the court will notice only those
errors in the report of the auditors which appear upon
the face of the report, or those expressly set down in
the exceptions ; and then the evidence on which the
items were allowed, must appear on the record.

-Harperand P. B. Key, for the defendant, contended,
That an account stated and settled by' the parties was
conclusive, unless ihe party complaining can show fkaud

FEBRUARY, 1808.

309

or error; and upon him lies the burden of proof. That

CHPPrDe.

when a defendant relies upon an account stated, he shall LAiJ- ^:m
"&
NOE
never be compelled to go into a geqeral account. The
settled account can only be opened to the extent of tile DzcnE'-VAUX

items charged as erroneous. 2 Atk. 1. Summer v. Thorpe.
2 Fez. 565. Pitt v. Cholmondely.

Mfarch 4.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court, as follows:

The bill in this case is brought to set aside a stated
account which was signed by Dumoussay and Chappedelaine, in July, 1792, on the suggestion 'of fraud on
the part of Dumoussay ; or, if it be not set aside, to
correct its errors, and to obtain a settlement of transactions subsequent to that account.
The stated account is pleaded in bar ot so much of
the bill as requires that the subject should again be
opened, and the particular errors assigned, uith the
exception of one in the addition, are denied in the answer.
-That the plea.in bar must be sustained, except so far
as it may be in the power of the representatives of Chappedelaine to show clearly that errors have been committed, is a proposition .about which no member of the
court has doubted for an instant. No practice could
be more dangerous than that of opening accounts which
the parties themselves have adjusted, on suggestion
supported by doubtful or by only probable testimony.
But if palpable errors be shown, errors which cannot
be misunderstood, the settlement must so far be considered as made upon absolute mistake or imposition,
and ought not to be obligatory on the injured party or
his representatives, because such items cannot be supposed to have received his assent. The whole labour
of proof lies upon the party objecting to the account,
and errors which~le does not plainly establish cannot be
supposed to exist. Upon this principle, the report of
the auditors in this case, and the exceptions to that re-

io
CHAPPErn-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

port, so far as respects the stated account, are to be

considered.

LAINLAND
ANOTHER

V.

D. .CzfA£ux.

The first exception relates only to the manner in which

~ the auditors understood the order referring the accounts
to them, and need not be considered, since the sole
inquiry will be, whether they have in fact made any
deduction from the stated account which was not warranted by the interlocutory order, an order mtide on the
principles which this court has already declared to be
correct.
The second exception refers to the particular deductions m de by the auditors. The fist is, that the item
ip the tted account of 6041. Gs. 5d. is reduced to
333/. 0s. 8d.

The stated account between the parties, marked, in
the proceedings as the exhibit A, contains this item, and
states it to beone-fifth of the.expenses for disbursements on the island of Sapelo, which was thejoint property of a-company consisting of five, of which Dumoussay and Chappedelaine were partners. The items
wbhich composed this general account are all contained
in exhibit F, gtated by Dumoussay on the 3d of May,
1792, and assented to' by Chappelelaine on the 23d of
July, 1792, when the stated, account was signed, T'he
total of those disbuI'sements is 4,224!. 3s. 8 1-2d. and
the balance upon the account is 3,0211. 12s. 1.1-2d. the
fifth of which is 6041. '6s.k 5d.
In their explanatory report the auditors say that thley
took as the basis of this reduction an account settled by
nudit'rs in a suit decided in the circuit court'of Gcorgia,
which.was instituted by Boisfeillet, 9ne of the absent
partners, against Dechenaux, who was executor both of"
Dtimoussay and Chappedejaine. The auditors in. that
case were examined, and they depose that their cotrections were made on the proof of double entries, falge
charges, omissions acknowledged by the executor of
Duinussay, and charges not proper to be made against
Boisfeillet.
This tdstimony would of its'elf be sufficient to convince the court that injtkstice was done in the settlement

FEBRUARY, 1808.
of'July, 1792, but would not ihow explicitly the amount CHAirrz.
of that injustice, and enable them to say what deduc- LA1. Ali])
.
tions from that settlement ought to be allowed, because,
as was wdll observed by the, counsel for Dechenalux, DrcittXXLA
items mighL 6(- properly chargeable to Chappedelaine, -'

of which "loisfeilht ought not to bear a part.
The court therefore sought. .in the documents connected with the report, for that more explicit information,
Upon looking into the exhibit F, there are, upon tha
face of the paper, obvious errors, which demonstrate
the incorrectness of that statement, and the excessive
inattention of Chappedelhine.
The first item on the debit side of this exhibit, is the
sum of 3,571. 3s. 8 i-2d. disbursed for Sapelo. The
funds for this disbursement were in part in the hands of

Dumoussay, as the remnant of advances previously
made by the partners. To this remnant he states himself to harve added 2,368. 12s. 0 1-2d. from his private
funds. On this advance made by himself in Georgia,
he charges the company 13 per cent, amounting to 3541.
on account of the difference of exchange between mo-

ney in France and in Georgia, or as he expresses it, for
exchange, freight and insurance.
This eiarge has been rejected in the accounts of all
the partners for many obvious reasons. It is sufficient
to observe, that as this money was advanced in Georgia by Dimoussay, and repaid to him in Georgia by
the partners, there was as much reason for making these
charges, on the repayment, as on the original advance ;
and with respect to Chappedelaine, it is still more inadmissible, because he had previously adyanced bis
portion of this nioney to Dumoussay, and had allowed
him 15 per cent f6r these charges, in a deduction from
that advance, so that this charge, with respect to Chappedelaine, is double.
The third iteinr in this exhibit is a charge of 2991. as
one year's interest.on 2,3681. 12s. 0 1-2d.

more than dofible the real amount of interest.
Vol. IV

R

This i&

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CVPPSDE6A INE AN

DzcHENAUX.

*terize

There is hlso in the credit side of the accdunt, ha
error of 100/.'in the addition. The errors apparent on
the face of the exhibit F, amount to 611/. and these
errors are of such a. description as strongly to characthe sttted azcount of July, 1792.
In the account stated by the auditors, there are omissions of monies received by Dumoussay, and admitted
to be chargealde to h;-,' in tHis account with the company, amounting to 189. 10s. 10d.
The account containing these incontestible errors was
submitted to auditors, and still further reduced by
them. Several of the small errors which the), have detected are perceived, but' the whole cannot be traced
by this court, without engaging in the laborious task of
auditors, which is incompatible with their duties. To
that accoumt the executor of Dumoussay, who was also
the executor of Chappedelaine, was a party, and had a
right, with respect to Boisfeillet, to rely upon the stated
account of July, 1792, signed by Chappedelaine, because
Chapped laine was the attorney in fact of Boisfeillet, and
because Boisfeillet had sanctioned that settlement, and
had assumed-the payment of his part. Yet in that case the
deductions from that account were made which the auditors in this case have taken as the basis of their settlement,
and those deductions were m~ade in cousequence of doubte entries, false charges, and charges not admissible
against 13oisfeillet.
The great diificulty in admitting such an account
under such circumstances, consists in the uncertainty'of
the anidunt of those charges which were rejected as
being inapplicable to Boisfeillet. This difficulty is removed, in a great measure, by inspecting the repor. in
the. present case.: In that report, the auditors take up
the itmms which were rejected* on this principle, and
charge -them to Chappedelaine; so that, in truth, the
alterations made in this iteni are all founded on errors
which the auditors have corrected.
The second iem of .this exception is, that the atiditors reduced the sum of 336/. 16s. ad. admitted ilthe
stated account, ai being one-fourth of the purchase and
expense of Jekyl to 611/. 9s. 6d.making a differe:nce of
251. 7s. 2d.

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

SIS

This item in the exhibit A, which is the stated acGaunt, is the result of the exhibit G, which is the ac-

oIIAPVP,;Z-

""z -%r.D.

410TUH
count of Jekyl, as settled between Dumoussay and
*
Chappedelaine. There is an obvious error of 41. 19s. Dzurm:Aw.
10d. in the division, of 3L. 10s. in the hire of negrotis,
and the residue of the sum deducted is on account 6f
the same ch:rges on the monies advanced for J ekyl,
which were made on the monies advanced for Sapelo,
and which are rejected for the same reasons which were
assigned for their rejection in that item of the account.

The auditors also reduced the sum of 990/. 3s. Id.
assumed by Chappedelaine for Boisfeillet, to the sum
of 4101. making a difference of 5801. 3s. ld. Nothiug.
can be more obvious than the propriety of this 'redtiction. Dumoussay charges Chappedelaine with the debt
of Boisfeillet, amounting, as he says, to 9901. 3. Id.
which Chappedelaine assumes as the attorney of Boisfeillet. In a suit.to which the executor of Dumoussav
is a party, this debt appears to have been only 4101.
No man can hesitate to admit that Chappedelaine must
have credit with Dumoussay for the difference between
the sum alleged to be due, and the sum actually due
from Boisfeillet.
The auditors also struck out of the stated account
the sum of 5341. 9s. 4d. assumed by Chappedelaine
for one of the absent partners, that beig considered by
mistake as the share of that abwnt partner in the expenses of Sapelo, The sum actually due by that partner was afterwards paid by himselt to the executor of
Dumoussay. The court is satisfied, from the evidence,
that this payment was made to Dechenaux as the axecutor of Dumoussay. The assumpsit of Chappedclaina
was essentially as security for the absent partner, who
still remained a debtor; and when the principal did
himself pay what he owed to the original creditor, the
assumpsit of Chappedelaine was of no further obligatioti. Although this was not an error in the account
When settled, except so far as this charge exceeded the
sum with whieli the absent partner was really chaigeable, vet it becomes an item which can no longer be
retained as a chars-. against Chappedelaine, and in re-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

forming their accounts, it mst be excluded from
them.

CITAPPEDrEAINZ AND
ANOTH91L

Y.

DEcitzAtIx..

There is also added to the credits of Chappedelaine

" the sum of 26!. 18s. which the quditors state to be the
difference between the am6unt of a receipt given by
Dumoussay and the sum actually debited to him in the
accounts between the parties.
These several er'ors make up the sum of .1,4571. 8s.
4d. from whieh is to be deducted thp sum of 6671. I0s%
1 34d. admitted on the stated account to be due from
Chappedelaine to Dumoussay. -The balance standing
to the credit of Chappedelaine would be, on the 30th of
April, 1792, 7891. 18s. 2 1-4d.o
The auditors state this balance at 1,46. 10s. 7d.
But from this balance reported by the auditors is to be
taken the sum of S05l. Is. allowed by Chappedelaine
on the repayment in Georgia of money lent by him to
Dumoussay in France. , This -sumhas been disallowed
*by the auditors, but was allowed by the circuit court,
-and is allowed b" this court. This would reduce the
report of the auditors to 1,0301. I7Y. Id. exceeding the
balance which is here supposed) by the sum of 240/. 19s.

4 3-4d.
-The greatest part of this excess is produced by onethird of merchandize sold and not entered in the account, and by a credit for continuing interest up to tlhe
30th of April, 1792, on Chappedelaine's money in the
hands of Dumoussay, which credits had been omitted
in the stated account without any apparent reason, and
must therefore have been among the numerous inaccuracies of that account. The residue of this excess is
said by the atuditors to be produced by numerous minute
errors detected by a laborious investigation of all the
accounts betwein the parties. This court cannot pursue them in that investigation. But in a case so repletc
with errors, which mark excessive negligence on the
one side, and which can scarcely be ascribed to mistake on the other, the court is of opinion that the report
of the auditors stating that these 'corrections were made
dn the inspection -of the vouchers and entries which

FEBRUARY, 1805.

.315

were laid before them ought to be received, unless the CIrAwno.
person taking the exception had himself required the LZA~
u
testimony on any particular point to which he objected &NoTMIX
.to be submitted to the court, or had required a special DfaeirNAu..
statement from the auditors, exhibiting the reason.5 for ".-t-€.-.
their opinion on the particular noint.
The balance due to Chappedelaine on the 30th or
April, 1792, is so much of the loan made by. him to
Dumoussay in France, which remains Impaid. By the
contract between the parties, that loan was to carry an
interest of six per cent per annum until paid. the
court, therefore, .cannot.consider it as a claim on an unsettled account, or as carrying interest at the rate established in Georgia. It is still governed by the law of
the contract, and must carry interest at the rate'df six
per cnt per annum.
To the report, so far it respects the acqounts subsequent to the 30th of April, 1792, a general exception is
taken, which is sufficiently repelled by the answer of the
auditors. 'They say, if in the Qpinion of the defendavt
below the auditors admitted any charge against Dumoussay which was not sufficiently supported by testimony,
he ought to have obtained a special statement from the
auditors, or have made a special exception, which would
bring the testimony on the particular point before ihe.
court. The only objection which the court can notice,
is the allegation in the exception that the auditors have
proceeded on accounts rendered by Dechenaux, without
allowing him a credit which he claimed in those accounts.. That credit is the balance appearing to be due.
to Dumous sav by the stated account of July,. 1792.
But that balance was entirely changed. The item was
fully disproved by the testimdny laid before the auditors. - Dechenaux did not then withdtaw his account;,
and require the plaintiff below to support his claims by
other vouchers. It was clearly in the power of the
plaintiff to have' done this; for he might have forced
Dechenaux to produce -the entries and vouchers from
-which he had tade out fhe account exhibited by himself.
By leaving this account With the anditors without objection, he acquicsced in their considering as correct the
items it admitted.

316
CHAtPEI,Z.AZNF AND
AN6THER

v.
DEC-ENADx.

SUPREMt.-COURT Ti. S.

This bill was brought to correct the stated.account w
July, 1792, and to settle the accounts between the parties subsequent to that period.

The defendant exhibits

the accounts stubsequent to that period, but claims to
set against them the balance due to his testator under
the settlement of 1792. On those subsequent accounts,
that balance has no influence. By introducing it into
an account he was compellable to render, he cannot destroy the effect of that account, Had he intended to
rely on this circumstance, he ought 'to have .made the
point before the auditors, and thus have enabled the
plaintiff to take othermeasures t9 substantiate his claim.
The auditors say they "admitted the account presented
by the defendant ;" but this must be understood with
the exception of the.balance which he claimed under the
settlement of July, 1792. It does not appear, from
their report, that the claims of the plaintiff below rested on that account so far as it went; but it is probable
that further research was deemed unnelcessary. The
court cannot say that inthis the auditors erred.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, so far as
it accords with this opinion, and is reversed as to the
residue.

rFUNzTED

THE UNITED STATES v. MIDOVEL.

V-.

MIDOWELL.

In deciding
Whether the
ERROR .t6 the distiict court for the district of Kenmatter in dis- tuckv, in an action 'of d1ebt for tmcnfty thousanddollars,
-sus,
the p;enilty of an official bond given, by the defendant, as
cient to
rain the juris- marsh~l of that districtfor the faithful execution of the
diction of this duties of his office by Limself and his deputii:S. The de-'
court, it will
look to the feuidant pleaded performance generally. The United
sum due itpon States, -in their replication, assigned a special breach of
the condition the condiTiot' of the bond, in not-paying over to. the
*f ek' .,nd, United States the sumof three hundredandtwenty-eight
and not ti the..
penalty

