FEBRUARY, 1908,

YOUNG v. PRESTON.

YouZio
V.
PRZ.STO-Z.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co- If A. agree.
seal, to
lumbia, in"an action of assumpsit, brought by Preston undercertain
against Toung,2kainstdo
upon a quantum meiuit fo' work and work for B.
labour.

and does part,
but is pre.

•
At the.trial below, the defendant, Young,
Pfered in
evidence a sealed agreement between the parties, and
offered further evidence that the work aid labour, for
which this action was brought, were done In
"n casec
s
quenice of that agreement; and prayed the court to instruct the jury that if, from he evidence, they should
be of opinion that the said work and labour was done in
consequence of the sealed agreement, the action of
assumpsit would not lie; which instruction the court
refused to give, evidence having been offered to the
juiry that the plaintiff was prevented frori compleiing
the work mentioned in the agreement, by t e defendant,
who employed another person to. finish it.

But the court instructed the jury that ifj from the
evidence, they should be of opinion'thht the plaintiff
was prevented by the de-fendant from proceeding to
complete the said work, according to' the said agreement-in a reasonable time, then the pliiniff had a right
to recover, in this form of action, from the defendant,
as much money as the plaintiff 4Ieserve'd t'have for the
work done by him for the defendant) although the same
was -done in consequence of the said agreement, and
although the whole work mentioned in the said agteementwas not completed. To.which refusal and instruction the defendant excepted; 'and the judgment below
being against bim, he brought his Writ of error..
Upon the opening of the case, This Court, without
qrqwment, reversed the juzdgmient.
VoL IV.

fromfinishing
frente
by B.

it according
to contract i
A. cannot
maintain a
quant~ m ,neruit against B.
for the %yorl
otrmUedy, bt
mustsueupon
the sealed instrument.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Vou.rG

PRSTOW.

-the

On a subsequent day, C. Simms, one of the counsel
for the defendant in error, not having been presept at
opening of the case, .was permitted by the court to
cite authorities in support of the opinion of the court
below, and cited the following : Towers v. Barrett, 1
T. R. 133. where it was decided that assurnpsit for
money had and received will lie to recover money paid
on a contract which is put an end 6o, as where, either
by the terms of the contract it is left in the plaintiff's
power to rescind it by any act, and he does it; or
where the defendant assents to its being rescinded. In
that case, the counsel for the defendant-.admitted, that
when the party has done any thing to preclude himself
from going into the contract, then money had and received will lie. Buller, J. said " the defendant left it
in the. power of the plaintiff to put an end to the contract.
If the.'contract be open, the plaintiff's aemand is not
for th whole sum, but for damages arising out of that
contract."
So in Giles v. Edwards, 7 7. R. 18a. there wag a special contract between the plaintiff and the defendant,
which the defendant had prevented the plaintiff from
completing. The court 'was clearly of' opinion, that
", as by the defendant's defaultthe plaintiffs could not
pirform what they had undettaken to do, they had a
right to put an end to the whole contract, and recover
back the money the), had paid under it." So hi'ei,
Simmns contended,-that a's the defendant had prevented
the plaintiff from completing the contract, the plaintiff
liad. a right to put in end toit. If he had paid money
urider the contract, he, would have had a right to fecover it back ; butas instead of advancing money, he had
done work and labour, which could not be recovered
back in specie,. he had a right to repover its value.
So it I Powell on Contracts, 417." If he,- who is benefited hyauother's ful'filling his contract,.pr agreement,
is the occaiion why it is not carried into execution ; the
contract or agreement is thereby entirely dissolved, and
the party bound discharged from his-obligation."
But notwithstanding these authorities, The Cotrt adhered to their first -impression, some of the judges sdy-

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

241

ing, 'that the plaintiff had a dear right of action upon
the sealed instrument; he might aver in his declaration
that he had, in part, performed the work,* and was
ready to do the rest, but was prevented by the defendant.. And Whenever a man may bav. an action on
a sealed instrument, he is bound to resort to it.

Youino

TOM.
P XV.

Judgment reversed.

ROSE v. IHIMELY.

to.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the circuit It a claim
set up un.
court for the district of South Carolina, which reversed be
dr the senthat of the district judge, wh9 awarded restitution, to tence or con.
Rose the libellant, of certain goods, part of the cargo of demnation oF
acorei
foreign
the Americn .schoonerSarah.
court

-will

This vessel-after tradiiig with the brigands, or rebels examine into.
Qf St. Domingo, at several of their ports, sailed from tle ju diction or such

thence, with a cargo purchased the*e, for the United court; and if
States; andhadproceeded more than ten leagues from the thatcour can.
coast of St. Domingo, when she was arrested by a not, c--itFrench privateer, on the 23d of- February, 1804, car- e2
ntfYnth
ried into the Spanish port of Barracoa, in the island of exercise the
Cuba; and there, 'with her cargo sold by the captors, jurisdiction
on the. 18th of March, 1804, before condemnation, but *hich it has
ito
of sai,
a person
under authority,. as. it i-as said,
entence is to
pes n who styled assumed
. was
ofa
himself agent bf the government of St. Domingo, at St. be disregardJ7ago de Cuba. The.greater part of the cargo was pu:- eir but o "
chzsed by
Colt, the master of an American theion,.
vessel called the Ex&m ple, into which vessel the goods far as it da.
were clandestinely transferred from the Sarah, in the pends u on
night timiei, and brought into the port of Charleston, in nuni6P?
South Carolina, wheretheyweie followed by Rose, the /am:, oie
supercargo of the Sarah; who filed a libel against them, rycountry are
in behalf of the former'owners, complaining of the the excl|sive
of
ry sentence
unlawful seizure on the high seas, afidpraying lbrresto- Judges.
Eve.
ration -fthe goods : whereupon process was issued, and condemnation
by a compe.
tent cbtrt,

