SUPREME COURT V. S.

OI EALE v. LONG.

ONZALVV.

LoxG.

-

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.
If a bond
be executed lumbia, sitting. in Washington, in an action of debt up on
...
y f $ four joint and several bonds, signed ahid sealed by Maky
-to obtain an
from
appeal
the judgment
ofajustice of
-peace in Ma-

Sweeny as principal, and Williaa Oneale, I T. Frost,
sureties, conditioned that she.
Lund Washington Ans
atd
should prosecute her appeal upon four several judgments

rendered against her by ajustice of peace in Maryland.
gland, and William Oieale, the defendant below, .pleaded non esqt
ebondisre- factum, and upon the trial of that issue. took a bill of
jected by the exceptions, because the court below (two j'udges bnly
il
~jde
J ustice, and
iferwards, being present,, and divided in opiion) did not, at his
rithout the request, instruct the juryj " that if they should be saof tisfied by the evidence that the bonds were signvd, "
knowledge
0. the name••
or I. be in sealed and delivered by Mary Sweety as priacipal, and
terlined as a .. T. Frostand the defendant as her sltrties, and were
obliger who afterwards presented to C. C. (the juKcb who had
executes the rendered the judgments) for his approbaton and acbond, and thejustice then ceptance of the securities, and were by him refusedand
...

accepts it, it rejected and after such rejection were interlined, -withi void as to 0.out the license, privity and knowledge of the defendannt

by inserting the name of Lund Washington as a coobligQr, who on the succeeding day, without the privity,
knowledge and consent of the defeidant, signed, scaled and delivered the bonds, which were afterwarde
approved of by the justice, that then such interlineation
and execution of said bonds by Luhd Washington rendered them yoid as to the defendaht, and the plaintiff
cannot recover in this suit."
By the act of Marylana, 1791, c. 68. § 5. no execution upon a judgment of a -justice of peace shall be
stayed by an. appeal, unless the person appealing, or
some" other in. hid behalf, " shall, immediately upon

making" such appeal, -enter into bond, with sufficient
sureties,, such as the justice by whom judgment shall be
g'ven shall' approve of, in double the sum recovered,
wiih condition," &c.

FEBRUARY, I807.
P. B. Key, for the plaintiff in error, contended that
te deeds were void,
1st: .By reason of tie interlineation.
2d. By the rejection of ihem by the magistrate.
1. The alteration of the deeds by the interlineation
was in a matter essential ; it made them" the deeds of
four, wheii theywere only the deeds bf. three persons.
It is immaterial whether the alteration is for.the benefit of the obligor ; the only question, is, whether it
substantially vary the deeds. Esp. N. P. 223, 224.
Cro. Eliz. 626, 627; Markham v. Gonaston. Alfoore, 28.
p1. 89. Shep. Touch. 68.
2. After the rejection of the bonds by the justice,
they could never be set ul 3 again, without a new delivery by the defendant. 5 Co. 19. (b) Whep dale'Ws case.
The justice was substituted by the law for the obligee,
and his iejection is equally fatal as if the bonds had been
tendered to, and refused by the obligee himself. Shep.
Touchk. O. It might have been that the defendant held
a counter security, which he released upon the rejection
of the bond.'
Mrason, contra, contended$
That the interlineation was not material, and being
made by a third person 'Without the privity of the obligee,
did not vacate- the deeds, especially as it was for the
benefit of the -defendant. 11 Co. 27. Henry -Pigot's
ease. E p. N. P.'224. Shep. Touch. 68.
They Were not less the dedds of the defendant, because
they became also the deeds of another. This is in the
nature of a judicial proceeding, and'not a mere matter of
contract between man and man. It is a. security required by law ina civil action. It does not appear that
the defendant was present when the bonds were rejected.
It is to be presumed that he entrusted M~rrs. Sweeny
the principal, to deliver them for him, and she had a

O:ZAiz
V.
Logo.

02

SUPREME COURT U. 5'

right to redeliver them in his. name after the interlinea-

ONPALE
V.

tion.

LoNG.

If the defendant had given up any counter sectirity,
it was his own folly so to do until his name had been
erased from the bonds.
February 14.
MARSHIALL,

Ch. .J. delivered the opinion of the

coprt, that there was error in this, that the court below
did not instruct the jury as prayed 'by the defendant.
He observed, that the judges did not all agree upon the
same" grounds, some being of opinion that the bonds
were void, by reason of the interlineation, and others
that they were vacated by the rejection of them by the
magistrate, -and could not be set up again without a new
.delivery.

judgment reversed, vith costs.

v. CARRINGTON
.V.AND SMITH AND OTHERS
OTHERS.

OTHRS

CARRINOTON AND
OTHERS.

A xitess-

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of

inter-sted to Rhode-Island.
diminish cer-"

tain admitted
This was an action of assumpsit brought by he plainitems in the
plaintiff's ac. tip in error, subjects of Haniburgh, to recover the
count, is still balance due upon an account current, the debit side of
a competent which consisted principally of the following charges,
witness- to.

diiproveother Viz, insurance made in Hamburgh on the defendants'
ship Abi'ail, 'frpi"the United States to Hamburgh, and
items.
The defen- on the-ship ahd cargo from -iamburgh to the Havanhf,
'dan having
rea- a letter an4An an intended voyage #ack from the Havanna to
from the
Hamburgh; advances made to the defendants to make
plaintifl"s a, up a'cargo to the Havanna; bills of exchange accepted
gent,' in an- a pd
cash advanced, and commissions, chargesr
;i.
aet- and
ter aom
ter from him.i and interest.

