FEBRUARY,. 1807.

29

and proctedsregularly, is not a rongdoer, The actis
ndt tortious. The order of restoration proves that the
property was neutral, not that it was taken without probable cause. Indeed, the decree of the court of appeals
is in this-respect in favour bf the captors, since it does
not award damaged for the capture and detention, nor
give costs in the suit below.

Jznmzzes

If we pass by the decree, and examine the testimony
on which it was founded, we cannot hesitatd to admit
that there was justifiable cause to seize and libel the
vessel
Upon the whole case then, the court is unaninmously
of opinion that the decree of the circuit court ought to be
afirmed.
Sentence affirmed.

RHINELANDER v. THE INSURANCE COMPAXY RUU,ELA1.-

OF PENN4SYLVANIA.

Dz

v*

I,. Co. oF
PZZ.Z1SYLVA22A.

THIS was a case certified from the circuit c'ourt for
The district of-Pennsylvania, in which the opinions of
the judges of that court were opposed to each other
upon the question, whether the plaintiff was entitled to
recover upon a case stited, the materiar facts of which
were as follow:

A capt
of a r.eutrd
a prize by 2
tote lossndl
is a

entitles the
insured to

abandon.

The defendants insured 12,500 dollars, on thefrglt
of the plaintiff's Americon ship The-ifanhattan, which
had been chartered by ,Afhturn & Champlin, for a
voyage from N42Tqrh to Batavia, and bach to NewTor.k. The freight was valued in thcpolic at 50,000
dollars. -The charter-party contained a covenant that
if any dispute should arLe between the phint!! and
Minturn & C/t'.tnizmn respecting the freight, the.cargo
should not be deiained by the plaintifF,provided they

The state of

the
loss at th
time cf t e
o.e to abanfi'xe
the

rights of the
reso.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
should give good security to abide by the. award of arbitrators, who. were to be appointed to settle such disW , Co. op pute. On her homeward Voyage, on the 10th ofFebruary
PZNNSYLVA.
1805, the ship was taken and detained on the high seat
NIXA.
by. a British armed. vessel, and the second mate and
2t'of the seamen taken out, and two British oflicers
and 15 seamen put on board, with orders to take her
into a British port. The second mate was put on board
another vessel, and arrived in New-York on the 26th
of February, when he gave the above information to
tje plaintiff, who, on the 28th of February, communicated it by his letter of abandonment of that date, to
the "defendants.
RHttNLAlN.
DER

The Manhattan, with her cargo was carried into
Bermuda on the'12th of Febrtary, and libelled as prize
of war. On the 20th of April, 1805, both vessel and
cargo were acquitted.

From this sentence, so far as it

respeuted the cargo only, an appeal was prayed, which
does Vot appear to have been decided ; but on the 8th

of May the cargo was delivered to its owners, on their
giving secu'ity, and on the 8th of Jbt, the vessel and
cargo drrivcd in New-York; but bWfore their arrival,
the defe dants having refused to give counter security,
so as to relieve tie. owners of the cargo from the effect
of the security which they had given upon getting possession of their goods, the plaintiff, on the 6th of June,
180-, after the vessel was lib'erated, brought thepresent
,suit. Upon the arrival of the vessel and cargo,: Minturn £9 Champlin -gave security tp abide the award of
the arbitrators concerning the freight,' according to the
covenant, in the charter-party, and obtained posseision
of the cargo.
Hoplinson, for the plaintiff, contended,
1. That there had been a total loss of the property
insured, occasioned by a peril within the terms of the
policy.
2. That the abandonment was made in due time.

FEBRUARY, 1807.

31

Whenever a-vessel is captured by a belligerent as Rnaxzx.
prize, whether the belligerent be i friend or an enemy,
.
the los is total, so long as the detention" exists; and In. Co. or
vests a complete right of abandonment. It is not the Pan.syLv.&-.
state of the information received, but the actual state of
Nrtthefact which justifies the abandonment, and gives- the
right to recover as-for a total loss. The vessel was actually libeUld as prize at the time of abandonment, although no information of such libel had been received
by the plaintiff ; and, therefore, the. case is clearly
within the doctrine established by the supreme court of.
Pennsylvania, in the case of Dutilgh v. Gatlif,decided
a few days ago ;' that if the vessel be libelled by the
* Decided January 17th, 1807. The opinion of Ch. J. Tilghrnan,

as published in the United States Gazette, of the 20th of the same

month, is as follows:

On the 24th of Sentember, 1799, the defendant, Samuel Gatliff, underwrote seven hundred and fifty dollars upon a policy of insurance
on the schooner Little Vil, belonging to John Dutilgh and Thomas
Lillibridge, for whom the plaintiff was agent, on a voyage at and
from Philadelphia to Havanna.
On the 25th of September, 1799, the Little Will sailed on her
voyage from Philadelphia for Havanna, and on the 8th day of October tllowing she was captured by three British privateers, and carried into the port of Nassau, New.Providence; where. she arrived
on the 13th of the same month.
Upon her arrival in Nassau, the said schooner was libelled irr tha
admiralty court, and on the 9th day of November following was
regularly acqitted ; and in the whole she remained thirty-seven,
days at Nassau, during thirty-five of which she was in custody of
the.captors; but the fact of her acquittal was not known to the
plainti until after the abandotiment hereafter mentioned --although
it was -known to John Dutilgh, one of the owners and supercargo,
who was withherat Nassau.
On the 13th day of November, the plaintiff wrote the letter of
abandonment inclosing the papers therein referred-to, which was received by the defendant the same day.
On the 20th of November the said schooner sailed from Nassau.
for -Fvanna, where she arrived on the 21st of the same month,
and sold her cargo, except three boxes plundered t New-Provi.
dence. Afterwards, the said schooner sailed from Havanna -for
Philadelphia, where she arrived on the 26th or 2?th of Februdry, it
the year 1800, with a cargo of sugars, on which freight became.
due, and was received by Stephen Dutilgh for the benefit of those
who were entitled to it; each party refusing zo accept her, he was
Vol.' IV

E

SWPREM9 C~OURT V. s,
BAH',TLA!4.

V

1,,. Coo,

captors at prize,, it is auch-a capture as gives the .izasured a complete right to abandon ; and to recover al
for a total loss, Although the Mlanhattan and cargo
sold. for wharfagp, and the whole proceeds of sale applied to tW.
payment thereof.
The schooner Little Will was Anterican property, as warranted.
The question for the court it, whether the platitiffis entitled to
;ecover as for a total loss ?
Opinion o" the Court, deliwwd by W. Z7lghman, Ch. Y.
On the ease thu' stated, the question submitted to the court is,
whether the plaintiff is entitled to recover for a total loss 1

In resolving this question, I shall divide it Into two pointr.
I. Did'there ever exist a total loss ?
2. Supposing that there once existed a total loss, has any cfrcumstance occurred which excludes the plaintiff from recoveriner
for more than a partial loss ?
1. The case before us includes one of the risks expiesaly mention.
ed in the.policy, a taking atisea. But it has been objected that this
taking was not by an enemy, and that when a belligerent takes it
neutral, it ir.to be presumed that the taking is only tor the purpose
of searching for the property of his enemy, or goods contraband of
war, and that in the end, justice will be done to the neutral. To a
certain extent there is weight in this distinction ; but it'must not be
carried too far. At the time when the capture in question was
made, the. United States acknowledged the right of the British to
detain their vessels for the purpose of a reasonable searcfi. The
hare taking of the vessel, therefore, could by no means cohtitute
a loss; and if under suspicious circumstances she should be carried
into port, to afford an opportunity for a complete investigation,
perhaps even thatought not of itself to be considered as a total losW.
On this, however, I give no opinion But when the captor, having
carried the vessel into port, and completed the examination of tho
cargo and papers, instead of discharging her, proceeds to libel her
as prize, I think the loss is complete. The property Is ro longer
subject to the command of the owner, and it is uhreasnnable that
he should wait the event of judicial proceedinga, which may con,
tinue for years. The case of an embargo is less strong-becauso
there the confiscation of the propefty is not intended, and 4 temporaty interruption of th voyage is aisthat in generl is to be approi
hended. Yet the assured is not obliged to wait tue result, but may
abandon immediately on receipt of intelligence of the embargo.*,,
Not many judicial decisions have been produced on the poiht Ift
question. Where principles are strong, it is sufficient that therp
have been nodecisions tc the contrlry. It appears, however, that
in the state of New-York, the precise point has been determined.
In the case of Mumford y. Church, deciacd in the suprerfie court of
New-York, July term, 1799, the assured recovered for a total logs

4 nZ1R.A .were acquitted by the vice-admiralty court before the
V.
returi' of the writ in the present case, yet the acquittal,
as to the cargo, -was su spended by the appeal; add the I. Co.o r
111A.

where there wva a oapture, arrynjnr into. port, and libelling by a
British captor, although after the abandonment the property was rqstored. It is necessary that some general rule shouldbe established;
&omeline drtwn by which the assured may know at what time he has
extremlyinjiured by
aright to abandon. In most saes the voyage is
the dvent ia doubtful.

proceedings in the court of.pdmiralty, and
For it cannot be denied, that of late such stran&e occurrences have
taken place, in war and politics, as have very much affected the
Whatever
principles and practice of foreign courts of admiralty. immutable
may be said of the law of nature and nations, and the
principles of justice, we see very phinly tlat the courts obey the
will of the sovereign power of their country ; and this will fluctuates
wiih the circumstances of the timis. I am therefore of opinion.
ac.
that both by the words and -spirit of a policy of insurance, the of
sured may aban4on when he receives intelligence of the libelling

b13vessel.

i. This brings me to the consideration of the second point. Has
any circumstance occurred" which limits the plainti" to a recovery

for only Apartial los I"

It is contended that such an event has occurred : that the vesse
was a;rcqtted by dAecree of the court of admiralty; that after tic.
quittal she proceeded on hir voyage, and that one of the owners
was on the spot, and knew, of the acquittal I do not think there is
niuch weight in the circumstance of one of the owners bein on
the spot, because the general agent of all the owners was in rila.
delphia. This general agent eflbcted the insurance, and conducteil
all the business with the underwriters, and the owner who )was ir)
New-Providence gave him intelligence of what occurred from timo
to time, and by no means intended, from .any thing that appears,
to restrain him from making an abandonment. .It is true that the
vessel proceeded on her voyage after she was restored; but it is not
stated, nor can the court presume, that any of the owneis acted in
a manner inconsistent with the abandonment made by their agent.
It was proper at -all events, to pu-sue the voyage for the benefit of
whoever might be interested in it This is the usual prketice, and
a practice authorised by.lhe policy, and very much for the advantage
of the underwriters.
The only dculty in the case before the court arises from this
circuntanee; that before the action was brought the vessel was
restored, and even at the time of the abandonment there was a de-"
cree of-acquittal, althotgh restitution does not appear to have been
actually made till some days atter The counsel for the defendant
have relied-much on the opinion of Lord Mansfield in-the case of
Haamilon v. Miendez, to establish this principle,- that a policy of insurance, being in its nature a contract of indemnity, the plaintiff
can recover no more than th'e amount of his actual loss at the commencement of the action. There is no doubt of the soundness of
the principle: I mean that a policy i; a contract of-indemnity. The
only question is, a; what peried the rights of the parties ara tn be

SUPREME COURt YJ. S.
4htcw
D

.AN-

V.

-r

property was not, in fact, put into the posessiom of the
freighters, util'they had given security to its full value,

IN. cb. or to return itto. the captors in case the sentence of ac.
irrk.. '

PZtTNSYX.VA-

tested J'y
this principle; whether at-the time of abandonment ot.of
the commencement of the action. I have considered attentively the
case of Hamilton v. Menoz. It must be obvious to every one, that
the decision inthat case was perfectly right. It was simply thin;
thht a man shall not be'permitted to abandlon and recover for a totul
loss, when he knew at the time of his offer to abandon, that hisproperty which bad been lost was restored, and the voyage very
little injured. But in reading the opinion of Lord Mansfield,, we
find a want of accuracy, with which that great man was seldori
c argeable. Sometimes it appears as if he thought the period for
fixing the' rights of the insurers anti insured was the comutencce
ment of the suit ; sometimes the time of abandonptent, and some.
times he even seems to have extended his ideas so far as the tim6
of the verdicL But finally he explicitly declares, that he decided
nothing but the point before him. He seems to have fblt a litile
sore at the improper application of some general expressions ued'
by him in the case of Goes v. iithera. Anxious to cut off all protence for doing the same in Hamilton v. Mendez, he has taken too
mdch pains to avoid the possibility of misrepresentation. Hence
his argument, considered in the whole, is not altogether clear and
consiste it. Upon the whole of this case of Hamilton v. Mendez, I
think it most safe to cqnfine its authority to the point actually detided, which was very different from that we are no%V considering.
Some period must be fixed fordetermining the right 6f the parties.
Tolimit it to tile time of commenbing the action, would bb of little
service to the insurers; for the law'being once so established, aft
action would be brought in every instarice on th first default of
paymint, The' time of abandonment seems the most -natural attd
convenient period ; because the ssu'ed nhust make' his election to
abandon ornot, in-a reasonable and short time after lie hears ovFtb6
loss, and the property being transferred by the abandonment, cari
never afterwards be claimed by the assured-Want of mutuality id
want of justice. There is no reason why.th asgured s'h6u-be
bolind, but the assurer left free to take advantage of events, iubee.
quent to the'abandonment.
It has been confended bythe plaintifPs. counsel, that the right to
ablandon would not have bedn affected,' even if the property hal beitI
ietored'at the time of abxndonment, because the restitutloih Vim.
unknown to the plaintiff. As to this, I give no opinion. It is unnecessary; because it is stated that the vessel remained in die
editody of thd c;ptor,, at tlii titie of the abandonment.' The defefida it'sZ ouniel have urged that this was the fault of the caftiin,
or of one of the owners who was then at Ne%.Providende fbecaust,
aftee a decree of acquittal, a-writ of restitutidii might have been
stied out. But itnot being stated thitt there was any ftlt or neoll.
gende in the captain-or owner,' I do not' think that the court can
inferit; it being stated that the 4essel remained in the cuhtody'of
the captori we must presume that the custody was ldgal. Whether
fir the iirpose of-giving the captors an opportunity of entering an

VEBRUARY

1tO7.

4uittal should be reversed. As to them, therefore, the Rn1L.Az.
property was not restored. It never, arrived in safety.
"1
Its trial was still pending, and if it should finally be I.,.
C or

condemned, the freighters would never be liable to the

plaintiff for the freight. As to the-plaintiff,. therefore,
itstill continues a total loss of the freight. - He cannot,
In any event, recover it from the freighters until the
appeal is decided, and if that decision slhould be against
the latter, hisonly chance would be in the hope of justice from -the courts of the captors, who, upon condemnation of the cargo, sometimes orderthe freight to
be paid to the dwner of the ship, if he is a fair neutral,
and has no interest in the cargo. Nothing but relieving
the freighters from the security they had given for the
cargo, could entitle the plaintiff to recover against them.
The underwriters; therefore, were bound either to pay
to the plaintiff the amount they had insured, or, by
giving such counter security as should indemnify the
freighters; give the plaintiff a right of action against
them. The lhtter part of the alternative the defendants
have refused, - The case of Da Costa v. Newnham, 2
T. R. 407. shows that the underwriters were bound to
give suth counter security, or to pay the amount in'
sured. The"property never came free into. the hands
of! the freighters., The right of, artion depends upon
the facts exiqting at the time of abandonment. In the
case of,.Mumford v. Church, decided by the supreme
court of New-York, at July term, 1799, the assure4
recovered, notwithstanding a, restoration before aban.
donment. ,But the assured cannot retract his abandonment,, and it is notjust that one'party should be,bound,
and the other at liberty. If the plaintiff had a right to
abandon, the defendants, were bound to accept.
-

For the defendants, Ratvl and Le-wis contended.
1. That there never was a total loss; and, consequently, 'the plaintiff never had a right to abandon.
appeal, o- for what purpose it was the restitution was delayed, we
are at a loss to determine. But as restitution'\vas not actually made,
an s'theplaintiff was ignorant even of the decree of acquttal, his
right to abandon remained unimpaired.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that the p!anti is extitid to
"c'over for a total !ed.?.

PZIaSVLvA.

,

SUPRISME COVUT V. S.

$6
RUeI

Ja. Co. oi
PANI~SSYL ltj.
N A.

2. That before the action w;w brought, the veselI
S-

was acquitted. and therefore no right of action ca
isted.

3. That before the return of the writ, the vessel and
cargo had arrived in safety at the 'port of destination,
and the freight was earned, and that the plaintiff might
recover it from the freighters.*
4. That the plaintiff. had voluntarily suffered tho
cargo to be delivered without payment of the freight,
and had lost, his lien on the goods by his owh folly,
and therefore had no right to recover Yrdm the underwriters.
They admitted that the defendants were liable for a
partial loss to the amount of the charges, expenses, &C.
in consequence of the capture; but denied that the
plaintiff could claim for a total loss, The'information
received at' the time of -the ofleer to abandon was onlyof
an arrest and detention ; which, as the Manhattan was
a neutral vessel, must be presumed to be only for the
purpo6se of ekercising the belligerent right of search;
andsuch A d6tention has never been holden to give a
right to abandon. But a capture by a friend differs
from a capture by an enemy. .Park4, 66. Itis presumed
that the courits of our friend will Ulo us justice, and restore our property without delay. Hence- no salvagb is
allowedfor the recapture of a neutral from the, power of
one of the b'lligermnts, uhless under very pariicular
circumstances. ' If the capture of a neutral be not followed by condemnation, it is not a total loss, unless the
Voyage be wholly 'broken up. Parb, 79. Salo c'i v.
7oohnson. The right of search (admitted by our treaty)
g!ves a right to send the neutral into port for examination, ad for *that purpose the belligerent may put a
force on board, and take out part of the 'original crew:
The mere. capture, ordering her into port, taking out
part of the'crew and putting other men on, board, gave
no right to abandon, and yet the aba.'idonment is founded .pon those facts only. The defendants were not
obliged to accept 'the abandonment. It ought to have
been accompanied by a cession. No subsequent event
can make it valid. It wasnot accepted, and, therefore

FEBRUARY, 16o.

37

did notbind eitherparty. The information ought to be RI.zim.-.
U!
such ai the time of abandonment, that the underwriter
may know whether he ought to accept it or not. He jb. Co gI
ahould be able to decide whcther he ought to undertake Pr.I:.sYLVAthe defence of the property. The insured cannot aban.
don, unless upon information of facts which show a
total loss. "Subsrquent events cannot be coupled with a
prior offer t6 abandon. Suppose the insured should
Cay, I heard of a gale of waind ; I offer to abantlon,
although I have heard of no loss; tould that avail him ?
In the case of Suydam &' WcAofv. The Marine .Asutnce ,Company, 1 7ohn8on, 181. the supreme court of
the state of New-York decided that the insured cannot
avail himself of a subsequent events without a new
abandonment. It is admitted that the facts, and not
the*information,. decide the right to abandon, but there
must be information of sufficient facts at the time of
abandonment. A detention for examination does not
necesstrily, destroy the voyage, pr even render it probable. that the voyage will be broken uip. Whenever
tlrefact appears that the voyage is destroyed, and the
jury finds the- fact to be so, (for it is not.a matter of
lawy,) it is a total loss. There is no printed report of
the case of Mumford v. Church, and therefore yie cannot examine its principles.*
-

But the restitution of the cargo, although on security, is a legal restitution. The freight never was in
danger. If it has beep, it was in consequence of facts
which would have discharged the underwriters. If the
voyage was lawful, freight would have been allowed,
even upon. enemies' goods, and although the voyage
was not ended. Whether the cargo be condemned or
pag, the ship-owner is entitled to his freight. The
only ground bpon which a British court of admiralty
will iefuse to allow freight, is a ground which would
also cischarge the underwriters, viz. that the shipowirer was not a fair neutral. 1Rob. 245. (Amer. ed.)The
Copenhagen. 2 Rob. 84. The Rebecca. 3 Rob. 88. The
SLzvNoGSTO, 1. That case was reversed, in principle, by the
eourt of errors, in Tmrberly v. Church. And the law now establiwhed
by that case, in New-York, is, that, if, at the tiTne ofabandonment.
1he p.-pery ha: btn aruallfy rentored, the abandonvcuris ir'ealid.

38
RIZ1ZLAN-

DZU

1, Co. op
FZ.NNrYLVA.
L T&.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Racehojse. 3 Rob.'245. Ti Atds.
The Frow Henrica.

4,Rob. 219. 28

Bos. & Put. 291. Touteng v.

Hubbard. It is only a delay in receiving the freight.
If the plaintiff is to be considered as a fair neutral shipowner, he must ev.entually recover the freight, either
from the owners of the cargo, or the captors ; and if
he is not such a fair neutral ship-owner, the warranty
in the policy is falsified, and the defendants are not
liable. Suppose the delay had been caused by tny of
the' other perils insured against, such as a violent storm
driving the ship off from the coast, or a long course of
cobtrary wipds, &c. the inconvenience to the plaintiff
would have been the same, and yet he would have no
right to abandonb The' defendants did not unlertake
that the voyage should be performed in any given time,
nor to be liable for the wear and te'ir of the ship, tackle,
&c. in consequence of such protracted voyage. The
defendants have a right to avail 'themselves, in their
defence, of -the very evidence produced on the trial of
the libel, and even of the sentence of condemnation, if
it proceed upon grounds inconsistent with the warranty.
The defendants were not bound to give the counter sccurity ; because the plaintiff's vessel had been restored
iohim without security; and it cannot be 'right that the
defendants, who are not underwriters upon the cargo,
should give security to its whole amount, in qrde' to
enable the plaintiff to recover the freight from the
freighters.

-

But the freight was earned, and the freighters were
liable to the plaintiff before.the defendants were bound
to plead. The vessel and cargo had arrived, and the
defendants may now set up that fact as a defence.
If a vessel, supposed to be lost, be abandoned to the
underwriters, and a suit brought upon the policy ; but
before plea pleaded, the vessel arrive in safety ; the
underwriter may plead this fact, or give it in evidence,.
and it will be a good defence. In ffamilon v. Mendez,.
2 Burr. 1214. Lord Mansfield says, " We give no
opinion how it would be in case the ship. or goods 'be
restored in safety" " between the coinmincement of tlie
action and the verdict." And in .Sullivan v. Montague,
D)ofig. 112. he says" actio non goes, ip every case, to,

-FEBRUARY, 1807.

39

ading, n9t to the commencement of the RuxiruLA.
O
thqiw ofi
ULU
acrion." The dedaratin is the'beginning of the action.
Co, Litt. 126. (a) And even after plea pleaded, if any hu. Co. op
matter of defence arise, the defendant inav, -an4 in- PVn,,&YLvAalA.
deed if he would tiot forever lose the. benefit of it, he
must, plead it as a plea puis darreincontiduance. rdv.
141, .Ewerv. Yoile.
But the plaintiff has never made a cession to the underwriters, of his right to the freight, and of the means
of obtaining it. He had, by a covenant in the charter.
party, given up his lien upon the cargo ; a fact unknown
to the defendants, and which ought to have been disclosed. He had also, without the defendants' consent,
left the question of freight to arbitrators, who have not
yet decided.
higersoll, in reply.
The question whether the' cargo shall be restored to
its owners, is still pending in the court of admiralty,
and if the plaintiff had, at any time, a right to reeover
the freight from the underwriters, that right still continues. On the first intelligence of the capture, the
plaintiff offered to abandon ; and according to the true
state of the facts, he had then a complete right to abandon. Although the property was neutral, yet it was
captured asprize. It was treated by the captors as
enemy-property. It was, in fact, taken jure belli, and
therefore it can make no difference, in principle, whether the nation of the captors be at peace or at war with
the nation of the captured vessel and cargo. It was
seized as prize of war, and the question of neutrality
upon
possession,
is still to be decided. ' The deliveryofofthe
if
cargo, than
security, is no more a restitution
the owners had purchased it under a decree of condemnation. It has not arrived safe; it is burthened
with an incumbrance to its full. value. The circumstances detailed by the second- mate, in his first information to the plaintiff, clearly showed that the seizure
was made of the property as prize of -war. It is said
the abandonment was made too soon. In Fuller v.
i17'Call, 2 Dall; 219. the plaintiff was holden to be too
late, because he did not abandon upon receipt of the
first intelligence, although the information came from a
Vol. IV.

F

40

SUPREME C6URT U. S

But here the information was gi-en by an
officer of thi ship, an ey wrness,- and the vessel was,
'N. CO. or -in fact, libelled ttn prize of war. The insured is bound
PE; SYLVA. to abandon in a i'easonable time after receiving the inA
telligence, so that the underwriter' may take measures,
to sav6 what he taii to -indemnify himself; and no oh,
RtNF.-- smrangcr.
DS

jection can be made that the insured abandoned too

soon,, if subsequent information prove that he had then
a iight T6 abandon.
Whether -this be strictly a capture or not, is imniaterial, as one of the risks insured against'is tahing at sea;
and -as this 'taking Oas with the view of seizure a3
.prize, on duspicion of its- being enemy-property, it is
within the prin6iple- of belligerent capture, The right
of search gives no Tight to dispossess the owner of his
vessel, either according to the law of nations, or to our
treaty with Great Britain, But it such right did exist,
an unreasonable'detention gives a right to abandon ; and
whenever a vessel is libelled, if the insured'me a ns to
claim for a total loss, he bught to abandon, in order to
give the underwriters a right to defend the property in
the courk of admiralty. The insured, after an offer to
'abandon, is not bound to defend the property+ The
libel was filed eight days before the abandonment, but
that fact was not necessary to give'the right-to abandon.
It has been said that the books furnish no case in
Vhich the capture by a friend has bnen decided to' be a
total loss. But Marshall,in p. 422. and 435; considers
the law as setded, ,that a. capttre by a friend, under
pretence of enemy's goods,, must be ionsidered a4 a
capture, because it is done as an act of hostility. The
uncertainty of the duration of the detention, puts it
upon the same principle as the case, of. an 'embargo. A
capture is a total loss, although a condemnatioin never
takes place. 2 Burr. 694. 697. Goss v. Mithers.
An actualdeed of cession was not necessary, because
the'offer to abandon was not absolutely accepfed. The
offer to cede the plaintiff's right w'as sufficient. The
covenant in the charter-party to relinquish,the.lien on
the cargo for freight, 'upon other security being given,
did.paot affect the interests of the'Underwriters.. The
iecurity stood in the place of the cargo, and was abundantly sufficient.

FEBRUARYj- 1807.
.MAMESuALL,

as-follows.

41

Ch. f. delivereti the opijio]A of the cqcrt

Rxu=.AU;
Dnn
V.

k'Co. or,-

The Manhattan, a neutral ship, whilia. prosecuting. Pim.iBytvaN

the voyage insured, 'was captured by a. 4elligetent
cruiser, the second mate and twenty-one of the 4anda
were taken out, and twoBfitishoflicers and fifteep seatpen
put on board, and she was ordered into a British port.
The mate soon afterwards arrived in the United"Stakis
in another vessel. "On the 26th of Februar y, 180., he
gave. information of these facts to the owner of th"
Manhattan, who on the 28th of the same month communicated it to the insurers, and offered to abandon to
them. On the 2d of April paynient'of the freight was
demanded ind refused. The Manhattan wtm carried
into Bermudas, and libelled as prize of war. On
the 20th- of April in the same year, both vessel and
cargo'were acquitted. From this sentence, so far as.
-respected the cargo only, an appeal was. prayed, which
does not appear tohave been decided. The cargo was

delivered:to the owners on their giving security, dind on
the 8th of July the vessel and cargo arrived at the port
ofdestination. The underwriters havingrefused to give
counter security, this action was, broight on the 6th of
June, qfter the vessel was liberated, and before her arrival at the port of destimation. The policy is on the freight.
The question referred to this court is, whether the
facts stated entitle the' insured to -recover against the
underwriters for a total loss.
In examining this question, the material points to be
determined are,
Ist. Had the insured a right to abandon when the offer
was made ?
2dly. Have any circumstances since occurred which
affect this xight?

These are important questions to the commercial inte est of the United States, and ought to be settled with.
as much clearness as the case admits.

VIA

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IAXXRLAV.
D33
V.

1,,. Co. ,i
PrSNNYZANIA.

IIt

i universally- agreed, that to constitute a right to

abandon, there must have existed a total loss, occasioned
by one of the perils insured against; but this total loss
may be real, or legal. Where the loss is-realf a controversy can only respect, the fact ;but the-circumstances
whic, cznstitute a legal, or-technical loss$ yet remain
i4 many cases, opden for.consideration,

It has been decided that a capture, by one belligerent
from another, constitutes, -in the technical sense of the
word, a total los, and gives an immediate right to the
insured to abandon to the insurers, although the vessel
may afterwards be recaptured and restored.
it
ha; also been decided, that an embargd ordewntion
by a foreign friendly power, constitutes a total loss , and
warrants an.immediatq abandonz'ent. "Butthe capture,
or taking at sea of a neutral vessel by a belligerent, is a
cas- on which the courts of England,- do not appear to
have expressly decidedl and. which.must depend on ge1
nera l p inciples on analogy,, and -on a reasonable construarion of the contract between the parties.
SA,capture by, an enemy is, a total1oss, nlthough the
properiy..be .notchangedi because.-the tiaing is with an
intent to deprive the owner of it,and because the holio
of recovery is too small, and too remote to suspend
tht rigb; of tbe insured, ,ihexpectation of thit event.

If a neutral ship be captured as.enemy-property, the'
taking is unquestionably with a design ;to deprive the
owner of it; and the.hope.of recayeryicin many cases
remote, since it may often depend on an appellate court;
and though not equglly improbable as in the case of
.capture by,an enemy., is.nQt-&o, certain., as.is stated in
argument by the counsel for the defendants.
,The distinction between a.capture.by an-.enemy and
by a belligerent not an enemy, has not bee.-taken.iinthe'
cases a djudged in England, so far a those cases have
been laid before the court, and the best general writers
seem to arrange them in, the, stme-dlasse-. 2 arshol4"
422. 435.

FEBRUARY, 1807,
It.has been also determinea, that a total loss existed RUzL UDZa
in the case of an embargo, or the detention of a foreign
C.or
prince.
In one case cited at the bar, (Saloucci v. _ohnson,) the
court of.kng's bench determined that an illegal arrest
at sea amounted to - detention by a foreign prince, and
although that case has since been overruled in England,
so far as it decided that to resist a search did notjusti6f
a seizure, yet the principle that an arrest at sea was to
be resolved into a detention by a foreign power, has
not been denied. .fars4all (435.) after noticing the
contrary decisions respecting the right of a neutral to
resist a search, adds, " yet the above case of Saloucci v.
.ohnson may nevertheless, I conceive, be considered
as an authority to prove, that if a neutral ship be unlawfully arrested and detained by a belligerent cruiser,
foi any pretended offence against the law of nations,
this would be a detention of princes."
That a-detention of a foreign power by embargo, or
otherwise, warrants an abandonment, is well settled. 2
Xfarshall 483.
The opinion given by the court of king's bench in the
case of Saloucci v. 7ohnson, goes no further than to
establish that anlznla'wful arrest at sea is to be considered as the detention of a foreign prince. Whether the
arrestcan only be considered as unlawful when the cause
alleged; if true, is- not in itself sufficient to justify a
seizure, or when, if true, it would be sufficient, but is
in reality contrary to the fact, is not stated. In point
of reason, however, it would seem that when an arrest
is made at sea by a person acting under the authority of
a prince, the detention is as much the detention of
princes in the one case as in the other.
In the case of an embargo, the detention is lawful.
The right of any power to lay an embargo has not betn
questioned. Yet it is universally admitted, that an
embargo constitutes a detention which amounts, at ihe
time, to a total loss, and warrants an abandonment.

11:A.

SUPREME COURT U. $.
R)IXNZLANDER

Co. Ol
".

In what ransists the difierenco. betw eu a detcntion
occasioned by, an evqbargo, and a dateption occasione4
by an arrest at sea of a neutral 'y a belligerent power?

PzWSYLVA-

MIA.

An embargo is not laid witlva,view to deprive Ihe
owner of his property, but the arrest is made with.that
view. In the first case, therefore, the property detained is not in hazard ; in the last, it always is in hazard.,
So far the claim to abandon on an arrest is supported by
stronger reason than the claim to abandon when detained by an embargo.
But it is argued that the duration of an embargo has,
no definite limitation, while a neutral vessel may count,
on being instantly discharged. Such is the rapidity of
proceedivg in a court of admiralty, that its mandate of
restoratiQn is figuratively said to be "borne on the wings
of the wind."
Commercial contracts have but little connection with
figurative language, and are . seldom rightly expounded
by a course of artificial reasoning, Merchants generally regard the fact itself; and if the fact be ittended to,
tn embargo seldom continues as long as the trial of a
piize cause, where an appeal is interposed. The history of modern Europe, it is believed, ddes not furnish,
an instance of an embargo of equal duration with the
-question whether the.cargo of the Manhattan be or be,not lawful prize. The reasoning of, the books in the
case of a. capture by an enemy, and of an embargo,
arrest by
applies iri terms, but certainly in reason, to aup
a belligerent, not an enemy. 2 M1'arshall,.483.

The reasoning-of the English judges in all the cases
which have been read at bar, and their decisions on the,
question of abandonment, have received the attention,
-of the court.- To go through those cases would protract'

this opinion to a length unnecessarily tedious. ,,With
respect to them, therefore, it will only be observed
that the,principles laid down appear to be applicable to.
an arrest as-w'ell as to a capture, or detention of foreign
powers; and that a distinction brtweea, an arrqot anl,

such capture or detention, has never been taken.

FBBAUAhY, 18o7-

45

'theleontrct-of insurance is said tp be a contract "of.R1n1zL&u.
i
indenmity, and therefore (it is ;urged by the inderwr.ters, and has been repeatedly urged by them).,the I. co. ou
,.
-tesJred-can-otly recover according to the-damage he Pg .3yVi
has sustained.- This is true; and has uniformly been
admitted.,. But if full compensation, could only be de.;
manded where there was an actual total loss, an aban:donment could only take place where, there was nothing
to aafidon;
-There-art situations in which the-delay of the voy.ge, the deprivation of the right to'conduct it, 'produce
inconveniences to the insured, for. the. calculation of
which the law affords and can afford no standard. In
such -cases there is, for the time, a 'total loss : and iii
this state of things the insured' may ababdon, to the
underwriter, who stands in his place, and to whom
justice-is done, by enabling him to receive all that the
'insured might'receive. A capture by an chemi and an
embargo by a foreign power are admitted to be withini
this rule, and a complete arrest by a belligerent niot an
enemy, seems, in reason, to be equally within it.
It is, therefore, the unanimous opinion of the court,
that where; as in this case, there is a complete taking
at sea by a belligerent, who has tiken full possession of
the vessel as prize, and continues that possession to the
time of the abandonment, there exists, in point of law,
a total loss, and the adt of abandonment vests the right
to the thing abandoned in the underwriters, and the
amount of insurance in the assured.
2. Have any circumstances occurred since the aban'donment, which have converted' this total into a partial
loss ?
Without reviewing the conduct ot the assured subse-'
quent to that period, it will be sufficient to observe that
he has performed no act which can be construed into a
relinquishment of the right which was vested in him bv
the offer to abandon.
Jt'only remains, then, to inquire whether the release
and return of the Manhattan deprives the assured of

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RIIINELAN-

V.
V.

Ti. Co. or
PENNSYLVA-

ntA.

the right to resort to the underwriters for a total lose,
which was given by the abandonment.

This point has never been decided in the courts of

England.

In the case of Hamilton v. Menaez, Lord Mansfield
leaves it completely undeterniined, whether the state of
loss at the time the abandonment is made, or at the

time of action brought, or at the time of the verdict
rendered, shall fix the right to recover for a partial or a
total loss.
A majority of the judges are of opinion that the httite
of loss at the time of the abandonment must fix the rights
of the parties to recover on an action afterwards
brought; and the judge who doubts respecting it, is of
opinion that, in this case, counter security having been
refused by the underwriters, the question of freight is
yet suspendeid.
It is to be certified to the circuit court of Pennsylvantla, that in the case stated for the. opinion of this
court, the. plaintiff is entitled to recover for a total
loss.

oM

MONTALFT
V.
MRiRAY.

When both
parties are a-

NTALET v. MURRAY.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of

Georgia.
courts
the
United of
States
The action was brought in the courlt below by luiirhave not jalie,::, the

ray/, a citizen of the state af Neiv-21ori, against MA'ontalet,
risdiction.
If it does an alief, and citizen of (he Prench republic, upon sundry
not ther prbmissory notes, made by the defendant at St. Doiningo,
cord
suit

have

tht a
might

I

* Presct, Alar.rhall, Chief Justice; Watlnqton, folh on
been Living'.tgn, justices.

nd

