FEBRUARY, 1804.

RAMSAY v. LEE.

Rum.

LEE.

E.k(RO to the circuit-court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of detinue
brought by Lee against Ramsay, for a slave named
Frederick,

The material facts appearing by the bill of exceptions
taken by the defetcdant below, were, that Lee claimed as
trustee for Kenne±dy, under a deed from Wilson duly
acknowledged and recorded, and dated the 1st of Decembe% 1804. The question was, whether at thd date
of thatIleed Wilson had a good title to the slave.
I

In Virginia,

in 17M, no
gift ofa slave
v ralid,un-

less in Vf-itinK
and recorded,

e
companied
thegift.
0jtewhetlher s nris'
possession
alone
title to a good
enabld

Mrs. Gordon being the owner of the slave in 1784, pinti R.
made a verbal gift of him to the defendant Ramsay, who t
en'u was then only eight years, old, and possession accompanied the gift ; the slave remained with the defendant
and his mother, Mrs. Ramsay, in the family of Wilson,
until the year 1790, when Mrs. Ramsay, (claiming'the
slave as residuary legatee under the will of Mrs. Gordon, under t4hidea that the parol gift to her son was
void,) by deed of bargain and sald conveyed theslave to
Wilson, in consideration of five shillings, " and divers
other good causes." Wilson held possession of the slave
under that deed until the year 1805, when the defendant
took him away, and has ever since detained him. The
defendant'and his mother and the slave had continued
to live in the family of Wilson from the year 1784 till
the year 1805.
The court below, upon the plaintiff's motion, instruct.
ed the jury, "that if such a verbal gift was made to the
defendant of thl said slave, and such possession given
to him as aforesaid, the gift is void in I1 v, and opposes
no bar to the recovery of the plaintiff."
The verdict and judgment in the court below being
against the defendant, he brought his writ of error."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RAMSAY
V.

"roung., for the plaintiff in error,
Did not contend that the verbal gift of a slave could.,
under the laws of Virginia, give a good title, but that
such a gift and five years' possaession was a good title for
a defendant in detinue, but not for a plaintiff, if his pos.
session -was wrongfully acquired.. He tontended that
the defendant's tide was confirmeZl by the operation of
the act of assembly of Virginah, passed iq 1787.
'.

. Lee, contra.

If five years' possession is a good title to Ramsay,'fifteen years possession must be a good title in Wilson;
and his possessioh being posterior to Ramsay's; must
give him ' better tide.
The case of Turner v. Turner, 1 Wash. 139. is decisive that such a parol gift cannot b given in evidence.
2, ungs, in reply.
Thepostession of- Wilson, in order to create a title,
must at all events have. been adverse; but his possession
was the possession of Ramsay. They. all lived in the
same family.
In the case of 7ourdan v. Murray, 3 Call, 85. it is
decided by the court of appeals in Virginia, that a ptrol
gift 'of slaves prior to .1787 may be given in evidence to
prove five years' possession, so as to bar the.plaintiff's recovery.
M
IARSHXLL, Cl. J. There is no question that five
years? adverse possession, with or without right, gives a
good tide.

Mfarch 14.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the bpinion of the court
to the effect following:

This case is the same as that of Willison v. Spiers, just
decided, except that in this case the court below gave the

FEBRUARY, 18os.
instruction which the court in -Kentucky ought to have
given.

RAISA.
V.

The opinion of the court was only that a parol gift to
the defendant, accompanied by possession, did not bar
the plaintiff's right to recover.
This court gives no opinion as to the title acquired by
the possession.
Judgment affirmed.

STEAD'S EXECUTORS v. COURSE.
Ex~cutions

C6unsc.
ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Geor- A collector,
lnd
selling
gia, as a court of equity.
i,r
tales,
must act in
Stead's executors brought their bill in equity against consformity
Elizabeth Course, the widow, z. d Caroline Course, the with the law
which
ofopower
infant daughterof DanielCourse,jdeceased,to set aside, as his
iq
and
a
collector
derived,
fraudulent, a deed of land mad6 by Courvoisie,
of taxes for Chatham county, to Daniel Course, and to the purchaser
charge the land for payment of a debt due from the late is bound ,o
-.he.
firm of Rae and gomerville to the -complainan's testator, inquire
thee be has so
according to a former decree of the court. The bill acted.
Itis incum.
charges the land as being still the estate of John Rae, deceased, formerly one of the partner in the firm of Rae bent an the
ven-dee
to
and Somerville, and that all the joint funds were ex-. provq the authority to selL
hausted.
By'the tax
of GrThere was no appearance for the defendant Caroline; laws
gnfar
1790
but the defendant Elizabeth appeared, and pleaded, that and 1791, the
her late husband, Danicl Course, pur*chased the lrad collector was
fairly and bona ftide at public sale from the tax-gatherer, a,ahorised to
for the sum of 552 dollars and 89 cents, without notice on the defiof any claim, title or interest of the complainants in the ciency of persaid land, if any they have. The plea avers that the son-l estate:
then to
consideration money was paid to the tax-gatherer; that and
sellonly so

