FEBRUARY, 1808.

443

of those who are merely to pronounce what the law is, Caoupsol
and if from axrv circumstance it has become impolitic, Lso.AnD.
in a national point of view, it is for the nation to annul
or to modify it. Till this is done, by the competent authority, I consider the rule to be inflexible.*

THE UNITED STATES v. THE SCHOONER TurUNuTED

BETSEY AND CHARLO TI'E, AND
HER CARGO.

V
Sv.irs
BrTscv, &a

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the circuit All seizures
court of the district of Columbia, reversing that of the impd
ai*
district court, which condemned the schooner Betsey gationortradle
and Charlotte, and her cargo, as forfeited, for a viola- of the United
tion of the act of congress of the 28th of February, States, wbere
the seizurds
1806, entitled, " An act to suspend the commercial inSare made on
tercourse between the United States and certain parts -waters naviof the island of St. Domingo." Laws U. . vol. 8. gablefromthe
. 1I.
sea by vessels
of ten or more
tons burthen,
The libel being filed, and the monition. returned ex- are civil cau.
ecuted, the claimant appeared, and having givenfide- ralty
3ca of
maandadml-

jussory caution, to respond the costs, offered a plea ritime juris.
admitting all the facts charged in'tli libel, expepting dlicti6n. anl
the voluntary carrying of the vessel into the port of are to be tried
Cape Franfois, the prohibited 'port mentioned in the 'ith"ut ajury.

libdewhich he denied; and" thereofput himself on the' ther te hncountry." But ti district judge rejected the plea, and svwer of the
ordered the claimant to answer. on oath: whereupon claimant to
the claimant offered the same denial on oath, by wa) of the
libel,
t
answer ; to the receiving of which the attorneyfor the
United States objected, unless the claimant would make
-ath to answer truly all interrogatories which might be

ought not-al
ways to be
upon oath if
required; and
whether heis
nnt bound to
submit to anJudges Chase and Livingrton dissented ; and Judge Todd, not swer .interrhaving been present at the argument, gave no opinion. So tfhat gatores upon
this judgment is reversed by the opinions of .Mrarshall,Ch. J. .-ds- oath, riva-e
irf, TWlashingto., and .7ohron,Justice-;.
in open ceouit.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
TuIEUNZTED
STATFs

put to him relative to the cause; but the judge overruled the objection, and received the answer, saying

V.

BnTsE-V, &,..that the, United States might except to the answer, in
-

the same manner as to an answer in chancery; or,

might reply, setting forth new facts not inconsistent
the trial of a with the libel, and put interrogatories thereupon, as
WVhctheion

vessel for vio-.

lation of the upon the allegations in a bill in chancery, which, if
law. prohibit- proper and pertinent, must be answered ; as was done
ing Inter- in the case of Zaleu v. Shattuch, (ante, vol. 3. P. 458.)
course with
certain ports

in St. DominThe attorney for the United States filed a replication,
go, evidence and propounded interrogatories, which he prayed might

be admissible be answered by the claimant viva voce, itr open court.

that other yesads belong: To this the claimant objected, but 'the judge ovqrruled

ing to the the objection.
same owner,
were
the
The Betsey'and Charlotte sailed from Alexandria in
same atprohi.
bited port a September, 1806, with a clearance for St. Yqgo de
the sametime: Cuba.
as a circumstance
tending to clscreUpon the trial, the attorney for the United States

lit the evi. produced and ofted evidence, that during the months
dence of dis- of Augusi and September in the same year, two other

tress set up vessels, owned in whole or in part by the claimant,
as an excuse

for going to sailed from Alexandria, with clearances for St. Yago

.such prohibit- de Cuba, and, as well .as the.',Bsey and Charlotte, ar-dport.
rived at Cape FranFo3. To this evidence the claimant
objected, but the judge overruled the objection, and
heard the evidence.
From the sentence of condemniation by the district
judge, the claimant appealed to the circuit court, and
new evidence being admitted, the sentence was reversed

and restoration awarded. From this sentence, the
United States appealed to this court, where witnesses
were examined viva voce, both on the part 9 f the Ulnited
States and on that of the claimant.
C. Lee, for the claimant, stated that he should contend,
1. That the proceedings ought to have been according to the course of the common laii, and the facos
ought to have been tried by a jury.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
2. That the judge ought not to have compelled the Tu -Urx:r
S.- rs
claimant to, answer upon oath; and,
V.
3. That the vessel oughtto be acquitted uponthe facts
of the case.
Yones, for th' United States, was stopped by the
court, who expressed a wish to hear the other side.
He wished, however, to be heard, upon the question of
pitting the claimant to answer upon .oatb, and was indulged.
He observed that this was not a proceeding in personam, but in rem. The United States did not bring
in the claimant by process, and compel him to answer
upon oatn, as is done in chancery cases; but the claimant comes in voluntarily to support his interest, and
submits to the jurisdiction of the court. He ought to
come with cleau hands and a- pure heart. If this be a case
of admiralty jurisdiction, the proceedings must be according to the course of the civil law, where the practice universally has been to try cases without a jury.
Wood' Inst. Civ. Law, 133. 2 Browne's Civ. .1ia6,
248, 249. 413. 415, 416. 1 Brownc, 472. 474. 11fuley
v. Shttuck, (ante, vol. 3. p. 458.) 1 Domat. 460. s. 4.
Such also was the understanding of the legislature,
when they established a fee for the drawing of the -interrogatories. Laws U. S. vol. 2. p. 222.
The exception in the English statutes applies only to
the ecclesiasticaf :ourts, and to those.interrogatories,
the answers to which might subject the party to ecch.i.
astical censures.
But the act of congress upon which this libel is,
founded does not make it criminal in the person to trade
to St. Domingo. It only subjects'to forfeiture the property, and renders the party liable upon his bond.
Toungs, contra.
There can be no case of-admiralty jurisdiction; unless it be a case under the law of nations. Cases of
revenue or of municipal seizure a.re not cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.

11rTSLY, &C.
'.--,-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

446 .

"The 9th dictian off the judiciary act, (vol. 1. .,.)
mereV geives to the district court jurisdictionmof caries of
BnT.sey, &c. seizure" but does not make them cases of admiralty.

TZUXUNzTZD
STATfZS

,'--

Afid in all cases at common law, th'e irial by j(Lry is
guaiantied by the constituticln of the United States.
The act under which this prosecution is commence d,
does not direct the form of. trial.

£he disetict court, as a court of admitalty, is a court
of limited jurisdiction ; and in this case, the libel does
not state that the seizure was made on waters which are

navigable from the sea by vessels 'of ten or more tons
burthen.

The fact is not alleged which alone tould

make it a case of admiraltyjurisdiction.
In England, a seizure for violation of the navigation
act is tried by information in the'court of'exchequer,
According to the course Pf the common law.
It is contiary to the principles of the common law to
make a man criminate himself.
MARSHALL,

tn.

j.

sia

the court wished to hear

the counsel for the United States* on the question of
fact. zones. It is to be understood, then, that the coutt
is satisfied as to the questions-of "law?
No attempt has been made to
MARlSHALL, Ch. J.
distinguish this case from those of The Pen'eance, 3
Dallas, '297. and -The Sally, (ant&, vol..2, 2p. 406.)
'hose cases have settled the law, and unless this cnse
can he distinguished from those, the court does not
think an argument necessary.#
C. Lee. I .hope to show thqt thisr case is distijnguishablo-from
those ; an4 to- be permitted to argua at large the point of' law, that
this is not a case of admiralty jurlsdictidn. I 'rgued the vase of
the Vengeance, and I know it was'not so fully argued as'it might
have been ; and some of the judges may recollect that it was tather
a sudden decision
CHASE, I[. I recollect that the argument was no greqt thing,
but the aourt took time nd consideredthe cse well. The reason of
tie legislature tbr putting seiztires of this kind on the admiralty
side of the court was the great danger to the revcnte it such cases
should be left to the caprice of jtbries

FEARUARY, 1808.

447

Yonese.- It is objected that it does not appear upon Taz UIITED
the face of the libel that the -seizure was made upon "
.
waters navigable from the sea by vessels of ten abd more B
cv
.
tons burthen. But it is stated in the libel that the yes- \.y'%./
sel was more than ten tons burthen," that the seizure
was made in the port of Alexandria, and that the vessel
had sailed from that port to the West-Indies, and back
to Alexandria, fioin whence it necessarily follows, that
the waters of the port of Alekandria are navigable from
the sea by vessels of ten and more tons burthen. Besides, this court is bound to take notice of the ports of
entry for foreign vessels established by law; and the
port of Alexandria is one of those ports.
In the case of The Vengeance, the court officially
took notice that the bay of Sandy-Hook contained waters navigable, &c.
If the jurisdiction appears by necessary inference
from what is stated, it is sufficient.
C. Lee, contra.
By the 3d article of the constitution of the United
-States, the judicial power of the United States is extended " to all caseiof admiralty andraaritimdjuridiction." Congress could not make cases of admiralty
and maritimejurisdiction ; and under that clause of the
constitution they could not give their cdurts jurisdiction
of a case which was not of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction at the time of the adoption of that constitur
tion. The question, then, is, whether, according to
the understanding 6f the people of this country at that
time, a seizure ef a vessel, within the body of a county, for breach of a municipal law of trades was a case
of admiralty cognizance.
It certainly was never so
considered in England, from whence/we draw all our
ideas of admiralty jurisdiction. All seizures in that
country for violation of the laws of revenue, trade, or
navigation are tried by a jury in the court of exchequer
according to the course of the common law. There is
nothing in the course of proceedings in ren which requires that they should be in a court of admiralty. A
V1. [V.

3 T.

SUPREME COURT. U. S..
of common law is as competent to the trial of such
as a c6urt, of admiralty. The high court of adV.
BETSA-, &C. miralty in England exercises no original jurisdiction in
revenue cases. It hears only appeals in such cases from
the vice-admiralty courts in the oolonies, to whom the
jurisdiction is give6 by an act of parliament. 2 Browne,
ivil Law, 492. 2 Rob. 189, The Sarah. 4 Inst. 13W.
139. 2Browne, 75. 78. 3 B1. Comm. 106. Parker,
THEU$rr1D court
S f-ATES
cases

2S. 273.

Nor were such cases ever supposed by the people of
this country to be rightfully classed among causes of
admiralty. It was'one of our serious grievances, and
of which we complained against Great Britain in our
remonstranecs to the King, and in our addresses to the
people of Great Britain,' while we were colonies, that
the jurisdiction of the courts of vice-admiralty was
extended to cases of revenue. Yournals of the old Cohgress, vol. 1. p. 47. Such being the understanding of
.the people of this country at theoad6ption of the constitution, we are to presume that the words " cases of admiralty and maritimejurisdiction,"did not include cases
of seizure like the present. The 9th section of the judiciary act (vol. 1. p. 53.) is to be construed with a reference to the meaning of tlfose expressions in the constitution ; and if it cannot, consistently with the'force
of its terms, be reconciled with the constituti6n, it
must yield to the superior obligation of that instrument.
The words of that se'ction .of the act, as far as they affect the present question, are, " and shall also have exclusive original cognizance of all civil 'causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including all sei;zures
underlaws of impost, navigation, or trade, of the United States, where the seizures are'made on waters which
are navigable from the sea by. vessels of ten or more
tons burthen, within their respective districts as well as
upon the high seas : saving to suiters, in all cases, the
right of a cominon law remedy, where the common law
is competent to give it * and shall also have exclusive
original cognizance of all seizures on land, or other
waters than as aforesaid, made, arid of all suits for
penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the
Unitec'States." " And the trial of issues in fact in the

FEBRUARY, 1808.

449

district courts, in all causes, except civil causes of ad- TnaUU.TrD
STATES
miralty and maritime jurisdiction, shall be by jury."
V.
BE
PTSE'Y, &C

The ,word "including,!' means onjy, moreover, or,

au well as.
The district court shall have exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, including, within its exclusive original
cognizance, all seizures, &c. It does not mean incltding within the expression " all civil causes of admiralty,". &c. If such cases of seizure were civil causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, there was no necessity to enumerate them, because the expression, all
civil causes of admiralty, &c. cirtainly iticluded them.
If they were not civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdictioi, congress could not make them such, nor
by forcing them into that class, deprive the citizen of
his right to a trial by jury. Congress had no such intention, -for inthe very same breath they say, "saving
to suiters, in all cases, the right of a common law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it."
We have seen that in all cases of seizure for breaches
of the lawi of revenue, trade or navigation, the common law is competent to give a remedy; and consequently this suiter is entitled to it.
T~e several acts 6f congress creating forfeitures for
breaches of the laws of revenue, &c. all seem to refer
to the"exchequer practice, rather than to that of the admiralty.
In the act for registering vessels, passed the 31st of
-December, 1792, (Oswald's edition of the Acts of Congress, vol. 2. p. 134. 144. sect. 4. and 16.) if the owner shall take a false oath, " there shall be a forfeiture of
the vessel, &c. or of the value thereof, to'be recovered
with costs of suit," of the person taking the false oath.
So in case of the sale of a vessel to a foreigner it shall
be forfeited in a certain case, "provided that if it shall
be made appear to the jury before whom the trial for
such forfeiture shall be had, that," &c. and the penalties and forfeitures, under that act were' to "be sued
for, prssecuted and recovered," in such courts. &c

450

SUPREME COURT U. S.

T n UN TED as penalties and torfeiturcs under the act for the collec.
STATES
tion of duties, &c. - Hence it is evident that congress
V.
3ETsEY, &C.

intended that all cases of forfeiture should be tried by
jury. The expressions in the act respecting registering of vessels, explain what may otherwise appear
doubtful in the act concerning the collection of duties,
as to the mode of prosecution.
So in the act suspending intercourse with France, vol.
1. p. 245. offending vessels are made liable to be seized,
" and may be prosecuted and condemnid in any circuit
or district court of'the United States, which shall be
holden within or for the'district where the seizure shall
be made."
But by the judiciary act no circuit court could take
original cognizance of civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction; hence it is obvious that congress
did not consider such seizures as civil causes of admiraltv, &c. The forfeiture also is to accrue to any person"" who will inform and prosecute for the same,"
which shows that the proceedings were to be at common law.
All the forfeitures under the act for the collection 9f
duties, are to be recovered in the same way. Some of
them being cases of seizure on land, must be tried by
jury, therefore all must. And in sect. 71. (vol. 4. p.
391.) it is said, " in actions, suits or informations' to.
be brought, where any seizure shall be made 'pursuant
to this act, if the property be claimed by any person, in
every such case the onus probandi shall be upon such
claimant." These expressions all indicate proceedings
at common law only.
The 89th sect. in p. 427. spedking of the recovery
of penalties, clearly refers to silits at commoi law;
and when speaking of forfeitufes, it says, "and all
ships, goods, &c. which shall becomhe forfeited in virtue of this act, shall be seized, libelled and proseculed
as aforesaid;" referring to the mode of prosecution
pointed out for the recovery of penalties. Here if the
word " libelled" had not been used there could be no
doubt. But the expression '4 libelled" relates as well to

RFEBRUARY, 180S.
seizureson land, as to seizures on water; but seizures
on land must be tried by jury according to the course
of the common law. The word libel therefore does not
refer exclusively to admiralty proceedings.
The Excise Law, vol. 1. p. 313. makes no distinction
between ieizures made at land, and those made on
water.
By the 5th amendment to the constitution, no person
shall be deprived of property, without due process of
law; which means by due process of the comzon

law.
By the 7th amendment, in suits at common law the
right of trial by jury shall be preserved, i. e. continued
as it then was. At that time all municipal seizures
were triable at common law.
,The act prohibiting the intercourse with bt. Domingo
differs from that under which the Vengeance was prose-

cuted.
There the mode of prosecution was declared to be
the same as for penalties and forfeitures under the act
for collecting duties ; but here no mode of prosecution
is prescribed.
The act creates two offences.
.1. Sailing to St. Domingo without being destined for
that island.
2. Being destined and sailing for a prohibited port
without arriving there. The offence of destination is
an offence on land and to be tried by the course of the
common law. Hence also it may be inferred that the
other offence is to be tried in the same manner. No
difference is made by the statute.
The act requires bonds to be given which are forfeited if the*offence has been committed. Suits at common
law upon these bonds are now pending. If these had
been tried first .he facts must have been decided by a

TurU.".FTD
V.
STAr
BETSEY,

Et.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
a1U~uvry

SrArrs
B

V

jury, and by the 7th amendment of the constitution,
" no fact tried by a jury, shall he otherwise ie-examin-

. ed in any court of the United States than according to
rules of the common law." The consequence would
have been that this case,. involving the same fact, between the same parties, could not have been otherwise
tried than by a jury. It could not have been the intention of congress that in one case the same fact should
be decided by the judge, and in the other IRy a jury.
Sthe

The case of the Sally was decided upon the authority
of that of the.Vengeance, without argument; and is
therefore of no authority.
Rodney, -Attorney-General, in reply, was stopped by
the court as to the lay of the case.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The court considers the law as
completely settled by the case of the Vengeance. A
distinction has been attempted to be drawn between
this case and that, but the court cqn see no difference.
It is the place of seizure, and not the place of committing the offence, which decides the jurisdiction.

It has been said the word " including" ;means Moreover, or as well as ; but if this was the meaning of the.
legislature it was a very embarrassing mode of expressing the idea. It is clear that congress meant to discriminate between seizures on waters navigable from
the sea, and seizures upon land or upon waters not navigable ; and to class the former among the civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
The only doubt which could arise would be upon the
clause of the constitution respecting the trial by jury.
But the case of the Vengeance settles that point.
The sentence of the circuit court was reversed, and
that of the diitrict court affirmed.

