384

SUPREME COURT U. S.

YoU.G
V. .

BAt-x o.

YOUNG v. THE BANK OF ALEXANDRIA.

DRIA.

An appeal

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Colum-

or writ of er.-

ror lies from bia, sitting at Alexandria.
the judgC Simms, for the defendant in error, having obtainments of the
circuit court ed a rule on the plainti in error,to show cause why the

of the district

oferrsIudntb

of Columbia, writ of error should not be quashed,
to this court,

Lee, and zones, now showed cause;
.. L.
Tounge,
where. the
bank of Alex- and read a printed paper produced by the other side,
purptirting to b6. the act tf assembly of Virginia, of 1792,
andrid is
plaintiffi, and incorporating the bank, and giying them a right to obthe judg- " tain judgments against their debtors at the first term,
ments -below
are in its fa- withbut appeil or writ of error, another printed paper,
vour,notwith- also prod-aced by the other, side, purporting to be the
standing the actof-essnibly of Virginia, of the 21st of Jantdary, 1801,
clause in its
charter to the continuing the act of 1792; juntil the year.1811, which
would otherwise have expired in the year 1803 ; the act
contrary.
The right of congress of the 27th of.February, 1801, erecting-the
of Virginia to cir
legislate for ircuit court for the district of Columbia, and providing
that part I for an .appeal or writ of error to this court, in all caqes
the district where the matter in dispute shall exdeed the value of one
of Columbia hundred dollars, with a proviso that nothing in that.act
which was
ceded by her should impair the-rights granted by, or derived from the
tr the United acts 6f Incorpotation of any body 'corporate within the
States, conti- district ; the act of assembly of Virginia, of 1789, ceding
untilthe
nued
27th of"
Fb- to the United States a terrhory for the seat of their goin cases

ruary, 1801. vernment, and the act of congress of 1790, accepting
The' act of the cession.
Virginia incorprating

the bank of

They contended,

Alexandria is
a pu'olic law.

1. That when the legislature of Virginia passed the
1801s continuing the act of
act of 21st of Zanuary,
rae18fcotnighectf
acts of2ssem- 1792. which incorporatel the bank, the state of Vir gia

wheq0uere,
private
ther

bly of Virginia printed'by
the public
printer ofthat

hid no power to legislate for the district of Columbia,
and therefore could not give continuance to the act of
1792, as a law in that district. The consequence of

FEBRUARY, 1808.

385

which is, that there is now no law in the district of Columbia which gives to the bank any exclusive privilvges.

You=
V.1
ALzxAU-

2. That the act of.Virginia, of 21st of January, 1801,
D IA.
was not adopted as the law for the district of Columbia, -"
state, under
by the act of congress of 27th of.February, 1.801.
th authority
of lawmrray be
3. Thatiftheactof 21st of January, 1801, was adopt- read in evied as to its generalprovisions, yet so much of it as takes dence with.
Away the right of appeal was not adopted, because incon- out other a.
thentleation.
sistentwith that part of the adopting law, which gives an
appeal or writ of error, in all cases where the matter in
dispute exceeds the value of 100 dollars.
4. That the acts of 1792, and 21st ofJanuary, 1801,
were private acts, and that the papers read, purporting'
to be those acts, were not sufficiently authenocated, and
could not'be noticed by the court.

The points being opened, the court requested to hear
the counsel on the other side.
C. Simnw, for the bank.
The first question is, whether the right of Virginia to
legislate for the-district of.Columbik *ceased on the 1st
Monday in December, 1800, when the district became
the seat of the'national government, or on the 27th of
Febru'ary, 1801, when congress first provided by law for
the government of the district under thir'ju.risdiction.
By the act of assembly of Virginia, passdd on the 3d of
December, 1789, for the cession of a territory, for the
permanent seat of the general governmbnt, (Revised
Code, p. 52.) it is enacted,'" that a.tract of country, not'
exr-eeding ten miles square, or an) lesser quinity, to
be located within the limits of this state, and in -any part
thereof as congress may by law direct, shall be, and.the
same -is hereby, forever ceded and relinquished to the
congres and government of the United States, in full
and absolute right and exclusive jurisdiction, as well of
soil as of persons residing or to reside thereon, pursuant
to the tenor and effect of the.8th section of the 1st article
of the constitution of government of the.United States."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
YouxN

V.
ALEXANPRIA.
'cepted

" Provided, that the jurisdiction of the laws of this
cominonwealth, over the persons hind property of indivduals residing within the limits of the cession aforesaid,
shall not cease or determine, until congress, having acthe said cession, shall by law provide for the government thereof, under their jurisdiction, in manner
provided by the article of the constitution beflore recited."
By the act of congress of 16th of July, 190, for establishing the temporary and permanent seat of the government of the United States, vol. 1. p. 132. it is enacted ' that a district" of territory, not exceeding ten
miles square to be located, as hereafter directed on the
river Potomac, at some place between the mouths of
the Eastern-branch,and Connogochegue,be, and the same
is hereby accepted for the permanlent seat of the government of the United States ; provideat'nevertheless, that
the operation of the laws of the state, within such district, shall hot be affected by this acceptance, until.the
timefixed for the rem6val of the government thereto,
and until congress shill otherwise by law provide.
The time for the removal of the government to the district, was by the same act fixed to bd the 'first londay
in December, 1800.
The government having been on that day removed to
the district, congress did -not by law provide for the
government thereof, under their jurisdiction, until the
27th of February, 1801; until which day, we contend,
the jurisdiction of the laws of Virginia, or in other
words the right of Virginia to legislate for the district,
did not -cease or determine. Virginia had therefore a
right to pass the act of 21st of January, 1801, which
was consequently one of the existing laws bf Virginia,
in the district of Columbia, or the 27th of February,
1801, when congress enacted, "that the laws of Virginia
as they nou'exist, shall be and continue in' force in that
part of the district of Colambia, which was ceded by the
said state to the United States, and by them accepted for
the permanent seat .ofthe government."

IFBR:UARY, 1808.
Thdre are only two instances in which congress have
referred to the ist Monday of December, 1800, as the
period of separation, viz. in the act of'id 2arch, 1801,
s. 7. vol. 5. p. 290. authorising the sheriffs of tlhe ad-joining counties in Maryland and Virginia, to proceed
to collect taxes ana officers' fees, due before that day;
and in the act of May 3d, 180c, s. 13. vol. 6. p. 183.
which refers to the militia-laws ot the states of Maryland
add Virginia, as they stood in force in the district, on
the 1st Monday of December, 1800.
The right of the bank to obtain judgment against their
debtors at the first term without appeal, is a right granted to them by their act of .incorporation, and is therefore saved by the proviso of the statute of 27th February,
1801, .and is-therefore ad exception to the general clause,

which gives a right of appeal in all cases.
But"it is contended that the acts of Virginia, incorporating the bank of Alexandria, are private acts, and
that the printid papers now produced ought not to be regarded by the court as evidence of the existence of such
acts. The acts which we read to the court, are found
printed with, and bound up among the public acts of the
commonwealth. The title-page declares the book to
contain the acts of assembly of the commonwealth -of
Virginia, and to be printed by Augustine Davis, who,
we are ready to prove, was the public printer for the years
'when those laws were passed. By the act of assembly
of Virginia, of 22d January, 198, the public printer is
to be appointed'annually, by the joint ballot of both
houses, and it is male his duty to publish all laws passed
during the session. _(NewvRevised Code, 382.) "The executive is 'also bound by law, to send copies of all the
laws, when printed, to the clerks of the cbuts, &c. and
by another statute, private acts of assembli may be given
ifi evidence, without pleading them specially. (New.Rev.
Code, 59. 112.)
There is a difference between the laws of Virginia,
ana those of En$land, respecting the authentication of

private acts.

In England they are never printed nor

ptomulgated, btit remain with" the clerk of parliament.

But in Virginia they are printed and promulgated by the

Yom:rc
Y.
A,,x,-

B.%zm or
Da.

388

Youxa
V.,

]DANK or
ALEXANDRI A.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

authority of the legislature, and are as well authentic" ted
as public acts.

BUt this is a public act.
CHASE, J. The act makes it felony to counterfeit the
notes of this bank. Does not that make it a public act?

MARSHALL, Ch. J. said, that the opinion of the
court was 'very strong, that this is apublia act; and that
f if were not, it being printed by the public printer, by
order of the legislature, agreeably to a general act of assembly for that purpo~e, it ihust be considered as sufficiently ,atthenticated. But that the court would not
prevent counsel from arguing ehe point, if they thought
they could support the contrary opinion'; which the
counsel decliped attempting.

At the opening of the court, on the next morning,
qungs, for the plaintiff in error, being about to re-

ply),"

MARSHALL, Ch. J. said, the court is so much of
o:pinion that the point is decided by the case of Wilson
"and. ason, (ante, vol. 1. p. 91.) that they are inclined
to hear the other side.

By the Virginia land law, no appeal or writ of error
is allowed" in caveats ; and by the compact between
Virginia and Kentucky, that law was immutable ;, yet
this court, in Wilson and Mason, decided that the act of
congress which gives a writ of. error in all cases, so far
repealed the state law, as to prevent it from operating
upon the United States court, for the district of Kentucky.
JOHNSON, J. Peffhaps a distinction may be drawn between.that case and this. If the bank of Alexandria
had a vested right uider the act of incorporation, it
is saved by the proviso in the act of 27th of February,
1801.

FEBRUARY, 1808.

The Court, thereupon directed Youngs to proceed in
his argument.V.

Youizo
sr tB or
ALE'XAN-

Toungfs, for the plaintiff in error.

DMA.

By the 8th section of the ist article of the constitution
of the United States, power is given to congress, " To
exercise exclusive legislation over such district, not exceeding ten miles square, as may by cession of particular states; and the acceptance of congress, become the
seat of the government of the United States." The moment the district became the seat of government, congress had the right of exclusive legislation over it.
There could be no concurrent rights of exclusive legislation. The idea is absurd and impossible. There can

be but one right of exclusive legislation, and by the constitution of the United States, it was vested in congress.
It is not necessary that congress should have exercised
the right in order to vest it in themselves. It must have
vested in them before they could exercise it. The district of Columbia, both in law and in fart, became the
seat of government of the United- States, on the 1st
Monday of December, 1800. From that moment the
right of the state of Virginia to legislate over the
district ceased. It could make no law to affect the
property, or persons withiin it. Virginia did not at-tempt it. She knew sh had no power, and therefore
she has used language appropriate only to her own territory. She has authorised the stockholders to choose their
directors in the .state of. Virginia, out of the district.
She speaks of the town of Alexandria, as being "'in
that part of the district'of Columbia, which heretofore
formed a part of this commonwealth."
Threb things only weee necessary to vest the exclusive
power.of legislation in congress. A cession of territory
by some of the states-an acceptanc6 by congress-and
the ceded territory being actually the seat of the government of the United States. These events had all happened on the first Monday of December, 1800.

No fur-

ther act was necessary. The right to legislate was complete and exclusive whether congress exercised it or
not.

390
Youxo

V.. or
BANK"
ALEXADIA.

SUPREME COURT U. $.

But it is said that, if Virginia could not legislate foi
the district of Columbia, yet she could lgislate for herself; and congrtss-by the act of 27th February, 1801.
adopted all her.laws as they ,then existed.
As they existed where?. we say, as ttiey then. existed in the district of Columbia;'that was the territory
over which congtess was' legislating, and their object
was merely to continue in force the'laws, then existing
in the district.
If Virginia had no right to legislate for the district of
Columbia, when she .passed the act of the 2'lst of January, 1801, that act was not in force, and did not exist,
as a law, in. the district of Columbia, on the 27th 'bf
February, '1801 ; and if it did not then exist as a law in
;he district, it could not be cohtihued in force ly the act
of congress. The words of the act of congress are, '. the
laws of the state of Virginia as they now exist shall be
and continue in force, in that part of the district," &c.
The legislatures of Virginia, and of the United States,
both began their sessions on the same first, Moiday of
December, 1800. It is not'possible that congress, when
they had passed the act of-the 27th of February, 1801,
should know what acts Virginia had passed at.that sedsion. The laws of that sesgiou were not then .promul-*
gated ; and it cannot be supposed that congress meant
blindfold to adopt whatever Virginia should chuse to
enact. It cannot be.presumed thaf congress would have
adopted the act of 21st of January, 1801, if they had
known it, because it was equivalent to giving the lank
of Alexandria a new charter ; and to "give any bank a:
charter by a law of the United States, prior .to the 4th
of iVarch, 1811, is to violate the public faith, pledged
to the 1ankl of the United-States. If thbrefbre a doubt
can be raised ad to-the intention of the United States,
this court will not give the law such a construction as
would violate the public faith
There is another objection to that part of the act of
Virginia, which gives excluive privileges to the bank
of Alexandria.

FEBRUARY, 1808.

391

It is directly. repugnant to the bill of rights of VirYouNr
gV.
ginia, the fourth article of which declares, "that nor
man, or set ofnen,, are entitled to exclusive or separate ALXXANzai,.
emoluments, or privileges from the community, but in
consideration of public services."
MARSHALL, Ch.

J. We will consider that point

when we come to the general merits of the case.

2oxngs. - But if the court should quash the writ of
error, they will never hear the merits.
CHasE, J. But if it be contrary to the constitution of
Virginia, are -we to decide upon its unconstitutionality?
I must say I think we cannot.
E. 7. Lee, on the same side.

We do not contena tnat the bank has iocharter; ,we
admit that the bank still exists as a corporate body in
Virginia, and may there exercise all its functions, choose
its officers, keep its banking house, and transact its business. But we say it -has no peculiar privileges in the
courts of the United States. We deny it has existence
as a.corporate body in the district of Columbia, and
that the court below- is bound by any of the remedies'
which the bank is entitled to in the courts of Virginia,.
by virtue of any law of Virginia, pa~sed since the first
Monday in December, 1800. It never had a right to
its simmary remedy in the courts of the United States,
and therefore no such right could be saved by the proviso in the act of the 27th of February, 1801. We con-

sider the case of Wlson and Mason as decisive.
Swann, contra.
.There is a distinction -to be taken between this case
and that of Wilson and Mason. ,There the right of appeal was a constitutiqnalright. It grew out of the constitution of the United States, which gave to the courts
of the United States jurisdiction between citizens of different states, and to this court its appellate power. This
is the ground taken by the court in delivering its opinion
in-that case.
Vol. IV.

3D

SUPREME COURT U. S.
YOUNG

B .ANY*
ALrCA.NDRIA.

-

But the right of appeal in this district is ndot a consti.
legistinlrgt.TecutsoOhsdititae
tutional
right. The courts of ihis district -re offlgs
lative, not of constitutional creations. The power of this
court to hear appeals from the circuit court of this district, is a power not derived from the constitution. This
district is like a state, and congress legislates for it as a
state legislature would for a state.
The act of the 21st of January, 1801, was an existing
law operating upon this part of the district on"the 27th
of February,, 180 . On the 21st of Janury, 1801, the
jurisdiction of Virginia in all respects -whateverexisted
over this district, and continued until congress by an
act assumed the 'jurisdiction. Congress had power to
exercise exclusive legislation, but was not bound to
exercise it. Until they chose to "exercise it by providing for the governmet of the district, the jurisdiction of the laws of Virginia was not to cease.
What is the jurisdiction of the laws, but the jurisdiction
of the commonwealth ? The jurisdiction of the laws
comprehends the whole jurisdiction. If not the -whole
jurisdiction, what part does it comprehend ? It was
intended that there should be no interregnum, no time
in which the inhabitants of the district should be without laws, and without the meant of enforcing them.
The jurisdiction of the courts and officers was to continu*, as well as the laws, to be considered as mere
rules of conduct.
It is evident by the act of February 2?, 1801, that
congress consideied the district as remaining under the
jurisdiction of Virginia until that day.
The legislature of Virginia had the same understanding. The act of the 21st of January, 1801, says, the
charter of the bank is hereby continued, whih they
could not do, unless they had jurisdiction. The court
of Hustings of Alexandria was also* holden in Janusry
and February, 1801, by the justices holding their 6ffices
under Virginia.
Iere then wis the concurrent understanding of the
congress, of the legislature of Virginia, and of the courts
of that part of the district..

FEBRUARY, 1808.
. But'even if the power of Virginia to legislate for the
istrict hadcesed, the act of21st of January, as a
law in Virginia on the 27th of February, 1801, and as
such was adopted by the act of congress of that date.
It is said that congress cannot -be supposed to intend
to adopt the laws "ofthe session of Virginia, whiqh began on the 1st Monday- of December, 1801, because
congress cannot be presumed to have had. knowledge of
them. But congiess cannot be presumed to have had
knowledge of all the laws whichweie in existence, in
Maryland and Virginia, before that period. Yet they
adopted, them. They took them. upon trust; and they
had as much. reason t o adopt those of the session of
1800-1801, as those of any former period.
C. Simms, on the-samne side.
It is admitted that the jurisdiction of Virginia did not
pease by the act of cession of 1789, nor by die act of
acceptance bf 1790; why should it ceas on the first
Monday of December, 1800 ? We say four things wete
necessary to divest the jurisdiction of Virginia.-1. The
cession. 2.' The acceptance. '3. The removal of the
seat of. government to the district, and 4. The aet.ial
providing by congress, for the government of tht district
under their jurisdiction. Only three of these four
events had happened ori the first Monday of Decqraher, 1800.
What reason is there for supposing that Virginia retained'an executive and a judicial jurisdiction over the
district, and not a legislftive jurisdiction also.7 If ahe
could lefsieat for the district, ahter the cession and
acceptance, she retained that power until congress pfovided for the government of the district.
By the act of cession in 1789, indiVidual ights wer,6
not to be in'paired by the change of jurisdicdon when,
ever it should take place. This provision applied not to
rights then existing, but to any which might be acquiied.
under the-haivs of Virginia, before the actual transfer of
the jurisdiction ; so thit there was a pledge of the pub-ic faith, in favour 'o the bank of Alexandria, prior to

Youz
V.
BAN or

AL

AU"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
YoUZG

B4.

01

AT.XAND$IA.

that in favour of the bank of the United States. Before
the transfer of jurisdiction, also, the bank of Alexandria had acquired a right to the summary remedy without appeal
The plaintiff in error had no right to complain of the
exercise of that summary remedy in his case. He
knew the rights of the bank before he obtained their cre,dit, and became their debtor.
The decision of this court in W*'ilson and Mason, war
predicated upon the principle that no act of a state legislature could deprive the courts of the United States of
their jurisdiction ; but here the act takink away the
right of appeal, has been adopted by congress, and
therefore is in fact a law of the United States.
Jones, in reply.
If the decision be against the bank, it will only go to
deprive them of an odious and oppressive prerogative
which they have assuined. They may still enjoy the
benefits of their charter in Virginia.
The distinction attempted to be drawn between this
case, and that of Wilson and Mason, is not founded in
fact. The constitution of the United States gives to
this court appellate jurisdiction in all cases arising under
the constitution and laws of the United States, with
such exceptions, and under such regulations as congress shall make.
The cases which occur in the district" of Columbia,
under the exclusive legislation of congress, are all cases
which arise under the constitution and laws of the United States. Congress has not only, not excepted them
from the jurisdiction of this court, but has regulatedthe
mode by which they may be brought before it.
The circuit court of the district of Columbia is a
branch of the judiciary of the United States. It holds
by the same tenure as every other court of the United
States, and exercises a part of the judicial power of the
United States, and this court exercises its appellate ju-

FEBRUARY, 1808..
rjsdictionas nuch under the constitution in these cases,
as in any other.
It cannot be supposed that the constitution intended
congress should create judges and courts, independent
of the constitution.
The same general question theretore occurs in this case
as in that of Wilson andMason; and is to be decided by
the same principles.
If it was intended to say that the general jurisdiction
of Virginia should continue until congress should legislate for the district, the legislature of Virginia, and congress would have said so expressly, and not used the
limited expression , "jurisdiction of the laws," and
"operation of the laws." The power oflegislatioumay
cease, and yet the jurisdiction of the laws remain, and
the officers of justice still continue to exercise their functions by virtue of the compact. Such is the case in conquered and ceded countries. They generally, by treaty,
remain under-the jurisdiction of the old laws, and old
officers, until new laws are enacted, and new officers
appointed ; and yet it is not contended that the old
sovereign can legislate for them.
The actor congress accepting the territory, either explains or restricts the act of cession. It uses the e-xpres-son, "operation of the laws" instead of "jurisdiction
of the laws."
We contend they mean the same thing, i. e. that the
laws shall remain as the rule of conduct, until altered
or repealed by congress. Virginia and the United
States were two sovereigns treating respecting a cession
of territory. They agree that the cession shall take effect upon a certain event, and that the laws then existing
in the ceded territory, shall continue until the new government shall otherwise provide.
.i mis cession took effect on the 1st Monday of Decemher, 180q, and by the terms of the cession and acceptance, the laws then in force in the district were to continue in operation until congress should provide for the

You,G
BAV 0.
ALz..Y-

Vail%.

396

SUPREMERCOUIRT U. S.

government thereof. The laws..then. which were in
force in th6 district, on the 27th of February, 1801,
BANx or
ALrXJL2* °were those only which were in force on the-fifst M n]DIA.
day of December, 1800. By the act of 27th of February, congress declares that -the laws of Virginia as
they now exist, shall be and continuein force, &cs. Tho
YaIING

V.

expression is not, which now exist, but ai the -nbw

exist, which, is descriptive of the manner in which they
exiited ; that is by virtue of the cession and aceptane.
i larch 12.
P4AiSEALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of thecurt

as follows, viz.'
This is i motion to.quash a writ of error which has
issued to a judgment obtained by the bank of Alexandria in the circuit court for the district of Columbia sittiag in Alexandria. "In support of the motion, it -is
contended that no writ of error lieq to such a j udg.
ment.
The words of the act of congress of February, 1861,
by which the circuit court for the district of Colpmbia
was erected, are these : " Any final judgment; order
or decree, in the said circuit court, wherein the matter
in dispute, exclusive of' costs, shall exceed the value of
one hundred dollars, may be re-examined, and reversed
or affirmed, in the *supreme court of the United States,
'by writ of error 9r appeal."
Upon the operation of this clause in the "act concerninig the district of Columbia," no doubt could be
entertained, were it not produced by the, last section,
which enacts that nothing in that act contained" shall in
any wise alter, impeach or impair the rights granted by
or derived from the acts of.incorpdratioti of Alexandria
and Georgeto%n, or of any other body corporatw or politic within the district."

The state of Virginia bad, in Novefnher; 1792, passed an act for establishing a bank in 'the town of Alexandria, which act incorporated th&bank, at)d, in addition
to the privilege, of summary process for the recovery

FEBRUARY, M80s.
of debts, deprived their debtors of the right of appeal.
In January, 1801, the legislature of Virginia passed
an act continuing the charter of the bank to the 4th of
March in the year 1801, and authorising them to transact business in the county of Fairfax.
It is the opinion of the majority of the court, under
the terms of the cession and acceptance of the district,
that the power of legislation remained in Virginia until
it was exercised by congress.
But the question recurs, whether that part of the act
of Virginia which takes away the right of appeal, taken
in connection with the act of congress passed in Feb'ruary, 1801, is now in operation.
The words of the act of congress being as explicit
as language can furnish, must comprehend every case
not completely excepted from them. The saving lause
in the last section only saves existing rights ; it does
not extend those rights, or give new ones. The act incorporating the bank professes -to regulate, and could
regulate, only those courts which were established under
the authority of Virginia. It could not affect the judicial proceedings of a coart of the United States, or of
any'other state.
There is a difference between those rights on which
the validity of the transactions of the corporation depends, which must. adhere to.those transactions every
where, and those peculiar remedies which may be bestowed on it. The first are of general obli.gation ; the
last, from their nature, can only be exercised in those
courts which -the power making the grant can regulate.
The act of incorporation, then, conferred on the bank
of Alexandria a corporate character, but could give that
corporate body no peculiar priviieges in the courts, of
the United States not belonging to -it as a corporation.
Those privileges do not exist, unless conferred by an
act of congress.

Yoano
V.
or
or.
DA.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The mere saving in an act of congress which expreshly renders all judgments of. he cicuit court, for a larger
sum than one hundred dollars, re-examinable by writ
of error in this court, cannot be considered as exempting judgments rebdered in favour of the bhnk, from the
operation of this general enacting clause respecting
writs of, error. 'If the act of March, 1801, be considered as giving the batik a right to proceed in the circuit court for Alexandria, in the same manner as by
the act of incorporation, it might proceed in Virginia,
yet- that act does not affect the writ of error as given in
the act of the 27th of February.

You'
BAK or

ALZXANy

The motion is, therefore, overruled.

SPIERS v. WILLISON.

SpiRSa
V.

W LLISO'.

By the act of
assembly of
Virginia
of
1758, no gift

of a slave
was valid, unless in writing
and recordd ;
but parol evi-

dence may be
given of the

existence of a
show the

a-

tore of possession which
accompanied

ERROR to the district court for the district of Kentucky, in an action of detinue for certain slaves.
The plaintiff below, Rebecca Willison, claimed title to
the slaves under her grandmother, and at th trial offered jarol proof that the grandmother, while Kefitucky
was a part of Virginia, had given them to her by a deed,
which was lost. To this testimony the defendant below
(the plaintiff in'error) objected, and prayed the court to
instruct the jury that the said deposition was not legal
evidence in this cause ; and that atthe time this gift ivas
supposed to be made, no gift of a slave in Virginia was
valid unless made in writing, which writing was afterwards reducedto record; which motion was ovdrruled
bv the court, ahd the defendant excepted.
'P. B. Key, for the plaintiff in error, cbntedded, that
as there could be no valid gift of a slave but by deed in
writing and recorded, no paro evidence could be given
of the existence of such a deed and of its contents, unless it wvere first proved not only that the deed itself was

