FEBRUARY, 18os.
instruction which the court in -Kentucky ought to have
given.

RAISA.
V.

The opinion of the court was only that a parol gift to
the defendant, accompanied by possession, did not bar
the plaintiff's right to recover.
This court gives no opinion as to the title acquired by
the possession.
Judgment affirmed.

STEAD'S EXECUTORS v. COURSE.
Ex~cutions

C6unsc.
ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Geor- A collector,
lnd
selling
gia, as a court of equity.
i,r
tales,
must act in
Stead's executors brought their bill in equity against consformity
Elizabeth Course, the widow, z. d Caroline Course, the with the law
which
ofopower
infant daughterof DanielCourse,jdeceased,to set aside, as his
iq
and
a
collector
derived,
fraudulent, a deed of land mad6 by Courvoisie,
of taxes for Chatham county, to Daniel Course, and to the purchaser
charge the land for payment of a debt due from the late is bound ,o
-.he.
firm of Rae and gomerville to the -complainan's testator, inquire
thee be has so
according to a former decree of the court. The bill acted.
Itis incum.
charges the land as being still the estate of John Rae, deceased, formerly one of the partner in the firm of Rae bent an the
ven-dee
to
and Somerville, and that all the joint funds were ex-. provq the authority to selL
hausted.
By'the tax
of GrThere was no appearance for the defendant Caroline; laws
gnfar
1790
but the defendant Elizabeth appeared, and pleaded, that and 1791, the
her late husband, Danicl Course, pur*chased the lrad collector was
fairly and bona ftide at public sale from the tax-gatherer, a,ahorised to
for the sum of 552 dollars and 89 cents, without notice on the defiof any claim, title or interest of the complainants in the ciency of persaid land, if any they have. The plea avers that the son-l estate:
then to
consideration money was paid to the tax-gatherer; that and
sellonly so

SUPREME COURT .U. S,

404
STZAD'S

ExEctrtons

CounsZ.
\

q

much as

wvas

necessary to
pay the taxes
arr.-r.
mUnL:_r
those
laws the sale
of a whole
tradt when a
small

would

part

have

he had a right to sell the land for default' in payment of
taxes I that the taxes were, not paid at the time of sale,
which was publicly made, after legal notice ; that Daniel
Course took immediate possession,

and die4 seised

thereof, and at his death it descended to his heirs, of

whom the defendant Elizabeth is eie. The deed exhibited was dated May 5th, 1792.
The defendant Elizabeth also answired the bill, denyin- f,
.

ing raud, &c..

To the plea there was a replication, denying that the

beensufficient tax-gatherer ha4 a right to sell the land; that the sale
to pay the

taxes,
void.

was publicly made after legal notice, and that Daniel
Course was a fair and bona.flde purchaser, for.a valuable
consideration, without notice ; and averring that the
pretended sale and conveyance were unfair, fraudulent
and void.
On the 17th of tMa'y, 1805, the circuit sustained the
plea, iihd dismissed the bill with posts.
The evidence and facts stated in the record ate as
follow:.
1. The advdrtiiement of the sale, in these words:
"Salefor Tuxe&.
"VWill be sold, on Saturday, the 5th'day of May, at
thecourt-house in the city qf Savannah, between' the
houis of twelve and one, 450 acres of land, lying and
being on Pipemaker's creek, county of Chatham. Also,
part of the lot No. 6, Percival ward, together with the
house thereon, seized for the payment of the taxes of

1790 and 1791.
"FRANCIS

COURVOISIE,
" T. C. C. C.',

-2. The original grant from the province of Georgia to
John Rae, dated November 2d, 1762, describing the land
as follows: "All that tract of land, containing 450 acres,
our
situate and being in the parish of Christ's Church, 'in

FEBRTUARY, 1808.

4os

province of Georgia, bounded on the north-east by the STPADS
riverSavannah, on the south-east by land of James Ed- ExzcV. GOnS
coons=.
ward Powell, Esq. on the south-west by land of Isaac
Young and land of the said John Rae, and on the northwest by Pipemaker's creek."
3. A certificate of a return of taxable property belonging to the estate of Robert Rae, made by Samuel
Hammond,Esq. for the year 1.791, viz. Chatham county,
282 acres tide swamp on Hutchinson island; 450 acres
pine barren, opposite the above, on Pipemaker's creek ;
Richmond and Franklin county, 1,400 acres oak and
hiccory land ; 56 negroes ; one four-wheeled carriage.
4. The following letter from Hammond to the collector, viz.
"Sir.
" As you are compelling me to pay the taxes
due by the estate of Robert Rae, deceased, for the years
1790 and 1791, and as I have no monies in my hands of
the estate, or able'to raise the sum due out of my own
Xesources, and the law allowing me the privilege of pointing to property of the estate, you are hereby noted toJevy
on 450 acres of land in Chatham county, laying and
being on Pipemak~r's creek.
"I am your obedient servant,
"SAMUEL

HAMMOND.

"P. Courvoisie, Tax-Collector.
" 2d April, 1792."
There was also evidence that the land came by descent
or devise from John Rae, the original grantee, to Robert
Rae, whose widow (the mother of the defendant, Elizabeth Course) afterwards married Samuel Hammond.
It was also stated as a fact, that 11the relationghip between the wife of Daniel Course and the wife of Samuel
Hammr-id, appearedto the court the only evidence from

406
S'TAD's

"'SUPREME COURT U. S.

-which it could be inferred that Course particpated in

ExF(cUTosS the fraud, or had a knowlkdg of it."
V.

COURSE.

By the tax laws of Georgia for 17.90 and 191i, tide
swamps of the first quality ar valued at 97 -shillings per
acre, second quality at 60 shillings, and third quality at
37 shillings ; pine barrens adjoining tide swamps, and
within three miles of iide water, at 15 shillings per acre;
oakand hiccory -lands-of the first quality at 15 shillings
per acre, second quality 7 shillings, third quality 4 shillings; The tax for 1790 was ten shilling4, and for 1791
six shillings, on every hundred pounds' valueof the lands.
The taxes were to be paid by the 15th of December,
and.it was enacted, that "in case of default, the collector of the county Wvhere such defaulter shall happen
shall immediately proceed against such defaulter by distress and sale of the goods and chattels, if any be found,
otherwi on the. land of-such defaulter, orso much thereof
as will pay the amount of the taxes due, with costs; and
in all such cases to make titles to purchasers of the property sold as aforesaid."
The collectors were required to close their accounts
by the 1st of March, and deliver the same to the treasurer, and after deducting two and a half per cent on all
such taites as they, shall receive, pay the remainder to
the treasurer.
P. B. Key,; for the plaintiffs in error.
1. The plea is substantially defective.
1st.- In not averring, a seisin in some person who was
liable for taxes.
2d. In not averring that there was no personal pro.
perty which might be distrained for thd taxes, for it.was
only in default of perponal property that the collector
was authorised by law to sell the land; and,
3d., In not averring that Daniel Course had not notice
of the complainants! claim before he paid.the' purchase
money.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
A purchase consists of a namber of separate acts, such

as the agreement, the deed, the payment, &c. If, before
the last act be done, he obtains notice, he gains no tide
in equity. Even if he has paid the nioney, but not received the deed at the time of notice, he is not a purchaser without notice.

The same strictness is reiquired in pleading in equity
as at common law. A plea in equity must of itself~constitute a complete defence. It can derive no aid fom
the answer. The answer cannot come into view until
the pJea be disposed of. If the plea be good the answer
is unecessary; and in considering the validity of the
.plea, every allegation of the bill, not answered by the
.
plea, is to be taken to.be true. MlIitford, 15. 177. 2t
630. Story VN.Wfindsor.
2. But if these defects of the plea should be considered as cured by the riplication, yet it appears upon the
-whole record that the facts of the plea are not true, and
that the sale cf the collector transferred no right in the
land to Dafijel Course.
Ist. The sale and conveyance were fraudulent and

void.
'2d. The collector had no authority, under the circumstances of the case, to sell; and if he had aithority, he
has not executed it legally.
1. The sale was fraudulent. The circumstances indicating fraud are, that the lands were jiabl*e in equity
to the debts of John Rae. That the taxes were not paid
for 1790 and 1791, although there was personal estate
enough in the hands of. the representatives of Robert
Rae, in whose occupation the lands were, to pay them.
This appears by Hammond's return of property, in which
he has returned 56 negroes as the property of Robert
Rae. That notwithstanding this personal property was
in his hands, Hammond, who had mari:ed Robert Rae's
widow, the mother of the defendant Elizabeth Course,
not only permitted the land to be sold for taxes, but requested it might be sold, and pointed out this very land
as the object of sale, The advertiscrhent described the
Vol. IV.

3 F

STAD'S
ENECUTons

Couns

SUPREME COURT U. S.
STEAD'S

EXeCUtoRs
CoURS1.

land by its least notorious appellation. It mentions nelther the name of the owner of the land, nor the amount
of taxes due. Hammond's son-in-law, the husband of
defendant, became the purchaser. There can be no
doubt that he must have known the situation of the estate. He kn6w it was liable for the debts of John Rae.
He knew that there was personal estate sufficient to pay
the taxes. He knew that his father-in-law ought to have
paid them; and he knew that he had directed the collector to sell the land. He knew the price which he
gave for the land was far below its value ; for the bill
states it was sold in 1799 for 2,386 dollars, and the defendant, in her answer, says that it was then sold far below its value. He and his father-in-law and their wives
were the representatives of Robert Rae, and were the
only persons, except creditors, who were interested in
the lands, These circumstances go strongly to show that
the sale by the collector was only the means used to defeat the creditors of their just debts.

Sthe

2. The collector had no authority to sell these lands
for taxes.

1st. Because there was suificient personal property, of
which he had notice by the return of Hammond.
2d. Because he was not authorised in any case to sell
more land than was sufficient to pay the taxes. The
price which Daniel Course gave at this pretended sale
was 552 dollars ; the same lands, in 1799, sold under the
decree of the court for2,386 dollars, which the defendant
in her answer says was far below their value, and yet
the utmost amount of taxes which could be claimed,
even supposing that all the taxes for 1790 and 1791, due
from the estate of Roberi Rae for property wherever
situated in Georgia, could be charged upon this one tract
of latid, would not exceed 150 dollars; and if, as we
contend, this tract is liable for its own'taxes only, the
amount could not exceed 10 or 12 dollars. All special
authorities are to be rigidly pursued and strictly construed. Cowp. 26.
3d. Because the collector could not sell after the first

FEBRUARY, 1808.
The 15th of December was .the time limited for the
debtors to pay their taxes, and from that time till the
1st of March was allowed to the collector to enforce
payment by distress and sale; and on that day he was
bound to close his accounts, and pay over the monies
collected to the treasurer. Whether he.had collected
or not, he was bound to pay; and the law did not give
him this summary remedy to indemnify himself for any
taxes he might advance. If it did, it must give him a
lien for an in'definite time, which cannot be supjosed to
have been the intention of the legislature. It is a special power, of an extrajudicial nature, to perform a
duty in a certain time, and he is bound to.pursue his
authority strictly. If he paid the taxes which he had
not collected, the power to -distrain did not continue for
his benefit. It is to be predunmed that he did his duty,
unless the contrary appears, and that he did pay the
taxes which he was bound to collect, and had failed to
collect, at the time when he was bound to close his accounts.
4th. Because the advertisement did not sufficiently
describe the land. It is simply called 450 acres of land
lying on Pipemaker's creeki without mentioning the .Savannah river, on which it was also bounded, and which
was a more notoribus object. It neither mentions the
person from whom the taxes were due, noi their
kmount, nor the name of the owner of the land. The
advertisement has no date, nor is it stated what notice
was given, nor how it was published.
There is no evidence ot the amount of the taxes due,
nor of the amount demanded; nor of the amount qf
taxes for the non-payment of which theland was sold.
It does not appear that Courvoisie was collector for
the years 1790 and 1791.
Martin, contra.
The purchaser from a collector of taxes has a good
title without deed. Upon the payment of the purchase
money, the title vests by operation of law, in the same

STZAe'
ExrCUTOUS
V.

C,

.1
S-EA D'S

ExEcuTeas

SUPREME COURT U. S.

manner as it-does in the case of a sale of lands under a
"

COURSE.

There is no fact stated in the bill to show the sale to
be fraudulent. No advertisement is required by law
in the proceedings of the collector. There is no replication to'tie answer, and therefore all the facts it contains are to be taken to be true, so far as it is responsive
to the bill.
It was not necessary to state in the plea that any person was seised of 'the land, nor who was liable for the,
taxes. The property was liable for taxes whoever might
be its owner.
When sales are made by a'public officer,. he. is presumed to do his duty, and to have complied with all
the requisites of the law, until the contrary isproved.
Every .presumption is in favour of. the pqrchase'r. The
purchaser is not bound to knew whether the taxes have
been paid or not.
-there is no evidence that there was personal propertyat the time the taxes were payable. The certficate of
Hammond was a year preceding that time ; and the
personal property might have been sold - but if there
was, the purchaser of the real estate is not to be prejudiced thereby ; it is a matter between the person liable
for taxes andthe officer who sold the land when he might
have sold the personal estate.
If an executor have power by will to sell land for
payment of debts, in case of a deficiency of personal
assets,, and he sells,'although the personal assets were
sufficient, yet the purchaser of the land will be protected. 1 .Eq. Ca. Ab. 358; 359. *2 . Wims. 148. 2 Cha.
Ca. 115.

The collector had a right to sell this laud to pa all
the taxes due from Robert Rae's estate, wherever situated ; and it is immaterial at what price Daniel Course
purchased the land, if the sale was fairly made.

FEBRUARY, 18o8.
Hammond was not bound to pay the taxes on this
to 1he claim of the
land, if he knew that it was liabje
•
complainants. It would have been a waste of the estate
of Robert Rae,
The imperfect description of the land is no evidence
of fraud in the collector ; he advertised it by the name
stated in the return of Hammond. He was not obliged
to describe it as lying on the Savannah. The law did
not require him to name the person who had title toor
was in possession of the land, nor the name of the
person liable for the taxes, nor their amount. There
is no proof of fraud but what arises from those circumstances, and the relationship between iAIrs. Hammond
and Mrs. Course ; and thse are only circumstances,
which at most may excite a suspicion. The presumption of law ii always against fraud. It must always be
proved. And unless it be not onlyproved, but brought
home to the purchaser, the sale cannot be set aside .
P. B. Key, in reply.
The plea admits every thing in the bill not denied -by
the plea, and although there be also an answer, and no
replication to that answer, yet the facts stated in the
answer cannot be brought in aid of the plea. It must
stand on its own foundation.
The answer cannot be brought into view until the
question upon the plea be decided.
It was not necessary for ihe bill to state all the facts
which may be given in evidence of fraud. It iq sufficient
if fraud 6e positively charged in general terms.
- The rule of law is not that every thing is to be presumed in favour of the purchaser; but that a purchaser
who claims title under a special limited autfiority, a
power naked and without interest, must show that the
power has been strictly pursued.
The doctrine advanced on the other side, that whether the taxes were due or not, the purchaser is protected in his title, is hazardous in die extreme ; it

STDArWs

ExeGuTofle
V.

C

*ouaE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
STEAD's
E=XCUTORS
V.
COURSE.

wbuld subject all our estates to the controul of a collector of taxes.
cases cited do not support the doctrine. They.
only show that, where lands are devised for the payment of debts generally, the purchaser is not bound to
see to the application of the money ; or to inquire whether there be personal estate sufficient'to pay the debts
but if lands are devised to pay certain debts specified in
a schedule, there the purchaser must see to the application of the money. The case cited from 2 P. Wims. 148.
was a case of a term for years only, which the executor
had a right to sell as personal estate.

SThe

The sound rule of law is, that no man shall be permitted to sell the estate of another, witlioutt an express
delegated authority; and he who claims under such an
authority must show that it has been strictly pursued.
Caveat emptor, when he buys property from a man who
is not the owner of it.
Property in one county could not be liable for taxes
on property in another county. There were different
collectors in different countieswho had separate and independent powers.
Mlarch 14.
MARSHALL, Ch.. J.
court, as follows:

delivered the opinion of the

The plaintiffs, who were the creditors of Rae and
Somerville, brought this bill to subject a tract of land
in the possession of the defendants to the payment of a
debt for which they had obtained a decree against Rae
and Somerville.
The defendants plead that Daniel Course, under
whom they claim by descent, is a fair purchaser, for a
valuable consideration, of the premises in question" at
a sale thereof, by the collector of taxes for the county
in which they lie, made for taxes in arrear. The defeigdant also answered, denying fratid.

FEBRUARY,

1808.

413

A replication was filed to *thisplea, and on a hearing STEAD'S
Ex&CUTOb
it was sustained, and the bill dismissed.
V.

Co unsr.

" In this case the merits of the claim cannot be examined. The only questions before this court are upon
the sufficiency of the plea to bar the action, and the
sufficiency. of the testimony to support the plea as
pleaded.
On the first point, the counsel for the plaintiff has
adduced authority which would certainly apply btrongly,
if not conclusively in his favour, if a special demurrer
had been filed to the plea : But as issue has been taken
on it, the court thinks it sufficient, since it contains, in

substance, mattter which, if true, would bar the action.
The replication puts the matter of the plea in issue,
and it is incumbent on the defendants to support it.
They prove a sale by the collector on account of taxes,
and adduce a deed conveying the premises to the purchaser. But this testimony alone is not sufficient to
support the plea. The validity of the sale is the' s u bject of controversy, and its validity depends on the authority of the collector to sell, and on the fairness of
the transaction. It would be going too far to say that a
collector selling land with or without authority, could,
by his conveyance, transfer the title of the rightful
proprietor. He 'must act in conformity with, the law
from which his power is derived, and the purchaser is
bound to inquire whether he has so acted. It is true
that full evidence of every minute circumstance ought
not, especially at a distant day, to be required. From
the establishment of s me facts, it is possible that others
may be presumed, and less than positive testimony may
establish facts. In this case, as in all others depending
-o testimony, a sound discretion, regulated by the law
of evidence, will be exercised. But it is incumbent on
the vendee to prove the authority to sell, and the%question respecting the fairness of the sale will then stand
on the same principles with any other transaction in
which fraud is charged.

$UPREME COURT U. S.
S-TED's

In examining the law under which this sale N¢as made,

the court perceives that the collector is authorised to
Counsr. sell land only on the deficiency of personal estate ; and
/then
to sell only so much as is necessary to pay the tax
in arrear. In this case a sale is made of a whole tract
of land, without specifying the amount of taxes actually due for which that land was liable and could be
sold. This i6 proceeding in a manner not strictly regular. The, sale ought to have been of so much of the
land as would satisfy the tax in arrear. Should it be
true that the land was actually liable for the whole sum
for which it sold, it would still be incumbent on &e
vendee -to prove that fact ; for it 'cannot be presumed.
Every presumption arising from the testimony in the
cause is against it.

EXECUTORs

Had this fact been established, the court is inclined
to think that the circumstances of the case as stated,
though not perhaps amounting to proof of fraud, afford
such presumptions as would render a final decree, without further testimony, unstisfactory, and that an issue
ought to have been directed on the question whether the
sale was -fraudulent or not. But if a whole tract of land
was sold when a small part of it would have been sufficient for the taxes, which at present appears to be the
case, the collector unquestionably exceeded his authority,
and the plea cannot be lustained.
It is, therefore, the opinion of the court, that there is
error in the decree of the circuit court for the district of
Georgia, in sustaining the plea of the defendants, an~d
dismissing the bill of the plaintiffs, and that the said
decree ought to be reversed and annulled, and tbe cause
remanded, with directions that the defendants shall answer over, and that further proceedings be had in the
said cause, according to equity.
Decree reversed.

