582

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The principles laid down by Millar do not militate

ArZZA1;DXR

against those which are contained in this opinion. When
he

V.

TBs. Co.

speak . of a loss which defeats the voyage, he alludes
to a loss which has befallen the 'thing insured.
The court can find in the books no case which would
justify the establishment of the principle, that the loss of
the cargo constitutes a technicaA loss of the tiessel, and
must therefore construe this contract according to its
obvious import. It is an insurance onthe ship for the
voyage, not an insurance on the ship and the voyage.
It is an undertaking for t6e ability of the ship to prosecute her voyage, and to bear any damage which she
may sustain during the voyage, not an undertaking that
she shall, in any event, perform the voyage.
It is the unanimous opinion of the court that the
judgment must be affirmed, with costs.
Judgment affirmed.

MATtHEWS v. ZANE.

MATTHRWS
V.
ZA'NE.--.,

i two cit-

-

ERROR to the State cburt of the state of Ohio, un-

zens of the der the 25th section of the 7udiciary act, vol.- 1. P. 63.
same state, in

acourt
sitof in
theira
state,

The plaintiff in error claimed title to land in the state

claim of Ohio, under the act of congress, passed in 1800, and

title under the the decision of the state court was against him.
same act of

congress, this
court has an

The defendant in error also claimed titie to the same

appellate ju- land, under the same act of congress,
risdiction

reVtse

to

and

correct the
judgment of

The question was, whether in such a case this court
had an appellate jurisdiction to revise the judgment of a

that court, in state court.
such case.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
Harper,for the defendant in error, contended, that the
reason of bestowing upon this court the power of revising
the decisions of the state courts, upon points arising under the laws of the United States, was merely to maintain the authority of the laws of the United States,
against the encroachments of the state authorities. But
that it ,was not intended to give this court the power to
revise the decision of a state court, in a controversy between two of herown citizens, claiming under the same act
of congress ; for whether the one or the other recovered,
the authority of the laws of the United States was equaUy
supported. The power was given merely to prevent the
laws of the United States from being frittered away by
state jealousies and state powers.
P. B. Key, contra, contended, that the intention was
to give an uniform construction to the laws 6f the United States ; and that whenever a state court of the highest grade shall have giverf a false construction to an act
of congress, to the prejudice of a right claimed under
such act of congress, this court is empowered to correct
the decision; and that it is altogether immaterial whether
both parties are citizens of th6 same state, or whether
both claim under the same act of congress.
The 'Court, "atfirst hesitated as to the jurisdiction, but
upon consultation together and deliberation,
MARSHAL-L, Ch. J. declared it to be the opinion of a
majority of the-judges, that this court has jurisdiction.

That the third article of the court of the United States
when considered in connexion with the statute, will not
give it a more extensive construction than it might otherwise receive.
Itis supposed that the act intends to give this court
the power of rendering uniform the construction of the
laws of the United States, and the decisions upon rights
or titles, claimed under those laws.
Vol. IV.

M^AT-UMV3

Z'

