FEBRUARY, 18O8.

2
M'ILvAzin

M'ILVAINE v. COXE'S LESSEjE.

V.

Coxes$

the 4th
by Duponceau On
9fOctbr,
THIS cause was now argued again and
rtate
ofl6the
Rawle
by
error,
in
plaintiff
and Ingersoll; for the
.of New-Jerand B. Tilghman for the defendant.
sey was comso- pletely a so
been
having
argument*
former
the
of
The report
full, it is deemed unnecessary to state more of. the ar- independent
and
gument, at this term, than will 'be sufficient to show'the state,
a right
had
addressed.
are
theto
authorities
compel
additional
which
to
points
inhabitants of

For the plaintiff in error, it was contended
1. That Daniel (Zoxe was born an alien to the state of
Neuw-.ersey; and when the revolution commenced, had
a fight to chuse his side in'a reasonable tinie, and could
not be made a'citizen of the new state against his will.
Upon this point were cited, 2 Dall. 234. Coignet v. PetI B1. Com. 21,2. 3 Dall.225-.
tit. 2 Rutherforth, 30.
Wrare v. Hylton. Plowden on alienage. 3 4. 7. 15. 19.
vol. 0. p.
24. i19. Laws of the U. S. vol. 7. p. 147.
165.

vol, 6. p. 80.

the state to
become citizesthereeof.
A person
born an the
colony of
Ncw-Jersey
year 775,
and residing
there antil
tirtyearn1777,
but %vhothecn
joined

the

British army,

naturala- and ever
2. That even if he could, contrary to his
legiance, be compelled by force to become a citizen of to the British,
to
ti e new state, his consequent allegiance to such new claiming
not exist longer be. u British
state could be temporary only, and could He
had a right decad and
than the pressure of the force existed.
to escape from that force, and to throw off that alle- and receiving
giance, if he could. Ndturat allegiance, i. e. the alle- compensatid,,n
fr
that gofrom
,ernmnat,
giance due from birth, is the only kind which by the rule
lovalty
his
oluntary
of the commotl law, cannot be shaken off.
and his suf.
and afortiori, allegiance
allegiance, by naturalization,
imposed by force, is not perpetual. No fiction can ferin8 , s
make a naturalborn subject. 7 Co. I& 38. 19. Vaughan riugt to take

280, "aawveRamsay.

I B1. Com. 369.

781. Somerville v. Somerville.

5 Ireley,jun. lands by de-

Zouch, de .7ure inter scent, in the-

16,
GenteT, 144. ed. 1659, pars 2. s. 2. )ium.
*. i ate, vol. 2. p. 280.

,Feb. term, 1803.

State os

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MILVAXNE

CO's
LESSEE.
'the

It was also contended that the doctrine relied upon fromi
Colvin's case was an extrajudicial dictum, and even
upon the principal point of that case, the judgment of
court was influenced by the known wishes of king
James. To shake the authority of that case, the counsel cited, Collectanea Yuridica, 16. 3 BiographiaBrittanicd, art.. Cox . -5 Co. 40. (b). Rapin's Hist. Eng.
qnIzo 1606, 1607. Hume's Hist..Eng. anno 1604. argrave's introduction to the case of the Post-nati. 11
State Trials, 75. id. 85. Lord Bacon's Speech. 1 H.
H. P. C. 68, 11 State Trials, 106. Lord Ellesmere'e
opinion. Sir Robert Phillips'speech in 2dpart of Car. I
anna 1028. Stat. deprerogativa regis, anno 1324.
On the part of the defendant in error, it was contended.
. 1. That whatever might be the principles of natural
law, the state of New-Jersey was sovereigd and independent, and had a right to legislate upon the subject of
allegiance, and to declare who were the citizens from
whom it was due.
That by the principles of the common law, Daniel
Coxe had a right to inherit lands in New-Jersey.
In support of these points, the following authorities
were cited. 1 B1. Con. 366. 370. The Laws of NewYersey of the 20th September, 1 77, and 29th of December, 1781. A manuscript opinion given by Lord Ken.
yon, on the 19th of February, 1784, while he was at the
bar, that the-American antenatiwere entitledto hold lands
in. England. The case of Hamilton v. Eden, decided
by ChT.. 7. Ellsworth, in North Carolina, stated in the
printed'account of the proceedings of the commissioners
under the British treaty. The case of Dr. Ingles, stated in the same proceedings.. Plowden on alienage, 19.
Laws of N. 7ersey, 27th September, 1782. Vattel, Prelilninary Discourse, s. 9. 21. 24. 25. Grotius, B. 2. C.

FEBRUARY, 18o8.
.5. s. 24.

3 Dali. 153. 162.

211

and Broun's rase, in

Scotlnd, as statedby Mr. C. Lee.*

February23.CUSHING, J. delivered the opinion of the court, as
follows.t
The court deems it unnecessary to declare an opinion
-upon a point which was much debated in this cause, whether a real British subject born before the 4th of July,
1776 ; who never from the time of his birth, resided
within any of the American colonies or states, can, upon .the principles of the common law, take lands by'
descent in the United States ; because Daniel Come, un-

der whom, the lessor of the plaintiff claims, was born in
the province of New-Jersey, long before the declaration
of independence, and resided ther.e until some time in
the year 1777, when he joined the BHitish forcei.
Neither does this case produce the necessity of dis-cruminating very nicely the precise point of time, wheu
*The case was stated by Mr. Lee, as followa:
-Alexander Brown, born in Virginia, where he always lived and.
where he died, on or aboutte year 1802, was the eldest brother, in
the elder line, bf a numerous family, some of whom always lived in
Scotland. By the death of a.collateral rel-tign in Scotland since his
death, the aescent of a landed estate was cast, and thi question aros -6
I*hether the eldest 'son of Alexander Brown, born since the year
1Z84. or his sisters born before the treaty of peace, or the eldest son
of William Brown, the second brother born before the treaty of pace
in irginia , -wherehe alwhys has lived, or the relations of the intestate
in Scotland, who always lived there, and were teal British subjects,
or any of them nherited the estate.
Upon a contestation of these rights, it was determined in the court
ef- competent jurisdiction, lately in Scotland, tht the estate descended to the eldest son of Alexander Brown, under the statute of
Anne, andthe treaty of 1794. The cause was carried by appeal to
the superior court, who affirmed the sentence in his fuvdur. By his
guardian the Young man is now in receipt of the anhual income. This
decision was made about two years ago.
CHARLES LEE.
February 4th, 1808.
t. -olss, J. didnotvoteupon thisquestion; and Tadd, J. gare.
apmon, as he had not been present at the argument.

WMqLVAIVI
V.
Coxeno

Lrzssza..

312
lI.rix

V.

~

SUPREME COVRI U. a

Daniel Coxe lgst his right of election to abanddn the
American cause, andrto adhere to. his*allegiance to the,
kiug of Great. Britain; because he remained in the state
of New-Jersey,; not only after she had declared herself
a sovereign state, but after she had passed laws by which
she pronounced him to' be" a member of, and 'in allegiance to the new government. The court entertains nof
doubt that after the 4th of October, 1776, he became a
member of the new society, entitled to the protection
of its government, and bound to that governrhent by the
ties of allegiance.
This opinlo vis predicated upon, a principle- which is.
believed to be undeniable' that the'several states which
comp'sed this union, so far at least as regarded their
municipal regulations, became entitled, from the time
when they declared themselves inde.pendent, to all the
rights and poweri of soverign states, and that they did
not 'derive them from concessions made by the British
king. The treaty of peace contains a recognition of
their independence, not a grant of it. Frorq henco it
results, that -the laws of the gsveraI state governnents
were the laws of sovereign states, and as such were obligatory upon the people of such state, from th.e time
they were enacted. We do not mean to intimate an
opinion that even the law of.a stat6, whose form of government had -been organized prior to-the 4th of July,
1776', and which passed prior to that period, would not
have been, obligatory. The present case renders it un.
necessary to be more-precise .in stating the principle
foi although-the constituti6o of New-Jersey was" formed
previous to the gnneral declaration of independence$ the
laws passed ipon the subject now under consideration
were posterior to it.' . "
Having thus asceitained the situation of.Danel Coxe,
on the.4tb 'of October, 1.76, let us see whether it was
in any respect changed by his subsequent conduct, in
relation to the new-government. Without expressing an
opinion upon thi right of expatriatioi as founded on the
common law, or upon the application of that principle to
a-person. born -in the state of. New-Jersey, before its
separation from the mother country," we think it conclusive upon the point, that the legislature of that state

FEBRUARY, 1898.

t

by the most unequivocal declarations, asserted its right to m'Ii.v% un
the allegiance of such of its citizens.as had left the state,
V.
Co,ts
and had attempted to return to their former allegiance.
"L-.
The act of the 5th of June, 1777, contains an express
declaration that all such persons were subjects of the state,
who had lieen seduced by the enemy from their allegiance. Thelaw speaks of them asjugitives not as aliens,
and they are inviied, not to become subjects, but to return to their duty, 'which the Irgislature clearly considered as still subsisting and obligatory upon them.
The inquiry which the jury is directed to make, by
the act of the 18th of April, 177$, in order to lay a
foundation for the confiscation of the personal estates of
these fugitives is, whether the person had, between the
4tth of October, 1776, and the 5th of June, 1777, joined the armies of the king of Great Britain, or otherwise aFended against the form of his allegiance to the
state. The 7th section of this law is peculiarly important, because it provides not only for past cases, which
had occurred since the 5th of June, 1777, but for all
future cases, and in all of them, the inquiry is.to be
whether the offender has joined the armies of the king,
or otherwise offended against the form of his allegiance
t6 the state.
During all this time, the real estates of these persons
remained vested in them; and when by the law of the
11th of December, 17718, the legislature thought proper
td act upon this part of their property, it was dedlaredo
be forfeited for their. oFences, not escheatable on the
ground of alienage. This last act is particularly entitled
to attention, as it contains a legislative declaration of the
poin of time, wheh the right of election to adhere to
the old allegiance ceased, and the duties df allegianceto
the new government commenced. Those who joined
th enemy betwi'en the 19th of April, 1775, and the
4th of October, 1776,' (when an express declaration upon the subject vas made,) and who had not since returned and become: subjects in allegiance to the new govern.ment, by taking the oaths of. abjuration, and allegiance,
are pronounced guilty of higlh treason, not for the put"pose
of affecting them personally, which would have

SUPREME COURT U. S.
W'ILVAIN,"

•

been most unjust; but with a view to the confiscatiotk

'v.of their estates. And consistent with this dist'inction,

LEss .

the jury are to inquire in respect to these persons; not
in the case of those who had left the state after the
4th of October, 1776, whether they hhd offended against
the-form of their allegiance, but,'whether they are offenders within this act, that'is, by hhvinl, joined the
enemy between the 19th of April, 1776, and the 4th of
October, 1776, and not having returned and becomq
subjects in allegiance to the state.

Sa

Having taken this view of the laws of New-Jerset
*upon this subject, it may safely be asserted that prior to
the tr6aty of peace, it would not have been competent,
even forthaf'state toallege alienage in Daniel Coxe in the
face of repeated declarations of the legitimate authority
of the government, that he continued, to oie alegiance
to the state, notwithstanding all his attempts to throw it
off. If he was an alien, he must have been so by the
laws of New-Jersey; but those laws had uniformly asserted, that he 'was an offender against the form of his
allegiance to the state. How then can this court, acting upon the laws of New-Jersey declaie him an alien ?
The conclusion is inevitable, that, prior to the treaty of
pe.ace, Daniel Coxe ivas entitled to hold, and had a capacity to take lands in New-Jersey by descent.
But it is insisted that the treaty of peace, operating
upon. his condition at that time, or afterwards, he became. an alien to the state bf New-Jersey in consequence of his election,"then made to become a subject of
tie king, and his subsequent conduct confirming that
election. -In vain have we searched hint instrument for
some clause or expression, which by any implication
couldvork this effect.
It contains an acknowledgment df the independence
aid sovereigiity of'the United States, in their political
capacities, and a relinquishment on the part of his Britannic majesty, of all claim to the government, propriety
and territorial rights of the same. These corcdssions
amounted, no doubt, to a formal renunciation of all claim
to the allegiance- of the citizens of the United States.
But the question who were at that period citizens of the

FEBRUARY, 1808.

21V

is not decided, or in the slightest degree alluded to in M'ILvA xn
.
this instrument ; it was left necessarily to depebd upon
,
the laws of the respective stateg, who in their sovereign
capacities had acted authoritatively upon the subject. It
left all such persons in the situation it found them, neither making those citizens, who had by the laws of any
of the states been declared aliens, nor releasing from
their allegiance, any who had become, and were claimed
as citizens. It repeals nolaws of any of the states which
were then in force, and operating upon this subject, but
on the contrary it recognises their validity by stipulating
that congress should recommend to the states, the reconside'ation of such of them as bad worked confiscations.
If the laws relating to this subject were at That period, in
the language of one 'of the counsel, temporary andfuncti
offcio, they certainly were n6t rendered go by the terms
of the treaty, nor'by the political situation -of the two
nations, in cpnsequence of it. A contrary doctrine is
not only inconsistent vith the sovereignties of che states;
anterior to, and independant of the treaty, butits indiscriminate adoption might be productive of more mischief than it is possible for us to foresee.
If then at the period of the treaty, the laws of Sew-.
Jersey which had made Daniel Coxe a subject of that

state were in full force, and were not repealed, or in
any manner iaffected by that instrument, if by force
of these laws he was incapable of throwing off his
allegiance to the state, and derived no right to do so
by virtue of the treaty, it follows that he still retains the
capacity which he possessed before the treaty, to take
= !nds
by descent in New-Jeirsey, and consequently that
the lessor of the plaintiff is entitled to recover.
Judgment must be affirmed with costs.
Vol. IV

