SUPREME COURT U. S.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1807.

THE UNITED STATES v. KID AND WVATSOk.

STATiS
V.

-

K13D AID
WAT8O2r.

THIS case was certijfiedfrom the circuit court of the Round cop.
district of Pennsylvania, upon a division of opinion per bars.,
between the judges of that court, upon the queston 'r.ud coper
whether certain articles of copper, viz. rovnd copper round copper
ars, roundcopper plates, and i-ound copper plates turned plates turned
zp at the edges, imported by the defendants, were sub- up2t tli
eges,, are
ject to. duty, within the meaning of the acts of con- not
subject to
gress ; viz.20th July,'1789--andloth ofAugkst, 1790, duty upon im.
vol. 1. p. 251. ยง 1. by which " copper in plates" is portation. exempt from duty, and the act of the 2d of _f ay, 1792,
vol. 2.p. 71. ยง 2. by which " copper in pigs and bars"
is also exempt from duty.
The jury found a special verdict, the substance of
which was, that such articles as those in question, are
of no use in the form in which they are imported, but
are worked up as- a raw material. That the round, the
-square and the fiat bars* are, by the manufacturers and
artists, known by-the denominition of "bars." ,That
all the -artclesare sold by weight, and the same price
is pai4 for round as for square or flat bars; and for
rouud plates, and round plates turned up at the edges,
:As fot square or oblong plates. "And that all the afore-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TH&UNITED

STATES
KID AND
WATsor.

said articles come under the description of bar& and
plates."
Rodne'4, Attorney Generil ,

Admitted that the case was not to be supported, on
the part of, tle United States, and that judgment must
be given for the, defendatsk.

JENNINGS v. CARSON.
V.

C aso.

The owner of -THIS was an arpeal from the sentence of the circuit
a piivateer
capturing

court for the district of Pennsylvania, in a cause civil

. andrmaritime, in which yennings was the libellant, qnd

neutral snot
liable to adecre of restthe property,

Carson the respondent ; the former claiming to be
owner of the sloop George and 'cargo, captured, in the
year 1778, by the American privateer Additiop, commaided' by Moses Griffin, of which the respondent,

or its pro. Carson, was part owner, and which was libelled and
ceeds, caie condemned, on the 31st of October, 1778, as lawful
to The
his hands.
district
Newprize, by the court of admiralty for thd state offNw
tohe hdst
courts of the Jqrsey; from which sentence of condemnation. there
United States was an appeal to the continental court of appepls, esta are courts of blishefunder authority of the old congress, where the
prize; and
have power sentence of condeipnation was, on the 23d of December,
-to carry into 1780, reversed, and restitution ordered, but never obeffectthesen- tamined. In the mean time, however, the vessel 'and
tences of the cargo had been sold by the marha of the statc court of
old continent-

al courts of
appeals in'
prize causes.
In all proceedings i,

admiralty, forpaper money, under an order of the court
contitined in the sentefice of condemnation, and it did
No
not apper what had been done with that moned.

measures were fLento enforce the decree of restitution
rem.,the court during the 61d confederation.

.has.
a thetin
right to
order
to

d

thken

On the 19th of, May, 1790, after the adoptiot of the

into custody present constitution of the United States, Jenningi filed
of the law ;his libel in the district court for the district of Pennand jt islo be sylvania, alleging that he ws -a subject. of the States

