FEBRUARY, 1808.

PEISCH AND OTHERS v. WARE AND
OTHERS,
AND

PisC,

A.C

oTaHS
WVAnE A!-U
o rtc,
&c_

THE UNITED STATES v. THE CARGG OF
THE SHIP FAVOURITE.

Wine and
spirits saved
frn a dreck

THESE cases were appeals from the circuit court
for the district of Delaware. .Peisch and others, owners of the ship Favourite and her cargo, libelled Ware
and others in the district court, for the possession of
certain goods, part of that cargo, which the latter had
saved from the ship, which had -been wrecked in the

unacbecause
Companied

Delaware Bay.

wit

are notlible

to forfiture
such

marks and
The cargo coisisted principally of wine, brandy,, certificates as

cordials, olive oil, and silks.

requi
are
by law
; nord

because they
On the night of the 26th of October, 1804, the ship 'ere removed

witbout the
Favourite,being at anchor in the Delaware Bay, parted eouient
of tie
both cables, arid was driven on to a shoal. The crew co lector, becut away all the masts ; -in the morning slie had drifted fo, e the quan.
over the shoal, but the crew not being qbld to keep her tity and quali.
clear with'the pumps, and having eleven and a half feet ty were ascertaned, and the
of water- in the hold, they quitted the ship; about 9 duties paid.
oclock, A. M; iid -went to Cape Alayfor assistanpe. The award
On the sane morning; about 10 o'clock, the ship was of arbitratora
of Lewis, 'asnipll town on the shore appointed unseenfrot'the town
a mutual
seenfromthe
owntier
of the state, of Delaware, but not a port. of entry,. by misake or
Thomias Rodney, an inspector and surveyor of the re- both parties,
, supposing
venue who resided at that place. The lship was then thaenselres
drifting out to sea, without masts, anchors, cables, or bound by law
rudde& He collected a number of men and boats, and to iLbmit the
went on board the ship, and having towed her on to a mattor il dis.
to arbi.
shoal called the Shears, 'they began to discharge the pute
tration, is not
cargo into the boats. Rodnev$, supposing himself au- obligatory.
thorised by the wrecd law, as'it is called; of tbet state The owner
can.
"fgands
of Delaware, to take the lead in the business of salrage, $ot
forfeit

SUPREVE COURT U. S.
PZIsCH AND ,appointed Ware to superintend the delivery of the
OTHERS
V.

WARE

AND

cargo from the ship, and went on shore himself, to attend'to the-landing and storage of the goods saved.

iOTHRRS, &C.

S
On the 29th of October, the mate with three of the
them byan act crew returned to the ship in i shallop they had procured
done without
his consent or at Cape May, with intent, as they said, to save what
conniyance, br they could of the cargo. They found the ship in posthat .o.P-some sessibn of Ware and "others, who would not suffer the
person em- mate to take any thing out of the ship, except his
ployed or
trusted. by clothes and those of the crew. The mate then left the
him.
ship, There were 48 hands and six boats employed
One half al- 16 days and 12 fights in saving the goods; besides
lowed for sal- four, flats and, seven or eight hand hired
to
occasionally
rage in the
felawarebay. work in the flats.

Quere, whe-

ther goods sa-

ved are liable

for duties .

On the 7th of November Peisch arrived, and on the
9th offered to pay 4,000 dollars for salvage which the
salvors. refused,. the goods saved being supposed to be
worth about 14,000 dollars, and demanded one-half for
salvage. Not being able to agree, the parties supposing
themselves bound by the law of Delaware, which requires an arbitration in such cases, referred the rate of
salvage to three men, who awarded one-half to the
salvors. On the 18th of November, the collector of
the district of Delaware arrived at Lewis1 and.on the
19th the salvors offered themselves ready to secure the
duties upon their half of the goods saved, and requested that the .amount of duties might be ascertained at
Lewis. This the collector refused,' and ordered the
goods to be sent to Wilmington, a port of entry, to
have- the duties ascertained ; and Rodney delivered
them into his possession. The salvors then sued out- a
writ of' replevin from the state court of Delaware, and
took the possession of the goods from the collector, who
thereupon seized them as forfeited to the United States
for breach of the revenue laws.
The first count of the libel, filed by thoUnited States
claimed the wine, brandy and' cordials, as being forfeited, because they were unaccompanied with such marks
and certificates as are required by law, the duties not
having been paid or secured.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
The second count claims them as forfeited, because PISCzI-AND
they were removed without the consent of the collector, OTMI=
before the quantity and quality of the wines and spirits,

wJAnx AJ]

andIhe duties thereon, were ascertained according to
law ; the duti.es not having bieen paid or secured.

OTHB, &C.

The third count claims all the 'goods forfeited, because .they were found concealed, the duties not having
bedn paid or secured.
On this libel by the United States, the district court
decreed that the goods were not liable to forfeiture, but
were subject to the terms 6f the'decree of the court in
the suit respecting salvage, by Peisch and others against
Ware and others; which decree was affirmed in the
circuit court, and the United States appcaled to this
court.
Reed, United States attorney for the district of Delaware, contended,
1. That'the libellants were entitled to damages against
the salvors to the whole amount of the goods saved,
because, by the improper acts of the salvors, they have
been forfeited to the United States, and go wholly lost
to the libellants.
2., That the salvage allowed, if any is due, was too
'high.
1. The goods are forfeited to the United Siktes, first,
under the 4Jd section of the act of congress regulating
tle collection of duties on imports and tonnage, vol. 4.
p. 350. because found without marks and certificates ;
second, under the 51st section of the samb act, because
removed before the proof, quality and quantity thereof
were ascertained, and the duties paid or secured; anti
thirdly, under the 68th section of the same law, because
they were concealed, the duties not having been paid or
secured.
The removal of the wines and spirits without marks
and certificates, is clearly within the letter bf the law.
The power'to remit or mitigate the forfeiture, can only
be eicercised by the secretary of the treasury.

SUPREME (.OURT U. S.
It is not necessary that Peisch and others should have
been privy to the'removal. It is wholly unimportant
removes the goods. The United States look only
AND,
W4NE. ANDwho
The proceeding is in rem. If the
OTHERS, &C. to the thing ifself.
Sunlawful act be done even by a stranger, the goods are
forfeited. The revenue laws are to be construed strictly according to their letter. 4 Dull. 28. PriestnanV.
UnitedStates.
PRsCn AND
oTHERS

There is no difference between a careless and a fraudulent omission of duty. Peters' Rep. 448.
The offer to pay the duties was illusory--the collector
could not receive them.
Salvage goods are liable to duties, if intended, for
importation into this country. The case of S/fephersl v.
Goznold, Vaughan, 166. was of -wreck on shore, not of
floating wreck ; and the goods saved were not intended
for importation. 6 Bac. Ab. 280, 281. (Gwill. ed.) 1
Peters, 45. 47. 62. In the case of The Blaireau, in
this court, (ante, vol. 2. p. 240.) there was no question
as"to the duties ; the goods were not intended for importation.*.
If; then, the goods are forfeited io the United States
by the unlawful actsof the salvors, the court below
ought to have decreed redtitution in value, and given
damages to ihe libellants. 3 'Rob. 108. The Der Aohr.
Theii libel, although it avers an offer to pay salvage,
does not preclude them from averring that no palvage is
due, nor from claimini damaggs. The libel contains a
prqyerfr general relief, aad the court will pass such A
decree as their case-, upon proof, deserves,, without regard to the specific. relief prayed. 3 Dall. 86. 333. 3
Rob. .108. (Aiderican ed.)
-

'J6uNisoY,
point ! '

J.

Do the opposite counsel seriously contend this

Van Djh, for the appellees. We do not think the question im-

portant to this case, but we haye strong authorities in support 0f

our side of it.

TEBiUARY, 1808.

351

But even if the goods arq not liable to forfeiture for Pwtscu A..
the improper conduct of the salvors, yet they are not
entitled to salvage. By the 52d section of the act be- w.&u=KSD
fore recited, (vol. 4. p. 362.) it is made the duty of the orAzs0

collector,. in case of 'an incomplete entry i to cause the
goods to be stored. An incomplete entry of these goods
was made, and the revenue officer, Rodney, did no
more than his duty in securing the goods. The other
persons acted only as his servants or agents. He was
paid his daily allowance for his tiouble, by the collector.
The appellees never had such possession of the goods
as entitled them to retain them for salvage. The possession was in the United States, who held a prior lien
on them for the duties. Rodney first took possession
of them as an officer'of the revenue, and ht.ld them for
the United States, not for the salvors. They, neverhad
a rightful possession. The only possession they ever
had was under void writs of replevin from the state
court, which had no jurisdiction.
The possessioln on which the writs of replevin were
founded, was at most a possession under a lien for
salvage, which is a matter exclusively of admiralty jurisdiction. The writs of replevin 'being void, they
were trespasserd in taking possession under them. A
tortious acd cannot be the foundation of right. They
forfeited all -right to salvage by resisting the mate and
crew; and by the embezzlement of part of the goods
saved.
The award does not preclude the libellants fromi
aveiring that no salvage is due. The- arbitration was
entered into by mistake. , It was supposed by Peisch
that he was bound to enter into the reference, by the
7th section of the .act of assembly of Delaware, of February 2,1786. (Delaware Laws, vol. 2. p. 831.) But
that law was repealed by the constijution of the United
States, which trai;sfers all the admiralty jurisdiction to
theiourts of the United States exclusively ; and by the
actof congress, (thejudiciaryact of 1789,)- which provides for the exclusive exercise of that jurisdiction by
the district courts.
-

Vol. IV.

&C

352
PSTSCH AND
OTBES

w

SUPREME COUR1T U. S.

Since this act of c ongr~ss, the state officers have had
no right to meddle 'with property within the admiralty

'AN jurisdiction. The question of salvage is excluiivelv
&o. of admiralty jurisdiction, and belongs to the distriht
; and every provision of'the a~t of assembly of

OTHaZAS,
'court

Delaware upon that subject, is entirely repealed.
Pcisch's assent, therefore, to the arbitration, being
founded in a mistake of his rights, was a void act;
and the award can derive no validity from his assent.
If it derives no validity from his assent, it is a mere
nullity, for it is the judgment of an incompelcnt tribunal. The arbitrators could derive no authority from
the law of Delaware.
A court which 'has exclusivejurisdiction of the print
cipal subject, has also jurisdiction of the incidents. The
common law courts of the state had no jurisdiction in
any shape whatever. 1 Peters, 93. Arievoqr v. Ship5 Fair
4merican.
3 T. R. 343. Smart v. Wolfe.
But ever if the act of assembly were in force, the
award is not made in conformity with itm provisions.
lndftefirst place, no authority can be exercised under that law but by a sheriff, or -a justice of peace, or
ail officer of the customs, and then' only upon application by the master, or owner of the ship. But here, to
far from being requested-by an) person interested "in the
ship, the salvors drove away the mate and'the creV :
and secondly, the persons claiming salvage under that
law, must have been summoned as salvors,
The salyors have resorted to ain incompetent trihunal;
tfhey ought to have libelled in the district court, hvbjch"
has exclusive cognizance of the. case.
t. But if any salvage was due, the amoungt decreed
is exorbitant. The amount offered v as a .very liberal
compensation for their timd, risk and labour. There
was no danger, T6 vessel was all the "ime witfiln, the
b-y ; and.they had pilot boats constantly along side. The
cargo was in- its nature so buoyant, tlat the ship could
not sink .

FEBRUARY, 1808.

353

'In the case in 19th Irner, 275. only one-tenth was Priaci a
given for salvage on the coast. In The Blaireau, (ante,
* ..
vol. 2. p. 240.) only one-third was given ; and thit was W.uvn AND
a 6ase of greai risk and merit. 1 Peters, 10. 37. Alot- OTUrLO, &C.
toy,'b. 5. c. 10.
Broom and Yap Dyke, contra.
There are only two questions in this case.
1. Whether the goods are forfeited to the United
States ? And;
2. Whether the salvage allowed is too high ?
i. The inspector had no authority to unlade the ship.
No entry.had been -made, and no permit granted. He
could only unlade in the character of a salvor. When
the goods were landed, he had a right to direct where
they should be deposited until the duties were ascertained; and paid or secured, but his right extended no
further. The lien of the salvors was nof inconsistent
with that of' the United States. As to every thing, beyond the security of the revenue, the officer was a trustee for the salvors and the owners. He held as much
for them aihe did for the United States, until he undertook to hold adversely.

The state courts had a right to issue the writs of re,
plevin. Replevin, in Ddlaware, is a substitute for trover. It is the writ by which they try the question of
property; and trover will certainly lie against a revenue"
officer for an illegal seizure. Esp. N. P. 583. a Rob.
178.

4 Rob. 160. 188.

Burr. 2657.

It is not denied that salvage is a question bf admiralty jurisdiction, and that the court of admiraliy has
also cognizance.of incidents; 'but not exclusive cognizance. It was ilever"so contended in Englaad. Th
court of admirally had a hard struggleto get even a coneuinr et cogifiizancq of incidental 'queotins.
Salvage g6 lods are not "iableto duties, nor, if they are,
can the goods be forfeited by.any act of the asalvors.

354
PEczSC

AN}

"TV. s

WATtg*E'D

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Such Was never the intent of the. act of congresg.

statutes must have a reasonable construction.
Statute; 519, 1 BI. cQm. 91.

All

lin. tit.

OTHERS, &C.

-

By the revenue laws, gouas are liable to forfeiture by
landing at any other than a port of delivery, or without
permit, or in the night, yet it will not be contended that
these provisions apply to goods wrecked and driven on
shore. But they are certainly within the letter of the
act.

In Courtney v. Bower, cited in 1 Lord Ram. 388.
and 501. it is not stated that the goods were intended to
be imported, and such is not the ground of decision in

Shepherd v. Gosnold, laugh. 159. But the true ground
of decieion is, that the goods were not imported as nierchandize, but were drivenin by stress of weather; that
it was not a voluntary importation. 6 Gwillim's Bac. A.
280. Although the words of the British navigation
act, - 12 Car. 1. e6 18. are "imported as merchandize,
yet those statutes which use only the word imported,"
have received the same construction. Rev' Lb~w Of
Shippihg, 203. 2 Wilson, 257.
The act of congress means- a voluntary importatom
It is in many respects similar to the British statute.
There is no importation until bulk is broken. Until
then, there is no forfeiture of the goods,. alhough-the
vessel depart with them. There is only a penalty of

400 dollars on the master. Collection Law, . 29. 31, 32,
'33. 36. 45. Halet & Bowne v. Yen~s, (ante, vol. 3.
p. 21,9.) The stat te of 5 Geo. 1. makes stranded goods
liable to duty' hence it may be inferred that they would
not have been so liable but for the statute. Bac: Alb. tit.
Smugghlng, 274.. Hard.360. HrgravesLaw Trdcts,
215. 225.." Reeves, 24. 66. 85. 207, 208. 212. &c.

1 Plowden, 1. Reneger. v. Pa.ossa. Cro. Eliz. 538.
Coll. 7urid. 72. 75. 79. Reeve, 200. Loft, 200, 1
-"h'W. c. 17.- 8. 8 , ,Ray.
77. The king has no
remedy for his subsidy, u6nless the goods,be landed.
There must be fraud or.negligence. No act of the
salvors forfeited the goods. If they are trespassers) its

FEBRUARY, 1808.
is contended, no act of theirs could forfeit them. It Peisct &.vD
must be an act done by the owners, or with their privity,
oR.as
or by some person acting under their authority.
. A'tD
OT11rUS,

&c

In the case of The B/aireau, fudge Winchester de- "-","-"
cided that salvage goods were not liable to duties ; and
the decision on that point was not questioned on the appeal.'
0 The counsel for the appellees were permitted in this court to
read the following letter from yudge Winchester to :yudge Bcior4.
stating the grounds of that decision.
3Shaare, Baltinore County, ,Mfard 9, 18a.

Dear Sir,
It seems that the full statement of the arguments and
opitlion made by me in the case of duties on wreck and salvage
goods, has been lost or mislaid. I can therefore only furnish you
with the state of the case, the points and authorities.
The ship La Blaireau, on a voyage from the West-ndies to France,
and wholly owned by foreign subjects, was run down at night by a
Spanish ship of war, and abandoned by the crew, who were taken
off by the Spanish vessel. The next morning The Blaireau was
discovered by the* British ship Firm, taken up as a wreck, and
salvage ; and conducted to the port of Baltimore.
The cargo was very valuable, containing sugars, coffee, liquors,
lace, and diamonds. The two latter articles were in very small
boxes, and the facility of their concealment had tempted the British captain to conceal some of the boxes ; but the fact was discovered, in consequence of a quarrel between him and another person, relative to a division of the booty.
An action was instituted against-the captain for the penalty imposed by the revenue law, on concealing these articles nf lace and
jewelry, upon the ground that they were chargeable with duties.
Mr. Martin argued fbr the defendant, That the case was not
within any statute ; that it was not an importation, within the re"enue-laws, which go only to ordinary cases of trade, with the
exception of the single case of distress, provided for by the 60th
section of the act. He commented on the 23d, 29th, 30th, 60th,
68th, and 69th sections, to show that the whole of the provisions
of the law applied only to voluntary importations ; that they did not
apply to salvage goods, which could not be accompaniod by the
manifests, bills of l4ding,'&c. required in ordinary cases ; nor
could the oaths imposed by law be taken in the case of salvage.
He then irgued that no misconduct whatever of thie salvors can
reate a forfeiture 9f goods of which they had tahen pauet:ion as

356
'xscft

A-3

:1.

W.AnV AND
*TII.RS,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Misconduct Js charged against the salvors, because
they prevented the mate and three of the' crew front
taking away part of the cargo.

&C.

salvor,, and referred to 6 Bac. A. 280. (Gvwill. ed,) on the goneral question, relying on the cases there cited, ard 1 Lord Raoy-n,
388. 501. Reee's Law of Shippig, 201. Bunbury, 236. Stat. 5
reo.I c. 11. s. 13. 26 Gee, Ii c. 19. e 5.
The district attorney argue;] that the importation meant a bringing in. That the privity of ofters wa§ not necessary. Seamen
forfelt the ship by running the goods, and by the 111th section of
the revenue law, which provides for an entry where particulars are
unknown, salvage goods might be entered.
-The court decided that salvage goods word not dutiable; and
referred to the following authorities, in afdlition "to those mention.
edat the bar. The case of 1yson v. Lord Villars, (a very strong
oase,) Collect. Yuridca, 79, 80. Strange, 943. Hardre:,362. ParIcr, 212. Cro..Eliz. 534. The court relied on the 61st and 62d
section of the revenue law, to show that the duties were not due on
importation,, and to bring the case within Sir J. Tiarrot's opinion,
Collect. 7uridica, 88. Two decisions of. Judge Paca were also re.
terred to by the. court, one of which decided that prize goods
were not operated upon by the ordinary revenue laws ; and that
brandy (brought) in as prize by a French privateer, (before the
prohibition to sell their prize goods in our,ports,) though in vessels
of less capacity than allowed in the ordinary course of tradei were
not forfeitable. The other, under the btatute of the United States
which prohibited the exportation of arms, &c. Judge Paca held,
that the exportation of arms, &e. constituting the equipment of the
vessel, was not an exportation within the statute.
The court (in ihe case of The Blatieau) intimated a strong opinion tlhat importationimplied a bringing in voltnrarily ; and referred
to the decisions under the non-intercurse law with France, where
it was holden that commencing after' an involuntary going into
French dominions, was not a commencing prohibited by law, 'and
also relied strongly on O'Callion'scase, 1 ffawkins, c. 17. j, 83.
upon the statute 27 Eliz. c. 2.
-The above contains the substance of the arguments and opinions,,
and all the authorities referred to in the case of The Blaikectu. It'
will afford rte pleasure if you shall he able to derive any assistanice'
from them.
I am very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
1. WINCIIESThIL
-non, Judge Be'ord.

FEBRUARY,

1808.

But the salvors had a right so to do. They were in PE13cu AND
*Tltzs
V.
'possession, and had saved aI considerable part of the
cargo, and were in the act of saving the residue; they
.
A.W
had a lien upon the whole for salvage. There is no oT0mm, &c.
evidence of any embezzlement by the salvors,; that
charge is not supported. Nor is there the least evidence
that any part of the goods were concealed to. evade
navment of the dut;es.
2. The award is conclusive as to the rate of salvage.
It is immaterial whetherthe law of Delhware be in
force or not. But Delaware is a sovereign independent
state, and has all the rights of sovereignty not given up
to the United States by the constitution. The United
States admiralty court is bound by the laws of Delawam,
so far as they are consistent with those of the United
States. The jurisdiction is given to the courts of the
United States by the constitution and laws of the United States, but the state laws are rules ofdecision in those
courts, in cases where they apply.
It is said the award was not made agreeably to the
act, and that the parties were not bound to submit to the
arbitration.
That act is like that which gives power to the commissioners of the cinque ports to decide the question of
salvage ; and if the parties submit to the jurisdiction,
it is fit they should abide by the award; it1thobgh
the arbitrators had no jurisdiction otherwise than by
consent. - Rob; 261. The American Hero.
The libellants objected to the amount, not to the jurisdiction, - Wheiher it be an award uhder the act of
Delaware, or by consent of parties, it is equally binding; and the court cannot ldok into the reasonableness

of it.
As to the amount of salvage, the counsel, cited i
Rob. 263
3 Rob; 286. and '5 Rob.'289. The c/on ge
Bastiaan,where two-thirds were -givenfor savage, i a
case of derelict.

35Z
Pzscn .

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Rodney, Attorney-General, in reply.

OTHERS

There was not much risk to the owners of the caito;
&c. it.was not in great danger ; and there was no danger in
Ssaving the goods.
The salvors, at most, can only claim
a con)pensation for their time and labour. But they
are not entitled to any thing. They resisted the officer
of the ship, when by the very law of Delaware, under
which they pretend to have acted, they ought to have
obeyed his orders.

WARS AND
OTHERS,

The goods were subject to duty, and forfeiture.
There is, no reason why goods, having paid salvage,
should not be liable to duties. The decision of Yudge
Winchester in the case of The Blaireau, is not admitted
to be law. Even wearing apparel would be liable, but
for the exception in the act. The exception proves the
general rule.
The British statute differs in its language from ours,
rand therefore the English authorities do not apply.
The msfortune only exempts the owners from the
penaltiesof the act, but does not exempt the goods from
forfeiture.
Afarch 9.
MASRSHALL, Ch.
court, as follows:

J.

delivered the opinion of the

. In these cases two questions are to- be decided hy the'
Court.
1st, Is the cargo of the Favourite, or any part of it,
forfeited to the United States?
2d. Are Ware and others entitled to any, and if to
any, to what salvage?
The first count in the first libel fled on the part of the
United States claims the brandies, wines and cordials
therein mentioned, in consequence of their being found
in the possession of certain-persons therein named, un-

FEBRUARY,

1808.

359

accompanied with such marks and certificates as are required by law, the duties thereon not having been paid,
or secured to be paid.

I'r1ScI AI-D

ol aS

waUg

MW

OrkIrns, &C

The second-count claims them as forfeited because
they were removed, without the consent of the collector,
before the quantity and quality of the said wines and
spirits, and the duties therton, were ascertained according to law; the duties thereon not having been paid ur
secured.
The third count claims them because they were found
concealed, the duties not having been paid or secured according to law.
The second libel claims certain other goods, which
were parcel of the. cargo of the Fayourite, as forfeit.ed,
by being found unlawfully concealed, the duties thereon
not having ben paid or secured.
The facts of the case are these : The ship Favourite,
belonging to Mr. Peisch, of Philadelphia, was discovered about the last Qf October adrift in the bay of Delaware, with her masts gone by the board, and without
anchors, cables or rudder, and in danger of being carried
out to sea. A company was formed to save the vessel
and cargo; and with considerable labour, in the course
of several days, the cargo was unladen and landed at
Lewis, a small town on the bay, not a port of delivery,
where it was, with the approbation of the collector, left
under the care and in the custody of a revenue officer
residing at that place, who was one of the party that had
originally taken possession of the vessel, and under whose
direction the whole business had been in a great measure
conducted. On the 3d of November, while the salvors
were unlading the vessel and landing the cargo, an imperfect entry was made by the owners or consignees, after which an award was made between the owners and
salvors, by which the salvors were allowed one half the
cargo. The owners were dissatisfied with this award,
and refused to acquiesce under it. The collector ordered the goods, whith had been in the custody of a revenue
officer,. to be carried to Witmington for the purpose of
Vol. IV.

Zz

SUPREME COURT U. S.
I'ziscH AND ascertaining the amount of duties.

The salvors object-

ed to this, and requested that the duties might be ascerWARE AND tained at Lewis, offering at the same time to pay the
oTHERs, &c. duties on the moiety of the cargo claimed by them unOTHERS

'der

the award.

The collector persisting in his determi-

nation to remove the goods to Wilmington, the salvors
sued out a writ of replevin from ihe state court, and by
force of that writ took the goods out of the possession of
the revenue officer. Thi' act is .the foundation of the
forfeiture alleged in the libels.
The forfeiture said to be occasioned by the goods being found without the marks and certificates required by
law, depends upon the 43d section of the act for collecting duties, and on other sections of the same act, which
are explanatory of the 43d section. The particular
clause giving the forfeiture is in these words : " And if
any casks, chests, vessels or cases, containing distilled
spirits, wines, or teas, which by t/teforegoingprovision.
ought to be marked aid zccompanied with certificates,
shall be found in possession of any person, unaccompanied with such. marks and certificates, it shall be presumptive evidence that the same are liable to forfeiiure."
The law thtn authorises a seizure, and subjects such distilled spirits, &c. to forfeiture,.unless it be proved at the
trial that they were imported according to law, and that
the duties were paid or secured.
The objects of this clause .are those vessels only which
",by the foregoing- provsions'. ought to be marked
and accompanied with certificates. To determine its
extent, the "foregoing provisions" must be looked
into.

,.

This subject is first taken up in the 37th section of the
act. That section. directs particular and additional en,
tries to be made of distilled spiritt, wines and teas, which
provisions are adapted to regular importation, not to those
articles when sa, ed-from a wreck.
The entry-is to be made by the importer or consignee,
and specifications are required which can only be given
by the owner or consignee, whfn in possession of the pn
pers relative to the vessel and cargo. If a vessel be

FEBRUARY, 1808.

361

wrecked on the coast, the cargo must be lost, or brought Pnscl AU
on shore without the knowledge of the owner or conoTnI"
V.

signee, so as to put it in his power to make the entry, wAnE 'In
and the salvors are not only, not the persons designated ori-ns, &c.
by the law to make; but they will often not possess the
information which would enable them to make it..
The act proceeds to require that this entry shall be
transmitteol to .the -surveyor of the port wh'ere the delivery of the cargo is to commence, to whom also every
permit for unlading or landing any part of the cargo must
be previously produced, who shall record the same, and
indorse thereon the word " inspected," the time when,
and his own name. Goods landed previous to these
formalities are to be forfeited.
These regulations obviously respect a regular importation, where all these pre-requisites to landing may be
performed ; not cases where a landing must take place
without them. To suppose them applicable to salvage
goods, would be to suppose that the legislature designed
to prohiit salvage entirely, or to forfeit the cargoes of
all'vessels which might be wrecked on the coast.
The 38th section requires that all distilled spirits,
wines and teas, shall be landed under the inspection of
the surveyor; or other officer acting as inspector of the.
revenue 'for the -port, and therefore can relate only to
cases of regular importation at the port' of delivery,
where the revenue officer may superintend the landing.
He is directed to attend at all reasonable times, not at
allplaes.
The 39th section prescribes the duty of the officer of
inspection of the port where the spirits, &c. may be
lanied. He i's to ascertain the duties and mark the
casks.
The 40th section directs the surveyor, or chief officer
of inspection of the port or district in which the said
spirits, wines or teas shall be landed, to give the proprietor; importer or consignee a general certificate ; and the
41st section directs him to give a particular certificate

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PEIscH --

y

OTHERS
V.

,VARE

AND

oThErs, &c.
'cede

for each veisel, which certificate passes with'the vbssel

to the purchaser.

These sections are connected with those which prethem, and relate to regular importations, 'vherethe
spirits, &c. are landed under a permit ata port of delivery, and there is a proprietor, importer or consignee, or
an agent to whom.the certificates may be gronted ; not
to spirits, &c. which may, from the nature of things,
lawfully get into the possession of individuals without the
knowledge of a revenue officer.
The 42d section only directs that blank certificateli
shall be provided,
These are the sections which precede that which is
supposed to give the forfeiture claimed tinder this count
of thelibel.
The first part of the 43d section directs the proprietor,
importer or consignee, who may receive the said certificates, to deliver them with the vessels to the puichaser; and then comes the clause which subjtcts to forfeiture all vessels containing spirits, &c. which may be
found unmarked and not accompanied by 'ceitificates,
which by the foregoing provisions ought to be'inarked
and accompanied by certificates.
In the foregoing provisions the legislature, in the
opinion of this court, did bot intend to comprehend
wrecked goods, or goods found under circumnstances liko
those in the Favourite,where the vessel was deserted by
her, crew, and where it might be necessary, for the preservation of the good6, to, take them to the nearest accessible part of the coast. Either these spirits and wines
would have been liable to fortiturb if brought to land
under the most pressing circumstances, where inevitable
.oss must attend any delay, if a revenue officer should
not.be p'rescnrto take possession of them, or the single
circumstande of their being found inniirked and unaccompanied with certificates, is not in itself sufficient to
forfeit them. Tie opinion of the court that-it was not
the intention of the legislatuie'to stibject goods, under
such circumstances, to forfei.ture, is not formed exclu-

FEBRUARY, 1808.
sively on the extreme severity of such a regulation.

363
It

1':scu

,m)

is formed also on what is deemed a. fair construction of oTHnS
the language of the several sections of the law, which WARYL AND
seems not adaptedto cases like the present.

The second count in the libel claims the goods as forfeited, because they were, without the consent of the proper officer, remgved from the place where they were deposited, before the amount of duties was ascertained,
the duties at that time not beiig-paid or secured.
Neither this count, nor the first, supposes any forfeiture
to have been incurred b the landingof the goods, or the
unlauing of the vessel. The spirits and wines are presumed to have been le.gally brought on shore, and it is
the removal only iuhich'gives title to the United States.
The court therefore is to inquire, whether these goods
.were under such circumstances that a removal, such as
has taken place in this case, will produce a forfeiture.
This depends on the 51st section of the law, in expounding which, it becomes proper to notice the 50th also.
This section.prohibits the unlading of any vessel, or the
landing of any goods, without a permit granted by the
proper officers, and subjects the master or other person
having the command -f such vessel, and all those who
shall be concerned in unlading, removing, or storing
such goodsto heavy penalties, and the goods themselyus
to forfeiture.
It was well observed that the application of this section to cases where the goods must perish, if not immediately brought on shore, and to cases in which a permit
cannot regularly be granted, would be not only to prohibit,-but-to punish every attempt to save a cargo about
to heloston the coast. This construction of the law could
only be made where the words would admit of no other.
But it is unquestionably a correct legal principle, that a
forfeiture can only be applied to those cases in which
the means that are prescribed for the prevention of a forfeiture may be employed. The means prescribed- to
save the forfeiture given in the 50th section cannot be
'employed where a vessel is deserted by her crew, or
cannot be brought into port. The permit cannot be obtained, nor can those steps which must precede the at-

otmE,

&c.

364
PCxscg

ANT)

OTHERS

V.

"WARE AND
OTHERS,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ta'ioment of a permit be taken. Upon just legal construetion, then, the landing of these goods without A permit
did not subject them to the forfeiture of the 50th section.

The 50th section is calfor cases in which the general requisites of the
law can be complied with, not for salvage goods, in cases
where those general requisites cannot be complied
with.

. This act is not-within the law.
Sculated

The 51st section relates to the removal of goods from
the wharf or place on which they may have been landed
in conformity with the directions of the 50th section. It
presupposes a permit, and that they Were landed under
the inspection of a revenue officer, in the manner prescribed by the 38th section.
It presupposes a case in which the guaging and marking may be done, and the other means prescribed for the
ascertainment of the duties and security of the revenue
may be takcn, at the place of landing; not a case in which.
a hnding must be made without a permit, often in the
absence of a revenue officer, and whdre the goods could
not be permitted, without extreme peril, to remain at
the place of landing until these measures should be
taken.

The court is also of opinion, that the removal for which
the act punishes the owner with a forfeiture of the goods
must be made with his consent or connivance, or with
that of some person, employed or trusted by hin. If,
by privhte theft, or open r'obbery, without any fault on
his part, his- property should be invaded, while in the
custody of the officer of the revenue, the law cannot be
understood to punish him with the forfeiture of that propert)'. In the 52d section, therefore, to which the revenue oficers seem to have intended to conform, so far as
the case would admit, which directs them in the case of
an incomplete entryto store the goods at the risk and expanse of the owner or consigneq, no forfeiture is anneged
to their removal, -unless'the penalties of the 51st section,
or of the 43d section, be applied to-the 52d.
The court is of opinion that those penalties cannot be'
so applied in this case, no- only because, from the whole

FEBRUARY, E809.

365

tenor of the law, its provisions appear not to be adapted Prtsc" ,AN
to goods saved.from a vessel under the circumstances
in which the Favouritewas found, but because, also, the WA. AND
law is not understood to forfeit the property of owners OTUERS, &'C
or consignees, on account of the misconduct of mere
strangers, over whom such owners or consigneos could
have no controul.
It has been urged, on the part of the- United States,
that although the property of the owner should not be
forfeited, yet that moiety which is claimed by the
salvors has justly incurred the penalties of the law.
But if the award rendered in th;s case be not binding,
the salvors could have only a general claim for salvaje,
such as a court might allow; and if it be binding, still
they acquired no title to any specific property. Their
claim was in the nature of a general lien, and any irregular proceeding on their part would rather furnish motives for diminishing their salvage, if that be not absolutely fixed by the award, than ground of forfeiture.
The irregularit5 , too, if any, which has been committed by them, being merely an attempt to assert, in a
course of law, a title they supposed themselves to possess, and with no view to "defraud the revenue, this
court would not be inclined to put a strained construction- on the act of congress, in order to create a forfeiture.
The third count in the first libel, and the second libel,
claim a forfeiture on the allegation that the goods were
concealed. The fact does not support this allegation.
There was no concealment in the case.
Taking all the circumstances into cofnsideration, it is
the unanimous opinion of the court, that no forfeiture.
has been incurred, and that the libels filed on the part of
the United States were properly dismissed.
The next question to be considered is, to what amount
of salvage are the salvors entitled? That their claim
is good for something, is the opinion of all the judges ;
but on the amount to be allowed, the same unanimity
does not prevail.

SUPREME COURT U, ,.
PEXSCH

AND

oTHERs

WARE AND

OTHRs, &c.

_For
the quantum of salvage to be allowed, no positive
rules are fixed. It depends onthe merit of the salvors$

in estimating which, a variety of considerations have

their influence.

In the case before the court, the opinion of the majority is, that the sentence of the circuit court ought to
be affirmed. This opinion, however, is made u on
different grounds. Two 'of the judges are of opinion
that the award was fairly entered into, and altho~igh
both parties might be mistaken with respect to the obligation created by the law of Delaware, yet there is no
reason to suppose any imposition on either part; nor
is there any other ground on which the award can be
impeached or set aside. Two other judges, who do
not think the award obligatory, view it a's the opinion
of fair and intelligent men, on the spot,'of thexcal merit of the salvors, and connecting it with the testimony
in the cause, are in favour of the salvage which has been
awarded, and which has been allowed by the sentences
of the district and circuit courts. Three judges are of
opinion that the award is of no validity, and ought to
have no influence. They think the conduct of the
salvors, in taking the goods out of the possession of
the revenue officer, though by legal process, is .improper,
and that the salvage allowed is too great.
They acquiesce, however, cheerfully, in the opinion
of the majority of the court, and express their dissent
from that opinion, solely for the purpose of preventing
this sentence from having more than its due influefice on
future cases of salvage.
The sentence of the circuit cdurt is affirmed, witthout
costs.

