FEBRUjARY, 180s,

'321

Unquestionably, circumstances may occur, and perhips did occur in'thiscase, which would be equivlent
to the declaration' of 'his election on the part of the
debtor, and therefore the court was correct in instructing thejuif, that if they should be satisfied that the payments were understdod to" be made on account of the
gooils sold' at vendue, they ought to apply them to the
-discharge of that hccount ; but in declaring thatthe election, which they su'p osed to devolve on the plaintiff if
the application of the money was not undeistood at the
time by the parties, vas lost if not inimediately exercised, that court errid.

MAvo,,

&d.

oy ALZXD.
PATTZZ1ANID
OTHEz1l.

Their judgment, therefdre, must be reversed, aqd the
cause remanded for 'hew trial

DAWSON'S .LESSEE v. GODFREY.

DAvson's
v.

-GODFREY.

the circuit courf of the district of ColuknA peron
bia,ERROR
sittinj attoWashington.
born in England berora

-Russel Lee, a citizen of the United States, in the year

the year
1775 aid %

1793 died seised in fee bf a tract of land, called Argyle, always resid.
Co-vall and Lorn, situated in that part of the district of ed there, and
was in
Columbia which was ceded to the United States by the never
teUnited
state of Mayland. MIrs. Dawson, the lessor of' the states, in an
plaintiff, would be entitled to the landty descent, unless atl&, and
prevented by the application of the principle of alienage. could not in
She was born in England before the year ,7V5, always 793t
remained.a British 'subject, and was never in hie Untcl ands in
States."aryand
by
descent from
acitizen of!
The court below instructed ibe jury t'hat she was ah the
United
alien, and could not take the laud by descent from Rus- states.
sel Lee in the year 1793.
-

Ilhe question having been full' argucd, but not deti-

ded, in the cases of. Lambert' Lessee v. Paine,(ante, v9..

SUPREME COURT U, S.
DAwsON's
LESSEE
GODFREY.

3. p. 97.) and XM'Ilvaine v. Coxe's Lessee, (ante, vol. 2.p.
280.) the counsel (viz. -orselland 7ones for the plaintiff in error, and P. B. Key for the defendant) agreed to
Ssubmit

it to the court without further argument.

JoHNsoN, J.4 delivered the opinion of the court, as
follows;
This case rests upon the single question, Whether a
subject of Great Britain, born before the-declara.tionof indePndence, can now inherit lands in this country? The
general doctrine is adroiitted, that in the state of Maryland, in. which the land lies, an alien cannot take by descent; but it is contended, upon the doctrine laid cown
in Calvin's case,' that the rights of the antenati of. Grea.,
Britain formed an exception from the general rule. The
point decided in the case of Calvin was, that a Scotsinan, born after the union, could inherit lands in England.
It is evident that this case is not direcily in point, for
the 6nly objection here to the right of recovery did not
exist in Calvin's case, as, whether in England or in Scotland, he was equally bound in allegiance to thb king of
Great Biitain. It would bt a contradiction in terms to
contend that'Dawson or his wife ever owed allegiance to
a government which did not exist at theiri birth. It. is
upon a supposed analogy, therefore, and the reasoning of
the judges in Calvin's case, that the argument for the
plaintiffs is founded. In the two cases of Goxe and 11Ivaine and Lambert andPayne, in this court, this doctrinfe
was very amply discussed, and this case is submitted
upon those argumenits. The counsel there contended,
that the relation of the posltfati of Scotland (after the
union) to,the subjects of Great Britain, was identically
the same with the antenati of Great Britain (before our
revolution) to the'citizens of this country, and that the
community of allegiance at the time of birth, and not the
existing state of it when the descent is cast, is the principle upon which the right to inherit depends.
The latter proposition presents the weak pointof their
argument, foi the community of allegiance at the time of

P The judges present

'..e

Chase, Y'ohnson, Livingston and Todd,

FEBRUARY 1808.
birth and'at the -time of descent both existed in Calvin's DA-so .s
LISSEa
case. And if the court in "their argument expressed.
ci.
opinions which appear to gcrthe length contended for by Gorr.
the counsel, they must ble considered as mere obiter

opinions, since the decision of the cause did hot depend
upon them. We have no doubt that the correct doctrine of the English law is, that the right to inherit depends upon the existing state of allegiance at the time of
the'descent.cast. And that the idea that it d6pends upon
community of allegiance at the time of birth, is a. consequence that follows from the doctrines that a man can
never put off his allegiance, or be deprived of the benefits
of it but for a crime. Community of allegiance once
existing must, upon these principles, exist ever after.
Hence it is that the antenatiof America may continue to
inherit in Great Britain, because we once owed allegiance
to that crown. But the same reason does not extend to
the antenati of Gret Britain, because they never owed
allegiance to our govern ment. [rhis idea will be best
elucidated in the following manner: If an action be
commenced in England by an antenatus of America'for
the recovery of land, the plea of alien born could not be
maintained, because inconsistent w,ifh the fact; nor
would a plea of the severance of these states avail thedefendant, because th e art of his government, independent
of any crime of his own, does not deprive' the plaintiff of
"his civil rights, although it may release him from the
obligation of allegiance. But if a suit bf the same kind
be. instituted here by an antenatusof Great -Britain; ftplea of alien born cQuld bd maintained, for the plaintiff
never owed allegiance to our governrient. - T6 avoid it
he would be put to a special replication, Sy wbich he must
of necessity acknowledge the truth of the pleh, and set
forth circumstances which.would amount toa recognition
of his riever having been a party in our social compact.
Much'of the difficultv in satisfying the mind on this subject vanishes upon ajust'view of the 'nature of the right
of inheritance. Gentlemen have argted upon it as if it
were a natural and perfect right; whereas it has its origin
in, and is modified to infinity by the laws of society, in
exercise of the right of territorial jufisdictidn.' To be
entitled to inherit in the state of Maryland, a right should
be made out.undeir the laxr, of that state. As the common law, Which- is, the law'of Mfaryland on this subject;

SUPREME COURT U, S.
DAWSON'S
LESSEE

V.
GODFREY.

deprives an alien generally of the right of inheritint, it
is incumbent upon the plaintiff to establish some exception in favourof his case. But I know of no exception,
at common law, which gives the right to inherit distinctly from the obligation of allegiance, existing either in
fact or in supposition of law.
Judgment affirmed.

M0UNTZ,
V.
IIODGson.

MODUNTZ AND OTHERS v. HODGSON
AND THOMPSON.

Quere,
whe.
THIS was a writ of error 'to a supposed judgment of'
ter
tihe maytor of George. the circuit court of the district of Columbia,- for the
town, in the

county of Washington, between.Hodgson and Thomp-

distrietof Co. son, plaintiffs, and. Jacob Mountz, .7ohn Mountz and
lumbia,

justice

is a

of

Henry Knowles, defendants.

peace of.the

county of

Hodgson- and Thompson had recovered judgment in
term, 1805, against Jficob
By
the act of assembly
yasml
will lie to the of Maryland, 'i791.. c.- 67. entitled " an act for regurefusal of the " lating the mode of staying execution, and for repealcourt below, c"g the acts of assembly therein mentioned,"' it isenWashington? the court,below* at.December
wWhether
a Mountz~ and Geor..
writ
of error
o~ Reintzel.

to quash an. 'ng
execution up. acted, that. no execution shall issue upon any judgment,

on

motion ?

provided theperson or persons against whom such judgment is obtained, shall come before two justices of the
peac of the county, where such person or persons shall
reside, within two months'after, the rendition of such
judgment, and together with two other persons, such as
the said justices shall approve of, and confess judgment
for his debtand costs of suit adjudged; with stay of execution for six fionths thereaftei - which- confession
shall be made in manner and form following, that is to
say .1
youH. M. A. B. and C, D. do confess judgment
to E. F." &c. which.confession shall be signed by the'

