OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

tion first above stated must be answered in the affirmative.
The cases of Craft v. Schafer, 154 Fed. Rep. 1002;
Tucker v. Grier, 160 Fed. Rep. 611, and Hastings v. Herold, 184 Fed. Rep. 759, although not involving ยง 3177,
disclose some contrariety of opinion in the lower Federal
courts upon the matter principally discussed herein, and
we deem it appropriate to observe that our conclusion
has been reached only after a careful consideration of
those cases.
Reversed.

SOLIAH v. HESKIN ET AL., DRAIN COMMISSIONERS OF TRAILL COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF TRAILL COUNTY, STATE
OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 76. Argued December 5, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State of the power to
determine what duties may be performed by local officers, nor
whether they shall be appointed, or elected by thie people.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not invalidate an act authorizing an
appointed board to determine whether a proposed drain will be of
public benefit, and to create a drainage district consisting of land
which it decides will be benefited by such drain, and to make special
assessments accordingly, if, as in this case, notice is given and an
opportunity to be heard afforded the landowner before the assessment becomes a lien against his property.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State of the power
to compel a township, as one of its political subdivisions, to levy and
co]lect. taxes for the purpose of paying the amount assessed against
such township for the public benefits accruing from the construction
of the drain.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

SOLIAH v. HESKIN.

222 U.S.

523,

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edward Agerid, with whom Mr. P. G.Swenson was
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
The court declined to hear further argument, but
Mr. J. S. Watson filed a brief f9 r defendants in error.,
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR.
Under the North Dakota statute (ch. 23, Political Code;
Rev. Codes 1905) the County Commissioners are authorized to appoint a Drainage Board in each county. On the
petition of six persons, owning land to be affected, or of a
sufficient number to show a public demand where the
drain is intended to benefit a township, the board makes
a preliminary examination. If it finds that the drain is
for the public good and will cost less than the benefits,
."notice containing a copy of the petitioi is published and
an opportunity to be heard upon the matters pertaining
thereto afforded the owners of all lands to be affected."
"If it shall appear that there was sufficient cause for the
making of such petition, and that the proposed drain will
not cost more than the amount of the benefit," the board
shall establish the drain. Their assessment of benefits is
subject tc review, but, when confirmed, is final, and is
then extended on the tax list and collected as other taxesthe amount assessed to any township is required to 'be
included in its first general tax levy thereafter.
The plaintiffs in error, owning land in Mayville and
Morgan Townships, North Dakota, .brought proceedings
to enjcin a Drainage Board appointed by County Commissioners from making and collecting special assessments
agains plaintiffs in error and the townships for their proportion of the cost of a drain ordered to be constructed.
The Supreme Court of the State held that, while taxes
could only be levied by elected officers, speoial assessments

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

for benefits conferred by such drains might be imposed
by appointed officers, and that the statute afforded due
process of law. So far as the Federal questions are concerned, the judgment must be affirmed. For1. The Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State
of the power to determine what duties may be performed
by local officers, nor whether they shall be appointed, or
elected by the people. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 71;
83; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R., 211 U. S. 210;
County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 706; Fallbrook
District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 167.
2. Neither does that Amendment invalidate an act
authorizing an appointed board to determine whether a
proposed drain willbe of public benefit, and to create a
drainage district consisting of land which it decides will
be benefited by such drain, and to make special assessments accordingly, if, as here, notice is given and an opportunity to be heard afforded the land owner before the
assessment becomes a lien against his property. Ibid.
3. Nor does that Amendment deprive a State of the
power to compel a township, as one of its political subdivisions, to levy and collect taxes for the purpose of paying the amount assessed against such township for the
public benefits accruing from the construction of the drain.
Ibid; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 589-593; County of
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 703-704.
Affirmed.

