300 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1911;
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

the land subject only to be defeated by an event that has
not happened, and we see as little ground for doubting
that he disposed of it as there is for denying that he had it.
The residuary clause is in the usual form, "All the rest
and residue of my estate, real, personal and mixed, which
I now possess or which may hereafter be acquired by me";
amply sufficient to carry the equitable estate. No doubt
Mayer thqught that the Chevy Chase property would go
another way, but it manifestly was not certain, and moreover one of the objects of a residuary clause is to gather
up unremembered as well as uncertain rights.
Decree affirmed.

ACME HARVESTER COMPANY v. BEEKMAN
LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 9.

Argued April 25, 1911.-Decided December 18, 1911.

The denial of a right claimed under the judgment of a Federal court
lays the foundation for a review in this court, and where the state
court proceeds to judgment on the ground that bankruptcy proceedings against the defendant had been concluded by denial of adjudication and the injunction against suits in the state court thereby dissolved this court has jurisdiction.
A finding by the state court that bankruptcy proceedings had been

concluded by denial of adjudication does not conclude this court
on writ of error to review the judgment of the state court.
Where the state court bases its jurisdiction entirely on the construction
given a Federal statute by it adversely to contention of plaintiff in
error, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment. Rector v.
Bank, 200 U. S. 405.
The filing of a petition in banliruptcy is a caveat to all the world, and,
in effect, an attachment and injunction. Mueller v. Nugent, 184
U. S. 1, 14.
It is the duty of the bankruptcy court to promptly determine the ques-

ACME HARVESTER CO. v. BEEKMAN LUM. CO. 301
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of adjudication and to proceed with the selection of a trustee
and administration of the estate; and it cannot, even if for the benefit
of creditors, deny an adjudication and hold. jurisdiction over the
estate for the purpose of allowing some of the creditors to effect. a
reorganization and distribution of the property.
With the denial of adjudication the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court ends and the property becomes subject to ordinary methods
and jurisdiction of courts of competent jurisdiction.
There is no power in the District Court to issue an ex parteinjunction,
without notice or service of process, attempting to restrain a creditor
suing in a State outside the jurisdiction of the District Court. Ancillary jurisdiction in aid of the jurisdiction of the District Court exists under the act- of June 25;1910, c "412, 36 Stat. 838. Re Wood &
Henderson, 210 U. S: 246, distinguished.
215 Missouri, 221, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve th jurisdidtion of the bankruptcy court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander New and Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff, with
whom Mr. Arthur Miller was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error, submitted.
Mr. Hannis Taylor for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.1
This case is here upon writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Missouri. The facts stated in the record
disclose that on October 19, 1903, an agreement was formulated, having for its purpose the placing of the affairs
of the Acme .Harvester Company, plaintiff in error, in
the hands of a committee of creditors. With this purpose
in view an agreement for the signature of the creditors
was circulated, naming a committee of five and. calling
upon the stockholders of the Acmre Harvester Company
to deposit their shafes with the committee, the directors
and officers of the company to resign their respective
lAnnounced by Mr. Chief Justice White in the absence of Mr-

Justice Day.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

offices, and the committee to have power to elect a board
of directors, who should act antil the debts of the company were paid in full, and, when so paid, the shares of
stock to be redelivered to the owners. In the circular
accompanying the agreement for th signature of the
creditors it was set forth that the-affairs of the company
were in such shape that, if kept a going concern, the debts
could be paid, and deprecating a resort to legal proceedings in court.
On October 22, 1903, certain creditors filed a petition
in involuntary bankruptcy against the Acme Harvester
Company in the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois, seeking to have the company adjudicated a bankrupt, charging that it was insolvent and had made certain preferential transfers of
property. On October 24, 1903, the creditors' committee
issued a circular in which they recited that one-half the
creditors in number and two-thirds in amount had already
signed the creditors' agreement; that a petition in bankruptcy had been filed by i law firm claiming to represent
three claims, for the purpose of throwing the company
into bankruptcy; that one of the creditors had already
withdrawn from the proceedings, and setting forth that
the success of such proceedings would wreck the company,
destroy its business, and sacrifice the value of its assets.
The committee added an expression of its confidence that
the court would deny an application for a receiver, and
leave the business in the hands of the creditors. On
October 26, 1903, the creditors' committee issued another
circular, in which it was said that the United States D)istrict Court in Chicago had refused to appoint- a receiver,
and in so doing the judge had said:
"This estate is a very large one, and is in the hands of a
committee of reputable creditors. It is my judgment that
the creditors ought to manage and control the estate.
The creditors can produce results nmuch better than any

ACME HARVESTER CO. v. BEEKMAN LUM] CO. 303
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.,

receiver in handling a large manufacturing concern like the
Acme Harvester Company."
The circular further said that the court had referred the
matter to the referee in bankruptcy to inquire into the
truth of the allegations of the petition, and to ascertain
whether the petitioning creditors had any standing- or
right to file the petition, adding that there was really only
one creditor left in the bankruptcy proceeding. On
November 2, 1903, a circular was issued in which it was
stated that an overwhelming majority of the creditors
had signified their approval of the plan, and had executed
and forwarded the agreement to the creditors' committee.
On December 2, 1903, the Acme HarveSter Company, .by
its vice-president, wrote to the Beekman Lumber Com-'
pany, calling attention to the fact that the Lumber Company had not yet signed the creditors' agreement, and
saying:
"You may not be aware that United States Judge Kohlsaat has stopped the matter of any one bringing suit
against this company or endeavoring to throw it into
bankruptcy, he having decided that we are solvent and
that the only reasonable and fair way to handle the business, paying its debts, etc., is through the medium of
the credit -committee selected by our heaviest creditors.
-This being the case the only basis on which your claim
will 'eceive recognition is by joining with the balance of
our creditors, signing the agreement, thus putting yourself
on record that you are a creditor and are entitled to such
dividends as from time to time the committee might declare."
The Beekman Lumber Company, it- appeas, did not
sign the creditors' agreement, nor, so far as the record
discloses, prove its claim in bankrupt6y7 and on December 7, 1903, filed a petition in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Missouri; for the'purpose of recovering a judgment against the Acme Harvester Company upon an ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

count for lumber sold and delivered prior to the institution
of the proceedings in bankruptcy. No trustee having
been selected in the bankruptcy proceedings, the Acme
Harvester Company appeared in the state court to file a
motion to stay the proceedings, setting up the pending
proceedings in bankruptcy. This motion was sustained
on January 11, 1904. On May 14, 1904, motion to stay
was overruled, and the former order set aside. On October 3, 1904, a petition was filed in the District Court of
the United States at Chicago, where the bankruptcy proceedings were pending, for an injunction against the Beekman Lumber Company to restrain it from further pursuing its action in the state court. An injunction was
granted, without notice to the Beekman Lumber Company,
on ex parte hearing the same day. From reports in the
record it appears that the creditors' committee took charge
of the company's property, and, as such committee, made
reports to the United States District judge at Chicago of
the doings of the committee in the management of the
property, purchases, sales, etc. The creditors' committee
also issued a statement to the creditors, showing the
results of the business, enclosing copies of the reports
made to the Federal District Court, and recommending
a reorganization of the company on the basis of stock
issued to creditors, at par, for their claims, and fifty cents
on the dollar to creditors who did not go into the reorganization. A circular letter, issued by the committee
on April 1, 1905, states that two-thirds of the creditors had
already been heard from, about eighty per cent (80%) of
them aesired stock, and the rest preferred fifty per cent
(50%) in cash.
On October 12, 1904, the Acme Harvester Company
answered in the state court, setting up the pendency of
the bankruptcy proceeding and the issuing of the injunction in the District Court of Chicago. Replication was
filed by the plaintiff, and, upon trial, a judgment on the

ACME HARVESTER CO. v. BEEKMAN LUM. CO. 305
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

account was directecl and rendered on June 20, 1905, in
favor of the plaintiff for the amount of its account. Thereafter proceedings in review were prosecuted to the Supreme
Court of Missouri, and that court held that the District
Court of the United States had no authority to issue the
injunction against proceedings in the state court, and held
further that the facts disclosed that the District Court of
the United States had declined to adjudicate the Acme
Harvester Company a bankrupt, and left the property
to be administered outside of the Bankruptcy Law, and
that the prosecution in bankruptcy had been abandoned.
215 Missouri, 221.
A motion to dismiss the proceedings for want of jurisdiction was made in this court and passed for consideration to the merits. The contention is that inasmuch as
the Supreme Court of the State found, as a matter of
fact, that the bankruptcy proceedings had been concluded,
by denial of the adjudication and an abandonment of the
proceedings, that this finding of fact is binding upon this
court upon writ of error to the state court, and therefore
there is no substantial basis for the writ of error. We are
of the opinion that the contention in this respect is not
well founded. The defendant below set up a proceeding
in a Federal court as a protection against further prosecution in the state court. It further set up the issuing of
an injunction in the Federal court, undertaking to stay
*proceedings in the state court. Thereby the defendant
claimed the benefit of a Federal right, which brought the
case within § 709 of the Revised-,Statutes of the United
States. The denial of a right Otaimed under the judgment of a court of the United 9tates lays the foundation
for a review in this court. Pittsburgh &c. Railway Co.
v. Loan & Trust Co., 172 U. S. 493; Deposit-Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499.
The alleged finding of fact that the jurisdiction of the
Federal court had ended cannot conclude this court in
VOL. ccXXiI-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

reviewing a question of this character. The defendant
asserted the power and jurisdiction of the Federal court
invoked before the beginning of the state proceedings,
and alleged its sufficiency to protect dt against further
proceedings in the state court. The right of ultimate determination of a contention of that character in this court
cannot be defeated by the finding of the state court that
the Federal court had exceeded or ended its jurisdiction.
The determination of a question of that kind is not a finding upon a disputed question of fact, nor within that class
of cases in which this court has repeatedly held that the
facts as found in the state court would be regarded as
conclusive here.. Moreover, the case involved a construction of the Bankruptcy Act. As the plaintiff in error contended that the proper construction of the act would defeat the jurisdiction of the state court, the adverse ruling
gave this court jurisdiction. Rector v. Bank, 200 U. S.405.
Proceeding, then, to the determination of the case upon
its merits, the first question is, Should the state court have
declined to exercise its jurisdiction when the pending proceeding in bankruptcy was set up in denial of the right to
entertain further proceedings in the state tribunal? It appears from the facts already stated that the petition in
bankruptcy had been filed some time before the attempt to
attach the property of the bankrupt in the hands of the
garnishee in the state court. There is no dispute upon this
record that the money attached was owing to the bankrupt
and was unquestionably its property.
Whatever may be the limitations of the doctrine declared by this court, speaking by the late Chief Justice
'Fuller in Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1, 14, where it is
said: "It is as true of the present law (1898) as it was of
that of 1867, that the filing of the petition is a caveat to
all the world, and in effect an attachment and injunction,
Bank v. Sherman, 101 U. S.403; and on adjudication, title
to the bankrupt's property became vested in the trustee,

ACME HARVESTER CO. v. BEEKMAN LUM. CO. 307
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

§§ 70, 21e, with actual or constructive possession, and
placed in the custody of the bankruptcy court," it is none
the less certain that an attachment of the bankrupt's
property after the filing of the petition and before adjudication cannot operate to remove the bankrupt's estate from
the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court for the purpose
of administration under the act of Cohgress. It is the
purpose of the Bankruptcy Law, passed in pursuance of
the power of Congress to establish a uniform system of
bankruptcy throughout the United States, to place the
property of the bankrupt under the control of the court,
wherever it is found, with a view to its equal distribution
among the creditors. The filing of the petition is an assertion of jurisdiction with a view to the determination of
the status of the bankrupt and a settlement and distribution of his estate. The exclusive jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy court is so far in rem that the estate is regarded
as in custodia legis from the filing of the petition. It is
true that under § 70a of the act of 1898 the trustee of the
estate, on his appointment and qualification, is vested by
operation of law with the title of the bankrupt as of the
date he was adjudicated a bankrupt, but there are many
provisions of the law which show its purpose to hold the
property of the bankrupt intact from the time of the filing
of the petition, in order that it may be administered under
the law if an adjudication in bankruptcy shall follow the
beginning of the proceedings. Paragraph 5, § 70a, in
reciting the property which vests in the trustee, says thereshall vest "property which, prior to the filing of the petition, he [the bankrupt] could by any means have transferred or which might have been levied upon and sold
under judicial process against him" [the bankrupt]. Under § 67c attachments within four months before the
filing of the petition are dissolved by the adjudication
in the event of the insolvency of the bankrupt, if its enforcement would work a preference. Provision is made

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

for the prompt taking possession of the bankrupt's property, before adjudication if necessary (§ 69a). Every
person is forbidden to receive any property after the filing
of the petition, with intent to defeat the purposes of the
act. These provisions, and others might be recited, show
the policy and purpose of the Bankruptcy Act to hold the
estate in the custody of the court for the benefit of creditors after the filing of the petition and until the question
of adjudication is determined. To permit creditors to
attach the bankrupt's property between the nling of the
petition and the time of adjudication would be To encourage a race of diligence t, defeat the purposes of the act
and prevent the equal distribution of the estate among
all creditors of the same class whicb is the policy of the law.
The filing of the petition asserts the jurisdiction of the
Federal court, the issuing of its process brings the defendant into court, the selection of the trustee is to follow upon
the adjudication, and thereupon the estate belonging to
the bankrupt, held by him or for him, vests in the trustee.
Pending the proceedings the law holds the property to
abide the decision of the court upon the question of adjudication as effectively as if an attachment had.been issued,
and. prevents creditors from defeating the purposes of the
law by bringing separate attachment suits which would
virtually amount to preferences in fav~or of such creditors.
See in this connection the well-considered cases of State
Bank v. Cox, 143 Fed. Rep. 91, C. C. App. of the Seventh
Circuit; Board of County Commi-sioners v. Hurley, C. C.
of Appeals of Eighth Circuit, 169 Fed. Rep. 92, 9A
It follows that, if the bankruptcy proceedings were
pending, so that the bankruptcy court'acquired jurisdiction over the estate, it was error for the state court to
proceed to a judgment and appropriation of the property on the attachment suit of a single creditor. It therefore becomes necessary to inquire whether the state court
was right in determining that the bankruptcy court had

ACME HARVESTER CO. v. BEEKMAN LUM. CO. 309
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lost its jurisdiction because of the proceedings had therein.
In addition to the facts stated, the Supreme Court of
Missouri, in its opinion, said that at the time of the hearing in that court, five years after the institution of bankriptcy proceedings, counsel admitted that no adjudication in bankruptcy had as yet taken place. The case
presented therefore shows that the bankruptcy court, upon
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, found an ou standing creditors' agreement under which it was proposed
to administer and distribute the estate. It declined to
appoint a receiver; it recognized the propriety of the proceedings of the creditors' committee; it received reports
of the creditors' committee, and allowed it for years to go
on in the operation of the property, to matfire, a plan for
the settlement of the debts outside of the court and not
contemplated in the Bankruptcy Act. The creditors in
large numbers signified a purpose to take stock in a reorganization, and for more than five years after the time
of the filing of the petition, it was found by the Supr6ine Court of Missouri, had made no attempt to adjudicate the corporation a bankrupt, or proceed to the
settlement of the estate under the requirements of the act.
It was the duty of the bankruptcy court, if it intended to
administer the property under the Bankruptcy Law, to
promptly determine the question of adjudication, to proceed With the selection of a trustee and the administration
and distribution of the estate, as required by the act. This
it evidently declined to do, and permitted the creditors'
committee, which had been organized for the avowed purpose of defeating court proceedings, to administer the estate, to buy and sell property, and mature a plan for the
reorganization of the concern. This may have been for
the benefit of the creditors, but it was not the admiistration of the law as laid down in the Bankruptcy-Law. It'
is not within the province of the bankruptcy court to deny
an adjudication in bankruptcy, and then hold jurisdiction

. 310

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

over the propertyfo the purpose of allowing some of the
creditors to effect a reorganization and distribution of
the, property.
We cannot s ,that the Supreme Court of Missouri was
wrong; indeed, we think it was right in reaching the con-clusion that the District Court had declined to adjudicate
the corporation a bankrupt and vest its property in a
ustee, and deeming it best for the creditors to follow
out their plans, had found that the case was not one callinig for the intervention of the bankruptcy court. Indeed,
there is nothing in the record to contradict the statenent
of the circular in evidence in the court below. that the .court
had found the corporation solvent. With the question of
adjudication determined against the right to proceed in
bankruptcy, the jurisdiction of the District Court ended,
and the property became subject to the ordinary methods
of procedure in courts of competent jurisdiction.
It is suggested that even now the bankruptcy court may
proceed to an adjudication, but this suggestion is at war
with all that has been done with the knowledge and sanction of the District Court. As we have seen, the property
to be administered In the bankruptcy court is that which
belonged to the bankrupt at the filing of the petition, and
then subject to his debts. This property can never be
recovered. With the sanction of the District Court much
of it has been sold, its character has ,been changed, ad
it has been dealt with by the creditors' committee regardless of the provisions of the Bankruptcy Law. Many of
the creditors have signified their purpose to adjust their
claims by taking stock in a reorganization, or fifty cents
on the aollar, of the amount of their claims. The whole
proceeding makes it clear that the District Court denied
,the adjudicatie 1 n.nd declined to exercise its jurisdiction
as a bankruptcy court.
As to the iniunction, we are of the opinion that there was.
no power in the Distriet Court to issue an ex parte injunc-

,ACME HARVESTER CO. v. BEEKMAN LUM. CO. 911
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, without notice or service of process, attempting to
restrain the Beekman Lumber Company from suing in a
State outside the jurisdiction of the District Court. Such
proceeding 'could only have binding force upon the Lmnber Company if jurisdiction were obtained over it by pioceedings in a court having jurisdiction, and upon service
of process upon such creditor.
Whether ancillary proceedings could be had in a District Court in aid of the jurisdiction of an original court of
bankruptcy was a subject of much discussion and divers
decisions in the Federal courts. In Babbitt, Trustee, v.
Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102, and on the petition of Elkus in the
matter of the Madison Steel Company, a bankrupt, Elkus,
Petitioner, 216 U. S. 115, the matter came before this
court, and it was there determined that there was ancillary jurisdiction in the courts of bankruptcy, in aid of
the original jurisdiction in the bankruptcy court, to make
orders and issue processes summarily in aid of the original
jurisdiction. In the opinion in Babbitt v. Dutcher it was
pointed out by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the
court, that the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy courts under
the act of 1898 was limited to their respective territorial
limits, and was in substance the same as that provided
by the act of 1867, giving such courts jurisdiction in their
respective districts in matters of proceedings in bankruptcy. The necessary deduction from these cases is
'to deny to the District Courts jurisdiction such as was
sought to be asserted in this case by the issuing of an injunction against one not a party to the proceeding, and
which undertook to have effect in the distant jurisdiction
outside the territorial jurisdiction of the District Court.
Under the act of 1898, as expounded in the two cases
in 216 U. S., supra, the injunction might have been sought
in the District Court of the United States in the District
in Missouri where personal ser-ice could have been made
upon the Beekman Lumber Company. Since the decisidn

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

in the cases just referred to, Congress has passed the act
of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 838, c. 412, amending the Bankruptcy Law, specifically giving ancillary jurisdiction over
persons and property within their respective territorial
limits to the District Courts of the United States in aid
of the receiver or trustee appointed in a bankruptcy proceeding pending in another court of bankruptcy. Statutes of the U. S. of 1909-1911, part 1, page 838.
Nor is there anything in the decision in In re Wood and
Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, running counter to the conclusion herein announced. In that case it was held that under
§ 64d, giving the bankruptcy court having jurisdiction
of the estate the right to determine the amount of an attorney's fee paid out of the estate in anticipation of bankruptcy proceedings, that notice might be served outside
the district with a view to a hearing to determine the
amount of such compensation. In that case it was expressly held that § 64d was sui generis, and the right to
send notice to the attorneys outside of the district was
based upon the theory of that section that the property
was within the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, which
could alone determine the amount to be deducted for the
attorney's fee in anticipation of the proceeding; that the
proceeding was administrative in character, and that for
its purpose a hearing might be had upon form of notice sufficient to advise the attorneys that the court was proceeding to act under the authority conferred by the law.
Finding no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, it is affirmed.

