UNITED STATES v. PLYLER.
222 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

them in Ohio if they had not been transported "from"
Kentucky "into" Ohio.
In United States v. El Paso & N. E. Railroad Co., 178
Fed. Rep. 846, and in United States v. Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R., 181 Fed. Rep. 882, the same construction
was given to the statute that we have given it. Also by
the Circuit Court of Appeals}for the Eighth Circuit in
St. Lbuis. St. Louis Merchants' Bridge Terminal Ry. Co.
v. United States, 188 Fed. Rep. 191. In United States v.
Southern Railway Co. (Circuit Court Dist. S. C.), 187
Fed. Rep. 209, a contrary ruling was made, and a connecting carrier which received stock outside of the limits of
the quarantined State was held to be liable.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PLYLER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 440. Argued October 19, 1911.-Decided October 30, 1911.
It is not essential to charge or prove an actual financial or property
loss to make a case of defrauding the United States.
Section 5418, Rev. Stat., prohibits the forging of written vouchers
required upon examination by the Civil Service Commission of the
United States, and presenting such vouchers to the Commissioners.

THE facts are stated in th opinion.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
Section 5418, Rev. Stat., prohibits -the false making qf
any writing which would work a fraud upon the United
States in its. pecuniary or property rights or in the exercise of its governmental powers and duties.,. United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

v. Lawrence, 13 Blatchf. C. C. 211; State v. Kimball, 50
Maine, 409; State v. Boasso, 38 La. Ann. 202; Cross v.
North Carolina,132 U. S. 131; United States v. Bunting,
82 Fed. Rep. 883; Palmer v. Colladay, 18 App. D. C. 426;
Curley v. United States, 130 Fed. Rep. 1; Haas v. Henkel,
216 U. S. 462; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62.
Property rights of the Government are the very least
of its rights. They are mere incidents, although necessary
ones, to the discharge of those functions for which the
Government was established, and the proper discharge of
which is its paramount concern. The civil service laws
of the.United States and the regulations pursuant to them
were enacted as part of. the public policy of the United
States to secure the appointment of honest and capable
*men to office, and integrity and efficiency in the administration of public affairs. The forgery of the voucher and
the medical certificate was intended and dalculated to
deceive the Civil Service Commission and to injure and
defraud the United States, by bringing into a position of
trust and confidence a man who, by the very means of
getting into that position, demonstrated his utter unfitness for it,.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant
in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs.

By

This is an indictment for forging vouchers required
upon examination by the Civil Service Commission of
the United States, certifying to the character., physical
capacity, etc., of the applicant, the defendant, and for
presenting the same to the Commission. The District
Court held that the acts were not frauds against the United
States within the q'ontemplation of R. S., ยง 5418, and dis-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged the defendant. The Goveimment excepted and
brought the case to this'court. It now must be regarded
as established that "it is not essential to charge or prove an
actual financial or property loss to make a case under the
statute." The section covers this case. Haas v. Henkel,
216 U. S. 462, 480; Curley v. United States, 130 Fed. Rep.
1; United States v. Bunting, 82 Fed. Rep. 883.
Judgment reversed.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 3. Original. Motion to proceed with the further hearing and determination of the case. Submitted October 10, 1911.-Motion overruled October 30, 1911.

Even if the question in litigation is important and should be disposed
of without undue delay, a State cannot be expected to move with
the celerity of an individual; a motion made in this case by complainant that the court proceed to determine all questions left open
by the decision in 220 U. S. 1, denied without prejudice.
The conference suggested by this court, 220 U. S. 36, is one in the
cansie to settle the decree and not to effect an independent dompromise out of court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Williams, Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, for the complainant in support of the
motion.
Mr. W. G. Conley/ Attorney General of the State of
West Virginia, for tlhe defendant in reponse to motion.
MR.JUSTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion on behalf of the Commonwealth of
Virginia that thecourt proceed to determine all q-tstions
vob. ccxxii-2

