LENMAN v. JONES.

222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

LENMAN v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 19. Argued October 27, 1911.-Decided November 13, 1911.
In the absence of fraud, ignforance of who the real vendee is does not
relieve the vendor from specific performance of a contract to sell
real estate.
The vendor is not relieved of a contract to sell, absolute as to him, because he thought it gave the purchaser an option, but did not require him, to purchase.
One who purchases from the vendee before completion of the contract
to sell, not only the property but all rights of the vendee connected
therewith, becomes the equitable owner of the property to the same
extent as the original vendee and can compel specific performance
of the original contiact.
The original vendee against whom no relief is asked and who has to
the extent of his interest complied with the contract is not a necessary party to a suit brought by the subvendee against the original
veildor to compel specific performance.
The contract to sell involved in this case being clear enough to indicate to lawyer and layman the purchaser, the seller, the land and
the terms, it satisfies .the statute of frauds. Code, District of Columbia, ยง 1117.
33 App. D. C. 7, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and validity
of a contract for the sale of real estate in the District of
Columbia, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. S. Wortkington for appellant.
Mr. Hugh H. Obearand Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Court of A15peals

of the District of Columbia affirming a decree of the Su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

preme Court for the specific performance of a contract
for the sale of land. 33 App. D. C. 7. The, appellant
was the owner of the land by inheritance, subject to the
dower of her mother, who has died pending this cause.
After some previous offers, Early & Lampton real estate
brokers in Washington, understanding that the defendant
would take $200,000, prepared a document which- the defendant, after some consultation with others, signed. So
far as material it is as follows: "Office of Early & Lampton,
Real Estate & Loan Brokers, 615 14th Street N. W.Washington, D. C., May 2nd, 1905. Received of Fannie
E. Wilhoite a deposit of One hundred ($100.00) Dollars,
to be applied to part payment of purchase of sub Lots.
4, 5, 6 and 7, square 222 known as the Lenman Building,
sold her for Two hundred thousand dollars net on fol-.
lowing terms [with details as to payment, title, time,
&c.] Early & Lampton, Agents for Fannie E. Wilhoite.
Confirmed, ratified, and approved: Isobel H. Lenman
(Owner). Fannie E. Wilhoite. Fannie E. Wilhoite
(Purchaser), Per E. & L." Mrs. Wilhoite seems to have
been a fig urehead used by the brokers, and to have played
merely a formal part.
The next day Mrs. Wilhoite signed an instrument in
similar form acknowledging the receipt of five hundred
dollars from the appellee, part payment for the same land,
sold to him for $213,250, cash, the purchaser to make full
settlement within five days from date. The terms varied
from those in the first paper, by which $150,000, payable
in the. years, was to be secured by deed of trust. But
there is no trouble on that score, as the appellee simply.
is trying to hold the appellant to her own terms. Mrs.
Wilhoite subsequently executed- a deed to -the appellee,
although it never was acknowledged or recorded. Deinand and lender have been made, but the appellant has
refused and refuses to perform, and the appellee brought
this bill.

LENMAN v. JONES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

-We will deal with the grounds for the refusal in the order
in which they were presented. In the first place it was
said that the conduct of the appellee and those under whom
he claims precludes him from equitable relief. This needs
no discussion. Even if it were true, as suggested but not
found or proved, that when the bargain with the defendant was made, the appellee, Jones, was behind the
brokers, and a trust company of which he was president
was behind him, and that the defendant was not informed
of the facts, she could not complain. It is apparent from
her own testimony that she knew that Mrs. Wilhoite
was oily a figurehead, and the most that can be contended
is that she thought that another person, not the appellee,
most probably was the real man. it does not matter that
she did. She suffered no loss. and moreover Mr. Jones
and his company were under no obligation to disclose
their interest in the absence of fraud, which there is
not the slightest ground to suggest. It also is urged that
the defendant, when she signed the instrument, thought
that it merely gave an option.- This is an immaterial
afterthought. If she did not know what she was doing
she had only herself to thank, but no even one-sided mistake is proved.
Some slight support for the preceding objection is sought
also in the second ground upon which it is argued that
the court erred. 'The bill alleges that Mrs. Wilhoite sold
to the plaintiff, the appellee, all her rights under her contract with the appellant, and it now is urged that Jones
was not an assignee but a subpurchaser and cannot recover on the allegations of the bill as they stand. There
is a suggestion as little warranted as those that we have
mentioned that the form of the bill also manifests bad
faith. But the argument is mainly on the technical point
that the proofs fail to sustain the allegations. We do not
see the failure. When Mrs. Wilhoite contracted to sell
the land, she contracted to transfer all the rights she got

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion bf the Court.

222 U. S.

by her contract with the owners of the land. As she in
popular legal Linguage became the equitable owner by
her contract, she made the appellee the equitable owner
by her contract with him-that is she gave him the right
to insist in her place that the legal owner should give up
the legal estate upon fulfillment of the conditions agreed.
The deed from Mrs. Wilhoite although purporting to be
made by Miss Lenman and her, reciting the transactions
on which it is founded, would be sufficient to satisfy the
allegations of the bill in the strictest sense. True, it
purports to convey the land, but thereby it conveys all
of Mrs. Wilhoite's rights in and to the land. It was executed by Mrs. Wilhoite in aid of the'enforcement of Miss
Lenman's agreement, and therefore is not to be read as
conditional upon the signature of Miss Lenman. See
Buchannon v. ,Upshaw, '1 How. 56.
The foregoing considerations afford an answer to the
third objection: that Mrs. Wilhoite is i ot made a party
to the suit; in view of the fact that it %Vasnot taken in the
pleadings, or, so far as appears, before the argument in
the Court of Appeals. Mrs. Wilhoite has no real interest,
and it is clear that the appellant is put in no danger by
the decree. The point is urged as an afterthought, and
no end of justice would be served by allowing it to prevail.
Finally it is said that the instrument sued upon does
not satisfy the statute of frauds. Code, D. C., ยง 1117.
This is a desperate contention, like the rest. There are
certain formal absurdities in the document, but it leaves
no doubt in the mind of either lawyer or layman as to who
was purchaser, who seller, what the land or what the
terms. Upon the whole case, without further discussion,
we are of opinion that the Plaintiff is entitled to prevail.
Decree affirmed.

