'210

0OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

BANKER BROTHERS COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
tRROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA,

No. 72. Argued November 17, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
The relation of vendor and vendee, and not that of principal and
agent; exists where the manufacturer sells goods to another under
exclusive contract and delivers goods only on payment of draft
attached to bill of lading.
In this case held, that goods. manufactured in another State and delivered only, in pursuance of contract, after payment of draft attached to bill of lading, are at rest and subject to the-laws of the
State while in the hands of the consignee before delivery by him to
a purchaser from him, notwithstanding the consignee only ordered
them after a contract with the purchaser had been made.
Where the relation of principal and agent exists between one selling
goods in one State which are -manufactured in another State and
the manufacturer, sales made by the former within his own State
are not interstate commerce transactions but are subject to the
taxing power of the State.
Where the transactipn of sale of an article manufactured in another
State is wholly intrastate, as between vendor 'nd vendee, it does not
become interstate and immune from state taxation because the purchaser pays freight from the place of manufacture or because the
purchaser obtains a warranty direct from the manufacturer.

THE facts, which involve 'the constitutionality of a
statute of Pennsylvania taxing sales of automobiles, as
e ifforced in this case, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwdrd J.. Kent ahd Mr. Harvey A. Miller for
plaintiff in error:
The. plaintiff in error is engaged . in interstate commerce, and, therefore, not liable to taxation by the State.
Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,

203 U. S.507; Colwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622;

BANKER BROTHERS v. PENNSYLVANIA.
222 U. S.

211

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Robbins v. Shelby County, 120 U. S. 489; Wilton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289;
Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 166.
The automobile sQld is always actually ordered and the
order signed by the purchaser submitted to the factory at
Buffalo, New York, where it must first be accepted, after
which the autombbile is shipped to fill the order to the
particular individual named therein.
Mr. George H. Calvert, with whom Mr. John C. Bell,
Attorney General of the State of Pennsylvania, Mr. James
M. Magee, Mr. Donald Thompson and Mr. Murdoch Kendrick, were on the brief, for defendant in error:
Merchandise, even though an article of interstate commerce, is subject to state taxation, provided the adt imposing such tax does not attempt to regulate interstate
commerce or discriminate against it. Brown v- Maryland,
12 Wheat. 436; American Steel & Wire Co. V. Speed, 192
U. S. 520; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 320; American
Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S: 146; Darnell v. Memphis,
208 U. S. 119; Phillipsv. Mobile, 208 U. S. 479.
Upon receipt of the automobile by Banker Brothers
Company, it had reached its destination and was at rest
in the State within the meaning of that rule. General Oil
Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 228; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.*
622; Pittsburg Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 578; Diamond
Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 96.
The act levying the tax does not attempt to regulate
interstate commerce and does not discriminate against it:
Robbins v. Shelby Co., 120 U. S. 501.
The right of the State to tax trades, professions, and
occupations, cannot be questioned by the Federal Government, Knisely v. Cotterel, 196 Pa. St. 628; Ficklen v.
Shelby County, 145 U. S. 1.
Admitting that the majority of defendant's sales are of
foreign cars, yet this fact is not material in determining

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S;

their liability under the act of 1899 because they axe
engaged in the general' business of automobile dealers.
Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Hopkins v. United
States, 171 U. S. 592; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 35.
MR. JusTicE. LAmAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The Banker Brothers Company, a corporation doing
business in Pittsburg, was charged, as retail venders, with
a tax of 1 per cent on $351,000 on sales of automobiles to
persons in Pennsylvania under a statute of that State.
It denied liability on the ground that the sales were interstate transactions. A decision of that point involves the
question as to whether Banker Brothers Company acted
as principal or as agent of a New York manufacturer.
It appears that the George N. Pierce Company was
engaged in the business of manufacturing autoniobiles in
Buffalo, and in 1905 made a contract by which it agreed
"to build for and sell automobiles to Banker Brothers
Company at twenty per cent less than-list price. Deliveries to 'be f. o. b. Buffalo as soon as practicable after
order for deliveries are received. Payments to be made in
cash."

The Banker Brothers Company kept no machines in
stock except those used for demonstration, and were allowed to sell only within a restricted territory on terms
stipulated by the manufacturer. The purchaser of the
machine was to pay at least ten per cent when he signed a
printed form addressed to Banker Brothers Company requesting it "to enter my order for
motor car, for
which I agree to pay the list price f. o. b. factory, as follows: $

-

upon signing this order, and the balance

upon delivery of the car to me."
The name of the Pierce Company did not appear anywhere on this printed form furnished by it, but when the
Banker, Brothers Company accepted the order it remitted
the cash to the Pierce Company. If the latter accepted

BANKER BROTHERS v. PENNSYLVANIA.
222 U. S.

213

Opinion of the Court.

the order, it agreed thereupon to make the automobile and
ship it, drawing on Banker Brothers Company for the
balance of the list price, less twenty per cent, with bill of
lading attached. The Banker Brothers Company, on
paying the draft, took up the bill of lading, received from
the carrier an automobile which though shipped in interstate commerce had become at rest in the State of Pennsylvania. Banker Brothers Company had the title and
delivered it to the buyer on his paying the balance of the
purchase money. Compare Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S.
124. The written contract was silent on the subject, but
it was stipulated that the Pierce Company warranted the
machine direct to. the purchaser.
It is contended that Banker Brothers Company were
agents and the Pierce Company an undisclosed principal.
It is urged that the sale was an interstate transaction between the manufacturer and the purchaser, with Banker
Brothers Company merely acting as an agent which looked
after the delivery of the machine and collected the purchase price.
This is one of the common cases in which parties find
it to their interest to occupy the position of vendor and
vendee for some purposes under a contract containing
terms which, for the purpose of restricting sales and securing payment, come near to creating, the relation of principal and agent. But as between Banker Brothers Company and the Pittsburg purchaser, there canbe no doubt
that it occupied the position of vendor. As such it was
bound by its contract to him and under the duty of paying to the State a tax on the sale.
The name of the Pierce Company was not mentioned
in the order signed by the purchaser. Had there been a
breach of its terms he would have had a cause of action
against the Banker Brothers Company, with whom alone
he dealt. If he had failed to complete the purchase the
Pierce Company would have no right to sue him on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

contract. The fact that he was liable for the freight by
virtue of the agreement to "pay the list price f. o. b.
factory" did not convert it ,into a sale by the manufacturer at the factory; neither was that result accomplished because, with the machine, Banker Brothers
Company also delivered to the buyer i~n Pittsburg a
warranty from the manufacturer direct.
These were mere incidents of the intrastate contract of
sale between Banker Brothers Company and the purchaser in Pittsburg, who was not concerned with the question as to how the machine was acquired by his vendor,
or whether that company bought it from another dealer
in the same city or.from the manufacturer in New York.
The contract was made in Pennsylvania, and was there
to be performed by the delivery of the automobile and
the payment of the balance of the purchase price. See
American Steel & Wire. Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500; American Express v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, 146. The court properly held it was not an interstate transaction, but taxable
under the laws of Pennsylvania.
Affirmed.

