UNITED STATES v. CONGRESS CONST'N CO. 199
222 U. S.

Counsel fof Parties.

UNITED STATES v. CONGRESS CONSTRUCTION CO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 63. Argued November 14, 15, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
Jurisdiction of the 'Circuit Court is in issue under ยง 5 of the Judiciary
Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, whenever, the power of
the court to hear and determine the cause as defined or limited by
the Constitution or statutes of the United States is in controversy;
and. that covers a case where the jurisdiction of the particular Circuit Court is questioned under the statute prescribing the form
and place of the action.
Under the Materialmen Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278,
as amended February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, an action for
performance of a bond given under such act can only be instituted
in the district in which the contract was to be performed.
A provision in a statute prescribing that an action shall only be
brought in a particular district operates pro tanto to displace the
provisions upon that subject in the General Jurisdiction Act of
1884, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court

under ยง5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891 and of the Circuit
Court of actions on materialmen bonds, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney Genqral Harr for the United
States.
Mr. Jesse R. Long, with whom Mr. Hobart P. Young
was on the. brief, for Pan-American Bridge Co., plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Allen G. Mills for defendant in error Crowen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTICE VAN DFVANTER

222 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action by the United States against the
principal and sureties on a bond, given conformably to
the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, as amended
February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, for the performance of , contract for the construction of a public building,
and coritaining the required additional condition relating
to the payment of claims for labor and materials. As
stated in the declaration, the right of action arose out of
the fact that, although the building had been satisfactorily
completed and full payment therefor had been made to the
contractor, the latter had failed to make payment to
designated subcontractors who had furnished labor and
materials used in the construction of the building. The
action was brought in the Circuit Court of the district
whereof the defendants were inhabitants, which, as appeared on the face of the declaration, was not the district
in which the contract was to be performed. The subcontractors intervened and asked to have their claims adjudicated and judgment rendered thereon. The principal
in the bond did not appear, but the sureties appeared specially and interposed pleas to the jurisdiction upon the
ground that under the statute, conformably to which the
bond was given, power to entertain the action was vested
exclusively in the Circuit Court of the district wherein
the contract was to be performed. The pleas were sustained pnd the action dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
whereupon this direct writ of error was sued out and the
jurisdictional question duly certified.
Before coming to that question it is necessary to consider
a motion to dismiss, wherein the position is taken that the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not in issue in the
sense of the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c.
517, 26 Stat. 826. The position evidently rests upon a mis-

UNITED STATES v. CONGRESS CONST'N CO. 201
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conception of the true import of the clause, "In any case
in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue," in that
section, as interpreted by repeated decisions of this.court,
which, with one accord, hold that the jurisdiction of a
Circuit or District Court is in issue-in the' sense intended
whenever the power of the. court 'to hear and determine
the cause, as defined or limited by the Constitution or
statutes of the United States, is in controversy. The cases
'of Louisville Trust Co.v. Knott, 191 U-; S.225; United States
v. Larkin, 208 U. S.333, and Fore River ,$hipbuildingCo.v.
Hagg, 219 U. S.1.75, cited in sulpport of the motion, do not
conflict, but fully accord, with this holding. In the first
case, as this court was careful to state, the power of.the
Circuit Court under the Federal law was not in controversy, but only its authority, in the exercise ofthat power,
to proceed in harmony with recognized rules of law applicable alike to all courts, whether Federal or state, possessing concurrent jurisdiction. In the second case, neither the interpretation nor the operation of any statute
defining or. limiting the lower of the District Court was in
issue, but only the place of seizurd of jewels sought to be
forfeited as fraudulently imported, which was a subsidiary
matter not amounting to a jurisdictional question in the
sense of the statute. In the third case, the issue related,
as was expressly said, to the applicability of a rule of law
which was general in its nature and quite as controlling in
other courts as in those of Federal creation. And so it
was that in those cases the jurisdiction of the courts below
was held not to have been in issue in the sense intended.
On the other hand, in DavidsonBros. Marble Co. v. United
States ex rel. Gibson, 213 U. S. 10, a case closely in point
here, the application of the same guiding principle operated
to sustain our jurisdiction. There, as here, the objection
to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was that the action
was brought in one district, when, under the Federal
statutes, rightly interpreted, it' should have been brought

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

in another. The objection was overruled, the case came
here upon a direct writ of error, and the ruling, was reviewed and reversed; it being said in the opinion (p. 18):
"A party who is sued in the wrong district, and does not
waive the objection, may of right appear specially and
object to the jurisdiction of the court, and, the decision
being against his objection, may of right bring the question directly to this court."
Here the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, in the sense
of its power to entertain the action, in view of the statutory
provisions bearing upon the place for bringing such an action, was directly in issue, and so the case is rightly here
upon a direct writ of error. The motion to dismiss is accordingly denied.
Whether or not, under the act of 1894 as amended in
1905, power to -entertain the action was vested exclusively in the Circuit Court of the district wherein the
contract was to be performed, is the question which was
presented to the court below and answered in the affirmative; and the correctness of that answer turns upon
the nature of the action and the provisions of the
statute.
According to the declaration, the contract for the construction of the building had been satisfactorily performed, full payment therefor had been made to the contractor, tle conditions of the bond had been breached
orily by his failure to pay designated subcontractors for
labor and materials used in the construction of the building, and the object sought to be attained was the adjudication and enforcement of those demands, unaccompanied by
any pecuniary demand of the United States. Manifestly,
therefore, the action, although brought by the United
States, was essentially one in behalf of the subcontractors,
and the respective interests of the United States and the
subcontractors therein were in no wise different from what
they would have been had the action been brought in the

UNITED STATES v. CONGRESS CONST'N CO. 203
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

name of the United States by the *subcontractorsfor the
use and benefit of the latter.
The statute, whilst authorizing persons holding unpaid
demands for labor or materials to bring such an action in
the name of the United States, expressly requires that it
be brought "in the Circuit Court of the United States in
.the district in which said contract was to be performed
and executed, irrespective of the amount in controversy,
and not elsewhere," and also provides that only one such
action shall be brought and that it shall be so instituted
and conducted, in point of notice and otherwise, that all
demands of that class may -be adjudicated therein and
included in a single recovery.
Considering the purpose of the statute, as. manifested
in these provisions, we think the restriction respecting the
place of suit was intended to apply, and does apply, to all
actions brought'in the name of the United States for the
purpose only of ecuring an adjudication and enforcement
of demands for labor or materials, whether instituted by
-the United States or by the creditors themselves. The
reasons for the restriction are as applicable in the one instance as in the other, and it is difficult to .believe that
it was intended that it should be less potent when the
United States acts for the creditors than when they act for
themselves. The contention to the contrary is rested
largely upon- the supposition that, in instances like the
present, where the defendants, or some of then, are inhabitants of another district, there is an insuperable barrier to the maintenance of the action in the district wherein
the contact was to be performed. But this supposition
is a mistaken one, for the provision restricting the place of
suit operates pro tanto to displace the provision upon that
subject in the General Jurisdictional Act,.25 Stat.- 433,.
c. 866, ยง 1, and amply authorizes !he Circuit Court in the
district wherein the action is required to be brought to obtain jurisdiction of the persons of the defendants through

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

the service upon them of its ,process in whatever district
they may be found.
We conclude that the question of jurisdiction was rightly
resolved by the Circuit Court. and its judgment is affirmed.

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, EX REL. TURNER
v.FISHER, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 60.

Argued November 14, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Where, under the provisions of acts of Congress, and after a hearing,
the names of relators were duly entered as Creek Freedmen by blood
on the rolls made and approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
rights were acquired of which the freedmen could not be deprived
without that character of notice and opportunity to be heard es-

sential to due process of law. Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S.249.
Notice to the attorney of such freedmen, given a few hours before the
hearing of a motion to strike their names, on the ground that their
enrollment had been secured by perjury, was not such notice as
afforded due process. Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 399, 409; Hagar v.
Reclamation Dist., 111 U. S. 708; Iowa Central v. Iowa, 160 U. S.
393; Hovey v. Elliott, .167 U. S.414.
In the absence of other controlling facts, the Secretary of the Interior
could have been required by mandamus to restore the names of
those thus arbitrarily stricken off without notice. Garfieldv. Goldbsy,
211 U. S.249.
But mandamus is not a writ of right. It issues to remedy a wrong, not
to promote one, and will not be granted in aid of those who do not
come into court with claen hands.
Although the petition for the writ alleged that relators were freedmen
duly enrolled and denied the truth of the testimony on which their
names were stricken off, yet where the answer of the Secretary referred to that testimony and alleged, "on information and belief,
that the relators were not freedmen members or members by blood

