OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO

JUNCTION RAILWAY
KING.

2

U. S.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 2, 3, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911:

The repugnancy of the Safety Appliance Law to the Constitution is
not now open to controversy; it has been held constitutional.
Southern Railway Co. v. United States, ante, p. 20.
WAere the constitutional question is not advanced by the defendant
until the trial it does not give jurisdiction of an appeal to this court
from the Circuit Court of Appeals. Macfadden v. United States,
213 U. S. 288.
Where the cause of action is based on a statute of the United States
there is an appeal to this court from the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Although there may be jurisdiction because the cause of action rests
on a statute of the United States, where none of the contentions
directly invoke the interpretation of the statute, but merely the question whether, on the evidence, there was a right of recovery; the case
is of the character of cases in which it was the purpose of the Judiciary Act of 1891 to make the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals final, and this court will only examine the record to see if plain
error has been committed; and if that. is not apparent, it will, as in
this case, affirm the judgment.
169 Fed. Rep. 372, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

M1r. John D. Black, with whom Mr. John Barton Payne
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James C. McShane, for defendant in Vror, submitted.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the

opinion of the

court.
This action to recover for persdhal injuries begun in a

CHICAGO JUNCTION RY. CO. v. KING.
222 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

state court, was removed to a Circuit. Court and there
decided for the plaintiff. To obtain a reversal of a judgment affirming, the case is here upon an assumption that
a constitutional question is involved which gives jurisdiction. It is admitted that such question, that is, the repugnancy of the Safety Appliance Law to the Constitution, is now not open to controversy because of a recent
decision. Southern Railway Co. v. United States, ante,
p. 20. Yet, as the case is here, other errors relied upon,
it is urged, must be decided. But even conceding that
the constitutional question was not wholly frivolous
when first advanced, as it arose only at the trial, it does
not give jurisdiction. Macfadden v* United States, 213
,U. S. 288. But this is negligible, since by the pleadings
the cause of action was based on a statute of the United
States-the Safety Appliance Law-which gi-es jurisdiction. Macfadden v. United States, supra. The damage
thus arose: After cutting out some cars from an interstate
freight train at the Union Stock Yards in Chicago, the
train could not be re-coupled because of a broken knuckle
on the coupler of one of the cars. The plaintiff, a switchman, secured a new knuckle and going between the cars
to put it in place of the broken one, was crushed by a
backward movement of the train, which brought theuncoupled cars together. The movement was ordered
by the train conductor with the purpose of shoving the
train back several city blocks to where it was proposed torepair the co.pler.
Coming to consider the contentions, although they seemingly involve many propositions, they. all are reducible
to the assertion that the plaintiff was so clearly guilty of
contributory negligence, in one aspect or the other) that
it was the duty of the court to instruct a verdict for the defendant. Indeed, this is expressly stated in the argument
to be the result of all the propositions except two relating
to an instruction given and to one refused. But these

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

two instructions when rightly considered are of the same
character, as they also rest ultimately upon the contention that the proof on particular subjects was such as to
necessitate a binding instruction for the railway company.
The following, therefore, as to all the contentions, is
clearly apparent: First. That while they may in a general
sense involve the Safety Appliance Law, none of them
directly invoked the interpretation of that law. Second.
That while the contentions, from an ultimate point of
view, present a question of law-that is, was there any
substantial evidence to go to the jury?-in their primary
aspect they call for an examination of the entire evidence
to determine whether it had any substantial tendency to
establish the right of the plaintiff to recover. Third.
That although we have jurisdiction to review because
the cause of action as stated in the pleadings rested upon
the Safety Appliance Law, the questions now presented,
in a broad sense, are of a character which ordinarily it was
the purpose of the Judiciary Act of 1891 to submit to
the final jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Under the conditions just stated, we do not think we are
called upon to scrutinize the whole record for the purpose
of discovering whether it may not be possible, by a minute
analysis of the evidence, to draw therefrom inferences
which may possibly conflict with the conclusion of the
courts below as to the tendencies of the proof. We are
of this opinion because, in this and cases like it, that is,
in cases where the conditions are in all respects identical
with those here presented, we think our whole duty will
be performed by giving to the record such examination and
consideration as may be necessary to enable us to determine whether plain error was committed by the court
below in any of the particulars complained of. In the
discharge of such duty in this case, in view of the full
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and in the light
of the adequate examination which we have made of the

MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

record, as we find nothing giving rise to a clear convic-

tion on our part that error has resulted from the action of
the courts below, it follows that the judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals must be and it is affirmed.
Affrmed.

MUTUAL LOAN COMPANY v. MARTELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 29.

Submitted October 27, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

The validity of police regulations depends upon the circumstances of
each case, whether arbitrary or reasonable and whether really designed to accomplish a legitimate public purpose. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 591.
The power of the State extends to s6 dealing with conditions existing
in the State as to bring out of them the greatest welfare of its people.
Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311.
Police power is but another name for the power of government; it is
subject only to constitutional limitations which allow a comprehensive range of judgment, and it is the province of the State to adopt
by its legislature such policy as it deems best.
Legislation cannot be judged by theoretical standards but must be
tested by the concrete conditions inducing it.
A State may, as a police regulation, make assignments of future wages
invalid except under conditions that will properly restrict extravagance and improvidence of wage-earneis.
A State may, under conditions justifying it, prescribe that an assignment by a married man of wages to be earned by him in future shall
be invalid unless consented to by his wife.
This court recognizes the propriety of deferring to tribunals on the
spot and will not oppose its notions of necessity to legislation
adopted to accomplish a legitimate public purpose. Laurel Hill
Cemetery v. San Francisco,216 U. S. 358.
A State has power to prescribe the form and manner of execution and
VOL. CCXXI-] 5

