UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITY &c. R. R. 237
222 U. S.

Counsel for Appellants.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. MASON
CITY AND FORT DODGE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO& THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
'No. 31. 'Argued November 2, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.
The object of the provisions in acts of July 25, 1866, 14 Stat. 244,
c. 246, and of February 24, 1871, 16 Stat. 430, c. 67, for the con9truction" of. railway bridges across the Mississippi and Missouri
rivers was that the trains of all rhilroads terminating at the rivers
should be allowed to cross on reasonable terms, and for the more
perfect cbnnection of railroads running to the bridges on either side
of the river; and, the statutes being construed in that light, the approaches on both sides of the river'must be regarded as parts of the
structures.
A railroad bridge can be of no use to the public unless united with the
necessary appurtenances for public accommodation.
A distance of four miles in the scheme of the Union Pacific Railroad
may be reasonably within the expression "at or near."
The decree of the Circuit Court affirmed by this court in 199 U..S.
160, gave to the Mason City and Fort Dodge R. R. Company the
right to cross the Union Pacific bridge over the Missquri river and
this included the use of main and passing tracks over and approaching the bridge t6 the extent necessary to constituie a continuous
line from the terminus at Council Bluffs to the point at Omaha
mentioned therein, but the decree did not give the Mason City Road
any rights to use other tracks and terminal facilities of the Union
Pacific Railroad.
165 Fed. Rep. 844, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the .construction of a decree
of the Circuit Court in regard to the joint use of railroad
tracks between Omaha and Council Bluffs, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Maxwel Evars, with whom Mr. N. H. Loomis
was on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opihion of the Court.

222 U. S.

Mr. John Barton Payne for appellee.
MR. JusTcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is whether the decree of the
United States Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska,
rendered in a suit brought by appellee against the Union
Pacific Railroad Company in 1903, which adjudged to
appellee and to its lessee, the Chicago Great Western Railway Company, the equal and joint use of the main and
passing tracks of the Union Pacific, means the use of such
tracks in connection with the bridge of that company over
the Missouri river between Omaha and Council Bluffs,
or the tracks independently of such use, or, in other
words, a general use of the tracks for business having no
connection with the bridge or use of it, or, to be more
specific and to bring forward the particular .use claimed,
whether, as facilities for elevators established by appellee
in Omaha "and generally for a grain terminal," or as shall
be necessary or convenient in its business as a common
carrier, it may operate its own motive power and use
the tracks of the Union Pacific to deliver cars to the
Chicago, Rock Island & -Pacific Railroad, which has
connection with the tracks of the Union Pacific. The appellee contends that such right is "given by the decree.
The appellants assert that the Union Pacific alone has
the right to deliver cars to appellee's property or take
.them from it to connecting carriers, as it does, it is contended, for all other railroads, according to contracts
which have obtained for many years.
The Circuit Court decided that the decree gave the use,
contended for by the appellee, and adjudged appellants
guilty, of contempt for obstructing such use. The decision was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 165
Fcd. Rep. 844.

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITX &c. R. R. 239
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The decree adjudged that appellee and its lessee, the
Chicago Great Western Railway Company, were "admitted into the full, equal and joint use of the main and
passing tracks of the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
now located and established, or which may hereafter be
located and established, from the eastern terminus of said
tracks in Council Bluffs, in the State of Iowa, to a connection with the Union Stock Yards Railroad and the other
railroads connecting with the Union Pacific Railroad at
South Omaha, in the State of Nebraska, including the
bridge over which said tracks extend across the Missouri
River between the cities of Council Bluffs, Iowa, and
Omaha, Nebraska; also the connection withr and the
tracks pertaining thereto, of the general passenger station
of the said Union Pacific Railroad in Omaha, and said
passenger statioih and all tracks and facilities connected
therewith; also *aconnection with the side or spur tracks
leading from the main line to the lower grade of the sidings and spur tracks in Omaha, and such extensions as
may be hereafter made; also a connection with the side
tracks in Omaha on which t6 receive from and deliver
to said Union Pacific Railroad Company freight which
may be handled through the warehouses, or may be
switched by the said Union Pacific Railroad Company;
also the connections with the Union Stock Yards tracks in
South Omaha, and with the tracks of all other railway companies which now or may hereafter- connect at or near
South Omaha, with the tracks of the Union Pacific Railroad Company hereinbefore described, each and all; to the
same extent and upon the same -terms and conditions
stated in the contracts between the Union Pacific Railroad
Company and the Chicago & Northwestern Railway Com•pany, the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company, and the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway
Company, as appears by the contracts-in evidence in thii
case, and the depot contr ct, and the supplemental con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

tract between the same parties, being Exhibits 6 and 7, attached to the bill of complaint herein, without preference
or discrimination."
It is manifest that the rights of appellee and its lessee
company which were adjudged by the decree are measured
by the rights of the other railroads mentioned in the decree,
and what they were are defined in certgin cases in which
-they came up for consideration.
The- first of the cases was Union Pacific Railway Co.
v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co., 163 U. S.
564. It was brought by the Chicago, Rock Island &Pacific
Railway Company against the Union Pacific Railroad
Company to compel specific performance of a contract
in regard to the use of the tracks of the latter. The following is a summary of the facts: The Union Pacific Company controlled and -operated more than five thousand
miles of railroad, and, among others, a main line extending from Council Bluffs, Iowa, by way of Omaha
and Valley Station, Nebraska, to Ogden, Utah, a distance
of about eleven hundred miles, and other roads not necessary to mention.
The Rock Island Company owned-:and operated a line
of railway extending from Chicago, by way of Davenport,
Iowa, to St. Joseph, Missouri, and thence, through certain
points, to Colorado Springs and Denver. It also operated
other lines, amounting in the aggregate to more than three
thousand miles. The St. Paul Company was operating
more than six thousand miles of railroad, and one of its
lines extended from Chicago to Council Bluffs.
The Rock Island Company determined to connect its
lines from Chicago to Council Bluffs with its'southerly
line to Colorado Springs by constructing a bridge across
the Missouri river at Council Bluffs and a railroad from
that terminus, by way of Omaha and South Omaha and
other points, thereby shortening its .line from Chicago
to Denv'er. The St. Paul Company joined in the under-

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITY &c. R. R. 241
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taking in order to extend its line from Council Bluffs
on to Omaha and South Omaha. The two conmpanies, to
execute their purpose, caused a corporation to be created
under the laws of Iowa, with power to build a bridge
across the river at Omaha, Congress granting to the corporation the necessary franchise. Act of June 12, 1884,
23 Stat. 43, c. 82. Pending the making of the surveys and
other preparations, the Union Pacific Company proposed
to the companies to make with them a trackage arrangement by which they could use the bridge and tracks of the
Union Pacific Company between Council Bluffs and
South Omaha for their terminal facilities in Omaha and
South Omaha, and the continuous line desired by the Rock
Island Company could be completed. The proposal was
accepted and the contracts subsequently drawn. The pre*amble to the Rock Island Company contract recited that
that company had become a domestic 'corporation of
Nebraska, and proposed to extend its railway from its terminus at Council Bluffs to a connection with its leased line,
the Chicago, Kansas A Nebraska Railway, at the city of
Beatrice; that the parties to the contract believed that the
interests of all would be promoted by using for a part
of said extension the main tracks of the Union Pacific
Railway Company in the cities of Council Bluffs and
Omaha, the bridge over the Missouri river and portions
of certain other road§ not necessary to mention.
The specific and material provision was as follows, the
italics being ours:, "The Pacific Company hereby lets the
Rock Island Company.into the full, equal and joint possession and use of its main and passing tracks, now located
and established, or which may be hereafter located and
established, between the terminus of such tracks in the
city of Council Bluffs, in the State of Iowa, and a line
drawn at a right angle across said tracks within one and
one half (1y) miles southerly from the present passenger
-station of South Omaha, in the State of Nebraska, includVoL. ccxxn-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

ing the bridge on which said tracks extend across the
Missouri River, between said cities of Council Bluffs and
Omaha; connections with Union Depot tracks in Omaha,
the side or spur track leading from its main tracks to the
lower grade of the Pacific Company's sidings and spur
tracks in Omaha, and such extensions thereof as may be
hereafter made; side tracks in Omaha on which to receive
from and deliver to the Rock Island Company freight
that may be handled through the warehouses, or switched
by the Pacific Company; the connections with the Union
Stock Yards tracks in South Omaha, and conveniently
located grounds in South Omaha, on which- the Rock
Island Company may construct, maintain and exclusively
use a track or tracks, aggregating three thousand (3,000)
feet in length, for the storage of cars and other purposes,
for the term of nine hundred and ninety-nine (999) years."
The consideration is expressed, and it is provided "that
the Pacific Company lets the Rock Island Company into
the full, joint and equal possession and use of its tracks,
stations and appurtenances along the line of the railway
of the Republican Valley Company," the Pacific Company
reserving the right to admit any other company to the
joint use and possession of the same tracks and property
upon substantially the same terms.
Performance of the contract was entered into. Subsequently a change of management of the Pacific Company
took place, and that company forcibly prevented the Rock
Island Company and the St. Paul Company from using
the tracks at Omaha, which they were entitled to use under
the contracts, and absolutely refused to perform the contracts.
Suit wa then brought by those companies to compel
specific performance of the contracts, and the Pacific
Company set up as a defense that the contracts were
ultra-vires, and that the use of its road, as claimed, would
deprive it of the means granted to it by the act of Congress,

* UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITY &c. R. R. 243
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of earning money with which to maintain its corporate
existence, perform -the duties of a common carrier and
meet the demands'bf the Government. The defenses
were not sustained, and it was decreed that the contract
was "the valid obligation of the parties thereto, and should
be performed in good faith by each of them;" that it secured the several rights embraced therein, all of which were
specifically set forthi subject to certain limitations which
need not be given. 47 Fed. Rep. 15. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 51 Fed. Rep. 309.
The case in this court was considered on the appeal of
the Rock Island Company, the court saying that if the
decree in favor of that company be affirmed a like result
must follow in the case of the St. Paul Company, and
stated the questions to be (p. 580) "whether these contracts are within the corporate powers of the parties;
were duly'authorized as respects the Union Pacific Railway Company; were such contracts as a court of equity
can specifically enforce; and were properly enforced on the
merits." More specifically, it was said (p. 581) that it
could be remarked "in the outset that the main contention of the Pacific Company concerns the trgcks between
Council Bluffs and South Omaha, including the bridge."
This, then, we must accept as the subject of the controversy to which the court addressed itself and by which the
decision must be explained.
It was decided that the contracts were not ultra vires,
the court basing its decision upon the general powers of
the Pacific Company in relation to the subject-matter
andits duties as a common carrier, and decided that there
was no reasonable ground upon which it could "be held
invalid as an unlawful assumption of power." But the
*court, going beyond such general operation and relation,
said: (p. 585) "But the determination of the existence of
the power to grant running rights in this instance does
not rest on these considerations," and based its decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

as well upon the provisions of the Pacific Railroad acts
relating to the bridge over the Missouri river and its construction and operation, holding that those acts "imposed
on the Pacific Company the duty of permitting the Rock
.Island Company to run its engines, cars and trains over
the bridge and tracks between Council Bluffs and Omaha."
And the court said (p. 586) "that South Omaha was included.",
These propositions were announced: The original charter
of 1862 required the construction of the Pacific road from
the east bank of the river, and so impliedly authorized
the company to bridge it. The implication was made
express by the amendatory act of 1864; and the company given authority "to construct a bridge. over said
Missouri river." The bridge was for the company's road,
and no provision was made for other roads, nor were
special means provided for the construction of the bridge.
By 1871, several roads had been built from the East to
Council Bluffs, and others were in process of construction
in Nebraska, with Omaha as their terminus. On February 24 of that year the Omaha Bridge Act was passed
(February 24, 1871, 16 Stat. 430, c. 67), in which it was
provided that "for the more perfect connection of any
railr ads that are or shall be constructed to the Missouri
river, at or near Council Bluffs, Iowa, and Omaha, Nebraska," the company was authorized to issue bonds not
exceeding two and one-half million dollars and to "secure
the same by mortgage on the bridge and approaches and
appurtenances, as it may deem needful to construct and
maintain its bridge over said river, and the tracks and
depots required to perfect the same, as now authorized
by law of Congress."

The act further provided that for the use and protection
of the bridge and property the company should be governed and limited by the act of Congress of July 25, 1866,
14 Stat. 244, c. 246, in regard to the construction of cer-

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITY &c. R. R. 245
222 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

tain bridges and to establish them as post roads. Nine
bridges were authorized by that act\ to be constructed,
eight over the Mississippi river and one over the Missouri
river, and it was provided in § 1 of the act which au-

thorized the construction of the bridge across the Mississippi at Quincy, Illinois, that when constructed the trains
of all railroads terminating .at the river should be allowed
to cross, for reasonable compensation to be made to the
ownerp of the bridge. This provision was made applicable
to the other bridges.
The court said (p. 587): "The common object of both
these acts plainly was the more perfect connection of roads
running to the bridges on either side of the river;" and
this, it was further said, was in harmony with the numerous acts .of Congress referred to in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Answering the objection that if these acts justified the
granting of the use of the bidge it did not justify the granting of the use of the tracks, the court remarked that the
authority was given to place a mortgage "on the bridge
and approaches and, appurtenances," and that it would
seem clear that the apprbaches on both sides of the river
must be regarded as a part OTthe structure. And it was
further said (p. 588): "Moreover, the act refers to 'the
tracks and depots required to perfect the same.' A railroad bridge can bb of -no use to. the public- unless united
with necessary appurtenances, such as %approaches,tracks,
depots and other facilities for the public accommodation.
And we consider Council Bluffs, Omaha and South Omaha,
under the facts, as necessarily embraced in the intention of
Congress. It is true that it appears that from the depot
to the point in South Omaha where the tracks of the companies connected, is about four miles; but the scheme of
Congress was to accomplish the more perfect connection
'at or near Council Bluffs, Iowa, and Omaha, Nebraska,'
and we think this distance reasonably within the terms

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

of the act of 1871, liberally construed, as the act should
be."
The next case which came to this court was Union
Pacific Company v. Masbn City Company, 199 U. S. 160.
The Mason City Company was complainant in the suit
L the Circuit Court, and operated a railroad having
its western terminus at Council Bluffs, and sought in
that suit to connect with and use the bridge, approaches
and tracks of the Union Pacific Company upon the same
terms and conditions as the roads which were parties to
the suit in 163 U. S., supra. It based its claim upon the
acts therein set out and considered, it havng no contract
with the Union Pacific as the other railroads had. The
Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained
its claim. 124 Fed. Rep. 409; 128 Fed. Rep. 230.
In this court, the Mason City Company contended
that its right to the use of the bridge and approaches was
determined by the decision in 163 U. S., and, further, that
if mistaken in that, it had such right under the statutes of
the United States and by the terms of the contract between
the city of Omaha and county of Douglas, with which
contract we are not concerned. To the contention the
Union Pacific replied that so much of the opinion as dealt
with thectatutory obligation was obiter dictum. It also
urged that the statutes were misconstrued, and that the
status of the present Union Pacific Company differed so
much from that of the then defendant as to make them
inapplicable.
Disposing of the contention that the reference to the
statutory obligation of the Union Pacific was obiter, the
court said (p. 165):
"While the claim of the plaintiffs in that case was
founded directly upon contracts, yet if there were a statutory duty to let them into the joint use' of the bridge
and its approaches that was enough to sustain a decree
in their favor, and the contracts might-be regarded as

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITY &c. R. R. 247
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

simply relieving -the court of the work of settling minor
matters, such as method of use, compensation therefor, and
matter of control. Indeed, the alleged invalidity of the
contracts was rested largely on the scope of the statutes,
and the duties to the Government and the public imposed
thereby on the railroad company."
To the contention that the statutes had been misgonstrued, the court replied (p. 166) that, "We see no reason
to question the conclusion announced in the former opinion."- The other contentions were -also held untenable.
The decree against the Union Pacific was affirmed, with
some minor reservations which it is unnecessary to notice.
It was this decree that.the Union Pacific Company was,
in the present case, adjudged guilty of contempt for violating. The decree We have already set out.
The parties- are in sharp controversy as to its meaning,
but, necessarily, whatever ambiguity arises fromA some of
its parts, its extent must be determined by what preceded
it and what- it' was intended to execute-in other words,
that the bridge act of 1871 is the measure of the rights
given by decree in connection with the act of 1866 providing for a bridge across the'Mississippi River at Quincy,
Illinois, and other bridges. 14 Stat. 244.. The latter
act, as we have seen, provided that "all trains of all roads
terminating at said river at or opposite said point shall
be allowed to cross said bridge for reasonable compensation." And, as we have also seen, the act of 187-1 was
passed "for the more perfect connection of any railroads
that are or shall be constructed to the Missouri River at
or near Council Bluffs, Iowa, and Omaha, Nebraska."
And the powers conferred and the use and protection of
the bridge that should be erected were "governed and
limited" by the provisions of the act of 1866. The. two,
acts, therefore, express the powers conferred and the obligations imposed on the Union Pacific Company. And
this court so construed them, saying, as we have seen,- that

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

"the common object of both these acts was the more perfect connection of roads running to the bridges on either
side of the river." A right to the "approaches and appurtenances" was giveA as necessary to the connection and to
make .it effective. It did not otherwise subject the property of the Union Pacific Company to the use of other
companies. It bridged the river-"the transportation
gap "-between Council Bluffs and Omaha, the country
east of the river and the country west of it. It did no
more. It did not intend to give to other roads a right in
the terminal of the Union Pacific Company beyond what
was necessary for. a right of passage over the "gap,"
giving the same continuity to other roads which the Union
Pacific Company had. That the act of Congress had
this object the Circuit Court of Appeals did not deny.
The court said (165 Fed. Rep. 850):
"It is true that the object of the requirement of the
acts of congress was to bridge the transportation gap and
to facilitate the transfer of cars passing between railroads
east and railroads west of the Missouri river, but this fact
did not deprive the court which was called upon to enforce
this legislation of its jurisdiction to prescribe the limits
and the terms of the use which the Pacific Company should
allow, nor of its power and duty to exercise a wide and wise
judicial discretion in fixing those limits and terms."
Of course the court had power to pass on the issues presented to it, and we might have to yield to its decision
as res judicata if its decree was as broad as asserted, but
we do not so understand its decree. It gave only what
the Chief Justice, in 163 U. S., called "running rights."
As we have already pointed out, the original charter of the
Pacific road only impliedly authorized the building of a
bridge across the river. The act of 1864 expressly authorized it, but the bridge contemplated was for the use of
the Pacific Company only. No provision was made for
other roads. The act of 1871 enlarged the powers of the

UNION PACIFIC R. R. v. MASON CITY &c. R. R. 249
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

company, giving it means to construct the bridge,, but
at the same time put the obligation on the company of
permitting its use by-other roads, as we have seen, "indicating [we quote from 163 U. S. 587] a settled policy'that
all structures of this character' should allow connecting
roads to cross them with. their cars, trains and engines."
And this -was the right which was given over the tracks,
such right'over the tracks being necessary to the right over
the bridge. Id. 587, 588. The right to cross them, bridge
and tracks, it will be observed, and thereby provide "for
the more perfect connection of the roads east of the river
With those west of it." That this was the purpose is expressed in many places in the opinion. The bridge was
decided to be the principal 9nd dominating thing, to which
the rights in the tracks were accessory and only given as
appurtenant and necessary as a means to avail of its use.
The Mason City Company would upset this prder and
make paramount the use of the tracks; indeed, make
the use of the tracks independent of any use of the bridge,
though the only rights it possesses are given by the act
authorizing the construction of the bridge. It was because
its railroad connected with the Union Pacific at Council
Bluffs that it was enabled to invoke the provisions of that
act. It now, claims a right on the west side of the river
to the use of tracks in connection with what it terms "a
grain terminal" in Omaha, for which purpose it has purchased certain real estate. And it represents "that, in
order to provide the necessary elevators and other.special
facilities, it has purchased other real estate, the title to
which it has caused to be conveyed to the Omaha Grain
Terminals, a corporation of the State of Nebraska, every
share of the capital stock of said corporation being owned
by" it. It sets forth, in detail, length of tracks and their
connection with those of the Union Pacific, and the number and capacity of the elevators which are necessary
to accommodate "the grain business naturally tributary

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U.S.

to the city ofOmaha." It also sets forth that, as a carrier
of live stock and live stock products, it must have facilities
"in-close proximity to the South Omaha stock yards." We'
quote these averments to illustrate the extent of the rights
claimed. It is to. accommodate the business thus described and its business as a common carrier that the
Mason City Company asserts the right to use the tracks of
the Union Pacific Company which connect with the tracks
of other companies-specifically, in this case, with the
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company. It
was a prevention of the use of the latter tracks in order
to deliver a car of stucco hauled by an engine of the Mason
City Company to the Rock Island Company that was
held to contemn the decree. If the Mason City Company
had the right to deliver that car it had the right to deliver
all cars, and the court so decreed, finding that there was a
physical connection between the tracks of the Rock Island
and the main tracks of the Union Pacific at South Omaha,
and that by the terms of the decree the Mason City Company had "the right to run its engines, cars or trains"
over such tracks, and from them "over and through the
said connection on to the tracks of the Union Pacific
Company at South Omaha."
The court, therefore, decided that the decree authorized the use of the Union Pacific track for local switching
purposes and enjoined the prevention of such use. As
we have pointed out, we do not think the decree justified
the conclusion of the court. The rights asserted transcend
anything given by the bridge act. The tracks of the Union
Pacific Company, as urged by its counsel, are its property,
and the supervision and control thereof cannot be taken
from it and given to its connections except to the extent
expressed in the bridge act, which gave, as we have seen,
the use of the bridge and of the main and passing tracks
as necessary approaches to the bridge. And it is of special
significance that none of the "tenant companies" (parties

ALUMINUM CO. v. RAMSEY.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

in 163 U. S.) ever claimed such right except in one attempt
by the Rock Island, after these proceedings to punish the
Union Pacific officers for contempt.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the decree admitted
appellee to the use of the "main and passing tracks" of
the Union Pacific Company from. their eastern terminus
at Council Bluffs, -only to a physical connection with the

roads and at the places mentioned therein, including the
bridge over which the tracks extend across the Missouri
river between Council Bluffs and Omaha. And that
such use was all that was necessary to constitute the road's
continuous lines from east to west or from west to east.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the
order of the Circuit Court adjudging the appellants
guilty of contempt of the decree entered August 12, 1903,
is reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA v. RAMSEY.
ERROR TO THE STPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 56.

Submitted November 8, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

Although a statute increasing the liability of corporations may, as to
corporations of the State, be an exercise of the reserved power to
alter, amend and repeal, the application of that principle as to
foreign' corporations depends on many considerations and involves
Federal questions.
Whether or not a classification merely between all corporations and
partnerships and individuals offends the equal protection clause, a
classification of corporations operating railroads and individuals
does not offend that provision of the Constitution.
*One within a distinct class which is properly subject to classification
carwot question the constitutionality of the classification on the

