OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

VOGT v. GRAFF AND VOGT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 73. Argued November 17, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
The rule in Shelley's case is a rule of property in the District of Columbia, and the question for this court to determine is not whether
it has or has not a legal foundation, or is or is not a useful rule of
property, but whether it applies to the case in controversy.
Where the testator directs that on the sale of his real estate the proceeds be divided and paid over to his heirs at once, except the share
of a specified heir which shall be paid to trustees to be by them in-'
vested, the income thereon to be paid to such heir, the principal to.
be paid to his heirs after his death, the application of the rule in
Shelley's case would destroy the radical distinctions intended by the
testator, and the rule does not-apply.
Notwithstanding the peremptory force of the rule in Shelley's case,
where there are explanatory and qualifying expressions showing a
clear intention of the testator to the contrary, the rule must yield
and the intention prevail. Daniel v. Whartenby, 17 Wall. 639.
A condition of the rule in Shelley's case is that the particular estate
and the estate in remainder must be of the same quality, both legal
or both equitable, and where the former is equitable and thelatter
is legal, the rule does not apply and the two estates do not merge.
Qure: Whether in the case at bar the estate in reilainder is legal or
,equitable.
Quwre: Whether the rule in Shelley's case is applicabli to personal
property.
33 App. D. C. 356, affirmed.

TH facts, which involve the construction of a will
madeby a resident of the District of Columbia, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Gittings, with whom Mr. Justin Morrill
Chamberlin was on the brief, for appellant:
Until the court below rendered the decision in this

VOGT v. GRAFF.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

case, it was conceded that the "Rule in Shelley's Case"
was applicable to personal property in this jurisdiction.
Garthv. Baldwin, 1755; 2 Vesey Sr., Ch.Rep. 646. Home
v. Lyeth, 4 Harris and Johnson, 435, holds this case was
binding authority, and it has ever since been followed
in the Maryland courts. See also Warner v. Sprigg, 62
Maryland, 14, and Hughes v. Nicklas, 70 Maryland, 482;.
Engle v. Mades, 25 Wash. Laiv Rep. 220; Simms v. Georgetown College, 1 App. D. C. 79, 80.
If the rule has any application to personal property at
all, it has the same force and effect as when applied to real
estate. If applied by analogy, it must be applied, of course,
under the same circumstances and conditions; consequently it is a rule of law and not a rule of construction.
Being a rule of law, it is inflexible and will necessarily
override any-intention of a testator to the contrary in
those cases where it is applicable. Home v. Lyeth, supra.
There may-be a class of cases involving executory trusts
where courts have not applied the rule. But in the-case at
bar, by no possible torture of the testator's language can
it be construed to read as an executory trust. Neves v.
Scott, 9 How. 211; 2 Underhill on Wills.
A mere direction to convey the legal title or to pay over
a fund where the limitations of the trust are complete,
does not alone make a trust executory. Rowan v. Chase,
94 U. S. 818; Cushing v. Blake, 30 N. J. Eq. 689, 670;
Edgertonv.Lord Brownlaw, 4 H. L. C. 1210. The "Rulein
Shelley's Case" must be applied in a court of equity to the
same extent as in courts of law, when the trust estate is
executed. Preston on Estates, 362; Ferne on Remainders,
157; Bale v. Coleman, 1 P. Williams, 142; Simms v. Georgetown College; supra.
The very moment we attempt to treat the "Rule in
Shelley's Case" as subservient to a testator's intention, we
absolutely efface and obliterate it as a rule of law, and
turn it into a mere rule of construction. If this can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

done when the subject-matter is personalty, what analogy
is there in its application to real estate? None.
For authority for its decision the court below cites
a case long since overruled on every point upon which it.
was decided, viz.: Bacon's Appeal, 57 Pa. St. 504, 514.
See Grimes v. Shirk, 169 Pa. St. 174, 181; McCannv. Berkley, 204 Pa. St. 214; Shopley v. Diehl, 203 Pa. St. 566, 569.
The rule of construction is that if technical words are
used they must be given their primary legal meaning, unless there is something on the face of the will that shows
not only that they were not so used by the testator, but
will clearly show in what sense they were used. Daniel v.
Whartenby, 17 Wall. 643; Van Grutten v. Foxwell, reported
in Appeal Cases, L. Rept. (1897), 658, 684.
Although the Chief Justice of the court below quotes
the rule of construction laid down by this court in Daniel
v. Whartenby, supra, he immediately thereafter ignores it.
There are no inconsistent words in that paragraph
of the devise in question, and there is a total absence of
any qualifying words in that or any other paragraph which
shows or tends in any manner to show that the testator
used the word "heirs" in the sense of "children."
The word "heirs" may or may not be appropriate; this
would entirely depend upon the sense in which the testator used it. From the context'.of the will there is absolutely no ground for a court saying that the word "heirs"
was not used by the testator in its primary technical sense.
That the testator was a layman does not appear anywhere in the record, or whether he was learned in the law,
as the record is silent upon that point, unless it be the will
itself, which shows beyond questiofA that it was prepared.
by one skilled in legal lore, and unquestionably knew the
legal difference between the words "heirs" and "children."
When we find him using the word "heirs" as a designation of those who were to take the appellant's share after
death, it can hardly be said that he meant to use the word

VOGT v. GRAFF.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellant. ,

"heirs" in any other sense than that in which he had previously used it: that is, its primary legal sense-those
who would take real estate if plaintiff should.die intestate.
If the court below is right and the word "heirs" was
construed to mean those who would take under the statute of distribution-and for instance, suppose the infant
Mathilda should die before her father-the widow of the
testator, appellant's mother, would then take appellant's
entire share, and his brothers and sister, who were the testator's "heirs," would be entirely cut off. Could this have
been the testator's intention? Hardly so. That it was the
testator's intention that appellant should have only a life
estate in the fund may be perfectly true, but that would
not in any manner alter the sense in which the word
"heirs" was used.
It might be conceded that in 99 out of 100 cases where
the "R ule in Shelley's Case" has been applied to a will, the
testator's intention has been that the ancestors should
take only a life estate. The inquiry has always been,
What was his intention as to the remainder? Did he use
the word "heirs" as a word of -limitation? If not, did
he use it in some other sense, and if he did, in what sense
did he use it? That is the sole inquiry, and for that reason
the fact that a testator intended to give the ancestor only
a life estate can in nio way throw light upon his intention
or show what he meant when using the word "heirs" as'
a designation of those who were to take a remainder.
Under the tenth paragraph of the will, the ancestor, appellant, and heirs take the same quality of estates; both
are equitable. See Hill on Trustees, 288; Perry on Trusts,
ยง 311; Denton v. Denton, 17 Maryland, 43; Warner v.
Sprigg, 62 Maryland, 14; Long v. Long, 62 Maryland, 68;
Glover v. Condell, 163 Illinois, 566; see also Garth v. Baldwin, 2 Vesey, 648; Enge v. Mades, 25 Wash. L. Rep.
229; Webb v. Webb, 1 P.Williams, 132; Robinson v. Fitzherbert, 2 Bro. Ch. Rep. 127.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

The cases do not sustain the opinion of the court below
to the effect that as the trust is expressly limited to the
life estate of Fred. H. Vogt, the remainder to the heirs
is a legal estate, and hence there can be no union of the
two estates under the "Rule in Shelley's Case." Denton v.
Denton, 17 Maryland, 407; Owens v. Crow, 62 Maryland,
491, distinguished.
Westcott v. Edmonds, 68 Pa. St. 34; Renzeihauzen v. Kaiser, 48 Pa. St. 351, and Bacon'sAppeal, 57 Pa. St. 505, oited
in appellee's brief, were all cases dealing with trusts relating to real property; neither do cases apply which are suits
brought by the heirs after the death of the ancestor, claiming that the trust has ceased, as Denton v. Denton; Owens
v. Crow, supra;Hooper v. FeIgner, 80 Maryland, 262; Long
v. Long, 62 Maryland, 33, and Lee v. O'Donnell, 95 Maryland' 538.
Mannerback'sEstate, 133 Pa. St. 342; Mercer v. Hopkins,
88 Maryland, 292, and Mercer v. Safe Deposit Co., 91
Maryland, 102, cited by appellee are not applicable, and
do not throw any light upon the case at bar.
To disregard the settled rules of interpretation, sanctioned by 4 succession of ages and by the decisions of the
most enlightened judges, under pretext that the reason
of the rule no longer exists, or that the rule itself is unrea-,
sonable, would not only prostrate the great landmarks of
property, but would introduce a latitude of construction
boundless in its range and pernicious in its consequence.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. Leon Tobriner for appellees.
MR. JusTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Bill in equity filed in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia by the children of John L. Vogt to determine
the meaning of a clause in the latter's will.

VOGT v. GRAFF.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants in the case, appellees here, were Charles
Graff and Frederick C. Gieseking, executors and trustees
named in the will, and Matilda S. Vogt, infant daughter of
one of the complainants, appellant here, Frederick H.
Vogt.
The part of the will to be construed is as follows:
"All the rest and residue of my real estate, shall, when
my youngest surviving child attains the age of 21 years
or one year thereafter in the discretion of my executors,
be sold by my executors at public auction after due
notice in the news papers of this city. The proceeds of
said sales shall be then divided among my heirs, 'share and
share alike, and paid over to them respectively at,once,
excepting the share coming to my son, Fred H. Yogt.
Said share shall be paid to Charles Graff and Frederick
C. Gieseking, as trustees, by them invested, the indome
therefrom to be paid said Fred H. Vogt, the prindipal
to be paid to his heirs after his death."
Regarding this provision as a simple composition of
English words, we should have no difficulty in deciding
that thetestator intended to give to Frederick H. Vogt a
life estate in the designated share. But it is contended
that the meaning of the testator is determined otherwise
by the rule in Shelley's case. The rule is 'thus laid down:
"Where the ancestor, by any gift or conveyance, taketh
an estate of freehold, and in the same gift or conveyance
an estate is limited, either mediately or immediately, to
his heirs in fee or in tail, the 'heirs' are words of limitation of the estate and not words of purchase." 1 Co. 104;'
Daniel v. Whartenby, 17 Wall. 639, 641; Green v. Green,
23 Wall. 486, 488.
It will be observed that under the rule by a technical
circumlocution one estate onily is created, though two
parts are expressed, a 'particular estate for life with a
remainder to the heirs of him who takes the particular estate. The rule, therefore, has been a fruitful source

OCTOBER TERM, 19,11.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

of controversy. On the one hand it has been praised
as having-a substantial foundation and necessarily expressing and enforcing essential legal distinctions in the
transfer of property; to be, indeed, the very opposite of a
technical rule and one "established through a long course
of decisions extending over a great many generations,"
and declared therefore to be a rule of substance in order
to give effect to the intention of the grantor or testator.
On the other hand, it is attacked as off ener defeating intention than executing it, being applied as an absolute
and peremptory obligation to convey or devise an estate
in fee simple even against an express declaration to the
contrary. Invective, therefore, has been employed against
it, and even ridicule; and English and American judges,
while yielding to it, have pronounced it unjust. We, however, need not enter into the field of controversy. Whether
it had a legal and substantial foundation when first pronounced or yet has, whether it is a useful rule of property or part of the debris of an ancient system having now
only the mischievous vitality of frustrating the intention
of a grantor or testator, we need not consider.
It is conceded to be a rule of property in the District
of Columbia, and we are brought to the question whether,
consistently with it, the intention which we have seen
Vogt has expressed may be executed.
The statement of the rule we have given. There are
certain conditions attached to it which give precision
to its application. One of these is that the remainder
after the particular estate must be to heirs of the whole
line of inheritable blood, designating those who are to
take from generation to generation. And they must be
heirs of him who takes the particular estate, and by devolution from him.
This is important to be observed. The heirs must
take from the first taker and not be a description of a
class taking from the testator, becoming themselves,

VOGT -v. GRAFF.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"the root of a new succession." Guthrie's Appeal, 37
Pa. St. 9. Hargrave, in his Law Tracts, states the test
to be "whether the party entailing means to build a
succession of heirs on the estate of the tenant for life."
If he does not, but intends to describe a class taking from
him, the rule does not apply. We proceed to illustrate
this.
Kemp v. Reinhard, 228 Pa. St. 143, expresses the principle, and its facts bring it into close similarity to the
case at bar. In that case the testatrix gave to her son,
Jacob E. Kemp, the use and income of seven enumerated
properties, "for and during his lifetime." Then followed
this clause: "And immediately after the decease of the
said Jacob E. Kemp, I give and devise the above-described
seven tracts or pieces of land devised to him herein for
life to his issue in fee. Should he, however, die without
leaving issue living, I give and devise the same unto my
son Pierce G. S. Kemp, his heirs and assigns in fee."
The court said (p. 147):
"Though the intention of the testatrix may have been
to give only a life estate to the appellant, if in the devise
there was a limitation of the estate to his heirs to take
by devolution from him at his death, her intention is
overridden by the rule in Shelley's case; but in every case
in which the application of that rule is involved the first
question is whether the devisor or grantor intended a
limitation of the remainder in fee or in tail as such to the
heirs of the first taker, or that there should be the root
of a new succession taking directly from the devisor or
grantor as purchasers. When the latter intention appears the rule has no place and the intention must be
given effect".
And further (p. 147):
"'It is very carefully to be noted, that in searching
for the intention of the donor or testator, the inquiry
is not whether the remainder-men, are the persons who

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

would have been heirs, had the fee been limited directly
to the ancestor. The thing to be sought for is not the
persons who are directed to take the remainder, but the
character in which the donor intended they should take.
In the very many cases in which the question has arisen,
whether the rule was applicable, the difficulty has been in'
determining whether the intention was that the remaindermen should take as heirs of the first taker, or originally
as the stock of a new inheritance.' Guthrie's Appeal, 37
Pa. 9."
Hall v. Gradwohl (1910), 113 Maryland, 293, is also somewhat similar to the case at bar, and we quote the more
readily since it is said that the rule in Shelley's case prevails in the District of Columbia because it prevailed
in the law of Maryland. After discussing the rule the
court said that "it is not a favored" one "in the law of
Maryland, although the court will never refuse to apply it
in a proper case." And it was decided that where the
particular intention of the testator is not to use the words
of inheritance in their full legal sense, but "as mere
descriptio personarum or a particular designation of individuals who were to take as purchasers at his death,"
the rule should not prevail. The will passed on made
certain bequests and devises and then provided: "The
balance of my estate to be equally divided among-my five
children or their heirs, share and share alike," with this
proviso: "That the portion to which my daughter Sarah
Gradwohl may be entitled shall be invested in some safe
stocks or other securities, the said Sarah Gradwohl to
receive the income from the same during the term of her
natural life, and at her death to be equally divided among
her children or legal heirs." The court refused to apply
the rule. To apply the rule it was said that the words
"children or legal heirs" would have to be treated as
words of limitation, that is, as "marking out the extent
and duration of her interest." This construction the

VOGT v. GRAFF.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the COQurt.

court rejected as consonant with "neither ruason, policy,
justice nor equity," and could only be supported by giving
to the words "'legal heirs,' which are superadded to the
word 'ehildren,' the arbitrary meaning placed upon them
by an artificial rule of law." The court, after an analysis
of the will, decided that it-plainly manifested a particular
intention-to use those words as mere descriptio personarum
as a particular-designation of individuals who were to take
as purchasers at the death of-the testatrix.
The conclusion of the court was based upon the special
provision of the will which directed that the portion given
to the testatrix's daughter Sarah should be invested in
some safe stocks or securities, and that Sarah should
"receive the -income from the same during the term of her
natural life," and should be at her death "equally divided
among her children or legal heirs." This language; the
court added, manifested a particular intention on the part
of the testatrik "to use the words as mere descriptio per.
In such cases, under all of the authorsonarum. .
ities, the rule in Shelley's case does not apply."
A like intention is expressed in Vogt's will. His real
estate, after satisfying particular devises, is directed to be
sold when his youngest surviving child shall attain the
age of twenty-one years. The proceeds he directs "shallbe then divided among my heirs, share and share alike,
and paid over to them, respectively, at once, except the share
coming to my son, Fred H. Vogt. Said share shall be
paid to Charles Graff and Frederick C. Gieseking, as
trustees, by them invested, the income therefrom tb be
paid to said Fred H. Vogt, the principal to be paid to his
heirs after his death." If the rule in Shelley's case be applied, it will destroy all of the distinctions -that the testator has expressed. The distinctions are radical, and
must be looked to in ascertaining his intention. And this
was done, as we have seen, in Hall v. Gradwohl, supra,
and it was done, too, we may say, in Kemp v. Reinhard,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

supra. The latter case has not the infirmity that counsel
for appellant ascribes to some of the earlier Pennsylvania;
cases of regarding the rule as one of construction, yielding
to and not overriding the intention, as, it is contended,
its unflinching and dominating character requires.
The intention of the testator, therefore, may have some
sway. We may inquire, at least, as to his intention in the
use of the word "heirs," whether as taking from him or
as taking from the life tenant. The rule "is silent until
the intention of the grantor or devisor is ascertained."
Kemp v. Reinhard, supra.
Of Vogt's intention we have no doubt. It is made clearby the distinctions to which we have adverted. To his
other children their shares are to be delivered immediately
upon the sale of the real estate. To appellant there is
nothing of his share to be delivered at all. It is to be delivered to others for him, he to receive, not the body of the
share, but only the revenue from it. He is separated from
it completely. He does not handle it or direct its investment, and after his death, th3 testator, through trustees he
has selected, directs it to be delivered to persons designated
by him, or, to use the language of the cases, described by
him as taking from him. Opposing reasoning, it is true,
might be brought forward, but this court, while asserting
and recognizing the peremptory force of the technical terms
of the rule, has said: "But if there are explanatory and
qualifying expressions, from which it appears that the import of the technical language is contrary to the clear and
plain intention of the testator, the former must yield and
the latter must prevail." Daniel v. Whartenby, supra.
Aother
..
condition of the application of the rule is that
the particular estate and the estate in remainder must be
of the same quality, both legal or both equitable. The
Court of Appeals decided that such condition did not exist
and, on that ground, as well as on that which we have discussed, held adversely to appellant. In other words, the

WILLIAMS .v. WALSH.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

court decided that the estate given to appellant was equitable and the estate devised to the daughter legal, and
that, therefore, the estates did not merge. It is admitted
that the estate taken by appellant is equitable; the contentions of the parties turn upon the character of the estate given to his daughter. We will not consider the
contentions, nor whether the rule is applicable to personal
property. We rest our decision on the ground discussed
by us.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. WALSH, SHERIFF OF CRAWFORD
COUNTY, KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 79.

Argued December 5, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912;

A classification as to time that is not arbitrary is not repugnant to the
Constitution. The Fourteenth Amendment does not forbid statutory changes to have a beginning and thus discriminate between
rights of an earlier ad later time. Sperry & Hutchinsonv. Rhodes,
220 U. S. 502.
A state police statute regulating sales, otherwise constitutional, is not
unconstitutional under the equal protection clause because it excepts from its operation sales made under existing contracts.
This court cannot take judicial knowledge of details of importations
and sales of a comm6dity even if it can take such knowledge of the
fact that such commodity is an article of interstatd commerce.
The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the function of a
writ of error, nor can it be made the means of obtaining a new trial.
The term "original package" as used in a state statute does not necessarily have the same meaning as when used in some of the decisions of this court.
A law cannot be declared invalid at the instance of one not affected
by it.
An article, such as powder, which is dangerous to handle in proportion
to the quantity handled, is properly subject to police regulation in

