VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged the defendant. The Goveimment excepted and
brought the case to this'court. It now must be regarded
as established that "it is not essential to charge or prove an
actual financial or property loss to make a case under the
statute." The section covers this case. Haas v. Henkel,
216 U. S. 462, 480; Curley v. United States, 130 Fed. Rep.
1; United States v. Bunting, 82 Fed. Rep. 883.
Judgment reversed.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 3. Original. Motion to proceed with the further hearing and determination of the case. Submitted October 10, 1911.-Motion overruled October 30, 1911.

Even if the question in litigation is important and should be disposed
of without undue delay, a State cannot be expected to move with
the celerity of an individual; a motion made in this case by complainant that the court proceed to determine all questions left open
by the decision in 220 U. S. 1, denied without prejudice.
The conference suggested by this court, 220 U. S. 36, is one in the
cansie to settle the decree and not to effect an independent dompromise out of court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Williams, Attorney General of the
State of Virginia, for the complainant in support of the
motion.
Mr. W. G. Conley/ Attorney General of the State of
West Virginia, for tlhe defendant in reponse to motion.
MR.JUSTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion on behalf of the Commonwealth of
Virginia that thecourt proceed to determine all q-tstions
vob. ccxxii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1911. '
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

left open by the decision of March 6, 1911. 220 U. S. 1.
The grounds of the motion are these: On April 20, 1911,
the Virginia Debt Commission wrote to the Governor of
West Virginia, referring to the suggestion of a conference
between the parties in the decision, and requested that
he would take steps that would lead to such a conference
at an early date. At that time the Governor of West
Virginia had called an extra session of the Legislature
upon another matter. The constitution forbad the Legislature, when so convened, entering upon any business
except that stated in the call, but as there were twentysix days between the call and the session that followed it,
there wag tinie for the Governor to issue a further proclamation on the subject of the debt. The Governor in his
message to the Legislature referred to the matter, and put,
as questions to be considered, whether the appointment of
the Virginia Debt Commirion.was enough to require West
Virginia now 'to take the initiative,' and whether a Commission should be appointed to meet the Virginia Commission. He also stated that if, without formal action of
three-fifths of the body.undef the Constitution, a majority
should express to him the opinion that the Legislature
ought to be called into extraordinary session to consider
the matter, he should deem it sufficient reason for a call.
But it seems that he did not use his power of his own
motion orreceive such an expression as induced him to
use it, and the Legislature does not meet in regular session
until January, 1913. The Commonwealth of Virginia
concludes from these facts that there is no likelihood of
a conference with any satisfactory results.
The Attorney General of West Virginia answered that
the members of the Legislature convened in May, 1911,
were elected before this cause had been argued and under
conditions that left them uncertain as to the wishes of
their constituents; that the Governor was of opinion that
he could not constitutionally amend his proclamation so

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to embody consideration of the debt, and that there is
no one in West Virginia except the Legislature that has
power to deal with the matter. He then suggested a
doubt whether the Virginia Debt Commission was empowered to deal with the case in its present phase, in view
of the provision-in the Resolution creating it that it should
not negotiate except Upon the basis that Virginia is bound
only for the two-thirds of the debt that she had
provided
for, and concluded that this court ought not to act before the West Virginia Legislature at its next regular session can consider the case in the spirit anticipated by the
opinion of the court.
With regard to the doubf implied by the Governor of
West Virginia whether it now is incumbent upon that
State to take the initiative, and that suggested by its
Attorney General whether the Virginia Debt Commission has the necessary power, we are of opinion that neither
of them furnishes a just ground for delay. The conference
suggested by the cohrt is a conference in the cause. The
body that directed the -institution of the suit has taken
the proper step on behalf of the plaintiff, and it is for the
defendant to say whether it will leave the court to enter a
decree irrespective of its assent or will try to reach a
result that the court will accept. The conference is not
for an independent compromise out of court, but an attempt to settle a decree. The provision as to negotiations,
in the Virginia Resolution preceding the statute authorizing this suit, refers, we presume, to a settlement out of
court and has nothing to do with the conduct of the cause.
If the parties in charge of the suit consent, this court is
not likely to inquire very curiously into questions of power,
if, on its part, it is satisfied that they have consented to
a proper decree.
A question like the present shduld be disposed of without
undue delay. But a State cannot be expected to move
with the celerity of a private business man; it is enough if

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

it proceeds, in the language of the English Chancery, with
all deliberate speed. Assuming, as we do, that the Attorney General is correct in saying that only the Legislature of the defendant State can act, we are of opinion that
the time has not come for granting the present motion.
If the authorities of West Virginia see fit to await the
regular session of the Legislature, that fact is not sufficient
to prove that when the voice of the State is heard it will
proclaim unwillingness to make a rational effort for peace.
Motion overruled without prejudice.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 28.

Argued March 9, 10, 1911-Decided October 30, 1911.

The Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196,
as amended March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, embraces all locomotives, cars and similar vehicles used on -any railway that is a
highway of interstate commerce, and is not confined ex-clusively to
vehicles engaged in such commerce.
The power of Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution is plenary and competent to protect persons and property
moving in interstate commerce from all danger, no matter what the
source may be; to that end, Congress may require all vehicles moving
on highways of interstate commerce to be so equipped as to avoid
danger to persons and property moving in interstate commerce.
,ks between opposing views in regard to the construction of a statutc
the court in this case accepts the one in accord with the manifest
purpose of Congress.
It is of common knowledge that interstate and intrastate commerce
are commingled in transportation over highways of interstate commerce, that trains and cars on the same railroad, whether engaged

