FITZ GERALD v. THOMPSON.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

rates were too low to be just and reasonable, complainants
[knill men] cannot urge their loss as a ground for maintaining them; if the old rates were just and reasonable, the
defendants caninot justify the advance on the ground of
the prosperity of the lumber business."
Considering the case as a whole, we cannot say that the
order was made because of the effect of the advance on
the lumber industry; nor because of a mistake of law as to
presumptions arising from the long continuance of the
low rate, when the carrier was earning dividends; nor that
there was no evidence to support the finding. If so, the
Commission acted within its power and, in view of the
statute, its lawful orders cannot be enjoined. The decree,
therefore, must be
Reversed.

FITZ GERALD v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 849.

Submitted December 18, 1911.-Decided January 15, 1912.

Where the record plainly shows that to convert a party defendant
into' a party plaintiff would be wholly inconsistent with the relief
which it is the object of the suit to obtain, the court will not realign such defendant as a plaintiff so as to enable another defendant
to ren'iove the ease to the Federal court.
Where, as in this case, the plaintiffs charge one of the defendants with
repudiation of obligations and ask his removal as trustee, the claim
made at the instance of a co-defendant seeking to remove the case,
that he should be realigned as a party plaintiff, is manifestly frivolous.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM. 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

Mr. Samuel Untermyer, with whom Mr. William X.
Sturgis and Mr. Irwin' Untermyer were on the brief, in
'support of tie motion.
Mr. Willidm A. Stone, with whom Mr. Michael J. Ryan
Ad Mr. James Gay Gordon were on the brief, in opposition
thereto.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court. By
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

The objeet of this suit was to enforce a trust created by
the plaintiff in error for the benefit of his wife and three
minoi children,'to declare a -lien on certain p.roperty dedicated to ihe purposes of the trust, for the removal of two
trustees, etc.. osiah V. Thompson, one of the trustees,
was a plaintiff, and joined with him were the- wife and
minor children of Fitz Gerald, the latter represented by
their guardian dd litem. The remaining trustees were
made defendants, individually and in their capacity as
trustee and as partners..
All- the -plaintiffs except the minor children were citizens
of Pennsylvania, The minor children were aliens and resided in Ireland. Lenhart, one of the defendants, was a citizen of Pennsylvania, while Fitz Gerald, his co-defendant,
was an alien and a British subject. Fitz Gerald applied
to remove to the 11nited States couri on the ground that
on properly aligning the parties to the controversy, his
co-defendant Lenhart was -a plaintiff,.and thai as the residence of the guardian ad litem was controlling so far as
"thie interest of the minors was concerned, the controversy
was one between citizens of Pennsylvania on the one hand
and Fitz -Gerald, an alien, on the other. The further contentioij was urged that the cause Was embraced in the
* clause of ยง 1 of the lemoval Act of 1887-8 '(March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 552,. c. 373), conferring original jurisdictiop

FITZ GERALD v. THOMPSON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon Circuit Courts of controversies "between citizens of
a State and foreign states, citizens, or subjects," and that
the following clause of the second section of the act was
applicable:
"Any other suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, of
which the circuit courts of the United States are given
jurisdiction by the preceding section, and which are now
pending, or which may hereafter bq brought, in any state
urt, "maybe removed into the circuit court of the United
States for the proper district by the defendant or defendants therein being non-residents of that State."
The trial court denied the application and subsequently
granted the relief prayed by the bill. On appeal the Supreme Court of. the State of Pennsylvania affirmed the
decree, and in the opinion delivered held that no error was
committed in denying the application to remove. Because
of this latter ruling the cause was brought here. The defendants in error now move to dismiss the writ.
The right to remove from the state court which was asserted had no legal foundation. Lenhart was charged with
a repudiation of his obligations as trustee by a refusal to
apply the trust funds as required by the trust agreement.
Not only was an accounting by him asked and an injunction prayed to prevent him from disposing of the partnership property which was dedicated to the trust, but his
removal as trustee was also sought. Under these circumstances it is plain on the face of the record that no possible
rearrangement of the parties could have been made converting Lenhart into a party plaintiff which would be
consistent with the relief Which it was the-object of the
suit to obtain. Ib this state of the case the assertion that
there was a, denial of a Federal right by the overruling of
the application to remove -is so manifestfly frivolous and
devoid of merit as not to f6rm the basis 6f-jurisdietion -and
to render it necessary to grant the motion to dismiss,
Writ of- error.dsmissed.

