GRING v. IVES.
222 U. S,

Argument for. Plaintiff in Error.

GRING v. IVES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 115.

Submitted December 18, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

The act of March 3, 1899, c. 425,.§ 10, 30 Stat. 1121, 1151, authorizing
establishment of harbor lines was not intended, and did not operate,
to paralyze all state power concerning structures of every character
in navigable waters within their borders, or to automatically destroy
property rights previously acquired under sanction of state authority. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410.
In this case the Federal question relied upon is so absolutely without
merit, and the grounds are so frivolous, as not to afford a basis for
exercise of jurisdiction, and the writ of error is dismissed.
Writ of error to review 150 Nor..Car. 137, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James A. Toomey for plaintiff in error:
The record as a whole shows clearly that the claim of
Federal rights was asserted from. the beginning by the
plaintiff in error in such manner as to bring it to the
attention of the lower court. The paramouat right of
navigation in navigable waters was claimed, and it was
maintained that any obstruction to navigation without authority from Congress or the legislature was unlawful; constituted a public nuisance, and Was a direct violation of the
provisions of §§ 9-12 of the River and Harbor Act, March 3,
1899, 30 Stat. 1151. It further appears from the record
that the right, privilege and authority claimed under the
aforesaid act of Congress were denied by the court below,
and consequently this court has jurisdiction. Appleby v.
Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524; 172 U. S. 67.
The substantial question presented is whether the lower

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

court erred in refusing to instruct the jury that defendants
in error, upon all the evidence, could not recover, because
the acts of negligence complained against were not the
proximate cause of the injury, but that the efficient and
proximate cause of said collision and consequent damage
was the maintenance by the defendants in error of a
public nuisance in a navigable river of the United States,
expressly contrary to and in violation of a Federal
statute.
The Pasquotank river is a navigable stream, and the
defendants in error were not affirmatively authorized by
Congress or by any legislative power to construct or maintain a marine railway or any other structure extending into
that river one hundred feet beyond the harbor line shown
to have been established by the Secretary of War pursuant
to the act of Congress. The collision occurred at nighttime at point 36 feet outside the harbor line so established, where the water was 25 feet deep and navigable,
The lower court held as a matter of law that whether
there was a harbor line or not, the marine railway was a
necessity for the repair of vessels, and that it was not
shown to be located there illegally or to be a public nuisance.
This doctrine is a denial of the validity and legal effect
of the United States statute hereinbefore set forth, hnd is
at variance with decided cases. HannibalBridge Company
v. United States, 221 U. S. 194.
If defendants in error had complied with the statute
and had not placed an obstruction in a navigable stream,
the accident would not have happened. Atlee v. Packet
Co., 21 Wall. 389; Grand Trunk Ry. v. Backus, 46 Fed.
Rep. 216; Northern PacificRy. v. United States, 44 C. C. A.
136; see also cases reported at 38 Fed. Rep. 614; 9 N. J.
Eq. 526; 28 N. Y. 396; 72 Maine, 181; 18 Barb. (N. Y.)
277; 9 Can, Sup. Ct. 239; and cases cited in 90 L. R. A. 59,
note 7.

GRING v. IVES.
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. TE. F. Aydlett for defendants in error:
Establishment of harbor lines can only be -shown by
proof of the ordinance, just as any other ordinance. The
ordinance not being shown there is no proof.
Any obstruction beyond an established harbor line is
not necessarily unlawful." The evidence shows-this railway
to have been constructed "some 18 years ago"; that
referring to harbor line tends to show an establishment if
any in 1902, 16 or 18 years after the construction of the
ways. Such an ordinance has no retroactive effect and
does not affect structures previously erected. 29 Cyc. 343
aiid 344 (b); Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. (Mass.) 53.
Defendant would not be justified in recklessly or negligently running into even-an unlawful obstruction.
In the absenc of any specific legislation on the subject,
riparian owners have a qualified property in the water
frontage belonging by nature to their land, and a right to
construct wharfs, piers, landings, etc., subject to such
general rules aid regulations as the legislature, in the exercise of its power, may prescribe for the protection of public
rights in rivers or navigable waters. Bond v. Wool, 107
Nor. Car. 148.- Brainbridqe v. Sherlock, supra.
Railways of this character which are necessities of
commerce and for repairing vessels, cannot be constructed
without going under water and to deep-water mark.
Otherwise vessels of deep draught could not be hauled out,
and therefore the extension is necessary to a reasonable
use of the same.
. The rights of navigation.while paramount are
not exclusive, Post v. Munn, 7 Am. Dec. 570, and even granting that the railways were absolutely without warrant of
law and therefore a nuisance and subject to abatement,
pa.rties must yet exercise care and cannot recklessly or
wantonly injure them, for they are still private property
and entitled to this degree of protection. 29 Cyc. 305,.
311(h), 318; The Brinton, 66 Fed. Rep. 71.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

222 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Gring, upon the theory that Federal questions were
wrongly decided against him, seeks the reversal of a
judgment for three hundred dollars, damages occasioned
by the running of a tugboat, of which he was the owner,
against a marine railway, the property of the defendants
in error, who were plaintiffs below. The railway was situated on the shore of the Pasquotank river i the hiarbor of
Elizabeth City, North Carolina. The injury to the railway was committed on the night of December 24, 1905.
The Supreme Court of North Carolina, in affirming the
judgment of the trial court, rendered on the verdict of a
jury, stated these facts (150 Nor. Car. 137, 138):
The marine railway had been in existence for eighteen
years prior to the injury complained of. The railway
extended to the margin of the channel and between the end
of the railway and the opposite side of the channel, which
was buoyed, there was a space of 540 feet, constituting
the usual highway for navigation. The night upon which
the tug collided with the bridge was "a bright moonlight
night and there was also a bonfire on shore and a line of
electric lights which lighted up the harbor." The conduct
which occasioned the running of the tug against the railway was thus stated: "The evidence is that the tugboat,
which was bound down the river, instead of following
the usual course, ran diagonally towards the shore, and
striking the marine railway of plaintiffs, damaged it.
The captain of the tugboat testified that he knew the locality well, having-passed it more than two hundred times.
After the injury he offered to pay damages, but the parties
could not agree upon the amount:" Commenting upon the
facts thus stated, the court observed: "Clearly the proximate cause (of the injury) was the negligence of the tugboat in not proceeding on its course in a channel 540 feet

GRING v. IVES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wide, but going several hundred feet out of its way and
driving in shore against the marine railway."
In disposing of a contention concerning an alleged
harbor line established under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1899, c. 425, § 10, 30 Stat. 1121, 1151, and the
proposition that the railway, because it projected beyond
said assumed line, was a public nuisance, and therefore the
complainant was entitled to negligently and wantonly
injure it, the coirt said (p. 138):
"Whether there was a harbor line or not, the marine
railway was a necessity for the repair of vessels. It was
not shown to be located there illegally, or that it was a
public nuisance; and if it had been, the tugboat was not
authorized to run into it unnecessarily and negligently,
as the evidence tended to show."
The only one of the assignments of error filed at the
time this writ of error was sued out which in the remotest
way relates to a Federal question is the third, which is
concerned with the reasoning of the court just referred to
and is based upon the assumption that there could be no
recovery because of the asserted establishment by the Secretary of War some time between 1900 and 1902 of a harbor line under the authority of the act above mentioned.
In argument the proposition to which the assignment
relates is, that the court erred in not deciding that any
structure projecting into the river beyond the established
harbor line was illegal and a public nuisance which the
plaintiff might wantonly injure or destroy. As we have
seen, however, the court found as an undisputed fact that
the railway in question was constructed and had been in
operation many years before the establishment of the
alleged harbor line. Under this condition the court was
obviously right in holding that the railway had not been
located in violation of the act of 1899 and was equally
obviously right in deciding that the plaintiff had no right
to recklessly injure it. The basis of the assumed Federal
VOL. ccxxii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

right rests upon the plainly erroneous assumption that the
act of 1899 was intended to or did operate to paralyze all
state power concerning structures of every character in
navigable waters within their borders, and to destroy automatically all vested rights of property in such works, even
although acquired prior to the act of 1899 under the sanction of state authbrity. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.
410. See also Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 365.
In view of the character of the case, the facts found by
the court below and the absolute want of merit in *the
Federal question relied upon, we are of opinion that the
grounds relied upon for review are of so frivolous a nature
as not to afford the basis for the exercise of jurisdiction,
and our decree therefore will be
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. STATE OF
WASHINGTON EX REL.-ATMNSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 136.

Submitted December 19, 1911.--Decided January 9, 1912.

A train moving and carrying freight between two points in the same
State, but which is hauling freight between points one of which is
within and the other without the State, or haWling it through the
State between points both without the State, is engaged in interstate commerce and subject to the laws of Congress enacted in regard thereto. Southern Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.20.
The right of a State to apply its police power to subjects under the
exclusive control of Congress, but in regard to whichCongress has

