UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

pari materia, we find no manifest legislative intent forbidding the application of the rule of construction referred to. We therefore conclude that the words "or
concerning schemes devised for the purpose of obtaining
money or property by false pretenses," are to be limited to
schemes haing a similitude to the lottery and other like

schemes particularly described by the particular words of
the sect1.d. This view finds.strong support in the case of
United States v. Sauer, 88 Fed. Rep. 249, where the opinion
was by Judge Severens, then District Judge.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 593.

Argued October 25, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Section 2350, Rev. Stat., is, by 9 1 and 4 of the act of April 28, 1904,
33 Stat. 552, c. 17.72, continued in force in the District of Alaska,
and prohibits more than one entry of coal land by or fo- the shine
person or association of persons.
The policy adopted by Congress of restricting one coal land entry to
each qualified entryman was to prevent monopolization of coal
lands by securing to every citizen the right to obtain for himself
one tract of not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres.
The rule of construction that an intention to depart from a long enforced unifofm policy will not be imputed to Congress, applied in
construing the act of April 28, 1904, 33 Stat. 552, c. 1772, relative
to coal lands in Alaska.
A policy to confine the entryman to one entry is not affected by the
fact that Congress leaves him free to assign a location made in good
faith. United Stats v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
All the statutes affecting coal land entries-act of March 3; 1873,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of ihe Court.

222 U. S.

17 Stat. 607, c. 279, now §§ 2347-2349, Rev. Stat.; act of June 6,
1900, 31 Stat. 658, c. 996, and act of April 28, 1904, 33 Stat. 525,
c. 1772-are in pari materiaand must be read together, and no part
of the earlier-acts is to be regarded as inoperative unless no bther
construction of the later legislation is reasonable.
The single object of the act of 1904 in regard to coal lands in Alaska
was to provide for the sale of unsurveyed coal lands, and it becomes
inoperative as soon as the lands are surveyed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of statutes
relating to location of coal lands in Alaska, are stated in
the opinion.
The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. E. C. Hughes, ivith whom Mr. Wilmon Tucker was
on the brief, for defendant in error, Munday.
Mr. Charles W. Dorr and Mr. E. C. Hughes, with whom
Mr. Hiram E. Hadley was on the brief, for defendant in
error, Shiels.

MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error is prosecuted by the United States
from a judgment sustaining a motion to quash an indictmeint.

The indictment is founded upon § 5440, Revised Statutes, and charges a conspiracy to defraud the United States
by illegally obtaining title to forty contiguous tracts of
coal lands in the District of Alaska, aggregating six thousand and eighty-seven acres, collectively known as the
Stracey group, and averred to be of the value of ten million dollars.
The indictment is too long to be set out, even in an
abbreviated form. The gravamen of the conspiracy
charged is that the defendants induced or procured divers
qualified persons to take the several steps required by law

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to make locations of Alaska coal lands, not for themselves,
-but as the mere agents or representatives of the defendants
for the purpose of .securing to two named corpo-ations a
larger area of coal land than such corporations could lawfully locate for themselves.
For the defendants in error it has been very ably urged
that since the concededly applicable coal land law gives
to every individual, who is of age and a citizen of the
United States, the right to make a coal land location for
himself, and to assign his location when made, that there
can be no fraud if he makes such location in the first instance for the benefit of another competent to buy the
location when made. But if the provisions of the general
coal land entry law found in § 2350, Revised Statutes, apply to the entry of coal lands in Alaska, the contention is
now no longer an open one under. the repeated interpretations of that section found in the cases of United States v.
Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S. 160; United States v. Keitel,
211 U. S. 370, and UnitedStates v. Forrester,211 U. S. 399.
The corporations by whose procuirement the forty locations by forty different persons were made, under the express terms of the statute referred to, were disqualified
from making more than one location each, and being thus
disqualified could not make a second location through an
agent acting for their use and benefit. Any construction
which would permit one prohibited by express command
of the law from making more than one entry or location
to make other entries or locations through the agency of
a third person, qualified to make an entry for himself,
would be to sanction a device which would nullify the purpose of the restriction.
The result must turn upon whether the restrictive features of § 2350, Revised Statutes, are applicable to the sale
of coal lands in Alaska. The ruling of the court below
and the contention made by the defendants in error is that
the act of April 28, 1904, 33 Stat., p. 525, c. 1772, is the
VOL. ccxxii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

only act applicable to the unsurveyed coal lands of Alaska.
That act will be found s~t out in the margin.,
It purports to be an amendment of the act of June 6,
'That any person or association of persons qualified to make entry
under the coal-land laws of the United States, who shall have opened
or improved a coal mine or coal mines on any of the unsurveyed public
lands of the United States in the district of Alaska, may locate the
lands upon which sfich mine or mines are situated, in rectangular
tracts containing forty, eighty, or one hundred and sixty acres, with
north and south bbundary lines run according to the true meridian, by
marking the four corners thereof with permanent monuments, so that
the boundaries thereof may be readily and easily traced. And all such
locators shall, within one year from the passage of this Act, or within
one year from making such location, file for record in the recording
district, and with the register and receiver of the land district in *hich
the lands are located or situated, a notice containing the name or
names of the locator or locators, the date of the location, the description of the lands located, and a reference to such natural objects or
permanent monuments as will readily identify the same.
.SF.c. 2. That such locator or locators, or their assigns, who are citizens of the United States, shall receive a patent to the lands located by
presenting, at any time within three years from the date of such notice,
to the register and reteiver of the land district in which the lands so
located are situated an application therefor, accompanied by a certified
copy of a plat of survey and field notes thereof, made by a United
States deputy surveyor or a United States mineral surveyor duly
approved by the surveyor-general for the district of Alaska, and a
payment of the sum of ten dollars per acre for the lands applied for;
but no such application shall be allowed until after the applicant has
caused a notice of, the presentatioja thereof, embracing a description
of the lands, to have been.published in a newspaper in the district of
Alaska published nearest the location of the premises for a period of
sixty days, and shall have caused copies of such notice, together with
a certified copy of the official plat or-survey, to have been kept posted
in a conspicuous place upon the land applied for and in the land office
for the district in which the lands are located for a like period, and
until after he shall have furnished proof of such publication and posting, and such other proof as is required by the coal-land laws: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to authorize entries to be made or. title to be acquired to the shore of any
navigable waters within said -district.

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1900, 31 Statutes at Large, p. 658, c! 796, which extended
to Alaska "so much of the public land laws of the United
States

.

.

.

as relate to coal lands, namely, §§ 2347

to 2352, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes." The sections
of the general law thus extended to Alaska are set out in
the margin.1
These.sections came from the act ot March 3, 1873, 17
SEC. 3. That durifig such period of posting and publication, or within
six months thereafter, any person or association of persons having or
asserting any adverse interest or claim to the tract of land or any part
thereof sought to be purchased shall file in the land office where such
application is pending, under oath, an adverse claim, setting forth the
nature and extent thereof, and such adverse claimant shall, within
sixty days after the filing of such adverse claim, begin an action to
quiet title in a court of competent jurisdiction within the district of
Alaska, and thereafter no patent shall issue for such claim until the
final adjudication of the rights of the parties, and such patent shall then
be issued in conformity with the final decree of such court therein.
SEC. 4. That all the provisions of the coal-land laws of the United
States not in conflict with the proisions of this Act shall continue
and be in full force in the district of Alaska.
1 SEC. 2347. Every person above the age of twenty-one years, who
is a citizen of the United States, or who has declared his intention to
become such, or any association of persons severally qualified as above,
shall, upon application to the register of the proper land-office, have
the right to enter, by legal subdivisions, any quantity of vacant coallands of the United Stdtes not otherwise appropriated or reserved by
competent authority, not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres to
such individual person, or three hundred and twenty acres to such
association, upon payment to the receiver of not less than ten dollars
per acre for such lands, where the same shall be situated more than
fifteen miles from any completed railroad,. and not less than twenty
dollars per acre for such lands as shall be within fifteen miles of such
road.
SEc. 2348. Any person or a.ssociation of persons severally qualified,
as above provided, who have opened and improved, or shall hereafter
open and improve, any coal mine or mines upon the public lands, and
shall be in actual possession of the same, shall he entitled to a preferenceright of entry, under the preceding section, of the mines so opened and
improved; Prorided, That when any as-ociation of not less than four

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

Statutes at Large, p. 607, c. 279. The only change made is
in the substitution in § 2350 of the words, "The three preceding sections shall be held to authorize," etc., for the
words of the fourth section of the original act, reading,
"That this act shall be held to authorize,"-a change
made necessary because the provisions of the original act
are made a part of' a chapter of the general land law embracing the sale of other public lands. The act of 1873, as
thus carried into the Revised Statutes, did not permit an
entry of coal lands which had not been surveyed. The
persons, severally qualified as above provided, shall have expended
not less than five thousand dollars in working and improving any such
mine or mines, such association may enter not exceeding six hundred
and forty acres, including such mining improvements.
SEC. 2349. All claims under the preceding section must be presented
to the register of the proper land-district within sixty days after the
date of actual possession and the commencement of improvements on
the land, by the filinj of a declaratory statement therefor; but when
the township plat is not on file at the date of such improvement, filing
must be made within sixty days from the receipt of such plat at the
district office; and where the improvements shall have been made
prior to the expiration of three months from the third day of March,
-eighteen hundred and seventy-three, sixty days from the expiration of
such three months shall be allowed for the filing ofa declaratory statement, and no sale under the provisions of this section shall be allowed
until the expiration of six months from the third day of March, eighteen
hundred and seventy-three.
SEC. 2350. The three preceding sections shall be held to authorize
only one entry by the same person or association of persons; and no
association of persons any member of -which shall have taken the
benefit of such sections, either as an-individual or as a riember of any
other association, shall enter or hold any other lands uncder the provisions thereof; and no member of a-y association which shall have
taken the benefit of such sections shall enter or hold any other lands
under their provisions; and all persons claiming under section twentythree hundred and forty-eight shall be required to prove their respectiverights and pay for the lands filed upon within ohe year from the time
prescribed for filing their respective claims; and upon failure~to file the
proper notice, or to pay for the land'within the xe-quired period, the
same shall be subject to entry by any other quali ted applicant.

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

entry permitted was only '"bylegal subdivisions." The
coal lands in Alaska were unsurveyed. Thus it happened
that although the act of. June 6, 1900, extended the provisions of the gener.l law to Alaska, that law was for a time
inoperative because the coal lands. could not be entered
"by legal subdivisions," when no such legal subdivisions
existed. So obviously was this the case that a circlar
from the Department of the Interior was issued, instructing the registers and teceivers in the district of Alaska
that no coal filing nor entry could be filed in their offices
until there should be filed with them "the official plat of
survey of the township" in which entries were sought to
be made. This was the situation which brought abQut the
act of April 28, 1904, set out in the margin..
The contention is that although this act of 1904 expressly provides "that all of the provisions of the coal land
laws of the United States not in conflict with the provisions of this act shall continue and be in full force in the
district of Alaska," that the'restrictions in the general coal
land. law authorizing "only one entry by the same person
or association of persons," etc., is in conflict and therefore
not operative to locations authorized by the later legislation.
Prior to the act of 1873, the disposition of coal lands was
included in the general provisions regulating the sale of
public lands, and under which there were no limitations
upon the number of entries one person might make. -But
in 1873, when Congress sought..to deal with the specific
subject of the sale of coal lands, the rule was adopted of
confining every qualified entryman to one entry, and every
association of persons, not less than four in number and
under certain conditions, to the entry of not exceeding six
hundred and forty acres. A corporation has been held to
be an association of persons within the meaning of this
section. United States v. Trinidad Coal Company; 137
U. S. 160, 169. The policy of this restriction was to pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

vent a monopolization of such coal lands by securing to
every citizen the right to obtain for himself one tract, not
exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, of such coal land.
United States v. Trinidad Coal Company, cited above;
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
That continued to be the uniform policy of Congress,
and so continues, unless a departure has been made by
the act of 1904. But, if so, it is only as to the unsurveyed
coal lands of Alaska, for undoubtedly when such lands
shall be'surveyed, they will come at once under the restrictions of the general law as found in §§ 2347 to 2350, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes, since the act of 1904 applies only to the unsurveyed public lands of Alaska.
There occurs to us no reason for assuming that Congress
intended to abandon the policy of keeping open the right
of every citizen to enter one tract and no more of the unsurveyed coal lands of Alaska that -would not lead also to
the abandonment of the policy as respects coal lands which
had been surveyed.
An intention to depart from a uniform policy, so long enforced in regard to coal lands, should not be imputed to
Congress unless the act of 1904 admits of no other construction. Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wallace, 660, 669.
But it is said that the purpose to depart from the policy
which imposed a restriction upon the number of locations
which had before been authorized is manifest in the provision of § 2 of the act in question, which requires that the
locator or locators, "or their assigns" who are citizens of
the United States, shall receive a patent to the lands so
located, etc. The fact that one who has made a lawful
location is permitted to make an assignment, as is the
plain implication from the requirement that a patent
"shall?' issue to "the locator or his assigns," is not indicative'of a purpose to abandon the prohibition upon more
than one location. By going upon coal land, opening up
a mine, permanently marking the boundaries, and filing

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and making the notices required under the law one, otherwise qualified, initiates a claim to the land and may, by
further compliance with the law, earn the right to a-psktent.
That the policy of the law stops at this point and leaves
him free to assign his location, does not impeach the intent of Congress to confine a locator to a single location.
The prohibition is against more than one entry, not against
alienation after a good-faith location.
Of the restrictions concerning theentry of land under
the Timber and Stone Act, it was said: "The act does not
in any respect limit the dominion which the purchaser has
over the land after its purchase from the government, or
restrict in the slightest his power of alienation. All that it
denounces is a prior agreement, the acting for another in
the purchase." United States v. Budd, 144 U. S. 154,
163.
The same argument was addressed to this court- in
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 389, as a reason for
confining the prohibition to one entry made by a qualified
person for the use and benefit of another who was disqualified from making a second entry. But this court
said: "True, the statute imposes no limitation on the right
of a puichaser who has acquired coal land from the United
States to sell the same after he has become the owner of
the land. The absence, however, of a limitation on the
power to sell after acquisition affords no ground for saying
that the express prohibition of the statute against more
than one entry by the same person should not be enforced
according to its plain meaning. This clearly follows, since
the right to sell that which one has lawfully acquired neither dirctly nor indirectly implies the authority to unlawfully acquire in violation of an express prohibition."
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 389.
Upon the same line of reasoning we find no reason for
supposing that Congress intended by the act of 1904 to
remove the 'restriction upon more than one entry'by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

same person, because it imposed none upon alienation
after the right to a patent had accrued by a good-faith
location.
But it is said -thatthe restriction upon the right to make
more than one entry by the same person applied only to
entries made under the three precedingsections, i. e., §§ 2347,
2348 and 2349. That this peculiar limitation has no material significance, we have already pointed out, its presence in the section being due to the fact that § 2350 and
the preceding three sections, constituting the original act
of 1873, were placed in the midst of a chapter embracing
many other provisions in no wise related to the entry of
coal lands. It is, however, to be borne in mind that this
act of 1904 is but an amendment to the act of 1900, which
extended these sections of the general coal entry law to
the district of Alaska. The three acts are in pari materia
and must be read together, and no part of the previously
existing law upon the same subject is to be regarded-as
inoperative unless no other construction of the later legislation is reasonable.
The single object of Congress in the act of 1904 was to
provide for the sale of coal lands which had not been surveyed. The provisions for the sale of such coal lands, in or
out of Alaska, which had been surveyed, so that entries
could be made "by legal subdivision," had already been
covered by the general law which had been extended to
Alaska. The conditions in Alaska were but temporary.
When the coal land there should be brought under the system of surveys which prevailed in the better settled parts
of the country, the act of 1904 would cease to be operative,
having nothing to which it could appLy. The legislation,
read in the light of the situation and of the uniform policy
which had so long prevailed of prohihiting more than one
entry to one person, makes it plain that Congress did not
intend to except the unsurveyed coal lands of' Alaska
from the operation of the restrictions which attached to

MISSOU'RI &c. RY. CO. v. OLATHE.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the sale of the surveyed coal lands in Alaska'and elsewhere.
The judgment must be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

MISSOURI & KANSAS INTERURBAN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. CITY OF OLATHE, KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 726.

Motion to dismiss. Submitted November 13, 1911.-Decided
December 4, 1911.

Unless it appears from the record that the judgment sought to be reviewed finally determines the cause this court is without jurisdictionWhere the judgment sought to be reviewed affirms the judgment
below but merely sustains the demurrer without 'ismissing the
suit, so that tha cause is left standing in the lower court fdr further
proceedings, it is not a final judgment reviewable by this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Doster, Mr. A. F. Hunt, Jr., Mr. A. M. Harvey and Mr. J. E. Addington, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr..Stephen H. Allen for defendant in 'error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

1By

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES.

Motion to dismiss. This suit was. brought by the Rdilway Company, plaintiff in error, against the City .of
Olathe, Kansas, in the'district court of Johnson County,

