KINNEY v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES AT THE RELATION OF KINNEY
v. UNITED STATES FIDELITYAND GUARANTY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 664.

Motion to dismiss or affirm. Submitted December 4, 1911.-Decided December 18, 1911.

Where the effect, of the denial of plaintiff's motion for judgment is
simply to postpone consideration of the subject until the trial, plaintiff's interests are not prejudiced and there cannot be reversible error.
Occurrences at the trial cannot be considered if the record contains
no bill of exceptions..
A paper in the record signed by the plaintiff is not a bill of exceptions
although styled exceptions to charge.of jury and purporting to be
initialed by the trial judge. Origet v. United States, 125 U. S. 243.
Even if a part of the record were treated as a bill of exceptions if all
matters therein depend for their solution upon examination of evidence not in the record, this c6urt will affirm, not having any means
for determining whethier reversible error arose frorm the action of the
court.
186 Fed. Rep. 477, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas Stokes and Mr. BayardHenry, for defendant
in error in support of the motion.

Mr. Robert D. Kinney, relator in propria persona, in
opposition thereto.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court. By
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

The trial cour" i, tructed a verdict for the defendant,

284 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U.S.

and the court below affirmed its action. The suit was to
recover upon the bond of a Clerk of a Circuit Court. 186
Fed. Rep. 477. We think a motion to affirm must prevail.
All the errors relied upon complain of a refusal to grant
a motion of the plaintiff for judgment because of the insufficiency of "an affidavit of defense" and of various
rulings made at the trial. Although the motion for judgment was denied, its merits were not passed upon, since
the effect of the ruling was simply to postpone consideration of the subject until the trial, and therefore the exception which was formally allowed was simply "to the
refusal by the court to decide the issue of law raised by
plaintiff's motion for judgment," etc. But afterwards
the defendant file d formal pleas to the statement of plaintiff's claim and joined issue thereon. As the ruling left
it open to raise the question presented by the motion,
it follows that the mere order of postponement did not
prejudice and cannot possibly constitute reversible error.
As to the contentions which relate to occurrences at the
trial, they cannot be considered, as the record contains
no bill of exceptions. The paper in the record styled
"Exceptions to the charge to jury," initialed "J. B. McP.,
trial judge," and signed by the plaintiff, is'not a bill of
exceptions (Origet v. United States, 125 U. S. 240, 243),
but if it were to be treated as a bill of exceptions, as all
the matters therein referred to depend for their solution
upon an examination of the evidence which is not in the
record, it follows that we have no means of determining
whether reversible error arose from an action of the court
on any of the subjects to which the paper refers. This
being the case, it becomes our duty to affirm.

Affirmed.

