MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

record, as we find nothing giving rise to a clear convic-

tion on our part that error has resulted from the action of
the courts below, it follows that the judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals must be and it is affirmed.
Affrmed.

MUTUAL LOAN COMPANY v. MARTELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 29.

Submitted October 27, 1911.-Decided December 11, 1911.

The validity of police regulations depends upon the circumstances of
each case, whether arbitrary or reasonable and whether really designed to accomplish a legitimate public purpose. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 591.
The power of the State extends to s6 dealing with conditions existing
in the State as to bring out of them the greatest welfare of its people.
Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311.
Police power is but another name for the power of government; it is
subject only to constitutional limitations which allow a comprehensive range of judgment, and it is the province of the State to adopt
by its legislature such policy as it deems best.
Legislation cannot be judged by theoretical standards but must be
tested by the concrete conditions inducing it.
A State may, as a police regulation, make assignments of future wages
invalid except under conditions that will properly restrict extravagance and improvidence of wage-earneis.
A State may, under conditions justifying it, prescribe that an assignment by a married man of wages to be earned by him in future shall
be invalid unless consented to by his wife.
This court recognizes the propriety of deferring to tribunals on the
spot and will not oppose its notions of necessity to legislation
adopted to accomplish a legitimate public purpose. Laurel Hill
Cemetery v. San Francisco,216 U. S. 358.
A State has power to prescribe the form and manner of execution and
VOL. CCXXI-] 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

authentication of legal instruments in regard to property, its devolution and trangfer. Arnett v. Reade, !20 U. S. 311.
There are many legal restrictiqns that may be placed by a State on
the liberty of contract, and this court will not interfere except in a
clear case of abuse of power. Chicago, Burlington'& Quincy R. R.
v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549.
The legislature of a State has a wide. range of discretion in classifying
objects of legislation; and even if the classification be not scientifically nor logically appropriate, if it is not palpably arbitrary and is
uniform within the class, it does not deny equal protection.
Legislation may recognize degrees of evil without denying equal
protection of the laws.
The statute of Massachusetts making invalid assignments for security
for debts of less than $200 of wages to be earned unless accepted in
writing by the employer, consented to by the wife of the assignor,
and filed in a public office, is not unconstitutional as depriving the
borrower or the lender of his property without due process of law,
nor is it unconstitutional, as denying equal protection of the law,
because certain classes of financiai institutions are exempted from
its piovisions. It is a legitimate exercise of the police power and
there is a basis for the classification.
200 Massachusetts, 482, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Massachusetts in
regard to assignments of wages as security for loans, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lee M. Friedman for plaintiff in error:

- Plaintiff does not deny the.right in the legislature to
pass a law fixing the rate of interest that may be taken
on a loan of a sum of money of less than two hundred

dollars; nor the right to reasonably regulate such business,
so long as the statutes for that purpose do not violate

constitutional privileges and guaranties; but does contend
that Oh. 605 of the acts of 1908, Massachusetts, is in violation of such privileges and guaranties.
In order that a statute may be sustained as an exercise
of the police power, the courts must be able to see that the
enactment has for its object the prevention of some offense

MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

or manifest evil, or the preservation of the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare, and that there is some
clea, teal and substantial connection l5etween the assumed purpose of the enactment and the actual provisions
thereof, and that the latter do in some plain, appreciable,
and appropriate manner tend towards the accomplishment of the object for which the power is exercised. 22
Am. & Eng. Ency., 2d ed., 938; Austin v. Murray, 16 Pick.
(Mass.) 126; Greensboro v., Ehrenreih, 80 Alabama, 579;
Noel v. People, 187 Illinois, 587; Chaddock v.Day, 75 Michigan, 527; State v. Ashbrook, 154 Missouri, 375; Smiley
v. McDonald, 42 Nebraska, 5; People v. Gilson, 109 N. Y.
389; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 66.; In re Willshire, 103
Fed. Rep. 620; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; In re
Marshall,102 Fed. Rep. 323.
The police power cannot be used as a cloak for the invasion of personal rights or private property; neither can it
be exercised for private purposes or for the exclusive
benefit of particular individuals or classes. Ritchie v.
People, 155 Illinois, 98; State v. Schlenker, 112 Iowa, 642;
Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Lien v: Norman County
Com'rs, 80 Minnesota, 58; Deems v. Baltimore, 80 Maryland, 164; State v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 68 Minnesota 381.
Occupations may be classified for license, provided alWays the classification is reasonable; but unreasonable
classification which is not 'based on any real distinction
between .the different classes will render a statute void.
21 Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 804; State v. Garbroski, 111 Iowa,
496; State v. Ashbrook, 154 Missouri, 375' Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S.369; Templar v. State Board of Examiners, 131 Michigan, 256; State v. Dering, 84 Wisconsin.
585.
The State may not single out a class of citizens and
subject it to oppressive discrimination. Nashville &c.
R. Co. v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep., 185; Tinsley v. Anderson,
171 U. S. 106; Minneapolis Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

U. S. 29; Watson v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 582; Ohio v. Dollison,
194 U. S. 447.
Even if this law were fair on its face and impartial in
appearance (which it clearly is not), yet, if it is applied
and administered by public authority with an evil eye
and an unequal hand, so as practically to make unjust and
illegal discriminations between persons in similar circumstances material to their rights, the denial of equal justice
is still within the prohibition of the Constitution. Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Henderson v. Mayor of N. Y.,
92 U. S. 259; Chy Sung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275; Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370;
Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703.
By "equal protection of the laws" is meant "equal
security under them to every one under similar terms,
in his life, his liberty, his property and in the pursuit
of happiness." It not only implies the right of each to
resort on the same terms with others to the courts for the
security of his person and property, the prevention and
redress of wrongs, and the enforcement of contracts,
but also his exemption from any greater burdens and
charges than such as are equally imposed upon all others
under like circumstances. Clark v. Kansas City, 176
U. S. 114; Lowe v. Kansas, 163 U. S. 81; State v. Ashbrook,
154 Missouri, 375.
Equality of. rights, privileges, and capacities should and
must unquestionably be the aim of the law. Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Magoun v. Illinois
Trust & S. B. Co., 170 U. S. 283.
The classification is an improper one of the persons
legislated against; making the rate of interest that may
be charged on a loan of money of less than two hundred
dollars depend upon the kind and nature of the security taken is an unconstitutional enactment. Nichols v.
Walter, 37 Minnesota, 262; Johnson v. Ry. Co., 43 Minnesota, 222; Ex. parte Sohncke, 148 California, 262.

MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Argumnent for Plaintiff in Error.

An assignment of future earnings which may accrue
under an existing employment is a"valid contract and
creates rights which may be enforced both at law and in
equity, and to limit them deprives the owner of his property without due process of law. Tripp v. Brownwell,
12 Cush. (Mass.) 376; Citizens' Loan Association v. B.
& M. R. R., 196 Massachusetts, 528. And see as to the
extent of the liberty guaranteed: Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 589; Commonwealth v. Perry, 155 Massachusetts,
117; Bdrbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27.
Section 7 of Ch. 605 is an unlawful interference with
the liberty of both employ6 and the person loaning him
money. Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 53; Allgeyer v.
Louisiana,165 U. S. 578; Powell v. Pennsylvania,127 U. S.
678, 684.
If their rights can be limited by the legislature, it must
be by virtue of the police power reserved to it. As to
definition of .the term "police power" and the'limitations
to which it is subject, see Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush..
53, 84; State v. Ashbrook, 154 Missouri, 375; In re Sohncke,
148 California, 262; Commonwealth v. Perry, 155 Massachusetts, 117; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 53; Kuhn v.
Detroit, 70 Michigan, 534; State v. Redmon, 114 N. W.
Rep. -137; People V. Seele, 231 Illinois, 341; People v.
Marcus, 185 N. Y. 257; Bessette v. People, 193 Illinois,
334; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190
U. S. 169; Godchares v. Wigeman, 113 Pennsylvania, 131;
State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179.
The right to contract a debt or other obligation is
included in the 'right to liberty and is also a right of property. -Kuhn v. Common Council of Detroit, 96 Michigan,
534; Lochner v. New York, supra; Ritchie v. People, 115
Illinois, 98.
In People v. Steele, 231 Illinois, 340, an act to prevent
speculating in theater tickets commonly called "scalping"

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

was declared to have no relation to the public health,
safety, morals, or welfare, and was held unconstitutional,
in that it arbitrarily deprived persons in the theater business, and brokers engaged in selling theater tickets, of
liberty and property without due process of law.
Section 7 considered simply from the standpoint of an
unlawful interference with liberty of contract and the
taking of property without due process of law is unconstitutional, as it is not clear that in some way the public
generally is affected either in health, morals or its general
velfare. RIitchie v. People, 155 Illinois, 98; Toney v. Steel,
141 Alabama, 120; State v. Krentzberg, 114 Wisconsin,
530; Coffeyville Vitrified Brick & T. Co., 69 Kansas, 297;
State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; Gillespie v. People, 188
Illinois, 176; Liep v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co., 58
Arkansas, 407; Harding v. People, 160 Illinois, 459; State
v. Missouri Tie & Timber Co., 181 Missouri, 536; State
v. Loomis, 115 "Missouri, 307; Braunsville Coal Co. v.
People, 147 Illinois, 66; Republic Iron & S. Co. v. State,
160 Indiana, 379; Commonwealth v. Perry, 155 Massachusetts, 117.
A law to be constitutional and valid must be so formed
as to extend to and embrace equally all persons who are or
may be in the like situation or circumstances; and the
classification also must be natural and reasonable, and
not arbitrary or capricious. Sutton v. State, 96 Tennessee,
696; State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri, 307; State v. Hann, 61
Kansas, 146; Magoun v. Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Eden v.
People, 161 Illinois, 296.
Section 8 is unconstitutional, as an unlawful interference with the liberty of contract, as it arbitrarily
requires the consent of a party to the making of the assignment, who has no property interest in the subject-matter
of the same.
A wife has no property interests in her husband's earnings as such. In Massachusetts in no statute is there

MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

any provision giving her any such interest in said earning.
This is clearly an unlawful interference with the liberty
to contract. Fladney v. Sydnor, 172 Missouri, 318..
The exemptions in § 6 render the act unconstitutional.
Statutes exempting building and loan associations stand
on a different footing and can be distinguished see Bailey
v. People, 190 Illinois, 28; Re Home Discount Co., 147 Fed.
Rep. 538; Vanzant v. Waddell, 2 Yerger, 260, 270; Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 156;
State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri, 307; Santa Clarav. Southern
Pacific R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 385.
There was no appearance or brief for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in the case is the validity, under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, of a statute of the State of Massachusetts (Stat.
1908, c. 605) which (§ 7) makes invalid against the employer of a person any assignment of or order for wages
to be earned in the future to secure a loan of less than $200
until the assignment or order be accepted in writing by the
employer and the assignment or order and acceptance
be filed and recorded with the clerk of the city or town in
the place of residence or employment, according as the
person making the assignment be or be not a resident
of the Commonwealth. If such person be married, the
written consent of his wife must be attached to the assignment or. order. (Section 8.). National banks and banks
which are under the supervision of the bank commissioner,
and certain loan companies, are exempt from the provisions of the act. (Section 6.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

The action is in contract on two promissory notes given
by two different persons with an assignment by each of
wages to be earned in the future in the defendant's service
(defendant in error here, and we will so designate him,
and the plaintiff in error as plaintiff). The assignments
were duly recorded, but were not accepted in writing by
defendant. The assignor in the second assignment was a
married man whose wife did not consent to the assignment.
Judgment was entered in the Superior Court for the
defendant, which was affirmed by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts. 200 Massachusetts, 482.
The contention of plaintiff is (1) that the provisions of
§§ 7 and 8 deprive it of due process of law, and (2) that
§ 6 deprives it of the equal protection of the laws.
(1) To sustain this contention it is urged that the statute
being an exer6ise of the police power of the State, its
purpose must have "some clear, real and substantial
connection" with the preservation of the public health,
safety, morals or general welfare, and it is insisted that the
statute of Massachusetts has not such connection and is
therefore invalid.
This court has had many occasions to define, in general
terms, the police power and to give particularity to the
definitions by special applications. In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S.
561, 592, it was said that "the police power of a State
embraces regulations designed to promote the public convenience or the general prosperity, as well as regulations
designed to promote the public health, the public morals
or the public safety," and that the validity of a police
regulation "must depend upon the circumstances of each
case and the character of the regulation, whether arbitrary
or reasonable and Whether really designed to accomplish a.
legitimate public purpose."
In Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S.311, 318, it was decided
that the police power is not confined "to the suppression

MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of what is offensive, disorderly or unsanitary," but "extends to so dealing with the conditions which exist in the
State as to bring out of them the greatest welfare of its
people."
In a sense, the police power is but another name for
the power of government, and a contention that a particular exercise of it offends the due process clause of the
Constitution is apt to be very intangible to a precise
consideration and answer. Certain general principles,
however, must be taken for granted. It is certainly the
province of the State, by its legislature, to adopt such
policy as to it seems best. There are constitutional limitations, of course, but these allow a very comprehensive
range of judgment. And within that range the Massachusetts statute can be justified. Legislation cannot be judged
by theoretical standards. It must be tested by the concrete conditions which induced it, and this test was applied by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in
passing on the validity of the statute under review.
The court hesitated to say, as at least, one court has
said, that a total prohibition of the assignment of wages
would be valid, but justified the partial restriction of the
statute on the ground that the extravagance or improvidence of the wage-earner might tempt to the disposition
of wages to be earned, and .he and his family, deprived
of the means of support, might become a public charge.
It was pointed out besides -thathis needs might be taken
advantage of by the unscrupulous. The purposes of the
statute are certainly assisted by the formalities which
it prescribes as requisite to the validity of an assignment.
The requirement that it (the assignment) be accepted in
writing by the employer, it was pointed out, protects him
and secures the assignment from dispute; and the requirement that the acceptance and.the assignment be recorded
checks an attempt of the wage-earner to procure a dishonest credit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911;
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

The court found more difficulty with the provision
which requires the consent of the wage-earner's wife to
the assignment, but justified it on the general considerations we have mentioned, and on the ground of her interest in the right use of his wages, though she have no legal
title in them.
We cannot say, therefore, that the statute as a police
regulation is arbitrary and unreasonable and not designed
to accomplish a legitimate public purpose. We certainly
cannot oppose to the legislation our notions of its necessity, and we have expressed "the propriety of deferring to the tribunals on the spot." Laurel Hill Cemetery v.
San Francisco,216 U. S. 358, 365.
There are other grounds upon whiQh the statute may
be sustained than those expressed by the Supreme Judicial
Court of the State. As we have seen, it does not prohibit
assignments of wages to be earned. It prescribes conditions to the validity of such assignments, and in this it
has many examples in legislation. It has the same general foundation that laws have which prescribe the evidence of transactions and the manner of the execution
and authentication of legal instruments. The laws of
the States exhibit in their diversities the power of the legislature over property, its devolution and transfer. It
is rather late in the day to question that power. See
Arnett v. Reade, 220 U. S. 311.
But if we consider the Massachusetts statute strictly/
as a limitation upon the power of contract it still must
be held valid. A statute not unlike it came before this'
court in Knoxsille Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13.
It was a statute of the State of Tennessee and required
the redemption in cash of any. store orders or other evidence of indebtedness issued by employers in payment of
wages due to employs. It was assailed as an arbitrary
interference with the right of coitract. It was sustained
as a proper exercise of the power of the State.

MUTUAL LOAN CO. v. MARTELL.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There must, indeed, be a certain freedom of contract,
and, as there ca.nnot be a precise, verbal expression of the
limitations of it, arguments against any particular limitation may have plausible strength, and yet many legal
restrictions have been and must be put upon such freedom
in adapting human laws to human conduct and necessities.
A too precise reasoning should not be exercised, and before this court may interfere there must be a clear case of
abuse of power. See Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, where the right of contract and its limitation by the legislature are fully discussed.
(2) This contention attacks § 6 of the statute which
exempts from its provisions certain banks, banking institutions and loan companies. It is urged that the provision is discriminatory and therefore denies to plaintiff
the equal protection of the laws.
We have declared so often the wide range of discretion
which the legislature possesses in classifying the objects
of its legislation that we may be excused from a citation
of the cases. We shall only repeat that the classification
need not be scientific nor logically appropriate, and if
not -palpably arbitrary and is uniform within the class,
it is within such discretion. The legislation under review
was directed at certain evils which had arisen, and the
legislature, considering them and from whence they arose,
might have thought or discerned that they could not or
would not arise from a greater freedom to the institutions
mentioned than to individuals. This was the view that
.the Supreme Judicial Court took, and,. we think, rightly
took. The court said that the legislature might have decided that the dangers which the statute was intended to
prevent would not exist in any considerable degree in loans
made by institutions which were under the supervision of
bank commissioners, and "believed rightly that the business done by them would not need regulation-in the inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court..

222 U. S.

est cf employ6s or employers," citing State v. Wickenhoefer, 64 Atl. Rep. 273, a decision by the Supreme Court
of Delaware. See Engel v. O'Malley, 219. U. S. 128.
But even if some degree of.evil which the statute was
intended to prevent could be ascribed to loans made by
the exempted institutions, their exception would not make
the law unconstitutional. Legislation may recognize degrees of evil without being arbitrary, unreasonable, or
in conflict with the equal protection provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Ozan Lumber Co. v. Union Bank, 207 U. S. 251;
Heath & Milligan Co. v. Worst, Id. 338.
This court sustained a classification like that of the
Massachusetts statute in Griffith v. Connecticut, 218 U. S.
563, where a statute of Connecticut, which fixed maximum rates of interest upon money loaned within the
State to persons subject to its jurisdiction was upheld as
a valid exercise of the police power of the State; and a
provision of the tatute which exempted from its operation "any national bank or trust company duly incorporated under the laws of the State, and pawnbrokers,"
was decided to be a legal classification.
Judgment affirmed..

