OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Syllabus.

222 U. S.

seriously contended that the difference between Scottville, Tenn., and Scottsville, Tennessee is of the substance." The court further said: "The presumption is
that the company has complied with the law. And if it
were otherwise, we are of opinion that the act of Congress,
and the orders of the Commission made thereunder, requiring the publication of rates, was made for an entirely
different purpose from that involved in this inquiry, and
does not constitute such interfering action. See Harrell
v. Ry., 144 N. C., pp. 540-541."
We have set forth in No. 487 our reasons for holding
otherwise.
Judgment reversed and the case' remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Mr. Justice LtrTON does not agree with the court as to
the facts of this case, and for that reason does not think
that it falls under No. 487. He, therefore, dissents.

TREAT, TREASURER OF COCONINO COUNTY,
ARIZONA, v. GRAND CANYON RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF ARIZONA.
No. 86.

Argued December 8, 11, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

Where it is inherently legal and protects private rights, the construction given a local statute by the Supreme Court of a Territory will
be followed by this court, unless there is such manifest error as to
warrant reversal.
In this case this court follows the construction, given to a territorial
statute of Arizona by the Supreme Court of that Territory, that
an exemption from taxation of certain railroad property went with

the land and extended to assigns of the first road.
12 Arizona, 69, 117, affirmed.

TREAT v. GRAND CANYON RY. CO.
222 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

THE facts axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. Elias S. Clark aid Mr. William C. Prentiss, with
whom Mr. Henry F. Ashurst was on the brief, for appel-

lants:
The exemption laws do not amount to a contract protected by the constitutional guarantee. Wisconsin &c.
Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379.
Although these acts confer the exemption upon the constructing company, its successors and assigns, the words
successors and assigns are not words of contract, but
merely expressions of legislative intent to be considered
and construed in connection with the expression of legislative intent to be found in the statute under which the
purchasing company derives its franchise and authority
to succeed the constructing company.
Even if these acts amounted to contracts with the constructing companies, the constitutional guarantee would
extend only to those companies, and whether or not the
exemption would pass to a successor or assign would likewise depend on the legislative intent to be determined in
the same manner. Rochester R. R. Co. v. Rochester, 205
U. S. 236.
Section 8 of the railroad law (No. 3) of Arizona of 1897,
is effective to deprive a corporation created under Act
No. 3 of 1897 of the power to succeed to an exemption from
taxation under then existing or future law of the Territory
of Arizona.
This is also rendered clear by the legislative history of
Act No. 3. Section 8 was not in the bill as introduced,
but was inserted as an amendment while the bill was
under consideration in the Council. See Journal of the
Legislative Assembly of Arizona, 1897, Council Bill No. 3,
pp. 321 and 346; see also Act No. 28, of 1897.
The trial court reached the conclusion that the prop-erty of the railway company was not exempt from taxaVOL. ccxxii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

tion under existing law, for the reason that such exemption as its predecessor in interest, the Sante Fe and Grand
Canyon Railway Company, may have had, did not pass
to the plaintiff under and by virtue of its purchase of.
the latter's property. Memphis Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 617; Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v.
Miller, 114 U. S. 176. The Supreme Court held otherwise.
The rule that in case of doubt regarding the meaning
of a territorial statute, this court will lean to the construction placed upon the same by the Supreme Court of
the Territory has no application to this case, as it cannot
be reasonably claimed that any doubt exists of the legislative intent to deny exemption from taxation to companies purchasing railroad property and franchises at
judicial sale. But should doubt be suggested, and the
claim be made that it is such as should incline the court
to lean to the construction given by the court below, then
under the settled rule that doubt must be resolved against
the exemption, the effect is the same as though the legislative intent to deny the exemption were unmistakable,
and the ruling of the court below resolving the doubt in
favor of the exemption was clearly wrong.
Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom Mr. T. J. Norton and
Mr. GardinerLathrop were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTmC
court.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

This is a bill brought by the Railway Company, the
appellee, to restrain the collection of taxes from which it
says that it is exempt. The facts in brief are these: A predecessor of the appellee, the Santa Fe and Grand Canyon
Railroad Company, between August, 1899, and October,
1900, built over fifty-six miles of the road concerned In
July, 1901, this road was sold on foreclosure sale to pur-

TREAT .v. GRAND CANYON RY. CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

chasers who organized the appellee and in August* conveyed the road to it. The new company finished the road
to the edge of the Grand Canyon and laid out stations and
hotel grounds at the end. In 1906 the Territorial Board
undertook to levy the tax complained of. The Supreme
Court held that the appellee was exempt. 12 Arizona,
69; 95 Pac. Rep. 187; 12 Arizona, 117; 100 Pac. Rep. 438.
The railroad company was organized under Act No. 3,
February 8, 1897, of the Territory (Laws 1897, p. 5) which
authorized such corporations to be formed for the purpose
of buying the property of railroads sold on foreclosure,
and to buy.and exercise "all the rights, privileges, franchises, immunities and powers" of their predecessors.
By ยง 7 such corporations were to have all rights, immunities, &c., then or thereafter given to any railroad organized under the general laws; but by ยง 8 it was provided
that the act should not be construed "to give to any corporation created under it, any exemption from taxation
created by any existing or future exemption laws of the
Territory of Arizona." The question does not stand on
this act alone, however, and the cases discussed in Rochester Railway Co. v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236, for by a
later statute of March 16, 1899, No. 68 (Laws 1899, p. 79)
"for the purpose of inducing and encouraging the construction of railroads" it was provided that the "property used or necessary in the construction and operation
of railroads," of roads thereafter constructed, "whether
owned or operated by a person or persons, association or
railway corporation, his their or its successors or assigns,"
should be exempt from all manner of taxation for ten years
from the date of the act. The Supreme Court held that
this exemption was in rem, so to speak, went with the land,
and extended to the assigns of the first road.
No doubt a strong-argument can be made and was made
for a different view, based on the passage before and on
the date of the act of 1897 of statutes like that of 1899.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

But the considerations that prevailed also are cogent and
so obvious as not to need statement. Moreover, the question is not whether the later statute constituted a contract,
Damon v. Hawaii, 194 U. S. 154, 160; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379. The courts of the.
Territory have given to the railroad the rights that it
claims, as against the, territorial authorities seeking to
levy the tax. The only question is whether any sufficient
reason appears for not following the construction given
to a local statute by the territorial court, when that construction is inherently reasonable, is at least the first to
strike the mind, and is one that protects private rights.
It is enough to answer that, on the principle followed so
far as may be by this court, there is no such manifest
error as. to warrant us in reversing the decision below.
Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, 679. English v. Arizona,
214 U. S. 359, 361, 363.
Judgment affirmed.

GANDIA v. PETTINGILL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 97. Argued December 14, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.
In the absence of express malice or excess, publication of actual fats
is not libellous, and in case of mere excess without express malice
the only'liability is for damages attributable to the excess; and refusal of the trial court to charge to this effect is error.
Quwre: whether attributing to a person conduct that is lawful can be

libellous.
The stricter practice is to note the exceptions before the jury retires;
but if all the exceptions are noted in open court after jury returns
and no wrong is suffered, an exception will not be sustained on that

ground.
4 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 383, reversed.

