MAYER v. AM. SECURITY & TRUST CO.
222 U. S.

295

Syllabus.

such as that of patents issued by our Land Department is
sufficient to overthrow the tradition, fortified as it is by
logic and good sense.
Of course, the later decree establishing the will does
not affect the case. That determined only that Kaniu
left all her property to Kalakaua, but not that any particular property belonged to the inheritance. The decree
overruling the demurrer of the defendant to the bill of the
Kapiolani Estate also is relied upon. But as that case has
not passed to a final decree, and the appellant bought the
land in controversy pendente lite, it can stand no better
than its vendor the party to the suit. Mellen v. Moline
Iron Works, 131 U. S. 352, 370 If that case instead of
this had been prosecuted to final decree there was nothing
in its former action to hinder the Supreme Court from
adopting tho principle now laid down, even though it
thereby should overrule an interlocutory decision previously reached. King v. West Virginia, 216 U. S.92, 100,
101. Other details were mentioned in targument, but
nothing more seems to us to need remark.
Decree affirmed.

MAYER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST COMPANY, EXECUTOR OF MAYER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 77. Argued December 5, 1911.-Decided December 18, 1911.
Equitable titles are subject to devise and if not specifically bequeathed,
form part of the residuary estate.
One of the objects of a residuary clause is to gather up unremembered,
as well as uncertain, rights; and the words "all the rest and residue
- of my estate, real, personal-and mixed, which I now possess or which

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

may hereafter be acquired by me" are sufficient to carry an equitable estate.
33 App. D. C. 391, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. S. Worthington and Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg,
with whom Mr. Clarence A. Brandenburg and Mr. F.
Walter Brandenburg were on the brief, for appellant:
A possibility of reverter is not an interest or estate in
land that can be devised or assigned. Vail v. Long Island
R. R. Co., 106 N. Y. 287; Towle v. Remson, 70 N. Y. 309;
De Peyster v. Michael, 6 N. Y. 506; Nicholl v. N. Y. &
Erie R. R. Co., 12 N. Y. 131; Locke v. Hale, 165 Massachusetts, 20; Bouvier v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. R. Co., 67 N. J.
Law, 281; Helms v. Helms, 137 N. Car. 206. See also Ohio
Iron Co. v. Auburn Iron Co., 64 Minnesota, 407; Warner
v. Bennett, 31 Connecticut, 469; Highbee v. Rodeman, 129
Indiana, 247; Berenbroick v. St. Luke's Hospital, 23 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 339; Tiedeman on Real Property, ยง 277; Sexton v. Chicago Storage Co., 129 Illinois, 331; Denver & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. School District No. 22, 14 Colorado, 327; and
see note 60 L. R. A. 762; Church v. Elliott, 65 S. Car. 251.
An equitable interest as defined in 15 Cyc. 1087, is "such
an interest as a court of equity can pursue and appropriate.to the discharge of debts." Certainly this interest
does not fall within this definition. As to the law of Maryland where the property is located, see Iglehart v. Armiger,
1 Bland's Chancery, 519, 524.
The estate could not pass. under will. Upington v. Corrigan, 151 N. Y. 143; Church v. Young, 130 N. Car. 8;
Goodright v. Forrester, 8 East,, 552, 566; Schulenberg v.
Harriman, 21 Wall. 44; Ruch v. Rock Islanid, 97 U. S.
693.
The cases cited in opposition are based on statute and
do not apply to this property.
Under Maryland statutory provision the property was

MAYER v. AM. SECURITY & TRUST CO.
222 U. S.

297

Argument for Appellee.

not such as could pass under the will, under the law as
in force at the time of Mr. Mayer's death.
There is no presumption in favor of an intention on the
part of the testator to. deprive his heir ht law of his real
estate. Such an intent must be clear and free from doubt.
Rizer'v. Perry, 58 Maryland, 121, 137; Bourke v. Boone,
94 Maryland, 477; Hambleton v. Darrington,36 Maryland,
446;Doe v. Underdown, Willes, 293.
The words used in the agreement regarding a reconveyance are practically a direction to reconvey to the heir,
inasmuch as the interest of the testator, before breach,
was not assignable. Locke v. Hale, 165 Massachusetts, 20.
To tie'up the property here involved until appellant
reaches forty-eight years. of age does violence to the rule
of law favoring the early vestinrg of estates. Mercer v.
Safe Lieposit Company, 91 Maryland, 114.
Apt words were not used, and the words used did not
include this possibility for the reason that "estate"
.does not 'include such a possibility. Cole v. Ensor, 3
Maryland, 452.
Mr. Win. F. Mattingly for appellee:
The cases where the dbnor conveys directly to the donee
upon condition and cases of mere possibility of reverter
have no application to the case at bar, yet if the testator's
estate in this property was a contingency coupled with an
interest or a possibility coupled with an interest, and it was
all that and more, then it was devisable and formed part of
the residuary estate. 4 Kent's Comm. 261; Jones v. Roe,
3 Term Rep. 88. See also 2 Williams' SAnuhders, 338k;
Doe v. Wqatherby, 11 East, 322; Williams v. Thomas,

12 East, 141; Hayden v Stoughton, 5 !'.k. 528; Clapp
v. Stoughton, 10 Pink. 463; Austin v. CambridgeportParish,
21 Pick. 215.
Suppose the testator had lived until after October 15,
1908, the trust company would have reconveyed the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

erty to him, or, whether it did or not, the entire title would
have been in him, and would uiidoubtedly have passed
under the residuary clause of the will. See Maryland
Code of 1904, ยง 314.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill for a conveyance to the plaintiff of a parcel
of land to which he claims a right under a trust deed of his
father, Theodore J. Mayer. The case was heard on bill
and answer, the Supreme Court dismissed the bill, and
its decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 33 App.
D. C. 391. The facts are these: On February 5, 1907,
Mayer conveyed the premises to the Washington Loan
and Trust Company and the latter executed a declaration
of trust by which it was to convey them to the George
Washington University "when and at such times as"
the University should comply with certain conditions, by
the purchase of certain other specified land, &c. "In the
event of the failure of the said University to comply with
the terms and conditions of this trust within a reasonable
time after the execution of this instrument, which reasonable time is to be determined by the Trustee, when said
property, so as aforesaid conveyed to the Trustee, is to
be reconveyed to the said Theodore J. Mayer, his heirs
and assigns." The word 'when' in the sentence is superfluous, but the meaning is plain. The reasonable time was
determined and has elapsed, as is agreed by the University
as well as by the Trustee, and the conditions have not been
performed, but in March, 1907, before the breach of condition, Mayer died.
Mayer made his will on February 15, 1907, a few days
after the trust deed and a month before his death. After
pecuniary legacies and a specific devise to the plaintiff of
his residence, its contents, etc., he gave the residue of
his estate to the American Security and Trust Company

MAYER v. AM. SECURITY & TRIST CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in trust to make various payments to the plaintiff at different stated times, and upon his attaining the age of fortyeight years to convey all of the trust fund remaining in
its hands to the plaintiff in fee. Then followed gifts to
the plaintiff's children in the event of his dying before the
testator or before reaching the age of forty-eight, and alternative legacies if he left no children surviving him. The
question is whether the property covered by the trust deed
should be conveyed to the plaintiff now or falls into the.
residue to be held upon the trusts created by the will.
The argument for the appellant is that the grantor,
Mayer, retained a mere possibility of reverter, which was
not devisable, and that if he had more than that still he
did not devise it by his will. But the answer is plain. Of
course the grantee, the Washington Loan and Trust Company, got the legal title in fee, but by its declaration of
trust and its answer it disavowed any beneficial interest,
and if the equitable title was in Mayer it was subject to
devise by him. But it necessarily was either in Mayer or
in the George Washington University, and the courts
below were quite right in holding that all rights of the
University were subject to a condition precedent that
never was fulfilled. The beginning of its rights was to be
by conveyance when and at such time as' the University
should .have made the required purchase. Or, as stated
in another clause not yet quoted, "This declaration of
trust is intended to set forth the terms and conditions
under which the said Chevy Chase property, or the proceeds thereof, is to be conveyed or given to the said George
Washington. University." That it was not given until
those terms and conditions were complied with could not
be said more plainly. We should add that the University
by its answer makes no claim either to the land or to, the
profits between the date of the deed and the loss of its
rights.
Mayer then at his death had a present equitable right to

300 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1911;
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

the land subject only to be defeated by an event that has
not happened, and we see as little ground for doubting
that he disposed of it as there is for denying that he had it.
The residuary clause is in the usual form, "All the rest
and residue of my estate, real, personal and mixed, which
I now possess or which may hereafter be acquired by me";
amply sufficient to carry the equitable estate. No doubt
Mayer thqught that the Chevy Chase property would go
another way, but it manifestly was not certain, and moreover one of the objects of a residuary clause is to gather
up unremembered as well as uncertain rights.
Decree affirmed.

ACME HARVESTER COMPANY v. BEEKMAN
LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 9.

Argued April 25, 1911.-Decided December 18, 1911.

The denial of a right claimed under the judgment of a Federal court
lays the foundation for a review in this court, and where the state
court proceeds to judgment on the ground that bankruptcy proceedings against the defendant had been concluded by denial of adjudication and the injunction against suits in the state court thereby dissolved this court has jurisdiction.
A finding by the state court that bankruptcy proceedings had been

concluded by denial of adjudication does not conclude this court
on writ of error to review the judgment of the state court.
Where the state court bases its jurisdiction entirely on the construction
given a Federal statute by it adversely to contention of plaintiff in
error, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment. Rector v.
Bank, 200 U. S. 405.
The filing of a petition in banliruptcy is a caveat to all the world, and,
in effect, an attachment and injunction. Mueller v. Nugent, 184
U. S. 1, 14.
It is the duty of the bankruptcy court to promptly determine the ques-

