MISSOU'RI &c. RY. CO. v. OLATHE.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the sale of the surveyed coal lands in Alaska'and elsewhere.
The judgment must be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

MISSOURI & KANSAS INTERURBAN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. CITY OF OLATHE, KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 726.

Motion to dismiss. Submitted November 13, 1911.-Decided
December 4, 1911.

Unless it appears from the record that the judgment sought to be reviewed finally determines the cause this court is without jurisdictionWhere the judgment sought to be reviewed affirms the judgment
below but merely sustains the demurrer without 'ismissing the
suit, so that tha cause is left standing in the lower court fdr further
proceedings, it is not a final judgment reviewable by this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Doster, Mr. A. F. Hunt, Jr., Mr. A. M. Harvey and Mr. J. E. Addington, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr..Stephen H. Allen for defendant in 'error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

1By

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES.

Motion to dismiss. This suit was. brought by the Rdilway Company, plaintiff in error, against the City .of
Olathe, Kansas, in the'district court of Johnson County,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

in that State, to recover damages caused by the repeal of
an ordinance authorizing the use of certain streets of the
city for an interurban railway and by the consequent
prevention, until the passage of a new ordinance, of its
construction and operation. The defendant demurred to
the petition upon the ground that it did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The District
Coiirt sustained the demurrer, and its decision was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. And fhis writ
of error is brought.
The record fails to disclose a final judgment. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the lower court, but
this merely sustained the demurrer without dismissing the
suit. The Supreme Court did not direct its dismissal, but
the cause was left standing in the court below for such
proceedings as might be had" according to law after the
decision on the demurrer, either by amendment of the
petition or entry of final judgment.
As it does not appear from the record that the judgment
sought to be reviewed was one which finally determined
the cause, this court is without jurisdiction. Miners' Bank
of Dubuque v. United States, 5 How. 213; McComb, Executor, v. Commissioners of Knox County, 91 U. S. 1; Great
Western Telegraph Company v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339;
Haseltine v. Central Bank of Springfield, 183 U. S. 130.
Dismissed.

