OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

caused it to be enacted. Finally, the convictions which
arise from the fadt of the postponement are made plain
by a report on the bill made to the House of Representatives by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, wherein it was said (Report No. 7641, dated
February 16, 1907, p. 6):
"Owing to the probable necessity of changing in some
instances division points, entailing the removal of employ6s, and to permit ample time to readjust themselves
to the requirements of the law, it is not to become operative for one year after its approval."
For the reasons stated the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Washington must be and it is
Reversed, and the cause will be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

RED "C" OIL MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
BOARD OF AGRICULTURE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 141.

Argued December 21, 22, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

This court will not lightly attribute improper motives to the lawmaking power, and will not, on a mere charge, regard a statute
imposing inspection fees as an act to raise revenue. Ellis v. United
States, 206 U. S. 246.
Prima facie, the charge for inspection in an act otherwise constitutional is reasonable. Western Union Tel. Co. v. New Hope, 187
U. S. 417.
The fact that oil inspection laws have been passed in a majority of
the States shows that oil is a proper subject for police regulation.
In lhis case this court cannot conclude that the charge for inspecting
oil, provided by the North Carolina oil inspection law of 1909, is

RED "C" OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.
222 U. S.

381

Statement of the Case.

so seriously in excess of what is necessary for the object designed
to be. effected as to justify the imputation of bad faith and the
conclusion that the law is one for revenue and not merely for inspection. Patpsco Guano Co. v. South Carolina, 171 U. S. 354.
This court cannot determine what the actual operation of a statute
will be after its enactment by going outside the record and taking
judicial knowledge of what has happened since the filing of the
transcript lere.
If the inspection fees exacted under a state statute average largely
more than enough to pay expenses, the presumption is that the
State will reduce them to conform to the constitutional authority
to impose fees solely to reimburse for expense of inspection.
What relief shall be accorded to one who may sustain iijury by the
failure of a State to protect his rights under the Constitution, cannot be determined before there has been stLch failure.
A requirement by the legislature that illuminating oils must be safe,
pure, and afford a satisfactory light, establishes a sufficient primary
standard, and remitting to the proper state board the establishment of rules and regulations to determine what oils measure up to
those standards does not amount to a delegation of legislative power.
Where one complains that regulations promulgated under legislative
authority by a state board are unreasonable and oppressive, he
should seek relief by applying to that board to modify them.
A state police statute cannot be declared invalid because in the opintion o*f this court it does not accord with sound policy. The appeal
for redress must be to the law-making power.

IN the year 1909, North Carolina passed an act for the
inspection, under the control of the Board of Agriculture,
of all kerosene or other illuminating oils sold, or offered
for sale, in the State. (March 8, 1909, Pub. Laws 1909,
c. 554, p. 911.) The object of such inspection was' declared to be in order to determine the safety and value of
such oils for illuminating purposes. A charge of one-half
cent per gallon was fixed,'which the law declared should
be paid to the commissioner of agriculture for the purpose
of defraying expenses connected with the inspection,
testing and analyzing of oils in the State. It was provided that the act should go into effect on July 1, 1909.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222 U. S.

Two days after, viz., on July 3, 1909, this suit was commenced by the appellant, the Red "C" Oil Manufacturing Company, a corporation of the State of Maryland.
The defendants named were the Board of Agriculture
of' North Carolina and the .members of the board, and the
object of the bill was to restrain the enforcement of*the
act referred to because it was charged to be not a proper
exertion of the police power of the State, and, besides,
was asserted to be repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States.
The bill averred that the complainant was a large shipper of illuminating oils from the State of Maryland into
the State of North Carolina, and that it did an extensive
business in North Carolina in dealing in such oil. The
provisions of the assailed act were set out in extenso, as
also the terms of an act of the General Assembly approved
on March 9, 1909 (Pub. Laws 1909, c. 441, p. 742), which
forbade the collection of a tax upon dealers in oils, authorized by § 58 of the Revenue Act (March 8, 1909, Pub.
Laws 1909, c. 438, p. 674), passed at the same session,
"from any persons, dealers or corporations paying the
taxes imposed under the inspection law enacted at the
present session of the General Assembly, entitled 'An
act to provide for the inspection of illuminating oils and
fluids;' Provided, however, if the said Oil Inspection Act
should be held invalid, section fifty-eight, Revenue Act,
shall remgin in full effect." In the preamble of this latter
act it was recited that the "inspection tax" was much
greater than the "tax" imposed under § 58 of the Revenue
Act, and that "it is not the purpose of the General Assembly that the said taxes shall be cumulative." In addition to averring the appointment of inspectors by the
Board of Agriculture, and the purpose of the board to enforce the collection of the inspection taxes, there were set
forth the regulations adopted by the board under the authority of the statute.

RED "C"
222 U. S.

OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

383

Statement of the Case.

The particulars by which it was asserted the statutory
charge was shown to be unlawful may be thus summarized: The charge or "tax" was not for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the inspection of oil, but was imposed for revenue upon the goods of complainant shipped
into the State of North Carolina from the State of Maryland, and was hence in conflict with the commerce clause
and the Fourteenth Amendment. The law, it was charged,
was not a police regulation, sifice an inspection of oil
"for value and luminosity" was not within the competency of legislative action, and the public safety was
not concerned, since illuminating oils, as the result of
modern methods of manufacture, were no longer explosive.
The charge or tax, it was averred, was more than double
the amount necessary for the inspection proposed, and
would realize annually a surplus for the state treasury
of more .than $20,000. It was further charged that the
act fixed no standard for the guidance of the Board of
Agriculture, but in effect arbitrary powers were conferred
upon the board, and, indeed, legislative authority had been
delegated to it. The power thus conferred, it was also
alleged, had been exerted in an arbitrary manner, and tests
prescribed which were not necessary "in order to procure
the. safety of oil, to protect the people from the sale of
oils which are dangerous." Certain of the regulations
promulgated by the board were also assailed as being uncertain, unreasonable, illegal and oppressive.
On the filing of the bill an order was entered temporarily
restraining the defendants from enforcing, as against 'the
complainant, the statute and the rules and regulations
of the board thereunder. The restraining order was subsequently amended by requiring the complainant, "pending the final determination of this cause," to "pay the
one-half cent per gallon upon all illuminating oils sold
by it in the State, as prescribed in said act." The defendants jointly and severally answered the b~ill, and took

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222 U. S.

issue upon all the matters alleged in the complaint. As
regards the allegation that the inspection fee was unnecessarily high and would yield a large surplus over the
expenses, the defendants said:
"Defendants say that they have made no estimate
that any excess may be left after paying all the proper
and necessary expenses of inspection, and these defendants say that they have no means of actually approximating the amount that the tax of one-half cent per gallon
will yield, or the expenses of equipping and maintaining
a competent inspection force and department. That the
legislature thought that one-half cent a gallon would be
necessary to pay the expenses of inspection, and thee
defendants are informed and believe, and therefore aver,
that this is as low an inspection tax as there is to be found
in any State having oil inspection laws, and lower than
the taxes in a great many of the States. In some States
there is a graduated scale of taxation of more than onehalf cent for small quantities and less than one-half, cent
for large quantities. The said act expressly provides, in
§ 6, that the Commissioner of Agriculture shall include in"
his report to the General Assembly an account of the expenses under this act. The said act also provides that all
money paid for inspection taxes shall be kept by the State
Treasurer as a distinct fund to be styled, 'The Oil Inspection Fund.' At the end of one year, it can be seen exactly
what the inspection costs and how much is paid for it by
dealers in oil, and until it shall appear that said tax is excessive, a charge, to that effect, by complaint, is premature
and ill-considered."
Both parties filed affidavits in support of their respective claims. The matter was heard upon a motion for
an injunction upon the bill, answer and affidavits just
referred to. Elaborately examining all the contentions,
the court (172 Fed. Rep. 695), concluded that the complainant was not entitled to relief by injunction, and that

RED "C"
222 U. S.

OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

385

Argument for Appellant.

as respects the other relief asked the bill should be dismissed. A final decree was thereupon entered and this appeal was then taken.
Mr. Robert W. Winston, with whom Mr. Chas. B. Aycock was on the brief, for appellant:
This legislation violates the commerce clause.
The one great object in the adoption of the Constitution, was to keep the commercial intercourse among the
States free from all invidious or partial restraint. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 9.
By whatever name called, the attempt by a State to
tax interstate commerce is void. Corporation Tax Cases,
220 U. S. 160;.Galveston Railroad v. Texas, 210 U. S. 1.
The power to tax involves the power to destroy.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Wilkerson v.
Robner, 140 U. S. 545.
An habitual and continual levying and collecting of
taxes for inspection purposes far in excess of the amount
necessary, *and the covering of such taxes into a state
treasury, is quite conclusive that the law was passed to
raise revenue, and not for inspection purposes. Postal
Telegraph Cable Co. v. New Hope, 192 U. S. 55.
Under the guise of inspection laws, a system of interstate tariff taxation has arisen and States have acted under
a misconception of the Patapsco Guano Case, 171 U. S.
345, to such an extent that state governments are largely
operated upon funds derived from illegal inspection laws.
Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17.
As North Carolina manufactures no oil, it is proceeding
under the guise of aa inspection act to tax oils from other
States. That the act does not on its face discriminate
against oil from sister States makes no difference. Interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all. Robbins v. Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; and see 135 Nor. Car. 520.
All statutes which relate to the same subject-matter
VOL. ccxxi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

must be taken to be one system and so construed. Lord
Bacon, 3d Rule, Vol. 6, 382; State v. Bell, 3 Iredell, 509;
State v. Melton, Busbee's Law, 49.
This legislation was really a tax and an attempt to
raise larger revenue, and not for the purposes of inspection. This appears by the caption.
The preamble is the key to open the understanding of a
statute. Coosaw Min. Co. v. S'outh Carolina, 144 U. S.
550; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610.
A State cannot make a law designed to raise money
to support paupers, etc., an inspection law within the constitutional meaning of that word by calling it so in the
title. Postal Tel. Appeal, 192 U. S. 55; New York v. Compagnie Gen. Trans. Co., 107 U. S. 759.
Grossly unreasonable inspection fees render the act
void and unmask the same, diselosing the real intention
to tax, to raise revenue, and not to inspect. Passenger
Cases, 7 How. 819. See for other instances where inspection laws have been declared revenue laws: Brimmer v.
Redman, 138 U. S. 79; A. F. Co. v. Board of Agriculture,
43 Fed. Rep. 610; Hannibal R. R. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465.
Postal Tel. Co. Case, 192 U. S. 64; Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27.
North Carolina stands alone among the States of the
Union in not having a specified standard of safety for
oil, but has delegated this whole question to an auxiliary
board, to wit: The Board of Agriculture. A statute which
delegates a discretionary power to fix the rule by which
taxes shall be adopted, or rights measured, is unconstitutional. Commerce Clause, Prentice and Egen, 311.
The legislature itself ought to lay down the test, which
ought to be defined by general rules. Freund, Police
Power, par. 649; Field v. Clark, .143 U. S. 649; United
States v. Keokuk Railroad,45 Fed. Rep. 178.
The particular exercise of police power must tend in a
degree that is perceptible to secure some object of the

RED "C"
222 U. S.

OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

387

Argument for Appellant.

proper exercise of police power and the court must be able
to see that the means adopted have a reasonable relation
to the ends desired. 145 N. Y. 39. See also Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. If the act is intended to raise revenue
it is not valid. Willis v. Standard Oil Co., 50 Minnesota,
280.
Where visibly poor quality affects neither health nor
safety, the police power cannot interfere. Freund, Police
Power, § 279; see also 171 U. S. 18 and 30; Harmon v.
State, 66 Oh. St. 249; Matthews v. Murphey, 23 Kentucky,
750; Mayor of Baltimore v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 217; In
re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526.
In Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, a primary
standard for tea had been established by Congress; in
Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501, the standard had been
fixed by the legislature at which oil should flash; in United
States v. Grimaud,220 U. S. 506, Congress could not in the
nature of -things designate a fixed standard as to what
lands might be grazed and hence delegated this duty to the
commissioner. For other cases in which delegation of
general power has been held unconstitutional, see C. W. &
Z. R. Co. v. Clinton County, 1 Oh. St. 88; Adams v. Burgh,
37L. R. A. 157; O'Neill v. American Fire Ins. Co., 26 L.
R. A. 715; Anderson v. Manchester Fire Ins. Co., 28 L. R.
A. 609.
Except where authorized by the Constitution, as in
respect to municipalities, the legislature cannot delegate
legislative power; cannot confer on any body or person the
power to determine what shall be law. The legislature
only shall determine this. State v. Young, 29 Minnesota,
551; Ex parte Cox, 63 California, 21; Port Eureka Harbor
Comrs. v. Excelsior Redwood Co., 88 California, 491; State,
Marshallv. Cadwalader,36 N. J. L. 283; State v. Armstrong,
3 Sneed, 635; Barto v. Himrod, 8 N. Y. 483; Kosciusko v.
Slomberg, 68 Mississippi, 469; Hannibal & St. J. R. Co. v.
Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Copcutt v. Yonkers Board of Health,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

222 U. S.

140 N. Y. 1; Re Smith, 146 N. Y. 68; State v. Speyer, 67
Vermont, 502;. State v. Fond du Lac, 63 Wisconsin, 234.
The act also violates the Fourteenth Amendment of
Constitution.
Mr. T. W. Bickett, Attorney General of the State of
North Carolina, for appellees:
The suggestion that, under the guise of doing one thing,
the General Assembly is attempting to do another, will
not be considered by this court. The courts are not disposed, neither are they at liberty, to impute improper
motives to the laimaking power of the Government.
Black on Constitutional Law, § 41; Atchinson &c. Ry. Co.
v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Florida&c. Ry. Co. v. Reynolds,
183 U. S. 471; Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S. 246; The
Chinese Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581.
Complainants themselves concede that if the act is
intended in good faith to protect the public from danger or
from being imposed upon, and is reasonably calculated to
afford such protection, it is well within the police power of
the State. Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; McLean v.
Denver &c. Ry., 203 U. S. 38; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.
257; Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211; Waters-Pierce Oil
Co. v. Deselms, 212 U. S. 159.
Oil inspection laws have three times been. before this
court, and none of them has been condemned. Patterson
v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211;
Watprs-Pierce Oil Co. v. Deselms, 212 U. S. 159.
In view of the opinions of oil expert chehnists, and in
view of .the legislation of thirty-five States upon the subject, we submit that the contention that the inspection of
illuminating oil is not a permissible exercise of the police
power of the State finds its only support in the vigor of its
asseveration.
The inspection tax of one-half cent per gallon is not

RED "C" OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.
222 U. S.

389

Opinion of the Court.

so excessive upon its face as to warrant the court in declaring it unconstitutional and void. McLean v. Denver &
R. G. Ry., 203 U. S. 38.
No facts are set forth in the bill showing that the tax
is excessive, and it seems that the charge is based upon
the alleged fact that the defendants estimate that they
will be able to turn into the State Treasury $20,000 per
year. These allegations in the bill are met by a complete
denial by the defendants, who say they have made no
estimate at all.
The General Assembly cannot be charged with bad
faith for adopting a tax as low as the lowest known to
exist. Patapsco Guano Case, 171 U. S. 354.
The inspection act is not unconstitutional and void
as an attempt to delegate legislative powers to the Board
of Agriculture.
The most enlightened and efficient governments on
this earth are those in which the largest amount of discretion is vested in the constitutional departments of the
Government; and the highly technical plea of the complainant in this case is counter to the most advanced
thought of the times. 6 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 1021;
Buttfield v. Stranahan,192 U. S. 470, 532; Locke's Appeal,
13 Am. Rep. 720; Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1;
Isenhour v. State, 157 Indiana, 517; St. Louis Railway Co.
v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Union Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U. S. 364. This question has been thoroughly considered, and the authorities exhaustively reviewed, in
the recent case of United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506, and appellees' contention sustained.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIC' WHITE, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In view of the full reference to and the review of decided cases made by the district judge in the opinion by

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

him delivered, we content ourselves with a comparatively
brief discussion of the questions pressed at bar.
These all come to two propositions, which axe thus
stated by counsel:
"1. That the North Carolina Oil Inspection Act is
unconstitutional and void in that, under the guise of
exercising a police power, the General Assembly of North
Carolina is really attempting to impose a revenue tax
upon interstate commerce.
"2?' That the said inspection act is unconstitutional,
in that the General Assembly of North Carolina has
attempted to delegate to the Board of Agriculture legislative powers."
As to the first pr'position, we append in the margin
a clear and adequate summary of the act made by the
judge below (p. 696): 1
1The -act provides:
S.c. 1. "That all kerosene, or other illuminating oils, sold or offered for sale in this State, shall be subject to inspection and test to
determine the safety and value for illuminating purposes." All manufacturers, wholesalers and jobbers, before selling or offering for sale, in
this State, any kerosene, or other oil, for illuminating purposes, are required to file with the Commissioner of Agriculture a statement,
showing that they desire to do business in the State, and to furnish the
name or brand of the vil, or oils, which they .desire to sell, with the
names and address of the manufacturer, and that such oil will comply
with the requirements of the law.
SEC. 2. Power is conferred upon the Commissioner of Agriculture
to collect samples of any illuminating oil offered for sale in this State
and have the same analyzed. The inspection of oil, as authorized by
the act, is to be under the direction of the Board of Agriculture, which
is authorized "to make all necessary rules and regulations for the inspection of such oil and to adopt standards of safety, purity or absence
from objectionable substances and luminosity when not in conflict with
this act, and which they may deem necessary to provide the people of
the State with satisfactory illuminating oil."
The Board of Agriculture is required to appoint oil inspectors not
exceeding, in number, one from each Congressional District, whose
compensation shall not exceed one thousand dollars a vear and ex-

RED " C" OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.
222 U. S.

391

Opinion of the Court.

The bill, as we have stated, was filed when the statute
had been in force but two days and when of necessity
the result of its operations was conjectural. We are
asked now to hold that, although the General Assembly
declared in the statute that the charge or tax authorized
to be imposed was made "for the purpose of defraying
the expenses connected with the inspection, testing and
analyzing of oils in this State," the real purpose of the
legislature was to levy a tax for revenue in violation of
the commerce clause of the Constitution. Reading the
statute as an entirety, or in connection with the supplemental legislation of March 9, 1909, we find no adequate
reason for imputing to the General Assembly of North
Carolina an attempt to do one thing under the guise or
pretense of doing another. The mere designation of the
exaction as a tax is not sufficient to warrant.the deduction
penses. They are given power to examine all barrels, tanks, or other
vessels containing kerosene or other illuminating oils, to see that they
are properly tagged, and shall, as directed, collect and test samples of
oil offered for sale in different sections of the State, and, when instructed, collect and send samples to the Department of Agriculture
for examination.
SEC. 3. "For the purpose of defraying the expenses connected with
the inspection, testing and analyzing oils in this State there shall be
paid to the Commissioner a charge of one-half cent per gallon which
payment shall be made before delivery to agents, dealers or consumers
in this State." Provision is made for attaching to each barrel, tank,
tank car, and other containers a tag or stamp to be furnished by the
Commissioner of Agriculture showing that the tax has been paid.
When oil is shipped in tank cars or other large containers, the manufacturer or jobber shall give notice to the Commissioner of Agriculture
of every shipment, with the name and -address of the persoi, company
or corporation to whom it is sent, and the number of gallons, on the
day the shipment is made.
SEc. 4. "All moneys received under the provisions of this act shall
be paid into the State Treasury and kept as a distinct fund to be
styled 'The Oil Inspection Fund.' All checks or orders in payment for
tags or stamps shall be made payable to the State Treasurer. The
Commissioner of Agriculture is authorized to draw out of said fund,

OCTOBER TERM. 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

that the charge authorized for the inspection was not one
really for such purpose. We cannot lightly attribute
improper motives to the law-making power. Florida &c.
Ry. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471; Ellis v. United States,
206 U. S. 246. Putting out of view, therefore, questions
of motive, two subsidiary contentions remain, viz., a, that
oil is not a proper subject of inspection; and b, that the
tax in question is so excessive on its face as to be unconstitutional. The conceded fact that in thirty-five States
of the Union oil inspection laws are in force is sufficient
to adversely dispose of the first of these contentions. As
stated by the court below (p. 705):
"While there is much diversity of opinion in respect
to the danger of explosion from the use of kerosene oil
and of the power to ascertain its illuminating capacity, it is
evident that the question has not so far passed beyond the
domain of debate, that the Legislature may not subject it
upon his warrant, such sums as may be necessary to pay all expenses
incurred in connection with this act including salary to oil chemist, or
chemists, cost of inspection, blanks," etc.
SEC. 5. "The State Treasurer shall, on the first day of June and
December of each year turn into the general fund of. the State all
moneys of the oil fund in his hand in excess of the amount drawn out
by the Commissioner of Agriculture for expenses."
SEc. 6. The Commissioner of Agriculture is required to include in
his report to the General Assembly an account of the operations and
expenses under the act.
SEc. 7. Provides: that, whenever complaint is made to the Department of Agriculture in regard to the illuminating qualities of any oil
sold in this State, the Commissioner shall cause a sample of said oil or
oils complained of to be procured, and have the same thoroughly
analyzed and tested as to safety and illuminating qualities. If such
analysis or other tests shall show that the oil is either unsafe or of
inferior illuminating quality, its sale shall be forbidden and report of
the result or results shall be sent to the party making the complaint
and to the manufacturer of such oil.
The remaining sections prescribe penalties for violation of the provisions of the law. The act went into effect July 1, 1909.

RED "C"
222 U.S.

OIL CO. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

393

Opinion of the Court.

to reasonable inspection before permitting its sale in the
State. The court cannot say that such a law has no reasonable relation to the public safety or welfare."
The contention that the tax is so ex6essive on its face
as to conclusively evidence the unconstitutionality of the
burden, if imposed as a mere inspection charge, is, we
think, also without merit. Primafacie the charge must
be deemed to be reasonable. Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. New Hope, 187 U. S. 419. Again, as said by the
court below (p. 710):
"It appears from an examination of the various oil
inspection laws in force in the United States that the
charges for inspection vary from one-half to one and
one-half cents per gallon, and that in States wherein population and other conditions are similar to those in this
State the charge is about the same as that fixed by the
act."

Looking at the elements which may have possibly
entered into the calculation of the General Assembly as
to what would be a reasonable inspection charge, we cannot, to quote from the opinion in the Patapsco Guano
Case, Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina, 171 U. S.
354, "conclude that the charge is so seriously in excess
of what is necessary for the objects designed to be effected,
as to justifythe imputation of bad faith and change the
character of the act."
In disposing of the.contention just stated we are not at
liberty to travel outside of the record and take judicial
notice of the operation of the act since the transcript of
record was filed in this court. We here reiterate what was
said in the case last cited (p. 354): "If the receipts are
found to average largely more than enough to pay the
expenses, the presumption would be that the legislature
would moderate the charge." If the trial made of the
act establishes the fact to be as asserted, that the exaction
in question is excessive, the presumption is that in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

orderly conduct of the public business of the State the
necessary correction will be made to cause the act to conform to the authority possessed, which is to impose a fee
solely to recompense the State for the expenses properly
incurred in enforcing the authorized inspection. What
relief should be awarded in the event the legislature of
North Carolina failed in its positive duty in this particular
is not a question open for consideration upon this record,
as no such failure of duty on the part of the legislature
had occurred or could possibly have happened when this
suit was commenced, a few days after the passage of the
act.

The remaining contention is that the act is repug-ant
to the state constitution because it attempts to delegate
to the Board of Agriculture the exercise of legislative
powers. The -legislative requirement was that the illuminating oils furnished in North Carolina should be safe,
pure and afford a satisfactory light, and it was left to the
Board of Agriculture to determine what oils would measure
up to these standards. We think a sufficient primary
standard was established, and that the claim that legislative powers were delegated is untenable. Buttfield v.
Stranahan,192 U. S. 470, 492; Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & S. Ry.
Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506.
We have not attempted to enumerate the objections
urged against the rules and regulations adopted by the
Board of Agriculture. The court below was clearly right
when it observed that if, as the complainant alleged, the
standard of safety fixed by the board was unreasonably
high, or the method of testing oil unsatisfactory and not
such as was in general use, or the regulations in other
respects were unjust or oppressive, it should seek relief
by applying to the Board of Agriculture to modify them.
A law cannot be declared invalid because in the opinion

ARAN v. ZURRINACH.
222 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of the court it does not accord with sound policy. The
appeal for redress in such. case must be to the law-making
power.

Decree affirmed without prejudice.

ARAN v. ZURRINACH.
ERROR TO THE -DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 146.

Submitted December 22, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

Under the act of. April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 85, this court cannot
review a .judgment of the District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico where the amount in controversy is less than five thousand
dollars, unless the validity or interpretation of an act of Congress is
brought in question, or a.right claimed thereunder is denied.
Not every mere question of irregularity in applying the law of the
United States arising in the court below confers a right of review
on this court which otherwise would not exist; and where, as in thi
case, there is generaliik of statement and absence of specification to
sustain the objections raised, in regard to qualifications and drawing
of jurors in Porto Rico and the application of the Federal statutes
thereto, the questions raised will be regarded as too frivolous to
sustain jurisdiction, and the writ of error will be dismissed.
THE

facts are-stated in the opinion.

Mr. FrancisH. Dexter for plaintiffs in error:
The panel of the jury summoned to try this cause was
not drawn from a box containing the names of three hundred qualified jurors.
The said panel was not drawn and the names of jurors
constituting the same were not placed in the box in the
manner required by the act of Congress of June 30, 1879,

