UNITED STATES v. STEVER.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

ercise of jurisdiction. Indeed, such a course would scarcely
-have been respectful to the State court, after its ruling
upon the-point of jurisdiction had been made."
If,. on the other hand, he had thereafter invoked the

court's jurisdiction in his own behalf, he would not have
been permitted later to deny it. Texas & Pac. Ry. v.
Eastin, 214 U. S. 153; Garrozi v. Dastas, 204 U. S. 64, 73;
C. & 0. Ry. v. McDonald, 214 U. S. 191.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED- STATES v. STEVER.
ERROR -TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR
. THE, WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 448. Argued October 20, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
Congress will.not be supposed to make the same offense indictable
and punishable under either of two distinct provisions under which
the procedure and the penalties are different.
Where general words follow words descriptive of particular actions
the&should, unless clearly manifested to the contrary, be construed
as applicable to cases or matters of like kind. vith those described
by theparticular words.
Sections 3894 and 5480, Rev. Stat., each apply to different offenses
and are to be construed as legislation in pani materia.
Section 3894; Rev. Stat., relates particularly to lottery schemes, and
the general words "concerning schemes devised for the purpose of
obtaining .money or property by false pretenses" are limited io
schemes having a similitude io lotteries and other like schemes
.particularly described and do not extend to the general schemes to
defraud covered by § 5480, Rev. Stat.

THEr facts, which involve the construction of §§ 3894
and 5480,.Rev. Stat., and what constitute offenses thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendants in Error

222 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States:
Upon this writ of error the Government seeks only to
have reviewed the correctness of the court's ruling as to the
scope of § 3894, and the validity of the first count. Section 3894 is not limited either in its terms or by necessary
implication to lottery schemes.
The clause "or concerning schemes devised for the purpose of obtaining money or property under false pre-.
tenses" is grammatically completely separated from, and
has no necessary relation to, the preceding clause, "concerning any lottery, so-called gift concert, or other similar
enterprise," etc. The statute on its face indicates that
Congress was prohibiting the carriage in the mail and the
delivery through the post office of two distinct classes of
matter.
The prohibition in § 3894 is of the carriage in the mails
and the delivery through the post office of matter concerning a peculiar class of frauds, to wit, "schemes devised for
the purpose of obtaining money or property under false
pretenses." Section 5480 is intended primarily to reach
any person who "having devised or intending to devise
any scheme of artifice to defraud," etc., uses the mails in
furtherance of such scheme. The prohibitio in § 3894
extends to anyone, whether he had devised the scheme to
defraud or not, or whether he was connected with the
postal service or not. Section 5480 is confined to the punishment of devisers of a scheme or artifice to defraud.
Mr. W. M. Smith and Mr. J. S. McKenney for defendants in error:
Section 3894, Rev. Stat., only includes, by proper construction, lottery schemes. United States v. Sauer, 88 Fed.
Rep. 249; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 570; Nichols
v. State, 26 N. E. Rep. 839.
Where words of a particular description in a statute are

UNITED STATES v. STEVER.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

followed by general words that are not speoific and limited,
unless there be a clear manifestation of h contrary purpose, the general words are to be construed as applicable
to persons or things, or cases of like kind as those desighated by the particular words. Lewis' Sutherland Stat.
Const., § 443; Alexander v' Alexander, 5 Cranch, 1, 7;
United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556-564; Atkins v. DisintegratingCo., 18 Wall. 272, 301; Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S.
682-688; Stockdale v. Insurance Co., 20 Wall. 323; United
States v. Garrettson,42 Fed. Rep. 22; Bishop on Statutory
Crimes, § 246 et seq.; Chapman.v. Forsythe; 2 How. '202;
Woolsey v. Cade, 54 Alabama, 385; Amos v. The State, 73
Alabama, 501; Bishop on Statutory Crimes (2d ed.), §§ 119,
193, 194, 218, 220, 227.
Sections 3894 and 5480 were enacted at the same time
and must be read together, and it must be presumed that
they will be harmonious; they cannot be so blended as to
constitute an offense not contained in either, considered
separately. United States v. Sauer, 88 Fed. Rep. 240;
McDaniel v. United States, 87 Fed. Rep. 324.
The count is bad, in charging "Money" instead of
"Property." This count is also bad for duplicity, as it
charges both- causing to be deposited for mailing, and.
causing to be delivered, etc. Bates v. State, 124 Wisconsin, 612; United States v. Conrad, 59 Fed. Rep. 458; Horner v. United States, 44 Fed. Rep. 677; S. C., 143 U. S.
207.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to review a judgment quashing an
indictment as not stating an offense triable in the Western
District of. Kentucky. The indictment contained two
counts. The first is drawn to bring. the offense within
§ 3894, Revised Statutes, as amended, and the second is
based upon § 5480, Revised Statutes, and is for a conspir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

acy to commit the offense charged in the first count. The
Government now concedes that the latter count states no
offense within the Western District of Kentucky and withdraws the. assignments of error relating to the judgment
quashing it.
The count to be considered charges, in substance, that
the defendants, on April 20, 1908, in the State of Iowa, devised a certain scheme for the purpose of obtaining money,
etc., "by and under false pretenses," from various persons, among others, certain persons named, residing at
Colesburg, within the jurisdiction of the court, to be effected by means of the United States mail through correspondence with them. The scheme, summarily stated,
was to be effected by inducing persons, who should read
their advertisements offering high grade cattle for sale,
to open correspondence with them. That then the defendants were, through the mail, to make false and fraudulent representations as to the character of the cattle they
offered for sale, and thereby induce such correspondents to
come and inspect the cattle at Fairfield, Iowa, and that
after a sale of cattle so inspected, were to substitute inferior cattle in the place of those inspected and sold. It is
then averred that the defendants succeeded in opening up
correspondence with certain persons at Colesburg, Kentucky, and that in furtherance of said scheme and for the
purpose of obtaining money under false pretenses they,
the defendants, on April 20, 1908, "unlawfully did knowingly and fraudulently deposit and cause to be deposited
in the mail . . . at Fairfield, Iowa; and did then
and there knowingly cause to be sent by said mail of the
United States a certain letter to be conveyed and delivered by said mail of the United*States at Colesburg, in
the State of Kentucky, and in the western district thereof,"
to be delivered to persons there addressed and residing,
which letter was calculated to accomplish the scheme intended, and which said letter the defendants are charged

UNITED STATES v. STEVER.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as "having caused to be delivered by mail to the person
addressed."
For convenience we set out in the margin §§ 3894 and
5480, Revised Statutes, as amended.'
3894. No letter, postal-card, or circular concerning any lottery, so-called gift concert, or other similar enterprise offering prizes
dependent-upon lot or chance, or concerning schemes devised for the
purpose of obtaining money or property under false pretenses, and no
list of the drawings at any lottery or similar scheme, and no lottery
ticket or part thereof, and no check, draft, bill, money, postal note, or
money-order for the purchase of any ticket, tickets, or part thereof, or
of any share or any chance in any such lottery or gift enterprise, shall
be carried in the mail or delivered at or through any post-office or
branch thereof, or by any letter carrier, nor shall any newspaper, circular, pamphlet, or publication of any kind containing any advertisement of any lottery or gift enterprise of any kind offering prizes dependent upon lot or chance, or containing any list of prizes awarded at
the drawings of any such lottery or gift enterprise, whether said list is
of any part or of all of the drawing, be carried in the mail or delivered
by any postmaster or letter-carrier. Any person who shall knowingly
deposit or cause to be deposited, or who shall knowingly send or cause
to be sent, anything to be conveyed or delivered by mail in violation of
this section, or who shall knowingly cause to be delivered by mail anything herein forbidden to be carried by mail, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not more than one
year, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each offense. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this section may be proceeded
against by information or indictment and tried and punished, either
in the district at which the unlawful publication was mailed or to
which it is carried by mail for delivery according to the direction
thereon, or at which it is caused to be delivered by mail to the person
to whom it is addressed.
SEC. 5480. If'any person having devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or tosell, dispose of, loan, exchange, alter,
give away,, or distribute, ' supply, or furnish, or procure for unlawful
use any counteifeit or spurious coin, bank notes, paper money, or any
obligation or security of the United States or of any State, Territory,
municipality, company, corporation, or person, or anything represented to be or intimated or held out to be such counterfeit or spurious
articles, or any scheme or artifie to obtain money by or through cor1 SEC.

17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

The last clause of § 3894 provides that an offense against
any of the provisions of the section "may be proceeded
against ., . . either in the district at which the unfawful publication was mailed, or to which it is carried by
mail for delivery according to the direction thereon, or at
which it is caused to be delivered by mail -to the person to
whom it is addressed."
The, claim is that an indictment lies in the Westerii District of Kentucky, because that is the district in which the
defendants caused the letter mentioned "to be delivered
by mail" to the person addressed.
The. Government has suggested that there is a distinction at common lawbetween a false pretense and an inrespondence, by what. is commonly called the "sawdust swindle," or
"counterfeit money fraud," or by dealing or pretending to deal in
what' is commonly called ."green articles," "green coin," "bills,"
"paper goods," "spurious Treasury notes-" "United States goods,"
"'green eigars," or any other names on terms intended to be understood as relating to such counterfeit or spurious articles, to be effected
by either opening or intending to open correspondence or .communication with any person, whether resident within or outside of the United
States, by means of thePost-Office Establishment of the United
States, or by inciting such other person or any person to open communication with the person so devising or intending, shall, in and for
executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, place or cause
to be placed, any letter, packet, writing, *circular, pamphlet, or advertisement-in any post-office, branch post-office, or street or hotel
letter-box Qf the United States, to be sent or delivered by the said
"post-office establishment,. or shall take or receive any such therefrom,
such persoti so misusing the post-office establishment shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
and by imprisonment for not more than eighteen months, or by both
such punishments, at the discretion of the court. The indictmefit, informaion,'or complaint may severally charge offenses to the number
-of three when committed within the same six calendar months; but
the court thereupon shall -give a single sentence, and shall proportion
the punishment especially to the degree in which the abuse of the postoffice establishment enters-as an instrument into such fraudulent
scheme and device.

,UNITED STATES v. STEVER.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dictable cheat or fraud. It may be conceded that at the
common law a false pretense is not a promise, but a fraudulent and false representation of an existing or past fact,
designed to induce one to part with money or goods.
Bishop on Criminal Law, 6th ed., §§ 415, 419, and cases,
English and American, there cited.
Whether the facts averred in this count constitute a
scheme to obtain goods or money by a common-law false
pretense may admit of grave doubt. But whether that be
so or not, it would require very subtle distinction to conceive of a use of the mail to promote a scheme to obtain
property or money by means of false pretenses which
would not also be a "scheme or artifice to defraud" within
the plain meaning of § 5480. For the purpose of the present discussion it is not important whether the pleader has
characterized the scheme described as a false pretense or
as "a scheme or artifice to defraud," since in either case
a use of the mail prohibited by § 5480 is shown. That
section was construed by this court, in Durland v. United
States, 161 U. S. 306, 313, as "including everything designed to defraud by representations as to the past or
present-or suggestions and promises as to the future."
If, then, this indictment is also maintainable under
§ 3894, it must be because we are forced. to conclude that
Congress, when it revised the statutes, intended to make
the use of the mails to effect a scheme to defraud indictable
and punishable under either of two distinct provisions,
and that the district attorney might elect as to which he
would proceed under. Such a supposition is not to be
lightly adopted. To so conclude would result in the anomaly of an offense created and punished by two distinct
enactments. Under -the one the accused may be proceeded against in a district where he could not be prosecuted under the other. The procedure under one differs
in some- important particulars from that admissible under
the-other, and the accused is subject to a-measure of pun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

ishmen~t under one not possible under the other. Thus,
under § 3894 an indiciment will lie in the district in which
the defendant caused the letter to be delivered by the
mail to the person addressed. That is not the case under
§ 5480. Under section. 3894, one may be imprisoned not
longer than one year, while under the other he pnay be
imprisoned for eighteen months. Under § 3894, he is subject to indictment for any number of violations. Under
the other the indictment may only charge offenses to the
number of three committed within the same six calendar
months.
No such purpose can be fairly said to have actuated
Congress. The two sections are intended to prevent the
use of the mail for certain purposes. The one applies to
the use of the mail for the purpose of promoting lotteries or
other like schemes of chance. The other is intended to
prohibit the use of the mail to carry on schemes of general
fraud,-the language being "any scheme or artifice to defraud." A scheme to defraud by means of false pretenses
is, as we have seen, "a scheme or artifice to defraud,"
within the plain meaning, and purpose of this section.
The general words, "or concerning schemes devised for
the purpose of obtaining money or property under false
pretenses," found in § 3894, do .not harmonize with the
general purpose of that section, if construed as urged by
the learned Attorney General. So construed, they would
trench upon the ground covered by § 5480. The words
referred to follow particular words descriptive of schemes
of gain dependent upon. chance, and are followed by further particular words relating to the same kind of lottery
schemes.
In such circumstandes, unless there is a clear manifesta'tion to the contrary, general words, not specific or limited,
should be construed as applicable to cases or matters of
Hke kind with those described by the particular words.
Construing the two sections together as legislation in

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

pari materia, we find no manifest legislative intent forbidding the application of the rule of construction referred to. We therefore conclude that the words "or
concerning schemes devised for the purpose of obtaining
money or property by false pretenses," are to be limited to
schemes haing a similitude to the lottery and other like

schemes particularly described by the particular words of
the sect1.d. This view finds.strong support in the case of
United States v. Sauer, 88 Fed. Rep. 249, where the opinion
was by Judge Severens, then District Judge.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MUNDAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 593.

Argued October 25, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Section 2350, Rev. Stat., is, by 9 1 and 4 of the act of April 28, 1904,
33 Stat. 552, c. 17.72, continued in force in the District of Alaska,
and prohibits more than one entry of coal land by or fo- the shine
person or association of persons.
The policy adopted by Congress of restricting one coal land entry to
each qualified entryman was to prevent monopolization of coal
lands by securing to every citizen the right to obtain for himself
one tract of not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres.
The rule of construction that an intention to depart from a long enforced unifofm policy will not be imputed to Congress, applied in
construing the act of April 28, 1904, 33 Stat. 552, c. 1772, relative
to coal lands in Alaska.
A policy to confine the entryman to one entry is not affected by the
fact that Congress leaves him free to assign a location made in good
faith. United Stats v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
All the statutes affecting coal land entries-act of March 3; 1873,

