OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

right rests upon the plainly erroneous assumption that the
act of 1899 was intended to or did operate to paralyze all
state power concerning structures of every character in
navigable waters within their borders, and to destroy automatically all vested rights of property in such works, even
although acquired prior to the act of 1899 under the sanction of state authbrity. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.
410. See also Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 365.
In view of the character of the case, the facts found by
the court below and the absolute want of merit in *the
Federal question relied upon, we are of opinion that the
grounds relied upon for review are of so frivolous a nature
as not to afford the basis for the exercise of jurisdiction,
and our decree therefore will be
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. STATE OF
WASHINGTON EX REL.-ATMNSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 136.

Submitted December 19, 1911.--Decided January 9, 1912.

A train moving and carrying freight between two points in the same
State, but which is hauling freight between points one of which is
within and the other without the State, or haWling it through the
State between points both without the State, is engaged in interstate commerce and subject to the laws of Congress enacted in regard thereto. Southern Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.20.
The right of a State to apply its police power to subjects under the
exclusive control of Congress, but in regard to whichCongress has

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WASHINGTON.
222 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

been silent, ceases as soon as Congress acts on the subject and
manifests its purpose to call into effect its exclusive power.
Congress by enacting a statute in regard to a subject within its exclusive power manifests its purpose to call that power into effect, and
at once removes that subject from the sphere of state action and
even if Congress provides that the statute shall not go into effect until
a subsequent date the States lose control of that subject during the
intermediate period from the enactment to the active operation of
the statute.
The enactment by Congress of the Hours of Service Law, March 4,
1907, c. 2939, 34 Stat. .1415, was a manifestation by Congress of its
intent to bring the subject of hours of labor of employ~s of interstate carriers under its control; and, although the act did not go into
effect for a year after its lassage, the various state laws on the subject became inoperative at once on the enactment.
In this case the court referred to the report of the committee of Congress having the legislation in chayge as indicating the intent of
Congress in enacting the statute.
53 Washington,.673, reversd.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiff in error:
In the absence of legislation by Congress the state
statute would have been a valid exercise of the police
power of the State and free from constitutional objection,
even as to railroad employ6s engaged in interstate commerce. But as Congress, by the act of, Marcb4, 1907,
completely regulated the hours of labor of the employ6s
in question, the act of the legislature of Washington was
void as to such employ6s.
After March 4, 1908, the state law clearly was inoperative, Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 221 U. S. 612; State v. Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. PaulRy. Co., 136 Wisconsin, 407, and during the year
intervening between March 4, 1907, and March 4, 1908,
Congress, in effect, had declared that commerce should
be free from regulation in this respect. Had Congress

thought the time ripe to put such regulation into effect,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

it would have made its act immediately operative. Congress would not without some reason it thought good
deliberately enact such a law, and say it should not
take effect until a year later. See report of Mr. Esch,
from Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
No. 7641, February 16, 1907, p. 6; also see speech of Mr.
Stevens, of Minnesota, Cong. Rec., Feb. 18, 1907, pp. 3248,
3251. This report and recommendation were adopted
by Congress. Senate bill, No. 5133, was to take effect
immediately, but Congress agreed to the House amendments-including the one postponing the effective date
of the law to one year after its passage.
The case of safety appliances is strictly analogous-to
this in granting delay, as it was obvious that the railway
equipment of the country could not be changed in a day to
meet the requirements of the law. . In case of hours of
labor, as in that of safety appliances, it is plain that the
new requirements could not be made effective in a day.
Some time at.least was necessary for preparation. In
either case the determination of Congress that a certain
time was necessary is conclusive against state action in
the meantime., It is not to be expected that Congress in
any such case would insert in its act an express prohibition
on the States. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 21; Prigg
v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 617; Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How.
227; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S.
96.
It is a wellknown historical fact that the principal
cause which led to the enactment of the Constitution was
the intolerable interference with commerce by the different States.
Comrerce is a delicate thing, easily interfered with and
retarded. Whenever Congress takes cognizance of any
phase of interstate commerce it must be presumed that it
has regulated a. tar as it thinks the subject ought to be

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WASHINGTON.
222 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

regulated. It is just as if Congress declared in terms that
no further regulation should be made.
Congress, knowing that before the sixteen-hour law
could, with fairness or safety, be put into effect ifrwould be
necessary to change many division points, and train runs,
to create new divisions, to increase the number of employ~s, to change the residence of many of them, and to
make numerous other rearrangements, saw fit to say one
year's time should be allowed for these purposes. But the
legislature of Washington saw fit to say that, in its opinion, less time for the change was necessary. The state
legislation is in conflict with and has attempted to overrule the detprinination of Congress.
The question involved has been decided by the supreme
courts of at least three other States. Missouri and Wisconsin have decided in favor of appellants' contention, and
Montana against it-see State v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.,
111 S.W. Rep. 500; State v. Chic., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co.,
136 Wisconsin, 407. In State v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co.,93 Pac.
Rep. 945, the Supreme Court upheld the state act on the
authority of Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.465, and Sherlock
v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, but these cases not only do. not
support the conclusion but are hardly in point. So also
as to the case of Larrabeev. Talbott, 5 Gill, 429, on which
the court below based its decision.
Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, for defendant in error:
An act regulating the hours of labor of employ6s engaged in train service on railroads is within the police
power of the State. Cleveland &c. Railway Co. v. Illinois,
177 U. S. 514, and cases there cited.
While a State may not "regulate" interstate or foreign
commerce, yet state authority over the same is not wholly
excluded in the absence of congressional action, for state
legislation in many ways may affect such commerce and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

222 U. S.

the persons engaged therein without constituting a "regulation" of it within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
The question.of conflict is to be determined by the ordinary rules of statutory construction, and it should not
be held that the state legislation has been superseded
except in cases of manifest repugnancy. Reid v. Colorado,
187 U. S. 137, 148; Missouri &c. Railroad Co. v. Haber,
169 U. S. 613, 623.
There is no repugnancy between the act of Congress
effective March 4, 1908, and the act of the legislature
effective July 12, 1907, during the interim preceding the
taking effect of the act of Congress.
As a general rule a statute speaks from the time it
goes into effect, whether that time be the day of its enactment or soine future day to which the power enacting
the statute, has postponed the time of its, taking effect.
Rice v. Ruddiman, 10 Michigan, 125; Price v. Hopkins,
13 Michigan, 318; Grant v. Alena, 107 Michigan, 335;
H., H. & S. A. Railway Co. v. State, 81 Texas, 572; Jackman v. Garland, 64 Maine, 133; Evansville &c. R. R. Co.
v. Barbee, 59 Indiana, 592; 26 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
565
The identical question before the court in the case at
bar was considered by the Supreme Court of Montana in
State v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 36 Montana, 582, in
which the court held that in the absence of some express
or implied declaration of a purpose that such shall be the
result, legislation is not effective for any purpose until it
becomes effective. The act of Congress contains no such
declaration, and the state statute, which was valid and
in force at the time of its passage, remains in force until
the act of Congress becomes effective.
This question has been passed upon by the supreme
courts of four of the States. In Montana and Washington it has been held that the act of Congress is not repug-

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WASHINGTON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nant to acts theretofore adopted by the state legislatures.
In Missouri a~id Michigan the courts have reached the
contrary concliion. State v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co.,
136 Wisconsin, 07; 117 N. W. Rep. 686, and State v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 212 Missouri, 658; 111 S. W. Rep.
500. The decision of the Supreme Court of Washington is
supported by the better reasoning.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WmTE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
On July 3 and 4, 1907, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, in operating a train on its road in the State of
Washington,, permitted some of the train crew to remain
on duty more than sixteen consecutive hours. This being
apparently contrary to the prohibition of the act of Congress known as the "Hours of Service" law, approved
March 4, 1907, c. 2939, 34 Stat. 1415, if the railroad
company in the operation of the train was subject to. the
power of Congress and the prohibitions of the act were
otherwise applicable, there was a violation of the act and
a liability to its penalties.
The train, although moving from one point to another
in the State of Washington, was hauling merchandise
from points outside of the State destined to points within
the State and from points within the State to points in
British Columbia, as well as in carrying merchandise
which had originated outside of the State and was in
transit through the State to a foreign destination. This
transportation was interstate commerce, and the train
was an interstate train, despite the fact that it may also
have been carrying some local freight. In view of the
unity and indivisibility of the service of the train crew
and the paramount character of the authority of Congress to regulate commerce, the act of Congress was exclusively controlling. Southern Railway Co. v. United

376"

OCTOBER TERM, 19.11.
Opinion of the Court.

222-U. S.

States, 222 U. S. 20. But while thus governed by the
act of Congress the prohibitions of that act were not
operative. This follows, by reason of the provisions of
ยง 5 to the following effect: "That this Act shall take effect
and be in force one year after its passage."
About a month before the occurrences heretofore referred to, that is, on June 12, 1907 (Laws 1907, p. 25,
c. 20) alaw of the State*of Washington regulating the
hours of service of railway employ~s "became effective.
Without going into detail it suffices to say that the provisions of that act greatly resembled those of the act of
Congress and prohibited the consecutive hours of service
which had taken place on the train of the Northern Pacific
road. The Attorney General of the State commenced
the proceeding now before us to recover penalties for the
violation of the state law. The railroad answered, admitted the acts complained of, but denied any liability for
the penalties imposed by the state law. The denial was
based upon the assertion that the train was an interstate
train, and was not subject to the control of the State because within the exclusive authority of Congress, manifested by the enactment of Congress on that subject.
The trial court granted a motion for judgment upon the
pleadings and awarded one thousand dollars penalty,
and it is to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
affirming such action that this writ of error is prosecuted.
Considering the character of the transportation, the
court below held that the train was an interstate train,
and within the potentiality of the exercise by Congress
of its power to regulate commerce. Despite this, it
was held that the penalty had been rightly imposed, because until Congress had acted upon the subject it was
competent for the State to make a regulation concerning
the hours of service of employ6s on railroad trains moving within the State, and to apply such regulation to a
train engaged in interstate commerce. This, however,

NOR. PAC. RY. v. WASHINGTON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was based, not upon a supposed concurrent state and
Federal power, but solely on the ground that Congress
had not acted on the subject, and therefore the state regulation should be applied. Indeed, the court in express
terms declared that if Congress had legislated "its act
supersedes any and all state legislation on that particular
subject," and it was stated that the State in argument
had so conceded.
The court said (53 Washington, 673, 676):
"On the other hand, it is conceded by the State that
the power of the Congress to regulate interstate commerce
is plenary, and that, as an incident to this power, the Con'gress may regulate by legislation the instrumentalities
engaged in the business, and may prescribe the number
of consecutive hours an employ6 of a carrier so engaged
shall be required to remain on duty; and that when it does
legislate upon the subject, its act supersedes any and all
state legislation on that particular subject. In fact, these
propositions can hardly be said to be debatable in the
state courts, since the Federal courts, whose decisions are
authoritative on questions of this character, have repeatedly announced them as governing principles in determining the validity of regulative legislation concerning
carriers of interstate commerce. Escanaba &c. Transp.
Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Morgan &c. S. S. Co. v.
Louisiana Board of Health, 118 U. S. 455; Nashville &c.
R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U. S. 427; Lake Shore &c. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.
285; Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S. 584."
Thus, conceding the paramount power of Congress,
the operative force of the state law was solely maintained
over the interstate commerce in question because of the
provision of the act of Congress providing that it should
not take effect until one year after its passage. As a
result, the act was treated as not existing until the expiration of a year from its passage. Copiously referring

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

to authorities as to when a legislative act was to be treated
as taking effect, the court said (p. 678):
" .
It seems clear that the Federal statute did
not speak as a statute until after March 4, 1908, the date
on which it went into effect; for if a law passed to take
effect at a future day must be construed as if pass~d on
that day, and if, prior to the time it goes into effect, no
rights can be acquired under it and no one 's bound to
regulate his conduct according to its terms, it is idle to
say that it has -the effect of a statute between the time
of its passage and the time of its taking effect. A statute
cannot be both operative and inoperative at the same time.
It is either a law or it is not a law, and, without. special
words of limitation, when it goes into effect for one purpose it goes into effect for all purposes"
But we are of opinion that this view is not compatible
with the paramount authority of Congress over interstate commerce. It is elementary, and such is the doctrine announced by the cases to which the court below
referred, that the right of a State to apply its police power
for the purpose of regulating interstate commerce, in a
case like this, exists only from the silence of Congress on
the subject, and ceases when Congress acts on the subject
or manifests its purpose to call into play its exclusive
power.>I"This being the conceded premise upon which
alone the state law could have been made applicable,
it results that as the enactment by Congress of the law
in question was an assertion of its power, by the fact alone
of such manifestation that subject was at once removed
from the sphere of the operation of the authority of the
State. To admit the fundamental principle and yet to
reason that because Congress chose to make its prohibitions take effect only after a year, the matter with which
Congress dealt remained subject to state power, is to
cause the act of Congress to destroy itself; that is,
to give
effect to the will of Congress as embodied in the postpon-

NOR.- PAC; RY. v.. WASHINGTON.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing provision for the purpose of overriding and rendering
ineffective the. expression of the will of Congress to bring
the subject within its control-a manifestation arising
from the mere fact of the enactment of the statute.
We do not pause to cite authorities additional to those
referred to by the court below, but we observe in passing
that the aspect. in which we view the question was cogently stated by the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri in State v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 212 Missouri,
658, and has also been lucidly expounded by the Supreme
Court of the State of Wisconsin in State v. Chicago, M.
& St. P. Ry. Co., 136 Wisconsin, 407.
But if we pass these considerations and consider the
issue before us as one requiring merely an interpretation
of the statute, we are of opinion that it becomes manifest that it would cause the statute to destroy itself to
give to the clause postponing its operation for one year
the meaning which must be affixed to it in order to hold
that during the year of postponement state police laws
applied. In the first place, no conceivable reason has
been, or we think can be, suggested for the postponing
provision if it was contemplated that the prohibitions
of state laws should apply in the meantime. This is true
because if it be that it was contemplated that the subject
dealt with should be controlled during the year by state
laws, the postponement of the prohibitions of the act
could accomplish no possible purpose. This is well illustrated by this case, where, by the ruling below, a state
regulation substantially similar to that contained in' the
act of Congress is made applicable. In the second place,
the obvious suggestion is that the purpose of Congress
in giving time was to enable the necessary adjustments
to be made by the railroads to meet the new conditions
created by the act, a purpose which would of course be
frustrated by giving to the provision as to postponement
a significance which would destroy the very reason which

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

222 U. S.

caused it to be enacted. Finally, the convictions which
arise from the fadt of the postponement are made plain
by a report on the bill made to the House of Representatives by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, wherein it was said (Report No. 7641, dated
February 16, 1907, p. 6):
"Owing to the probable necessity of changing in some
instances division points, entailing the removal of employ6s, and to permit ample time to readjust themselves
to the requirements of the law, it is not to become operative for one year after its approval."
For the reasons stated the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Washington must be and it is
Reversed, and the cause will be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

RED "C" OIL MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
BOARD OF AGRICULTURE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 141.

Argued December 21, 22, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

This court will not lightly attribute improper motives to the lawmaking power, and will not, on a mere charge, regard a statute
imposing inspection fees as an act to raise revenue. Ellis v. United
States, 206 U. S. 246.
Prima facie, the charge for inspection in an act otherwise constitutional is reasonable. Western Union Tel. Co. v. New Hope, 187
U. S. 417.
The fact that oil inspection laws have been passed in a majority of
the States shows that oil is a proper subject for police regulation.
In lhis case this court cannot conclude that the charge for inspecting
oil, provided by the North Carolina oil inspection law of 1909, is

