OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

222 U. S.

HUSE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 74.

Argued November 17, 1911.-Decided January 9, 1912.

A mail service contractor cannot claim that he accepted a contract
under misapprehension when between the.time of his proposal and
its acceptance he took a temporary contract for carriage of the
identical mails contracled for.
A contract for delivery of all mails at Union Station, Omaha, was
properly construed by the Postmaster General as including mail
delivered by three railroads not in the schedule, it appearing, however, that the mail so delivered had formerly been delivered by one
of the railroads mentioned in the ichedule and were included in a
route specified in the contract.
A mail service c6ntractor whose contract had been eancelled for failure to perform sued in the-Court of Claims for balance due and for
damages for cancellation; that court held he was not entitled to
judgment for the balance due because it appeared that the contract
was properly cancelled and that the Government had sustained
damages in excess of the balance due. In this court, held: that as
the objection that the balance due could not, in the absence of a
counterclaim pleading, be offset against thle damages sustained by
the Government had not been raised'in the Court of Claims, that'
court rightly offset it, a 6d the objection cannot be raised for the
first time on appeal in this court.
Quwre: Whether the rules of practice in the Court of Claims would
not permit the offset to be made in absence of any pleading setting
up counterclaim or offset.
44 C. Cl. 19, affirmed..
THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for screen-wagon mail service in Omaha, Nebraska, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg, with whom Mr. Clarence
.A. Brandenburg and Mr. F. Walter Brandenburg were on
the brief, for appellant:
The carrying of m~ails arriving over roads not men-

HUSE v. UNITED STATES.
.222 t. S.

1

497

Argument for Appellant.

tioned in the advertisement for proposals was *an extra
service for which the appellant was entitled to compensation. Woolverton v. United States, 27 C. Cl. 292; Knox v.
United States, 30 C. Cl. 59; Woolverton v. United States,
34 C. Cl. 247, distinguished; and see Utah Stage Co. v.
United States, 39 C. Cl. 420; affirmed, 199 U. S. 422.
If the contract, on its face did not, by its special provisions, require the appellant to carry the mail arriving
over roads not mentioned, or under the general provision
relating to additional service, then '"as the contract specifie* the particular roads transporting the mail which the
appellant was to carry, parol evfdence was inadmissible
for the purpose of showing that the contract required
appellant to carry mail brought to Omaha over other
roads not mentioned.
By' its own terms the contract excluded the mail
brought into the Union Station over roads not mentioned in the advertisement and it was not competent to
extend, by parol evidence, the duty of the appellant to
such roads; and further, if such evidence was competent,
it shows the appellant fully performed his duty as to
making inquiry and that after so doing he was not informed and had no knowledge that the Government, by
its advertisement, expected him to carry mail arriving
over roads not mentioned therein.
On the facts as found by the court below, the action of
the Postmaster General in annulling the appellant's contract was without right and unlawful.
At the time the Postmaster General annulled this contract the. Government itself was in default in respect of
the only obligation it assumed, to wit, the payment of the
stipulated compensation, and being in default, it had no
right to annul the contract. Mason v. Thompson, 94 Minnesota, 472; Graf v.: Cunningham, 109 N. Y. 372; Hatton
v. Johnson, 83 Pa._St. 222; Meyers v. Gross, 59 Illinois, 439.
As the United States itself was in default, it had no
VOL. ccxxii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

222 U. S.

right to annul the contract unless, such annulment be
treated as the exercise of the right to terminate the contract at any time upon allowing the contractor an additional month's pay. If so treated, judgment should
have been rendered for the appellant.
The record discloses no fault on the part of the appellant. It wholly fails to show any failure on his part to
make due inquiry as to the service expected of him, or
knowledge in advance of executing the contract, of the
relations between the Union Pacific Railroad and the
other railroads not mentioned in the advertisement. Otis
v. United States, 20 C. Cl. 315.
Reasonably construed, and str.ctly construed certainly
so, the service required of the appellant was not covered
by his contract.
Whether or not the contract was properly annulled,
the appellant is entitled to judgment for services rendered.
No counterclaim was filed and no damages have been
assessed by the Auditor for the Post-Office Department.
To offset the amount found, to be due the appellant,.
therefore, it was necessary for the defendant, as with any
other litigant, to file a couterclaim if it intended to
insist upon one, particularly where, as in this case, the
loss sustained by the defendant, if any in fact was sustained, arose after the annulment of the contract. Upon
that issue, if presented, the appellant would have been
entitled to be heard and was, as a matter of right and
jusice, entitled to be apprised by the pleadings.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom
Mr. George M. Aderson was on the brief, for the United
States:
No fraud or deception was practiced on appellant as to
•the quantity of mails to be carried under his contract to
and from the Union Station..
The obligation rests upon every man. of reasonable

HUSE v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prudence and intelligence to properly inform himself before incurring any liability under a proposed contract,
and unless fraud or deception has been employed in inducing him to enter into the contract, he will be held to
have so informed himself. Dairv. United States, 14 Wall.
1, 6; Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578.
The Postmaster General has the right to reqtire suitable equipment of appellant before commencement of his
service under his contract.
The Postmaster General was the judge of the proper
equipment to be furnished by appellant before commencing the services, and, in the absence of bad faith,
his right to annul the contract upon appellant's refusal
to provide suitable equipment cannot now be assailed.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691; United States v.
Cal. & Oreg. Land Co., 148 U. S. 31.
The Postmaster General had the right to annul appellant's contract for refusal to obey his instruction.
Appellant failed to comply with reasonable require-.
ments, and. in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Department annulled the contract. Slavens v.
United States, 196 U. S. 229.
The right of the Postrakter General to annul the contract for failure on the part of the appellant to comply
with the instructions of the Department clearly embraced
the right to withhold payment for services already performed and to relet the contract at appellant's expense.
The opinion of the court below presents a careful and
clear analysis of what the contract contained. There are
no complications about the facts. It is shown that owing
to the failure of appellant to perform his contract in accordance with the terms and requirements thereof the
Government sustained a loss of over $14,000.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant had a four-year contract, commencing

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

July 1, 1902, for scru-n-wagon mail service between the
post-office and railway mail stations at Omaha, Nebraska.
On May 20, 1903, the )ostmaster General cancelled the
contract and relet it to other.parties. Thereupon appellant brought this suit in the Court of Claims, asserting
that he had faithfully performed his agreement, but that
he had been required to carry mails to and from three
railway companies not included in his contract. That his
equipment was ample for the service he contracted to
render, but that he had been ordered to provide equipment
adequate to the excessive service demanded, and that the
cancellation of his contract was therefore unauthorized.
His suit was to recover, first, the balance due under the
contract as construed by the Department; second, the
reasonable value of the excess service he had, under protest, been compelled to render; third, the loss of profit resulting from tlhi wrongful annulment of his contract; and,
finally, the loss sustained in disposing of equipment which
had been bought for the purpose of carrying out his
contract.
As is the case with mail contracts, the manner and
means of performance were carefully prescribed and power
,was reserved to the Postmaster General to require other
and further facilities if it should be found necessary for the
good of the service. The power of the Postmaster General
to supervise and the duty of the contractor to conform to
his regulations were plainly written down. That vigilant
and prompt service might be enforced, he was given the
right to make deductions, by way of fines, from compensation earned, for defects in equipment or negligence in
the performance of the service. For repeated failures
in performance or acts of neglect, or disobedience to orders,
he was given power to annul the contract without impairing -the right of the Government to recover damages for
non-performance.
The findings of the court below as to the repeated

HUSE v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

.Opinionof the Court.

failures of the appellant in the performance of his contract,
the inadequacy of his equipment, and his disobedience to
the requirements that he should enlarge and-improve his
facilities, make it clear thai the Postmaster General did
not act arbitrarily, nor exceed the power reserved, by the
infliction of fines or the final cancellation of the agreement
on May 20, 1903. When the contract was cancelled it was
directed that compensation due should be withheld and
the contract relet at the contractor's expense. This reletting was at a price of some $14,000 in excess of what
the cbst would have been if appellant had performed his
agreement. The court below found that when the contract was annulled there was due appellant $2,984.72.
For this a judgment was asked, but denied, the court below finding that the loss to the Government as a result of
reletting the contract was greatly in excess of the amount
due to appellant. His petition was therefore dismissed.
If the contract, fairly construed, exacted the amount of
service which the Department claimed, the case of appellant must fail, in view of the facts found as to his insufficient performance, and the loss resulting to the Government from the necessity of reletting the unfinished
term of the agreement.
The Postmaster General construed the contract as requiring appellant to receive from and deliver to all railroads using -the Union Station at Omaha. This construction required him to receive from and deliver to three
railroad companies, not specified in the contract, namely,
the Wabash, the Chicago and Northwestern and the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul. The case must, therefore, turn upon the question as to whether the service
contemplated by his contract included mails to and from
the railways mentioned.
Coming, then, to the service required by the contract.
The proposal for the Omaha mail-wagon service and its
acceptance were according to a printed official form. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

proposal and acceptance, making the contract proper,
refer to and make the public advertisement of the Postmaster General for proposals a part of the agreement,, and
from it the service contemplated is discovered. That
advertisement included *certain"instructions to bidders,"
of which they were required to take notice. Among other
things; these "instructions" included the following provision:
"The foregoing schedules show approkimately the service as performed during the week named in the statement of service for each route. Bidders, however, must
personally inform themselves of the amount and character of the service that will be required during the contract term, beginning with July 1, 1902. Bidders and
their sureties are warned that they should familiarize
themselves with the terms of the contract, schedules of
service, and instructions contained herein before they shall
assume any liabilities as such bidders or sureties, to prevent misapprehension or cause of complaint thereafter."
Under the heading "Union Station," in the schedule
referred to, there appear' the names of four railroad companies opposite the words "Union Station," applicable
to each of the named companies, thus: "Union Station;
Illinois Central R. R. Co. (143077); Union Pacific R. R.
Co. (157001); Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Rwy. Co.
(157064); Missouri Pacific Rwy. Co. (157075)."
It will be noticed that the named railroads bringing
mail into the Union Station do not include the Wabash,
the Chicago and Northwesttn, or the Chicago, MiIwaikee and St. Paul. Notwithstanding this omission,
appellant was required to carry to and from the Union
Station the mails delivered there by these three companies
%ndto be delivered there from the post office to be carried
by the same companies. This appellant did under protest;
and upon this his suit is grounded.
But the explanation and answer is simple: Originally,

HUSE v. UNITED STATES.

222 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the contract routes of these companies terminated at the
Union Pacific transfer at Council Bluffs, Iowa, where the
mail was transferred to the Union Pacific Railway and
carried into Omaha. After the construction of the Union
Station, each of these companies procured the right to
carry their mail over the Union Pacific Railway into the
Union Station. This saved delay in transfer. The court
below found that "the trains so performing said service
were known and treated by the Post-Office Department
as mail trains of the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
route No. 157,001, and were operated under the rules of
said Union Pacific Railroad Company, and payment was
made therefor to the said Union Pacific Company. All
weights of mail carried by said three roads were credited
to the Union Pacific Railroad route and weighed thereon.
The screen-wagon contractor under the preceding advertisement and contract, which were similar to the one
in this case, carried mails to and from 'the trains of said
three roads as part of his contract, and these facts were.
known to persons having knowledge of the service."
This had for many years been the method of handling
the mails carried by the three companies referred to when
appellant made his proposal. True, he says he did not
know it; but the advertisement warned him of the necessity of making himself familiar with the "terms of the
contract, schedule of services and instructions herein before they should assume any liabilities as such bidders or
sureties, to prevent misapprehension." Among the facts
found is this:
"Prior to submitting, said proposal the claimant carefully read the advertisement and instructions to bidders
and familiarized himself with their terms, and knew.that
the trains of the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad, the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad, and the Wabash Railroad entered the Union Station at Omaha, and
to further inform himself as to the amount and character

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 i. S.

of the service to be performed he consulted the postmaster
and superintendent of mails at Omaha, who called his
attention to the Instructions to Bidders, also a Mr. Anderson, who had been in charge of the work under a former
contract, who explained to him the three depots, including
the Union Station, and the mail to be taken from them
and the number of wagons it would take to perform the
service."
Knowing of tlze manner in which the mails carried by
the three railroads in question were handled, acquired
ufter the contract was signed, is not of course, fatal to
his contention that the contract did not include that mail
matter. It does, however, appear that after his proposal
had been accepted and before the beginning of performance he actually took a temporary contract, for the carriage of the identical mails, so that when he entered upon
his own regular contract he was fully aware of the conditions. This must, at least, weaken the force of his
going forward under protest. But aside from this information, the advertisement and instructions warned him
to familiarize himself with the -situation by personal investigation and inquiry. This he asserted he had done,
for in his printed proposal he stated that, "This proposal
is made after due inquiry into and witha full knowledge of
all particulars in reference to the service and also after
careful examination of the conditions attached to said
advertisement and with intent to be governed thereby."
But it is urged that appellant is at least entitled to a
judgm'ent for $2,984.72, which the court below found to
be the amount due when the contract was terminated.
This contention is based upon the absence of any pleading
setting up as a counterclaim or set-off the difference between the cost of the service under the reletting and the
entire contract price for the full term under appellant's
contract. But no such objection seems to have been made
in the Court of Claims. That court had all the facts be-

HUSE v. UNITED STATES.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore it. It found that there was due on May 20, 1903, for
services under the contract prior thereto $2,984.72. But
it found, on the other hand, that at that date the contract
had been lawfully annulled and that the necessary reletting had resulted in a loss to the Government of a very
much larger sum. Upon this showing it properly concuded that the amount due was more than offset by the
loss resulting from reletting at a higher price. How it
might be if this objection had been seasonably made, it is
not an error for which this court will reverse when not
made until upon appeal. In Wisconsin Central Railroadv.
United States, 164 U. S. 190, 212, a like objection was made
as to claims coming from the Court of Claims, and this
court said:
"The petition sets forth, among other things, that the
Postmaster General wrongfully and unlawfully withheld the
$12,532.43 out of moneys due petitioner, which was, therefore, entitled to recover the full amount; and to each and
every allegation of the petition the government interposed
a general traverse. It is now said that a counterclaim or
set-off should have been pleaded, but the record does not
disclose that this objection was raised below, while the
findings of fact show that the entire matter was before the
court for, and received, adjudication. Moreover, it has
been repeatedly held that the forms of pleading in the
Coui-t of Claims are not of so strict a character as to require omissions of this kind to be held fatal to the rendition of such judgment as the facts demand."
Judgment affirmed.

