SANDOVAL v. RANDOLPH.
222 U. S.

161

Opinion. of the Court.

SANDOVAL v. RANDOLPH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 4. Submitt4 October 26, 1911.-Decided December 4, 191L
A principal betrayed by his agent into paying for property an excess
over the price for. which the agent obtains it may declare in assumpsit without relying upofi fraud and deceit in an action for
damages.
An agent who makes a secret profit in the execution of his agency may
be compelled to disgorge in an action upon implied promise.
Where one agrees to act as agent to purchase property at not exceeding a specified price, he cannot avail of an unexpired option antedating the employment to purchase the property at a less price.
himself and make the difference.'
An agreement to sell at a price paid with right of redemption w~hin a
specified period with further agreement not to redeem if an additional sum be paid within that period simply amounts to an option.
11 Arizona, 371, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry S. Van Dyke and Mr. Frank P. Flint, with
whom Mr. G. Bullard was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellee.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court. -By
MR. JUSTICE LURTON.

Action for money had and received for the use of the
plaintiff. A jury was waived And there was judgment for
plaintiff upon a special finding of fact. This judgment was
affirmed by the court below, the court holding that there
was evidence supporting the findings of fact, and that when
VOL. CCXXTI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

that was the case the court could not go behind the facts
so found.
The facts so found were in every essential respect the
facts stated in the complaint. They were, in substance:
1. That the plaintiff procured the defendants to negotiate with the supposed owner of a silver mine in Mexico,
and buy it from the owner for the lowest possible price
for the plaintiff and another, who had since assigned his
interest to the plaintiff.
2. That the defendants did thereafter bargain for the
property and did buy the same at the price of twenty thousand dollars, Mexican silver, taking the title to one of
them.
3. That the defendants represented that they had
agreed to pay twenty thousand dollars in American money
for the mine, and that the plaintiff, believing this to be
true, paid over to the defendants the full sum of twenty
thousand dollars in American currency, which was the
equivalent of twice the sum which the defendants had
actually agreed to pay and did later pay for the said property.
The action was in debt to recover this excess over the
cost of the property, as money had and received for the
use of the plaintiff.
It would be a great scandal if a principal thus betrayed
by his agent might not declare in assumpsit without relying upon fraud and deceit in an action for damages. And
so the court below held was the law, and that such was the
action, notwithstanding the conduct of the Sandovals was
characterized as deceitful and fraudulent.
Neither is it now contended that an agent who makes a
secret profit in the execution of his agency may not be
compelled to disgorge and required to do so in an action
upon an implied promise.
Neither do the appellants now deny that there was
abundant evidence to ,upport the finding that they did

SANDOVAL v. RANDOLPH.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

agree to act as the plaintiff's agents and to buy for him
from the supposed owner the mine they did buy; nor do
they now deny that they represented to the plaintiff that
they had bought the property for him at the price averred,
when in fact they had paid for same only one-half that
price.
What they do say is, that as a matter of law there was
no relation of principal and agent, since there was conelusive evidence that they were themselves the owners of
the property at the time they agreed to act for the plaintiff in buying it. Upon this hypothesis it is said that there
is no evidence to support a judgment grounded upon their
liability for a breach of duty as agents. since one may not
act as agent for the buyer in the sale of property of which
he is himself the sole owner.
But the finding of fact was that the defendants, after
agreeing to purchase in behalf of the plaintiff, "and in
pursuance of that agreement, purchased the said mining
property," etc. This finding is a flat contradiction of the
claim that they were the owners when they agreed. to
represent the plaintiff in buying the property. We lay
out of consideration, in the present situation of this case,
all conflicting oral evidence relating to the agreement.
There is left only what is said to be conclusive documentary evidence to support the claim. But that does not do
so. It consists in a contract antedating the agency agreement, by which the real owners, Ortiz and two others,
agreed to sell the mine in question to one of the Sandovals,
in consideration, with right of redemption within six
months, of one thousand and sixty pesos; Mexican, with
the further agreement that they would not exercise the
right of redemption if Sandoval should pay to them "the
further consideration of the sum of twenty thousand. Mexican pesos." This was nothing more than an option, of
which Sandoval availed himself in time, and while executing his agreement of agency.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

Every other suggestion of error hinges upon this alleged
inability to act as agent, or upon points of procedure
clearly foreclosed by the rulings of the Ariiona courts.
Judgment affirmed.

ANDERSON v. UNITED REALTY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 27. Argued November 1, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
Where there is a separable controversy and requisite diversity of citizenship it is the duty of the state court to accept the petition and
bond and proceed no further in the case; trial and judgment thereafter by the state court would be coram non judice unless its jurisdiction over the cause be restored.
The state court may recover jurisdiction over a cause which has been
removed by defendants having separable controversy, and where
plaintiff has an order entered dismissing it against the removing
defendants and other defendants having like ground of removal
reciting that in consideration of such dismissal the petition for removal is withdrawn, the state court has jurisdiction to proceed
against. the remaining defendants. National Steamship Co. v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, distinguished.
79 Oh. St. 23, affirmed.
THE

facts axe stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rhea P. Cary for plaintiff in error:
There was in this case a separable controversy between
the Hammond Company and the original plaintiff, who is
the plaintiff in efror herein. Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S.
205; Bacon v. Felt, 36 Fed. Rep. 871; Stan.brough v. Cook,
38 Fed. Rep. 369; PacificRailroadRemoval Cases, 115 U. S.
2; Bates v. Carpenter, 98 Fed. Rep. 452.

