OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

222 U. S.

Every other suggestion of error hinges upon this alleged
inability to act as agent, or upon points of procedure
clearly foreclosed by the rulings of the Ariiona courts.
Judgment affirmed.

ANDERSON v. UNITED REALTY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 27. Argued November 1, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
Where there is a separable controversy and requisite diversity of citizenship it is the duty of the state court to accept the petition and
bond and proceed no further in the case; trial and judgment thereafter by the state court would be coram non judice unless its jurisdiction over the cause be restored.
The state court may recover jurisdiction over a cause which has been
removed by defendants having separable controversy, and where
plaintiff has an order entered dismissing it against the removing
defendants and other defendants having like ground of removal
reciting that in consideration of such dismissal the petition for removal is withdrawn, the state court has jurisdiction to proceed
against. the remaining defendants. National Steamship Co. v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, distinguished.
79 Oh. St. 23, affirmed.
THE

facts axe stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rhea P. Cary for plaintiff in error:
There was in this case a separable controversy between
the Hammond Company and the original plaintiff, who is
the plaintiff in efror herein. Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S.
205; Bacon v. Felt, 36 Fed. Rep. 871; Stan.brough v. Cook,
38 Fed. Rep. 369; PacificRailroadRemoval Cases, 115 U. S.
2; Bates v. Carpenter, 98 Fed. Rep. 452.

ANDERSON v. UNITED REALTY CO.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that neither the plaintiff or defendant was an
inhabitant of the Northern District of Ohio, did not preclude the Circuit Court of the United States from acquiring jurisdiction upon the filing of the petition and bond for
removal in the common pleas court of Lucas county, Ohio.
McCormick Machine Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S.41; St. L.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. McBride, 141 U. S.127; Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S.449; In re Moore, 209 U. S.490.
Upon the filing of the petition and bond .for removal,
the state court was divested of jurisdiction of the suit,
and its subsequent orders were coram non judice and void.
Railroad Co. v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 5; Steamship Company v.
Tugman, 106 U. S. 108; Traction Co. y. Mining Co., 196
U. S.239.
Mr. Harry E. King, Mr. Clayton W. Everett and Mr.
Oliver B. Snider, with whom Mr. Edward H. Rhoades, Mr.
Edward H. Rhoades, Jr., Mr. Elmer E. Davis, Mr. George
A. Bassett and Mr. Rathbun Fuller were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

By

MR. JUSTICE LURTON.

The single question for our consideration upon this writ
of error concerns the jurisdiction of the state court to proceed with the action: after one of the original defendants
had-filed its petition and.bond for removal to. the Circuit
Court of the United States.
If, as we shall assume, there was a separable controversy
und the requisite diversity of citizenship, it was the ,duty
of the state court to accept the petition and bond and proceed no further in the case. A trial and judgment thereafter would be coram non "judice,unless its .jurisdiction
over the cause and the parties was in some way restored.
National Steamship Co. v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118; Trac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

tibn ,Company v. Mining Company, 196 U. S. 239, 253.
But we are of opinion that the plaintiff in error is not in a
position to now assert that the state court's subsequent
exercise of jurisdiction was without authority. When the
removal petition and bond were filed, the plaintiff, before
any order was made in the state court or the record filed
in the United States court, had an order entered in the
state court dismissing his action against the removing defendant and certain others having like ground of removal,
the order reciting that in consideration of such dismissal
the petition for removal was withdrawn. Thereafter the
cause was proceeded with against the remaining defendants
without the hint of any objection by either the plaintiff
or the remaining defendants. Upon, the contrary, many
steps were taken and a long .ury trial had, resulting in
a verdict and judgment for t e defendants. Not until
the cause was carried to the Ohio Circuit Court by appeal
of the plaintiff was there any objection made to the jurisdiction of the trial court.
The state court had jurisdiction over the subject-matter.
It recovered jurisdiction over the remaining parties by
action and conduct equivalent to a formal waiver of new
process and new pleadings or any formal remander by
.the United States court.
The Tugman Case, cited above, does not help the Plaintiff in error. The defendant whose right to remoye had
been erroneously 'denied was held not to have waived his
right to remove by subsequently consenting to a reference
of the case to a referee, or by defending the suit both before the referee and the court without protesting. This
court said (p. 123):
"When the State court adjudged that it had authority
to proceed, the company was entitled to regard the decision as final, so far as that tribunal was concerned, and
.was not bound, in order. to maintain the right of removal,
to protest at subsequent stages of the trial against its ex-

UNITED STATES v. STEVER.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

ercise of jurisdiction. Indeed, such a course would scarcely
-have been respectful to the State court, after its ruling
upon the-point of jurisdiction had been made."
If,. on the other hand, he had thereafter invoked the

court's jurisdiction in his own behalf, he would not have
been permitted later to deny it. Texas & Pac. Ry. v.
Eastin, 214 U. S. 153; Garrozi v. Dastas, 204 U. S. 64, 73;
C. & 0. Ry. v. McDonald, 214 U. S. 191.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED- STATES v. STEVER.
ERROR -TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR
. THE, WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 448. Argued October 20, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.
Congress will.not be supposed to make the same offense indictable
and punishable under either of two distinct provisions under which
the procedure and the penalties are different.
Where general words follow words descriptive of particular actions
the&should, unless clearly manifested to the contrary, be construed
as applicable to cases or matters of like kind. vith those described
by theparticular words.
Sections 3894 and 5480, Rev. Stat., each apply to different offenses
and are to be construed as legislation in pani materia.
Section 3894; Rev. Stat., relates particularly to lottery schemes, and
the general words "concerning schemes devised for the purpose of
obtaining .money or property by false pretenses" are limited io
schemes having a similitude io lotteries and other like schemes
.particularly described and do not extend to the general schemes to
defraud covered by § 5480, Rev. Stat.

THEr facts, which involve the construction of §§ 3894
and 5480,.Rev. Stat., and what constitute offenses thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

