MUNSURI v. FRICKER.
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

supreme courts of the Territories of the United States,"
we think it evidence tihat as to questions of the character
of those presented by this appeal arising in steps in bankruptcy proceedings proper, the modes of review specifically provided for in the bankruptcy act are exclusive.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

MUNSURI v. FRICKER.
ERROR TO -THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 21.

Argued October 27, 30, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Tefft, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, ante, p. 114, followed to effect that
the express provisions for review contained in the Bankruptcy Act
are controlling, and that review by this court under ยง 24b of an order
disallowing claims is not authorized by the act.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals under the Bankruptcy Act, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr George H. Lamar, with whom Mr. Willis Sweet was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Wn. H.
Hawkins was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case relates to the same bankruptcy proceeding,
steps in which formed th6 basis of the appeal in case
No. 22, which has just been dismissed, ante, p. 114.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

In the petition for voluntary adjudication of the alleged bankrupt firm, Julian Munsuri was averred to be a
limited or special partner. Following certain proceedings
before the referee and a motion by general creditors, the
court below, on October 25, 1907, entered an order declaring Munsuri to be a general partner of the firm and his
personal estate liable for the firm debts. It was not, however, until February 19, 1909-nearly sixteen months after
the entry of the order and following the disallowance by
the court of the claims of certain creditors which had
been allowed by the referee-that this proceeding was
commenced to obtain a review of the order and judgment
of October 25, 1907. The proceeding for review was begun by the filing in the court below of a document styled
"Petition for a Writ of Review to the United States District Court for Porto Rico," verified and certified as such
by the attorney for Munsuri, which document, however,
although couched in part in the phraseology of a petition,
is also in form a writ of error directed to the judge of the
court below. In the bond and citation reference is made
to the proceeding as the prosecution of a Writ of Review
for the correction of the judgment or.order in the petition
mentioned.
Objection is nifade by the counsel for the trustee to the
exercise of jurisdiction by this court on the ground that
the supposed writ and citation thereon and the docketing
of the transcript 'are insufficient in law under any statute,
or rule, or practice of the court, to bring within the appellate jurisdiction of this court, for its consideration or correction, any of the matters and things charged in the
transcript. On the other hand the contention is that the
proceeding may be sustained as an appeal solely upon the
question of jurisdi6tion under ยง 5 of the Judiciary Act of
1891, or as a petition to superintend and revise in matter
of law, under sdetion 24b of the Bankruptcy Act. Aside
from any question as to the lapse of time between the en-

ENRIQUEZ v. ENRIQUEZ.
222 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

try of the assailed order and the commencement of this
proceeding for review, the decision in Tefft, Weller & Co. v.
Munsuri, ante, p. 114, of this term, just decided, is controlling, because it was there expressly held that the express provisions for review contained in the Bankruptcy
Act were controlling and that review under ยง 24b by this
court is not authorized by the act.
Dismissed.

ENRIQUEZ v. ENRIQUEZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 24.

Argued October 31, 1911.-Decided December 4, 1911.

Under ยง 10 of the act of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 695, this court
can only review judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands where the value in .ontroversy exceeds $25,000; and
where only a half interest of property is affected, jurisdiction does
not exist unless the value of such half interest exceeds that amount.
An affidavit that the value of the real property involved in the action
exceeds $25,000 is not sufficient to confef jurisdiction where only a
one-half interest is affected and the context of the affidavit gives rise
to the inference that the statements as to value relate to the entire
property and not to a half interest therein.
In this case resort to the record shows that the value of the interest in
the property affected is less than the jurisdictional amount.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals frbm the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Frederick L.
Siddons and Mr. Win. E. Richardsonwere on the brief, for
aunellants.
Mr. Allison D. Gibbs, for appellees, submitted.

