INT. COM. COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 541

222 U. S.

Syllabus

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY:.
SAME v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

Nos. 451, 452, 453.

Argued October 18, 19, 1911.-Decided' January 9,
1912.

The Act to Regulate Commerce makes the findings of the Interstate
Commerce Commission as to reasonableness of a rate prima facie
correct. Cincinnati &c. Ry. v. Interstae Commerce Commission,
206 U. S. 154.
Orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission are final unless beyond the power that the Commission can constitutionally exercise;
beyond its statutory power, or based upon a mistake of law.
An order of the Commission, regular on its face, may be set aside if it
appears that the rate is so low as to be confiscatory and in violation
of the constitutional prohibition against taking property without due
process of law; or if the Commission acted so arbitrarily and unjustly
as to fix rates contrary to evidence or without evidence to support
its conclusions; or if the authority was exercised in an absolutely
-unreasonable manner.
This court, in determining the validity of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, confines itself to the filtimate question as
to whether the Commission acted within its power. It will not consider expediency, nor will it consider facts further than to determine
whether there was sufficient evidence to support the order.
Where, as in this case, there is testimony as to value of the roads,
amounts expended, dividends, ratio of earnings and expenses, and
other matters, there is evidence to support the conclusions and the
findings of the Commission on such facts are conclusive.
,Reasonableness of railroad rates cannot be proved by categorical answers like those given in regard to value of articles of merchandise;
too many elements are involved which require consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

222 U. S.

Quacre: whether the maintenance of an admittedly low rate for a long
time raises a presumption of reasonableness because the carriers
realized a profit thereon.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission is not to be considered by itself alone, but must be considered in the light of all
the testimony, and when carriers themselves maintain a ratio of
difference, a rate fixed by the Commission maintaining the same
ratio of difference cannot be said to be beyond it§ power.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission within its power cannot be held invalid because it appears that possibly the Commission
considered other subjects than the reasonableness of the rate; and in
this case, held that an order fixing a rate on lumber was not invalid
because the Commission examined into the effect of the rate on the
lumber business and on the industries of the various points affected.

THESE three appeals are brought by the Interstate Commerce Commission from a decree enjoining a reduction of
lumber rates named in tariffs filed by the Great Northern,
the Northern Pacific and the Union Pacific Railroads.
The tariffs under consideration involve rates on lumber
from the coast, Spokane District, and Montana-Oregon
points to St. Padl, Omaha and Chicago. It is admitted
that the rates on shingles, hemlock, cedar and other forest
products have a fixed relation to those on fir lumber, and
that the differentials from Spokane and the MontanaOregon territory have a like fixed relation to those from
the coast.
The summary of these very lengthy records will therefore be limited to a statement of those facts bearing directly on the pivotal question as to the validity of the order
fixing a rate of forty-five cents per hundred pounds on fir
lumber from the coast to St. Paul.
In n93 the rate, from the coast, on fir lumber, over the
two northern lines to St. Paul, was fixed at 40 cents, and
since 1901 the rate to Omaha at 50 cents.
In 1907 the three carriers concurrently filed new tariffs,
making the rate from the coast to St. Paul 60 cents, to
Omaha 55 cents and to Chicago 60 cents. Thereupon

INT. COM." COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 543
222 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

various corporations filed complaints before the Commission, alleging that -the proposed rates were unreasonable and would seriously affect the lumber industry. The
carriers emphatically denied both of these allegations and,
in explanation of the causes leading up to the advance,
showed that when the Great Northern was completed to
the coast, about 1893, almost all of the freight shipped
over its line went from the east to the west--cars being
hauled back empty to St. Paul, its eastern terminus. In
order to correct this. expensive and unremunerative situation, the Great Northern decided to put in a rate on
lumber so low that mill men on the Pacific coast might
compete with dealers in white and yellow pine, in the
Chicago market, 2,500 miles distant. It thereupon reduced the existing rate to 40 cents. That cut was met by
the Northern Pacific which also reached St.,Paul, but the
Union Pacific at that time made no change in its rate.
The reduction opened up new markets, and was soon followed by heavy shipments of lumber to the east. The
business grew steadily, and prior to the filing of the tariffs
in 1907, the empty car movement had been completely
reversed-many cars being hauled empty from St. Paul to
the coast and retdrning to the east loaded with lumber.
Traffic increased to such an extent that it became neccessary to open up new tunnels, construct additional passing tracks and reduce grades and curves. There was a
constant increase in gross earnings, but the carriers contended that there had been such an -enormous and disproportionate increase in the cost of operation, that it Wvas
absolutely necessary to discontinue the unremuneratiy e
40 cent rate and advance it to 50 cents, which they insisted
was just and reasonable.
- There was no finding as to the effect on gross earnings
which would result from the proposed advance of ten
cents. But, as the Great Northern, in one year, hauled
1,765,095,997 tons one mile, equivalent to about 30,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
222 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

cars, of the average load of 58,000 pounds, transported
2,000 miles from the coast to St. Paul, the advance of ten
cents per hundred, or $58 per car, would represent a gross
annual increase, for that company alone, of $1,740,000.
An immense amount of evidence was offered by both
parties in support of their respective contentions. The
Commission rendered an elaborate opinion (14 I. C. C. 1),
and concluded by finding that the old rates were just and
reasonable and should be restored to all points on and
west of the Pembina line, which ran from the Canadian
line almost due south through Fargo, Omaha, to Port
Arthur, Texas. As Omaha was on this line, the effect of
that part of the order was to prohibit the 55 cent advance,
and to restore the old rate of 50 cents to Omaha, which
had been in force since 1901. As to rates east of the Pembina line the Commission held that "they might reasonably be somewhat increased, but not more than five cents
per hundred, to be graded up so as to reach the maximum
increase, at

.

.

St. Paul;

.

.

.

.

the rate from

the Missouri river crossings should be graded up, the
maximum increase of five cents reached at the Mississippi
river. Chicago rates should apply to all points between
the Mississippi

.

.

.

and Chicago."

The carriers thereupon filed separate bills to enjoin this
order, and repeated therein the contentions made before
the Commission; averred that the old 40 cent rate to St.
Paul and the 50 cent rate to Omaha were not only unremunerative, but proportionately so much lower than
rates on other merchandise as to amount to an unjust
discrimination; alleged that the prosperous condition of
the lumber business did not require or justify a further
maintenance of this low rate; and, among other-things,
insisted (1) that the order was beyond- the power of the
Commission, because entered without any evidence, or
finding, that the rates fixed by the carriers were unjust or
unreasonable; and (2) was void because the Commission

INT. COM. COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 545
222 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

erroneously held, as a matter of law, that the long continuance of the old rate, during a period when the carriers'
total income was sufficient to pay dividends, raised the
presumption that the old rates were reasonable.
The Commission demurred and, in its answer, averred
that evidence was introduced showing, -and tending to
show, that the advancedrates were unreasonable;. and
that, after a full hearing, it was of opinion that the rates
complained of were unreasonable, and ehtered its order
accordingly; that the determination of that question involved the exercise of a discretion committed solely to the
Commission, and that the "courts ought not and could
not review its judgment, and finding, unless it be made
clearly to appear that the orders complained of transcend
the pale of legitimate regulation."
The cases were referred to a Master, who reported that
the allegations of discrimination were not only too general,
but that there was no evidence upon which any ruling
could be predicated on that subject; that the substance
of the bill was that the rates put in by the Commission
were confiscatory, and, as to that, held that the evidence
was not sufficient to warrant the court in setting aside so
much of the .order as restored the rates to, and west of,
the Pembina line. There was some evidence that the cost
of hauling freight over the Union Pacific was greater than
over the northern lines, because it crossed the mountains
at a point 2,000 feet higher than they did. But the Master
found, as a fact, that the traffic conditions were substantially the same over the three roads, and that the distance
from the coast to Omaha was 1,800 miles and to St. Paul
2,052 miles. He thereupon held, as a matter of law, that
when the Commission fixed 50 cents as a reasonable rate
to Omaha over the shorter route, it necessarily followed
that the lower rate of 45 cents, over- the longer-route to
St. Paiul,was not only unreasonable butunjust.
And even "though the rate might not be- confiscatory,
vot. ccxxii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

yet an order which, on its face, is inherently inconsistent*
with the fundamental principles of rational justice, and
perverts the spirit and intent of the Interstate Commerce'
Act, though in form within the limits of delegated power,'
is, in fact, beyond those limits and is an unlawful order,:
and one which results in the taking of property without
due process of law." He recommended that the court
should enjoin so much of the order as permitted an advance
of only five cents to points east of that line.
The Commission, and each of the carriers, filed many
exceptions to the report, as to which the Circuit Court
passed the following order: "All the exceptions to the report of the Master must be overruled. Those which challenge his finding that the reduction, by the Interstate Commerce Commission, of the 50 cent rate on lumber to St.
Paul and other points east of the Pembina line, was arbitrary, and so palpably unjust and unreasonable, and so
discriminatory that'it was beyond the power of the Commission, are overruled; on the ground that this action of
the Commission was beyond its power, or so palpably and
gravely unjust and unreasonable as to be beyond the substance, if not beyond the form, of its power." Mr. Luther M. Walter and M2. Jesse C. Adkins for appellant.
Mr. Hae Holden, with whom Mr. CharlesDonnelly and
Mr. F. C. Dillardwere on the brief, for appellees.
MR.JusTIcE LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
These appeals taise the single question as to whether,
in making the 45 cent rate, the Commission acted within
or beyond its power. As the statute makes its finding
primafacie correct (Cincinnati &c. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 142, 154), it will be more con-

INT. COM. COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 547
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

venient to consider the case from the standpoint of the
carriers, who first insist that the order was void because
made without evidence, or finding, that the 50 cent rate
was unreasonable.
'There has been no attempt to-make an exhaustive state•ment of the principle involved, but in cases thus far decided, it has been settled that the orders of the Commission
are final unless (1) beyond the power which it could constitutionally exercise; or (2) beyond its statutory power; or
(3) based upon a mistake of law. But questions of fact
may be involved in the determination of questions of law,
so that an order, regular on its face, may be set aside if it
appears that (4) the rate is so low as to be confiscatory
and in violation of the constitutional prohibition against
taking property without due process of law; or (5) if ihe
Commission acted so arbitrarily and unjustly as to fix
rates contrary to evidence, or without evidence to support
it; or (6) if the authority therein involved has been exercised in such an unreasonable manner as to cause it to h:
within the elementary rule that the substance, and not
the shadow, determines the validity of the exercise of the
power. Int. Com. Com. v. Ill. Cent., 215 U. S. 452, 470;
Southern Pacific v., Int. Com. Com., 219 U. S. 433; Int.
Com. Com. v. NorthernPacific, 216 U. S. 538,544; Int. Com.
Com. v. Alabma Midland Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144, 174.
In determining these mixed questions of law- and fact,
the court confines itself to the ultimate question as to
whether the Commission acted within its power. It will
not consider the expediency or wisdom of the order, or
whether, on like testimony, it would have made a similar
ruling. "The findings'of the Commission are made by
law primafacie true, and this court has ascribed to them
the strength due to the judgments of a tribunal appointed
by law and informed by experience." I//. Cent. v; I. C. C.,
206 U. S. 441. Its conclusion, of course, is subject to review, but when supported by evidence is accepted as final;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

not that its decision, involving as it does so many and
siich vast public interests, can be supported by a mere
scintilla of proof-but the courts will not examine the
facts further than to determine whether there was substantial evidence to sustain the order.
2. We proceed, then, to a consideration of the carriers'
contention that the order was void because made without
any testimony that the 50 1cent rate of 1907, to St. Paul,
was unreasonable. We find that, as far back as 1893, the
rate on fir lumber was reduced to 40 cents, on the theory
that after a carrier had been paid for transporting a carload of freight from the east to the west, it was better to
haul it back loaded with lumber at 40 cents, thereby earning something, than to take it back empty and get nothing. But if, after the empty car movement had been
reversed, the carrier had to be at the expense of hauling
cars empty to the west for the purpose of returning them
loaded with lumber at the unremunerative rate of 40
cents, there would be a double loss--it got nothing for
hauling the empty car from St. Paul to the coast, and it
derived no profit for hauling it back at the low rate. They
contend that this situation, in connection with the enormous increase in the cost of operation, not only justified
but required an advance over the 40 cent rate. And this
view of the testimony seems to have been taken by the two
commissioners who dissented. If there was no other evidence, the Commission's order could not be sustained.
But these facts do not stand alone. In the first place
there was no appeal from the Master's finding that:
"The carriers concede that they are unable to determine the cost of this traffic, in and of itself; and that they
are unable to say, with any satisfactory accuracy whether
or not they make a profit upon it; but they have all conceded that, in their judgment, speaking as experts, the
luniber traffic has-not been confiscatory and has not'been
pefformed for lie hancbst;"

INT. COM. COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 549
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This concession, of course, does not cover the question
at issue, but it does fix a starting point. It establishes an
important fact in dealing with the difficult question of determining what is a reasonable rate on a particular article.
Where the rates as a whole are under consideration, there
is a possibility of deciding, with mori or less certainty,
whether the total earnings afford a reasonable return. But
whether the carrier earned dividends or not sheds .little
light on the question as to whether the rate on a particular
article is reasonable. For, if the carrier's total income
enables it to declare a dividend, that would not justify an
order requiring it to haul one class of goods for nothing,
or for less than a reasonable rate. On the other hand, if
the carrier earned no dividend, it would not have warranted an order fixing an unreasonably high rate on such
article. But the absence of direct testimony that the 50
(tent rate was unreasonably high is unimportant. Neither
can any specific effect be given to the statement of witnesses that the 40 cent rate was low. The reasonableness
of rates cannot, be proved by categorical answers, like
those given, where a witness may, in terms, testify that
the goods were worth so much per pound, or the services
worth so much a day. Too many elements are involved
in fixing a rate on a particular article, over a particular
road, to warrant reliance on such method of proof. The
matter has to be determined by a consideration of many
iacts.
In this case the Commission had before it many witnesses and volumes of reports, statistics and estimates,
including the rates on lumber charged, by other roads, and
those charged by these carriers on other classes of freight.
There was evidence that during the fourteen years, when
the 40 cent rate was in force, the carriers had, by proper
management and without wasteful economies, kept their
properties in a high state of efficiency, and after paying all
the costs of operation, maintenance, depreciation, fixed

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

charges and sinking funds, had been able to pay reasonable
dividends.
There was evidence as to the value of the road, the
amounts expended in betterments and paid out in dividends, ratio between the increased earnings and increased
expenses, with many tables and estimates tending to show
the cost of hauling empty cars, fully loaded cars, and those
carrying an average load.
With that sort of evidence before them, rate experts of
acknowledged ability and fairness, and each acting independently of the other, may not have reached identically
the same conclusion. We do not know whether the results
would have been approximately the same. For there is
no possibility of solving the question as though it were a
mathematical problem to which there could only be one
correct answer. Still there was in this mass of facts that
out of which experts could have named a rate. The law
makes the Commission's finding on such facts conclusive.
There was then, under the statute, nothing for the companies to do except to comply with the order-or, act on
the suggestion thrown out in the Commission's answer, and
apply for a rehearing, in reliance upon its power and duty
to modify its order if the new evidence warranted such
change.
3. When the bills were filed the carriers insisted that
the order was the result of a mistake of law, in that the
Commission held that the long maintenance of the 40 cent
rate raised a presumption that it was reasonable, because
the carriers had been earning a reasonable profit.: But we
need not consider whether, under such circumstances, the
maintenance of the admittedly low rate raised any presumption of reasonableness; or, if so, whether it is not
neutralized by the presumption of right conduct by the
carrier as primary ratemaker (Interstate Com. Con. v.
Chicago &c., 209 U. S. 108, 119). For whatever influenced
the Commission in restoring the rates to the Pembina line

INT. COM. COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 551
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

-as to which there is now no appeal-it is evident that as
to points east of that line they did not act on any presumption that the did 40 cent rate was reasonable. On the conttary, they acted directly contrary to any such presumption, and instead of maintaining the old rate, allowed a
new and higher rate to St. Paul, permitting an advance
of five cents per hundred, or 12/2 per cent, or between
$500,000 and $1,000,000 per annum, to the Great Northern ioad alone.
4. And this brings us to a consideration of the Master's
finding, approved by the Circuit Court, that in fixing a
rate of 45 cents to St. Paul, the order on its face was void
because, with traffic conditions over the three roads practically the same; the Commission allowed the high rate of
50 cents to the short route and the low rate of 45 cents to
the long route. It was argued that when the Commission
had adjudged that a rate of 50 cents for 1,800 miles was
reasonable, it was manifestly unreasohable to allow a rate
of 45 cents for 2,052 miles, and that such order was so palpably unjust and unreasonable as to be beyond the substance, if not beyond the form, of the Commission's power.
It does not follow, as a matter of law, that rates should
be the same for the same distance over two different roads,
and this would be especially true if the cost of transportation was greater over the Union Pacific than over the
Northern lines because it crossed the mountains 2,000
feet higher than they.
But, with the Master's finding that traffic conditions
were practically the same, it might be that the order would
appear unreasonable on its face, if it fixed the high rate
over the short route and the low rate, with less revenue,
per ton, per mile, over the long route. But.the order cannot be considered by itself alone. It -mustbe read in the
light of the entire record, including the important fact
that the carriers themselves, in making their rates, made a
similar difference between the long and the short line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

By their own tariffs they clearly show that they did not
consider mere distance a controlling factor in fixing the
rates now under attack. And this is not exceptional, for
it appears that they make rates from basing points to
common points, with the result that two cars of lumber,
of the same weight, may be shipped from the same place,
over the same line, at the same rate to different points,
although the distance one car is hauled may be several
hundred miles greater than the other.
But the fact that the carriers themselves, in 1893, 1901
and 1907, charged more to Omaha than to St. Paul is a
much weightier fact in considering this attack on the order. - In making the difference between these two cities
the Commission only did what the carriers themselves had
done, under their old and new rates. After 1901, the rate
to Omaha was 50 cents and the rate to St. Paul, over the
longer route was 40 cents. In the 1907 tariff, now under
consideration, the rate to Omaha, over the short route,
was fixed by them at 55 cents; and that to St. Paul, for
the longer route, was fixed at 50 cents. This was a difference of 5 cents in favor of the -short route. The Commission made the same difference in favor of the same
road.
This difference is supported by what the record shows
as to rates to points on the Pembina line. Inasmuch as no
appeal was taken from the refusal to enjoin their restoration, we may assume that all parties adndt these rates to
be reasonable. But there was a difference as to rates to
points on this line which shows that the per mile ratio cannot be regarded as a necessary standard. For example,
the rate to Omaha, on the lower part of this line was 50
cents, while the rate to points on the northern end was 40
cents. This was a difference of 20 per cent in favor of
Omaha, although there was no such difference in the distance. Again, timber shipped from the coast to St. Paul,
passed through this 40 cent point on the northern end of

INT. COM. COMM. v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. 553
222 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Pembina line. The distance from the coast to St.
Paul was one-eighth greater, and the advance allowed was
one-eighth, or five cents over the 40 cent rate.
It is quite true that the carriers may do what they could
not be compelled to do. But it is not to be assumed that
they made and continued these different rates between
these two cities arbitrarily and without reason. It was
proper for the Commission to consider the weight and the
character of these reasons and the causes which prompted
and justified the carriers in charging these different rates.
When the Commission maintained the same ratio of difference as that made by the carriers themselves, it cannot
be fairly said that such an order was so arbitrary as to be
palpably and gravely unjust, and beyond the substance,
if not the form, of its power.
5. A final point remains to be considered, although it
involves an issue not presented by the pleadings, not included in the Master's repori and not passed on by the
Circuit Court. It is,. however, argued that on this appeal
the record may be searched and the decree affirmed because, in making its order, the Commission was influenced
solely by a consideration 'of the effect of the advance in
rates on the lumber industry.
It does appear that the lumber men, in their complaints
before the Commission, alleged that the advanced rates
were unreasonable; and, apparently on the theory that the
injurious effect on their business would sustain that contention, they alleged that the new rate would destroy the
lumber industry. Issue seems to have been joined on both
propositions, and there were mutual criminations and recriminations of prosperity-the lumber men insisting that
the railroads had made large profits under the old rate,
and did not need the advance, which would destroy the
ability of the lumber men to ship lumber to the east.
The carriers,, on the other hand, contended that the 40
cent rate had opened up new markets and developed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S.

lumber business to a point where it had-become enormously profitable, and would continue so under the advanced rates, because white pine had practically disappeared from the market, and that the increased price of
lumber more than made up for the increased cost of timber
and labor.
It is true, also, that the Commission examined into the
effect of the old and the new rate on carrier and lumber men
alike. But we do not find that it made the order because
of the effect on the lumber industry. In the Willamette
Case (219 U. S. 445), counsel for the mill men admitted
that the rate there under attack was reasonable in and of
itself, but insisted that statements of officers and action
of the carrier operated to estop the road from raising a low
rate up to a reasonable rate.
Nothing of the sort is found here. The rates were attacked as unreasonable, and, on evidence alrea.dy referred
to, the Commission found that the old rates to the Pembina
line were reasonable and could not be changed, but that
there, might be a reasonable increase to points east of that
line, not to exceed five cents.
While there is language in the opinion which, looked at
alone, might suggest that the Commission was attempting
to decide more than the single question as to what was a
reasonable rate, yet, taking the opinion as a whole, it affirmatively appears that the Commission confined itself
to the exercise of its statutory powers to fix rates. In its
opinion it did discuss the issue of prosperity presented by
mill men and carriers alike, but held (p. .14) thatt .
This controversy cannot be determined
wholly upon the ground that complainants have enjoyed
the lower rate for many years and that interests have
been built up thereunder, and that loss of business investments, profits and markets will result under the increased
rates. It must be determined on the justness or reasonIf the old
ableness of the rates in controversy. .

FITZ GERALD v. THOMPSON.
222 U. S.

Syllabus.

rates were too low to be just and reasonable, complainants
[knill men] cannot urge their loss as a ground for maintaining them; if the old rates were just and reasonable, the
defendants caninot justify the advance on the ground of
the prosperity of the lumber business."
Considering the case as a whole, we cannot say that the
order was made because of the effect of the advance on
the lumber industry; nor because of a mistake of law as to
presumptions arising from the long continuance of the
low rate, when the carrier was earning dividends; nor that
there was no evidence to support the finding. If so, the
Commission acted within its power and, in view of the
statute, its lawful orders cannot be enjoined. The decree,
therefore, must be
Reversed.

FITZ GERALD v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 849.

Submitted December 18, 1911.-Decided January 15, 1912.

Where the record plainly shows that to convert a party defendant
into' a party plaintiff would be wholly inconsistent with the relief
which it is the object of the suit to obtain, the court will not realign such defendant as a plaintiff so as to enable another defendant
to ren'iove the ease to the Federal court.
Where, as in this case, the plaintiffs charge one of the defendants with
repudiation of obligations and ask his removal as trustee, the claim
made at the instance of a co-defendant seeking to remove the case,
that he should be realigned as a party plaintiff, is manifestly frivolous.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

