OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

USNER v. LUCKENBACH OVERSEAS CORP.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 47. Argued November 18, 1970Decided January 25, 1971
Isolated, personal act of negligence by a fellow longshoreman resulting in injury to petitioner did not make shipowner liable -on
ground of unseaworthiness of vessel, as injury was not caused by
ship's condition, appurtenances, c~rgo, or crew. There is a "complete divorcement of unseaworthiness liability from concepts of
negligence." Mitchell v. Trawler Racer, 362 U. S.-539, 550. Pp.
496-500.
413 F. 2d 984, affirmed.
STEWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and WHITE, MARSHALL, and BLACKMUN, JJ., joined. DouGLAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion in which BLcK and BRENNAN, JJ.,
joined, post, p. 501. HARLAN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p.
503.

H. Alva Brumfield argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Evangeline M. Vavrick and
H. Alva Brumfield III.
Charles Kohlmeyer, Jr., argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief were Thomas W. Thorne,
Jr., and Benjamin W. Yancey.
Arthur J. Mandell filed a brief for the American Trial
Lawyers Association as amicus curiae urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner, a longshoreman employed by an independent stevedoring contractor, was injured while engaged with his fellow employees in loading cargo aboard

USNER v. LUCKENBACH OVERSEAS CORP.

494

Opinion of the Court

the S. S. Edgar F. Luckenbach. He brought this action
for damages against the respondents, the owner and the
charterer of the ship, in a federal district court, alleging
that his injuries had been caused by the ship's
unseaworthiness.
In the course of pretrial proceedings the circumstances
under which the petitioner had been injured were fully
disclosed, and they are not in dispute. On the day in
question the ship lay moored to a dock in New Orleans,
Louisiana, receiving cargo from a barge positioned alongside. The loading operations were being performed by
the petitioner and his fellow longshoremen under the
direction of their employer. Some of the men were on
the ship, operating the port winch and boom at the No. 2
hitch. The petitioner and others were on the barge,
where their job was to "break out" the bundles of cargo
by securing them to a sling attached to the fall each time
it was lowered from the ship's boom by the winch operator. The loading operations had been proceeding in
this manner for some time, until upon one occasion the
winch operator did not lower the fall far enough. Finding the sling beyond his reach, the petitioner motioned to
the flagman standing on the deck of the ship to direct
the winch operator to lower the fall farther. The winch
operator then lowered the fall, but he lowered it too far
and too fast. The sling struck the petitioner, knocking
him to the deck of the barge and causing his injuries.
Neither before nor after this occurrence was any difficulty
experienced with the winch, boom, fall, sling, or any other
equipment or appurtenance of the ship or her cargo.
The respondents moved for summary judgment in the
District Court, upon the ground that a single negligent
act by a fellow longshoreman could not render the ship
unseaworthy. The District Court denied the motion,
but granted the respondents leave to take an interlocutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

appeal under 28 U. S. C. ยง 1292 (b). 1 The United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit allowed the appeal
and, reversing the District Court, directed that the
respondents' motion for summary judgment be granted.
413 F. 2d 984. It was the appellate court's view that
"'[i]nstant unseaworthiness' resulting from 'operational
negligence' of the stevedoring contractor is not a basis
for recovery by an injured longshoreman." 413 F. 2d,
at 98*986. We granted certiorari, 397 U. S.933, because
of a conflict among the circuits on the basic issue presented.2
The development in admiralty law of the doctrine of
unseaworthiness as a predicate for a shipowner's liability
for personal injuries or death has been fully chronicled
elsewhere, and it would serve no useful purpose to repeat
the details of that development here.3 Suffice it to recall
1 28

U. S. C. ยง 1292 (b) provides as follows:
"When a district judge, in making in a civil action an order not
otherwise appealable under this section, shall be of the opinion that
such order involves a controlling question of. law as to which there
is substantial ground for difference of opinion and that an immediate
appeal from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation, he shall so state in writing in such order.
The Court of Appeals may thereupon, in its discretion, permit an
appeal to be taken from such order, if application is made to it
within ten days after the entry of the order: Provided, however,
That application for an appeal hereunder shall'not stay proceedings
in the district court unless the district judge or the Court of Appeals
or a judge thereof shall so order."
2 Compare Candiano v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 382 F. 2d 961
(CA2); Alexander v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 382 F. 2d 963 (CA2);
Cleary v. United States Lines Co., 411 F. 2d 1009 (CA2); and
Venable v. A/S' Det Forenede Dampskibsselskab, 399 F. 2d 347
(CA4), with Grigsby v. Coastal Marine Service, 412 F., 2d 1011
(CA5), and Tim v. American President Lines, 409 F. 2d 385 (CA9).
3 See Mitchell v. Trawler Racer, 362 U. S.539; id., at 550 (Frankfurter, J., dissenting); see also, G.* Gihnore & C. Black, The Law of
Admiralty 315-332 (1957); Tetreault, Seamen, Seaworthiiess, and
the Rights of Harbor Workers, 39 Cornell L. Q. 381.

USNER v. LUCKENBACH OVERSEAS CORP.
494

Opinion of the Court

that from its humble origin as a dictum in an obscure
case in 1922," the doctrine of liability based upon unseaworthiness has experienced a most extraordinary expansion in a series of cases decided by this Court over the last
25 years.'

The Court's decisions in some of those cases

have been severely questioned, by dissenting Justices and
by others, on the basis of history, reason, and logic.' The
present case, however, offers no occasion to re-examine
any of our previous decisions. We may accept it as fully
settled that a shipowner's liability for an unseaworthy

vessel extends beyond the members of the crew and in4 Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger,259 U. S. 255. There it was
said, "[W]e think'the trial court might have told the jury that without regard to negligence the vessel was unseaworthy when she left the
dock . .. and that if thus unseaworthy and one of the crew received
damage as the direct result thereof, he was entitled to recover
compensatory damages." 259 U. S., at 259.
5 Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S.96; Seas Shipping Co.
v. Sieracki, 328 U. S.85; Pope & Talbot, Inc. v. Hawn, 346 U. S.
406; Alaska Steamship Co. v. Petterson, 347 U. S. 396; Rogers v.
United States Lines, 347 U. S. 984; Boudoin v. Lykes Bros. S. S. Co.,
348 U. S. 336; Crumady v. The J. H. Fisser, 358 U. S.423; Mitchell
v. Trawler Racer, 362 U. S. 539; A. & G. Stevedores v. Elierman
Lines, 369 U. S. 355; Gutierrez v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 373 U. S.
206; Waldron v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 386 U. S. 724.
6 See, e. g., Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., supra, at 105 (Roberts,
J., joined by Frankfurter, J., dissenting), Seas Shipping Co. v.
Sieracki, supra, at 103 (Stone, C. J., joined by Frankfurter and
Burton, JJ., dissenting); Pope & Talbot, Inc. v. Hawn, supra, at
419 (Jackson, .J., joined by Reed and Burton, JJ., dissenting);
Alaska Steamship Co. v. Petterson, supra (Burton, J., joined by
Frankfurter and Jackson, JJ., dissenting); Mitchell v. Trawler Racer,
supra, at 550 (Frankfurter, J., joined by HARLAN and Whittaker,
JJ., dissenting); Gutierrez v. Waterman S. S. Corp, supra, at 216
(HARLAN, J., dissenting); Waldron v. Moore-McCormack Lines,
supra, at 729 (WHITE, J., joined by HARLAN, BRENNAN, and STEWART,

JJ., dissenting).

See also G. Gilmore & C. Black, The Law of Admiralty 315-332
(1957); Tetreault, Seamen, Seaworthiness, and the Rights of Harbor
Workers, 39 Cornell L. Q. 381.

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

cludes a longshoreman like the petitioner.7 We may
accept it as settled, too, that the shipowner is liable though
the unseaworthiness be transitory,8 and though the injury be suffered elsewhere than aboard the ship.' But
these propositions do not dispose of the case before us.
For the question here goes to the very definition of what
unseaworthiness is and what it is not.
A major burden of the Court's decisions spelling out
the nature and scope of the cause of action for unseaworthiness has been insistence upon the point that it is
a remedy separate from, independent of, and additional
to other claims against the shipowner, whether created
by statute 10 or under general maritime law.1" More
specifically, the-Court has repeatedly taken pains to point
out that liability based upon unseaworthiness is wholly
distinct from liability based upon negligence. 12 The reason, of course, is that unseaworthiness is a condition,
and how that condition came into being-whether by
negligence or otherwise-is quite irrelevant to the owner's
liability for personal injuries resulting from it.
We had occasion to emphasize this basic distinction
again in Mitchell v. Trawler Racer, 362 U. S. 539. There
the unseaworthy condition causing the plaintiff's injury
Seas Shipping Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U. S. 85.
v. The J. H. Fisser, 358 U. S. 423; Mitchell v. Trawler
Racer, 362 U. S. 539.
9Gutierrez v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 373 U. S. 206.
10 E. g., the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. ยง 688. The petitioner in the present case was fully covered, of course, by the provisions of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act, 33 U. S. C. ยง 901 et seq.
11 E. g., maintenance and cure. See Calmar S. S. Corp. v. Taylor,
303 U. S. 525; Waterman S. S. Corp. v. Jones, 318 U. S. 724; Farrell
v. United States, 336 U. S. 511; Warren v. United States, 340 U. S.
523.
12 E. g., Seas Shipping Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U. S. 85, 94: "[T]he
liability is neither limited by conceptions of negligence nor contractual in character."
8 Crumady

USNER v. LUCKENBACH OVERSEAS CORP.
494

Opinion of the Court

'was a ship's rail made slippery by the presence of fish
gurry and slime. The trial judge had instructed the
jury that the shipowner could be held liable for this unseaworthy condition only upon a finding that the slime
and gurry had been on the ship's rail for a time long
enough for the respondent to have learned about it and
to have removed it. The Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment for the defendant shipowner, holding that at
least with respect to "an unseaworthy condition which
arises only during the progress of the voyage," the shipowner's obligation "is merely to see that reasonable care is
used under the circumstances . . . incident to the correc-

tion of the newly arisen defect." 265 F. 2d 426, 432. We
reversed the judgment, holding that the trial and appellate courts had been wrong in confusing liability for
negligence with liability for unseaworthiness. What has
evolved in our case law, we said, is the "complete divorcement of unseaworthiness liability from. concepts of negligence." 362 U. S., at 550.
Trawler Racer involved the defective condition of a
physical part of the ship itself. But our cases have held
that the scope of unseaworthiness is by no means so
limited. A vessel's condition of unseaworthiness might
arise from any number of circumstances. Her gear might
be defective,"3 her appurtenances in disrepair, 4 her crew
unfit. 5 The number of men assigned to perform a shipboard task might be insufficient.16

The method of load-

ing her cargo, or the manner of its stowage, might be improper." For any of these reasons, or others, a vessel
might not be reasonably fit for her intended service.
Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96.
Shipping Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U. S. 85.
15Boudoin v. Lykes Bros. S. S. Co., 348 U. S.336.
16 Waldron v. Moore-MdCormack Lines, 386 U. S. 724.
17 A. & G. Stevedores v. Ellerman Lines, 369 U. S. 355; Gutierrez
v. Waterman S. S.Corp., 373 U. S. 206.
13

14Seas

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

What caused the petitioner's injuries in the present
case, however, was not the condition of the ship, her appurtenances, her cargo, or her crew, 8 but the isolated,
personal negligent act of the petitioner's fellow longshoreman. To hold that this individual act of negligence
rendered the ship unseaworthy would be to subvert the
fundamental distinction between inseaworthiness and
negligence that we have so painstakingly and repeatedly
emphasized in our decisions.19 Irr Trawler Racer, supra,
there existed a condition of unseaworthiness, and we
held it was error to require a finding of negligent conduct
in order to hold the shipowner liable. The case before
us presents the other side of the same coin. For it would
be equally erroneous here, where no condition of unseaworthiness existed, to hold the shipowner liable for a
third party's single and wholly unforeseeable act of negligence... The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
affirmed.
It is so ordered.
18 No member of the ship's crew was in any way involved in this
case.
19 The petitioner's reliance upon our summary per curiam reversal
of a judgment for the shipowner in Mascuilli v. United States, 387
U. S. 237, is misplaced. There a longshoreman had been killed during a loading operation aboard a Government vessel when, under the
strain of the opposing pull of two winches, a heavy shackle parted,
recoiled, and struck him. The petition for certiorari posed three
questions: (1) Did a prior unseaworthy condition come into play
by the tightline condition? (2) Did the negligent handling of proper
equipment by the longshoremen create a dangerous condition rendering the vessel unsea*orthy? (3) Was the vessel unseaworthy because the longshoremen were not "equal in disposition and seamanship to the ordinary men in the calling," as was found in Boudoin v.
Lykes Bros. S. S. Co., 348 U. S. 336?
Our per curiam reversal cited two cases: Mahnich v. Southern
S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96, and Crumady v. The J. H. Fisser, 358 U. S.
423. Mahnich involved a'defective rope, Crumdly a defective winch.
It seems evident, therefore, that it was the first question posed by
the petition for certiorari to which the Court gave an affirmative

answer.

USNER v. LUCKENBACH OVERSEAS CORP.
494

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN' concur, dissenting.

While petitioner was working on a barge loading cargo
into a hatch of the ship, he was injured as a result of
the negligent operation of a winch. The winch was
part of the ship and the winch operator was a member
of the crew of the stevedores. The injury was caused by
a lowering of a sling, which carried the cargo, too quickly
and too far.
Prior to the 1970 Term the judgment denying recovery
would have been reversed, probably out of hand. We
held in Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96, that
the obligation of an owner to furnish a seaworthy ship
extends to seaworthy appliances. We also held that the
owner was not insulated from liability by the "negligent
failure" of his officers or members of the crew to furnish
seaworthy appliances. Id., at 101. In Mahnich, the
staging from which the seaman fell was an unseaworthy
appliance because of the defective rope with which it
was rigged. There was sound rope on board but defective rope was used. The fact that the mate and boatswain were negligent in selecting defective rope was held
to be no defense.
In Crumady v. The J. H. Fisser,358 U. S. 423, a winch
was not inherently defective as was the rope in Mahnich.
But it was used in a way which made it unsafe and
dangerous for the work at hand. While the rigging
would take only three tons of stress, the cutoff of the
winch, "its safety device," was set at twice that limit.
Id., at 427. And so the rope sling broke and injured
the seaman. The vessel which paid the damages was
allowed to recover over from the stevedores whose
negligence with the winch made the vessel pro tanto
unseaworthy.
In Mascuilli v. United States, 387 U. S. 237, negligent
use of a winch in a loading operation so obviously made

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

DouGLAs, J., dissenting

400 U. S.

the vessel pro tanto unseaworthy that we reversed out
of hand a judgment of no liability, citing Mahnich and
Crumady.
What we said in Mitchell v. Trawler Racer, 362 U. S.
539, 550, about the "complete divorcement of unseaworthiness liability from concepts of negligence" related
to a condition which made the vessel not "reasonably
suitable for her intended service." Yet alongside that conventional type of unseaworthiness there developed the
concept of unseaworthiness resulting from operational
negligence.
Indeed, the doctrine of operational negUgence which
causes unseaworthiness has had a sturdy growth. Chief
Justice Stone, writing for the Court in Mahnich,.'showed
,that this doctrine goes at least as far back as The
Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, decided in 1903. See 321 U. S.,
at 101-104. The intervening decision of Plamals v. Pinar
del Rio, 277 U. S. 151, which looked the other way, was
decided in 1928. It Was around that case that Justices
Roberts and Frankfurter turned their dissent, saying
that unless the Court followed precedent ,"the law becomes not a chart to govern conduct but a game of
chance; instead of settling rights and liabilities it unsettles them." 321 U. S., at 112. They added:
"Respect for tribunals must fall when the bar
and the public come to understand that nothing that
has been said in prior adjudication has force in a
current controversy." Id., at 113.
Justices Roberts and Frankfurter bitterly expressed
that view in Mahnich when Pinardel Rio was overruleda freak decision not in keeping with the mainstream of
the law that had come before.
Changes in membership do change decisions; and those
changes are expected at the level of constitutional law.
But when private rights not rooted in the Constitution

USNER v. LUCKENBACH OVERSEAS CORP.
494

HARLAN, J.,

dissenting

are at issue, it is surprising to find law made by new
judges taking the place of law made by prior judges.
Up to today operational negligence has been one sturdy
type of unseaworthiness.* I would let it continue as the
prevailing rule unless Congress in its wisdom changes it.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

Past decisions of this Court have expanded the doctrine
of unseaworthiness almost to the point of absolute liability. I have often protested against this development.
See, e. g., the cases cited by the Court, ante, at 497 n. 6.
But, I must in good conscience regard the particular
issue in this case as having been decided by Crumady v.
The J. H. Fisser, 358 U. S. 423 (1959), even if prior deS*The Second Circuit adopted the view that while one act of
operational negligence would not make a vessel unseaworthy, unseaworthiness did result if the negligent act was incident to a continuous course of operation as where a wrong hatch cover was
used, Grillea v. United States, 232 F. 2d 919, but not by an isolated
act as where a boom was carrying a dangerous stress due to a
negligent act. Puddu v. Royal Netherlands S. S. Co., 303 F. 2d 752.
The difference in the two cases was stated as follows:
"A ship is not unseaworthy because it has glass in a window which
might be broken. The injuries of a seaman who negligently breaks
such a glass are not the result of unseaworthiness, nor are the
injuries of a seaman who is cut by the falling glass. But injury
incurred in stepping on the broken glass does result from unseaworthiness." Id., at 757.
The Second Circuit, however, refused to follow Grillea after our
Mascuilli decision. Candiano v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 382 F.
2d 961; Alexander v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 382 F. 2d 963; Cleary
v. United States Lines Co., 411 F. 2d 1009; Tarabocchiav. Zim Israel
Navigation Co., 417 F. 2d 476. The Fourth Circuit followed suit.
Venable V. A/S Det Forenede Dampskibsselskab, 399 F. 2d 347;
Lundy v. Isthmian Lines, 423 F. 2d 913.
Only the Fifth Circuit in the instant case and in Grigsby v. Coastal
Marine Service, 412 F. 2d 1011, and the Ninth in Tim, v. American
President Lines, 409 F. 2d 385, stood against the rule of Mascuilli.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
HARLAN,

J., dissenting

400 U. S.

cisions did not inexorably point to that result. As my
Brother DOUGLAS states, Crumady cannot justly be distinguished from the case before us. Much as I would
welcome a thoroughgoing re-examination of the past
course of developments in the unseaworthiness doctrine, I
fear that the Court's action today can only result in compounding the current difficulties of the lower courts with
this area of the law.

