OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Syllabus

400 U. S.

PORT OF BOSTON MARINE TERMINAL ASSN.
ET AL. V. REDERIAKTIEBOLAGET
TRANSATLANTIC
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF kPPEALS
FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT

No. 99.

Argued October

2, 1970-Decided December 8, 1970

Petitioner Terminal Association, a maritime terminal operators conference. operating under an agreement approved by the Federal
Maritime Commission (FMC), pursuant to §.15 of the Shipping
Act, 1916, revised a tariff on file with the agency by shifting
the incidence of a wharf demuri'age charge from consignees to
carriers. When several carriers refused to pay the revised charge,
which -had not previously been approved by the FMC, the Terminal Association sued the association that represented them and
their agents (Shipping Association). The District Court stayed
the proceedings to allow the Shipping Association to obtain from
,the FMC a ruling- on the validity of the change. After a hearing,
the FMC concluyed, on June 23, 1967, that its prior, approval df
the revised tariff was not necessary under § 15 of the Act. On
September 19, 1967, the Shipping, Association filed with the
Court of Appeals a petition for review which that court dismissed
for lateness. On September 4.,
'1968, respondent, a carrier that
had been assessed charges, made application to the FMC for reconsideration (on the basis of a'decision this Court rendered after
the FMC's ruling), which the FMC returned as untimely filed
under its -rules. Thereupon respondent, contending that its agent
had inadequately represented it in the proceeding brought by
the Shipping' Association, sought and was allowed to intervene
in the still-pending action in the -District Court. That court,
concluding that the FMC had primary jurisdiction of the subject matter of the dispute and that the* District Court did not
have jurisdiction to review the FMC's decision,. rendered judgment against the Shipping:Association and respondent. Respondent appealed. The Court of Appeals reversed on the merits,
after, concluding that respondent was not a party to the FMC
proceeding and was therefore free to seek independent collateral
review in the District Court of that agency's order. Held:
1. The FMC, the agency responsible under the Shipping Act
for, supervising conferences of marine terminal operators and

MARINE TERMINAL v. REDERI. TRANSATLANTIC

63

Opinion of the Court

62

uniquely qualified to consider disputes involving overall conference
policies, had primary jurisdiction over the question whether prior
administrative approval of the tariff amendment was required.
Pp . 68-69.
2. The District Court correctly concluded that it had no authority to review the FMC's decision, which constituted a final order
and as such, under the Administrative Orders Review Act, was
exclusively reviewable by the Court of Appeals. Pp. 69-71.
3. Respondent, having been represented by its agent in the
administrative hearing and having also had evely opportunity to
participate before the FMC and to seek timely review in the
Court of Appeals, cannot collaterally attack the FMC's order.
Pp. 71-72.
4. When -the case returned to the District Court, the time for
review by the Court of Appeals had expired, precluding any
judicial review of the FMC decision on the merits. P. 72.
420 F. 2d 419, reversed.
MARSHALL,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

John M. Reed argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioners.
George F. Galland argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
Daniel M. Friedman argued the cause for the United
States et al. as amici curiae. On the brief were Solicitor
General Griswold, Assistant Attorney General McLaren,

Deputy Solicitor General Springer, Irw*in A. Seibel, and
Gordon M.. Shaw.
-

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The underlying dispute here is whether vessel owners
or consignees will pay charges' for cargo left on the
wharves at- the Port of Boston. But the central quesThe charge involved is. "wharf demurrage," the, charge Assessed
when cargo remains on tfie pier or whArf after five. days, the free
- time at the Port of Boston. See n. 5, infra.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

tion we face is whether a resolution of this dispute by
the Federal Maritime Commission is binding on respondent. We believe that the Court of Appeals was in error
in holding that the Commission's determination was not
binding. Accordingly, we reverse.
The Port of Boston Marine Terminal Association is
a conference of maritime terminal operators acting pursuant to an agreement ' approved in 1962 by the Federal
Maritime Commission.3 'Prior to 1964, the Terminal
Association administered a tariff,4 on file with the Commission, which assessed charges against a consignee whenever cargo remained on a pier or wharf for more than
five days. 5 In that year, the Terminal Association, without prior approval of the Commission, shifted the incidence of the tariff so that a daily fee of one-half cent
per 100 pounds was charged' a carrier-vessel whenever the failure to remove cargo resulted from a strike
by longshoremen.
In 1965 there was a longshoremen's strike that 'caused
cargo to be left on the wharves beyond the five-dayfree time-limit. Several vessels refused to pay the revised charges; and the Terminal Association brought a
state court action for damages and declaratory relief
2

Agreement No. 8785. ,The agreement set out the basic scheme
-for the protected price fixing engaged in by the terminal operators.
3 See § 15' of the Shipping Act, 1916, 39 Stat. 733, as amended,
46 U. S. C. § 814.
4 The basic wharf demurrage charge was assessed against the consignee at a daily rate of 21/2 cents per 100 pounds. Under the
pre-194 tariff, if factors beyond the control of the consignee or
shipper prevented cargo removal, wharf demurrage would be assessed
against the consignee at a daily rate of 1 cent per 100 pounds.
5 When cargo qis brought to the wharf it is considered reasonable
for there to be a delay of up to five days before the cargo is
loaded on the vessel or taken away by the consignee.

MARINE TERMINAL v. REDERI. TRANSATLANTIC
62

65

Opinion of the Court

against the Boston Shipping Association, an organization representing vessel owners and their agents. Following removal to the United States District Court, the
Shipping Association defended on the grounds that the
revised tariff was not within the scope of the 1962 Terminal Association agreement and could not become effective without Commission approval. 7
The District Court stayed the proceedings to allow the
Shipping Association to obtain a ruling by the Commission on the validity of the change. On June 23,
1967, after a full evidentiary hearing, the Commission issued a report and order concluding that prior
approval was not necessary because shifting the incidence of the charge did not "constitute a new agreement
or a modification to the existing agreement calling for a
new . . . rate-fixing scheme not contemplated in the
original agreement." 1 The Commission also approved
the change in the fee structure insofar as the change
affected cargo that was in free time when the strike
started but held that it was unreasonable within the
meaning of § 17 of the Shipping Act, 46 U. S. C. § 816, 9
6

The members of the Shipping Association, including Furness,
Withy & Co., Ltd., Transatlantic's agent at the Port, of Boston',
were also named as defendants.
7 See Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. FMC, 390 U. S. 261
(1968).
8Boston Shipping Assn. v. Port of Boston Marine Terminal
Assn., 10 F. M. C. 409, 414 (1967).
9"No common carrier by water in foreign commerce shall demand,
charge, or collect any rate, fare, or charge which is unjustly discriminatory between shippers or ports, or unjustly prejudicial to
exporters of the United States as compared with their foreign
competitors. Whenever the Federal Maritime Board finds that any
such rate, fare, or charge is demanded, charged, or collected it may
alter the same to-the extent necessary to coirrect such unjust discrimination or prejudice and make an order that the carrier shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

to assess charges against the vessel when the cargo was
not in free time 1o at the start of the strike.
On September 19, 1967, the Shipping Association petitioned the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit for review. But since the petition was filed
after the expiration- of the 60-day period specified in the
Administrative Orders -Review Act, 28 U. S. C. § 2344
(1964 ed., Supp. V), the petition was dismissed as unOn September 4, 1968, Rederiaktiebolaget
timely.
Transatlantic, respondent here and one of the carriervessels that had been assessed charges, filed an appli-

cation with the Commission for reconsideration.

Trans-

atlantic claimed that it had been represented by an
agent 11 in the proceeding brought by the Shipping Association and thus had standing to request a rehearing.
discontinue demanding, charging, or collecting any such unjustly
discriminatory or prejudicial rate, fare, or charge.
"Every such carrier and every other person subject to this
chapter shall establish, observe, and enforce just and reasonable
regulations and practices relating to or connected with the receiving,
handling, storing, or delivering of property. Whenever the Board,
finds that any such regulation or practice is unjust or unreasonable
it may determine, prescribe, and order enforced a just and reasonable regulation or practice." 46 U. S. C. § 816.
10 The Commission also held that the shift in the incidence of
the charge did not conflict with the rights and duties of a carrier
under the regular legally binding tariff. It found a pre-existing
duty on the carrier not only to deposit the cargo on the pier but
also to arrange for the consignee to. have access to the cargo and
sufficient time, i. e., free time, to remove it.
11 Transatlantic's petition for reconsideration stated that "[i]t
is represented in Boston by its Agent, Furness, Withy & Co."
and that "Furness, Withy is a member of . . . Shipping . . . which,
with its-meraber lines, filed the complaint in this proceeding [before
the Commissionl ." The petition further stated that the Terminal
Association claimed the sums "from Furness, Withy as agent of petitioner under the disputed tariff provisions."

MARINE TERMINAL v. REDERI. TRANSATLANTIC

67

Opinion of the Court

62

Transatlantic urged that the Commission's decision was
inconsistent with this Court's intervening decision in
Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. FMC, 390 U. S. 261
(1968), in that the Commission had held the tariff change
could be effective without prior approval. The Commission did not, however, pass on the claim but returned
the petition as untimely under its Rules of Practice and
Procedure.2
Transatlantic did not seek direct judicial review of the
,ommission's denial of the application for rehearing. Instead, it moved to intervene "sin the action still pending
in the District Court. Transatlantic argued that. its
agent had provided inadequate representation and that
it would be liable for a substantial portion of any judgment rendered against the agent. Intervention was
granted., The District Court refused, however, to review- the merits of the Cominission's decision 'and
rendered judgment against the Shipping Association and
14
Transatlantic.
Transatlantic, the only defendant to appeal, was more
successful in the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
That court concluded that Transatlantic was not a party
to the Commission proceed ing and, therefore, was free to
seek independent collateral review of the merits of the
Commission's order in the District Court. The Court of
Appeals also accepted Transatlantic's position on the
12Petitions for reconsideration are required to be filed within
"30 days after issuance of a final decision or order by the Commission .

.

. "

46 CFR § 502.261.

13See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 24 (a).
14The judgment entered by the District Court did not specify
Transatlantic as one of the parties-defendant directly liable to the
terminal operators. -Itdid, however, provide that Transatlantic's
agent, Furness, Withy & Co., was' liable for $10,708.87. It is
claimed that Transatlantic will be liable for $8,154.85 of this
amount.

OCTOBER TERM, .1970

Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

merits and reversed, 5 concluding that the Commission's
ruling was indeed inconsistent with Volkswagenwerk.
I
Transatlantic argues that the District Court erred at
the outset in referring the case to the Commission. But
this Court recognized early in the development of administrative agencies that coordination between traditional
judicial machinery and these agencies was necessary
if consistent and coherent policy were to emerge.
See Texas & P. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426 (1907). The doctrine of primary jurisdiction
has become one of the key judicial switches through
which this current has passed.,' When there is a basis
for judicial action, independent of agency proceedings,
courts may route the threshold decision as to certain
issues to the agency charged with primary responsibility
for governmental supervision or control of the particular
industry or activity involved. Whitney National Bank
v. Bank of New Orleans, 379 U. S. 411, 425 (1965). Far
East Conference v. United States, 342 U". S.570, 574-575
(1952).
This is an almost classic case for engaging the doctrine. Plainly, the Federal Maritime Commission is
primarily responsible for supervising these conferences
of marine terminal operators. Just five years earlier, the
Commission approved the very agreement that established the basic pattern of this conference's'operation, and
the scope of this same agreement was the subject of the
Boston Marine Terminal Assn. v. Boston Shipping
Assn., Inc., 420 F. 2d 419 (CA1 1970).
16Civil Aeronautics Board v. Modern Air Transport, 179 F. 2d
622, 625 (CA2 1950); 3 K. Davis, Administrative Law §§ 19.0115

Porto

19.07 (1958); Jaffe, Primary Jurisdiction Reconsidered.

Trust Laws, 102 U. Pa. L. Rev. 577 t1954).

The Anti-

MARINE TERMINAL v. REDERI. TRANSATLANTIC
62

69

Opinion of the Court

present dispute. The Commission was uniquely qualified
to consider the dispute in light of the overall policies concerning terminal conferences and the conferences' relationship with both carrier-vessels and consignees. The.
District Court did not err in determining, for purposes
of this litigation, that an Article III court, acting on a
single, isolated case-and-controversy record in a private
suit in which neither the Commission nor the Government was a party, would lack the requisite capacity.
Tampa Phosphate R. Co. v. Seaboard Coast Line R. Co.,
418 F. 2d 387, 402-404 (concurring opinion) (CA5 1969).
II
The District Court also concluded correctly that it
was without authority to review the merits of the Commission's decision. The Administrative Orders Review
Act is explicit: "The court of appeals has exclusive jurisdiction to . . . determine the validity of . . . such final

orders of the Federal Maritime Commission ...
7." 28
U. S. C. § 2342 (1964 ed., Supp. V). Consolo v. FMC,
383 U. S. 607, 613 (1966); FarEast Conference v. United
States, 342 U. S. 570, 577 (1952).
It is true that § 31 of the Shipping Act, 46 U. S. C.
§ 830, states that "except as herein otherwise provided"
the procedures governing suits to "enforce, suspend, or
set aside, in whole or in part, any order of the [Federal
Maritime Commission]" 17 shall be the same as in similar suits in respect of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. It is also true that in 1964 Congress provided that when courts refer questions to the Interstate
Commerce Commission the referring court shall have
The agency entrusted with the duty of administering the
Shipping Act has undergone many. reorganizations and concomitant
name changes since its creation in 1916.
17

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

exclusive jurisdiction to review orders arising from the
referral. 28 U. S. C. § 1336 (b). 8
This Court in Consolo pointed out,1" however, that the
requirement of § 31 was subject to special provisions applicable to maritime cases "such as the provision in § 2
of the Administrative Orders Review Act that direct
review proceedings shall be conducted in the courts of
appeals rather than the district courts." 383 U. S., at
613. See D. L. Piazza Co. v. West CoastLine,Inc., 210 F.
2d 947 (CA2), cert. denied, 348 U. S. 839 (1954). Moreover, in the legislative history of the special statute providing for review of cases referred to the Commerce
Commission, there is not even a hint that Congress
thought of the Maritime Commission while considering
the problem. And to make the procedure adopted there
applicable to maritime cases would vitiate the scheme
of the Administrative Orders Review Act-a scheme designed to ensure that the Attorney General has an opportunity to represent the interest of the Government
whenever an order of one of the specified agencies is.
reviewed. 28 U. S. C. § 2348 (1964 ed., Supp. V).
Transatlantic argues that even if the -,Administrative
Orders Review Act provides the exclusive method for
reviewing final orders of the Maritime Commission, the
Commission's order here was not a final order. But its
argument that the order lacked finality because it had
18 "When a district court or-the Court of Claims refers a question
or issue to the Interstate Commerce Commission for determination,
the court which referred the question or issue shall have exclusive
jurisdiction of a civil action to enforce, enjoin, set aside, annul, or
suspend, in whole or in part, any order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission arising out of such referral." 28 U. S. C. § 1336 (b).
19 Volkswagenwerk, the basis for Transatlantic's claim that the
Commission erred, was referred to the CommissiQn by a district
court and the Commission's order was_ attacked directly in tfe
Court of Appeals. 390 U. S., at 266-267.

MARINE TERMINAL v. REDERI. TRANSATLANTIC
62

71

Opinion of the Court

no independent effect on anyone and resembled an interlocutory court order denying a motion to dismiss a complaint has the hollow ring of another era.20 Agency
orders that have no independent coercive effect are common. See Frozen Food Express v. United States, 351
U. S. 40, 44 (1956). Moreover, the relevant considerations in determining finality are whether the process of
administrative decisionmaking has reached a stage where
judicial review will not disrupt the orderly process of
adjudication and whether rights or obligations have
been determined or legal consequences will flow from
the agency action. ICC v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co.,
383 U. S. 576, 602 (1966); Rochester Telephone Corp. v.
United States, 307 U. S. 125, 143 (1939).
Here there was no possible disruption of the
administrative process; there was nothing else for the Commission to do. And certainly the Commission's action
was expected to and did have legal consequences.
The final proffered argument to justify a collateral
attack on the Commission's order is that Transatlantic
was not a party to the proceeding before the Commission
and not bound by the Commission's action. Although
Transatlantic was not named as a party, it was in fact
represented before the Commission and has previously
made numerous claims to party status. " In the petition
for reconsideration filed with the Commission, it asserted
that it had been represented in the administrative evidentiary proceeding through its agent. The claim was
also made in support of the' motion to intervene in the
resumed district court proceeding. There Transatlantic
alleged that "at all times" prior to the filing of the petition for reconsideration with the Commission it "had
20

See, e. g., Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346 (1911).
generally 3 K. Davis, supra, §§ 21.01-21.10.
21 See n. 11, supra.

See

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

400 U. S.

been represented by counsel for" its' agent and claimed
that this representation was inadequate.
Even if Transatlantic was not a formal party its
interests were clearly at stake. And it had every opportunity to participate before the Commission and then to
seek timely review in the Court of Appeals. :It chose not
to do so. Certainly, from this posture, it cannot force
collateral redetermination of the same issue in a different
and inappropriate forum. United States v. Western
P. R. Co., 352 U. S. 59, 69 (1956).
III
Since the time for*Court. of Appeals review had run,
the decision of the Federal Maritime Commission had
become final when the case returned to the District
Court. - After that return neither the District Court nor
any Court of Appeals nor this Court had or has authority
to review the merits of that decision.
Reversed.

