OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN CHAMBERS FROM END OF OCTOBER TERM, 1969,
THROUGH OCTOBER 10, 1970

ROCKEFELLER, GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK,
ET AL. V. SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY AND ON MOTION FOR
VACATION THEREOF

Decided July 11 and 22, 1970
Stay granted to preserve status quo ante to enable Court, at its
first Conference in October, to determine disposition of appeal.
Motion for reconsideration and vacation of stay denied on basis
of appellants' representation that appellee parties' candidates
can be placed on ballot for November 1970 election.
See: 314 F. Supp. 984.

Memorandum of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, Circuit Justice.
I consider the issues in this case are such as to entitle
the State of New York to have them put to the Court
itself before the judgment of the three-judge District
Court is implemented. To that end I shall issue an
order preserving the status quo ante upon terms which
will enable the Court to determine, at its first Conference
in October, what disposition should be made of the
State's appeal, and whether the stay, which I am now
granting, should be continued.
Supplemental Memorandum of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,
Circuit Justice.
The day following the announcement of the order of
July 11, 1970, the appellees moved by telegram for reconsideration and vacation of that order. Among other
things, they suggested that the Court might not, under
1201

OCTOBER TERM, 1970

Opinion in Chambers

400 U. S.

the course envisioned by my order, be able to take action
relating to the State's appeal and the limited stay granted
by me in time to enable the appellee parties' candidates
to appear on the ballot for the November 1970 election-in
compliance with the judgment of the three-judge District
Court, if this Court should determine that the operative
effect of that judgment should be left undisturbed.
Considering that this suggestion, if it proved to be
true, might require me to reconsider my order of July 11,
I called on the parties to file memoranda and also set
the matter for a hearing before me at the Federal Courthouse in Bridgeport, Connecticut, on July 20, 1970.
At the hearing it developed that these fears of the
appellees were unfounded, so far as the State was concerned, and I have today received from the New York
State Attorney General's Office the following telegram:
"Re Rockefeller v. Socialist Workers Party, confirming representations made at July :20 hearing, in
event stay not continued by full Court not later
than October 27 appellees will be placed on ballot
provided they have complied with election law as
modified by District Court decree. Appellees will
appear on absentee ballots subject to their votes
being voided if full Court continues stay. Respectfully, Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of New
York, attorney for appellants."
In light of the foregoing, the motion for reconsideration is denied, with leave to renew if the course of events
contemplated by this memorandum turns out to be
impossible of realization. In short, my purpose is to
afford both sides an opportunity to have the District
Court's decision considered by this Court before final
preparation for the Novembef 1970 election.
Motion.to vacate stay denied.

