JANUARY TERM 1835.

CHARLES

DEHAULT DELASSUS,

APPELLANT V. THE UNITED

STATES.
Missouri. A claim was made by C. D. D., by a petition filed in the district
court of the United States, for the district of Missouri, under the act of
congress of 25th May 1824, "enabling the claimants to lands within the
limits of the state of Missouri, and territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity oftheir claims." The tract of land claimed was
a league square, and was granted to the father of the petitioner by Don
Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor of the province of upper Louisiana,
on a petition addressed to him for that object; the decree for that purpose
being dated 1st April 1795. The land was situated on a branch of the river
St Francis, &c. The decree ordered the captain commandant of the post
of St Genevieve to put the grantee in possession of the land, which was done
on the 15th of the same month. It was surveyed on the 14th of December
1799. The petition stated that all the laws for the preservation ofhis rights
had been observed, his father is dead, and the title is vested in him, and
prays that it may be enforced. Regular documents in support of the concession accompanied the petition; and among them a letter from the baron
Carondelet, governor-general of Louisiana, recommending the grant to be
made by the lieutenant governor Trudeau, and stating that the object of
the petitioner was to open lead mines, and that he had contracted with the intendancy to deliver a quantity of lead. After the concession should be made
by the lieutenant governor, the grantee was to present a memorial to the
governor-general to have a decree confirming the same. The district court
of Missouri refused to confirm the grant, and the petitioner appealed to
this court. The grant was confirmed, and the decree of the district court
reversed.
The act of 25th May 1824, gives the district court authority to hear and determine all questions arising in any cause brought before it by the petition of
any person claiming lands within the state of Missouri, 1 by virtue of any
French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant or order of survey, legally
made or issued before the 10th day of March 1804 by the proper authorities,
to any person or persons resident in the province of Louisiana at the date
thereof, and which was protected and secured by the treaty between the
United States and France of the 30th of April 1803, and which might have
been perfected into a complete titie, under and in conformity to the laws and
usages and customs of the government under which the same originated,
had not the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United
States."
The stipulations of the treaty ceding Louisiana to the United States, affording that protection or security to claims under the French or Spanish government to which the act of congress refers, are in the first, second and
third articles. They extended to all property until Louisiana became a
member of the union, into which the inhabitants were to be incorporated as
soon as possible, "and admitted to all the rights, advantages and immuni-

SUPREME COURT.
[Delassus v. The United States.]
ties of citizens of the United States." The perfect inviolability and security
of property is among these rights.
The right of property is protected and secured by the treaty, and no principle
is better settled in this country, than that an inchoate title to lands is property. This right would have been sacred, independent of the treaty. The
sovereign who acquires an inhabited country, acquires fell dominion over
it; but this dominion is never supposed to divest the vested rights of individuals to property. The language of the treaty ceding Louisiana, excludes
any idea of interfering with private property.
The concession to the petitioner was legally made by the proper authorities.
A grant or concession made by that officer, who is by law authorized to make
it, carries with it prima facie evidence that it is within his powers. No excess of them, or departure from them, is to be presumed. He violates his
duty by such excess, and is responsible for it. He who alleges that an officer
entrusted with an important duty has viojated his instructions, must show it.
The cases of the United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters 691, Percheman v. The
United States, 7 Peters 51, The United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters 436,
cited and approved.
The instructions of governor O'Reilly, relative to granting lands in Louisiana,
were considered by the court, in 8 Peters 455. These regulations were intended for the general government of subordinate officers, and not to control and limit the power of the person from whose will they emanated. The
baron De Carondelet must be supposed to have had all the powers which
had been vested in Don O'Reilly, and a concession ordered by him is as
valid as asimilar concession directed bygovernor O'Reilly would have been.
The act of congress on which this case depends, contains no reservation of
lead mines. It extends the jurisdiction of the court to allclaims,, by virtue of any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant or order of survey
legally made by the proper authorities."

ON appeal from the district court of the United States for the
Missouri district.
On the 18th of May 1829, Charles Dehault Delassus, legal
representative of Pedro Dehault Delassus, under the authority
of the act of congress, entitled "an act enabling the claimants
to lands with the limits of the state of Missouri, and the territory of the Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity
of their claims," filed in the office of the clerk of the district
court of the United States for the district of Missouri, the following petition.
"To the honourable the judge of the district court of the
United States for the state of Missouri.
"Respectfully showeth Charles Dehault Delassus, of the
county of St Louis, state of Missouri, that on the 3d day of
March 1795, Don Pedro Dehault Delassus De Luzieres,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

the father of your petitioner, addressed his petition to Don
Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor of the province of Upper
Louisiana, praying that a concession or grant should be made
to him and his heirs of a tract of land containing seven thousand and fifty-six arpenis, French measure, being a league
square. That said lieutenant governor, in compliance with
said petition, and in obedience to an official instruction addressed to him by the governor-general of the province of Louisiana, the baron of Carondelet, did, by decree bearing date
the 1st day of April 1795, aforesaid, grant to said De Luzieres,
and his heirs for ever, a tract of a square league situated on a
branch of the river St Francis, called Gaboury, and by said
decree ordered Francois Vall6, the captain commandant of the
port of St Genevieve, to put the De Luzieres forthwith into
possession of said tract, and also directed that said tract should
be surveyed in due form by the surveyor, then about to be appointed for the province of Upper Louisiana. That on the 1th
day of April, in the year aforesaid, the said De Luzieres was
formally put into possession of said square league by said Francois Vall6, in pursuance of said decree. That some time elapsed
from the said delivery of possession until the appointment of a
surveyorforsaid province ofUpperLouisiana, and by which delay,
and other unavoidable difficulties, the said De Luzieres was prevented from obtaining a survey of the said tract until the 14th
day of December 1799, on which day the surveyor-general of
Upper Louisiana, Don Antoine Soulard, in pursuance of an
order to him specially directed by the lieutenant governor of
said province, surveyed said tract and located the same accordmg to the terms of the above mentioned decree of concession,
and the possession delivered as aforesaid to said De Luzieres,
all which will more fully appear by said original decree of the
lieutenant governor, said official instruction of said governorgeneral, the certificate of delivery of possession by said Francois Val6, the said order of survey by the lieutenant governor,
and, lastly, by the official return and certificate of survey by
the surveyor-general, which certificate bears date the 5th day
of March 1800, and which original documents are here brought
into court, and ready to be produced and proved, and to which
your petitioner begs leave to refer. That said De Luzieres, at
the date of said decree of concession, and until his decease,

SUPREME COURT.
rDelassus v. The United States.]

was a resident of the province of Upper Louisiana. Your petitioner further showeth, that said concession and claim thereunder having been submitted to the board of commissioners
for the adjustment of Spanish and French land claims, was
rejected on the ground that the land intended in the said concession contained a lead mine, and on no other. That said
tract of a league square has been reserved from sale in the
public land office until a decision shall be had thereon by the
proper tribunal, and that said tract, as laid down on the general
plat in the office of the register, is situated and bounded as
follows, viz. beginning in the southeast quarter of section
number twenty-five, township number thirty-five, north, of
range number five, east, at a post, a corner of John Capehart's
survey, and runs thence south eight west, with Capehart's line,
five chains eighty-three links to Capehart's and D. Murphey's
corner, sixty-four chains sixteen links to D. and S. Murphey's
corner, one hundred and seven chains ninety-one links to St
Murphey and Coen's corner, one hundred and thirty-seven
chains and forty-one links to Coen and W Murphey's corner,
two hundred and five chains and thirty-two links to the southwest corner of W Murphey's survey, two hundred and fortyfive chains to a point in the northwest quarter of section number thirteen, in township number thirty-five, north, of range
number five, east, thence north eighty-two west two hundred
and forty-five chains to a point in the southwest quarter of
section number nine, in township number thirty-five, north, of
range number five, east, thence north eight east two hundred
and forty-five chains, to a point In the south-east quarter of
section number twenty-eight, in township number thirty-six,
north, of range number five, east, thence south eighty-two
east one hundred and sixty-three chains ninety-eight links to
the south-west corner of Joseph Murphey's, seventy-two
hundred and thirteen chains and forty-five links to Joseph Murphey's southeast corner, on the west boundary of John Capehart's survey, thence thirty-eight west, with Capehart's survey, one chain and thirty-two links to his southwest corner,
thence south eighty-two east, with Capehart's line, thirty-one
chains and fifty links, to the place of beginning. Your petitioner further showeth, that said league square, and all claim
and title thereto since the decease of said De Luzieres, who

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

departed this life some years since, has been legally vested in
your petitioner, and that no part of said tract is occupied or
claimed by any person or persons adverse to the claim or title
of your petitioner. Wherefore your petitioner prays that the
validity of said concession and claim to confirmation of said
tract may be inquired into, and decided upon by this honourable court, and that inasmuch as said concession and survey
might have been perfected into a complete title under and in
conformity to the laws, usages and customs of the government
under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of
the country been changed or transferred to the United States,
your petitioner prays that his title and claim be confirmed to
said league square, located and bounded as aforesaid. And
your petitioner prays that a citation be directed to the district
attorney of the United States, requiring him to appear and
show cause, if any he can, why the confirmation prayed for by
your petitioner should not be decreed to him. And your petitioner will ever pray, &c.
" CiARLEs DnHAULT DELASSUS."

The answer of the attorney of the United States was filed at
the June session 1829 of the district court, denies the allegations of the petitioner, and requires proof of the same.
At the January session of the court, in 1830, the district
judge made a decree against the claim set forth in the petition,
and this appeal was prosecuted by the petitioner.
The documents annexed to the petition were the following.
"ToDon Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor of thewestern
part of Illinois, &c.
"Pierre Charles Dehault, knight, lord of Delassus Luzieres,
and knight of the great cross of the royal order of St Michael,
residing in New Bourbon, dependency of the post of St Genevieve, has the honour to represent, that when he was at the
city of New Orleans, in May 1793, he resolved to come up in
the Illinois country, on the positive assurance given him by his
lordship, the baron De Carondelet, governor-general of Lousiana, that he would order and authorize you to grant him a
tract of land for the exclusive exploration of lead mines, and of
a sufficient and convenient extent for said exploration, provided
VOL. IX.-Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

it should not be formerly granted to another, which warranty
and assurances of the government are to be found formally
expressed in a letter here subjoined, and directed to your petitioner by the said baron, under the date of May 8th 1793, and
which you have been pleased to assure me was exactly conformable to the official letter you received on that subject from
the governor-general. The long and cruel disease which your
petitioner experienced on his arrival in Illinois in August 1793,
the hostile threats of an invasion on the part of the French
against the country some short time after, the orders you gave
to the inhabitants not to go to any distance from their post, and
the care and trouble which, to your knowledge, I have taken
in that time to countenance the wise and efficacious means you
have taken so successfully in putting the posts of Illinois in a
state of defence, in case of an attack, of which care, endeavour
and zeal on my part, his lordship, Luis de la Casas, captaingeneral of Havana, being informed, I received from him a letter, bearing date May 20th 1794, by which be gives me the
most honourable evidence of his satisfaction, as appears by copy
of said letter here subjoined. That the occurrence of several
circumstances hindered your petitioner to make a search of a
tract of land containing lead mineral, he now, with the assistance of his children and son-in-law, and persons acquainted
with the country, visited a place situated on one of the branches
of the river St Francois, called Gaboury, in the district of St
Genevieve, and about twelve leagues from this post, which has
not been yet granted, makes part of the king's domain, and
,where it is ascertained some mineral had been anciently dug,
besides the external and internal appearance, according to the
mineralogical principles, indicates that the spot contains lead
mineral, therefore your petitioner has resolved to try in that
place a general exploration of lead mine he is so much induced to prosecute such an undertaking that he expects the
arrival of his eldest son, now emigrated to Germany, who is
well learned in mineralogy, having studied it particularly, and
having been engaged in a similar branch in Europe with your
petitioner, and will be very useful in exploring and.conducting
the one now solicited. Your petitioner flatters himself that you
will not refuse to give this concession the extent of a league
square, in order to secure the necessary fuel for the melting of

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

the mineral, and other necessaries, under these considerations
your petitioner humbly prays you, sir, that in conformity to the
intentions of the government manifested in the subjoined letters, of which you have been notified by the governor-general
himself, you have been pleased to grant for himself, his heirs
and assigns in full property, the concession of a league square
of land situated on said brpnch of river St Francois, called
Gaboury, in the district of St Genevieve, with the exclusive
right to explore the lead mines in the same, to cultivate and
raise cattle on the said land if necessary, in so doing your
petitioner will ever pray, &c.
" DELAssus DE LuziEREs.

"New Bourbon, March 3d 1795.
"St Genevieve, Illinois, March 10th 1795.
"We, the commandant of said post, do inform the lieutenant
governor, that the concession demanded in the within pdtitLion, is part of the king's domain, and has not been granted to
any body, and that its extent fixed to a league square, is indispensable and necessary to secure the timber for melting of
mineral and other necessary supply.
"FRANCOIS VALLE.

"To Zenon Trudeau."
"The knight Don Pierre Dehault Delassus, has entered
into contract with this intendancy, to deliver yearly, during
the term of five years, thirty thousand pounds of lead in
balls or bars. In order that he may comply with his contract, your worship will put him in possession of the land he
may solicit, for the exploration, benefit and enjoyment of the
mines, for which purpose he is to present a memorial directed
to me, and which your worship will transmit, that I may give
him the corresponding decree of concession, being understood,
in the mean time, your worship will put him in possession.
God preserve your worship many years.
1"EL BARON DE CARONDELET.
"New Orleans, May 7th 1793.
"To Mr Dehault Delassus.
"I send you back the primitive titles of the concession granted

SUPREME COURT
[Delassus v. The United States ]

Mr Francois Yalle, of St Genevieve, who transferred to Mr
Dodge one moiety of which, this last ceded to Mr Tardiveau, who made a gift of it to your brother, with the approbation and advice you desired. By this opportunitv I write to
Mr Zenon Trudeau to grant you the land where you will have
made a discovery of lead mines, with adjacent lands of sufficient extent for their exploratiorn. provided, nevertheless, that
it should not be conceded to another.
"Your son-in-law and your sons, shall have also, as you desire, a plantation in any place they will select in Illinois, of an
extent proportionate to the establishment and improvement
they propose to make.
" This is my answer to your letter No. 3. God have you in
his holy keeping.
""1EL BARON DE CARONDELET.

"New Orleans, May 8th 1793.
"Sir Don Peter Dehault Delassus de Luzieres.
"The Baron de Carondelet, governor-general of this province, has manifested to me, in his letter of the 27th of February last, the zeal and activity with which your worship
(although labouring under a weak state of health) has manifested in exciting the inhabitants and Indians to join in the
common defence of those settlements, and more particularly
the post under your command. I do hope that your worship
will continue with the same efficaciousness in similar circumstances, and give me an opportunity to reward your worship.
God preserve your worsmp many years.
"Luis DE LA CASAS.
"Havannah, May 20th 1794.
"St Louis, Illinois, April 1st 1795.
"Decree. Having read the present petition, the subjoined of
the baron De Carondelet, directed to the petitioner, under the
date of May 1793, also the official letter to us directed by said
governor-general, authorizing, and giving us order to grant
the petitioner a concession in the spot selected by him, and of
a sufficient extent to explore exclusively the lead mines in the
same, also the above information of the commandant of St
Genevieve, by which he testifies that the land petitioned for is

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

in the King's domain, and that it is indispensable that the
quantity should be a league square, we, the lieutenant governor, in conformity with said orders and intentions of the
government, have granted, and do grant unto the petitioner,
and to his heirs and assigns, in fee, the concession demanded,
situate on a branch of the river St Francois, called the Gaboury, in the place selected by him, the extent of which shall
be a league square, to the end that he may explore exclusively
the lead mines belonging to the same, and, if necessary, to
cultivate and raise cattle, hereby commanding Don Francois
Vall6, captain and commandant of St Genevieve, in whose
district the land is situated, to put the petitioner in possession
thereof, the regular survey of which will be done as soon as a
surveyor will be appointed and commissioned for the upper
Louisiana.
"ZENoN TRUDEAU.

"St Genevieve, Illinois, April 15th 1795.
"We, Don Francois Yall6, captain commandant, civil and
military, of the post of St Genevieve, in compliance with the
foregoing decree of Don Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor
of the western part of Illinois, bearing date the 1st instant, have
this day, the 15th of the same month, put the knight, Peter
Delassus De Luzieres in possession of a league square of land,
situated on a branch of the river St Francois, called Gaboury,
as granted to him by the aforesaid decree, conformably to orders, and with the approbation of his lordship, the governorgeneral of this province. The said concession, in future, to be
regularly surveyed by the king's surveyor, who is soon to be
named and appointed for this upper colony.
"1FRANcoIs VALLE.

Don Charles Dehault Delassus, colonel of the royal
armies, and lieutenant governor of upper Louisiana.
"Humbly petition Peter Charles Dehault Delassus De Luzieres, knight, &c., residing in New Bourbon, and has the honour
to represent, that in conformity to orders of the governor of this
province, your predecessor, Don Zenon Trudeau, did grant to
your petitioner a concession of a league square of land, situate
CTo

SUPREME COURT.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

on a branch of the river St Francois, called Gaboury, with the
exclusive right to explore the lead mines on the same, as appears by his decree bearing date April 1st 1795, of which concession and land your petitioner was put in possession by Don
Francois Val16, captain commandant of the post of St Genevieve, in whose district the land is situated, as appears by his
act bearing date the 15th day of April of said year, and
whereas it is mentioned in said decree of Don Zenon Trudeau,
that said concession will be regularly surveyed by the surveyor
who has to be appointed by the government for upper Louisiana, and whereas Don Antoine Soulard has been commissioned and appointed as such surveyor therefore, under these
considerations, your petitioner requests you, sir, that after
mature consideration of the instruments here submitted, relating to said concession, yqu be pleased to give the necessary
orders to Don Antoine Soillard, surveyor of upper Louisiana,
to proceed without delay tb the regular survey of said concession of a league square, or the said branch of thp river St Francois, called Gaboury. to explore exclusively to any other, the
land, &c., and of which land he has been already put in possession by the commandant of St Genevieve, and has already
begun the exploration, he hopes to obtain his demand, inasmuch as he did not hurry the surveyor, in order to give him
the necessary time to attend to the surveying of concessions
belonging to other inhabitants, who wished to have their surveys quickly executed. In so doing, you will do justice.
"1PIERRE DELASsus DE LUZIERES.

"New Bourbon, November 25th 1799.
"By virtue of the contents of the above memorial and the
accompanying documents, and also from what it appears by the
official letter of the baron De Carondelet, late governor of these
provinces, bearing date the 7th and 8th of May 1793, on file in
these archives.
"The surveyor, Don Antoine Soulard, will survey the league
square of land which was granted to the party interested by the
decree of my predecessor, the lieutenant governor, Don Zenon
Trudeau, dated 1st April 1794, conformably to orders of his
lordship, the governor, and of which land he has been put in
possession, as appears by decree of Francois VaI16, commandant

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

of St Genevieve, bearing date April 15th of the year last mentioned, to be hereafter surveyed by the surveyor of this upper
Louisiana, when appointed and commissioned.
"CHARLES

DEHAULT DELASSUS.

"St Louis, November 29th 1799."

On the 6th of March 1800, Anthony Soulard, principal
deputy surveyor of upper Louisiana, certified that on the 14th
of December 1799, he made a survey and return of the land
claimed by the petitioner, in virtue of the decree of the 29th
of November 1799.
The case was argued by Mr White, for the appellant,
and by the Attorney-General, for the United States.
Mr White, for the appellants,, contended
1. That the grant to Don Pedro Dehault De Luzieres, was
a valid Spamsh concession, made in obedience to the orders of
the superior officers of the crown of Spain, and in conformity
with the laws of Spain.
2. That it is a claim protected by the treaty, and entitled
to confirmation under the treaty and laws of the United
States. (a)
Mr Butler, attorney-general. The object of the argument
on the part of the United States in this case, will be rather to
lay before the court such views of the nature and extent of the
titles set up in the cases -which are before the court, by appeal from the district of Missouri, as are applicable to all these
cases, than to resist the present case, which appears to be
founded on equity, and in which, unless the documents -are
not genuine, or the court shall be compelled by some strict rule
of law, the court will reverse the decree of the district court.
The documents in the case show great merit in the claimant, who, in consideration of this merit, and of a contract to
(a) The argument of MIr White was not received by the Reporter, when
this case was put to press. It will be inserted in the Appendix, should it be
received before the publication of this volume.

SUPREME COURT
[Delassus v. The United States.]

furnish a certain quantity of lead to the governor of Louisiana,
was recommended to the .zpecial favour of the lieutenant governor. This is shown by the letter of the baron De Carondelet.
The court will observe that as to all action in the case by
the governor-general, the title of the claimants stops at these
letters. There is not shown any application to the governorgeneral for a complete grant. The decision of the district
judge was that no complete grant was exhibited, and that the
claim rested on an inchoate and imperfect title.
As to the first point presented by the counsel for the appellant, it is necessary to explain what is intended by the United
States, when it is said this is not a valid concession. It is
denied that the lieutenant governors of upper Louisiana had a
right to grant land in upper Louisiana. Although the coinmandant of St Louis and St Genevieve might not have been
subordinate in other matters, yet he was, in reference to the
grant of lands, subordinate to the governor-general of Louisiana,
and in some respects subordinate to the governor-general of
Havana.
The supreme authority of the governor-general is fully
established by the documents in this and the other cases before
this court, on appeal from the district court of Missouri. The
lieutenant governors could not grant lands without special
authority from the governor-general. An express reference is
made in the grant of Don Zenon Trudeau, to the authority
given to him by the letter of the baron De Carondelet. That
letter states that a memorial is to be presented by Mr Delassus
to the baron De Carondelet, that a corresponding concession
may be given to him. This clearly asserts the power to be in
the governor-general, although it allows possession to be given
of the lands for a concession, and negatives the authority of
the lieutenant governor to make a full grant.
The records in other cases, the examination of which will
follow this now under consideration, will show the general
understanding and practice of the officers of Spain in granting
lands, and fully sustain the positions now assumed.
In 1798, the power to grant lands was transferred from the
governor-general of Louisiana to the intendant. After the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus.v. The United States.]

transfer, the lieutenant governor of upper Louisiana acknowledged this transfer, and the obligation to apply to the intendant for the completion of grants, in the same manner as was
before required to apply to the governor-general. This is fully
established by the records in other cases before the court, and
by repeated recognitions shown in state papers.
As to the second point presented by the counsel for the
appellant, that there was a complete grant made to the
appellant, it is not intended to deny that if such a grant had
been made, it was the duty of the court below and of this court
to confirm the title. All the principles which have been decided in the cases of Spanish grants, which have been before
this court, are not to be questioned. These decisions are sustained as well by the principles of international law, as by the
treaty. It has been finally settled that a claim for lands,
founded on and conformable to the laws of Spain, if of such a
character as that, by the laws of Spain, it would have ripened
into a perfect title, will be confirmed by this court.
What is the real question in the case now under the consideration of the court 't
Certain regulations were made in 1770, by Don O'Reilly,
which were intended to govern the granting of lands in all
Louisiana, and these regulations were confirmed by a royal
order of the king of Spain. White's Land Laws 204, Clarke's
Land Laws 978. This confirmation was given on the 28th of
January 1771
Documents relative to Louisiana and Florida 3.
It will therefore be no longer disputed, that in the whole of
Louisiana, these regulations were in full force and applicable
to the granting of lands until they were altered.
The difficulty in this case grows out of the discrepancy of
the grant, and the regulations of O'Reilly. The point intended
now to be submitted, is, whether the lieutenant governor of
Illinois, could make a larger grant than a league square. The
grant does not conform to these regulations, and as they were
in force, the grant would not have been confirmed under the
laws of the Indies, and was therefore void, as against the
United States.
It is said that the governors-general of Louisiana had been
in the habit of confirming grants which were not in conformity
VOL. IX.-R

SUPREME COURT
[Delassus v. The United States.]

with these regulations. This is admitted. When this case
was decided by the district judge of Missouri, the cases of
Arredondo and of Percheman, had not been decided, and it
was not, until the decisions in these cases, considered that an
equitable title was sufficient to entitle a claimant to a confirmation of his grant. The proceedings below were founded on
the law of congress of 1824, 7 Laws U. S. 300, Clarke's
Land Laws 871. The district judge decided in the language
of the law, and it is contended that although an inchoate
grant is shown in this case, yet as it was in opposition to the
regulations of O'Reilly, he could not do otherwise.
It is admitted that although this grant does not conform to
these regulations, yet grants of this kind have been confirmed
by the Spanish authorities, and if this is a case within the
same principles, this grant must be confirmed. But if the
court hold the regulations of O'Reilly were the only authority
to make such a grant, it will affirm the decree of the district
judge.
The act of congress gave powers to the commissioners to
confirm grants, excepts those having lead mines upon them.
But the claim now before the court, is under the treaty with
France, making a cession of Louisiana, and the court will decide whether the exception in the law can prevail against the
treaty. The principal reliance of the United States to sustain
the decree of the court below, is upon the non conformity of
the grant with the regulations of Don O'Reilly.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree pronounced by the court
of the United States, for the district of Missouri, by which
the claim and title of the petitioner, Charles Dehault Delassus, to a tract of land in his petition mentioned, under a
concession alleged to be authorized by the laws of Spain, and
protected by the treaties ceding Louisiana to the United States,
was declared to be invalid.
The suit was instituted under the act of the 25th of May
1824, "enabling the claimants to lands within the limits of the
state of Missouri, and territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of their claims."

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

The petition, which is the institution of the suit, states that
on the 3d of March 1795, Don Pedro Dehault Delassus De
Luzieres, the father of the petitioner, addressed his petition to
Don Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant-governor of the province of
upper Louisiana, praying that a concession or grant should be
made to him and his heirs, of a tract of land containing seven
thousand and fifty-six arpents, French measure, being a league
square. That said lieutenant governor in compliance with
said petition, and in obedience to an official instruction addressed to him by the governor-general of the province of Louisiana,
the baron Carondelet, did, by decree bearing date the 1st of
April in the year 1795, grant to said De Luzieres and his heirs
for ever, a tract of a square league situated on a branch of the
river St Francis called Gaboury, and by said decree ordered
Francois Yall6, the captain commandant of the port of St Genevieve, to put De Luzieres forthwith in possession of the said
tract of land, which was done on the 15th of the same month.
A delay in the appointment of a surveyor for the province, prevented the survey from being immediately made. It was made
on the 14th of December 1799. The petitioner proceeds to
state that the requisites of the laws for the preservation of his
right had been observed, that his father is dead, and the title
is vested in the petitioner. He prays that his title and claim
be confirmed.
The answerof the district attorney professes ignorance of the
facts, and insists that the petitioner be required to prove the
validity of his claim.
The petition of Pierre Charles Debault Delassus De Luzieres
presented to Don Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor of the
western part of Illinois, &c., states that in May 1793, he resolved to come to Illinois on the assurance of his lordship, the
baron De Carondelet, governor-general of Louisana, that he
would order and authorize him, the said Don Zenon Trudeau,
the lieutenant governor, &c., to grant him, the petitioner, a
tract of land for the exclusive exploration of lead mines, &c.,
which assurance is fully expressed in a letter annexed to the
petition, which, he adds, conforms to a letter addressed to the
lieutenant governo on the same subject. The petition then
ascribes the delay in its presentation to long and severe illness,
and to the difficulty of finding a tract of land adapted to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

object. This being at length accomplished, and having found
a spot indicating that it contains lead mineral on one of the
branches of the river St Frangois called Gaboury; the petitioner
prays a concession thereof to the extent of a league square.
The letter of the baron De Carondelet is in these words
"To Zenon Trudeau.
The knight Don Pierre Dehault Delassus has entered into
contract with this intendancy to deliver yearly during the term
of five years, thirty thousand pounds of lead, in balls or bars.
In order that he may comply with his contract, your worship
will put hun in possession of the land he may solicit, for the exploration, benefit and enjoyment of the mines, for which purpose he is to present a memorial directed to me, and which your
worship will transmit, that I may give him the corresponding
decree of concession, being understood in the mean time your
worship will put him in possession. God preserve your worship
many years.
"EL BARON DPi CARONDELET.
"New Orleans, May 7th 1793."
Other letters from the baron De Carondelet, sustaining that
above recited, were annexed to this petition, and on the 1st of
April 1795, Zenon Trudeau, the lieutenant governor of the
province, granted the required concession.
The regular documents to prove the survey, and the possession of the premises by Delassus, were also laid before the
district court.
The act of the 26th of May 1824, gives the district court authority to hear and determine all questions arising in any cause
brought before it by the petition of any person claiming lands
within the state of Missouri, "by virtue of any French, or
Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or order of survey legally
made, granted, or issued, before the 10th day of March 1804,
by the proper authorities, to any person or persons resident in
the province of Louisiana at the date thereof, or on or before
the tenth day of March 1804, and which was protected or secured by the treaty between the United States of America and
the French Republic, of the 30th day of April 1803, and which
might have been perfected into a complete title, under, and in

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

conformity to the laws, usages, and customs of the government
under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of
the country been transferred to the United States."
In the first article of the treaty referred to, the consul of the
French Republic ceded to the United States, in full sovereignty,
the province of Louisiana, with all its rights and appurtenances.
The second article declares that in this cession "are included
the adjacent islands belonging to Louisiana, all public lots and
squares, vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications,
barracks and other edifices, which are not private property."
The third article stipulates, "that the inhabitants of the ceded
territory shall be incorporated in the union of the United States,
and admitted as soon as possible, according to the principles of
the federal constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights,
advantages and immunities of citizens of the United States,
and in the meantime they shall be maintained and protected
in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion which they profess."
These are the stipulations which afford that protection or
security to claims to land under the French or Spanish government, to which the act of congress refers. They extend to all
property until Louisiana shall become a member of the union,
into which the inhabitants are to be incorporated as soon as
possible, "and admitted to all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United States." That the perfect
mviolability and security of property is among these rights, all
will assert and maintain.
The right of property then is protected and secured by the
treaty, and no principle is better settled in this country, than
that an inchoate title to lands is property.
Independent of treaty stipulation, this right would be held
sacred. The sovereign who acquires an inhabited territory.
acquires full dominion over it, but this dominion is never supposed to divest the vested rights of individuals to property,
The language of the treaty ceding Louisiana excludes every
idea of interfering with private property, of transferring lands.
which had been severed from the royal domain. The people
change their sovereign. Their right to property remains unaffected by this change.
The inquiry then is, whether this concession ,"was legally

SUPREME COURT.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

made by the proper authorities ;" 1 and might have been perfected into a complete title, under and in conformity to the laws,
usages and customs of the government under which the same
originated, had -not the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United States."
The concession was made in regular form on the 1st of
April 1795, by Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor of the
western part of Illinois, in which the land lay, by special order
of the baron De Carondelet, governor-general of the province,
given in consequence of a contract entered into by De Luzieres
with the government for the supply of lead.
By the royal order of 1774, the power of granting lands,
which had been vested in the intendants by an order of 1768,
was revested in the civil and military governors of provinces,
who retained it till 1798. White's Compilation 218. In
the execution of this power, the lieutenant governors or commandants of posts, as is fully shown by the proceedings before
the various tribunals appointed under the authority of the Urnted States, were employed to make the original concession and
order of survey, and to put the grantee into possession. In
1795 then, when these acts were performed by the lieutenant
governor, under the authority and by the special order of the
governor-general, those officers were "the proper authorities ;"
and had full power to make the concession, and to perfect it
by a complete title. Who can doubt that it would have been
so perfected, "in conformity to the laws, usages and customs
of the Spanish government, had not the sovereignty of the
country been transferred to the United States "
A grant or a concession made by that officer, who is by law
authorized to make it, carnes with it prima facie evidence that
it is within his power. No excess of them, or departure from
them, is to be presumed. He violates his duty by such excess,
and is responsible for it. He who alleges that an officer entrusted with an important duty has violated his instructions,
must show it.
This subject was fully discussed in the United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters 691, Percheman v. The United States, 7
Peters 51, and the United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters 436. It
is unnecessary to repeat the arguments contained in the opinions given by the court in those cases.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

The concession is unconditional, the land was regularly surveyed, and the party put into possession.
The objection made to this plain title is, that the concession
is not made in pursuance of the regulations of O'Reilly.
This objection was considered in the cases heretofore decided
by this court, and especially in 8 Peters 455. It is apparent
that those regulations were intended for the general government of subordinate officers, not to control and limit the power
of the person from whose will they emanated. The baron De
Carondelet, we must suppose, possessed all the powers which
had been vested in Don O'Reilly, and a concession ordered by
him is as valid as a similar concession directed by governor
O'Reilly would have been. Had governor O'Reilly made
such a grant, could it have been alleged that he had disabled
himself by his instructions for the regulation of the conduct of
his subordinate officers, instructions which the power that
created must have been capable of varying or annulling, from
exercising the power vested in him by the crown Q
The lead mine has been mentioned. But the act of congress, on which this case depends, contains no reservation of
lead mines. It extends the jurisdiction of the court to all
claims, "by virtue of any French or Spanish grant, concession,
warrant or order of survey," legally made by the proper authorities, &c. This is such a concession.
The court is of opinion that the claim of the appellant is
valid, and ought to be confirmed. The decree of the district
court is reversed and annulled, and this court, proceeding to
pronounce such decree as the district court ought to have
given, doth declare the claim of the petitioners to be valid,
and doth confirm their title to the tract of land in their petition mentioned, according to the boundaries thereof, as described in the survey- made by Antonio Soulard, principal deputy surveyor of upper Louisiana, on the 14th day of December
1799, and his certificate of the said survey, dated the 5th of
March 1800, and appearing in the record of the proceedings of
this cause.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States, for the district

136

SUPREME COURT.
[Delassus v. The United States.]

of Missouri, and was argued by counsel, on consideration
whereof, this court is of opinion that the claim of the appellant
is valid, and ought to be confirmed. Whereupon, it is ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled, and this court, proceeding to pronounce
such decree as the said district court ought to have given, doth
declare the claim of the petitioner to be valid, and doth confirm his title to the tract of land in his petition mentioned, according to the boundaries thereof, as described in the survey
made by Antonio Soulard, principal deputy surveyor of upper
Louisiana, on the 14th day of December 1799, and his certificate of the said survey, dated the 5th of March 1800, and appearing in the record of the proceedings of the cause.

