SUPREME COURT

LESSEE OF SAMUEL SMITH, PLAINrIFF IN ERROR V. ROBERT
TRABUE'S HEIRS, n3 JAMES TRABUE, THEIR NEXT FRIEND.

Jurisdiction. The judicial act authorizes the supreme court to issue writs of
error to bring up any final judgment or decree in a civil action or suit in
equity, depending in the circuit court, &c. But, a judgment awarding a
writ of restitution in an action of ejectment, where, in the execution of a
writ ofhabere facias possessionem, the sheriff had improperly turned a person out of possession, is not a final judgment in a civil action, itis no more

than the action of a court on its own process, which is submitted to its own
discretion. This court takes no jurisdiction in such a case.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky.

In the circuit court, the defendants in error filed a petition
in May 1830, setting forth that on the demise of Richard
Smith, an action of ejectment was instituted in the circuit
court against Richard Fenn, with notice to Hiram Bryant and
William Bryant and others, that the Bryants were tenants to
the petitioners and to Robert Trabue, who appeared to the
ejectment, had his tenants entered as defendants; and a judgment was rendered at May term 1828 against them. No writ
of habere facias possessionem was issued on this judgment,
and at November term 1818, a judgment was rendered against
other tenants, and on that judgment a writ of habere facias
possessionem was issued, and the marshal of the district of
Kentucky, under this last judgment and writ, turned out of
possession John Evans, who was a tenant of the petitioners,
resident on the same place occupied by the Bryants when the
suit was first brought and judgment rendered, and then possessed by the petitioners. The record showed that this writ of
habere facias possessionem issued on the 17th November 1829.
At May term of the court in 1839, a motion was made in
behalf of of the petitioners, and a rule awarded on Smith the
plaintiff in error and defendant in the petition, to show cause
why a writ of restitution should not be awarded to them, to
restore the possession of the tenements held by their tenants,
John Evans and others, taken from them by the marshal, on

JANUARY TERM 1835.
(Smith v. Trabue s Heirs.]

the writ of possession mentioned in their petition. The marshal's return showed that he had turned John Evans, James
M'Guire, and William Acres, who were the tenants of the
petitioners, out of possession.
At May term 1831, the court ordered a writ of restitution to
be awarded to the petitioners, the plaintiffs in the motion, to
restore them to the possession of the land from which their
tenants had been removed by the marshal. To the opinion
of the circuit court in overruling object ions made by the defendant's counsel to the objects of the motion, and awarding possession to the plaintiffs, the defendant, now plaintiff in error, excepted, and prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was submitted to the court by Mr Allan on a
printed argument for the plaintiffs in error. No counsel appeared for the defendants in error.
Upon the point decided by the court, viz. that the award of
a writ of possession was not a final judgment from which a
writ of error would lie to this court, it was said
We are aware that this court only grants relief where the
decree or judgment is final, and that mere orders to correct
process do not come within the description of final judgments,
because such orders, from their very nature, are within the control of the court, as an order to quash an execution, or to issue
one, to correct taxations of costs all these, though final in
iheir language, are not so in their nature, but even a judgment correcting an execution may be final, as if the court were
to decide that the execution should be returned by the sheriff
without being levied, and adjudge the judgment satisfied.
This would be final, or no remedy would be left but by writ of
error against such judgment, erroneously entered. But the
order of the court quashing a writ because of excessive taxation,
or because there were valuers appointed, or refusing the writ for
any cause in its nature temporary, as the pendency of error, is
not final. But if the court refuse a fieri facias because in the
opinion of the judge the judgment does not authorise one, or because, in his opinion, he is restrained by final decree, then the
judgment is final. Such have been the distinctions observed
and practised upon in both Virginia and Kentucky Indeed in

SUPREME COURT
[Smith v. Trabue's Heirs.]

both states, where the judgment is for realty, on which the
final process may issue or the possession be changed, the judgment or decree is held to be final.
Test this case by these rules, and see whether the judgment is final or interlocutory. It is a final judgment both for
the possession and the costs, one, on which execution may not
only issue, but on which,execution is ordered, and on which a
fieri facias for costs is also ordered. This judgment though on
motion is more final than if it were an ordinary case of ejectment, it lasts as long as the record lasts, whereas the other
may expire with the lease, and need we call to the mind of
this court the monstrous evils that must grow out of the practice of permitting ancient judgments and rights to be overturned by these ex parte motions, founded on parol proofs.
If this court possess no power to correct, the present case is
one of the strongest instances of abuse. Twelve years and
more before this motion was made, Samuel Smith had recovered judgments for his land under this judgment, by the laws
of Kentucky, he had a right to make his personal entry, to sell
out or to tenant it, yet, without process served on him, without
process served on the tenant, and without process served on his
agent or alienee, strangers to the record, on a tale of their own,
from the mouth of one of the defendants in the record, obtain
a judgment and execution for the possession, which being knit
to a former possession, may not only change the right of entry,
but destroy the remedy by writ of right.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of restitution awarded
by the court of the United States for the seventh circuit and
district of Kentucky, whereby the tenant of the defendants m
error was restored to the possession of a tract of land from which
he had been improperly removed, under the process of that
court.
The defendants in error filed their petition in the circuit
court, stating that a declaration of ejectment had been brought
by John Doe, on the demise of Samuel Smith, and notice served
on Hiram and William Bryant, the tenants of the petitioners;

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Smith v. Trabue's Heirs.]

and a judgment was rendered against them in May teim 1818,
on which no writ of habere facias possessionem has been issued.
In November term 1818, a judgment was rendered against
other tenants, by virtue of which the marshal turned John
Evans out of possession, who, as tenant of the petitioners, resided on the place which had been occupied by the Bryants.
A rule to show cause was granted, and on its return restitution was awarded. To this judgment of restitution, this writ
of error is awarded.
The judicial act authorizes this court to issue writs of error
to bring up any final judgment or decree in a civil action or
suit in equity, depending in the circuit court, &c.
This is not a final judgment in a civil action, nor a decree in
a court of equity It is no more than the action of a court on
its own process, which is submitted to its own discretion. This
court takes no jurisdiction in such a case. It is not, we think,
given by the judicial act.
The writ of error is quashed and the suit dismissed, the court
having no jurisdiction.

In error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel, on consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that this is not a final
judgment in a civil action, nor a decree in a court of equity,
but no more than the action of a court on its own process,
which is submitted to its own discretion, and that the court
cannot take jurisdiction in such a case, it not being given by
the judicial act, and that the writ of error must be quashed
and the suit dismissed, the court having no jurisdiction.
Whereupon, it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this writ of error be, and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

