INDEX
OF

PRINCIPAL MATTERS

AFFIDAVITS.
1. Affidavits sworn to before a state magistrate, are lawfully taken m cases
in which, by the regulations of the treasury department, they were
received as evidence of claims on the United States. United States
v. Dailey. 238.
2. If in making such an affidavit, the affiant swears falsely, he is liable to
be pumshed in a prosecution instituted by the United States, under
the third section of the act of congress of March 1, :1823, relative to
false swearing, touching the expenditure of public money, or in support of any claim on the United States. Ibid.
AGENT AND ATTORNEY.
1. Every authority given to an agent or attorney to transact business for
bjs principal must, in the absence of any counter proof, be construed
to be to transact it according to the laws of the place where it is to be
done. A sale of slaves authorized to be made in Louisiana by an
executrix, must be presumed to be intended to be done in the manner
required by the laws of that state to give it validity; and the purchaser, equally with the seller, is bound under these circumstances
to know what the laws are, and to be governed thereby. The law
will never presume that parties intend to violate its precepts. Owzngs v. Hull. 607.
2. A ratification of the unauthorized acts of an attorney in fact, without
a full knowledge of all the facts connected with those acts, is not
binding on the principals. No doctrine is better settled on principle
and authority, than this, that the ratification of the act of an agent
previously unauthorized, must, in order to bind the principal, be with
a full knowledge of all the material facts. If the material facts be

INDEX.
AGENT AND ATTORNEY.
either suppressed or unknown, the ratification is invalid, because
founded on mistake or fraud. Ibid.
ANNUITIES.
1. The ingenuity of lenders has devised many contrivances by which,
under forms sanctioned by law, the statute of usury may be evaded.
Among the earliest and nost common of these,is the purchase of annuities secured upon real estate or otherwise. The statute does not reach
these, not only because the principal may be put in hazard, but because it was not the intention of the legislature to interfere with individuals in their ordinary transactions of buying and selling, or other
arrangements made with a view to convenience or profit. The purchase of an annuity or rent charge, if a bonfide sale, has never been
considered as usurious, though more than six per cent profit be
secured. Yet it is apparent, that if giving this form to the contract
will afford a cover which conceals it from judicial investigation, the
statute would become a dead letter. Courts, therefore, perceived
the necessity of disregarding the form, and examining into the real
nature of the transaction. If that be in fact a loan, no shift or device
will protect it. Though this principle may be extracted from all the
cases, yet as each depends on its own circumstances, and those circumstances are almost infinitely varied , it ought not to surprise if
there should be some seeming conflict in the application of the rule
by different judges. Different minds allow a different degree of
weight to the same circumstances. Scott v. Lloyd. 418.
2. The covenants in a deed from S., granting the annuity to M., secure
the payment of ten per cent for ever on the sum advanced. There
is no hazard whatever in the contract. Al. must, in something more
than twenty years, receive the money he has advanced, with the legal
interest on it, unless the principal sum should be returned after five
years, in which event he would receive the principal with ten per
cent interest. The deed is equivalent to a bond for 5000 pounds,
amply secured by a mortgage on real estate, with interest at ten per
cent thereon, with liberty to repay the same in five years. If the
real contract was for a loan of money without any view to a purchase,
it is plainly within the statute. Ibid.
APPEAL.
1. A decree of a circuit court perpetuating an injunction, in a case on
which some matters of account were left open for further consideration, is not a final decree; and an appeal will not lie on such a case.
Brown v. Swans. 1.
2. An appeal does not lie from the decree of the district court of the
United States for the district of Louisiana, dissolving an injunction.
Hirnrtv. Ballon. 156.
3. No persons but those appearing to be parties to the record,canbe permitted to be heard on an appeal or writ of error. Harrzson v. ixon,
483.
4. After a case had been fully heard in the superior court of middle
Florida, the judge of that court, in examining the evidence in the
case with a view to its decision, considered that lie had discovered in

INDEX.

799

APPEAL.
the date of the water mark in the paper on which one of the original
Spanish documents had been written, a circumstance which brought
into doubt the genuineness of the instrument. No objection of this
kind had been made during the argument of the cause, and after
the supposed discovery, no opportunity was permitted, by the couxt
of Florida, to the claimants, to explain or account for the same.
After the appeal had been docketed in this court, the appellants asked
permission to send a commission to procure testimony, which it was
alleged would fully explain the circumstance, and offered to read
ey parte depositions to the same purpose. By the Court. This is
refused, because in an appellate court, no new evidence can be taken
or received, without violating the best established rules of evidence.
Under such circumstances, it would be dealing to the petitioner a
measure of justice incompatible with every principle of equity, to
visit upon his title an objection which the claimant was not bound
to anticipate in the court below, which he could not meet there, and
which this court were compelled to refuse him the means of removing
by evidence. We will not say what course would have been taken,
if his title had depended on the date of the paper alluded to: as the
case is, it is only one of numerous undisputed documents tending
to establish the grant, the validity of which is but little, if it could be
in any degree affected by the date of the permission. .Mitchel e
al. v. Thie United States. 711.
ASSETS.
During the pendency of a suit to rescind a contract for the purchase of
a tract of land, on an allegation that there had been a fraudulent
misrepresentation by the vendor, it was agreed that the rents and
profits of the land should be received by an agent, to abide the event
of the suit. The supreme court affirmed the decree of the circuit
court, rescinding the contract, and ordering the part of the purchase
money paid by the purchaser, repaid to him. The vendor of the
land died, and the rents and profits which had been received by the
agent, were adjudged to be assets in the hands of his executor,
who had been the receiver. Boyce's Executors v. Grundy. 275.
ASSUMPSIT.
1. The ancient doctrine that a corporation can act in matters of contract
under its seal only, has been departed from by modern decisions;
md it is now considered, that the agents of a corporation may, in
many cases, bind it, and subject it to an action of assumpsit. Chesapeakeand Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others. 541.
2. When a special contract remains open, the plaintiff's remedy is on
the contract; and he must set it forth specially in his declaration.
But if the contraethas been put an end to, the action for money had
and received lies to recover any payment that has been made under
it I bid.
. It is a well settled principle, that where a special contract has been
performed, a plaintiff may recover on the general counts. Ibid.
8AIL.
1. The recognizance of special bail being a part of the proceedings on a

800

-

INDEX.

I
I
suit, and subject to the regulation of the court, the nature, extent
and limitations of the responsibility created thereby, are to be decided, not by a mere examination of the terms of the instrnment,
but by a reference to the known rules of the court, and the principles of law applicable thereto. Whatever, in the sense of these rules
and principles, will constitute a discharge of the liability of the special bail, must be deemed included within the purview of the instrument, as much as if it were expressly stated. Beers et al. v. Haugiton. 329.
2. By the rules of the circuit court of Ohio, adopted as early as January
1808, the liability of special bail was provided for and limited, and
it was declared, that special bail may surrender their principal at any
time before or after judgment against the principal, provided such
surrender shall be before a return of a scire facias executed, or a
second scire facias returned ," nihil" against the bail. And this, in
fact, constituted a part 'of the law of Ohio, at the time the present
recognizance was given, the same having been so enacted by the
legislature. This act of the legislature of Ohio was in force at the
time of the passage of the act of congress of the 19th of May 128M,
regulating the process of the courts of the United States, in the hew
states, and must therefore be deemed as a part of the 11modes of
proceeding in suits," and to have been adopted by it, so that the
surrender of the principal within the time thus prescribed, is not a
mere matter of favour of the court, but is strictly a matter of legal
right. Ibid.
3.. It is not strictly true that on the return of " non est inventus" to a
capias ad satisfaciendum against the principal, the bail is "1fixed," in
courts acting professedly under the common law and independently
of statute. So much are the proceedings against bail deemed a
matter subject to the regulation and practice of the court, that the
court will not hesitate to relieve them in a summary manner, and direct an exoneretur to be entered in cases by the indulgence of the
court, by giving them time to render the principal until the appearance day of the last scire facias against them, as in cases of strict
right. Ibid.
4. When bail is entitled to be discharged, ex debito justitim, they may not
only apply for an exoneretur by way ofsummary proceeding, but they
may plead the matter as a bar to ssuit, in their defence. But when
the discharge is matter of indulgence only, the application is to the
discretion of the court; and an exoneretur cannot be insisted on, except by way of motion. Ibid.
5. When the party is, by the practice of the court, entitled to an exoneretur without a positive surrender of the principal, according to the
terms ofthe recognizance , he is, a fortiori, entitled to insist on it by
way of defence, when he is entitled, cx debito justitie, to surrender
the principal. Ibid.
6. The doctrine is fully established, that where the principal would be
clearly entitled to an immediate and unconditional discharge, if he
had been surrendered, there the bail are entitled to relief by entering
an exoneretur without any surrender. And, a fortiori, this doctrine
will apply, when the law prohibits the party from being imprisoned

BAIL.

INDEX.
BAIL.
at all, or when, by the positive operation of law, a surrender is prevented. Ibid.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
1. The office of the Bank of the United States at Lexington, Kentucky,
in February 1822, held a large amount of notes of the Bank of Kentucky, which had been received in the usual course of business, at
the full value expressed on the face of them, as equivalent to gold
and silver, and were so considered by the bank. On the amount of
these notes so held, the Bank of Kentucky had agreed to pay interest, at the rate of six per centum, until the same should be redeemed.
All the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, held by the Bank of the
United States, were finally paid with the interest. In February
1822, when the notes of the Bank of Kentucky were at a depreciation
of between thirty-three and forty per cent, Owens applied to the
office of the Bank of the United States, for a loan of 5000 dollars of
the said notes, saying they would answer his purpose as well as gold
or silver. After repeated refusals and re-applications, with the consent of the board of directors of the Bank of the United States at
Philadelphia, the sum of 5000 dollars, in the notes of the Bank of
Kentucky, was loaned to him on a promissory note, signed by him,
and b; Waggener, Miller and Wagley, payable in three years with
interest, at the rate of six per cent per annum. The money so loaned
was paid to the borrower in the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, and
in a check on that bank, and the interest on that amount of the
notes, being so much of the sum due by the Bank of Kentucky to the
Bank of the United States, ceased from the date of the loan. In an
action on the note given by Owens and others, the defence set up
was, that the transaction was usurious, contrary to the charter of the
Bank of the United States, and void. Held, that there was no usury
in the transaction. Bank of the United States v. agener. 378.
2. The statute of usury of Kentucky of 1798, declares that all bonds,
notes, &c., taken for the loan of money, where "is reserved or
taken" a greater rate of interest than six per cent, shall be void. In
this case no interest at all was taken, the interest being payable at
the termination of the three years mentioned in the note, and if the
case can be brought within the statute, it must be notlas atakzng, but
a resernation of more than legal interest. Ibid.
3, The ninth articleof the fundamental articles of the charter of the Bank
of the United States, declares, among other things, '1 that the bank
shall not be at liberty to purchase any public debt whatsoever, nor
shall it take more than at the rate of six per centum per-annum, for
or on its loans or discounts." It is clear that the present transaction
does not fall within the prohibition of dealing or trading, in the preceding part of the same article, according to the interpretation
thereof given by this court in the case of Fleckner v. The Bank of
the United States, 8 Wheaton 338, 351,5 Cond. Rep. 457, to which
the court deliberately adhere. Ibid.
4. The words of the article are, that the bank shall not take (not, shallnot
"reserve" or "take") more than at the rate of six per cent. Injhe
construction of statutes of usury, this distinction between the reserVOL. IX.-5 A

INDEX.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
vation, and the taking of usurious interest, has been deemed very
material for the reservation of usurious interest makes the contract
utterly void, but if usurious interest be not stipulated for, but only
taken afterwards, then the contract is not void, and the party is only
liable for the excess. Ibid.
5. In the case of the Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Peters 527,
538, it was said that in the charter the word "1reserving" must be
implied in the word "1taking." This expression of opinion was not
called for by the certified question which arose out of the plea; for it
was expressly averred in the plea, that in pursuance of the corrupt
and unlawful agreement therein stated, the bank advanced and
loaned the whole consideration of the note, after discounting a large
sum for discount, in the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, at their
nominal value. Ibid.
6. The case of the Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Peters 527,
turned upon considerations essentially different from those presented
in the present record. The question certified in that case, arose
upon a demurrer to a plea of usury; and the demurrer, in terms, admitted that the agreement was unlawfully, usuriously and corruptly
entered into. So that no question as to the intention of the parties
or the nature of the transaction was put. The transaction was usurious and the agreement corrupt, and the question there was,
whether, if so, it was contrary to the prohibitions of the charter, and
the contract void. In the present case, the questions are very different. Whether the agreement was corrupt or usurious; or bona
fide, and without any intent to commit usury, or to violate the charter; are the very points which the jury were called upon, and under
the instructions were asked, to decide. The decision in 2 Peters
527, cannot therefore be admitted to govern this, for the quo amimo
of the act, as well as the act itself, constitute the gist of the controversy. Ibid.
7. In construing the usury laws, the uniform construction in England has
been, and it is equally applicable here, that to constitute usury
within the prohibitions of the law, there must be an intention knowingly to contract for and to take usurious interest, for if neither
party intend it, and act bona fide and innocently, the law will not
infer a corrupt agreement. This principle would seem to apply to
the charter of the bank. There must he an intent to take illegal
interest; or, in the language of the law, a corrupt agreement to take
it, in violation of the charter. The quo ammo is, therefore, an essential ingredient in all cases of this sort. Ibid.
S. There has been no taking of usury and no reservation of usury on the
face of this transaction. The case, then, resolves itself into this inquiry, whether, upon the evidence, there was any such corrupt
agreement, or device, or shift to reserve or take usury" and none
of these appear in the case. I bid.
9. Because an article is depreciated in the market, it does not follow
that the owner is not entitled to demand a higher price for it, before
he consents to part with it. He may possess bank notes which to
him are of par value, in payment of his own debts, or in payment of
public taxes; and yet their marketable value may be far less. If he

INDEX.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
uses no disguise, if he seeks not to cover a loan of money, under the
pretence of a sale or exchange of them, but the transaction is bona
fide what it purports to be, the law will not set aside the contract,
for it is no violation of any public policy against usury. Ibid.
BILLS OF EXCEPTIONS.
1. A bill of exceptions to evidence cannot be taken in the district court
of the United States in Louisiana, wheoi the case was not tried by a
jury. Field et al. v. The United States. 182.
2. In the course of the trial of the cause in the circuit court, the counsel
for the plaintiff objected to a question put by the defendant's counsel
to a witness, as being a leading question. By the Court. Although
the plaintiff's counsel objected to this question, and said that he
excepted to the opinion of the court, no exception is actually prayed
by the party and signed by the judge. This court cannot consider
the exceptioi as actually taken, and must suppose it was abandoned.
Scott v. Lloyd. 418.
BILL OF PARTICULARS.
1. A bill of particulars should be so specific as to inform the defendant,
substantially, on what the plaintiff's action is founded. This is the
object of the bill, und if it fall short of this, its tendency must be to
mislead the defendant rather than to enlighten him. Chesapeake and
Okw Canal Company v. Knapp et al. 541.
2. As the bill of particulars is filed before the trial, it is always in the
power of the defendant to object to its want of precision, and the
court will require it to be amended before the commencement of the
trial, and if this be not the only mode of taking advantage of any
defect in the bill, it is certainly the most convenient for the parties.
Ibid.
CASES CERTIFIED TO THE SUPREME COURT ON A DIVISION
OF OPINION BETWEEN THE JUDGES OF A CIRCUIT
COURT.
The langpago of the sixth section of the act to amend the judicial system of the United States, which provides for the removal of cases
from the circuit court to the supreme court, when the judges of the
circuit court are opposed in opinion, shows conclusively that congress intended to provide for a division of opinion on single points,
which frequently occur in the trial of a cause, not to enable a circuit court to transfer an entire cause into the supreme court, before
a final judgment. A construction which would authorize such transfer, would counteract the policy which forbids writs of error or appeals, until the judgment or decree be final. It has been repeatedly
decided that the whole cause cannot be adjourned on a division of the
judges; and this is a case of that description. United States v. Battey. 267.
CASES CITED.
1. Lenox v. Roberts, 2 Wheat. 373, 4 Cond. Rep. 163. Demand of
payment of a promissory note. Bank of.4lexqndra v. wann. 33.

INDEX.
CASES CITED.
2. Mills v. The Bank of the United States, 11 Wheat. 431, 0 Cond.
Rep. 073. Notice of dishonour of a promissory note. Ibid.
3. Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213, 4 Cond. Rep. 426. An ancient deed
accompanied with possession admitted as evidence without proof of
its execution. Coulson v. Walton. 62.
4. The United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters 691. Florida land claims.
Delassus v. The United States. 117.
5. The United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters 51. Florida land claims.
Ibid.
6. The United States v. Clark, 8 Peters 436. Florida land claims. Ibid.
7. The United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters 73a. Tie City of Vew Orleans
v. Do .drmas et al. 224.
8. The cases of Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 200, 4 Cond. Rep.
409; Mason v. Haile, 12 Wheat. 370, 6 Cond. Rep. 535, Wayman
v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 6 Cond. Rep. 1, United States Bank v.
Halstead, 10 Wheat. 51, 6 Cond. Rep. 22. Beers et al v. Haughton. 329.
9. Fleckner v. Bank of the United States, 8 Wheat. 338, 351, 5 Cond.
Rep. 457. Charter of the Bank of the United States. Bank of the
United States v. Waggener 378.
10. Patterson v. Winn, 5 Peters 233. Evidence. Grantsofland. Winns
v. Patterson. 663.
11. Patterson v. Jenckes, 2 Peters 216. Grants. Ibid,
CHANCERY, AND CHANCERY PRACTICE.
1. G. K. the father of the wife of the complainant, T., a few days after
the marriage of his daughter, proposed to his son-in-law, that he
should repair a house and lot in Georgetown, D. C., saying he intended it for his daughter. At this time G. K. was in good circumstances. T. laid out a considerable sum in the repairs, afterwards
occupied the property-removed from it and received the rents, and
afterwards left Georgetown to reside elsewhere, the rents of the property being collected and paid to him by G. K. Some time after
the repairs of the property were finished, a correspondence took place
as to the terms on which G. K. was to convey the property to T. and
wife, in which G. K. acknowledged the right of T. to have the
amount paid for the repairs, secured or repaid to him, and stated that
he would convey part of the property to T. and part to his daughter,
so that the property should be possessed and enjoyed by them both.
No specific agreement was made on the subject, and G. K. afterwards died insolvent. 1. and wife filed a bill against the heirs of G.
K., and the trustee of the creditors of G. K., claiming a conveyance
of the property, and for general relief. By the Court. In no point
of view could such a contract as that in this case be considered
voluntary. There was not only a good consideration, that of natural
affection, but a valuable one. To constitute a valuable consideration, it is not necessary that money should be paid, but if, as in
this case, it be expended on the faith of the contract, it constitutes a
valuable consideration. King's hcrs v. Thompson and Wife. 204.
2. In testing the validity of the transaction of 1812, the subsequent fall
of property in Georgetown, or the failure of K. cannot be taken

INDEX.

805

CHANCERY, AND CHANCERY PRACTICE.
into view. The inquiry must be limited to his circumstances, at
that time. It is not shown that the persons for whom he was
bound, as indorser, were then unable to pay the respective sums for
which he was responsible and it would be improper to consider
those sums as debts due by K. He was responsible for their payment on certain contingencies , but the fact that his credit remained
unimpaired for several years after the contract, shows that neither
his credit, nor the credit of those for whom he was indorser, was considered doubtful. In this state of facts, K. was in a condition to
dispose of the house dind lot, not worth more than 2500 dollars, on
the terms stated. Ibid.
3. The terms of the contract not being sufficiently established by the
evidence, the court decreed that the property should be sold, and
the proceeds 6f the sale should be first applied to the payment of the
money expended by T. in making improvements on the property,
and the balance, if any, paid over for the benefit of the creditors of
G. K. T. not to be charged with rent of the premises while he
occupied them, or with the rent collected and paid to him after he
removed. Ibid.
4. Statutes of lim itations are applied bycourts of equity, in all cases where
at law they might be pleaded. Coulson v. Walton. 62.
5. A bill was filed in the circuit court of Ohio, for a conveyance of the
legal title to certain real estate in the city of Cincinnati, and the
statute of limitations of Ohio was relied on by the defendants. The
complainant claimed the benefit of an exception in the statute, of
non residence and absence from the state: and evidence was given,
tending to show that the person under whom he made his claim in
equity was within the exception. The non residence and absence
were not charged in the bill, and of course were not denied or put
in issue in the answer. Held, that the court can take no notice of
the proofs; for the proofs, to be admissible, must be founded upon
some allegations in the bill and answer. If the merits of the case
were not otherwise clear, the court might remand the cause for the
purpose of amending the pleadings. Pilattv. Vattier et al. 405.
6. A bill was filed in the circuit court of the United States for the eastern
district of Pennsylvania, to recover the estate of the testator, bequeathed to "1his heir at law." The court considered, on an examination of the bill and proceedings, that there was not a sufficient
averment of the testator's actual domicil at the time of making the
will, at the time of his death, or at any intermediate period, and remanded the case to the -circuit court to have sufficient averments
inserted. Harrnsom v. .Wxon. 483.
7. Every bill must contain in itself sufficient matter of fact, per so, to
maintain the case of the plaintiff. The proofs must be according to
the allegations of the parties, and if the proofs go to matters not
within the allegations, the court cannot judicially act upon them
as a ground for decision, for the pleadings do not put them in contestation. Ibid.
8. Upon motions made to the court, and from proceedings in the circuit
court, laid before the court; it appeared that there are certain claimants of the bequest, asserting themselves to be "heirs at law,"

INDEX.
CHANCERY, AND CHANCERY PRACTICE.
whose claims were not adjudicated upon in that court, on account of
their having been presented at too late a period. By the Court. As
the cause is to go back again for further proceedings, and must be
opened there for new allegations and proofs, the claimants will have
a full opportunity of presenting and proving their claims, and they
ought to be let into the cause for that purpose. Ibid.
9. The district court of the United States in Louisiana, has jurisdiction
in all cases which are cognizable in courts of equity, as contradistinguished from courts of common law, and the modes of proceeing
in that court must be according to thp usages, principles and rules
which belong to courts of equity. Livingston v. Story. 632.
10. If there are no equitable claims or rights cognizable in the courts of
the state of Louisiana, nor any courts of equity, and no state laws
regulating the practice in equity causes, the law of 1824 does not
apply to a case of chancery jurisdiction, and the district court of
Louisiana is bound to adopt the antecedent modes of proceeding,
authorized under the former acts of congress. Ibid.
11. If any part of a bill in chancery is good, and entitles the complainant
to relief or discoverya demurrer to the whole bill cannot be sustained.
Ibid.
12. It is an established, and universal rule of pleading in chancery, that a
defendant may meet a complainant's bill by several modes of defence.
He may demur, answer and plead to different parts of the bill, so
that if a bill for a discovery contain proper matter for the one, and not
for the other, the defendant should answer the proper, and demur to
the improper matter; and if he demurs to the whole bill, the demurrer must be overruled. Ibid.
13. Congress has the power to establish circuit and district courts in any,
and all the states of the union, and to confer on them equitable jurisdiction in cases coming within the constitution. It falls within the
express words of the constitution. Ibid.
CONSTITUTIONAL CASES.
The court refused to take up cases involving constitutional questions
when the court was not full. layor of J.cw York v. Mln. 85.
Briscoe et al. v. 7hc Commonwealth's Bank of Kentucky. 85.
CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTES OF STATES OF THE UNITED
STATES.
1. Construction of the statutes of limitations of North Carolina of 1815
and 1819. Coulson v. Walton. 62.
2. Construction of the act of the legislature of Kentucky, authorizing
aliens to hold lands. Beard v. Rowan. 301.
3. Construction of the statute of Maryland of 1796, ch. 67, sec. 13, relative to the manumission of slaves. Fenwick v. Chapman. 461.
CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTES OF THE UNITED STATES.
1. The relief which is given by the act of congress, passed 15th of May
1820, entitled an act providing for the better organizing the treasury
department; on which a warrant of distress may be issued by application to any district judge of the United States for an injunction to

INDEX.
CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTES OF THE UNITED STATES.
stay proceedings on such warrant, is not confi6ed to an officer employed in the civil, military or naval departments of the government
to disburse the public money appropriated for the service of those
departments respectively, who shall fail to render his accounts, or
pay over in the manner required by law, any sum of money remaining in the hands of such officer. United States v. .Ttourse. 8.
2. Opinions ofMr Chief Justice Marshall and of Judge Barbour, delivered
in the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of
Virginia, in the case of the United States v. Randolph, upon the
construction of the act of congress of 15th May 1820, authorizing the
issuing of a warrant of distress in certain cases. 12.
3. Construction of the act of congress of 25th May 1824, "1enabling the
claimants to land within the limits of the state of Missouri and territory of Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of
their claims. Delassus v. The United States. 117.
4. Construction of the 3d section of the act of congress of March 1st
1823, relating to false swearing touching expenditures of public
money. United States v. Bailey. 238.
CONTINUANCE OF CAUSES.
Mitchel v. The United States.

711.

CONTRACT.
Where the parties in their contract fix on a certain mode by which the
amount to be paid shall be ascertained, the party that seeks an enforcement of the agreement must show that he has done every thing
on his part, which could be done, to carry it into effect. He cannot
compel the payment of the amount claimed, unless he shall procure
the kind of evidence required by the contract; or show that, by time
or accident, he is unable to do so. The United States v. Robeson.
319.
CRIMES.
Perjury.
DAMAGES.
The allowance of damages in cases of affirmance of judgments or decrees
of the circuit court, when brought up by writ of error or appeal, is
solely for the decision of the supreme court. Boyce's Executors v.
Grundy. 275.
DOMICIL.
1. Chancery and chancery practice.
2. Wills and probate of wills.
ERROR.
Where there is no evidence tending to prove a particular fact, the court
are bound so to instruct the jury when requested, but they cannot
legally give any instruction which shall take from the jury, the
right of weighing what effect the evidence shall have. An mstrac-

808

INDEX.

ERROR.
tion to the jury, founded on part of the qvidence only, is error.
Greenleafv. Birth. 292.
EVIDENCE.
1. The bill of exceptions stated, that during the trial of the cause in
the district court, the counsel for the marshal stated, that he had
made a seizure or given notice that he seized in the hands of the defendants, the syndics, any funds in their hands, to a sufficient amount
to satisfy the judgment obtained in the case of the United States v.
John Brown, Sen. and Lewis E. Brown. This testimony was objected to as being contrary to the statement of facts in the case, in
which it was stated, that a return of nulla bona had been made by the
marshal, and because the act was done in a case to which the defendants were not parties, and because the best evidence was the
notice or true and proved copies of it. The return of the marshal in
the case of the United States v. John Brown, Sen. and Lewis E.
Brown was also offered, and was objected to. By the Court. The
evidence was properly admitted as notice to the syndics of the debts
due to the United States. Field et al. v. The United States. 182.
2. Contract.
3. S. obtained a sum of money of M., securing him by an annuity equal
to ten per cent per annum for ten years. He afterwards resisted the
payment of the annuity, on the ground that the contract was usurious, and having sold the estate to L. on which the annuity was
secured, he in writing promised to indemnify and save him harmless
for prosecuting a writ of replevin, should a distress be made for the
annuity. On the trial of the action of replevin, S. was not a competent witness to show the original contract between him and M. was
usurious. Scott v, Lloyd. 418.
4. The attorney in fact residing in New Orleans, of certain executrixes
residing in Baltimore, of the will of a person who left certain slaves
in New Orleans, sold the slaves without conforming to the provisions
of the laws of Louisiana, and received a part of the proceeds of
the sale, but having failed, did not pay over the same to his constituents. The heirs of the testatrix instituted a suit for the recovery
of the slaves, in a court of Louisiana, and by a decree of the
court, they were adjudged to them. The purchaser instituted a
suit in the circuit court of the district of Maryland, against the executrixes, to recover the amount paid for the slaves and his expenses,
and offered the record of the proceedings in the suit in Louisiana in
evidence, which was objected to by the defendants. By the Court.
The suit and the proceedings were res inter alios acta, and were no
further evidence than to show a recovery by a paramount title. Owzngs v. Hull. 607.
5. By the laws of Louisiana, copies from the notarial register of deeds
and bills of sale, certified under the notarial seal of the notary, are
evidence, the original register always remaining in the office of the
notary. By the Court. The circuit court was bound to take notice
of the laws of Louisiana, and the copy being evidence by these laws,
was legal evidence in a suit instituted before the circuit court in
another state. Iid.

INDEX.

809

EVIDENCE.
6. A copy of the letters testamentary granted by the parish court of New
Orleans, was proved by the oath of the clerk and register of the court
of probates to be a true copy of the original, and that he could not
send the original, which is on file in the court of probates. By t[e
Court. This is the best evidence which the nature of the case admits of. Ibid.
7. The letters and accounts of J. K. West, the attorney in fact of the
executrixes, transmitted by him to Mr Winchester, their attorney in
fact, were legal evidence in the circuit court. Ibid.
8. What evidence is sufficient to introduce secondary proof of the contents of lost deeds, powers of attorney, &c.
Virn v.-Patterson. 663.
9. The deputy clerk of the Richmond county court, who, as such, had recorded the original power of attorney, swore that he was well acquainted with Abram Jones, esquire, and his hand writing, during
the year 1793, &c. Thatihe record of the power of attorney from
B. Jones to T Smith, made by himself while clerk of the court, is a
copy of an original power of attorney, which he believes to have been
genuine, for that the official signature of Abram Jones must have
induced him to commit the same to record, and that the copy of
that said power of attorney, the one offered in evidence, had been
compared with the record of the original made by himself, and is a
true copy. Upon this evidence, the plaintiff offered the copy in
evidence, and it was admitted by the circuit court. Held, that there
was no error in admitting this evidence. Ibid.
10. At the time of the admission of this evidence, it was forty years old.
Abram Jones, the subscribing witness to the original, was long since
dead, and it did not appear that the other witness was alive. The
original power did not exist, so that no evidence of the hand writing of
the other witness could be given. After the lapse of thirty years from
the execution of a deed, the witnesses are presumed to be dead, and
this is the common ground for dispensing with the production of
them, without any search for them, or proof of their death, when the
original deed is before the court for proof. This rule applies not
only to grants of land, but to all other deeds where the instrument
comes from the custody of the proper party claiming under it, or entitled to its custody. Ibid.
11. The rule is admitted that a copy of a copy is not evidence. This
rule properly applies to cases where the copy is taken from a
copy, the original being still in existence, and capable of being compared with it, for then it is a second remove from the original, or
when it is a copy of a copy of a record, the record being in existence,
and deemed by law as high evidence as the original, for then it is
also a second remove from the original. But, it is a quite different
question whether it applies to cases of secondary evidence where
the original is lost, and the record of it is not deemed in law as high
as the original, or when the copy of a copy is the highest proof in
existence. (In this case, the power of attorney was recorded in
Richmond county, and the land in controversy was in Franklin
county.) Held, that this is not the case of a mere copy of a copy
verified as such, but it is the case of a second copy verified as a true
copy of the original. Ibid.
VOL. ix.-5 B

INDEX.
EVIDENCE.
12. If a certified copy of a duly recorded deed is evidence, it is not necessary to produce the original book in which the same was recorded.
Ilbid.
13. The confessions of an agent are not evidence to bind his principal,
nor is his subsequent account of a transaction to his principal, evidence. But his acts, within the scope of his powers, are obligatory
upon his principal, and those acts may be proved in the same manner as if done by the principal. The agent acting within his authority, is substituted for the principal in every respect; and his statements, which form a part of the res geste, may be proved. United
States v. TWe Brig Burdett. 682.
14. The plaintiffs instituted a suit in the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Maryland, stating themselves to be citizens of the
state of Maryland, and that the defendant was an alien, and a subject
of the king of Spain. The defendant pleaded in abatement, that
one of the plaintiffs, Domingo D'Arbel, was not a citizen of Maryland, nor of any of the United States, but was an alien, and a sub3ect of the king of Spain. Upon the trial of the issue joined on this
plea, the plaintiffs produced and-gave in evidence under the decision
of the circuit court, a passport granted by the secretary of state of
the United States, stating D'Arbel to be a citizen of the United
States. Held, that the passport was not legal evidence to establish
the fact of the citizenship of the person in whose favour it was given.
Urtetiguz v. D'Arbel et al. 692.
15. The defendant in the circuit court offered in evidence the record,
duly certified, of the district court of the United States for the district of Louisiana,.containing the proceedings in a suit which had
been originally instituted against D'Arbel, in a state court of Louisiana, and on his affidavit that he was an alien, and a subject of the
king of Spain, had been removed for trial to the district court, under
the authority of the act of congress authorizing such a removal of a
suit against an alien into a court of the United States. The record
was introduced, as containing a copy of the affidavit of D'Arbel in
the state court, upon which the case was removed. Held, that this
was legal evidence. Ibid.
EXECUTION.
An execution is the end of the
fruits of his judgment, and
execution. It may act on
against whom it is directed.

law. It gives the successful party the
the distress warrant is a most effective
the body and estate of the individual
United States v. .lourse. 8.

EXECUTORY DEVISE.
Kentucky. The clauses in the will of John Campbell, under which the
land in controversy was claimeo, were as follows "and if within
that time, my said half brother, Allen Campbell, shall become a citizen of the United States, or be otherwise qualified by law to take
and hold real estate within the same, I then direct that my said trustees, or the survivor or survivors of them, shall convey to my said
half brother Allen Campbell, his heirs or assigns, in fee simple, all
the land herein before described in this devise. But if my said half

INDEX.

811

EXECUTORY DEVISE.
brother shall not, within the time aforesaid, become a citizen as
aforesaid, I then direct that my said trustees, or the survivor or survivors of them, shall sell and dispose of the said land, hereby directed
to be conveyed to him, on two years credit, with. interest from the
date to be paid annually, and the money and interest arising from
such sale to be transmitted to my said half brother, to whom I give
and bequeath the same. But should my said half brother become a
citizen of the United States, or be otherwise qualified to hold real
estate within the same, before his death, it is thei my will and desire
that he shall have the sole and absolute disposal of all the estate
herein before devised or bequeathed to him; notwithstanding he
may not have obtained deeds therefor from my said trustees."
The testator died in October 1799. Allen Campbell, a native of
Ireland, came to the state of Kentucky in December 1799; and
continued to reside therein until September 1804, when he died.
On the 18th of December 1800, the legislature of Kentucky passed a
law, under which Allen Campbell was authorised to hold the land
devised to'him. By the Court. The devise to Allen Campbell was
a good executory devise, depending on the contingency of his becoming a citizen of the United States, or being otherwise qualified to
hold real estate. This contingency was not too remote. It must
necessarily, not only from the nature of the contingency, but by express limitation in the devise, happen in the lifetime of the devisee,
if ever, and upon the happening of this contingency, there can be
no doubt but the devisee took an estate in fee. Beard v.Rowan. 301.
FINAL DECREES AND FINAL JUDGMENTS.
1.A decree perpetuating an injunction, leaving some matters of account
open for further consideration, is not a final decree. Browrn v.
Swanm. 1.
2. A judgment awarding a writ of restitution in an action of ejectment,
where, in the execution of a writ of habere facias possessionem, the
sheriff had improperly turned a person out of possession, is not a final
judgment in a civil action it is no more than the action of a court
on its own process, which is submitted to its own discretion. Smith
v. Trablue's Hers. 4.
FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
1. The decree of the supreme court of East Florida, confiring a concession of land to the appellee, granted to him by governor Coppinger,
in December 1817, confirmed. United States v. Clarke. 168.
2. A concession on condition, becomes absolute when the condition is
performed. Ibid.
3. The original concession by governor Coppinger, on the petition of
George J. F. Clarke, was made on the 17th of December 1817, of
twenty-six thousand acres of land, in the places he solicited in his
petition, and a complete title was made of twenty-two thousand acres,
part of the same, in December 1817. Twenty thousand acres, part
of the whole concession, were sold by the appellee. The other four
thousand were surveyed in conformity with the decree of 17th of December 1817, and a complete title to the same was made by governor

812

INDEX.

FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
Coppinger, on the 4th of May 1818. By the Court. The claimant
cannot avail himself of the grant of the 4th of May 1818, made after
the 24th of January 1818, the time limited by the Florida treaty. He
must rest his claim on the concession made on the 17th of December
1817. Ibid.
4. The validity of concessions of land, by the authorities of Spain in East
Florida, is expressly recognized in the Florida treaty, and in the
several acts of congress. Ibid.
5. The eighth article allows the owners of land the same time for fulfilling the conditions of their grants from the date of the treaty, as is
allowed in the grant from the date of the instrument. And the act
of the 8th of May 1822 requires every person claiming title to lands,
under any patent, grant, concession, or order of survey dated previous to the 24th of January 1818, to file his claim before the commissioners, appointed in pursuance of that act. All the subsequent
acts on the subject observe the same language, and the titles under
these concpssions have been uniformly confirmed, when the tract did
not exceed d league square. Ibid.
6. A claim to lands in East Florida, the title to which was derived from
grants by the Creek and Seminole Indians, ratified by the local
authorities of Spain before the cession of Florida by Spain to the
United States: confirmed. Mitchel ft al. v. The United States. 711.
7. It was objected to the title claimed in this case, which had been presented to the superior court of middle Florida, under the provisions of the acts of congress for the settlement of land claims in Florida, that the grantees did not acquire, under the Indian grants, alegal
title to the land. Held, that the acts of congress submit these claims
to the adjudication of this court as a court of equity; and those acts,
as often and uniformly construed in its repeated decisions, confer
the same jurisdiction over imperfect, inchoate and inceptive titles,
as legal and perfect ones, and require the court to decide by the same
rules on all claims submitted to it, whether legal or equitable. Ibid.
8. By the law of nations, the inhabitants, citizens, or subjects of a conquered or coded country, territory, or province, retain all the rights
of property which have not been taken from them by the orders of
the conqueror ; and this is the rule by which we must test its efficacy
according to the act of congress, which we must consider as of binding authority. Ibid.
9. A treaty of cession is a deed or grant by one sovereign to another,
which transferred nothing to which he had no right of property ;
and only such right as he owned, and could convey to the grantee.
By the treaty with Spain, the United States acquired no lands in
Florida to which any person had lawfully obtained such a right, by
a perfect or inchoate title, that this court could consider it as property
under the second article, or which had, according to the stipulations
of the eighth article of the treaty, been granted by the lawful authorities of the king - which words grants or concessions were to be construed an their broadest sense, so as to comprehend all lawful acts
which operated to transfer a right of property, perfect or imperfect.
Ibid.
10. The effect of the clauses of the confirmation of grants made was, that

INDEX.

813

FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
they confirmed them presently on the ratification of the treaty, to those
in possession of the lands; which was declared to be, that legal seisin
and possession which follows title, is co-extensive with the right, and
continues till it is ousted by an actual adverse possession, as contradistinguished from residence and occupation. Ibid.
11. The United States, by accepting the cession under the terms of the
eighth article, and the ratification by the king, with an exception of
the three annulled grants to Allegon, Punon Rostro, and Vargas,
can make no other exceptions of grants made by the lawful authorities of the king. Ibid.
12. The meaning of the words lawful authoritiesin the eighth article,
or competent authoritiesin the ratification, must be taken to be, "by
those persons who exercised the granting power by the authority
of the crown." The eighth article expressly recognizes the existence of these lawful authorities in the ceded territories, designating
the governor or intendant, as the case might be, as invested with
such authority which is to be deemed competent till the contrary
is made to appear. Ibid.
13. By "the laws of Spain" is to be understood the will of the king expressed in his orders, or by his authority, evidenced by the acts
themselves, or by such usage and customs in the province as may
be presumed to have emanated from the king, or to have been sanctioned by him, as existing authorized local laws. Ibid.
14. In addition to the established principles heretofore laid down by this
court as the legal effect of an usage or custom, there is one which
is peculiarly appropriate to this case. The act of congress giving
jurisdiction to this court to adjudicate on these causes, contains this
clause in reference to grants, &c., ",which was protected and secured
by the treaty, and which might have been perfected into a complete
title, under and in conformity to the laws, usages and customs of the
government under which the same originated." This is an express
recognition of any known and established usage or custom in the
Spanish provinces, in relation to the grants of land, and the title
thereto, which brings them within a well established rule of law
that a custom or usage saved and preserved by a statute has the
force of an express statute, and shall control all affirmative statutes
in opposition, though it must yield to the authority of negative ones,
which forbid an act authorized by a custom or usage thus saved and
protected, and this is the rule by which its efficacy must be tested,
according to the act of congress, which must be considered of binding authority. Ibid.
15. In the case of The United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters 691, the
lands granted had been in the possession and occupation of the Allachua Indians, and the centre of the tract was an Indian town of that
name. But the land had been abandoned, and before any grant was
made by the intendant, a report was made by the attorney and surveyor general on a reference to them, finding the fact of abandonment, on which it was decreed that the lands had reverted to and
become annexed to the royal domain. Ibid.
16. By the common law, the king has no right of entry on lands which
is not common to his subjects; the king is put to his inquest of office,

INDEX.
FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
or information of intrusion, in all cases where a subject is put to
his action, their right is the same, though the king has more convenient remedies in enforcing his. If the king has no original right
of possession to lands, he cannot acquire it without office, joined so
as to annex it to hisdomain. Ibid.
17. The United States have acted on the same principle in the various
laws which congress have passed in relation to private claims to
lands in the Floridas ; they have not undertaken to decide for themselves, on the validity of such claims; without the previous action
of some tribunal, special or judicial. They have not authorized an
entry to be made on the possession of any person in possession, by
colour of a Spanish grant or title, nor the sale of any lands as part
of the national domain, with any intention to impair private rights.
The laws which give jurisdiction to the district courts of the territories to decide in the first instance, and to this on appeal, prescribe
the mode by which lands which have been possessed or claimed to have
been granted pursuant to the laws of Spain, shall become a part of
the national domain, which, as declared in the seventh section
of the act of 1824, is a "1final decision against any claimant pursuant
to any of the provislon of the law." ]bid.
13. One uniform rule seems to have prevailed in the British provinces in
America by which Indian lands were held and sold, from their first
settlement, as appears by their laws-that friendly Indians were protected in the possession of the lands they occupied, and were considered as owning them by a perpetual right of possession in the tribe
or nation inhabiting them. as their common property, from generation to generation, not as the right of the individuals located on particular spots. Subject to this right of possession, the ultimate fee
was in the crown and its grantees; which could be granted by the
crown or colonial legislatures while the lands remained in possession of the Indians; though possession could not be taken without
their consent. Ibid.
19. Individuals could not purchase Indian lands without permission or
license from the crown, colonial governors, or according to 1he rules
prescribed by colonial laws; but such purchases were valid with such
license, or in conformity with the local laws; and by this union of
the perpetual right of occupancy with the ultimate fee, which passed
from the crown by the license, the title of the purchaser became
complete. Ibid.
20. Indian possession or occupation was considered with reference to
their habits and modes of life; their hunting grounds were as much
in their actual possession as the cleared fields of the whites; and
their rights to its exclusive enjoyment in their own way and for their
own purposes were as much respected, until they abandoned them,
made a cession to the government, or an authorized sale to individuals. In either case their rights became extinct, the lands could be
granted disincumbered of the right of occupancy, or enjoyed in full
dominion by the purchases from the Indians. Such was the tenure
of Indian lands by the laws of Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode
Island, New Hampshire, New York, New. Jersey, Pennsylvania,

INDEX.
FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
Maryland, Virgima, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia.
Ibid.
21. Grants made by the Indians at public councils, since the treaty at
Fort Stanwick's, have been made directly to the purchasers orto the
state in which the land lies, in trust for them, or with directions to
convey to them, of which there are many instances of large tracts
so sold and held, especially in New York. Ibid.
22. It was an universal rule, that purchases made at Indian treaties, in
the presence, and with the approbation of the officer under whose
direction they were held by the authority of the crown, gave a valid
title to the lands it prevailed under the laws of the states after the
revolution, and yet continues in those where the right to the ultimate
fee is owned by the states or their grantees. It has been adopted by
the United States, and purchases made at treaties held by their authority have been always held good by the ratification of the treaty,
without any patent to the purchasers from the United States. This
rule in the colonies was founded on a settled rule of the law of England, that by his prerogative the king was the universal occupant of
all vacant lands in his dominions, and had the right to grant them
at his pleasure, or by his authorized officers. Ibid.
23. When the United States acquired and took possession of the Floridas, the treaties which had been made with the Indian tribes before the acquisition of the territory by Spain and Great Britain,
remained in force ove? all the ceded territory as the laws which
regulated the relations with all the Indians who were parties to
them, and were binding on the United States, by the obligation
they had assumed by the Louisiana treaty, as a supreme law of
the land, which was inviolable by the power of congress. They
were also binding as the fundamental law of Indian rights, acknowledged by royal orders, and municipal regulations of the province,
as the laws and ordinances of Spain in the ceded provinces, which
were declared to continue in force by the proclamation of the governor in taking possession of the provinces; and by the acts of congress, which assured all the inhabitants of protection in their property. It would be an unwarranted construction of these treaties,
laws, ordinances and municipal regulations, to decide that the Indians were not to be maintained in the enjoyment of all the rights
which they could have enjoyed under either, had the provinces
remained under the dominion of Spain. It would be rather a perversion of their spirit, meaning and terms, contrary to the injunction of the law under which the court acts, which makes the stipulations of any treaty, the laws and ordinances of Spain, and these
acts of congress, so far as either apply to this case, the standard
rules for its decision. Ibid.
24. The treaties with Spain and England before the acquisition of Florida by the United States, which guarantied to the Seminole Indians
their lands according to the right of property with which they possessed them, were adopted by the United States; who thus became
the protectors of all the rights they had previously enjoyed, or could
of right enjoy under Great Britain or Spain, as individuals or na-

816

INDEX.

FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
tions, by any treaty, to which the United States thus became parties
in 1803. Ibid.
25. The Indian right to the lands as property was not merely of possesssion, that of alienation was concomitant; both were equally secured,
protected and guarantied by Great Britain and Spain, subject only
to ratification and confirmation by the license, charter or deed from
the governor representing the king. Such purchases enabled the
Indians to pay their debts, compensate for their depredations on the
traders resident among them to provide for their wants; while they
were available to the purchasers as payment of the considerations
which at their expense had been received by the Indians. It would
have been a violation of the faith of the government to both, to encourage traders to settle in the province, to put themselves ano property in the power of the Indians, to suffer the latter to contract
debts, and when willing to pay them by the only means in their
power, a cession of their lands, withhold an assent to the purchase,
which by their laws or municipal regulations was necessary to vest
a title. Such a course was never adopted by Great Britain in any
of her colonies, nor by Spain in Louisiana or Florida. Ibid.
26. The laws made it necessary, when the Indians sold their lands, to
have the deeds presented to the governor for confirmation. The
sales by the Indians transferred the kind of right which they possessed, the ratification of the sale by the governor must be regarded
as a relinquishment of the title of the crown to the purchaser, and
no instance is known where permission to sell has been "refused,
or the rejection of an Indian sale." Ibid.
27. In the present case the Indian sale has been confirmed with more
than usual solemnity and publicity; it has been done at a public council and convention of the Indians conformably to treaties,
to which the king was a party, and which the United States adopted, and the grant was known to both parties to the treaty of cession. The United States were not deceived by the purchase, which
they knew was subject to the claim of the petitioner, or those from
whom he purchased and they made no stipulation which should put
it to a severer test than any other ;and it was made to a house which,
in consideration of its great and continued services to the king and
his predecessor, had deservedly given them high claims as well on
his justice as his faith. But if there could be a doubt that the evidence in the record did not establish the fact of a royal license or
assent to this purchase as a matter of specific and judicial belief, it
would be presumed as a matter of law arising from the facts and
circumstances of the case, which are admitted or unquestioned. Ibid.
28. As heretofore decided by this court, the law presumes the existence
in the provinces of an officer authorized to make valid grants; a
fortiori, to give license to purchase and to confirm; and the treaty
designates the governor of West Florida as the proper officer to
make grants of Indian lands by confirmation as plainly as it does
the gozernor of East Florida to make original grants, or the intendant of West Florida to grant royal lands. A direct grant from the
crown of lands in a royal haven may be presumed on an uninter-

INDEX.

817

FLORIDA LAND CLAIMS, AND FLORIDA TREATY.
rupted possession of sixty years, or a prescriptive possession of
crown lands for forty years. Ibid.
29. The length of time which brings a given case within the legal presumption of a grant, charter or license, to validate a right long
enjoyed, is not definite, depending on its peculiar circumstances.
Ibid.
FORFEITURE.
1. Maryland. An information was filed in the district court of the United
States on the 1st of October 1832, against the Brig Burdett, alleging
her to have been forfeited to the United States for a violation of the
registry acts, she being owned in whole or in part by a foreigner, a
subject of the king of Spain. The vessel was purchased by an agent
of George S. Steever, a native citizen of the United States, and was
sent to the Havana. From the time of her arrival at Havana, she
was placed under the direction of J. J. Carrera, a merchant of that
place, and all her voyages directed by him, professing to act as the
agent of Mr Steever. Part of the cost of the brig was paid in cash
by Mr Steever to his agent on his return to the United States, and
the balance charged by the agent and settled for in account with Mr
Carrera. The counsel for the United States offered in evidence
certain letters written by Mr Carrera to captain Nabb, the commander of the Burdett during her several voyages, which had been directed by him, and which letters related to the business and employment of the Burdett. The letters were objected to as evidence, and
were admitted in the district and circuit court, to which latter court
the case was taken on an appeal by the claimant of the vessel. Held,
that the letters were not legal evidence. United States v. The Brig
Burdett. 682.
2. The object of this prosecution was to enforce a forfeiture of the vessel
and all that pertains to her, for a violation of a revenue law. The
prosecution was a highly penal one, and the penalty should not be
inflicted unless the infractions of the law shall be established beyond
reasonable doubt. Ibid.
3. That frauds are often practised under the revenue laws cannot be
doubted, and that individuals who practise these frauds are exceedingly ingenious in resorting to various subterfuges to avoid detection
is equally notorious. But such acts cannot alter the established rules
of evidence, which have been adopted as well with reference to the
protection of the innocent, as the punishment of the guilty. Ibid.
4. If a fair construction of the acts and declarations of an individual do
not convict him of an offence, if the facts may be admitted as proved
and the accused be innocent, should he be held guilty of an act
which subjects him to the forfeiture of his property, on a mere presumption? He maybe guilty, but he maybe innocent. If the scale
of evidence does not preponderate against him, if it hang upon a
balance, the penalty cannot be enforced. No individual should be
punished for a violation of law, which inflicts a forfeiture of property,
unless the offence shall be established beyond reasonable doubt.
This is a rule which governs a jury in all criminal prosecutions; and

VOL. ix.-5 c

INDEX.
FORFEITURE.
"the rule is no less proper for the government of the court, when exercising a'maritime jurisdiction. Ibid.
FRAUD, AND STATUTE OF FRAUDS.
1. G. the executor of his father, who had devised his estate to G. and his
other children, sold the estate and became himself the purchaser of
it; and in order to secure the portions of the other devisees, who
were minors, confessed a judgment, June 1, 1819, on a promissory
note, in favour of two persons, without their knowledge, in a sum
supposed to be sufficient to be a full security for the amount of the
portions of the minors. The judgment was kept infull operation by
executions regularly issued upon it, so as, under the laws of South
Carolina, to bind the property of G. He was then engaged in mercantile pursuits, and had other property than that so purchased by
him. G. afterwards became insolvent, and the claims of the devisees
of his father, under the judgment, were contested by hi' creditors as
fraudulent; the plaintiffs, in the judgment, having no knowledge of
it when it was confessed, the amount of the sum due to the co-devisees not having been ascertained when it was confessed, no declaration of trust having been executed by the plaintiffs, and false representations of his situation having been made by G. after the judgment,
whereby his creditors were induced to give him time on ajudgment
confessed to them subsequently. The judgment of June 1, 1819 was
held to be valid, and the plaintiffs in that judgment entitled to the
proceeds of the sales of the estate of G., for the satisfaction of the
amount actually due to the co-devisees by G. Bank of Georgwo v.
Higgzlottom. 48.
2. A bill was filed in the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Kentucky, claiming certain lands in Kentucky, under an agreement by parol, by Carrington with Williams, for an exchange of
lands, and in which exchange C., the husband and devisor of the
claimant, agreed to give certain lands then owned by him in Virginia
to W., and of which W took possession, and part of which he sold,
and for which W was to convey certain military lands in Kentucky
to C. The bill prayed that the heir of W should be decreed to convey the lands" and that certain persons who, knowing of the agreement between C. and W., had purchased from the heir of W., and
who had obtained from the heir of W the legal title to a part of the
same lands, should be decreed to convey the same to the complainant. The court held, that although the statute of frauds avoids parol
contracts for lands, yet the complete execution of the contract in
this case by Carrington, by conveying to Williams the land he agreed
to give to Williams in exchange, prevents the operation of the statute
in this case. This was undoubtedly supposed in Virgima to be the
sound construction of the statute, when this contract was made, and
as the lands then lay in Virginia, Kentucky being then a part of that
state, this construction forms the law of contract. Caldwell v. Carrznoton. 86.
3. King's Heirs v. Thompson and Wife. 204.

INDEX.

819

GRANTS OF LANDS.
1. No grant of land can affect pre-existing titles. City of N/ew Orleans
v. Do .rmas etal. 224.
2. There are cases when grants and securities made contrary to the prohibitions of a statute, in part, are, upon the true construction of the
intent of the statute, void in toto. But it is very different in cases
standing merely on the common law. And, therefore, at the common law, in order to make -a grant void, in toto, for fraud or covin,
the fraud or covin must infect the'whole transaction, or be so mixed
up in it as not to be capable of a distinct and separate consideration.
Minn v. Patterson. 664.
3. A grant may be good for part of the land granted, and bad as to other
parts of the same. Ibid.
HABEAS CORPUS.
1. As the jurisdiction of the supreme court is appellate, it must be shown
to the court, that the court has the power to award a habeas corpus
before one will be granted. Ez parts lfilburn. 704.
2. George Milburn was imprisoned in the jail of the county of Washing.
ton, upon a bench warrant issued by the circuit court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, to answer an indictment pending
against him for keeping a faro bank, an offence which, by an act of
congress, is punishable by imprisonment at hard labour in the pemtentiary of the district. He had been arrested on a former capias
issued on the same indictment, upon which he gave a recognizance
of bail, with sureties, in the sum of 100 pounds, Maryland currency,
according to the statute of Maryland, conditioned to appear in court
at the return day of the process, &c. He did not appear, and the
recognizance was forfeited, and a scire facias was issued against him
and his sureties, returnable to December term 1833. At the same
term another writ of capias was issued against him, returnable immediately, and returned "non est inventus." At June vacation
1834, another writ of capias was issued againt him, returnable to
November term 1834, on which he was arrested, and from which arrest he was discharged on a habeas corpus by the chief justice of the
circuit court, on the ground that the writ of capias improperly issued.
On a return of this discharge by the marshal, a bench warrant was
issued by order of a majority of the judges of the circuit court, and on
which he was in custody. He applied for a writ of habeas corpus to
this court, to obtain his discharge. Held, that he was properly in
custody. The rule for the habeas corpus was refused, Ibid.
INDIANS, AND INDIAN GRANTS OF LAND.
Florida land claims, and Florida treaty.
INSOLVENT LAWS.
1. Constitutionality of the insolvent laws of the state of Ohio. Beers v.
Haughton. 329.
2. The legislature of Ohio possessed full constitutional authority to pass
laws whereby insolvent debtors should be released or protected from
arrest or imprisonment of their persons, on any action for any debt or
demand due by them. The right to imprison constitutes no part of

820

INDEX.

INSOLVENT LAWS.
the contract, and a discharge of the person of the party from imprisonment, does not impair the obligation of the contract, but leaves
it in full force against his property and effects. Ibid.
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE JURY ON A TRIAL OF ISSUES IN
FACT.
Trial by jury.
INTEREST.
No interest can be allowed on the execution of the mandate of the supreme court, issued on the affirmance of a decree of a circuit court
for a stated amount of money unless the supreme court had, in their
decree, ordered the same to be allowed. Boyce's Ezecutors v.
Grundy. 275.
JUDGMENTS.
1. A judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction while unreversed, concludes the subject matter of it, as between the same parties. United
States v. iourse. 8.
2. When the United States had proceeded on a treasury transcript, by a
warrant of distress against a public officer, for a balance alleged to be
due to the government, and after an injunction issued by the chief
justice of the circuit court of the District of Columbia, an examination
of the accounts between the United States and the defendant in the
warrant of distress took place under the order of the chiefjustice of
the circuit court, by which it was found that the United States were
largely indebted to the defendant, and the injunction was perpetuated it was held that this was a final judgment in the case, and
no suit could afterwards be instituted by the United States on the
said treasury transcript, so long as the decree of the chief justice of
the circuit court remined unreversed. The accounts between the
United States and the defendant in the warrant of distress, cannot
again be brought into litigation. Ibid.
JUDGMENTS AND DECREES OF STATE COURTS.
A decree of a county court of Virginia which would be enforced in Kentucky, will be enforced in the circuit court of the United States for
the district of Kentucky. Caldwelv. Carrzngten. 86.
JURISDICTION.
J. A lot of ground situated in the city of New Orleans, which was occupied, under an incomplete title, for some time by permission of the
Spanish government, granted before the acquisition of Louisiana by
the United States, was confirmed to the claimants, under the laws of
the United States, and a patent was issued for the same on the 17th
of February 1821. The city of New Orleans, claiming this lot as
being part of a quay dedicated to the use of the city, in the original
plan of the town, and therefore not grantable by the king of Spain ,
enlarged the Levee, in front of New Orleans, so as to include it.
The patentees from the United States brought a suit in the district
court of the state of Louisiana for the lot, which pronounced judg-

INDEX.

821

JURISDICTION.
ment in their favour, and that judgment was affirmed by the supreme
court of the state. The judgment was removed to this court, under
the twenty-fifth section of the judicial act. A motion was made to
dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction. By the Court.
The merits of this controversy cannot be revised in this tribunal.
The only inquiry here is, whether the record shows that the constitution, or a treaty, or a law of the United States has been violated by
the decision of that court. City of New Orleans v. De Armas a al.
224.
2. The twenty-fifth section of the judicial act is limited by the constitution, and must be construed so as to be confined within these limits.
But to construe this section so that a case can arise under the constitution or a treaty, only when the right is created by the constitution or treaty, would defeat the obvious purpose of the constitution,
as well as the act of congress. The language of both instruments
extends the jurisdiction of this court to rights protected by the constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, from whatever
source these rights may spring. Ibid.
3. To sustain the jurisdiction of the court in this case, it must be shown
that the title set up by the city of New Orleans, is protected by the
treaty ceding Louisiana to the United States, or by some act of congress applicable to that title. Ibid.
4. The third article of the treaty of Louisiana stipulates for the admission
of Louisiana into the union, and it obviously contemplates two objects: one that stated, and the other that, till that admission, the
inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be protected in the enjoyment
of their liberty, property and religion. Had any of these rights been
violated while the stipulation continued in force, the individual supposing himself to be injured, might have brought his case into this
court, under the twenty-fifth section of the judicial act.
bid.
5. But this stipulation ceased to operate when Louisiana became a member of the union, and its inhabitants were "admitted to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the
United States." The right to bring questions of title decided in a
state court before this tribunal, is not classed among those immunities. The inhabitants of Louisiana enjoy all the advantages of American citizens, in common with their brethren in their sister states;
when their titles are decided by the tribunals of the state. Ibid.
6. The act of congress admitting Louisiana into the union, carries into
execution the third article of the treaty of cession, and cannot be
construed to give appellate jurisdiction to the court over all questions
of title between the citizens of Louisiana. Ibid.
7. The patent granted to the claimants of the land did not profess to destroy any previous existing title; nor could itso operate. Thepatent
was issued under the act of May 1820, entitled "1an act supplementary to the several acts for the adjustment of land titles in the state of
Louisiana." That act confirms the titles to which it applies, "against
any claim on the part of the United States." The title
of the city of
New Orleans could not be affected by this confirmation. Ibid.
S. Jurisdiction of the supreme court in cases certified from circuit courts

INDEX.
JURISDICTION.
on a division of opinion between the 3udges of these courts.
States v. Bailey. 267.

United

LIEN.
A contract was made for the sale of a tract of land in Mississippi, and a
bill was filed in the circuit court of Tennessee to rescind it, and direct the repayment of the part of the purchase money paid to the
vendor, on the ground of misrepresentation of the quality of the land.
The court gave a decree in favour of the complainant, by which he
became entitled to recover from the defendant the sum of 2065 dollars and 21 cents. Held, that there was no lien on the land in Mississippi under this decree for the sum to which the complanan was
entitled, and that the land in Mississippi could not be sold by an
order of the circuit court of Tennessee. Boyce's Ezeeutorsv. Grundy.
275.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
1. Statutes of limitations are applied by courts of equity, in all cases where
at law they might be pleaded. At law, to make the statute a bar,
there must be an adverse possession, and by analogy a court of equity,
in a similar case, will hold the statute to be a good bar. But the
statute insisted on as a bar in this case, does not depend upon possession. It bars a creditor who does not sue the heir within seven
years. There can be no doubt that the statute applies, where a creditor seeks to make the heir liable for the debt of his ancestor, on the
ground that either personal or real property descended to him. And
this appears to be the decision of the supreme court of Tennessee on
the statute. There is nothing in their decisions referred to, which
show that they have given effect to the statute beyond this. By the
statute of 1819, which is wholly different in its language from the act
of 1815, a bar is created, indiscriminately, to suits in equity, as well
as at law. The statutes do not apply to this case. Coulson v. Walton. 62.
2. In a case in which there was a clear adverse possession of the real estate in controversy, without any acknowledgement of a trust in any
one, and no circumstances shown to overcome the decisive influence
of this adverse possession; the court held, that according to the established doctrine in courts of equity, independent of any legislative
limitations, it would not entertain so stale a demand. Piattv. Vattier. 405.
'3. Chancery, and chancery practice.
LOUISIANA.
1. Provisions of the laws of the United States, establishing the courts of
the United States in the district of Louisiana, and regulating the
practice in those courts. Livngston v. Story. 632.
2. By the provisions of the acts of congress,.Louisiana, when she came
into the union, had organized therein, a district court of the United
States, having the same jurisdiction, except as to appeals and write
of error, as the circuit courts of the United States in other states;
and the modes of proceeding in that court, were required to be ac-

INDEX.

823

LOUISIANA.
cording to tie principles, rules and usages which belong to courts of
equity, as contradistinguished from courts of common law. And
whether there were or not, in the several states, courts of equity
proceeding according to such principles and usages, made no difference; according to the construction unifQrmly given by this court.
mlid.
3. The provisions of the act of congress of 1824, relative to the practice
of the courts of the United States in Louisiana, contain the descriptive term civil actions, which embrace cases at law and in equity,
and may be fairly construed as used in contradistinction to criminal
causes. They apply equally to cases in equity, and if there are any
laws in Louisiana directing the mode of proceeding in equity causes,
they are adopted by that act, and will govern the practice in the
courts of the United States. Ibid.
LOUISIANA TREATY.
1. The stipulations of the treaty ceding Louisiana to the United States,
affording that protection or security to claims under the French or
Spanish government to which the act of congress refers, are in the
first, second and third articles. They extended to all property until Louisiana became a member of the union, into which the inhabitants were to be incorporated as soon as possible, "1and admitted to
all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United
States." The perfect inviolability and security of property is among
these rights. Delassus v. 27 United States.
2. The right of property is protected and secured by the treaty, and no
principle is better settled in this country, than that an inchoate title
to lands is property. This right would have been sacred, independent of the treaty. The sovereign who acquires an inhabited country, acquires full dominion over it; but this dominion is never supposed to divest the vested rights of individuals to property. The
language of the treaty ceding Louisiana, excludes any idea of inter.
fering with private property. Ibid.
MANDAMUS.
1. Louisiana. Mandamus. In the district court of the United States,
for the district of Louisiana, the district judge refused to extend a
judgment previously entered in the district court, so as to cover other
instalments due to the plaintiffs, which became due after it was entered; and to enter ajudgment in favour of the plaintiffs, mortgagees,
upon a proceeding which had been entered into with the mortgagor,
in relation to the debt due to the mortgagees, in which it was stipulated that judgment should be entered for certain instalments to be
paLd to the plaintiffs, on the non payment of the same - the district
judge not considering the plaintiffs entitled to have the judgment
entered according to the terms of the proceeding, without notice
to the debtor and his syndics, into whose hands his property had
passed under the insolvent law of Louisiana, after the execution
of the transaction and after a judgment for part of the debt had
been entered, which was the judgment asked to be extended.
The district judge was also required to receive a confession of

INDEX.
MANDAMUS.
judgment against the mortgagor and the insolvent, by an agent
of the plaintiffs, and whose powers to confess the judgment, the
district judge did not consider adequate and legal for the purpose.
An execution had been issued for a part of the debt, upon the previous judgment in the district court, and the execution was put into
the hands of the marshal of the United States; who, finding the
property of the insolvent defendant, the property mortgaged to the
plaintiffs, in the hands of the syndics of the creditors of the mortgagor, according to the insolvent laws of Louisiana, refused to proceed
and sell the same, and returned the execution unexecuted. An application was made to the supreme court for a mandamus, to com.
mand the district judge to enter the judgment required of'him, and
to receive the confession of the judgment bythe agentof the plaintiffs,
and award execution thereon, and also to compel him to oblige the
marshal to execute the execution in his hands, on the property of
the defendant wherever found. The court refused to award a mandamus on any of the grounds, or for any of the purposes stated in
the application. Life and Fire Insurance Company of ew York v.
A8dams. 573.
2. To extend a judgment to subjects not comprehended m it, is to make
a new judgment. This court is requested to issue a mandamus to
the court for the' eastern district of Louisiana, to enter a judgment in
a cause supposed to be depending in that court, not according to
the opinion which it may have formed on the matter in controversy,
but according to the opinions which may be formed in this court, on
the suggestions of one of the parties. The 'court is asked to decide
that the merits of the cause are with the plaintiff; and to command
the district judge to render judgment in his favour. It is an attempt
to introduce the supervisory power of this court into a cause while
depending in an inferior court, and prematurely to decide it. In
addition to the obvious unfitness of such a procedure, its direct repugnance to the spirit and letter of our whole judicial system cannot
escape notice. Ibid.
3. The supreme court, in the exercise of its ordinary appellate jurisdiction, can take cognizance of no case until a final judgment or decree
shall have been made in the inferior court. Though the merits of
the cause may have been substantially decided, while any thing,
though merely formal, remains to be done, this court cannot pass
upon the subject. If, from any intermediate stage in the proceedings, an appeal might be taken to the supreme court, the appeal
might be repeated to the great oppression of parties. So if this conrt
might interpose by way of mandamus, in the progress of a cause, and
order a judgment or decree, a writ of error might be brought to the
judgment, or an appeal prayed from the decree, and a judgment or
decree entered in pursuance of the mandamus might be afterwards
reversed. Such a proceeding would subvert our whole system of
jurisprudence. Ibid.
4. The mandamus ordered by this court, 8 Peters 306, diiected the performance of a mere mimsterial act. Ibid.
5. In the particular case in which the creditor asks for a mandamus to
the district judge to compel the marshal to seize and sell the property

INDEX.
MANDAMUS.
mentioned in the writ, that property is no longer in the possession of
the debtor against whom the process is directed, but has been transferred, by law, to other persons, who are directed by the same law
in what manner they are to dispose of it. To construe the law, or
to declare the extent of its obligation, the questions must be brought
before this court in proper form, and in a case in which it can take
jurisdiction. This case, so far as it is before any.judicial tribunal, is
depending in the district court of the United States, and perhaps in
a state court in Louisiana. The supreme court of the United States
has no original jurisdiction over it, and cannot exercise appellate
jurisdiction previous to a final judgment or decree, further than to
order acts, purely ministerial, which the duty of the district court
requires it to perform. This court cannot, in such a condition of a
case, construe judicially the laws which govern it, or decide in whom
the property is vested. In so doing, it would intrude itself into the
management of a case requiring all the discretion of the district
judge, and usurp his powers. Ibid.
6. Though the supreme court will not order an inferior tribunal to render
judgment for or against either party, it will, in a proper case, order
such court to proceed to judgment. Should it be possible, that in a
case ripe for judgment, the court before whom it was depending
could perseveringly refuse to terminate the cause, this court, with
Qut indicating the character of the judgment, would be required by
its duty to order the rendition of some judgment: but, to justify this
mandate, a plain case of refusing to proceed in the inferior court,
ought to be made out. Ibid.
MANDATE OF THE SUPREME COURT.
Boyce's Executors v. Grundy. 275.
MANUMISSION.
1. A testatrix by her will directed that certain slaves should be manu
mitted at her death, and charged a portion of her real estate, specifically devised, with the payment of annuities to some of those slaves.
She left a considerable real estate, and some personal estate, but not
sufficient to pay her debts. The executor suffered the manumitted
persons to go at large as free, for some years; but afterwards, on finding that the personal estate would not pay the debts of the testator,
he obtained an order for the sale of all the personal estate, having
included the slaves manumitted in the inventory, and sold those
persons as slaves. Held, that the persons who had been manumitted
by the will were free, and that under the laws of Maryland authorizing manumissions of slaves by will, provided it was not done to the
injury of creditors, the manumission was valid , and the executor
must resort to the real estate for the funds to pay off the debts of the
testator. Fenwzck v. Clapman. 461. ,
2. By the statute of Maryland of 1796, ch. 67, s. 13, manumissions of
slaves, by will and testament, may be made to take effect at the death
of the testator. The testator may devise or charge his real estate
VOL. Ix.-5 D

826

INDEX.

MANUMISSION.
with the payment of oebts, to make the manumission effective, and
not in prejudice of creditors. Ibid.
3. The right to freedom may be tried at law, in a suit against the executors,
at the instance of the manumitted slaves, and the executor may, iii
such suit, admit the existence of a sufficiency of real assets or real
estate to pay the debts of his testator. Ibid.
4. A judgment at law in favour of manumitted slaves, in a suit against
an executor, obtained on the admission by the executor of a sufliciency of assets, may be set aside in equity, if such admission was
made without foundation in fact, or in fraud or mistake. In such a
proceeding in equity, to which the executor, the manumitted slaves,
and all persons interested have been made parties, there may be an
entire review of the administration of the estate, of the conduct of
the executor, and that of the creditors, in regard to the estate, and
in respect to the vigilance of the executor in paying, and of the creditors in the pursuit of their debts. Ibid.
5. The words in a will, ",after my debts and funeral charges are paid, I
devise and bequeath as follows," amount to a charge upon the real
estate for the payment of debts. Ibid.
6. When a testator manumits his slaves by will and testament, and it
clearly appears to have been his intention that the manumission shall
take place at all events; the manifest intention, without express
words, to charge the real estate, will charge the real estate for the
payment of debts, if there be not personal assets enough without the
manumitted slaves, to pay the debts of the testator. Ibid.
7. In such a case, the creditors of the testator must look to the real estate
for the payment of debts which remain unpaid, after the personal
estate, exclusive of the manumitted slaves, has been exhausted, and
they may pursue their claims in equity, or according to the statutes
of Maryland subjecting real estate to the payment of debts. Ibid.
8 When an executor permits manumitted slaves to go at large and free
under a manumission to take effect at the death of the testator, he
cannot recall such assent. Nor can it be revoked under an order of
the orphan's court of Maryland for the sale of all the personal estate
of the testator; that court not having jurisdiction of the question of
manumission. Ibid.
9. It being admitted that a testator left real estate to an amount in value
more than sufficient to pay his debts, without the sale of slaves
manumitted by his willthose persons are free, notwithstanding a deficiency 6f personal assets. Ibid.
MARSHAL OF THE UNITED STATES.
It is the duty of a marshal of a court of the United States, to execute all
process which maybe placed in hii hands; but he performs this duty.
at his peril, and under the guidance of law. He must, of course,
exercise some judgment in the performance. Should he fail to obey
the exigit of the writ without a legal excuse, or should he in its letter violate the rights of others , he is liable to the action of the injured party. The Life and Fire Insurance Company of Xcw York v.
Adams. 573.

INDEX.
MINORS.
It is the duty of the court to protect the interest- of minors.
Walton. 62.

Coulson v.

MISSOURI LAND CLAIMS.
1. Confirmation of a Spanish grant of a tract of land in Missouri. Delasus v. The United States. 117.
2 A grant or concession made by an officer who is by law authorized to
make it, carries with it prima facie evidence that it is within his
powers. No excess of them, or departure from them, is to be presumed. He violates his duty by such excess, and is responsible for
it. He who alleges that an officer entrusted with an important duty
has violated his instructions, must show it. Ibid.
3. The instructions of governor O'Reilly, relative to granting lands in
Louisiana, were considered by the court, in 8 Peters 455. These
regulations were intended for the general government of subordinate
officers, and not to control and limit the power of the person from
whose will they emanated. The baron De Carondelet must be supposed to have had all the powers which had been vested in Don
O'Reilly, and a concession ordered by him is as valid as a similar
concession directed by governor O'Reilly would have been. Ibid.
4 A concession of land was made by the lieutenant governor of upper
Louisiana, at the time when the power of granting lands was vested
in the governors of provinces. This power was, in 1799, after the
concession, transferred to the intendant.general, and after this
transfer, in January 1800, the order of survey of the land was made
by the lieutenant governor. The validity of the order of survey depends on the authority of the lieutenant governor to make it. The
lieutenant governor was also a sub-delegate, and as such was empowered to make inchoate grants. The grant was confirmed. Chouteau's Hezrs v. The United States. 137.
5. The transfer of the power to make concessions of lands belonging to
the royal domain of Spain, from the governor-general to the intendant.general, did not affect the power of the sub-delegate, who made
this concession. The order in-this case is thQ foundation of title, and
is, according to the act of congress on the subject of confirming titles
to lands in Missouri, &c., and the general understanding and usage of
Louisiana and Missouri, capable of being perfected into a complete
title. It is property, capable of being alienated, of being subjected
to debts: and is, as such, to be held as sacred and inviolate as other
property. Ibid.
6. A concession of one league square of land, in upper Louisiana, was
made by Don Zenon Trudeau, the lieutenant governor of that province, to Auguste Chouteau, and a decree made by him directing
the surveyor-general of the province to put him in possession of the
land, and to survey the same, in order to enable Chouteau to solicit
a complete title thereof from the governor-general, who by the said
decree was informed that the circumstances of Chouteau were such
as entitled him to a grant of the land. The land was surveyed, and
the grantee put in full possession of it on the 20th of December
1803. He retained possession of it until his death. The objection
to the validity of the concession was, that the petitioner had not as

828

INDEX.

MISSOURI LAND CLAIMS.
many tame cattle as the eighth regulation of governor O'Reilly, governor-general of Louisiana, required. That regulation required
that the applicant for a grant of a league square of land should make
it appear that he is possessed of one hundred head of tame cattle,
some horses and sheep, and two slaves to look after them, a proportion which shall always be observed for the grants, &c. By the
Court. In the spirit of the decisions which have been heretofore
made by this court, and of the acts of confirmation passed by congress, the fact that the applicant possessed the requisite amount of
property to entitle him to the land he solicited, was submitted to the
officer who decided on the application, and he is not bound to prove
it to the court, which passes on the validity of the grant. These incomplete titles were transferable, and the assignee might not possess
the means of proving the exact number of cattle in possession of the
petitioner when the concession was made. The grant was confirmed. Chouteau's Hers v. The United States. 147.
7. If the court can trust the information received on this subject, neither
the governor nor the intendant-general has ever refused to perfect
an incomplete title granted by a deputy governor or sub-delegate.
Ibid.
8 The regulation made by Don O'Reilly, as to the quantity of land to
be granted to an individual, is not that no individual shall receive
grants for more than one league square, but that no grant shall exceed a league square. The words of the regulation do not forbid
different grants to the same person, and, so far as the court are informed, it has never been so construed. Ibid.
OPINIONS OF JUDGES OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
1. Opinions of Mr Chief Justice Marshall and Judge Barbour in the
case of Ex parts Robert B. Randolph. in the circuit court of the
United States, in the eastern district of Virginia, delivered December 21st 1833. United States v. .ourse. 12.
2. Opinion of the circuit court of the eastern district of Pennsylvania,
delivered by Mr Justice Baldwin in the case of Poole and others
v. Nixon and Aspden. ApFendix 11. 770.
PASSPORT.
A passport granted and certified by the secretary of state, under the impression of the seal of the United States, stating the person named
therein to be a citizen of the United States, is not, per so, legal evidence of the facts stated therein. Urtetiqut v. D'Arbel and others.
692.
PERJURY.
1. Indijtment for false swearing, under the third section of the act of
congress of March 1, 1823, which declares that C1any person who shall
swear or affirm falsely, touching the expenditure of public money,
or in support of any claim against the United States, shall suffer as
for wilful and corrupt perjury." United States v. Bailey. 238.
2. The indictment charged the false swearing to be an affidavit made be-

INDEX.

829

PERJURY.
fore a justice of the peace of Kentucky, in support of a claim against
the United States; under the act of congress of July 1832, to provide
for liquidating and paying certain claims of the state of Virginia.
Ibid.
3. There is no statute of the United States which expressly authorizes
any justice of the peace of a state, or any officer of the national
government, judicial or otherwise, to administer an oath in support
of any claim against the United States, under the act of 1823. Ibid.
4. The secretary of the treasury, in order to carry into effect the authority given to him to liquidate and pay the claims referred to in the
act of 1832, had established a regulation authorising affidavits made
before any justice of the peace of a state to be received and considered in proof of claims under the act. By implication he possessed
the power to make such a regulation, and to allow such affidavits in
proof of claims under the act of 1832. It was incident to his duty
and authority in settling claims under the act. When the oath is
taken before a state or national magistrate, authorized to administer
oaths, in pursuance of any regulations prescribed by the treasury
department, or in conformity with the practice and usage of the treasury department, so that the affidavit would be admissible evidence
at the department in support of any claim against the United States,
and the party swears falsely, the case is within the provision of the
act of 1823, ch. 165. Ibid.
5. If a state magistrate shall administer an oath under an act of congress
expressly giving him the power to do so, it would be a lawful oath,
by one having competent authority; and as much so as if he had
been specially appointed a commissioner under a law of the United
States for that purpose: and such an oath, administered under such
circumstances, would be within the purview of the act of 1823. Ibid.
6. The act of 1823 does not create or punish the crime of perjury, technically considered. But it creates a new and substantial offence of false
swearing, and punishes it in the same manner as perjury. The oath,
therefore, need not be administered in a judicial proceeding, or in a
case of which the state magistrate under the state laws had jurisdiction, so as to make the false swearing perjury It would be sufficient
that it might be lawfully administered by the magistrate, and was not
in violation of his official duty. Ibid.
7. The language of the act of 1823 should be construed with reference
to the usages of the treasury department. The false sweaking and
false affirmation referred to in the act, ought to be construed to include all cases of swearing and affirmation required by the practice
of the department in regard to the expenditure of public money, or
in support of any claims against the United States. The language
of the act is sufficiently broad to include all such cases; and there is
no reason for excepting them from the words, as they are within the
policy of the act, and the mischief to be remedied. Ibid.
8. The act does no more than change a common law offence into a statute
offence. Ibid.
PRACTICE.
1. The original writ was issued out of the circuit court of the district of

INDEX.
PRACTICE.
Columbia, dated 2d of December 1831, and was returned 11executed"
on the first Monday of the same December, the return day of the
succeeding term. The defendant appeared by his attorney on the
return day, and obtained a rule on the plaintiffs to declare against
him., The circuit court, on the trial of the cause, directed the jury
to find damages against the defendant, for the hire of a steamboat,
for which the action was brought, from the 20th of November 1831
to the 6th of February 1832, whereas the suit was instituted on the
2d of December 1831. These instructions were erroneous, as damages were to be given to a time long posterior to the institution of
the action. Bradley v. The Steam Packet Company. 107.
2. The district court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, adopted a rule which was analogous to the law of Louisiana,
by which the security, in an appeal bond, shall have a summary
judgment entered against him on notice, the appeal having failed.
The judgment was entered, he not having appeared after notice, and
the defendant caie in subsequently and prayed a trial by jury, which
was refused by the court. There was no error in this decision.
Hirnart v. Ballon. 156.
PRIORITY OF THE UNITED STATES.
1. The United States obtained judgments in suits instituted on bonds for
duties, in the district court of the United States of Louisiana. Before
the judgments, the debtor to the United States had become insolvent,
and his property, under the insolvent laws of Louisiana, had passed
into the hands of syndics for distribution among his creditors, according to their respective priorities, and the syndics sold the property part for cash and part on credits of one, two and three years.
The whole proceeds of the estate exceeded 40,000 dollars; the
mortgages were about 27,000 dollars; and when all the notes taken
by the syndics were paid, there would be sufficient to discharge
these mortgages, and all the debts due to the United States. A
a large amount of the proceeds was not to be received until after the
judgments in a suit against the syndics were obtained in favour of
the United States; one moiety of the amount of sales being payable
after the suit against the syndics was commenced, and the other after
the judgment against them was rendered. The court held. that the
syndics were not liable to the United States for the debts due to them,
unless funds had actually come into their hands. As one moiety of
the notes was not paid at the time of the judgment of the United
States against them, it does not judicially appear that they had funds
on which the United States were entitled tQ judgment. If the remaining moiety of the notes has since been paid, the United States
will then have a legal claim thereon for their debts. Field et al.v.
The United States. 182
2. The United States were not parties to the proceedings in the parish
I
ourt, nor were they bound to appear and become parties therein.
The local laws of the state could and did not bind them in their
rights. They could not create a priority in favour of other creditors
in cases of insolvency, which should supersede that of the United
States. Ibid.

INDEX.
PRIORITY OF THE UNITED STATES.
3. The priority of the United States attached, by the laws of the United
States, in virtue of the assignment and notice to the syndics; and it
was the duty of the syndics to have made known these debts in their
tableau of distribution, as having had priority. The mortgages upon
particular estates sold, must be first paid out of the sales of those estates. But if there be any deficiency in the proceeds of any particular estate, to pay the mortgages thereon, the mortgagees thereof
cannot come in upon the funds and proceeds of the sales of the other
estates, except as general creditors. Ibid.
PROCESS IN THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES.
The process act of 1798 expressly adopts the mesne process, and modes
of proceeding in suits at common law, then existing in the highest state court, under the state laws; which of course included all
the regulations of the state laws as to bail, and exemptions of the
party from arrest and imprisopment. In regard, also, to writs of
execution, and other final process, and ii theproceedingsthereupon;"
it adopts an equally comprehensive language, and declares they shall
be the same as were then used in the courts of the state. Beers v.
Haughton. 329.
PROMISSORY NOTES.
1. The general rule, as laid down by this court in Lenox v. Roberts, 2
Wheat. 373, 4 Cond. Rep. 163, is, that the demand of payment of
a promissory note should be made on the last day of grace; and notice of the default of the maker be put into the post -office, early
enough to be sent by the mail of the succeeding day. Bank of Alexandriav. Swann. 33.
2. The law, generally speaking, does not regard the fractions of a day;
and although the demand of payment of a promissory note at the
bank is required to be made during banking hours, it would be unreasonable, and against what the special verdict finds to have been
the usage of the bank at that time, to require notice of non payment
to be sent to the indorser on the same day. This usage of the bank
corresponds with the rule of law on the subject. Ibid.
3. If the time of sending notice is limited to fractions of a day, it will
always come in question how swiftly notice could be conveyed. The
notice sent by the mail, the next day after the dishonour of the note,
was in due time. Ibid.
4. The law has prescribed no particular form for such notice. The object of it is merely to inform the indorser of the non payment by the
maker, and that he is held liable for the payment thereof. ibid.
5. The note on which the suit was brought was for 1400 dollars, drawn
by H. P. in favour of the defendant in error, and the notice describes
it as for the sum of 1457 dollars. In the margin of tlhe note is set
down in figures 1457 dollars, and the special verdict found that the
note was discounted at the bank, as for a note of 1457 dollars. The
defendant in error was not an indorser on any other note drawn by
H. P. and discounted at the bank, or placed there for collection.
By the Court. This case falls within the rule laid down by this
court in the case of Mills v. The Bank of the United States, 11

832

INDEX.

PROMISSORY NOTES.
Wheat. 431, 6 Cond. Rep. 373, that every variance, however immaterial, is not fatal to the notice. Ibid.
RULES OF COURI.
1. General rules of court of the district court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana. 157.
2. The circuit court of Ohio established a rule of court conforming to
the laws of Ohio, by which a person who had been discharged by
the insolvent law of the state, was not to be imprisoned for his
debts. An exoneretur was entered so as to discharge the bail
of the, insolvent, in conformity with the law of Ohio, and the
rules of the courts of Ohio; the circuit court acting under the
provisions of the act of the 19th of May 1828 regulating process
and proceedings in the courts of the United States. By the
Court. Under the authority conferred on the courts of the United
States by the acts of 1789 and 1792, there would be no solid objection to the decision of the circuit court of Ohio, in this case,
but it is directly within, and governed by, the process act of the 19th
of May 1828I, ch. 63. Beers v. Haugiton. 330.
SET-OFF.
1. The rule as to set-off, in questions arising exclusively under the laws
of the United States, cannot be influenced by any local law or usage.
The rule must be uniform in the different states , for it constitutes
the law of the courts of the United States, in a matter which relates
to the federal government. United States v. Robeson. 319.
2. When a defendant has, in his own right, an equitable claim against
the government for services rendered or otherwise, and has presented it to the proper accounting officer of the government, who
has refused to allow it, he may set up the claim as a credit in a suit
brought against him, for any balance of money claimed to be due by
the government; and when the vouchers are not in the power of the
defendant before the trial, or, from the peculiar circumstances of the
case, a presentation of the claim to the treasury could not be required, the off-set may be submitted to the action of the jury. But
a claim for unliquidated damages cannot be pleaded by way of setoff, in an action between individuals, and the same rule governs in
an action brought by the government. Ibid.
SPECIFIC EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.
1. A bond was executed in 1787 by which the obliger bound himself to
pay 100 pounds for a horse, or to make over to the obligee his interest
in a certain entry and warrant of land; and if the deed or grant for the
land should issue to him, to transfer the land by deed, and to warrant and defend the said deed. The obliger elected to pay the bond
by giving the land for the same. He made no valid conveyance of
the land in his life time, but it was taken possession of by the obligee, and has ever since been occupied under the title so acquired by
the obligee. After the son and sole heir of.the obliger came of age,
he commenced an action of ejectment for the land; and those who
claimed title under the obligee filed a bill for an injunction, and

INDEX.

833

SPECIFIC EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.
that the defendant, the plaintiff in the ejectment, be decreed to convey the land according to the stipulations in the bond. This bill
was filed in 1822. The court said, in considering the question as to
the genuineness of the bond on which this controversy is founded,
the first important fact that occurs to the mind is, the remoteness
of the transaction. Nearly half a century has elapsed since this
instrument purports to have been executed. The obligor and the
obligee, and both the witnesses are dead. The contract belongs to
the past age. It was executed, if at all, when the country was new
and unsettled, and the parties to it seem to have been illiterate men,
and unacquainted with business transactions. These circumstances
are referred to, not to show that this bond should be received without proof, but to show that as strict proof should not be required of
its execution as if it were of recent date. The law makes some allowance for the frailties of memory, and where a great length of time
has elapsed since the sigmng of an instrument attempted to be proved,
circumstances are viewed as having an important bearing upon
the question. Coulson v. Walton. 62.
2. King's Heirs v. Thompson and Wife. 204.
STATE LAWS.
I. State laws cannot control the exercise of the powers of the national
government, or in any manner limit or affect the operation of the
process or proceedings in the national courts. The whole efficacy
of such laws in the courts of the United States, depends upon the
enactments of congress. So far as they are adopted by congress,
they are obligatory. Beyond this they have no controllinginfluence.
Congress may adopt such state laws, directly, by substantive enactments, or, they may confide the authority to adopt them, to the
courts of the United States. Beers v. RaugLion. 329.
2. The circuit courts of the United States are created by congress, not
for the purpose of administering the local law of a single state alone,
but to administer the laws of all the states in the union, in cases to
which they respectively apply. The judicial power conferred on the
general government by the constitution, extends to many cases
arising under the laws of the different states, and this court is
called upon, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, constantly
to take notice of, and administer the jurisprudence of all the states.
That jurisprudence is then in no just sense a foreign jurisprudence
to be proved in the courts of the United States, by the ordinary
modes of proof by which the laws of a foreign country are to be
established, but it is to be judicially taken notice of in the same, as
the laws of the United States are taken notice of in those courts.
Owings v. Hull. 607.
STATE MAGISTRATES.
1. Perjury.
2. Affidavits.
TRIAL BY JURY.
1. When there is no evidence tending to prove a particular fact, the court

VOL. Ix.-5 E

INDEX.
TRIAL BY JURY
are bound so to instruct the jury when requested; but they cannot
legally, give any instructions, which -will take from the jury the
right of weighing what effect the evidence shall have. An instruction founded on part of the evidence is erroneous. Greenleaf v.
BoothI. 292.
2. The court was requested to say to the jury, that the facts given in
evidence sn the trial of the case did not import such a lending as
would support the defence of usury. By the Court. The court was
asked to usurp the province of the jury, and to decide on the sufficiency of the testimony, in violation of the well established principle,
that the law is referred to the court, the fact to the jury. Scott v.
Lloyd. 418.
3. An instruction to the jury which would separate the circumstances of
the case from each other, and the object of which is to induce the
court, after directing the jury that they ought to be considered together, to instruct them that, separately, no one in itself amounted to
usury, ought not to have been given. Ibid.
4. The court ought not to instruct, and indeed cannot instruct, on the
sufficiency of evidence, but no instruction to the jury should be
given except upon evidence in the case. Where there is evidence
on a point, the court may be called upon to instruct the jury on the
law, but it is for them to determine on the effect of evidence.
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others. 541.
USURY.
1. The branch Bank of the United States at Lexington, Kentucky, having in its possession a large amount of the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, on which the Bank of Kentucky had agreed to pay interest
yearly until they should redeem the said notes in specie, at the earnest solicitation of the borrower, loaned, on a promissory note payable
with interest in three years, the sum of 5000 dollars in those notes
and in a check on the Bank of Kentucky, by which the debt due to
the Bank of the United States from the Bank of Kentucky was diminished to the amount of the loan. The borrower, at the time of the
loan, declared the notes of the Bank of Kentucky equivalent, for his
purposes, to gold or silver. The Bank of Kentucky, long before the
note given for the loan became due, redeemed their notes held by
the Bank of the United States, and paid all the debt due to that bank
with the interest due thereon. Held, that there was no usury in this
transaction. Bank of the United States v. Waggener et al. 378.
2. In construing the usury laws, the uniform construction in Englund
has been, and it is equally applicable here, that to constitute usury
within the prohibitions of the law, there must be an intention knowingly to contract for and to take usurious interest; for if neither
party intend it, and act bona fide and innocently, the law will not
infer a corrupt agreement. Ibid.
3. There has been no taking of usury and no reservation of usury on the
face of this transaction. The case, then, resolves itself into this inquiry, whether, upon the evidence, there was any such corrupt agreement, or device, or shift to reserve or take usury. Ibid.
4. Because an article is depreciated in the market, it does not follow that
the owner is not entitled to demand or require a higher price for it,

INDEX.

835

USURY.
before he consents to part with it. He may possess bank notes which
to him are of par value, in payment of his own debts, or in payment
of public taxes; and yet their marketable value may be far less. If
he uses no disguise, if he seeks not to cover a loan of money, under
the pretence of a sale or exchange of them, but the transaction is
bona fide what it purports to be; the law will not set aside the contract, for it is no violation of any public policy against usury. Ibid.
5. The statute against usury not only forbids the direct taking more than
six per centum per annum for the loan or forbearance of any sum of
money; but it forbids any shift or device by which this prohibition
maybe evaded, and a greater interestbe in fact secured. If a larger
sum than six per cent be not expressly reserved, the instrument will
not of itself expose the usury, but the real corruptness of the contract
must be shown by extrinsic circumstances, which prove its character. Scott v. Lloyd. 418.
"
6. The statute declares, that no person shall on any contract take, directly or indirectly, for loan of any money, &c., above the value of
six dollars, for the forbearance of 100 dollars, for a year." It has
been settled, that to constitute the offence there must be a loan, upon
which more than six per cent interest is to be received; and it has
been also settled, that where the contract is in truth for the borrowing and lending of money, no form which can be given to it will
free it from the taint of usury, if more than legal interest be secured.
Ibid.
7. Annuities.
VENDOR AND PURCHASER.
1. Under a power of attorney granted to him to sell personal property in
New Orleans, given by constituents residing in Baltimore, the attorney sold certain slaves, without conforming to the provisions of
the laws of Louisiana regulating such sales. The property sold was
recovered from the purchaser by a paramount title, and he instituted
a suit against the grantors of the power of attorney, to recover the
money paid to the attorney, but which had not been paid over to his
principals, he having become insolvent. Held, that the plaintiff, in
order to recover in the suit, should have proved that the sale of the
slaves was in conformity with the laws of the state of Louisiana.
Owngs v. Hull. 607.
2. The purchaser was bound to see whether the agent acted within the
scope of his powers; and at all events, he was bound to know that
the agent could not, in virtue of any general power, do any act
which was not in conformity with the laws of Louisiana. The principals could never be presumed to authorize him to violate those
laws , and the purchaser, purchasing a title invalid by those laws,
must have purchased it with full knowledge. Ibid.
WARRANT OF DISTRESS.
1. Construction of statutes of the United States.
2. Judgment.
WILLS, AND PROBATE OF WILLS.
1. The testator made his will stating that "being about to take a long

INDEX.
WILLS, AND PROB3ATE OF WILLS.
journey and knowing the uncertainty of life, he deemed it advisable
to make a will." He returned from the journey, and died many
years afterwards. This is not a conditional will. The instrument
taking effect as a will, is not made to depend upon the event of the
return or not of the testator from his journey. There is therefore no
colour for annulling the will that it was conditional. Tarser v.
Tarer. 174.
2. In the case of Armstrong v. Lear, 12 Wheat. 175,6 Cond. Rep. 500, it
was said by this court, that no other evidence of there being a will
can be received by the court, than such as would be sufficient in all
other cases where titles are derived under a will, and nothing but the
probate, or letters of administration with the will annexed, are legal
evidence in all questions respecting personalty. But the rule there
laid down does not apply to this case. Here the complainant set up
the will as a source of his title, and was bound to prove it; which
must be done by the probate, which must be set forth in the bill. In
this case the complainant had set forth a copy of the instrument in
his bill, alleging it was conditional, and therefore not valid. The
defendant was under no obligation to produce any probate. Every
thing, by the complainant's own showing, was before the court.
Ibid.
3. An original bill will not be sustained on the allegation that the probate
of the will is void. If any error was committed by the court of Dallas county in admitting the will to probate, it should have been corrected by an appeal to the next term of the supreme court in chancery,
or in the district of Washington, to the superior court of that district,
according to the law of Alabama. Ibid.
4. The words of a will, " after my debts and funeral charges are paid, I
devise and bequeath as follows," amount to a charge upon the real
as well as the personal estate for the payment of debts. Fenwzck
v Chapman. 461.
5. The language of wills is not of universal interpretation, having the
same import in all countries and under all circumstances. They are
supposed to speak the sense of the testator according to the received
laws and usages of the country where he is domiciled, by a sort of
tacit reference to them, unless there is something in the language
which repels or controls such a conclusion. In regard to personalty,
in an especial manner the law of the place of the testator's domicil
governs the distribution thereof, unless it is manifest that the testator
had the laws of some other country an view. Rarrison v. .Jixon.
483.
6. No one can doubt if a testator, born and domieiled'in England during
his life, by his will gives his personal estate to his heir at law, that
the descriptio personie would have reference to and be governed by
the import of the terms, in the sense of the laws of England. The
import of them might be very different if the testator were born
and domiciled in France, in Lomsiana, Pennsylvania or Massachusetts. Ibid.
7. A will of personalty speaks according to the testator's domicil, when
there are no other circumstances to contract the application. To
raise the question what the testator meant, it must first be ascer-

INDEX.
WILLS, AND PROBATE OF WILLS.
tamed where was his donicil, and whether he had reference to the
laws of that place, or to the laws of a foreign country. ibid.
WRIT OF ERROR.
1. A writ of error will not lie on a case in which a circuit court had
awarded a writ of restitution, in an action of ejectment, the marshal
having erroneously executed a writ of habere facias possesslonem,
which had been previously issued in the case. Smith v. Trabue's
kers. 4.

THE END.

