SUPREME COURT.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. GEORGE

J. F

CLARKE.

The decree of the supreme court of East Florida, confirming a concession of
land to the appellee, granted to him by governor Coppinger, in December
1817, confirmed.
A concession on condition, becomes absolute when the condition is performed.
The original concession by governor Coppinger, on the petition of George
J. F. Clarke, was made on the 17th of December 1817, of twenty-six
thousand acres of land, in the places he solicited in his petition, and a
complete title was made of twenty-two thousand acres, part of the same, in
December 1817. Twenty thousand acres, part of the whole concession,
were sold by the appellee. The other four thousand were surveyed in conformity with the decree of 17th of December 1817, and a complete title to
the same was made by governor Coppinger, on the 4th of May 1818. By
the Court. The claimant cannot avail himself of the grant of the 4th of May
1818, made after the 24th of January 1818, the time limited by the Florida
treaty. He must rest Ins claim on the concession made on the 17th of
December 1817.
The validity of concessions of land, by the authorities of Spain in East Florida,
is expressly recogmzed in the Florida treaty, and in the several acts of
congress.
The eighth article allows the owners of land, the same time for fulfilling the
conditions of their grants from the date of the treaty, as is allowed in the
grant from the date of the instrument. And the act of the 8th of May 1822,
requires every person claiming title to lands, under any patent, grant, concession, or order of survey dated previous to the 24th of January 1818, to
file his claim before the commissioners, appointed in pursuance of that act.
All the subsequent acts on the subject observe the same language, and the
titles under these concessions have been uniformly confirmed, when the
tract did not exceed a league square.

APPEAL from the supreme court of East Florida.
The case was argued by Mr Call, for the appellants, and by
Mr Wilde, for the appellee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case is in many respects.similar to that which has been
decided at this term, between the same parties. (a) The appellee
(a) This case was decided at January term 1834, but the opinion was
not received by the Reporter until after the publication of the Reports of the
term.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Clarke.]

filed his petition before the distnct court of East Florida, asserting a title to twenty-six thousand acres of land, granted by
Don Jose Coppinger, governor of that territory, while under
the dominion of his catholic majesty.
The petition presented by Clarke to the Spanish governor,
asks, in consideration of services and as a remuneration for
losses sustained, all which he states, twenty-six thousand acres
of land in the following places twenty-two thereof, in the
Hammocks of Cuscoville and Chachala, and the four remaining at a vacant place called Yallahassa, on the west of the
river St John.
On the 171h of December 1817, the governor passed a decree
granting in absolute property to the said Don George Clarke
the twenty-six thousand acres of land in the places he solicits
in his petition, and a complete title was made in December
1817, to twenty-two thousand lying in the Hammocks, known
by the names of Ctiscoville and Chachala. The petition filed
in the district court states, that twenty thousand acres, part
of this tract, have been surveyed at the place designated, and
sold to John De Centralgo.
The other four thousand acres were surveyed in conformity
with the decree, and a complete title made by governor Coppinger on the 4th of May 1818.
The court decreed the claim to be valid, and reciting that
twenty thousand acres, part of the twenty-two thousand, had
been on the same day confirmed to Moses E. Levy, on his petition for the same; proceeded to decree the remaining four
thousand acres to the petitioner
The United States appealed from this decree.
The only question not already decided, which is made in this
case, arises from the fact, that the full title for the four thousand acres of land in controversy, was made after the 24th of
January 1818. The petitioner therefore cannot avail himself
of that grant, and must rest his claim on the concession made
the 17th of December 1817. That concession is unconditional,
but the counsel for the United States contends that it can give
no valid title. The argument is understood to have been applied to concessions made absolutely, as well as to those made
on condition, and the court will therefore consider it as appliVOL. IX.-W

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

cable to both. A concession on condition, becomes absolute
when the condition is performed.
The validity of concessions is, we think, expressly recognized both in the treaty, and in the several acts of congress.
The eighth article allows the owners of lands the same time
for fulfilling the conditions of their grants, from the date of the
treaty, as is allowed in the grant from the date of the instrument, and the act of the 8th of May 1822, requires every person claiming title to lands under any patent, grant, concession,
or order of survey, dated previous to the 24th day of January
1818, to file his claim before the commissioners appointed in
pursuance of that act. All the subsequent acts on the subject
observe the same language , and the titles held under these
concessions have been uniformly confirmed, where the tract
did not exceed-a league square. The question is not now open
for discussion. The decree is confirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the superior court for the eastern district of Florida, and
was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said
superior court in this cause confirming the title of the claimant
be, and the same is hereby affirmed in all respects.

