JANUARY TERM 1835.

AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU's HEIRS V. THE UNITED STATES.
A concession of land was made by the lieutenant governor of upper Louisiana
at the time when the power of granting lands was vested in the governors
of provinces. This power was, in 1799, after the concession, transferred to
the intendant-general, and after this transfer, in January 1800, the order
of survey of the land was made by the lieutenant governor. The validity
of the order of survey depends on the authority of the lieutenant governor
to make it. The lieutenant governor was also a sub-delegate, and as such
was empowered to make inchoate grants. The grant was confirmed.
The transfer of the power to make concessions of lands belonging to the royal
domain of Spain, from the governor-general to the intendant-general, did
not affect the power of the sub-delegate, who made this concession. The
order in this case is the foundation of title, and is, according to the act of
congress on the subject of confirming titles to lands in Missouri, &c., and
the general understanding and usage of Louisiana and Missouri, capable of
being perfected into a complete title. It is property, capable of being alienated, of being subjected to debts; and is, as such, to be held as sacred and
inviolate as other property.

ON appeal from the district court of the United States for the
district of Missouri.

On the 18th of May 1829, the following petition, with the
documents therein referred to, was presented by the appellants
to the district court of the United States for the district of

Missouri.
"To the honourable the district court of the United States
for the district of Missouri.
"The petition of Auguste A. Chouteau, Gabriel Cer6 Chouteau, Henry Chouteau, Edward Cbouteau, Eulalie Paul and

Ren6 Paul, husband of said Eulalie, Louise Paul and Gabriel
Paul, husband of said Louise, Emilie Smith and Thomas F
Smith, husband of said Emilie, respectfully showeth, that in
the year 1799, Auguste A. Chouteau, deceased, late of St

Louis, the father of your petitioners, applied to and obtained
permission from the government then existing in upper Louisiana, to establish a distillery in or near the town of St Louis,
as will more fully appear -by the petition and order thereon,
dated the 5th of November 1799, and 3d of January 1800,
VOL. IX.-S

SUPREME COURT.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.)

which are herewith shown to the court and prayed to be taken
as part of this petition, marked No. 1, that on the 5th day of
January 1800, said Auguste Chouteau presented his petition
of that date to the lieutenant governor of the province of upper
Louisiana, praying that a tract of land containing twelve
hundred and eighty-one arpents, superficial measure of Paris,
situated near the town of St Louis, bounded on the north by
a tract granted to Doctor John Watkins, on the south and on
the west by the lands of the third line of concessions, should be
granted to the said Auguste Chouteau and his heirs, for the
purpose of enabling said Auguste Choutean to obtain a sufficient supply of fire wood for the distillery aforesaid, that on
the same day, to wit, the 5th of January 18.00, the said lieutenant governor made his decree conformably to the prayer of
said petition, whereby said lieutenant governor directed and
ordered that the surveyor of the said province, Don Antonio
Soulard, should put the said Auguste Chouteau in possession
of the said tract of twelve hundred and eighty-one arpents, in
the place indicated and demanded, to the end that said Auguste
Chouteau might afterwards obtain the complete title thereto
from the governor-general, all which will appear by said petition and decree, now here produced, marked No. 2, and which
petition and decree is prayed to be taken as part of this petition, that afterwards, in obedience to said decree, to wit, on
the 5th day of March 1801, the said surveyor, Don Antonio
Soulard, delivered the possession of said tract to said Auguste,
and executed a survey and plat of survey thereof, as will more
fully appear by the said plat and certificate of survey, bearing
date the 10th of April 1801, now here produced, marked No.
3, and which said plat and certificate were recorded in book
A, p. 43, No. 82, in the office of said surveyor, as by reference
to the said certificate and to said record in the office of the surveyor of this district will appear; that said decrees so made by
said lieutenant governor, were made in pursuance of the special
instruction given by the governor-general of Louisiana, Don
Manuel Gayoso De Lemos, to said lieutenant governor, to
favour and forward the aforesaid undertakings of said Auguste
Chouteau, as will appear by the letter of said governor-general,
addressed to said Auguste Chouteau, under date the 20th of
May 1799, in answer to an application made by said Auguste

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

Chouteau to said governor-general, as will appear by reference
to said original letter herewith exhibited, marked No. 4, and
prayed to be taken as part of this petition, that, by virtue of
said decrees, survey, and delivery of possession, said Auguste
occupied and enjoyed said tract, so granted, as the lawful proprietor thereof, from the date of said delivery of possession until
the decease of said Auguste Chouteau, that said Auguste,
during his life, did, in conformity to the acts of congress in that
case made and provided, submit his claim to said tract, derived
as aforesaid, to the board of commissioners heretofore created
for the settlement and adjudication of French and Spanish land
claims in upper Louisiana, that said board rejected said claim
on the sole ground that a tract of a league square having been
already confirmed to said Auguste Chouteau, the board had
not power under the law, as it then stood, to confirm to said
Chouteau any greater quantity, and your petitioners show
that said board, for the purpose, as it is supposed, of testifying
their sense of the merits of said claim, did cause to be indorsed
on the back of a document therein exhibited to them, the words
' bona fide,' as will appear, reference being had to said document No. 2, herein before mentioned, your petitioners further
show, that said Auguste Chouteau has departed this life, and
that previous to his death he made his last will and testament,
in due form of law, whereby he devised to your petitioners the
said tract of twelve hundred and eighty-one arpents, besides
other property, to your petitioners and their heirs, as tenants m
common. Wherefore your petitioners pray that said title may
be inquired into, and that the same be confirmed, as the same
would have been confirmed had not the sovereignty of said province been transferred to the United States.
(Translation.) No. 1. 11 To Mr Charles Dehault Delassus,
lieutenant colonel, attached to the regiment of Louisiana, and
lieutenant governor of the upper part of same province, &c.
"Auguste Chouteau has the honour to expose, that he
wishes to establish, in this town, a manufacture proper to
distil the several kinds of grains raised in this dependency, (to)
supply the wants of the consumption of the place, of which remote distance to the chief city renders the importation too e.y-

SUPREME COURT.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States ]

pensive to draw from it annually what is necessary for its use.
Wherefore, sir, the supplicant, previous to subjecting himself
to considerable expenses to form such an establishment, wishes
to obtain the honour of your consent, in order that hereafter
he may not be subject to any alteration hurtful to his interests; wherefore the supplicant will acknowledge your goodness, if you grant his request.
1AAUGUSTE CHOUTEAU.
"St Louis of Illinois, November 5th 1799.
"St Louis of Illinois, January 3d, 1800.
"Considering that the establishment which the supplicant
proposes to form will be useful to the public and to commerce,
because there does not exist any of this nature, and that he
will procure liquors in a greater abundance, and at a less price
than those which are imported, and in very little quantity,
from New Orleans, we grant the request.
" CHARLES DEHAULT DELASSUS, [L. S.].

(Translation.) No. 2. "To Mr Charles Dehault Delassus,
lieutenant colonel, attached to the fixed regiment of Louisiana,
and lieutenant governor of the upper part of said province.
"Auguste Chouteau, merchant, of this town, has the honour to represent, that the lands adjacent to this town being
mostly conceded, and timber becoming daily very scarce, he
is very much embarrassed in the carrying on of the considerable distillery which you have permitted him to establish by
your decree, dated 5th of November of last year; consequently,
he hopes you will be pleased to assist him in his views, and
have the goodness to grant him the concession of one thousand two hundred and eighty-one superficial arpents of this
land, situated on the fourth concession in depth of the land
adjoining this town, bounded north by the land of Dr John
Watkins; south and west, by the lands of the third concession.
The supplicant, besides having the intention to establish the
said lands, hopes to obtain of your justice the favour which
he solicits.
"AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU.

"St Louis, January 5th 1800.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

St Louis of Illinois, January 5th 1800.
Being satisfied that the supplicant has sufficient means to
make available, in the term of the regulation of the governorgeneral of this province, the lands which he demands, the
surveyor of this upper Louisiana, Mr Anthony Soulard, will
put him in possession of the one thousand two hundred and
eighty-one arpents of land in the place where he asks it, and
afterwards the applicant will have to solicit the formal title of
concessions of the intendant-general of these provinces, to
whom belongs, by order of his M-, the disposing and conceding every kind of vacant lands of the royal domains.
" CHARLES DEHAULT DELASSUS."

No. 3. The survey of the land was made by Antonio Soulard, principal deputy surveyor of Upper Louisiana, on the 5th
day of March, and certified on the 10th of April 1801.
"New Orleans, May 20th 1799.
(Translation.) No. 4. "Mydearfriend Wishing to testify
to you my esteem, by every opportunity, I merely assure you
of my esteem, promising you to answer your letter by the boat
that just arrived, and which will leave here next week.
"In my instructions to Mr Delassus, I recommend him particularly to favour all your undertakings, &c. &c.
"Adieu
I am in such a hurry that I have but the time
to tell you that I am your sincere friend and most humble
servant,
"MANUEL GA&YOSO DE LEAIos."
The district attorney of the United States filed an answer to
the petition, denying the claim of the petitioners, and requiring
proof of the same.
At the January session of the district court in the year 1830,
a decree was entered against the validity of the title and claim
of the petitioners.
From this decree the petitioners prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr White, for the appellants, and
by the Attorney-General, for the United States.

SUPREME COURT.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

For the appellants, it was contended
1. That the title presented is a valid Spanish grant, made in
conformity to the laws, customs and usages of the Spanish
government.
2. That the said title was confirmed by the treaty of cession
of Louisiana.
3. That the petitioners are entitled to a decree of confirmation by said treaty, and the proceedings under the same.
Mr Butler, attorney-general, argued
1. The decrees of the lieutenant governors, relied on by the
petitioners, were made in contravention of the laws, ordinances
and regulations in force at the times when they respectively
bear date, and which continued in force until the treaty of cession, and were therefore wholly void, and being so, no valid
claim under the treaty or the acts of congress can be founded
thereon.
2. The petitioners did not show in either case a title by
prescription.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Auguste A. Chouteau and others, devisees of Auguste Chouteau, presented their petition to the court of the United States
for the district of Missouri, praying that their title to one
thousand two hundred and eighty-one arpents of land, near the
town of St Louis, in the state of Missouri, which they claim
under the following circumstances, be confirmed.
The late Auguste Chouteau applied to the then existing
governor of upper Louisiana for permission to establish a distillery in or near the town of St Louis, which permission was
granted on the 3d of January 1800.
He then petitioned for a concession for one thousand two
hundred and eighty-one superficial arpents of land, to furnish
fire wood for his distillery, which was granted in the followin g
words.
"St Louis of Illinois, January 5th 1800.
"Being satisfied that the applicant has sufficient means to
make available in the term of the regulation of this province

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

the landg which he demands, the surveyor of this upper Louisiana, Mr Anthony Soulard, will put him in possession of the
one thousand two hundred and eighty-one arpents of land in
the place where he asks it, and afterwards the applicant will
have to solicit the formal title of concessions of the intendantgeneral of these provinces, to whom belongs, by order of his
M-, the disposing and conceding every kind of vacant lands
of the royal domains.
" CHARLES DEHAULT DELASSUS."

The permission of the governor-general to erect the distillery
is alluded to in the following letter from him to Mr Delassus.
"New Orleans, May 20th 1799.
"My dear friend Wishing to testify to you my esteem by
every opportunity, I merely assure you of my esteem, promising to answer your letter by the b~at that just arrived, and
winch will leave here next week.
"In my instructions to Mr Delassus, I recommend him particularly to favour all your undertakings, &c. &c.
"Adieu I am in such a hurry that I have but the time to
tell you that I am your sincere friend and mosthumble servant,
" MANUEL GAyoso DE LE ios."

The order of survey was executed on the 10th of April 1801,
and the petitioner put into possession, which he retained till his
death, having first made his last will, in which he devised it to
the petitioners, who have taken all the steps required by law,
to preserve their claim.
The petition prays for a confirmation of the title. The answer of the district attorney admits nothing, and submits the
case to the court on the proof to be made by the petitioners.
The erection of the distillery, and the manufacture of spirits to
a considerable extent, the apparent motives to the grant, are
fully proved.
The distinction between the case of Chouteau and others, and
that of Delassus, whose title has been confirmed, consists in
this. The concession to Delassus was made by the lieutenant
governor of upper Louisiana by direction of the governor-general, at a time when the power of granting land was vested in

SUPREME COURT.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

the governors of provinces. This power was transferred to the
intendant-general in 1799, after which transfer in 1800, the
order of survey under which Chouteau claimed, was made by
the lieutenant governor. The validity of the order depends on
the authority of the lieutenant governor to make it. Chouteau
alleges in support of this authority, that the lieutenant-governor was also sub-delegate, in which character he was empowered to grant incomplete titles.
Several documents have been laid before the court which
satisfy us that the lieutenant governors were, by virtue of their
office, sub-delegates. In the record in Soulard's case, which
we understand is to be considered as an exhibit in this, a letter
from the lieutenant governor Delassus to the surveyor-general
is introduced, in which he recites a, letter of Morales, the intendant-general, to him, datedfthe 1st of December 1802,
informing him that in consequence of the death of the assessor
he had closed the tribunal of affairs and causes relating to
grants and confirmations of royal lands. The letter adds "I
make this communication in order that, apprised of this providence, you may not receive, frame or transmit memorials soliciting lands until farther orders."
In a letter of the 26th of August 1799, addressed by Morales
to Don Carlos Dehault Delassus, in which he notices instructions given by Delassus to Roberto M'Kay, in his character of
sub-delegate, he observes, "I must say, that it being contrary
to law that one sub-delegate should transfer his powers to another, the instruction given by you cannot, nor ought to have
effect, and the more so, as the sub-delegation of the intendancy is local."
In a certificate given by Don Gilberto Leonard, treasurer of
the army, and Don Manuel Gonzalez Armirez, ministers of the
royal treasury, &c. of the province of Louisiana, they certify
that in pursuance of a decree of the senior intendant-general
ad interim, the senior colonel Charles Dehault Delassus, formerly commandant of the port of New Madrid, and lieutenant
governor of St Louis of the Illinois, with the sub-delegation of
the royal treasury in both situations, &c.
In the claims laid before the commissioners, and confirmed,
are several which originated with Delassus after the power of
granting lands was transferred from the governor to the inten-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

dant-general. This very order of survey was executed by the
surveyor-general in 1801. Possession was delivered to Chouteau which was retained by him during his life, and appears to
have remained with his devisees since his death.
On this point the report made by the recorder and commissioners to congress under the act of the 9th of July 1832, and
the 2d of March 1833, cannot be disregarded. They speak of
the union of the two offices of lieutenant governor and subdelegate, as being universally understood and admitted.
Charles Dehault Delassus, lieutenant governor of upper
Louisiana, whose deposition appears to be annexed to the report
of the commissioners, deposes, "that all the lieutenant governors of upper Louisiana were, in virtue of their offices as lieutenant governors, likewise sub-delegates. That the offices of
lieutenant governor and sub-delegate were inseparable." Morales, immediately after the sale of the royal lands had been
transferred to his intendancy, assigns as one reason for issuing
his regulations, "that the commandants, as sub-delegates of the
intendancy, may be informed of what they ought to observe."
If, as we think must be admitted, Delassus was sub-delegate
as well as lieutenant governor, the transfer of the power of
granting lands belonging to the royal domain from the governor to the intendant-general, did not affect his power to give
the order of survey on which the title of the petitioners depends.
That order is the foundation of title, and is, according to the
acts of congress and the general understanding and usage of
Louisiana and Missouri, capable of being perfected into a
complete title. It is property capable of being alienated, of
being subjected to debts, and is as such to be held as sacred
and inviolate as other property.
The power of lieutenant governor Delassus in his character
of sub-delegate to make this order of survey being established,
all the principles settled in the preceding cases apply to this.
No objection to the claim is perceived, and we think it ought
to have been declared valid.
The decree of the district court is reversed and annulled,
and this court, proceeding to give such decree as the district
court ought to have given, doth declare the claim of the petitioners to the tract of land in their petition mentioned tobe valid,
and doth confirm their title to the same according to the bounVOL. IX.-T

146

SUPREME COURT.
[Chouteati's Heirs v. The United States.]

daries thereof, as described in the survey made 1y Antonio
Soulard, principal deputy surveyor of upper Louisiana on the
5th day of March 1801, a certificate of which appears in the
record dated the 10th day of April 1801.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcnpt of the
record from the district court of the United States for the district of Missouri, and was argued by counsel, on consideration
whereof, this court is of opinion that the claim of the appellants is valid and ought to be confirmed. Whereupon, it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said district court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed and annulled, and this court, proceeding to
pronounce such decree as the said district court ought to have
given, doth declare the claim of the petitioners to be valid, and
doth confirm their title to the tract of land in their petition
mentioned, according to the boundaries thereof as described in
the survey made by Antonio Soulard, principal deputy surveyor
of upper Louisiana, on the 5th day of March 1801, a certificate
of which appears in the record dated the 10th day of April 1801.

