APPENDIX

I.

Arguments of 31r WHITE, zn the case of CHARLES DEHAULT DESee page 127, ante.

LASSUS, APPELLANT V. THE UNITED STATES.

MR WHITE, for the appellant, submitted the following points.
1st. That this is a valid Spanish concession, made in obedience to the orders
of the superior officers of the crown of Spain, and in conformity with the laws
of Spain.
2d. That it is a claim protected by the treaty, and entitled to confirmation
under the treaty and laws of the United States.
This was a petition in equity, presented under the act of 1824, authorizing
claimants to lands under French and Spanish titles in Missouri, to institute proceedings to try the validity of their titles, The decision of the court below, was
against the title of the appellant here, who was the petitioner in that court.
The grounds upon which the title was rejected need not be stated, further than
the recitation in the judge's opinion and decree, which appears to be a formula,
reduced to words applicable to, and employed in every case presented to him.
The claim of the appellants, like all the rest, is rejected because it is not made
in conformity to the ordinance transferring the jurisdiction and power of conceding
and distributing lands, and the regulations made under it, in 179S and 1799, to
the intendencia of the province of Louisiana. The title of the petitioner originated in the year 1795 , and it is not assuredly a valid objection to it that it was
not made by an authority created in 1798, and according to forms prescribed for
the grant and concession of lands in 1799.
The royal order of 1798, and the regulations of the intendant Morales, published
on the 17th of July 1799, have no application whatever to this case, and need
not be further considered in the argument or decision of it.
The rules and principles by which all the cases depending in this court, from
Missouri, under the act of 1824, are to be decided, will be found in the first and
second sections of that act. Clarke's Land Laws 871.
1. The laws of nations.
2. The stipulations of a treaty.
3. The proceedings under the treaty.
4. The laws and ordinances of France or Spain.
In regard to the first the law of nations, it has been considered in the case of
Arredondo, Percheman and Clarke, under a similar law, and the principle has

766

APPENDIX.

been established; that it is a universal principle recognized and acknowledged by
all civilized states, that the property of the inhabitants of a conquered or ceded
province is not affected by the change of sovereignty or dominion , and that
the law of nations, as applied to the interpretation of treaties in favour of individuals, is to be classed among things favourable, and therefore literally expounded.
The stipulations of the treaty refer only to the second article of the cession of
Louisiana, in which, pro forma, private property is reserved in the general transfer
of the sovereignty, dominion and public domain of the government making the
cession.
Property has been defined by this court to be every species of title legal and
equitable, perfect and inchoate, existing at the time of the treaty.
It will not be contended that the title, under which the petitioner claims in
this case, is a full and complete grant; but it will be contended that it was held
at the time of the transfer to the iTnited States, by an equitable title, which constituted in the petitioner a right of property, protected by the laws of nations and
the treaty, which night have been consummated by complete grant; and ought
to be confirmed.
The proceedings under the treaty, and the several acts of congress in relation
to the same, mean nothing more than the legislative construction of congress
upon that instrument; and the principles settled in the establishment of other
claims of a similar character.
The laws and ordinances of Spain are perhaps the most difficult to be ascertained of the several rules by which this court is to be guided, in its decision of
these questions. The laws of all foreign countries are in a great measure inaccessible to, and difficult to be comprehended by the courts of any other country.
They consist of positive enactments, proclamations, letters of instruction, customs and usages, which often differ in the different provinces of the same
country.
In absolute governments, where the will of the prince is the law, it is still
more difficult; and though power always loves to consider itself infallible, it is
too often exhibited in the inconsistences of caprice, and the wantonness ofarbitrary
authority.
In this particular case, however, passing over the presumption arising from the
act of a foreign officer, that it is to be considered legitimate, and not a usurpation,
which imnoses on the appellee the obligation of showing the want of authority
in the granting officer; it is easy to show, in this particular case, that he was
vested with competent power to make the cession in question. To explain the
condition of that district of country, known formerly as Louisiana, and now embracing two states and one territory, will requiro a brief historical view of them,
prior to 1803.
By the secret treaty of 1762, between France and Spain, all the territory west
of the Mississippi river, including the island of New Orleans, was ceded to Spain,
and designated as the colony of Louisiana, which cession was confirmed in the
definitive treaty of 1763. Spain did not signify her acceptance of this province
until 1764. In the year following (1765), Don Antonio de Ulloa was appointed
governor-general, and his instructions from the council of the Indies, were to
continue the laws in force in the province, which were then the laws of France.
The colonists resisted the establishment of the Spanish authority; and on the
29th of October 1768, lieutenant general O'Reilly was commissioned by the king
to proceed to the province to suppress the insurrection, punish the rebels, and to
organize the government. This lieutenant general took possession of the province, visited various ports and commandancies, established Don Louis de Up-

APPENDIX.
zaga in the government, and returned to Spain. Lieutenant general O'Reilly,
upon his return to Sain Ildefonso, was directed to submit to the council of the
Indies his plans of government for the .province and on the 18th of February
1770, he drew up some regulations for the concession of lands, which were approved by the king on the 24th of March 1770. The first six articles of these
instructions are confined to lower Louisiana. The eighth and ninth to Opelousas
and Attacapas. The ninth contemplates a larger grant than of a league square.
As to the quantity under that, there, can be no question. It is doubtful whether
these instructions extended to St Louis of Illinois, now Missouri. To the decision of this case they are immaterial. The first six articles being confined to the
Mississippi, it follows that the power to grant to the same extent in Illinois existed, as that in Opelousas; and this claim being within the limit, is a valid
order of survey or concession.
The royal order of the 28th of January 1771, incorporates Louisiana into the
king's dominions on a footing with his other transatlantic possessions, and adopts
the laws of the Indies. These laws, upon the principle that leges posteriores,
priores abrogant, control so much of O'Reilly's regulations as are inconsistent
with them, being subsequent in date to the royal cedula which gave these regulations the force of law.
Lieutenant general O'Reilly (rew up five sets of instructions for thb government
of Louisiana, as appears from a report of the council of the Indies, dated 27th
February 1772; in which report they were recommended for the royal approbation,
and were approved by a cedula of the king, on the 23d of March 1772. The
commission of the governor and captain-general Galvez in 1779, refers to a cedula
approving of one of O'Reilly's regulations, on the 21st of July 1776; from which
it would appear that all of the plans projected by lieutenant general O'Reilly,
were not approved until 1776.
There is a slight error in the translation of a royal order in White's Compilation
152, referring to three sets of instructions for the government of St Louis de li.
nois. The word las has b -en mistaken for ires, and itshould be read the instructions instead of three instructions. This is shown by a correct copy recently
obtained from Spain.
It may be important in other cases to inquire whether these instructions for
Illinois are the same as those of 1770 in other cases, and, whether those for
upper Louisiana were not more liberal: but in this case it is unnecessary. The
effect too of the introduction of the laws of the Indies in 1772, and the ordinance
of 1786 upon grants as gratuities, and for services, will be more properly cdnsidered when such cases are on trial.
The commissions of Galvez and Miro show that the offices of governor and
intendant were united in the same officer. They were divided at the instance of
the Baron De Carondelet. The power of conceding lands was vested in the civil
and military governors until 1798, when it was transferred to the intendant. The
lieutenant governor of St Louis de Illinois, after 1798, stood in the same relation
to the intendant as subdelegate, as he had previously done to the governor-general as deputy.
Whether this title is to be considered under the general laws of Spain, with the
presumption arising from the concession or not, or whether it be considered
under O'Reilly's instructions ; being proved to be genuine, it must be confirmed.
Cited in argument-Ordinance of 1754, Ordinance of 1786, Leyes de Espana,
fit. Residencia; Ordinance directing Reportof deputy governors; Laws Indies,
White's Coin. 57, 58, 35; Royal order for delivery of Louisiana, White's Coin.
162; Treaty for cession of Louisiana, White's Coin. 16S.

768

APPENDIX.

in reply.
The attorney-general admits that this is a genuine order or survey, dated in
1795, and that there is no evidence to impeach its date, or that the act, such as
it purports to be, was duly executed at the date specified. He insists that the
lieutenant-governor of upper Louisiana, or St Louis of Illinois was subordinate
to the governor-general of Louisiana. It is admitted, on the part of the appellant,
that he was subordinate to the governor-general, but non constat, that he had
not authority to make the order of survey and concession. The governor-general himself (as all the transatlantic authorities were) was subordinate to the king,
and it might, with equal propriety be contended, that no grant was good unless
it emanated from the crown. Such a position, if maintained, would vitiate every
title in upper or lower Louisiana.
He admits that an order of survey and possession under it constitutes property;
and as property is protected by the treaty, it must be conceded that the claim
of the appellant is embraced by the treaty, and entitled to confirmation.
The distinction attempted to be drawn between incomplete titles and imperfect ones, or between full grants and inchoate titles, has been considered and rejected by this court.
The correct principle of decision by the American government of Spanish titles,must be a recognition of perfect, and a completion of imperfect titles; as they
would have been consummated by the former government, if the sovereignty had
not been transferred to the United States.
It cannot be denied that the governor-general would have approved and confirmed this concession. The United States, taking the place of Spain, are bound
in the same manner to ratify and confirm it, and that duty has been assigned by
congress to this court.
It has been shown, that in all similar cases where applications were made to
the governor-general, that he invariably gave a title in form, or confirmatory
grant. He could not refuse, because, by the ordinance of 1786, the deputy governors were subjected to the residencia , which was the account given to the
council of the Indies of the administration of their governments.
They were required, equally with the governors, to make a regular report of
their proceedings , and if the governor.general refused his approval, the party
was entitled to his appeal. There is no instance in which such a confirmation
was ever refused.
There was no law of Spain which forbade the concession of a lead mine, and
the act of congress which interdicted the confirmation of such a title, was in violation of the treaty and of the constitution.
Cited, various documents, commissions and cedulas recently received from
Seville, in Spain, certified by the American minister.
MR WuHzT,

APPENDIX.

Argument of Mr WHITE, 2 the cases of CHOUTEAU'S
UNITED STATES.

769

HEIRS V. THE

Reported ante, pages 137 and 147.

AIR WHITE, for appellants.
These two cases will be considered together. The one is a grant for a league
square in 1798, before the transfer of the jurisdiction of petitions and claims to
land from the military and civil government to the interidencia, and the other
subsequent thereto, to the ancestor of the petitioners. They were rejected on
the grounds stated in the case of Delassus. There is one additional objection to
these claims. It is, that Auguste Chouteau had obtained another concession
which was sold to Daniel Clarke, and confirmed to him. There is nothing an
the laws of the Indies, nor in the regulations of O'Reilly, nor the ordinance of
1754 and 1786, which forbids more than one concession to an individual. He
was entitled to a concession for a cowpen, to one for agriculture, and one for
any useful invention, as was shown in Clarke's case. Whether Auguste Chouteau
was entitled to another concession, however, before or after his sale to Daniel
Clarke, was a question exclusively for the Spanish authority. It is proved that
the second concession was made. The fact of its having been made by an agent
of the crown whose duty it was to receive such applications, and to adjudicate
such questions without appeal or reversal, whilst the province remained under
the dominio of Spain, constituted what we call a res adjudicata, so far as the
American government is concerned.
The other claim granted to furnish wood for a distillery, was made by the
lieutenant governor as subdelegate of the intendant. It is not forbidden by the
general laws of Spain, nor by the regulations of Morales. These latter regulations, it has been shown by documents recently received from Spain, were not
approved by the crown. They never had the force of law, and were mere regulations of police, promulgated for a guide to commandants of posts ; but changed
whenever circumstances required. One of these grants is for agriculture, and
another for a manufacturing establishment of an article much in demand in the
western country. The governor-general, in a letter to be found in the record,
testified his great regard for the petitioner, and his desire to serve him, and to
promote his objects.
The grants and concessions for services and gratuities, stand upon a different
principle; which, although founded upon an authority as certain and unequivocal
as these, ivill not be discussed here, as neither of these are liable to the objections
taken to others rejected by the district court of Missouri.
Referred to, Ordinance of 1798, Laws of Indies; Novissima Recopolacion, tit.
Prescript. Partid., tit. Prescription; Depositions in Commissioner's Report;
Depositions on South America; Certified Documents from Spain.

VOL. ix.-4 w

APPENDIX

II

IN THE MATTER OP POOLE AND WIFE

[On a motion for leave to file

AND JONES, PETITIONERS

f

versus
HNRY NIXON AND JOHN AsPDEN.

a Bill of Resvew.

I

Opson of the Circuit.Court of the United States for the Eastern
Distrzct of Pennsylvanza, delivered by Mfr Justice BALDwIN at October

Term 1834.(a)
To the April term of this court in 1828, a suit in equity was brought by Samuel
Packer against Henry Nixon,executor of the last will of Matthias Aspdeo, to recover the balance of the estate remaining in his bands unadmimstered, in the progress of the suit, otherparties were added as complainants, among whomwasJohn
Aspden of Lancashire, England. He claimed as heir at law to the testator, by
descent from William Aspden, whom he alleged to be the eldest uncle of the
testator. On a reference to the master, be reported the said John Aspden to be
the heiratlaw; which report, on exceptions taken, was confirmed by this court in
May 1832. In December 1833 the cause came on to a final hearing, when a
final decree was pronounced in favour of John Aspden, and the bill was dimissed as to all the other complainants; from this decree an appeal was taken to the
supreme court at January term last, which is now depending.
On the 17th June last, Jennet Jones, and Thomas Poole and Mary his wife,
filed their petition, setting forth that the said Jennet and Mary are the heirs at
law of the testator, by lineal descent from John Aspden, the eldest uncle of the
testator, and as such pray to be made parties to the original suit. They also ask
leave to file their supplemental bill, and bill of review to reverse the decree so
far as declares John Aspden of Lancashire to be the heir at law of the testator
and directs the executor to pay him the balance of the estate.
This is an application to the discretion of the court to allow an amendment,
introducing new parties and new matter into a suit closed by a final decree on
its merits , and if the amendment is allowed, to revise and reconsider the decree
as it may be affected by evidence offered by the new parties. If the amendment is refused, the petitioners are precluded from the benefit of a bill of
review, however much the decree may affect his rights; on the other hand,
if it is once allowed, the respondents must plead, demur or answer to the new
(a) See ante, page 492.

APPENDIX.

771

matter as if it was set out in an original bill, (5 Mason 309, 1 Vern. 418, Mit.
236; 2 Mad. 543) or disprove it (Beames 314).
The preliminary question whether the bill shall be filed, is therefore an important one in all cases, and in some the only one; for the new matter may be of
the most conclusive effect, if once it is introduced into tile cause, and its truth
admitted or made out in proof. In this case it is especially important to examine
it in all its bearings, as well from the novelty of such applications in the courts
of the United States, as the peculiar situation of the parties, and the cause
which it is sought by the bill now offered to review and re-examine on its
merits; and as they involve principles highly interesting to suitors, the profession
and'the public, without taking into consideration the magnitude of the sum in
controversy.
Bills of review in cdurts of equity are an anomaly in the system of jurisprudence which prevails in England and this country ; no principle is better
settled or of more universal application, than that no court can reverse or annul
its own decrees or judgments for errors in law or fact, after the term in which
they are rendered, unless they have been entered by mistake of the clerk.
(2 Wash. 433, 12 Wheat. 10; 3 WheAt. 591.) The supreme court of the
United States cannot reverse its own decisions (1 Wheat. 355); they are conclusive on the rights of the parties (S. P. 6 Wheat. 387) , and so are the judgments of inferior courts while they remain unreversed. Courts of common law
can reverse their judgments only in one case. A writ of error coram nobis lies
on an error in fact; but for an error in law they cannot reverse their own proceedings, nor can they grant a new trial on newly discovered evidence afterfinal
judgment. A court of equity cannot reverse their decree, or rehear the cause
after a final decree enrolled, till then it is open for both purposes ; but after that
is done it is as a final judgment at law. Such was the rule in equity as late as
the 15Jac. 1, when a bill of review for new matter was refused. (Carey's Rep. 20.)
The law considers the record of a cause to be in the breast of the judges while the
court is in session, they may alter or amend any entry of their proceedings
during the term. but when they have made a record of their acts and the term
is closed, they become adjudicated matters, which give to the parties rights that
cannot be taken from them, otherwise than by the powers of an appellate court.
Judgments at common law are reviewed on writ of error as to matters of law,
on matters of fact they cannot be revised by the court of error; this is not only
a rule of the common law, but an express provision of the twenty-second section
of the judiciary act, and of the seventh amendment of the constitution.
The question before the appellate court is, was the judgment correct, not the
grounds on which the judgment professed to proceed. (6 Wheat. 603, 4 Dow's
P C. 143.)
Final decrees in equity may be examined on appeal, both as to matters of law
and fact, 'tie appellate court gives such a decree as the circuit court ought to
have given on the whole case. (Jud. Act, sect. 24.)
But bills of review differ from writs of error and appeals, the former being by
the court which renders the decree, the latter by a superior tribunal.
Under an appellate authority, conferred by statute or sanctioned by usage, defining the cases in which it can be exercised, if no power is, given to any court
to revise the proceedings of another; they become final and conclusive as to all
matters adjudicated by them, whether in law, equity or admiralty.
No act of parliament has given to any court, the power of taking cognizance of
appeals from courts of equity, and none had assumed it before 1620, 1621, Up
to the 13th Jac. 1, there was no precedent of even a prohibition to a court of
equity in a county palatine. (1 Roll. Rep. 246, 331.) The first that issued was

772

APPENDIX.

during the protectorate, in 1651. (1 Roll. Ab. 318.) Nor to the stannary court
in the duchy of Cornwall an appeal lay only to the prince of Wales, and if
there was no prince, then to the king in council. (1 Roll. Rep. 246, 3 Bulst. 116.
About this time the court of king's bench claimed the power of issuing writs of
prohibition to the chancellor ; to prevent him from making a decree in matters
cognizable at common law, or from interfering with the judgments of the courts of
common law, for which Lord Coke gave this reason. "That the rules and
judgments of courts of equity are as binding as the laws of the Medes and Persians, not to be altered, upon which no writ of error lies ; they therefore ought
to be prohibited before judgment, or the party has no rem'edy" (2 Bulst. 197,
215, Cro. Jac. 335, 336), except by petition to the king (3 Bulst. 118), who
might refer the matter to the judges, to reverse the decree if they should think it
ought to be. (4 Inst. 85, 86, 42, 43 Bliz., 3 Bulst. 118.)
The reason of applying to the king was, that the chancellor was his representative sitting and judging in his name, and by his authority- his decrees were the
decrees of the king, not to be altered without his leave. (Gilb. For. Rem. 185,
183.)
The assertion by the king's bench, of the right to grant prohibitions to the
chancellor, led to a controversy which brought Lord Coke to his knees before
the king in council, and it was determined, after a reference by the king to Lord
Bacon and others, by a declaration of the king, that he had the sole power of
deciding of the jurisdiction of the several courts, and ordered that "the report
made to him, with his proceedings thereon, should be enrolled in chancery, there
to remain of record, for the better extinguishing of the like differences and questions that may arise in future times." (1 Ch. Rep. App. 1-50 , Carey 181,182, A.
D. 1616.)
From this time there was no power in any court to revise the decrees of the
chancellor (I C. C. 44, 45), until Lord Bacon made an order on the subject of
bills of review by the chancellor himself, but there was no appeal from his decision on a bill of review, or any other subject, until the house of lords, in 1620,
16 21t sustained an appeal from a decree of Lord Bacon. (3 Journal of the House
of Lords 50, 61, 62, 63, 67, 76, 78.) This was held by the commons to be a
novelty, and was resisted from time to time up to 1704. (3 13. Com. 454,
1 vol. Deb. House of Commons 210, 240; 3 vol. 302, 308.) Since which time
it has been at rest: "it has been submitted to, because it has been thought too
much, that the chancellor should bind all the-property in the kingdom without
appeal (Gilb. F R. 190, 191), and it is reasonable to have the examination of
their sentences in the parliament, as well as of judgments at common law. (She.
P. C. 81.)
The cognizance of bills of review rests entirely on the order of Lord Bacon
but as it has been acquiesced in, and acted on from the time of its adoption, it
forms a part of the law of equity which has been adopted by the constitution of
the United States, as applicable to all cases in equity within the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States. (3 Peters 446.) This order is to be
considered as an act of parliament or of congress, conferring on courts of equity
a new' power, whuch must be exercised conformably to its provisions, and being
in derogation of 1he principles of the common law, must be construed strictly, so
as to confine its application to the specified cases. When such a case arises as
is proper for a bill of review, the final decree of the court of equity becomes the
subject of appeal to the supreme court, in the same manner as a decree on an
original bill, but no appeal lies upon anyorder or interlocutory decree; it is confined to those decrees which decide finally on the rights of the parties before the
court. (Jud. Act, sect. 22.)

APPENDIX.
The present application is for'an order to amend the proceedings in the original suit, the refusal or making of which is a proper ground for appeal in England (3 Aik. 34, 4 B. P C. 465, 486, Gilb. F R. 188, 189); but not here, because
it is not a final decree, and because it is a matter purely in the discretion of the
court, with which the supreme court do not interfere in ordinary cases on questions of amendment. (5 Cr. 15; 9 Wheat. 576, 11 Wheat. 302.) The same
rule applies to that part of the petition, which prays to have the decree opened
for revision on the new matter alleged, being in the notion of an application to a
court of law for a new trial. (4 Wheat. 220 , 3 Peters 31, 32.) The supreme
court never give directions respecting amendments, but leave that question to the
court below. (6 Cr. 267.) They will reverse a decree for the want of proper parties; but in such case "remand the cause for further proceedings according to
law and justice." (3 Peters 204.)
Bills of review are not favoured in equity. If they are founded on the discovery
of new matter, the petitioner must make a deposit to cover the costs of the application (2 Atk. 139), and the bill must be filed with the' special leave of the,
court. (2 Atk. 139; Dick. 612, 614, 616 Mit. 71, 2 V 598, 1 J. C. 490,
491.) Though if the bill is filed without leave or deposit made, the court will
give leave to make it, and have it considered as made before the bill filed.
(Dick. 223.)
The party praying for the bill of review must perform the decree: if for money,
he must pay it, if to convey land, he must give up possession (Tot. Pre. Ch. 42;
2 Eq. Ca. Ab. 175, 176, pl.13, n.), but if the act decreed to be done, will extinguish the party-s right, its performance will be spared till the bill of review is
determined, but the sparing must be by the order of the court (Tot. 41-47,
2 Harr. Ch. 126; 1 Vern. 117, 264, Pr. Reg. 52; Bohun 382; Glib. F R. 185,
187 2 B. P C. 24, n. , 2 Freem. 88), orif the pharty is unable to perform the
decree, he must give good security or be committed (1 Ch. Ca. 42; Mit, 70;
2J. C. 491, -J. C. 128), unless lie is an executor, who may have a review
without performance. (2 Eq. Ca. Ab. 175, 12 Mod. 343.)
The reason of imposing these conditions is obvious ; " there is wisdom in the
establishment of such a provision and it ought to be duly enforced; the object is
to prevent abuse in the administration of justiqe by filing bills of review for delay and vexation, or otherwise protracting litigation to the discouragement and
distress of the adverse party." (2 3. C. 491.) These rules form a part of the law
of equity on bills of review in England; subject to which, they have been intro.
duced into the equity junsprudence of the United States.
The party must make a strong affidavit, (16 Ves. 349) that he had not any
Imowledge of the new matter set forth in his petition and bill of review, at the
time of the hearing, or when the original decree was given, that it has since
come to his knowledge, and that it could not have been produced or used then.
(Mit. 66, 2 P. W. 284, Pilb. F R. 187.) The words of lord Bacon's order are,
" which could not possibly have been use'd at the time of the decree passed,"
(Tot. 41, 42) which is adopted in the form of the affidavit (I Harr. 64, 76),
the most approved treatises, (PrReg. 51, 2 Harr. Ch. 123, 3 Bl. Com. 454),
and in judicial decisions of the highest authority, (3 J. C. 126; 2 J.C. 492; 2
B. P. C. 108 , Bohi. C. C. 381,1 Ves, 434, 3 Atk. 37.)
The affidavit must be by the party, and not the solicitor; (4 Vin. 415, 2 Eq.
Ca. Ab. 175,176, pl. 13), unless good reasons appear for the party not making it.
The court may hear counter affidavits, or other proof in opposition (5 Mason
308) to the affidavit of the party, to show that he had knowledge of the alleged
new matter before the decree, or that he has been negligent in searching.

774

APPENDIX.

(1 Yes. 435, Mit. 70, 3 3. C. 125; 2 B. P Ca. 25.) They require to be
satisfied, that the new matter waq not in the knowledge of the party, his solicitor or agent, (2 Atk. 534, Dick. 612, &c.) or country attorney (3 Atk. 35) ,
the knowledge of either being the knowledge of the party. (4 B. P C. 465,
486.) The party must have used active diligence (16 Ves. 351), or a reasonable
diligence to procure the evidence before the decree (2 Atk. 40; 23. C. 491).
If negligence is imputable to him, leave will not be granted. (1 C. C. 43, 4 Vin.
409, pl.18, Boh. C. C. 384, 2 Eq. Ca. Ab. 176, 2 B. P C.109, 110 ; Gilb. F
R. 187, 1 H. and M. 15.) Inattention or misjudgment is no excuse (1 Peters
C. C: 379) , as if the party had the paper in a trunk in his own possession, but
did not know of it in time (1 Peters 379) ; unless they had been in a distant
place, or the party had no reason to believe that they were in the trunk, &c. in
which they were found. (Gitb. F R. 187 189; 1 Ves. 435; 16 Yes. 354, 3
3. C. 127, 5 Mason 312.)
Soif there was enough in the knowledge of a party or his solicitor, to put
them on an inquiry; if by what was before him he was sufficiently apprised to
enable him to acquire complete knowledge, or enough appeared in the bill to call
upon a party using reasonable diligence to bring forward the whole case, he is
not allowed to file his bill. (16 Yes. 350, 354.) So if the paper discovered has
been found in the appropriate office, without any previous search, as in the case
of a vicar's bill for tithes, it is deemed negligence not to have searched in the
augmentation office. (4 Cond. Ch. 114, 115, Jacoo 243.)
It will not avail a party that he was prevented from offering the evidence, by
the advice of one of iis
counsel in the absence of the other. 3 Munf. 112, 115.
These rules show the caution with which the courts of equity act in the first
attempt to disturb an enrolled decree; they are much more iigid than i any other
case, showing that a bill of review, for newly discovered matter, is considered as
an extreme remedy for extreme cases, which public policy and peace alike require to be administered with extreme care, lest the sanctity of final decrees may
become of too easy or common violation.
'These too are cases in which the greatest danger exists if not of perjury, at
least of the most latitudinous oaths in the affidavits of interested parties; the
court must hear them in all cases, they must act in conformity to them if
they are full, clear and not contradicted; and when they have given leave to file
the bill, the new matter becomes incorporated into the proceedings in the original cause, as it is stated in the petition and bill of review.
Then the usual course is for the defendant in the bill of review to plead and
set forth the original decree, and thea demur to the new matter set up for opening the enrolment, the court then judge from the face of the decree whether the
new matter, as admitted by the demurrer, issufficient for its reversal. (Finch's
Rep. 36, 209 , 2 Atk. 534,3 Atk. 627, 1 Vern. 392, 4 H. and M. 24, 34.)
Or the defendant may take issue on the truth of the new matter set up, when
the court will open the publication to receive, and decide on the evidence offered;
if the facts, as alleged, are then established, the court review and revise the decree upon those facts. (5 Mason 308, 309.)
These reasons induce a court to examine particularly into all these preliminary
questions: not only to avoid interminable litigation; but doing injustice to a party
in whose favour their deliberate decree has been made, by suffering it to be
questioned on a suspicious appplieation, founded on alleged new matter, or when
that matter, as set forth, is not clearly relevant material, and would or migt have
led to a different result if it had been known and used at the hearing. (Mit. 66,

APPENDIX.

775

67, 1 Ves. 434, 2Ves. 600; 3 Aik. 35,36; 3 J. C. 127, 1 H. and M. 15
5 Mason 312.
Few cases can arise in any court, which call for more circumspection and
deliberation in their every step than this, the final decree complained of was not
rendered till the suit had been depending for more than five years, during which
every preliminary question was contested before the master and the court, whether it was of law or fact.
The case turned on two questions: 1. The construction of the will of Matthias
Aspden, the younger;and next on who washis heir at law. There were competent
parties before the court, who were entitled to the fund on any construction which
the court might put on the devise: an heir at law on the father's side, an heir
at law on the mother's side, and the next of kin to the testator in all the ramifications of genealogy ; all claiming from the executor, who was before the court,
with the fund in his hand, subject to their order.
The heir at law on, the father's side was identified in the person of John Aspden of Lancashire, England ; he appeared, was made a party, and no one contested
that character with him, the only controversy was as to his descent from the
common ancestor, Thomas Aspden, of Simonstone, by legitimate succession.
That fact was contested by the other parties before the master on the evidence
before him, on an exception to his report, founded on the insufficiency of the
evidence before him to prove the fact. The court deemed the evidence legally
sufficient, and confirmed the report in May 1832, from which time the question
was no longer agitated, the decree assumed the fact of heirship in the person of
the said John, and was founded upon it, as one not then in controversy; the only
question open after the confirmation of the master's report, being the construction
of the will.
It was not suggested to the court that there were parties in interest not before
them; it was evident that the fund was fully represented by some one of the
parties, for there was no character in which any one person could take under the
will, which was not completely filled by some of the claimants. It wasnot, therefore, a case in which the court could suspend their decree for the want of parties, or one which an appellate court could, on appeal, reverse, on that ground,
a decree in favour of either description of claimants. 7 Cranch 87, 98.
As the counsel of the petitioners have alluded to an expression of the court, in
giving their opinion on the master's report and in rendering the final decree, we
think it proper to observe, that on the question of heirship the evidence was not
so full or clear as it might have been , we gave our opinion upon it with some
misgivings as to 'the fact of William Aspden being the oldest brother of the testator's father. But then we had only to judge of its legal sufficiency, of which
we had not then, and have not now, a doubt that from the facts before the master
the legal conclusion was inevitable. What we said in reference to a future examination of that question was not intended, and could not be understood as
referring to any other revision than was usual in courts of equity, and consistent
with its rules, that is before a final decree was pronounced.
When, in delivering the opinion, we assumed" for the present," that John Aspden of Lancashire was the heir at law, it could not be intended that we would
allow a revision of that fact, after our power over the decree had terminated by an
adjournment. The obvious as well as intended meaning wfs, that up to the
time of a decree for final distibution, the question might be opened and in the
act of rendering that decree we did not consider it as finally closed, so long as by
the rules of law it could be kept open, that is during the term. On a proper case
being presented, new parties might have been introduced, the publication opened,
new evidence received, and the cause reheard on the question of heirship, or

776

APPENDIX.

ahy other matter proper for a rehearing; but, when the term had closed upon a
final decree on the merits between competent parties, ordering the payment of
the fund to a claimant, and dismissing the bill as to all others, it was too late for a
rehearing. There was no suit depending, no cause to rehear, no fact to decide,
no question of law to examine, every thing which had accrued in the cause had
becdme a res adjudicata, and unless for the purpose of appeal, there were no
parties in court, except the plaintiff John Aspden, and the executor, between
whom all past questions were finally adjudicated and no new ones could arise,
otherwise than on the execution of the decree.
It is then no case for rehearing, however clear may be the justice or abstract
right of the petitioners, had they asserted their claim within that time during
which the courthad power to decide upon it. In the intermediate time between
the pronouncing and enrolling the decree in England, or between the decree and
the rising of the court at the end of the term in this country, a supplemental
bill in the nature of a bill of review may be filed, making new parties, and introducing new matter as the ground of a prayer for a rehearing. (Mitf. 71, 2 Ves.
598, 2 J. C. 490, 2 Atk. 534; Dick. 612, 616 , 17 Ves. 177, 178, 2 Aik. 40.)
After the decree is enrolled, or the term elapsed in which it is given, new parties or new matter can be introduced by a bill of review, as a ground for a prayer
for revision and reversal of the decree. (17 Ves. 177, 5 Mason 310.)
The supplemental bill, in the nature of a bill of review, and the bill of review,
depend on the same rules as to granting or refusing them. (17 Ves. 176, 2 .
C. 490.
Their prayer must be certain and specific as to the relief prayed, (2 Anstr. 551)
and not in the alternative. (17 Ves. 177, 178, 5 Mason 317, 318.) When the
petition is presented in time, it rests in the discretion of the court to allow it
to be filed, in the exercise of which they will determine whether a proper case
is made out (5 Mason 315) , but'if the term elapsesi they cannot act upon the
petition, without an abuse as well as excess of jurisdiction; the court has no power
to receive a supplemental bill after a final decree enrolled, nor to revise the
decree in any other manner than a bill of review, or allow either to be filed,
unless in the cases and for the causes specified in the rules which form the law
of equity ; discretion can be exercised only on the existence of the required
case and cause, but on no other subject ; the authority to open the decree is
special, and must be pursued strictly. The chancellor must decide whether the
given state of facts brings the case within the rules; but if he thinks they do not,
he cannot permit the petitioner to proceed further.
This is the interesting question in the present case: have the petitioners made
out a case for a bill of review under any circumstances ; if so, are those presented
a sufficient cause for opening the decree: if they have done these, there is abundant
reason for believing that their rights have been overlooked, and that the abstract
justice and equity of their claim would have prevailed nad it been asserted in
time. The evidence which is before us judicially, with that which has been
known otherwise, makes out a case (till explained) of, an imposing character as
to original right, long neglected and now for the first time asserted in this court:
on the other hand the case of the defendant is one not without its strong appeals,
on account of the persevering efforts of years to disincumber his claim of the adversary pretensions of a host of claimants. He has hitherto been successful in
establishing his right, according to all the forms and rules of law, so that it has
become as perfect as the decree of this court could make it. If it shall remain
unreversed, a princely fortune awaits him as the heir at law; it has been recovered
by the exertions and active vigilance of the defendant, while its pursuit in this

APPENDIX.

777

country was abandoned for two years after the death ofthe former owner, by the
new petitioners ; who first assert their claim after the defendant has removed all
difficulties interposed by his former adversanes. If the prize is awarded to the
petitioners they are bound to pay no salvage , if retained by the defendant, the
actual owner is entitled to no compensation for his lost right, in either event
there must be abstract injustice: which, as individuals, it might appear to us to
be the case of greater hardship, is not easy to say ; as judges our course is plain.
With the relative claims of the two parties as they stood at the death of Matthias Aspden, we have now nothing to do; but must examine them as they were
when this petition was filed, one comes before us on his original right, the other
has, in addition, our final decree in favour of his , whether we have acted erroneously is not for us to say; the cause is now out of ourjurisdiction, unless it can
be again brought within it by the matters set up now. Whether it can or cannot,
it is not for us to look to consequences, we must follow the course prescribed by
law; to qscertain, first, our power according to the rules of equity to open this
decree on the case presented; next; the sufficiency of the causes alleged for its
exercise. The importance of the case, in all respects, induces us to take a view
of all the points it involves, as it is desirable that the general principles which
govern cases of this description, should be so explained as to leave, for the future,
less doubt on their application than has attended this.
As the authority of a court of chancery to review its qecrees, rests on the order
of lord Bacon, we must consider it as a test to which all applications are to be
applied.
"No decree shall be reversed, altered or explained, being once enrolled, but
upon bill of review ; and no bill of review shall be admitted, except it be upon
error in law appearing in the body of the decree, without further examination of
matters in fact; or he shall show some new matter which hath risen il time,,
after the decree, and not any new proof which might have been used when the
decree was made.
11Nevertheless, upon new proof which bath come to light since, and after the
decree made, and could not possibly have been used at the time when the decree
passed, a bill of review may be granted by the special license of the court, but
not otherwise." (Tot. Proceed. Ch. 41 , B. L. T. 279, 280.)
Miscasting by an error in auditing or numbering, may be explained and reconciled by an order without bill of review (Tot; 41, 42). The terms imposed on
the party are specified as before referred to. (Tot. 42-47.)
These orders have continued to be respected as the basis of equity jurisprudence, till the present day (3 Atk. 35', 3 J. C. 126, 16 Ves. 350), both in England and the equity courts of the different states and of the United States. (5
Mass. 310.)
The first question in order is, whether a bill of review can be filed in this
court during the pendency of the cause in the supreme court by appeal. The
question has never been decided in the courts of equity in England (1 Ves.
89). In a late case on an appeal from the rolls, the chancellor decided on a petition presented for leave to file a bill of review, without adverting to its being on
an appeal (4 Cond. Ch. 114); so that we are without any direct decision on the
point whether one could be filed with the master of the rolls, after an appeal to
the chancellor, or before him after an appeal to the lords.
Their appellate power, as we have seen, is an assumed one, from the necessity
of the case; being neither conferred orregulated by statute, it may, and has been,
exercised according to the exigency of the case and the time, as either may call
for the adoption of new rules or oider,, which partake more of the charactei of

VOL. ix.-4 x

APPENDIX.
legislation, than the mere regulation Qf the forms and modes of proceeding in tie
practice ot the courts (4 Bridgm. Eq. Dig. 50, pl. 49). Not restrained by any act
of parliament they permit or prohibit the action of courts of equity on cases apUealedf from, according to their discretion.
By their ancient practice an appeal stayed all proceedings in the cause, and it
continued till the frequency of appeals and their abuse, for the purposes of delay,
induced the house of lords to alter it and permit the chancellor to proceed after
appeal this was deemed indispensable, as an appeal might be taken on every
order on a petition, motion, or interlocutory decree in the progress of a suit lit
equity (15 Ves. 184, 16 Ves. 213, 218, 18 Ves. 453, 1 J. C. 327 3J. C. 66,
68, 123, 162); this alteration of the practice took place, as chancellor Kent say-,
in 1798. (1 3. C. 80.) It is not followed in New York, where an appeal suspends
proceedings on the point appealed from, but the chancellor may, in his discretion,
proceed if the court of errors is not in session, or in possession of the case. (1
J. C. 81, 327; 3 J. C. 66, 68.)
In that state, too, that court has power to render its practice conformable to
that of the house of lords, to prevent the abuse of appeals on orders and interlocutory decrees, (1 3. C. 127, 128 3 J. C. 69, 123) and the court of chancery
acts on the same principle in proceeding after appeal, (3 J. C. 162, 166) not
because the nature and effect of an appeal is not to suspend proceedings below
in equity as a writ of error does in law, but because the exception is made from
necessity. Lord Eldon says, that in doing so, "he acts by the authority of the
lords-such is their clear understanding-as they permit the practice it amiounts
to their authority." (9V.316.) Chancellor Kent adopts this reason. (1 J.C.S8.)
it may therefore be taken as the settled practice in England and N. York that aii
appeal does not stay proceedings, unless an order to that effect is made by the
chancellor or the special order of the house of lords or court of errors, which
either is competent to make; if not made, then tile chancellor.may proceed in
the cause to its termination, when an appeal may be taken on the whole proceedings in the cause. (9 V 319, 14 V 184, 15 V 585.) "It is more expedient" (as lord Eldon says) "to make the application to the house of lords than
to the court below, as the order made upon that occasion may be the subject of
appeal, and it is difficult to determine how far appeals may go," (15 V 182)
and if the court could not proceed after an appeal it "1would make a chancery
suit the greatest nuisance." (9 V 318.)
It cannot be denied that these are powerful reasons for the prevailing practice, when the inferior and appellate courts have power to adoptit. they cannot
however be applied to cases of appeal from the decrees of this court, which
must be final ones oniall the matters in controversy between the parties, leaving
nothing on which there is a power to act except in their execution.
The appeal is by a right given by a statute, of the benefits of which the party
cannot be deprived, if he gives the security required by law. (3 D. 78.)
It is in the nature of an appeal or writ of Orror, to operate as a supersedeas
(3 DalI. 87, 118, 5 Cr. 532) to the execution of the decree or judgment appealed from , the record is removed from the inferior to the superior court,
leaving the former nothing to act upon. (15 V 182.) When the appeal or writ
of error is matter of right, no terms can be imposed, if it is matter of favour or
indulgence, they may be; as in appeals from the rolls to the chancellor or reheartogs, these are matters of indulgence known to no other than courts of equity ;
the proceedings at the rolls are not suspended except by special order, but that
originates in a special order of lord Clarendon, and is not founded on any general
principle of the law of equity. (9 V 317, 318.)
When final judgments or decrees are removed, there is no proceeding to sus.

APPENDIX.
pent] except execution, the benefit of tie appeal would therefore be loqt if the
court below could enforce it; hence has iesulted the rule which makes-thbil
operate as a supersedeas.
An appeal to the house of lords brings the cause and record before them
(Glib. F R. 190, 191), and by the ancient practice prior to1798 stayed all proceedings in chancery, (15 V 184) and yet does in Scotch appeals (15 V 182).
When the cause is once before the house of lords, it was necessary to obtain a
special order, that the respondents be at liberty to go on with the account
before theo master, notwithstanding the appeal. (2 B. P C. 108, M'Cartney
v. Ludlow, 21 Journal House of Lords 82. In the case of Barnfield v. Popharp, the court of chancery proceeded in the account after an appeal, when the
house was prorogued (L Vern. 344) , this however was a special case, the
appeal was made in June 1685 and no parliament sat till 1689. This circumstance made an exception to the rule, which seems not to have been departed
from in any other case till the late practice was introduced. (8 B. P. C. 2, 6.)
In 1686, during that long intermission of parliaments, the chancellor, in the
case of Barbon v. Searles, permitted a bill of review to be filed, after a decree
of dismission had been affirmed in the house of lords, on the ground that the
lords were not then in sesston to give directions , and if they were, yet as
answers to petitions to them were not on oath, and the house had referred the
cause back to be reheard as to one of the parties, the chancellor conceived that
defendant ought to answer so as to enable the plaintiff to make application to
the lords, the demurrer was overruled, defendant ordered to answer, but the
plaintiff was not to proceed any further without the special order of the court.
The plaintiff's counsel did not pretend that the court could alter or reverse the
order of the house, but put the case on the same ground as the chancellor,
alleging as their reasons, that as the house could not act in the interval, there
was a necessity for the action of the chancellor, or the party by death or otherwise might lose the benefit of the bill. (1 Vern. 416, 418, Vide 1 J. C. 196.)
In a prior case the defendant was decreed to answer a bill of review or demur
on the errors assigned after the dismission ofan appeal to the house of lords ; but
it was on an allegation that the cause was carried by collusion without defence,
and the benefit of the order of dismission was saved to the defendant. (Finch
468,469.)
This seems to be the utmost extent to which any court of equity have gone
after an appeal; when they have gone further and attempted to review or reverse
what had been done in the house of lords, the latter have asserted their powers
as an appellate court.
In the case before referred to of Barnfield v. Popham, a bill of review had been
filed in chancery, after a decision on appeal; on a petition to the lords, stiggesting
that that court had proceeded to examine into an order made by them for the
purpose of reversing it, the party and his solicitors were ordered to attend the
house (15 Journal House of Lords 328), a committee was appointed to report
what ought to be done (Ibid. 330), who reported that as the chancellor had not
proceeded on the bill of review, nothing need be done by the house (Ibid. 332,
S B. C. 3). After this a petition was presented to the lords, praying directions
by them to the court of chancery, to proceed on the bill of review. The petition was dismissed, 1' in regard, itappeared, that the motion therein complained
of had been already settled by tile
house." (8 B. P C. 8; 16 Journal House of
Lords 197.)
These cases show that, by the ancient practice, the court of chancery, in cases
of necessity, nuight proceed, after an appeal from an interlocutory order, to settle

780

APPENDIX.

an account before a master that they might receive a bill of review after adecree of dismission in the house of lords, and act upon it by their special order;
but that they viewed it as a contempt in the patty and his counsel, to examine
their decree for the purpose of reversal, by a bill of review in the court of chancery.
This course seems to accord with the rules of equity, and to be particularly
applicab!e to the judicial system of the United States. The equity powers of the
supreme court, in ordinary cases, are exclusively appellate by the constitution,
they cannot take cognizance of an original bill in equity, for the want of jurisdiction, and as an appellate court cannot sustain an application for a bill of review
(4 Dess. 13, 14), or an appeal from an order of the circuit court refusing it, as it
is not a final decree, and no act of congress has extended their appellate power
to such a case (1 Hen. and Munf. 557, 559; S. P 6 Cranch 51, 6 Wheat. 448),
and as it is a matter of discretion.
A bill of revivor, a supplemental bill, or bill of review, is an original bill, so far
as it relates to the court in which it is filed, and any action upon it is by the original power of the court which gave the decree over its own proceedings: appellate power is exercised only over the proceedings ofinferior courts, not on those
of the appellate court.
So, on the other hand, the inferior court, after the action of the appellate court,
is hound by its decree as the law of the case, and must carry it into execution
according to their mandate; they cannot vary it or examine it for any other purpose, or give any other or further relief. (1 J. C. 194, 196.) They cannot sustain a bill of review on any matter finally decided on appeal (1 H. and M. 557,
558), or for error apparent in the decree of the appellate court (3 Muof. 228,
Ait. 69), or intermeddle with it further than to settle so much as had been remnanded. (1 J. C. 196.)
The court of appeal decides on the whole case, and gives such decree as the
court below ought to have made. Such is the acknowledged doctrine of courts
of review (1 J. C. 194), and the express direction of the twenty-fourth section of
the judiciary act (I Story 61), and the supreme court remands the cause to the
circuit, with a mandate to execute their decree.
When this is done they will not grant a rehearing, and, on a subsequent appeal,
nothing is brought up but the proceeding subsequent to the mandate. (7 Wheat.
58; 5 Cranch 313, 10 Wheat. 442.) Whatever was before the court, and disposed of by its decree, is considered as finally disposed of. The house of lords
never grant a rehearing. (3 Dow P C. 157.)
The supreme court have no power to review their decisions, whether in a case
at law or in equity; a final decree in chancery is as conclusive as a judgment at
law. (1 Wheat. 355 ; 6 Wheat. 113, 116.) Both are final as to the rights adjudicated upon.
It is clear, therefore, that a circuit court cannot, on a bill of review, reverse
a decree of the supreme court in a cause remanded to them for execution for
error apparent; nor reverse their own decree during the pendency of an appeal,
as that would be a direct interference with the power of the supreme court over
a cause before them. If they should affirm the original decree, and remand the
cause for execution, this court would be bound to obey the mandate; or on a simple affirmance would be equally obliged to execute it, notwithstanding their
reversal on a bill of review.
But they can do this, give leave to file the bill as an amendment, by adding
new matter and parties to the original record.
After a writ of error is brought, the court below may amend the record by ad-

APPENDIX.

781

ding the charge of the court, which had been excepted to (12 Serg. and Rawle
13, 14), and many other cases where the justice of the case requires it.
A court of equity is not less liberal in allowing amendments than courts of law;
and we can see no reason why they should not be made during the pendency of
an appeal as before, especially when we consider that the benefit of the new
matter may be lost by time or accident, or the party may lose the bill of review
by the equitable limitation as to time. (10 Wheat. 149.)
What will be done with it after the court have given leave to file it, is another
question. Should the supreme court award an order or certiorari to return it to
them, the circuit court must obey the order, and then it will be for the supreme
court to act upon the new matter or not, as they shall think beloigs to them as
an appellate court. If not, then it remains in the circuit court, as a subject not
acted upon in either court.
In an admiralty case, the supreme court have decided, that after their mandate
has been before the circuit court; on all proceedings to carry it into effect, the original proceedings are always before the court, so far as they are necessary to determine any new points or rights in controversy between the parties, which were
not terminated by the original decree. They may inspect them to ascertain the
merits or demerits of the parties, so far as they bear on the new claim, and must
decide upon the whole examination what their duty requires. (10 Wh. 442.)
Where an application was made to the circuit court to open a decree in an admiralty case, after an appeal to the supreme court, the learned judge of the first
circuit refused it, but considered it competent to allow the new evidence to be
placed upon the record with a memorandum, that it was brought in after the appeal, and it was transmitted together with the record. (1 Mason 23, 24.) In these
cases the application of new parties to be permitted to make claim after an appeal, must be made in the circuit court, (9 Cranch. 214) and all amendments
must be made there, (11 Wh. 38) though that court may make amendments in
cases before them on appeal from the district court.
In a common law case it has been decided, that after an affirmance of a judgment of the supreme court of New York, by the court of errors,-and their judginent affirmed in the supreme court of the United Stares, that a writ of error
coram vobis will lie to reverse the original judgment for an error in fact.
(Packaid v. Davis, 8 Peters 324.)
There is a strong analogy between proceedings in admiralty and chancery, but
still stronger between a writ of error coram vobis, and a bill of review on matters
of fact not In the record, both proceedings are in the same court, and if there is a
reversal, it is for error in fact. In the case of Packard v. Davis, the fact of
alleged error was, that Davis was a consul, not suable in a state court, which
(lid not appear in the record, but he is allowed to state it in his writ of error
coram vobis, for the purpose of reversing the judgment. So here, the error in fact
alleged is, that the court decreed John Aspden of Lancashire to have been the
heir at law of the testator, whereas, the petitioners allege, that John Aspden of
London was the heir at law; and they ask for leave to file their bill of review, to
enable them to prove this fact, and on that ground to reverse the decree.
We have, therefore, no doubt that we have cognisance of a bill of review after
an appeal, if it is brought on newly discovered evidence of facts, but not if it is
for error apparent in the body of the decree. The whole case is now in the sipreme court, on the law and the facts; they may affirm, or reverse in whole or in
part, and after rendering such decree as we ought to have done, will direct their
mandate to us for its execution, which we must obey; we cannot alter, review,
revise, reverse or explain it, for any errors however apparent, except miscasting

782

APPENDIX.

or clerical mistakes. It will be time enough to decide whether we can reverse
it for error in fact on the bill now offered, when it shall be necessary; in the
meantime, we feel at perfect liberty to allow it to be filed, if in other respects a
proper case is made out.
The next subject of inquiry is, whether the petitioners are entitled to a bill to
review the decree rendered in the case of Packer v. Nixon.
The rule is well settled, that it lies only in favour of a party or privy to the original suit, as in a writ of error (Pr. Reg. 50, Boh. C. C. 383, 1 Harr. Ch. 290, 6
Wheat. 263, 4 II. & M. 244, 4 Vin. 410; Mit. 72), or those who are aggrieved
by the decree. As the petitioners were not parties to the original suit, the only
question is, whether there was a privity between them and any of the parties, or
whether they come within the description of persons aggrieved by the decree,
who may have a bill of review to revise and reverse it. Privity is fourfold. 1.
Of estate, as donor and donee, lessor or lessee. 2. In blood, as heir to the ancestor,
or between coparcenors. 3. In representation, as executors, &c. to the testator.
4. In tenure, as the lord and tenant, which may be reduced to two general heads,
privies in deed and privies in law. (Co. Litt. 271, a, 3 Mason 510.)
Privity of title is, where a party dies whose interest is transmitted to some
other person, who succeeds by law to the title of the deceased, if lie claims by
purchase or devise, he introduces a new title not before in the case, the prrvity
must be by representation, as heir ii relation to the real estate, and executors
and administrators to the personal. (3 Mason 511 , Gihb. F It. 172, 186; 2 Harr.
Ch. 123.)
A devisee is not in privity with the testator, nor is an assignee or vendee in by
privity (1 Ch. Cas. 123, 1 Eq. Cas. Abr. 164, pl. 3, Pr. Reg. 50; Bob. C. C.
383, 1 C. C. 174, Coop. Rep. 43, 44, Tot. 173, 1 Vin. 426, 3 Mason 509)
with the assignor. So in cases of bankruptcy the assignor cannot revive a decree
in favour of the bankrupt, and in this respect the rule is the same in bills of revivor
as of review (1 Atk. 88, 89, Com. 590), for privity of title is not enough, it must
be nvity of title derived by the act of the law. (3 Mason 512.)
As to parties the rule is so strict, that a bill of review lies not in favour of one
in whose favour a decree is rendered for less than he claims (2 Frepm. 1S2, 183
4 Ch. Rep. 99,100 , Bob. 387, 2 Harr. 127 1 Ch. Cas. 53, contra but by mistake in overrmded instead of allowed in S. C.), it lies only in favour of him against
whom the decree is rendered or whose bill is dismissed (2 Freem. 183 2 Eq.
Cas. Abr. 174) and when the heir of the mortgagee brought a bill against the
mortgagor for foreclosure and obtained a decree, on a will being discovered which
gave the mortgage money to the executor, the mortgagor exhibited his bill of
review to be relieved against the decree, and praying the court to direct to whom
,the money should be paid, the court would not make the executor a party, but
left him at liberty to sue the mortgagor on the mortgage covenant. (4 Ch. Rep.
52, 54, 2 Freem. 148, 149; 3 Ch. Rep. 94, 2 Eq. Cas. Abr. 173, 174.)
In the present case the petitioners, as devisees, are in privity neither with the
parties or the testator; they do not claim by representation, succession or act of
law ; but as purchasers under the will, in which capacity they must take, if at
all, as we decided in the original case. Had they been purchasers from any of
the parties, they would not have been their privies in deed or in law. Their
claim is adverse to all the parties in the cause, and not coming in by any privity
cannot sustain a bill of review.
It is unnecessary to examine the cases in which remamdermen, or others
whose interest is affected by a decree to which they are not parties, may have a
remedy in a court of equity ; it is enough for this case that none but parties or

APPENDIX.

783

privies are entitled to a bill of review, and that the petitioners appear before us
in neither character. If they do not come within that class of persons who ate
aggrieved by the decree, their petition cannot be received. There is but one
case of this description to be found in the books.
A vicar sued the parish for tithes; four of the parishioners were appointed to
defend the suit; a decree passed against the four, and all the miners in the parish
(Vide 2 Vern. 184 , 1 Eq. Cas. Abr. 163) , the court said that one of the miners,
not one of the four, though not party or privy, might have a bill of review, because he is grieved by the decree. (1 Ch. Cas. 272; Pr. Reg. 50.)
It is obvious that this case cannot aid the petitioners, it was a peculiar one
which requires no further elucidation than to state it.
Were we to consider this general expression, "persons grieved," as applying
to all persons whose interest may be affected by a decree, we must extend it to
devisees, purchasers and assignees, in opposition to a weight of authority which
judicial power is incompetent to remove or shake.
On this ground then there is an insuperable objection to granting leave to file
the bill now offered , we might stop here, but as other important questions necessarily arise on the case, it is proper to decide them, as the merits depend as
much on one view as another.
The objection taken to the affidavit iswe think unanswerable. The one annexed to the petition by one of the solicitors, and to the bill by the agent of the
petitioners, is in the common form of affidavits to original bills, which require
the verification of the complainant; they want both form and substance, as
neither of them contains the necessary averment which a party is bound to make.
Neither does the supplemental affidavit of the two solicitors remove the difficulty. It presents this case
that about the 3d of June last they were
retained in this cause, and in a few days afterwards discovered the new matter
now set up for a bill of review ; the petition was presented immediately, contaming an averment, that neither the petitioners or their agent, at the date of the
decree, knew of the existence of the matter thus discovered, " and that it could
not have been made use of by them in any way at the said hearing or before said
decree."
Now there is no direct affidavit to this averment even by reference to the petition or bill, the forms require it to tie an the body of the affidavit , admitting
that under the circumstances of this case, petitioners residing in London, and
their agent here being a merchant, tile
affidavit of the solicitor might be taken
is to the fact of discovery- it cannot be as to the all important fact, "that the
matter could not have been used before the decree." It matters not, that it was
not known, if it could have been known and used by the exercise of a reasonaile degree of active diligence at any time before the decree, it is a conclusive
answer to the petition. How stands the case in this respect. the petitioner9
retained no solicitor till near six months after the decree; by the affidavit of Mr
Broom it appears that in March 1831 he communicated to Mr Brown, the pendency of the suit of Packer v. Nixon, its subject matter, nature, and the parties
respectively who claimed the estate of Mr Aspden. The bill of review show&
that from 1825 till 1830, a suit was depending in the court of chancery in England, against the same defendant for the same subject matter to which the petitioners were parties by a bill of revivor, which was dismissed, as they are informed
and believe, upon an opinion, that the personal property was distributable according to the laws of the United States , after which they brought another suit on
the equity side of the court of exchequer, which was dismissed in 1831.
After this active pursuit of the fund and the executor in the courts in England for six years, and with the knowledge that it was here in his hands for dis-

784

APPENDIX.

tribution, they make no claim, employ, no counsel, or make any movement in the
assertion of their rights till the summer of 1833, when they, as the bill alleges,
gave some instructions to Mr Bowen, which are not produced. When petitioners thus circumstanced appear in a court of equity, and ask for leave to file a bill
of review, on new matter discovered an the possession of the executor, on the
first search they had ever made, or authorized to be made, and that ten years
after the death of the testator ; it presents a case of the most gross and palpable
negligence, while it remains unaccounted for. In such a case, we should require
not only the strong affidavit which is necessary in all cases, but the strongest
one which would be necessary from any petitioners, their solicitors, attorneys
and agents employed to conduct the suit an England, as well as their agent here.
There must be a direct appeal to the conscience of all, by a searching drastic
affidavit, which should purge them all bf such negligence. Yet from England
we have not one word, from party, solicitor, country attorney or law agent,
though an affidavit on another matter has been taken in London since the pendency and knowledge of this petition. No person employed in the suits from
1825 to 1831 has given us his oath on any subject. A witness has been called
from Lancashire to London, to verify the parish registers, for the purpose of
showing the pedigree of the petitioners. His affidavit shows very active diligence in searching the registers as early as 24th July last, but it also shows that
they were found where they ought to be, and where they were known to be,
that is, in the places where the persons lived and died , as that of the solicitors
does, that the papers of the testator were found in his trunk in the hands of his
executor, and both, so far from removing the imputation of negligence, confirm
it most conclusively, in the absence of any affidavit by other persons.
Being satisfied that the evidence now discovered could, by the exercise of
ordinary diligence, have been procured and used before the decree, we must refuse leave to file the bill on this ground if it was the only one, and we must not
be understood as deciding this point on the particular circumstances of this case
alone. The common affidavits to original bills cannot be received on petitions
for bills of review , they must be in the usual form, and contain the averment not
only of the party, but of all other persons whose negligence may be imputable to
the petitioners, that they could not possibly have used the evidence at the hearing, or before the decree. This is not merely form, but the very essence and
substance of the application for review; no decree can be opened upon the mere
fact of discovery, if there has been negligence in making the proper search,
when a party has it in his power to remove the imputation and does not do it,
especially in a case like this, every presumption is against him.
It must, therefore, be understood as our decided opinion, that to all petitions
for bills of review, the affidavit must be made by the party making the application, unless it shall appear from special circumstances, that the whole subject is
so fully in the knowledge of some other person, and that he can satisfy the
court on all matters upon which they are to act.
The most responsible and solemn act of civil justice which any court can perform is, the reversing their own deliberate judgments; it is the most dangerous
too, when it is done on the affidavit of a party on whose oath a fortune depends,
and especially when the decree points him exactly to the proof he is to make or
procure; yet, if by such oath he makes out a case, we are bound to open a decree, if there is nothing to throw suspicion over the application. The rules of
equity have wisely provided, not only that the party shall make an oath, but that
the court shall.be satisfied, as well of the fact that new matter has been discoTheir first step is
vered, as that it could not have been known and used before.
0

APPENDIX.
the all important one, and as it necessarily leads to a second, it then becomes
irrevocable, the decree becomes open for examination in a new course of litigation, it will be interminable, our most solemn proceedings will be but sfiadows,
if, before we revise them on the oath of a litigant party, he is not required on his
part to comply with every condition imposed on him, as indispensable to any
movement of the court. If he does not do his duty, we directly violate ours,
in granting him a dispensation not warranted by the law or usages of a court of
equity.
In this case, we are not satisfied with the case presented by the affidavits ; on
the other hand we think that it would be difficult to support it by any affidavit
however strong.
This leads to a consideration of the application as it would stand on satisfactory affidavits.
Among the exhibits in the case of Packer v. Nicon, is a copy of the bill filed
in chancery by John Aspden of London, the father of the petitioners, against
Mr Nixon, the executor. This bill is referred to in the bill of review now
offered for our allowance, and is therefore judicially before us.
This bill was filed in 1825, praying that the complainant might be declared
the heir at law to the testator, and as such, entitled to his whole personal estate,
and praying for an injunction to the transmission of the estate to the executor. The will and accompanying codicils or memoranda were set out at
length, with an averment that Mr Nixon had proved it here and in England, had
taken on himself its execution, and possessed himself of all the personal property of testator. He then avers himself to be the heir at law; and as evidence
thereof, shows, that Thomas Aspden of Simonstone in Lancashire, was the common ancestor of the testator and himself, who had issue twelve children, the
eldest of whom was John Aspden, who died and was buried at Deptford in Kent
in 1754, leaving issue only one son, Andrew Aspden, who died and was buried
in the same place in 1771, leaving issue the complainant his only child and heir
at law. That the testator was the only son of Matthias Aspden, the third son
of Thomas of Simonstone, the common ancestor; he also .stated that at the
time of filing the bill he was eighty-five years of age.
After their father'i death, the petitioners became parties to the suit by bill of
revivor an 1828, and its averments thus became theirs; they also filed a bill as
heirs at law of the testator, in the exchequer in 1831. Suchwas the case of
the father from 1825 to 1828, and of the petitioners from 1828 till 1831, in the
courts of England. This is precisely their case as first presented in this court
in 1834, there is no new matter now introduced as evidence of their title, not
one fact alleged which was not before substantially averred. From the first to
the present movement, the whole case iests on pedigree; it was necessary to
trace it to a time beyond the memory of living witnesses, there could be no
evidence to prove it but the registers of births, marriages, deaths and burials,
traditions, hearsay, or the written recognition of relationship by tie testator or
other members of the family. Let it come from whatever source, it tended to
but one point-the common ancestry of the complainant and the testator, and
a lawful succession from the elder biother, all of which was as fully known in
1825 as now. John Aspden was then eighty-five years old, born in 1740, he
was fourteen years of age when his grandfather died, and thirty-one at the death
of his father; he must have been familiar with the family pedigree for more than
halfa century, after he came to maii's estate, and when he was seeking a large
fortune by an adversary suit, must have been aware of the necessity of proving
his case; on what subject did he want knowledge-pedigree; it was easily attainVOL. ix.-4 Y

786

APPENDIX.

able at the places where he was bound first to look-the registers, and the tes.
tator's papers would show it; if he did not examine them, there is gross negligence, in which case he is presumed to know all that he might have known with
reasonable diligence. '(16 V 353.) But it is needless to resort to presumption
in such a case as this , it is neither possible or credible, thatihe counsel or solicitors in England, would prosecute a suit by an heir at law whose succession
was to be traced back one hundred and thirty-six years, without examining the
registers; or that if the search had been made without effect, they would not
have advised the present petitioners to give some account of it. The deposition
of Mr Neville with the accompanying copies of the registers, shows the facility
with which they were obtained , those from Padeham and Whatley are dated on
the 24t1li July, the same day on which Mr Neville states he went there for the
purpose; the others were obtained between the 4tb and 8th of August, and the
affidavit taken on the 9th, being only fifty-three days from filing the present
petition.
There is no averment in the bill, petition, or in any other way, that all this
evidence was not in possession of the parties from 1825 , the counsel in their
arguments have not pretended it, they surely cannot expect the court to presume
it. The facts attested by the registers therefore cannot be deemed new matter
This brings us to the consideration of the testator's memoranda on the two
separate papers found-in his trunk, with the entries in his bible, and as we should
probably have permitted the petition to be amended, so as to introduce the cancelled wills of the testator, it may not be improper to refer to them to avoid a
future application.
These memoranda are good evidence of pedigree as the deliberate declarations
of the testator, and tend strongly to prove the fact that his grandfather Thomas
had twelve children, of whom John was the eldest, this is the very fact stated
in the bill of 1825, and of course has not been newly discovered. These memoranda also note the baptism of several of the children, with their places of burial,
bt none of them take notice of the descendants of any, except Matthias the father
of the testator ; so far as they relate to the baptism and burial, they correspond
with the registers proved by Mr Neville's affidavit, and thus far disclose no matter which the registers do not contain. They are not new in fact or to the
knowledge of the petitioners or their father, if they or either of them knew of the
registers before; they cannot be deemed by the court to be new if the registers
were known to their counsel, solicitors, attorneys or agent, for knowledge by either
of them is knowledge by the parties; nor is the matter deemed new in law, if
by reasonable diligence either might have known of it in time to use it before
the decree. (3 Atk. 36; 4 B. P C. 483, 484, 5 Mason 312, 313.) As facts,
therefore, we cannot consider them as new matter, they can only be considered
as new evidence of facts known since 1825. There are some other facts referred
to in these memoranda, but it is necessary to inquire only into their materiality
hereafter. The cancelled wills are evidence not only of the intention of the
testator at the time of making them, (8 S. and R. 579, Seaton v. Kuhn, C. C.) but
as the recognition of a kinsman or relation, and that there was a person in the
family of the name of T. 1. an elder brother of the William from whom the lessor
claimed. (11 E. 504, 506)
In the will of 1776, a legacy of 100 pounds is given " to my cousin John
Aspden of London;" in that of March 1791 he gives" to my second cousin John
Aspden, living in Old street, London, 10 pounds, and tohis two daughters the sum
of two pounds each ;" this recognition of the testator is good evidence of the

APPENDIX.

787

relationship of both the father and the present petitioners, but it is no newly discovered fact.
In 1825 John Aspden knew that the testator was the grandson of Thomas of
Simonstone, and that he was his great grandson , of necessity then they were
cousins in fact, and so deemed in law, and nothing more is now discovered ex
cept the fact that the petitioners are the daughters of John.
The new discovery being then exclusively of the. evidence of well known
facts, we proceed to inquire whether it is of that nature as suffices to open a
decree, as also whether it is so relevant and material as if used before the decree
would probably have produced a different result.
The order of lord Bacon, allowing bills of review, is in its terms and its uniform
construction applicable only to two cases, error in law in the body of the decree
without further examination of fact; the error must be apparent in the decree
itself (Tot. 41, 2 C. C. 153- P. C. 260, 1 Eq. C. Ab. 81 , 4 Vin. 414, p. 12),
it is in the nature of a writ of error (4 Vin. 407), and lies for want or excess of
jurisdiction, (1 Vin. 292; 2 Harr. Ch. 123; 127) or an error in conscience on a
matter proved (4 Vin. 408, 1 R. A. 382); the error must appear on the case
as stated in the decree, and every fact must be admitted as stated (2 Harr. Ch.
124, Bob. C. C. 381, 386; 2 Eq. C. Ab. 174, 2 Freem. 182, 4 Vin. 407, 408,
1 C. C. 54, 55,105; Hard. 174), the decree is matter of record, and can be tried
only by the record (Pr. Reg. 51); if there is a mistake 9f fact, it must be corrected
on an appeal (2 Freem. 182, 1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 1.64;
Lane 68, 69), or the decree
is final (4 Vin. 407, 1 C. C. 231,233, Boh. C. C. 385, 396), and it is no error
that the matter decreed is contrary to the proof, (1 Vern. 166) for after a decree it
is presumed the court judged on the whole proo faccording to its purpose (Hard.
174) , witnesses cannot be re-examined anew (4 Vin. 407, 2 Freem. 181, 1
Eq. C. Ab. 81, Dick. 614, 2 Mad. Ch. 536, &c., 5 Mass. 311, full on these
points).
These bills are not favoured, and a second one will not be allowed however
manifest the error (2 C. C. 133, 2 Mad. Ch. 541), and if a fact is omitted to be
stated that is matter of appeal. (4 Vin. 408, 2 Keb. 279, pl.
46, 5 Mass. 311.)
After a decree the proofs are no more to be questioned than the verdict of a
jury on a writ of error, (Hard. 51, 127) nor is a master's report confirmed on exceptions, it is as conclusive as a verdict. (6 Wheaton 113, 116.)
Error apparent does not apply to an erroneous judgment merely,and the question
is notwhether the cause is well decided, but whether the decree is right or wrong
on the face of it, as an infant not having a day allowed him, &c., (17 Yes. 178) a
decree taken pro confesso, where the party was not brought in contempt, (4 Ch.
R. 64, 66) or the decree is contrary to a statute, (4 Yin. 407, 1 R. A. 382) or for
decreeing a sale under the authority of a law without complying with its provisions,
(8Peters 145) , not for any errors in the progress of a cause, or a master's report
excepted to, because not in the body of the decree (2 Eq. C. Ab. 175, pl. 12; 4
Vin.414, pl.6, 8 B. P C. 391, 392), but if part is repugnant to another, (Bohun
C. C. 391) or the decree impossible, (1 C. C. 86) it lies; so if the.decree is
founded on a record made in a case depending in chancery, which was referred
by the solicitor in the cause without the consent of the party (ICh. Cas. 85,
86) , but to make a decree conclusive as to the facts, it must appear that the
court rendered their judgment upon them as " on reading the proofs it appeared ;"
if it is on reading the proofs, it is decreed that is no decree on the evidence. (2
C. C. 161,162; Bob. C. C. 388.)
The new matter to sustain a bill of review must have risen in time since the
decree (3 Atk. 627) , and not any new proof which might have been used when

788

APPENDIX.

the decree was made, unless it has come to light since, arrd could not possibly
have been used at the time of the decree. (OQd. Tot. 41.) New matter means,
a fact in esse at the time of the decree, not then in the knowledge of the party,
his solicitor, or agent (2 Atk. 534, Dick. 612, 614, 2 Ark. 178), not where a
matter of lact was in issue at the hearing; though new proof of it is discovered
since, it will not be admitted. (2 Freem. 31 4 C. R. 196, 3 P W 371,
4 Vin. 414, 2 Eq. C. Ab. 175, 176, 2 C, R. 45 , 5 Mason 312.) If the bill contain matter, part of which was in a former bill and decree, and part new or by a
supplemental bill, the court will, on a demurrer to so much as was contained in
the former bill, direct the master to see what was in the former bill, and allow the
demurrer accordingly (Gilb. Eq. R. 183, 184) to what was in the former bill.
No witnesses who were or might have been examined on the former bill,
shall be examined to any matter on a bill of review (Boh. C. C. 381, 2 Mad.
Ch. 518 , Pr. Reg. 53) , as where " plaintiff would examine as to a matter of
tender and refusal, which he could not prove before the hearing, but could now
prove it, no precedents could be produced and the bill was dismissed." (2 Ch. R.
66.)
Nothing is a ground to direct a new trial at law, that would not be a ground
for a bill of review to reverse a decree (1 Ch. C. 43; 2 H. Ch.125) , nor Is
the want of any evidence or matter which might have been used in the first
cause, of which the party then had knowledge and there is no proof, but'the
plaintiff might have had the witnesses that were examined. here at the trial;
though the proof on the bill of review was such that the plaintiff in the original
cause could not have recovered; it being his own confession, the court would not
enjoin the judgment at law, and declared that a confession after a decree was no
ground for a bill of reiiew (1 C. C. 43, 44), or where the new evidence is
not applicable to the original issue, nor where the original bill contained information on which he was required with reasonable diligence to try the case at
first, on his whole evidence, and where the relief might have been effectually
asked. (16V 350, 354; 5 Mass. 312,313.) Newevidence cannot be received
on a bill of review in support of a case not in the record (16 V 354, Amb.
293', 5 Mass. 313, 314) , or to draw in question matters which have been settled on an account before the master or put to an issue. (2 B. P C. 109; 2
Atk. 534.)
If a paper is produced by an adversary, it is the same as if produced by the
party, and isnot deemed new matter on a bill of review. (3 Atk. 37.)
The new matter set up must not be merely accumillation (3 Atk. 37 3 J. C.
127) , it must not be the same or similar evidence or corroboration. (I H. and

M. 15)
If the party had knowledge of the matter, but offered no proof of it at the
hearing, it is not the subject of a bill of review (2 Freem. 178; 3 Ch. R. 76, 77).

The new matter must show the right of the party at the time of the, decree,
which was not then known to him (2 V 576) . not additional circumstances,

merely confirming facts before proved (1 H. and M. 179, 200), or proof on the
same points which were in issue, or any evidence in the knowledge of the party
before the decree (Glib. F R. 186, 5 Mason 313, 314), the course of the
court on bills of review is conclusive to show the kind of evidence on which
alone they can be sustained.
The first object is a reversal of the decree, while it remains closed there can'be
no revision or explanation of it, except nisstating. (Glib. F R. 184.) On the
plea by the defendant of the decree, and a demurrer to the new matter set up for
opening it, as insufficient in law, the court decide whether there is a case for

APPENDIX.

789

review. (Glib. F R. 189.) In this stage of the cause nothing is read but what
appears on the face of the decree, but after the demurrer is overuled, the plaintiff
is at liberty to read the bill and answer or any other evidence as at a rehearing,
the cause being now equally open. (I Aik. 290, 5 Mason 309.) Defendant
may, on a plea, disprove the new matter (2 Mad. 543, Mit. 236) , but if lie demurs, it is then too late to show that there is no new matter discovered, as it cannot be insisted on at the hearing. (2Atk. 40, 3 Aik. 217.) The court will not
reverse a decree for any error notspecially assigned in the bill or petition. (Mit.
70, 72; 5 Mason 317.)
If the decree is reversed, on a rehearing the cause is entirely open to the party
in whose favour the decree is; as to the other, it is only open as to the facts coinplained of, if it is on new proof no other can be heard (2 Mad. Ch. 483); there
can be no new evidence on the merits, (6 J. C.256, .1 P W.300; 2 Vern. 463,
2 Ham Ch. 85) without special leave of the court, which is seldom granted
(Gilb. F R. 183), these cases are evidence duly taken and omitted to be read;
evidence of new matter not before ready ; papers since found and allowed to be
proved viva voce, or to Impeach a witness before examined. (6 J. C. 256; P.
C. 64, 10 V 236, 13 V 458, 1 V and B. 153, 154.) New evidence is not
heard in the house of lords on appeal (2 BI. Com. 455, Gilb. Eq. Rep. 156;
Arab. 90,91) , though it may be by the chancellor on appeal from the rolls (P
C. 496, 2 Ark. 408, 2 Vern. 463; Glib. Eq. R. 151), it being in the nature of
a rehearing.
But the relation between these officers is peculiar, and the practice on such
appeals is no guide to the course of equity, in cases where the rehearing is by
the same court which gave the original decree, or to the proceedings in the
courts of the United States on appeal. On a rehearing of a decree after the reversal on bill of review, the party must rely on the new matter in his bill, or the
evidence already in the cause, he can introduce nothing which he had not
assigned as a ground for opening the decree.
The court will not reverse a decree for extraneous matter arising in the progress
of a cause not in the decree (Finch 36, 209; 2 Atk. 534, 3 Atk. 627, 1 Vern.
392, 4 H. & M. 243, 244); the new matter must be such as will bear on the
body of the decree, not on interlocutory orders. As the verdict of a jury cainot
be revised on a writ of error, neither can the report of a master to which exceptions have been filed after confirmation, as it has all the legal effect of a verdict
of the judgment.
The error assigned in this case is an error an fact, in declaring John Aspden of
Lancashire to be the heir at law of the testator ; if the decree is reversed, it must
be on this ground alone; the other grounds taken in the petition are merely introductory to this. The only ground assumed by the petitioners is, that they are
the heirs at law, in which character they claim the fund in the hands of the executor, and this is the only fact on which they rest their case.
They are not parties to the original suit, their title is nowhere set up, orappears
in any part of the proceedings; it was not in the case or at issue in any way.
John Aspden of Lancashire claimed in his own right by descent from William,
the alleged eldest uncle of the testator on the father's side; he established his
claim by competent evidence, without the least reference to there having been
an uncle older than William.
We have then to decide upon a new case, by a new party, on a new title, no
fact of which appeared before the final decree.
The first question is, whether an entire new title, in a new party who is a
stranger to the suit, claiming adversely to all the original parties, can be considered

790

APPENDIX.

newly discovered matter, for the opening of a decree. On this subject we have
no doubt. There is not only no precedent of a new trial at law, or review in
equity, in such a case, but it is opposed to the whole course of adjudication, in
all courts, from the date of lord Bacon's ordinances.
If we take a narrower view of the case, the matter set up is only corroborative
and confirmatory of the registers. The petitioners do not pretend that the fact of
their heirship is matter come to light since the decree passed , or that the evidence of it by the registers has been newly discovered, or could not have been
used at the hearing. They rest their bill of review solely on the memoranda and
other papers of the testator, discovered in June last. Copies of these registers,
duly attested or certified, are good evidence of all matters of pedigree. (1 Dalil.
2 , 10 Serg. and Rawle 389 ; 1 Yates 17, 15.) They are the records of facts,
beyond the memory of mans entitled to great weight, they are alone sufficient
to establish pedigree of a much higher character than hearsay, which is also
admissible.
As to distant facts, they are the primary and principal evidence, not to be
lightly questioned. The contemporaneous memoranda of a member of the family,
made from his own knowledge, may, in some cases, be as good or better evidence;
or family records and muniments of title. But that is not this case ; these memoranda refer to events before the testator was born , the last one was more than a
century after the birth of his uncle John his knowledge must, therefore, have
been derived from hearsay, family papers and entries, or from the registers. In
this case the registers must be considered as the primary and most authentic
evidence, and the memoranda secondary or auxiliary- but view them in either
way, they are only additional to the registers, if they had been produced before
the decree tending to prove the same fact.
Now as it is clear that the family pedigree was known from 1825, and that the
evidence of it by the registers could have been used at the hearing, the petitioners
cannot be now put in a better situation than if' they had been parties and had
produced the registers; in which case the memoranda and cancelled wills would
have been confessedly mere accumulation.
The delay of their application to become parties, certainly gives them no better
claims to the interference of a court of equity, than if they had made it after they
knew of the dismission of their bill, and that the injunction which prevented the
transmission of the fund here to be distributed according to the law of this country, had been dissolved.
There is no principle or rule of equity in relation to this subject that we
should not violate, by now permitting the registers to be used as a ground for
opening the decree; they cannot be used in an appellate court, nor could they
be used at a rehearing if the decree was opened. It would be giving to the mesnoranda the effect of an ac etiam, or quo minus clause in a writ, mere induceanent to introduce inadmissible, yet indispensable evidence, that would make bills
of review matters of course; for the party would only be obliged to show some
item of evidence connected with, or forming a part of his title, which was newly
discovered , then he could, by its potency, introduce an entire new case and
title, and all other evidence, however long he had known of it, and however convenient it might have been to produce it before. The effect of the registers may
be very powerful to show how good a case the petitioners had, and how easy it
was to have established it by the most ordinary attention , but they also show
that a good cause may he lost by negligence, and when that negligence has
been palpable and long continued, any hardship that awaits them is not the
fault of the law. If they had a title or right to this estate, they had a remedy

APPENDIX.

791

which they could lose only by their negligence; they knew the fund was here,
and a small portion of the time and money expended in England in'litigation,
would have sufficed long since to establish it here. No principle is more approved, both in courts of law and equity, than that the best right may be lost by
negligence. It is necessary to the peace of society, and the security of titles.
It remains to take a still closer view of these memoranda and cancelled wills,
their relevancy and materiality, in producing a different result in the original
cause.
The entry in the bible and on the two papers produced, are evidence of one
fact, that John Aspden was the eldest son of Thomas of Slnonstone, and as
such, the stock from which the petitioners must trace their descent, the memoranda as to the other children of Thomas, have no bearing on the case, as they
relate only to the place or time of their burial the succession from John is not
brought down, his death, burial, and place and time, only is noted; this leaves a
long chasm between him and the petitioners, as to which the memoranda or
entry in the bible gives no information. It shows that William, the ancestor of
John of Lancashire, was not the eldest son of Thomas , but not that John of London was the grandson of John of Kent, the son of Thomas of Simonstone.
The cancelled wills show that John of London was the cousin or second cousin of Matthias the testator, and that the petitioners are the daughters of this
John, but not that John was a cousin by descent from John the eldest son of
Thomas; lie is equally a cousin by descent from any of his children. The indispensable link to complete the chain is wanting; there is no evidence to prove the
descent from John: the law cannot presume that John of London was his descendant, rather than of any other son, the fact must be made out in some other
way than by the entry, memoranda or cancelled wills. Had they all been produced previous to the decree, they would not have authorized the court to declare that John of London was the heir. In our opinion on the exceptions to
the master's report, we pointed out the course we should have pursued, but no
notice was given that there was or would be any contest between two adversary
claimants to the heirship on the father's side. Now the newly found evidence
leaves a fatal chasm in the title of the petitioners; if we reverse the decree we
cannot declare the petitioners heirs at law on the new matter set up; it may induce us to doubt whether John of Lancashire is the heir at law, or to believe that
he is not; but, then, for what shall we reverse the decree, or permit it to be
opened to receive evidence that does not make out the petitioners' case ? If we
do, then we must admit the registers, or proof by tradition, hearsay, or some other
source not now pointed out.
We cannot act upon the registers, without making law to suit the case, and
overturning every rule and pnnciple which has been consecrated by courts of
equity for two hundred years ; we can act on no other evidence than that now
set up'without a second bill of review to let in new evidence from other sources
than the register, or the papers now produced. If we could receive a second
bill, we could act on nothing now before us, the consequence is, that the petitioners have neither made out a case where they can be relieved by bill of review, or assigned any cause for review in the new matter set up.
The defendants have objected to the allowance of this bill on the ground, that
the proceedings in the court of chancery and exchequer in England, before referred to, are final and conclusive between the parties to those suits, and operate
as a bar to any resort to the estate of the testator ny the petitioners. If it were
necessary to decide this question, we might not find it one of much difficultv; but
it arises only collaterally on a preliminary proceeding resting in the discretion of

APPENDIX.
the court, on which there can be no appeal, and as we cannot grant leave to file
the bill of review, it is unnecessary to decide it.
Had the bill been filed, it would have been a proper matter to plead in bar, or
to have set out as a ground of demurrer, or it may be pleaded to an original bill.
in either case the decision of this court would be subject to an appeal, we therefore decline giving any opinion on this point.
There is another circumstance in this case which has not been noticed by the
counsel on either side, and to which we advert, only for the purpose of not being misunderstood in passing it without observation.
The petitioners are certainly in time in making their application for the bill of
review in less than six months from the final decree. But the effect of time is
important in other respects, than as a mere legal limitation to the assertion of a
claim in a court of equity; it has been before us on more than one occasion, we
have expressed ourselves plainly and at length on the subject, and must not be
understood as entertaining any doubts of the correctness of former opinions;
whether they would apply to this case is another matter.
We have felt it our duty to give this case our fullest consideration, it has enabled us to come to a conclusion perfectly satisfactory to our own minds , we
should have been better pleased if a case had been presented to us, which would
have authorised the opening of our former decree. It is highly desirable that
justice should be so administered, that no right should be without a remedy, espe
cially in a court of equity. Yet no administration of justice can be so dangerous, as affording remedies in violation of the settled law of the land, the peace
of society and the security of the rights of property are better preserved by leaving
parties to suits to the effects of their own negligence, than disturbing the sanctity of judicial proceedings for light causes. It is for the interest of the public
that there should be some end of suits, and the law aids the vigilant not the
negligent. The petition is dismissed.

APPENDIX III.

Extractsfrom the Opnton of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Easterm Distrct of Pennsylvanza, = the case of PAcER V.
Nrxou, delivered by Mr Justice BALDWIN, onTthe 26th of December
1833.
T EsE extracts are inserted as showing the views of the court on the effect
of the domicil of Matthias Aspden the testator, in the construction of his will.
See ante, page 494.
"The same principle is the rule in Pennsylvania, in all cases to which the common law had been applied by adoption, and it remains now the law of descent
of both real and personal estate, if the provisions of an act of assembly do not in
their words embrace the very case in controversy.
"This must be taken to be a point conclusively settled as the law of the state,
by the authoritative decisions of the high court of errors and appeals;in Johnson
v. Haines, 4 Dall. 64, and of the supreme court in Cresoe v. Laidley, 2 Binn.
279, 284, and no longer open to discussion; that there is in this state, such a
person as an heir at common law, distinct from the statutory heir, to whom the
real estate of a person dying seised and intestate, shall descend by the general
course of the law in right of blood and inheritance. That the common law
of both countries is the same, designating the same person, by the same rules
and courses of descent, as the heir to an ancestor in all cases, and the heir to his
estates of inheritance, unless in the particular event which has happened, an act
of assembly has substituted some other person or persons to take the place of the
ancestor, for its enjoyment and disposition, as a special law for the case, like to
the law of custom, which breaks the course of descent according to the'general
course of the common law,
"This was the law of the province from its first settlement, it was expressly
declared so by the eighth section of the act of 1705, and the heir was referred to
as the heir in the abstract, according to the meaning of the word as given by
Hobart. ' The said lands and tenements shall descend and come to the zntestate's heir at law, according to the course of the common law aforesaid.' (3
Sm. 153, 158, note; 1 Dall. App. 45.)"
"That heir at law, or heir simply, does not mean heirs by. custom in
England, or statutory heirs in Pennsylvania, is the evident meaning of Judge

VOL. ix.-4 z

APPENDIX.
Yeates. The observation of Chief Justice M'Kean, in the same case (2
Yeates, 61, 2 Dal]. 245) Thomas could 'not in this case be considered
as heir at, law in Pennsylvania, where, if at that time a person died
intestate leaving divers children, his real estate descended to all his children
equally; the eldest son having only a double portion or share, and therefore
the devise may even be considered a condition,' draws us irresistibly to the
same conclusion. The eldest son could not take as heir at law by the course
of descent, in a case to which the act of assembly applied, and by superseding the common law established a special course of descent, but he could
be and is by the existing law, heir at law, in this state, according to the opinion
of the court, delivered by the chiefjustice, in Jbhnson v. laines, and of judge
Yeates, in Findley v. Riddle, in a case not embraced in any act of assembly,
which accords precisely with the principle they laid down in Ruston v, Ruston. Taking these three cases in conjunction with Cresoe v. Laidley, they completely negative the proposition, that there is any difference between an heir at
law here and in England, except such as is made by custom or act of assembly.
This becomes a negative, pregnant with important consequences as to the legal
meaning of the word heir at law, that it not only is that, which the common law
gives it, but that it is not to be taken to refer to the customary or statutory heirs.
The term heir at law conveys no Idea, with us they are all h-s co-heirs,' it is
thus a term of contra-distinction, and of designation, denoting the person who
has and can have no co-hezrs, the sole znheritorof the estate of the ancestor by
right, in its nature necessarily exclusive, the law of both countries recognizes
heirs as a class or a number of persons having equal rights by special law, and
the heir as one person entitled by common law to the whole estate by right of
blood alone. This necessarily follows, from the opinions of the judges in Ruston
v. Ruston, in accordance with the rule laid down in all the cases, from Counden
and Clerke' to Findley v. Riddle; that customary or statutory heirs cannot take by
a deed or devise to the heir at law, the hezr, or right heir of the grantor or
devisor, because they are different persons, claiming in different characters and
capacities, and the words are incapable of substitution as convertible terms, without uprooting the whole course of descent, and every settled rule of inheritance
and construction. (Vid. Gilb. Dev. 16, 162, 3 Salk. 336.)"
"In all the cases which have arisen on the construction of wills, the suprenie
court have given to the word heirs, in all the modes of expression, the same effect
which they have by the common law, whether as a word of purchase or limitation, as conveying an estate for life, in fee or in tail. Whenever it operates as a
word of limitation, the estates descend to the heir at common law or in tail, as
the case may be, and not the especial or statutory heirs according to the act of
assembly, the operation of which is confined to cases where an intestate is seised
in his own right, both at law and in equity, of an estate of inheritance, descendible
to his heirs general."
"We do not deem it necessary to examine in detail the various cases which have
been decided in this state on the subject ofthe descent of lands; the very accurate and valuable digest of Mr Wharton furnishes, under the appropriate heads,
a host of authorities, which fully establish the position of Judge Duncan in the
case of Lyle v. Richards. (9 S. and R. 358.)
11 It is plain that from the date of the charter, until laws were made to alter
the succession, lands descended according to the course of the common law ; and
not only descent but enjoyment and purchase, including every other mode of Acquisition, were governed by that law, acquired and lost by the course of the same
common law.'

APPENDIX.

795

"Assuming it then to be the settled law of both countries that the word heir,
right heir, or heir at common law, without any qualifying or explanatory words,
in a will, are to be taken as words of limitation, it remains to take a view of the
cases in which they are words of purchase, or a designation of the pqrson to take
by the will, as purchasers and not by descent. Fearne 79, a. 149, 158, &c."
"Whether, therefore, this case is to be decided by the law of England or of this
state, ihe result must be the same as settling the law of the case, which we will
now apply to the will in question."
',Nothing is left for presumption or construction in face of this solemn certificate, and repeated declaration of intention, it negatives all belief that he meant
to leave his estate to be disposed of by the will of any one but himself, or that
any one was intended to be his heir but the one who was made so by law in
right of blood. Nor can we be convinced that it was his intention that while his
will remained unaltered for thirty-three years, his own disposition of his estate
should be subject to the changes in the law of the state from time to time.
"But had this been in his mind, it would make no difference, for in 1824 he had
no half brothers and sisters alive, and the act of 1797 making no provision for
such case, his heir at law, his lawful heir by the common law of Pennsylvania,
was John Aspden of Lancashire, England, who would have inherited his real
estate, and his personal property would have been vested in the administrator
appointed by the register, in trust for the next of kin, according to the law of
England. The effect of his will is to leave the real estate to descend to his de.
visee, as if no will had been made, and as to the surplus to appoint an executor
with directions to pay it over to the person whom by his will he had substituted as
his beneficiary, in place of his next of kin; this person was designated by a well
known and understood term, which the law of both countries fastens on John
Aspden, as indissolubly as if he had been especially described by name, birth,
residence and occupation."
- From all these cases we are abundantly satisfied that the law of this case is
definitely settled, both in England and this state, and we can have no hesitation
in expressing our most decided opinion that John Aspden, the heir at law of the
testator, is entitled to the whole of his estate by the fixed rules of law, which we
arc not at liberty to question."

