JANUARY TERM 1835.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS AND COMPANY OF THE BANK OF
ALEXANDRIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR v. THOMAS SWANN.
Promissory Notes. The general rule, as laid down by this court in Lenox v.
Roberts, 2 Wheat. 373,4 Cond. Rep. 163, is, that the demand of payment of a
promissory note should be made on the last day of grace; and notice of the
default of the maker be put into the post office, early enough to be sent by
the mail of the succeeding day.
The note on which the action in this case was bronght, having become due
at the Bank of Alexandria, where it was made paya9le, payment of the same
was demanded at the bank before three o'clock on that day Notice of nonpayment was put into the post office on the following day, directed to the
indorser, the defendant in error, who resided in Washington. According
to the course of the mail from Alexandria to the city of Washington, all
letters put into the mail before half-past six o'clock, P. l., at Alexandria,
would leave there some time during the night, and would be deliverable
at Washington the next day at any time after half past eight o'clock.
The defendant in error contended, that as demand of payment was made
before three o'clock, P. AT., notice of the non payment of the note should
have been put into the post office on the same day it was dishonoured, early
enough to have gone with the mail of that evening. The court held, that
the law does not require the utmost possible diligence in the holder in giving
notice of the dishonour of the note, all that is required is ordinary reasonable
diligence, and what shall constitute reasonable diligence ought to be regulated
with a view to practical convenience, and the usual course of business.
The law, generally speaking, does not regard the fractions of a day, and although the demand of payment at the banic was required to be made during
banking hours, it would be unreasonable, and against what the special verdict finds to have been the usage of the bank at that time, to require notice
of non payment to be sent to the indorser on the same day. This usage of
the bank corresponds with the rule of law on the subject.
If the time of sending notice is limited to fractions of a day, it will always
come in question how swiftly notice could be conveyed. The notice sent
by the mail, the next day after the dishonour of the note, was in due time.
The law has prescribed no particular form for such notice. The object of it
is merely to inform the mdorser of the non payment by the maker, and that
he is held liable for the payment thereof.
The note on which the suit was brought was for 1400 dollars, drawn by H. P
in favour of the defendant in error, and the notice describes itas for the sum
of 1457 dollars. In the margin of the note is set down in figures 1457 dollars, and the special verdict found that the note was discounted at the
bank, as for a note of 1457 dollars. The defendant in error was not an indorser on any other note drawn by H. P. and discounted at the bank, or
placed there for collection. By the Court. This case falls within the rule
laid down by this court in the case of Mills v. The Bank of the United States,
11 Wheat. 431, 6 Cond. Rep. 373, that every variance, however immaterial,
is not fatal to the notice. It must be such a variance as conveys no suffiVOL. IX.-E

SUPREME COURT
fBank of Alexandria v. Swann.]
cent knowledge to the party of the particular note which has been dishonoured. If it does not mislead him, if it conveys to him the real fact without
any doubt, the variance cannot be material, either to guard his rights or
avoid his responsibility. In that case, as in the one now before the court,
it appeared that there was no other note in the bank indorsed by Mills; and
this the court considered a controlling fact, to show that the indorser could
not have been misled by the variance in the date of the note, which was the
misdescription complained of.
Where it did not appear on the record that a bond had been given to the clerk
of the circuit court to prosecute the writ of error, the court continued the
case to a subsequent day of the term, to ascertain whether a bond had been
given.,

IN error to tne circuit court of the United States for the county
of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia,
This was an action in the circuit court of the county of Alexandria, instituted by the plaintiffs in error against the defendant,
on a promissory note drawn by H. Peake, and indorsed by the
defendant, payable and negotiable at the Bank of Alexandria.
The first count in the declaration sets forth the liability of
the defendant on a note for 1400 dollars, dated the 23d day of
June 1829, and payable in sixty days from the date thereof.
The declaration states, that after the time limited in the note
for the payment thereof, viz. on the 25th day of August 1829,
the note was shown and presented to'the drawer at the bank,
and payment requested of the same, which was refused, of
which notice was afterwards, on the said 25th day of August,
given to the defendant. The second count was for the sum of
1500 dollars, money laid out and expended. The defendant
pleaded non assumpsit, and on the trial of the issue the jury
found the following special verdict.
"We, of the jury, find that one Humphrey Peake, on the
14th day of March 1826, obtained, for his own accommodation,
a discount at the bank of the plaintiffs, for the sum of 1457
dollars and 60 cents, on his note for that amount, indorsed by
defendant on the day and year aforesaid, payable sixty days
after date, that the said discount was regularly continued from
that time until the 5th day of February 1828, by new notes of
the said Humphrey Peake for this same sum, indorsed by the
defendant, and discounted at the said bank, to take up the preceding notes, the sums discounted on which new notes were
regularly so applied, that on the said 5th day of February
1828, a note of the said Humphrey Peake for 1457 dollars, of
that date, payable sixty days after date to the defendant, and

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

by him indorsed, negotiable and payable at the said bank, was
there discounted towards taking up a note of the said Humphrey, indorsed by defendant, and discounted as aforesaid, for
the sum of 1457 dollars and 60 cents, which became due on the
said 5th day of February 1828, and that the discount so made
on the said note of 1457 dollars, on the said 5th of February,
was regularly continued by a series of notes of the said Humphrey, indorsed by the defendant for the said last mentioned
sum, negotiable and payable at said bank, until the 23d of
June 1829, all which discounts, so made, were applied regularly towards the discharge of the notes before discounted as
aforesaid at the said bank. We find that, on the 23d day of
June 1829, a note of the said Humphrey Peake for the sum of
1457 dollars, indorsed and discounted as aforesaid, became due
and payable at the said bank, and that, on the said 23d day
of June 1829, the note in the declaration mentioned, was, at
the instance of the said Humphrey, discounted at the said bank
as and for a note of 1457 dollars, for the purpose of taking up
the note of the said Humphrey, indorsed and discounted as
aforesaid, which became due on the said 23d of June; and that
the sum of 1441 dollars and 45 cents, the discount so made,
was applied towards that purpose that, when the said discount was made, the said note was, from reference to the
figures in the margin only, mistaken as a note for 1457 dollars.
We find that the body and signature of the said note, dated
the 23d day of June, including the date and figures in the margin, are wholly in the handwriting of the said Humphrey, and
were written by him, and that the indorsement of the name of
the defendant thereon, is in the handwriting of the defendant,
and was made by him for the purpose of having the said note
discounted at the said bank for the object before expressed, and
we find that the said note and indorsement are in the words and
figures following
"Alexandria, June 23, 1829.
"$1457.
" Sixty days after date, I promise to pay to Thomas Swann,
Esq., or order, for value received, fourteen hundred dollars
payable and negotiable at the Bank of Alexandria.
"1Hui rn. PEAKE.
"Indorsed-Tho. Swann.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank 6f Alexandria v. Swann.3

"We find that, during the whole period of time before mentioned, thatis to say, from the 5th day of February 1828, and
from thence to this day, there was no other note of the said
Humphrey, indorsed by the said defendant, discounted by the
said bank, or in the said bank for collection or otherwise. We
find that the business of the said bank always has been, and
yet is transacted at their banking house, in the town of Alexandria, and that the defendant, on the 25th day of August
1829, for a long time before, and ever since, was, and ever has
continued to be an inhabitant and resident of the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, distant about seven miles
from Alexandria. We find that, during the whole month of
August, in the year 1,829, the mail from Alexandria to the said
city of Washington, and to other towns on the main northern
route, was made up once a day; that it closed at nine o'clock,
P M., on each day, and that letters for Washington and for the
north, put in after half an hour after eight o'clock P M., were
not, in the general course of proceedings in the post office at Alexandria, sent by the niail which closed on that day, but were
post marked on the succeeding, and sent by the mail made up on
such succeeding day, and that all letters for Washington and
the north, put intq the post office at Alexandria before half past
eight o'clock P M., were post marked on the day they were so
put in, and sent by the mail which closed at nine o'clock P M.,
as before stated: that the mail for Washington and other northern towns, which was closed at Alexandria, as aforesaid, at nine
o'clock P M., was sent off from Alexandria between twelve
o'clock at night of the same day, and two o'clock in the morning
of the succeeding day, sometimes, but very rarely, leaving
Alexandria before twelve o'clock at night, as aforesaid, and
genqrally leaving that place about two o'clock in the morning
of the day succeeding the making up and closing of the mail
at Alexandria, as aforesaid.
"'We find that letters from Alexandria to Washington, sent
by mail, were, during the period aforesaid, delivered out at
Washington at any hour after eight o'clock A. M., on the day
succeeding that on.which the mail was closed at Alexandria
for that place. We find that the hours of business at the said
Bank of Alexandria, during the winter, have always been from
ten o'clock A. M. to three o'clock P M., and, during the sum-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

iner, from nine o'clock A. M. to three o'clock P M., after

which latter hour the clerks and officers left the bank, and attended no more to banking business during the day.
"We find that it is, and for a long time past, including the
year 1829, has been the usage of the Bank of Alexandria, and
other banks, in the town, to deliver out to the notary, on each
day at three o'clock, all notes and bills discounted by, or to be
paid at such banks, which have become due on such day, for
demand and protest, and for the notary to return such notes,
with the protest for non-payment to the said bank, on the
morning of the succeeding day, soon after the bank opened.
We find that, on the 25th day of August, being the third day
of grace on the note in the declaration mentioned, it was, by
Benjamin C. Ashton, teller of the said bank, and during bank
hours of that day, presented at said bank to James L. M'Kenna,
cashier of the said bank, for payment, that the said M'Kenna
examined the books of the said bank, and found that the said
Humphrey Peake had no money or funds there, and stated that
fact to the said teller, that neither the said Peake, nor any
other person appeared for him at the said bank to pay the said
note, and that before the 28th day of August 1829, the said
Peake had failed, and had left the town of Alexandria, where
he had before that time resided.
"We find that the said note having remained unpaid on the
said 25th of August 1829, it was, on the closing of the bank
on that day, taken out by the said Benjamin C. Ashton, who
was also a notary public, for protest, and was, on the morning
of the 26th of August 1829, returned to the said bank with the
protest, which was drawn up on the said 26th of August 1829,
and that the said note, in the said declaration mentioned, remained in the said bank as its property, from the said 23d day
of June 1829, until about the 30th of October, in the same
year, when it was delivered to tjieir attorney for suit, with the
exception only of the time it was in the hands of the said
Benjamin C. Ashton as notary, as aforesaid.
"We find that, on the 26th day of August 1829, and long
before the closing of the mail of that day at Alexandria, that
Benjamin C. Ashton, on behalf of the said bank, put into the
post office at Alexandria a letter written by him, addressed to
the defendant at Washington, intending by the said letter to

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

give him notice of the nonpayment of the said note, which
letter was post-marked at the post office m Alexandria, ' Alexandria, D. C., August 26,' and is in the words and figures
following"
"Alexandria, August 26, 1829.
"Sir, A note drawn by Humphrey Peake for 1457 dollars, dated Alexandria, 23d of June 1829, payable to you, or
your order, at the Bank of Alexandria, sixty days after its date,
by you indorsed, and for the payment of which you are held
liable, is protested for non payment, at the request of the President, Directors & Co. of the said bank.
"Respectfully, your obedient servant,
"BENJ. C. ASHTON, Not. Pub.
"Thomas Swann, Esq., Washington City.
"Which letter was received by the defendant in due course of
mail, on the 27th day of August 1829. We find the protest,
before referred to, in the words and figures following"
"Alexandria, June 23, 1829.
"$1457
Sixty days after date, I promise to pay to Thomas Swann,
Esq., or order, for value received, fourteen hundred dollars,
payable and negotiable at the Bank of Alexandria.
11HUmPH. PEAKE.

"Indorsed-Tho. Swann.
"United States of America, District of.Columbia, county of
Alexandria, to wit
"On the 25th day of August, in the year of our lord 1829,
at the request of the President, Directors and Company of the
Bank of Alexandria, I, Benjamin C. Ashton, a public notary
in and for the county of Alexandria, by lawful authority duly
appointed and qualified, dwelling in Alexandria, in the county
and district aforesaid, demanded payment of a note, of which
the above is a copy, of the cashier of the Bank of Alexandria,
at the said bank, and he answered that no funds were there
for its payment, and, on the 26th day of the same month, I

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

gave notice to the indorser, by mail, that the drawer of the
said note had failed to pay it.
"Whereupon, I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, did
protest, and by these presents do publicly and solemnly protest, as well against the drawer and indorser of the said note,
as against all others whom it doth or may concern, for exchange, re-exchange, and all costs, charges and interest
already incurred or to be hereafter incurred, for the want of
payment theieof."
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and
affixed my seal notarial, the day and year aforesaid.
" [L. S.]
BENJ. C. ASHTON, Notary Public.
"Protesting $1.75.
"We find that no part of the said sum of 1400 dollars, of
the note in the declaration mentioned, has been paid.
"We find that the said Bank of Alexandria kept a book
called an offering book, in which the different sums and notes
offered for discount were entered, and that this book was
always laid before the board of directors on the discount days in
the bank, and the discounts agreed to be made by the board
regularly entered in the said discount book.
"We find that the 23d day of June 1829, was one of the
regular discount days in the said bank, and on that day the
said book was laid before the board of directors, and, among
the other entries made for discount on that day, was one in the
following words and figures
"'Humphrey Peake, Thomas Swann, Humph. Peake.
"'June23, August 22, 1457, 1554, 1441,46.'
"We find that the said entry was intended to mean that the
said Humphrey Peake had offered for discount his note for
1457 dollars, indorsed by the said defendant, and payable sixty
days thereafter. We find that no note for 1457 dollars drawn
by the said Humphrey Peake, and indorsed by the said defendant, had been offered for discount to the said bank on the said
23d of June 1829, but that the note in the declaration mentioned, was on that day offered to the said bank for discount,
and for the purpose of renewing for that amount the note of
1457 dollars, then due at the said bank. We find that no
note for 1400 dollars, drawn by the said H. Peake, and in-

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

dorsed by the said defendant, was ever entered on the books
of the said bank for discount, nor is there any entry made
upon the books of the said bank, that any such note had ever
been discounted by the said bank.
"We find that, upon the offering for 1457 dollars before
stated, the board of directors agreed-to make a discount for that
sum, and the same was entered in the discount book as discounted, and the proceeds carried to the credit of the said
Humphrey Peake. We find that the said discount was intended by the board as a renewal of the note of 1457 dollars then
due to the said bank, and that the note in the declaration
mentioned, was intended to be designated in the offering book,
by the said description of a note drawn by the said Peake, and
indorsed by the defendant as a note for 1457 dollars.
"If, on the whole matter aforesaid, the law be for the plaintiffs, then we find for the plaintiffs, and assess their damages
to the sum of 1400 dollars, being the principal sum due, to
bear interest from the 26th day of August 1829, till paid,
and if the law be for the defendant, then we find for the defendant."
Upon this verdict the circuit court gave judgment for the
defendant, and the plaintiffs prosecuted a writ of error to this
court.
Mr Swann objected to the plaintiffs' proceeding in this case,
as it did not appear on the record from the circuit court that a
bond had been given to the clerk of that court to prosecute
this writ of error. The court continued the case to enable the
parties to ascertain by a reference to the clerk of the circuit
court, if a bond bad been given. On a subsequent day of the
term, a certified copy of the appeal bond was filed in this court,
and the argument in this case proceeded.
Mr Jones, for the plaintiff in error.
The first objection is to the notice of protest, that it was not
expedited by the notary from Alexandria in due tine.
The facts were, that the last day of grace expired on the
25th of August, and at the closing of the bank, on that day,
at three o'clock, P.M., the note, after having been duly presented and demanded at the bank, was given out to the notary

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

for protest, was duly protestied the same day, and on the next,
at the opening of the bank at nine o'clock, A. M., was returned by the notary into bank, under protest, and by the regular
mail of the same day (26th of August), the notice in question
was sent to the indorser in Washington. The bank, as usual,
remained closed, without having any of its officers present, or
any business transacted there, from three o'clock, P M. on the
25th, to nine o'clock, A. M. on the 26th. The daily mail,
from Alexandria to Washington, was closed at half past eight
o'clock, P M., was sent on the same evening, and opened next
morning at eight o'clock. And the precise objection is, that
the notice was not expedited by the mail that closed at half
past eight o'clock, P M., the same day the note fell due and
was protested.
It is considered to have been fully settled as the law, and this
is the known custom with all the banks in the district of Columbia, that notice of the dishonour of a note shall be given
the day after the dishonour of the note. On the strict principles of the common law, the notice could not be sent until the
following day, as, according to those, principles, the party to
the note had the whole of the day on which it became due to
pay it. The cases to show that the notice to the indorser is
properly sent on the day following the non payment, are in
Chitty on Bills 225, 330, Lenox v. Roberts, 2 Wheat. 373,
4 Cond. Rep. 163.
The second objection goes to the certainty of the letter of
notice, addressed by the notary to the indorser; which, it is
said, gave a wrong description of the note, as being one for
1457 dollars, instead of 1400 dollars, the latter sum being that
inserted in the body of the note.
In point of fact, it is found, that 1457 dollars was the true
and proper amount for which the note ought to have been
drawn, and was intended to have been drawn, and that was
the amount set down in figures on the margin of the note,
but by a mistake committed by the drawer himself, in writing
out the note, and overlooked by the officers of the bank when
it passed for discount, (and in fact discovered for the first time
when the objection was taken at the trial) the sum was written fourteen hundred, omitting thefifty-seven, in the body of the
note. The original discount, commencing in March 1826,
VOL. IX.-F

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

had been of a note for 1457 dollars and 60 cents, and run on,
by renewals of the note every sixty days, for the same amount,
till February 1828, when it was renewed and continued for
the precise amount of 1457 dollars, and so run to the time of
putting in the note now in question, which was discounted in
June 1829, as a renewal and continuation of the same standing accommodation, and "as and for a note of 1457 dollars "
which was the precise amount of the next preceding note replaced and taken up by it. The verdict expressly finds that
no note drawn by Peake and indorsed by the defendant, as a
note for 1400 dollars, was ever discounted, or offered for discount, at the said bank, but that all the entries in the bdoks
of the bank import the discount on the 23d day of June 1829,
when this note was discounted, as a note so drawn and indorsed,
for 1457 dollars, and for no other sum.
The object of the law is, that the party to the note, who is
to be held responsible, shall have substantially a notice of its
dishonour-sufficient notice to enable him to act for his own
protection. This was done. The letter from the notary accurately described the note which the defendant supposed he
had indorsed, with the exception of the amount of the same.
The parties to the note supposed it to have been given for
1457 dollars, as it was intended to renew a note due at the
bank for that sum. Cited, Mills v. The Bank of the United
States, 11 Wheaton 431, to show that no form of notice to the
indorser of a promissory note is required, if the party has, from
the notice given, sufficient knowledge of the particular note
which has been dishonoured. 6 Cond. Rep. 37a.
As to the form of the declaration, it was contended for the
plaintiffs in error, that it is not necessary to state any thing
but that a demand and refusal took place, no particulars of
the demand need be stated. Cited, Chitty on Bills 248, 252,
3 WendalPs Reports 456, 8 Cowen 424.
Mr Coxe and MIr Swann, for the defendant.
If the case was one of a demurrer to the evidence, the court
could infer every thing against the party demurrng, but it is
that of a special verdict, and no other than the facts found can
be considered by the court. The jury do not say that, substantially, notice was gwen, but that the notary intended to

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

give notice. The case of Mills v The Bank of the United
States, does not therefore apply. Cited also, 2 Johns. Cases
337.
Upon the insufficiency of the notice, as found in the special
verdict, Mr Coxe cited, I Term Rep. 167, 6 East 3, 12
Mass. 404, 14 Mass. 116, 5 Cowen 303.
1. To sustain this action the bank must show that they
were entitled to this note.
It is said they discounted it, and therefore it belonged to
them. Was it discounted I The finding upon this question
is contradictory.
The note for 1400 dollars was never offered for discount, and
acted upon by the board. The offer for discount was for 1457
dollars, and that was granted. There was no action of the
board upon any note after this.
The officers of the bank kept the note for 1400 dollars, and
considered that as the discounted note. Had they a right to
do so q It was to be sure a benefit to the indorser, but was
it in the power of the officers to do it'q Would the bank be
bound by it q If they could take a note for 1400 dollars, they
might for 100 dollars. If the bank had a right to reject this
note, the mdorser had the same right to do so. If so, it was
not a discounted note, and the bank had no right to it.
2. If it was a discounted note, the next inquiry would be
whether the notice of protest was properly given.
1. Was the note truly described ' If not, then it became
necessary to satisfy a jury that it was intended to be truly described, and that it was known by the indorser to be the sane
note. 12 Mass. Rep. 6, 2 Johns. Cases 337.
The question whether the indorser knew that the note alluded
to in the notice was the same with that produced in evidence,
was left to the jury The court say in the case in Johnson,
that it was a fact proper for the decision of the jury. In this
case the jury have not found this fact. They say that the
notary intended to refer to the note in question. But they do
not say that the indorser knew that the notice alluded to the
same note.
The knowledge of the indorser is the most material fact.
The intention of the notary is of no moment, and in this case
it is clear that lie never intended to allude to a note of 1400

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

dollars. The verdict then has not found what was necessary
to make this a good notice.
Can the court intend it Q Can the court say that the indorser knew that this notice alluded to the note of 1400 dollars I
This was decided in both the above cases to be a question for
the jury, and not the court.
2. Was the notice given in time q The court will look at
the facts found by the jury.
If the indorser had lived in Alexandria, he would have been
entitled to notice that evening. If so, was he not entitled to
have the notice put into the post office that evening I
In the case of the Bank of the United States v. Carneale, 2
Peters 551, the court say, it is difficult to lay down any universal rule as to what is due diligence in respect to notice to
indorsers. Many cases must be decided upon their own particular circumstances, however desirable it may be when practicable to lay down a general rule. In Lenox v. Roberts, 2
Wheat. 373, the court say, that the demand should be made
on the last day of grace, and the notice of default put into the
post office early enough to be sent by the mail of the succeeding day. This opinion was founded upon the special facts of
that case.
What would be the next mail in this case'l
This notice then upon these grounds seems to be defective.
Upon this view of the case, judgment cannot be rendered for the
bank.
Now let us look at the declaration. It counts upon a note,
negotiable and payable at the Bank of Alexandria on the 25th
day of August. To charge an indorser upon such a note, a demand must be made at the Bank of Alexandria on the day of
payment, within the banking hours. 2 Peters 549. The declaration then must state a demand at the time limited for the
payment. The demand by a holder may be made at any time
within the banking hours. If the bank possesses the paper,
this demand will be considered to have been made by showing
that the paper was there, so that a demand, or. that which
amounts to a demand, must be shown in the declaration.
How then does this declaration stand I The demand is alleged
to have been made at the bank upon Peake, after the expiration of the time of payment. It may have been at four, six,
eight or ten o'clock.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandna v. Siyann.]

Of what avail is a demand upon Peake any where 2

Of

what avail is a demand at the bank after the banking hours q
The declaration then is defective, and the defect not cured by
the verdict. Cited, Slacum v. Pomery, 6 Cranch 221, 2 Cond.
Rep. 351, Rushton v. Aspinall, Douglass 679. But if not
defective, the proof does not support it.
Mr Justice THoMPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought in the.circuit court of the district of
Columbia, for the county of Alexandria, upon a promissory
note made by Humphrey Peake, and indorsed by the defendant
in error. Upon the trial the jury found a special verdict, upon
which the court gave judgment for the defendant, and the
case comes here upon a writ of error.
The points upon which the decision of the case turns, resolve themselves into two questions.
1. Whether notice of the dishonour of the note was given
to the indorser in due time '2
2. Whether such notice contained the requisite certainty
in the description of the notel'
The note bears date on the 23d day of June 1829, and is for
the sum of 1400 dollars, payable sixty days after date at the
Bank of Alexandria. The last day of grace expired on the
25th of August, and on that day the note was duly presented,
and demand of payment made at the bank, and protested for
non payment, and on the next day notice thereof was sent by
mail to the indorser, who resided in the city of Washington.
The general rule, as laid down by this court in Lenox v.
Roberts, 2 Wheat. 373, 4 Cond. Rep. 163, is, that the demand of
payment should be made on the last day of grace, and notice of
the default of the maker be put into the post office early enough
tobe sent by the mail of the succeeding day. The special verdict
in the present case finds, that according to the course of the mail
from Alexandria to the cityof Washington, all letters putinto the
mail before half past eight o'clock, P M. at Alexandria, would
leave there some time during that night, and would be deliverable atWashington the next day, at any time after eight o'clock,
A. M., and it is argued on the part of the defendant in error,
that as demand of payment was made before three o'clock,
P M., notice of the non payment of the note should have been
put into the post office on the same day it was dishonoured,

SUPREME COURT
[Ban

of Alexandria v. Swann.]

early enough to have gone with the mail of that evening. The
law does not require the utmost possible diligence m the holder
in giving notice of the dishonour of the note, all that is required
is ordinary reasonable diligence, and what shall constitute reasonable diligence ought to be regulated with a view to practical convenience, and the usual course of business. In the case
of the Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, 1 Peters 583, it is said
by this court to be well settled at this day, that when the facts
are ascertained, and are undisputed, what shall constitute due
diligence is a question of law that this is best calculated for
the establishment of fixed and uniform rules on the subject,
and is highly important for the safety of holders of commercial
paper. The law, generally speaking, does not regard the
fractions of a day, and although the demand of payment at the
bank was required to be made dunng banking hours, it would
be unreasonable, and against what the special verdict finds to
have been the usage of the bank at that time, to require notice
of non payment to be sent to the indorser on the same day
This usage of the bank corresponds with the rule of law on the
subject. If the time of sending the notice is limited to a fractional part of a day, it is well observed by chief justice Hosmer,
in the case of the Hartford Bank v. Stedman and Gordon, 3
Conn. Rep. 495, that it will always come to a question, bow
swiftly the notice can be conveyed. We think, therefore, that
the notice sent by the mail, the next day after the dishonour of
the note, was in due time.
The next question is, whether, in the notice sent to the mdorser, the dishonouxed note is described with sufficient certainty.
The law has prescribed no particular form for such notice.
The object of it is meiely to infoim the indorser of the non payment by the maker, and that he is held liable for the payment
thereof.
The misdescription complained of in this case, is in the
amount of the note. The note is for 1400 dollars, and the notice describes it as for the sum of 1457 dollars. In all other
respects the description is correct. and in the margin of the
note is set down in figures 1457, and the special verdict finds
that the note in question was discounted at the bank, as and
for a note of 1457 dollars; and the question is, whether this

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Alexandria v. Swann.]

was such a variance or misdescription as might reasonably
mislead the indorser as to the note, for payment of which he
was held responsible. If the defendant had been an indorser
of a number of notes for Humphrey Peake, there might be
some plausible grounds for contending that this variance was
calculated to mislead him. But the special verdict finds that
from the 5th day of February 1828 (the date of a note for
which the one now in question was a renewal), down to the
day of the trial of this cause, there was no other note of the
said Humphrey Peake indorsed by the defendant, discounted
by the bank, or placed in the bank for collection or otherwise.
There was, therefore, no room for any mistake by the indorser
as to the identity of the note. The case falls within the rule
laid down by this court in the case of Mills v. The Bank of
the United States, 11 Wheat. 376, that every variance, however immaterial, is not fatal to the notice. It must be such a
variance as conveys no sufficient knowledge to the party of the
particular note which has been dishonoured. If it does not
mislead him, if it conveys to hun the real fact without any
doubt, the variance cannot be material, either to guard his rights
or avoid his responsibility. In that case, as in the one now
before the court, it appeared that there was no other note in
the bank indorsed by Mills, and this the court considered a
controlling fact, to show that the indorser could not have been
misled by the variance in the date of the note, which was the
misdescription then complained of.
The judgment of the circuit court is accordingly reversed,
and the cause sent back with directions to enter judgment for
the plaintiffs, upon the special verdict found by the jury.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the. district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby sent
back to the said circuit court, with directions to that court to
enter judgment for the plaintiffs, upon the special verdict found
by the jury.

