SUPREME COURT.

JOHN COULSON, APPELLANT V. JAMES WALTON AND OTHERS.
Tennessee. A bond was executed in 1787 by which the obligor bound himself to pay 100 pounds for a horse, or to make over to the obligee his interest in a certain entry and warrant of land, and if the deed or grant for
the land should issue to him, to transfer the land by deed, and to warrant
and defend the said deed. The obligor elected to pay the bond by giving
the land for the same. He made no valid conveyance of the land in his
life time, but it was taken possession of by the obligee and has ever since
been occupied under the title so acquired by the obligee. After the son and
sole heir of the obligor came of age, he commenced an action of ejectment
for the land, and those who claimed title under the obligee filed a bill for
an injunction, and that the defendant, the plaintiff in the ejectment, be decreed to convey the land according to the stipulations in the bond. This bill
was filed in 1822.
The court said, in considering the question as to the genuineness of the bond
on which this controversy is founded, the first important fact that occurs to
the mind is, the remoteness of the transaction. Nearly half a century has
elapsed since this instrument purports to have been executed. The obligor
and the obligee, and both the witnesses are dead. The contract belongs to
the past age. It was executed, if at all, when the country was new and
unsettled, and the parties to it seem to have been.illiterate men, and unacquainted with business transactions. These circumstances are referred to,
not to show that this bond should be received without proof, but to show
that as strict proof should not be required of its execution, as if it were of
recent date. The law makes some allowance for the frailties of memory,
and where a great length of time has elapsed since the signing of an instrument attempted to be proved, circumstances are viewed as having an important bearing upon the question.
The case of Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheaton 231, 4 Condensed Reports 426, cited.
Construction of the statutes of limitations of North Carolina of 1815 and 1819.
Statutes of limitations are applied by courts of equity, in all cases where at
law they might be pleaded. At law, to make the statute a bar, there must
be an adverse possession, and by analogy a court of equity, in a similar case,
will hold the statute to be a good bar.
But the statute insisted on as a bar in this case, does not depend upon possession. It bars a creditor who does not sue the heir within seven years,
There can be no doubt that the statute applies, where a creditor seeks to
make the heir liable for the debt of his ancestor, on the ground that either
personal or real property descended to him. And this appears to be the decision of the supreme court of Tennessee on the statute. There is nothing
in their decisions referred to, which show that they have given effect to
the statute beyond this. By the statute of 1819, which is wholly different
in its language from the act of 1815, a bar is created, indiscriminately, to suits
in equity, as well as at law. The statutes do not apply to this case.
The instruments under which a part of the complainants set up an equity de-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]
rived from the heirs of the obligor, are proved, but they cannot be sanctioned by this court, except where such instruments were executed by the
heirs of full age. It is the duty of the court to protect the interests of
minors, and the decree of the circuit court in this respect, as well as in every
other, is correct.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of West Tennessee.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court. It was
argued by Mr Bell, for the appellant, and by Mr Key, for the
appellee.
For the appellant it was contended, that, stripped of circumstances, the case is, that Payne held a title bond on Coulson,
for six hundred and forty acres of land, dated in 1787.
In 1791, Isaac Coulson the obligee died, leaving John Coulson, the appellant, his heir. This bill was filed for a specific
decree, in 1822, more than thirty years after the ancestor's
death. To the bill, John Coulson, the heir, pleaded in bar the
act of limitations of 1715, oh. 48, see. 9, declaring, "that creditors of any person deceased, shall make their claim within
seven years after the death of such debtor, otherwise such
creditor shall be for ever barred."
Itis insisted by the appellees, that the word creditor does not
embrace Payne seeking the lands, but would, were he seeking damages. Had Payne attempted to enforce the bond at
law against Coulson's administratrix, and to recover damages,
the act of 1715 would have barred him. 3 Yerg. 9.
So, if the administratrix had been sued, had pleaded "fully
administered," the damages had been found against her, but the
plea for her then a scire facias had been run to subject the
lands in the hands of the heir, he could have pleaded the act.
Mart. and Yerg. 360.
This is the only mode by which the heir can be reached in
the state of Tennessee. The personal estate must be shown
to have been exhausted, by the finding of the plea of "fully administered ;" and it can be shown in no other form. Mart. and
Yerg. 360, 1 Yerg. 40, 287.
In 1801, oh. 6, the courts of equity of Tennessee were

SUPREME COURT
rCoulson v. Walton and others-]

authorised to divest titles to lands by decrees, and enforce
specific performance in this manner. Ever since, the common
mode of enforcing contracts for lands, has been by specific
decree against the obligor, or his heir.
In the same year, 1801, ch. 25, the statute of frauds was
enacted, requiring agreements for lands to be in-writing, and
to be signed by the party to be charged therewith. The form
of contract has almost uniformly been a title bond. Whether
the obligee to such bond was a creditor, and his claim subject
to be barred by the act of 1715, soon became a most important
question, one of the most important, involving the protection
of heirs by the lapse of time, presented to the courts of chancery
In 1809, the supreme court of Tennessee was established,
consisting then of two judges, and having conferred upon ,it
original chancery jurisdiction. In 1813, the court consisted of
Hugh L. White and John Overton, men, eminent in the distinguished class of ejetment lawyers of that day, who had the
public confidence in a high degree, and especially in matters
affecting titles to lands. What they settled by a concurrence
of opinion, has not been questioned in the state courts of Tennessee, up to this time. This is asserted with a knowledge of
its truth, that challenges contradiction. Before this court was
brought the cause of Smith v. Hickman's Heirs, in 1813, a
bill for a specific decree on a title bond. The title bond had
been executed by Edwin Hickman, in 1789. The report,
Cooke 330, shows it to have been a naked case. The act of
1715, ch. 48, sec. 9, was pleaded in bar, that the suit had not
been brought within seven years after the ancestor's death.
And on the most mature consideration, the court decided,
judge Overton delivering the written opinion-,' that it has
been insisted that the complainant is not a creditor, on account of the demand not being of a pecuniary nature, but, as
it is the duty of this court to examine this point, they feel satisfied that, as to that, he is within the act. All persons are considered creditors, that have demands originating from contracts
or agreements." The next year, 1814, Lewis v. Hickman's
Heirs, came before the same judges, 2 Tenn. Rep. 317, when
judge White delivered the opinion of the court to the same

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

effect. These decisions have been followed in ther state courts,
with entire confidence of their correctness ever since. Cases
in confirmation cannot be adduced, as no lawyer would present
such a case but to show the sense of the supreme court on
the subject so late as 1832, a year after the cause before the
court was decided below, we quote a passage from the opinion
of the chief justice in Hooper v. Bryant, 3 Yerg. 9.
"In 1814, the cause of Lewis v. Hickman, 2 Tenn. Rep.
317, involved the question whether an heir or an administrator could defend himself by the plea of seven years, under the
act of 1715, ch. 48, see. 9. To a bill to enforce a title bond,
Edwin Hickman's heirs and his administrator, relied upon
the act of 1715, ch. 48, sec. 9, as a bar The c~urt went
into an examination whether the act of 1715 was in force, it
being insisted that the act of 1789, ch. 23, had repealed it.
The court decided .that both the acts were in force, and barred
the complainant. This was the only point made in the cause
by the record, and has been followed ever since."
And in delivering the opinion of the court, in Peck v
Wheaton's Heirs, Martin and Yerger's Rep. 360, it is holden
"We are moreover of opinion that the act of 1715, ch. 48, see.
9, of seven years, will operate as a bar, and that that act is in
force we consider one of the best established positions litigated
in our courts;" and Peck's claim was pronounced barred, in
accordance to the decisions of 1813 and 1814.
But the federal circuit court disregarded these decisions, for
the reason in Smith's cause, that no particular tract of land was
designated by the bond sued on, and no lien created, and therefore the demand was in effect for damages.
There is no such idea contained in the report of the case.
The contract was made at a time, 1787, when no statute
of frauds existed, or any writing was required, and when
proof could have been introduced to show the tract of land
intended to be conveyed. The courts of Tennessee, the legal
profession, and the country, have not now, or have they ever
had an idea, that the bond formed no lien and was not
obligatory on Hickman's Heirs. The distinguished counsel
who argued the cause, and the court so admitted a new
generation has grown up under the impression, governed by
VOL. IX.-I

SUPREME COURT.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

the report of the case, and as was holden by the supreme
court of Tennessee in Hooper v. Bryant, 3 Yerg. 9, it is now
too late to correct the error, if even error there be. It is the
pride and pleasure of the courts of Tennessee, to follow and
abide by the decisions of the supreme court of the United
States when construing the laws of the union, as they have
done us the honour of conforming to our decisions on our local
statutes, especially the seven years act protecting possessions
and we earnestly insist, decisions of twenty years standing,
whether made in mistake of the fact or the law, cannot now be
overthrown without great and manifest danger to our titles,
without letting in upon our country evils little foreseen at this
distance from it, and by strangers to it. If parol agreements
for lands, for warrants, and for locating, made previous to 1801,
are let in against the heir, and the agreements are enforced
in the federal courts, the litigation to enforce them may be appalling, especially in the western part of our state.
The only objection made to the decision of Lewis v. Hickman in the court below, was that it did not appear whether the
bill was filed to recover the land, or for damages.
In the state of Tennessee the heir cannot be sued for damages in any kind of proceeding. There is no direct mode in
which he can be sued but for a specific decree to divest title.
Further no suit for damages is ever prosecuted with us in
equity. There is no such jurisdiction.
It is idle to conceal it if the decree below is affirmed, the
two causes against Hickman's Heirs will be flatly overruled.
But some stress has'been laid upon a loose and obscure expression of judge Haywood in Hagsard v. Mayfield. 5 Haywood 121. It was an action of ejectment. Mayfield died.
His wife administered. A title bond was produced, and she,
under the statute of Tennessee, made a deed, but not for the
land described in the bond. The heir sued for the land, and
the deed was declared void. The act of limitations of 1715,
ch. 48, could not have, and did not have the remotest bearing
on the cause. It is not possible to introduce it in the action of
ejectment. But those acquainted with the legal ideas of that
distingushed common lawyer, judge Haywood, well know
what he meant. He was prosecuting a favourite theory, that

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

equitable titles were not barred by the acts of limitation. That
neither an entry or title bond was operated on by any statute,
because courts of equity were not bound, and the remedy was
open. And if the honourable court is curious to understand
the paragraph referred to, and to see the plausibility that genius
can confer upon error, they will read judge Haywood's dissenting opinion in Gaither and Frost's case, 3 Yerg. 208, but fearing our client's cause will be endangered from its masterly
ability, we must insist, the court read the concurrent opinion,
preceding, of the three other judges, overruling judge Haywood's, and which declares equitable titles equally with legal,
subject to be barred.
The heir must be at repose some time, so that be may say
of his fireside-this is mine. We, of Tennessee, afford the same
protection, by the act of limitations of 1819 to all others we
declare that no suit in equity shall be brought, bad or prosecuted but within seven years next after the cause of action
come, accrued, or fallen, and all claims not sued within said
seven years, shall be for ever barred. The courts have enforced
the act to the letter. Dunlap v. Gibbs and M'NaiT, 4 Yerg.
The same act bars the ejectment in seven years, so that all
stand on the same foot with the heir. The state of our titles
originating in land warrants, required the protection, and the
hundred thousand people drawn to our western district within
the last ten years, and their almost entire exemption from litigation, bespeak the wisdom of our seven years policy, which
we hope this honourable court will not disturb.
We apprehend it most difficult for the court to give specific
relief on a title bond of thirty-four years standing, when sued
upon, with the supposed obligor's name erased from it, after
the death of the obligor, obligee and the witnesses, with the
proof that no claim was set up under it by the obligee in his
lifetime, he averring no writing existed between him and Isaac
Coulson: But this rests on facts, which we feel it our duty to
leave with the court.
Mr Key, in reply.
The facts show a possession of the land in controversy on
the part of the appellee and those under whom he claims, since

SUPREME COURT.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

1788. It was held under an agreement dated in 1787, to convey the title, if 100 pounds was not paid within the year.
The money was not paid, and the obligee held the land
till the death of the obligor in 1791, and after his death till
ejectment was brought by his heir at law in 1814. On the
recovery in ejeotment the bill was filed to enjoin the issuing of
a writ of possession and for relief, and the question is (and it
seems to be now the only one insisted on in behalf of the appellant), is the statute of limitations a bar to the relief sought
by the bill
It is contended by the appellant, in the argument now submitted to the court, that this is settled by the Tennessee courts.
Smith v. Hickman, Cooke 330, is the first case relied on.
All that this case proves (the bond being for no specific land)
is, that a party having a bond for so much land may be considered a creditor under certain circumstances, within the meaning
of the statute of limitations. The observations of the court
below on this case require nothing further to be said as to the
effect of this decision.
The case of Hooper v. Bryant, 3 Yerg. 1, has been mentioned. There is not a word in the opinion of the court touching the question, but the argument of the counsel in favour of
the application of the statute to that case, pages 5, 6, very
clearly shows that no such doctrine as the appellant contends
for, is considered as settled in the courts of Tennessee. Thus
he says "it is admitted that the act of limitations cannot be
pleaded to an express and subsisting trust, as between trustees
and cestut que trust. This rule only operates so long as the
trust subsists between the parties."
"When a trustee, who has trust property in his possession,
dies, the trust is no longer a subsisting one but if the trust
property be specific or capable of being identified, &c., then it
would not be assets in the hands of the executors, and the cestur que trust may follow it in the hands of the executor, and
the act of limitations could not be pleaded where the trust property in specie is sought to be recovered. But if it is not specific, and therefore cannot be identified and followed, &c., it is
then assets, &c. The cestui que trust in such cases becomes
a general creditor," &c., page 7. "Where it is not capable of

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

being identified, as the cestm que trust is then only a creditor,
his claim, like that of all other creditors, will be barred, unless
prosecuted within the time limited by law."
This argument is in accordance with Smith v. Hickman,
and shows the distinction between that case and this. Here
the claim is for specific trust property, and therefore cestut que
trust is not a creditor and the statute does not apply.
The next case relied on is Lewis v. Hickman, 2 Tenn. Rep.
317. The court below in their opinion have explained this
case. There the land could not be had, it was held adversely;
the bond had been given up for a defective deed, and the object of the bill was to set up the bond and relieve the plaintiff.
It was therefore a claim for money; it was all the holder of the
bond could get. It does not appear in the case that the obligor ever got a patent, or had the legal title to the land. It was
not therefore, as here, the case of a party in possession, claiming the protection of equity against the legal title of the obligor.
Peck v, Wheaton's Heirs, Mart. and Yerg. 360, is cited.
There the claim was plainly for a debt, and no doubt the
statute was a bar.
3 Yerg. 208, is also mentioned, but seems to have no application to the question.
The case of Hagsard v Mayfield, 5 Hay. 121, is not correctly understood by appellant. The heir was the defendant,
not the plaintiff in the ejectment, and thejudge decides against
the legal title of the plaintiff, but admits his claim in equity,
as not barred by the statute.
To show conclusively that no such doctrine as is contended
for by appellant, is recognized in the Tennessee courts, the
court is referred to the case of Cocke and Jack v. Maginnis,
Mart, and Yerg. Rep. 361. It is there said, page 363, by the
court, that " the true rule is, that courts of equity will apply the
statute of limitations to all cases, unless it be such as are predicated upon a naked trust, in which courts of equity alone have
jurisdiction, and of which courts of law have no cognizance."
Is not this precisely such a case as the court here excepts from
the operation of the statute I Payne is in possession of the land
under the agreement for the legal title, and the heir at law
has only the naked legal title, and this he held in trust for

SUPREME COURT.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.

him who had the possession and the right to demand the legal
title, no court of law could have cognizance of such a case.
What remedy at law could Payne have I What could he claim
as a creditor Q The holding the legal title (Payne being in
possession) could not be adverse so as to put him on making a
claim upon the trustee, within the time limited by the statute,
as long as the trustee suffered him to be in possession, it was a
recognition of a subsisting trust.
The court is also referred to Armstrong's Heirs v. Campbell,
3 Yerg. 201. The marginal note at the head of the case,
shows the points decided, and the opinion of the court, in pages
231 and 237, shows that such a trust as this is not barred by
the statute.
In truth, the statute of limitations is attempted to be used in
this case not to protect, but to disturb a long continued possession, the heir at law wields it, not to protect hs firesnde, but to
invade another's. With a naked legal title, he seeks to dispossess the party who has been allowed to hold possession
under an agreement for a title, that allowed possession, confessing the right of the possessor, and when equity is invoked
to prevent this injustice, he objects that the cestui que trust is
barred by the trustee's acquiescing in his possession, and delaying to question his right. It is not easy to conceive how the
rejection of such a plea will overrule any doctrine of the courts
of Tennessee, or disturb the repose of the possessors of lands.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought before this court by an appeal from the
decree of the circuit court for ihe western district of Tennessee.
In their bill the complainants state, that on the 22d of February 1785, a certain entry in the land office of North Carolina
was made by Isaac Coulson, assignee of David Welles, for six
hundred and forty acres of land, and that afterwards, on the
2d of January 1787, he executed a bond to one Josiah Payne,
for the conveyance of said tract of land, agreeably to the terms
therein expressed, to wit "Know all men by these presents,
that I, Isaac Coulson, of the state of North Carolina and
county of Davidson, do oblige myself, my heirs and assigns, to
pay to Josiah Payne one hundred pounds in Virginia currency,
in payment for a certain bay stud horse I bought of him, within

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

twelve months from the date hereof, with lawful interest, otherwise, in lieu thereof, I do oblige myself to make over all my
right and interest of a certain entry and warrant of land of six
hundred and forty acres, lying on the north side of Cumberland
river, on said river, about one or two miles above the mouth of
the Caney fork, unto the said Josiah Payne, of the county and
state aforesaid, or his heirs and assigns. And if a deed or grant
should issue to me, before said entry or warrant should be transferred from me to said Payne, then, and in that case, I do
hereby oblige myself to make a transfer deed of all my right,
title and interest of the aforesaid land, unto the aforesaid Josiah
Payne or his assigns, which deed and right, when made, is to
be taken in full payment for the one hundred pounds and interest, and I do hereby oblige myself to warrant and defend said
deed from me, my heirs and assigns, for ever, unto the said
Payne and his heirs." Which bond purports to have been
signed and sealed by the said Isaac Coulsoni and witnessed by
James Donelson and William Bush.
The complainants further state, that the obligor elected to
pay the said sum of one hundred pounds, by giving the land as
expressed in the above recited bond, which mode of payment
was assented to by the said Payne. That said Isaac Coulson
died intestate sometime in the year 1791, leaving the defendant his only heir at law That a grant was issued for the land
on the 15th of September 1787, but no valid conveyance
was made to the said Payne fQr the land, although in his lifetime various means were tried to obtain a title. That possession was taken of the land in 1799 or 1800, and that it has been
occupied ever since under the title of Payne, and that the
taxes have been paid. That since the defendant has arrived
at full age he commenced an action of ejectment, and recovered
a judgment for the land, and the complainants pray an injunction, and that the defendant may be decreed to convey all
his interest inthe premises to the complainants.
In his answer the defendant denies that the bond set forth
in the complainants' bill, was ever executed by his father, Isaac
Coulson, and states that it is a forgery, and he denies the
other material allegations in the bill.
In considering the question as to the genuineness of the bond
on which this controversy is founded, the first important fact

SUPREME COURT.
tCoulson v. Walton and others.]

that occurs to the mind is, the remoteness of the transaction.
Nearly half a century has elapsed since this instrument purports to have been executed. The obligor and the obligee, and
both the witnesses are dead. The contract belongs to the past
age. It was executed, if at all, when the country was new
and unsettled, and the parties to it seem to have been illiterate
men, and unacquainted with business transactions.
These circumstances are referred to, not to show that this
bond should be received without proof, but to show, that as
strict proof should not be required of its execution, as if it were
of recent date. The law makes some allowance for the frailties of memory, and where a great length of time has elapsed
since the signing of an instrument attempted to be proved, circumstances are viewed as having an important bearing upon
the question.
In the case of Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 231, this court de"Tided, "that where a deed is more than thirty years old, and
is proved to have been in the possession of the lessors of the
plaintiff in ejectment, and actually asserted by them as the
ground of their title in a chancery suit, it is, in the language
of the books, sufficiently accounted for, and it is admissible in
evidence without regular proof of its execution by the subscribing witnesses."
There is no proof of the handwriting of James Donelson, one
of the subscribing witnesses to this bond, but it is proved that
he was supposed to have been killed by the Indians many years
ago.
The handwriting of Bush, the other subscribing witness, is
proved by three of his sons, who were well acquainted with
his hand, one of them having administered on his estate.
These witnesses, and especially two of them, speak with great
confidence, not only as to the signature of their father, but they
say that the body of the bond appears to have been written by
him. And they state, that although at the time the bond bears
date, and for some years before and afterwards, until his death,
their father lived in Clark county, Kentucky, yet he was absent
the greater part of his time on hunting expeditions; and they
understood that he was several times in the western part of
Tennessee. It appeared that their father understood survey-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

Ing, was a pretty good scribe, and was frequently called on to
write deeds and other instruments.
Three witnesses testify to the original contract, and the circumstances which led to it. Payne sold to Coulson a valuable
horse, for which he agreed to pay one hundred pounds. Sometime afterwards, Coulson, finding the horse did not suit his
purpose, induced Payne, as his agent, to sell him, which was
done, for the tract of land now in controversy. It was after
this sale, as these witnesses say, that they understood a bond
was executed, by which Coulson was bound to pay to Payne
one hundred pounds, or convey the land to him in lieu of the
money. Two witnesses state, that in addition to the land,
Coulson agreed to pay Payne 50 dollars, in a horse.
George Cumming, and the sister of Josiah Payne were
acquainted with William Bush, and the latter was also acquainted with the other witness, James Donelson.
Sometime after the date of the bond, Coulson, it is proved,
went to Virginia under the expectation of obtaining money to
pay off the bond, from the estate of his father but he found
that the estate had been wasted, and being disappointed in
raising the money, he remained in Virginia, married, and afterwards died in 1791. In the year 1793 Payne went to Virginia,
and obtained from the widow of Coulson a bond, in a penalty,
dated the 6th of November 1793, with a condition to convey
all her interest in the land in dispute, and she authorized Payne
to take possession of it. This bond was executed by the
widow, on the advice of Jacob Coulson, her brother-in-law, that
it was best to discharge the claim by the conveyance of the
land.
An attempt was made to obtain a conveyance under the
sanction of a county couit in Virginia, and Mrs Coulson attended the court for that purpose, but the decision was, that
it had no power to act on the subject.
At another time Payne made application to the widow, and
said. he ought to have something, as he should have to wait
until the children became of age, and she let him have a horse
worth fifteen pounds.
In 1797 or 1798, it appears a man by the name of Johns was
sent to Virginia for this title, and was informed by Payne that
he would probably find it ready for him. At this time, Mrs
VOL. IX.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

Coulson, Jacob Coulson and Benjamin Johns, went to the court
in Grayson county, Virginia, and were three days in attendance
on it, endeavouring to procure a title for the land, but failed.
Payne had then sold a part of this land to Johns, but as no
deed could be obtained, Johns was unwilling to take the land,
and he exchanged it with Walton, who in 1799 or 1800 took
possession of a part of the tract, and has ever since held it by
himself and his heirs. At a subsequent period he made other
purchases of the tract. It was known as Payne's land, from
the time Johns went to Virginia for a title.
Payne died in 1805, and his heirs endeavoured to obtain a
title by permitting the land to be sold for taxes, in 1806, and
they became the purchasers. Shortly after this sale, George
Payne, son and administrator of Josiah Payne, went to Grayson
county, Virginia, and procured a release of all claim to the land
from the representatives of Coulson, and in which they stipulated not to redeem the land, under the sale for taxes. This
instrument has been lost. George Payne was drowned a few
years after the writing was obtained by him.
These are the material facts and circumstances relied on by
the complainants, to prove the execution of the bond, and to lay
the foundation to the equitable relief prayed for in the bill.
A great number of depositions were read by the defendant's
counsel, to rebut the facts proved by the complainants, and
show that they are not entitled to relief.
Six witnesses state that they were acquainted with William
Bush, and several of them with James Donelson. That they
both came from the Indian nation, and were supposed to be
tones and refugees. That Bush was a dissipated man, was
occasionally deranged, and incapable of business. That he
had a brother named Abner, who was a man of good capacity,
and of respectable character that they were both hunters, and
werewell acquainted with the water courses falling into the
Mississippi river, south of the Tennessee.
Donelson and William Bush were reported to have been
killed by the Indians in years 1786 or 1787.
The depositions of three witnesses were read by the defendant, who were well acquainted with William Bush in Clark
county, Kentucky, and who from their intimacy with him and
the short distance they lived from him, about the time the bond

JANUARY TERM 1835.
(Coulson v. Walton and others.]

bears date, seem to think he codild not have been absent from
home at that time.
And it is proved by Jeremiah Coulson, brother of Israel, that
when Payne was in Virginia, a conversation took place between
him, the witness and Jacob Coulson, at which time Payne said
he had no obligation or any instrument of writing from Isaac
Coulson, respecting the land in dispute. And that Payne also
said he was to receive from Coulson a negro boy, under twelve
years old, in discharge of the debt, and at the same time he
agreed to pay the taxes on said land, and take care of it for the
children of said Coulson, and the witness was called on specially to remember the agreement. At this time Payne received
a horse of Mrs Coulson worth 50 dollars, in part payment of
the claim.
The first inquiry which naturally arises in the mind on reading the whole evidence is, whether it may not be reconciled.
Some parts of it, and especially those parts which relate to the
subscribing witness, William Bush, would seem to conflict,
but this is susceptible of a most satisfactory explanation.
There can be no doubt from the facts stated by the witnesses,
that there were two persons who bore the name of William
Bush, and who were occasionally in the western part of Tennessee, about the same time. One of them, the Kentucky
Bush, was a respectable man, a deacon in the Baptist church,
a surveyor, wrote a good hand, and he died in Clark county,
Kentucky, about the year 1816. The other was believed to
have come from the Indians, was an ignorant, dissipated man,
incapable of business, accustomed to hunting in the country
south of the Tennessee river, and was reported to have been
killed by the Indians in 1786 or 1787. He had a brother named
Abner, who is proved to have been in no way connected with
the Kentucky Bush.
The mere statement of these facts is enough to convince
every one, that the different witnesses, in describing the character, capacity for business, pursuits, residence and death of
William Bush, could not have referred to the same person.
Even the witnesses examined by the defendant, in proving the
residence and death of the Kentucky Bush, proved enough to
show that he could not have been the same person who was
believed to have been a refugee and tory, and was suspected

SUPREME COURT.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

of attacking boats on the Mississippi river, in connexion with
other persons, and of committing other depredations upon
society
The fact that there were two persons of the name of William Bush, may be safely assumed, and the question arises
whether the signature of the Kentucky Bush, as a subscribing
witness to the bond, is satisfactorily proved.
Some doubt is attempted to be raised as to this fact, from
the statements of the witnesses who lived in the immediate
neighbourhood of Bush, and who have no recollection of his
having been absent from home about the time the bond bears
date.
But this evidence, at best, is of a negative character, and
depends upon the memory of witnesses, for a great number of
years, of a fact not calculated to make any impression on the
mind. No circumstances are related by the witnesses which
were calculated to impress upon their memories, the absence
of William Bush, in January 1787. What prudent person, in
the abseuce of such circumstances, would undertake to state,
positively, that his nearest neighbour was absent from home
any given month, some twenty-five or thirty years before.
But the complainants have proved by the three sons of Bush
and his widow, that he was from home hunting the greater
part of his time, and some of them say that from his conversations and several facts, they believe he often visited Western
Tennessee. And more than one witness, who lived in the
neighbourhood of Josiah Payne, became acquainted with Bush
in his expeditions to Tennessee.
From these facts it would seem, that no presumption against
the due execution of the bond can arise, from the statement of
the witnesses who were the neighbours of Bush and who
could not recollect of his having been absent from home about
the time the bond is dated.
But how can the admissions of Payne, in the presence of
Jeremiah and Jacob Coulson, that he held no instrument of
writing on Isaac Coulson for the land in dispute, and that he
had agreed to receive a negro boy in discharge of the claim,
be explained, and also his agreement to pay the taxes on the
land, and take care of it foi the heirs of Coulsonq And what

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

answer can be given, to his having received a horse worth 50
dollars, in part payment of the claim '
Tkie payment of the horse seems to have been in pursuance
of the original agreement. Two of the witnesses state that
Coulson, In addition to the land, was to give Payne a horse
worth 50 dollars. And it is not improbable, if the remarks
were made by Payne as stated by Jeremiah Coulson, that he
held no written contract from Isaac Coulson, they must have
referred to the fact, of there being no writing respecting the
payment of this horse.
That he agreed to pay the taxes, and preserve the land for
the heirs of Coulson, is disproved by the fact, that either then
or sometime before, Payne procured a bond from Mrs Coulson
for the land. The language of this bond cannot be mistaken,
and it goes to show, that instead of abandoning the land and
agreeing to pay the taxes for the heirs of Coulson, he was determined to perfect his claim to it, by the use of such means as
he could resort to. By the statement of Mrs Coulson, it appears Payne complained that he should have to wait for a
title, until her children became of age. This fact, as well as
the deed and the whole course of conduct of Payne, show, that
he could not have made the remarks and agreement, as stated
by Jeremiah Coulson.
From this view of the evidence, which has a bearing upon
the fact of the contract and the execution of the bond, the
proof is as clear and as satisfactory as could be reasonably expected, after the lapse of so many years.
The hand writing of Bush is proved by the positive testimony of three witnesses, and the consideration of the bond is
clearly proved by three other witnesses, all of whom stand
without any impeachment of their credit. Conclusive as these
facts would seem to be, as to the genuineness of the bond and
the consideration on which it was given, there are others
equally conclusive.
If no contract between Coulson and Payne had been irade,
what could have induced the latter to visit Virginia in 1793,
and how can the conduct of Mrs Coulson, in executing a bond
to convey all her right in the land, with the advice of her
brother-in-law, Jacob Coulson, be accounted for. This was
about five years after the money was to have been paid, or the

SUPREME COURT
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

land conveyed. The circumstances were then known to the
parties, and no objection seems to have been made either by
Mrs Coulson, or the connexions of her deceased husband, to
the claim set up by Payne. So far from any objections being
made, every thing was done, both by Mrs Coulson and her
friends, which they could do, to vest the title for this land in
Payne. They applied to the court, and remained in attendance upon it for three days, at one time, under the hope of
obtaining the necessary authority to execute the conveyance.
And Payne complained of the hardship of being compelled to
wait for a title, until the heirs of Coulson became of age.
These are facts established by the evidence, and do they not
show beyond controversy, that there was a contract between
Coulson and Payne respecting this land'1 and this important
point being established, independent of the bond, the genuineness of that instrument must be extremely probable. Its language agrees with the contract as proved by parol, and several of the witnesses say the contract, was reduced -to writing.
And in addition to this, the clear proof of the handwriting of
Bush the subscribing witness, would seem to be conclusive.
Taking into view all the facts and circumstances in favour of
the due execution of this instrument, it has been as fully estadished as could be expected of any writing of so ancient a
date.
But it is objected that this bond has been mutilated, and
therefore it must be rejected. It is true that some alterations
have been made on the face of the bond. The words North
Carolina, or some other words, have been erased, and the word
Virginia, in lieu thereof, has been inserted. This alteration
would make the bond read Isaac Coulson, of the state of "Virginia," and county of Davidson, instead of the state of "North
Carolina," &c. The signature of Isaac Coulson to the "bond
seems to have been scratched out and again written.
That these alterations have been made since the death of
Payne is satisfactorily proved, and it is clear that no one having any interest under the bond, could have had a motive to
alter it, as seems to have been done. If, by the alterations,
the obligation of Coulson had been increased, either as to the
time of payment, the sum to.be paid, or the number of acres
to be conveyed, Payne or his heirs might have had some mo-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v.Walton and others.]

tive of interest to make them, but their interest was directly
opposed to any act, which would impair the validity of the
bond, or cast suspicion upon it.
It is proved that, after the death of Payne, the bond was in
the possession of those who claimed the land adversely to it,
so that its destruction would have advanced their interests.
It is fair, therefore, to presume, that if the alterations were
made by design, they could not have been made by any one
claiming under the bond, but must have been made by some
one who had an interest in destroying it.
By this bond Coulson agreed to pay to Payne 100 pounds in
twelve months, or in lieu of the money, to convey the land.
It is alleged in the bill that Coulson elected to pay the 100
pounds by a conveyance of the land, and that Payne agreed to
receive it.

This is a clear case of election by the obligor; and a conveyance of the land or the payment of the money, within the time
specified, would have discharged the obligation. The money
has not been paid, and although there is no positive proof that
an election was made during the life of Coulson to pay the
land, yet, from the facts and circumstances of the case, and the
condition of the obligation, there can be no doubt that those
who claim under it have a right to consider it now as an absolute bond for tne conveyance of the land.
The statute of limitations is set up as a bar to the relief
sought by the bill, and as this is a ground more relied on by
the counsel than any other, it requires a most careful examination.
In the ninth section of "an act concerning proving wills,
and granting letters of administration, and to prevent frauds in
the management of intestates' estates," enacted by North Carolina in 1715, and which is now in force in Tennessee, it is provided, "that creditors of any person deceased shall make their
claim within seven years after the death of such debtor, otherwise such creditor shall be for ever barred."
Under this statute the question arises, whether the repi esentatives of Payne, in asserting their claim to the land in controversy, can be considered creditors 2 Whether, in a case where
the relation of vendor and vendee exists, the consideration having been paid, and a naked trust only has descended- to the

SUPREME COURT
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

heir, he can protect himself under this statute, after the lapse
of seven years, against a bill for a specific performance.
It is insisted by the defendant's counsel, that this is not considered an open question in Tennessee, and that in pursuance
of the rule of decision in this court, to adopt the construction
given to its statutes by the supreme court of a state, the question must be considered here also as settled.
The first case, Smith v. Hickman's Heirs, referred to is in
Cooke 330. In this case, the reporter says, "the bill states that
the ancestor of the defendants, sometime in the spring of 1789,
executed an obligation to the complainant, binding him to convey six hundred acres of land, within a reasonable time, that
the said ancestor died intestate, in the year 1791, leaving the
defendants his heirs at law, and that administration of the
personal estate was committed to his wife and two other persons. That the obligation has not been complied with, and
that the defendants refuse to satisfy the same, although there is
a large estate descended to them both real and personal. The
bill prays for a specific performance." To this bill the statute
of limitations was pleaded in bar.
In their opinion, the court say, "it has been insisted that the
complainant is not a creditor, on account of the demand not
being of a pecuniary nature, but, as it is the duty of this court
to examine this point, they feel satisfied that as to that he is
within the act. All persons are considered creditors that have
demands originating from contracts or agreements." And in
answer to the arguments of counsel, that the statute could have
had no reference to heirs, but to the personal representatives
and the personal estate, the court remark, "the only inquiry
is, whether it were reasonable that the legislature should think
of the situation of heirs, in respect to the debts of their ancestors ;" and again-" if no lapse of time can secure the estate
thus descended, the peace of society would be much disturbed.
Recoveries might be made of one, of many heirs, and suits for
contribution must take place." And further, "it is admitted,
in argument, that it is reasonable legatees and distributees
should know ,when they may be at rest."
From the statement in the bill, it does not appear that the
conveyance of any specific tract of land was prayed for, and it
would seem from the fact of the personal representatives being

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

named in the bill, and an averment that a large estate, both
real and personal, descended to the defendants, that the object of
the suit could not have been a title, but to subject the property
descended to the heir to the payment of the claim. On no
other supposition can the language of the bill receive a sensible
construction.
If the bill had been filed to obtain a decree for a title to a
specific tract of land, would the administrators have been named
in it, and could it have been thought necessary to aver that
a large estate, both real and personal, descended to the defendants q
Whether the heirs inherited any estate, or not, beyond the
particular tract, was wholly immaterial. If they were naked
trustees, they could be held responsible as such, and the administrators were neither necessary nor proper parties to the
suit.
It is true, the language used by the court, in the first quotation above made, is general, and would embrace a case of trust,
but such does not appear to have been the case before them.
And this fact seems to be clear of doubt, when the language
of the court, from other parts of their opinion, as above quoted,
is considered in connexion with the case made in the bill.
The case of Lewis v. Hickman's Heirs, 2 Tenn. Rep. 317, is
also relied on.
In this case the bill stated that Hickman, for a valuable
consideration, executed a bond to Hughes for 500 pounds, with
condition for the conveyance of a tract of two hundred and
seventy-four acres of land, &c. Hickman died intestate, and
his administrator, under a statute authorizing administrators to
make deeds, executed one to the plaintiff's testator, in discharge
of the bond. It was charged that the deed was not in compliance with the statute, and was therefore void. That a certain
Roberts took possession of the land, and, that on account of
the defect in the title, a recovery could not be had against
Roberts. The object of the bill was, that the bond might be
set up, and the plaintiff relieved. The statute was pleaded in
bar, and the defendant stated also, " that he had distributed
the estate among those entitled agreeably to law, and from
length of time he was not able to produce his vouchers," &c.
This was clearly not a case where the plaintiff prayed a speVOL. IX.-L

SUPREME COURT.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

cific performance, and yet it was admitted by the counsel to be
the same in principle, as the one above referred to, of Smith v.
Hickman's Heirs.
In Peck v. Wheaton, Mart. and Yerg. Rep. 353, the supreme
court of Tennessee say, "we are moreover of opinion that the
act of 1715, above quoted, will operate as a bar, and that that
act is in force, we consider one of the best established positions
litigated in our courts."
This bill was brought to subject the lands which had descended to the defendants, to the payment of the debts of their
ancestor, and the court very properly held that the statute was
a good bar. The complainants were, substantially and technically, creditors. This shows too, that it was the ordinary course
in Tennessee, by bill in chancery, to make the lands descended
to heirs liable to the debts of the ancestor.
The case of Armstrong v. Campbell, 3 Yerg. 208, is cited.
In the margin, the reporter says, that the only exception to the
operation of the statute of limitations is, where the trust is created by express contract, and where the relation of trustee and
cestul que trust exists in fact, and not by implication. But in
this case the question did not come directly before the court.
That the statute of limitations is applied, by courts of equity,
in all cases where at law it might be pleaded, is a well settled
principle. At law, to make the statute a bar, there must be an
adverse possession, and by analogy a court of equity, in a similar case, will hold the statute to be a good bar.
But the statute insisted on as a bar in this case, does not
depend upon possession. It bars a creditor who does not sue
the heir within seven years. There can be no doubt that the
statute applies, where a creditor seeks to make the heir liable
for the debt of his ancestor, on the ground that either personal
or real property descended to him. And this appears to be the
decision of the supreme court of Tennessee, on the statute.
There is nothing in their decisions referred to, which show that
they have given effect to the statute beyond this. By the
statute of 1819, which is wholly different in its language from
the act of 1715, a bar is created, indiscriminately, to suits in
equity as well as at law But this statute does not govern the
case under consideration.
In the case of Hagsard v. Mayfield, 5 Hay. 121, the court

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

say, "as to the act of limitation of 1715, where is the obligee
in such a case as the present barred as against the heir q He
has no demand against the executor when he elects the land,
and cannot therefore be barred as to him. His demand is only
against the heir, and that too in equity, upon a trust to be performed by the heir, who, until performance, holds the land for
the obligee, and he is only barrable, as in case of equities, by
the lapse of twenty years unaccounted for." This point was
notinvolved in the case, but the question shows the views of
the court.
From a careful examination of the cases in which the ninth
section of the act of 1715 has undergone a judicial construction
by the supreme court of Tennessee, we are satisfied that the
question raised in the present case has not been decided. And
this court can have no hesitation in saying, that the complainants in this suit can in no correct sense, claiming as they do a
specific execution of the contract, be considered creditors within
the meaning of the statute. They do not seek to subject the
lands which descended to the defendant, to the payment of
debts contracted by his ancestor, but to divest the naked legal
title in favour of an equity clearly established. An equity
founded upon a contract which acknowledged the receipt of
the consideration in full, in 1787, and, as is proved, the same
consideration which was paid by the defendant's father for the
land in question an equity accompanied by a possession of
more than twenty years.
Can lapse of time operate to the prejudice of the complainants'l Have they slept upon their rights"q
In about five years after the conveyance should have been
executed, we find Payne in Virginia, endeavouring to procure
a title. And at that time he did prove a recognition of his
claim by the widow of the obligor, who was the only person,
according to the views then entertained, that had an interest
in the land, and was capable of entering into a legal obligation.
Payne's visit is repeated to Virginia for the same obiect, and he
sends an agent at another time. In 1798 he sells a part of this
land, and in the following year or in 1800, possession is taken
under this purchase, and subsequently other purchases are
made, and the possession of the land under Payne and his
representatives, has been continued to the present time. In

SUPREME COURT
[Coulson v. Walton and others.]

1805 Payne died, and this land descended to his heirs at law,
several of whom were infants, and it is admitted that until
the year 1801, there was no court of chancery in Tennessee,
through which the specific execution of a contract could be
enforced. And it is proved that this land has been called
Payne's land for thirty-five years.
These facts being proved, does the case come within any
decision by the courts of this country or of England, where
the specific execution of a contract has been refused, on the
ground of lapse of time'1
When the condition of the parties, their remote residence
from each other, their deaths, the state of the country and its
tribunals, are considered, it would seem that'instead of being
negligent in the prosecution of the claim for a title to this land,
Payne and those who claim under him, have shown more than
ordinary diligence. Even after the death of Payne, we find
his son and administrator in Virginia endeavouring to procure
the title. And at this time, as well as at all times previously,
when application was made, the right of Payne was acknowledged.
Under such circumstances this court cannot consider the
lapse of timeas operating against the right set up by the complainants.
The instruments under which a part of the complainants set
up an equity derived from Payne's heirs are proved, but they
cannot be sanctioned by this court, except where such instruments were executed by the heirs of full age. It is the duty of
the court to protect the interests of minors, and we think the
decree of the circuit court in this respect, as well as in every
other, is correct, and it is therefore affirmed, with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of West Tennessee, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is decreed and ordered by this court, that the
decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs.

