SUPREME COURT.

THE

BANK

BOTTOM,

OF GEORGIA, APPELLANTS V. JAMES
ADMINISTRATOR

OF WILLIAM

S.

HIGGIN-

GILLETT, AND

OTHERS.
South Carolina. G. the executor of his father, who had devised his estate to
G. and his other children, sold the estate and became himself the purchaser
of it; and in order to secure the portions of the other devisees, who were
minors, confessed a judgment, June 1, 1819, on a promissory note, in favour
of two persons, without their knowledgein a sum supposed to be sufficient to
be a full security for the amount ofthe portions of the minors. The judgment
was kept in full operation, by executions regularly issued upon it, so as,
under the laws of South Carolina, to bind the property of G. He was then
engaged in mercantile pursuits, and had other property than that so purchased by him. G. afterwards became insolvent, and the claims of the
devisees of his father, under the judgment, were contested by his creditors,
as fraudulent, the plaintiffs, in the judgment, having no knowledge of it
when it was confessed, the amount of the sum due to the co-devisees not
having been ascertained when it was confessed, no declaration of trust having been executed by the plaintiffs, and false representations of his situation having been made by G. after the judgment, whereby his creditors were
induced to give him time on a judgment confessed to them subsequently.
The judgment of June 1, 1819 was held to be valid, and the plaintiffs in that
judgment entitled to the proceeds of the sales of the estate of G., for the
satisfaction of the amount actually due to the co-devisees by G.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of South Carolina.

The appellants, on the 4th of April 1827, filed their bill in
the circuit court of the United States, for the district of South
Carolina. to set aside a judgment, or postpone the effect of the

same, which had been confessed by William S. Gillett, in the
Barnwell district court of the state of South Carolina, for the

sum of 30,000 dollars.
The judgment was founded on a promissory note drawn by

William S. Gillett, in favour of James Higginbottom and William Provost, for 30,000 dollars, dated the 1st of June 1819,
and payable on demand. The judgment was confessed on the
1st of June, as of the fourth Monday of March 1819. William
S. Gillett was the acting executor of the last will and testament

of his father, Doctor Elijah Gillett, by which a specific portion
of the estate was devised to him, and other parts of the estate

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

were given to the children of the testator. By the terms of
the will, the executors had power to sell such part of the estate
devised, as it might be beneficial or expedient so to dispose of.
William S. Gillett was also, at the time of the confession of the
judgment, the guardian of his infant brothers and sisters, the
devisees of his father of all the estate not specially devised to
him.
In December 1818, the personal estate of the testator, Elijah
Gillett, was appraised at 56,474 dollars, and on the 22d day of
March, William S. Gillett, after having selected or taken by
lot a portion of the estate to which he considered himself entitled, sold, at public auction, a large number of the negroes, and
all the personal estate of the testator. The proceeds of the
sale exceeded 40,000 dollars, and William S. Gillett was the
principal purchaser at the sale.
The judgment for 30,000 dollars was confessed for the use
and benefit of the younger children of Elijah Gillett, the testator, all at that time minors, was for about the sum which was
supposed to be in the hands of their guardian after the sale,
and was alleged to have been given in trust to the said Higginbottom and Provost, to secure to them their interest in the
estate of their father.
At the time of the confession of this judgment, of the 1st
day of June 1819, William S. Gillett was largely indebted to
the complainants, and concerned in a mercantile house in
Savannah, the affairs of which, a witness stated, he did not
seem to consider very prosperous: he did not represent the house
to be bankrupt or likely to become so; but, on the contrary, le
then and long afterwards, appeared confident that the affairs of
the house would wind up satisfactorily.
On the 21st of October 1821, William S. Gillett confessed a
judgment in the circuit court of the United States for the
South Carolina circuit, for the sum of '7849 dollars, in favour
of the Bank of Georgia, under an agreement that time should
be given to pay the amount thereof, viz. one, two, three and
four years.
The bill states, that the debt due on that judgment being
unpaid, the complainants, to have satisfaction thereof, lately
sued out a fieri facias against William S. Gillett on it, under
which a sufficient sum was made to pay the debt due on the
VOL. IX.-G

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

same, but the proceeds of the said execution are claimed under
the judgment in favour of Higginbottom and Provost, for the
payment and satisfaction of the same. The bill prays for
general relief, &c.
It appeared in evidence, that on the 12th day of April 1825,
James Higginbottom and William Provost, the plaintiffs in the
judgment of June 1, 1819, at the request of Robert, Isaac and
Villiam Scarborough, who had been named as co-executors
of the will of Doctor Gillett, assigned over, under their respective hands and seals, to them the judgment of June 1, 1819,
to the use and benefit of the testator's younger children, for
the purpose of securng and assuring to them respectively, their
interest in the testator's estate.
In answer to an interrogatory propounded to him on behalf
of the complainants, the counsel who prepared the confession
of the judgment of June 1, 1819, stated, "the judgment confessed by William S. Gillett to Higginbottom and Provost was
prepared by me as a security for the parts or portions of the
younger children of Doctor Elijah Gillett deceased, of the
estate of then father, and I think that at the time, I wrote or
sketched off a draft of a declaration of the trust upon which
the judgment was given, to be signed by Higginbottom and
Provost, neither of whom were present. I do not recollect to
have seen this paper after it was executed, although I may
have seen it. Indeed I always believed that I bad seen it till
I came to tax my recollection for the purpose of answering this
interrogatory. My impression has always been that such a
paper was executed, and I have now no doubt but that it was.
I recollect perfectly that Gillett expressed a determination not
to confess the judgment, unless a declaration of its object was
signed by the nominal plaintiffs."
The plaintiffs in the judgment of the 1st of June 1819, issued
a fieri facias to October term 1819, of the Barnwell district court,
which was entered in the- sheriff's office, on the 19th of July
1819, an alias fien facias was lodged in the sheriff's office, on
the 3d of February 1824, and a pluries fieri facias was "lodged
to bind," in the sheriff's office, on the 31st of December 1824.
The accounts of William S. Gillett, as the executor of his
father, were audited, and a balance found due by him to the
estate, including interest to July 11, 1831, of 48,961 dollars and

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.)

92 cents. After appropriating to the payment of the balance
due by the executor on the judgment to Higginbottom and
Provost, all the proceeds of the sales under the judgment of the
Bank of Georgia, there would be a deficit, to make up the
amount due by William S. Gillett to his co-devisees and legatees, of 14,138 dollars 66 cents.
On the 25th of June 1825, the circuit court, by a decree,
held that the declaration of trust contained in the assignment
of the judgment of the 1st of June 1819, executed by Higginbottom and Provost, under which the minor children of Doctor
Elijah Gillett claimed precedence, "was a sufficient declaration in wnting; and that a regard to the interests of -the
minors, sanctioned the court in sustaining the judgment for
any amount that should be justly due to them." Afterwards,
on the 22d of July 1832, the circuit court gave a decree in
favour of the defendants in that court, and the complainants
entered this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr Key, for the appellants, and by
Mr Preston, for the appellees.
By Mr Key, for the appellants, it was contended, that the
evidence in the case shows that the judgment in favour of Higgmnbottom and Provost, was confessed on a promissory note for
30,000 dollars-that that notewasgiven onnoconsideration, and
was never delivered, but was only signed by Gillett as a foundation for the judgment-that. neither of the parties, the payees
of the note and the plaintiffs in the judgment, nor the cestuique trusts, knew of the note or judgment, or assented to it, till
several years afterwards-and that there was no written declaration of the trust connected in any manner with said note
or judgment-that nothing was due from said Gillet, at that
time, to his brothers and sisters, and that he was then largely
indebted to complainants.
The appellants claim a reversal of the decree of the court
below, on the following grounds
1. That the promissory note, on which the judgment was
confessed is without consideration, and the judgment founded
upon it, being a voluntary judgment, must be declared void, or
postponed to the demands of bona fide creditors.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

2. That if a judgment may be taken to cover a future debt,
the intent should appear on the face of the proceedings; or at
all events be evidenced by contemporary written declarations,
in a solemn and authentic manner. But in this case, the judgment is assumed as a security for a debt to third persons not
named in the proceedings, growing out of transactions foreign
from any allegations in the pleadings, and unconnected with
the purposes for which it is now used, except by parol evidence.
3. That the sanction of such a security for confidential and
favourite creditors will be attended with great inconvenience,
by putting it in the power of the debtor and irresponsible persons owing no duty to the supposed cestuique trusts, to make
the judgment good or bad, and more or less, at their pleasure,
to introduce all the mischief of secret liens to the injury of bona
fide creditors, and to corrupt the character, and destroy the
certainty of judicial records.
The facts in this case show a judgment creditor in 1825,
with an execution (his judgment in South Carolina obtained in
1821), stopped by the claim of another creditor with a judgment in 1819.
He cannot be thus stopped.
1 Because the plaintiffs in the prior judgment had lost their
priority by laches. They never proceeded with their judgment
farther than to issue executions (fieri facias's), and leave them
in the sheriff's office "to bind." For this he cited, Roberts on
Fraud. Con. 198, 199, 200-205, 571, 572, 11 Johns. Rep.
110, 17 Johns. Rep. 274.
It is thus if the judgment of 1819 was fair.
2. But it was not fair because it was intended to benefit
the defendant in the judgment, by keeping his property in his
possession protected by this lien. This object for the confession of the judgment is shown in Patterson's deposition.
3. Again, the judgment is fraudulent, because there was
nothing due to the plaintiffs. The judgment, and the note on
which it was founded, it is admitted, were for account of no
debt due to plaintiffs, but for some trust to others.
The judgment is absolute. No condition, no release, no
such trust can be listened to. It must appear on the record of

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

the judgment, and can be shown no where else. Parol evidence is inadmissible to show an absolute judgment to be a
conditional one, except (which is not pretended here) in a case
where there was a mistake or a fraud.
4. Again, it cannot be shown, because the security, whatever it be-a judgment or deed-must contain within itself the
terms and conditions of the transfer, and a possession corresponding therewith. This is the doctrine of Hamilton v. Russell, 1
Cranch 309, 1 Cond. Rep. 318, though doubted in 3 Cowen.
United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch 73, 1 Cond. Rep. 458.
Here there is neither. The trust is attempted to be shown
by parol evidence not connected with the instrument of transfer, and the possession of the property ought to have been
divested by an execution levied. Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters 386.
5. But it could be shown elsewhere, here it is shown nowhere. There was never any written declaration of this trust.
That adopted as such by the court below, is not such, it is a
mere assignment of the judgment. And again, it was secret,
and kept in the plaintiff's pocket.
6. But take it as a sufficient declaration, and this trust is
found to have all the marks of fraud in Twine's case, and collected in page 42 of Hammond's Chancery Digest.
It is secret, it is for all the debtor's property, it is for future
debts, and'the purpose is concealed by an absolute judgment
to other persons, for a different consideration. The possession,
use and expenditure of the property is left in the defendant, by
never levying executions. It was made without application of
the pretended creditor, and without his knowledge, and is for
all his property, when less than half would have been sufficient.
Mr Preston, for the appellees, stated, that the question before
the court was, as to the priority of lien of two judgments. If
in the judgment there were any technical defects, the party
who could show such defects might avail himself of them in a
court of law.
There can be no doubt, but that if the judgment of June
1st, 1819, in favour of Higginbottoin and Provost can enure to
the benefit of those for whom it was confessed, the legatees of

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

Doctor Gillet, it will be supported. The court will look at the
equities of the parties; and if one is higher than, or even equal to
the other, the priority of the first judgment will be suffered to
prevail.
It must be remarked by the court, that if the exceptions
taken to the first judgment will apply; they are equally, if not
more applicable to the second. The second judgment was
confessed in 1821, and no proceedings took place upon it until
1827 This was two years after the time given on it had expired, and six years after it had been rendered. There is no
evidence of any declaration in writing, that this judgment
was given on a trust to secure the bank for a debt, the whole
of which was not due, and for the payment of which the plaintiffs had given time, and yet the complainants seek to impugn
the prior judgment, upon principles which will operate more
forceably against their own. While the whole amount of the
judgment for 30,000 dollars was actually due at the time it was
confessed the notes of the defendant in the judgment, in favour of the complainants, were running in the bank, and
changes were made in them by substituting other parties to
them.
Supposing the judgment on which the appellants rely to be
good, how does that under which the appellees claim the fund
in controversy stand ' A bona fide debt is shown to be due to
them, and thus there was avaluable consideration for the judgment, and it was also a bona fide consideration. The devisees
of Doctor Gillett were the bona fide plaintiffs in the judgment,
and nothing of a character to affect the integrity of the proceeding is alleged against them or the trustees.
The record shows that the sales of Doctor Gillett's property
were made by the executor, who was also guardian of the minor
co-devisees, and that thereby the debt from him tothem was incurred. The minors were entitled to have the amount due to
them secured, and this could best be done by a judgment,
known to be for the purpose of security. By the laws of South
Carolina, executors do not give security, and this made the
proceeding which was adopted yet more proper, necessary and
obligatory.
It is said that Higginbottom and Provost had no interest in

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottomn.]

the fund intended to be secured, and that, therefore, the confession of the judgment was a fraud, and a nullity. The parties
are in a court of equity, and the court will make the plaintiffs
trustees for the minors, and if necessary, will compel them to
act for them.
It has been argued on the part of the appellants, that although
the judgment may have been valid when confessed, the security it gave has been lost by the laches of the parties to it.
A practical evidence of the law of South Carolina, as to the
effect ofjudgments, is afforded by the conduct of the appellants.
They wait six years before they proceed on their judgment.
The most usual practice in South Carolina in securing debts
is by judgment. This course of proceeding has been recognized for thirty years, in that state, by the judicial tribunals
there, as well for prospective as for existing debts. This has
been established by the uniform decisions of the courts of the
state. Cited, Greenwood v. Naylor, I M'Cord's Rep. 414decided in 1820, 1 Bay's Rep. 295, 3 Dessaus. Rep. 543, 4
M'Cord 336.
An execution binds until length of time furnishes presumption of satisfaction. Even a dormant execution is a perpetual
lien. This is too well established by the courts of South Carolina, to be brought into doubt. The State v. Laval,4 M'Cord's
Rep. 342. In the case before the court, the executions have
been regularly kept in operation.
It is said that this case is like an absolute deed of assignment,
without possession being given of the property assigned.
That there was a secret trust, and this invalidates the judg.
ment.
It is a radical error to suppose there is no difference between
an absolute deed, and an absolute judgment. Judgments are
always absolute, yet they convey no right of property, but only
give a lien, which is carried into beneficial action by an execution. Judgments give a right to sell the property of the defendant, but not possession of the defendant's property.
The possession of the property of the defendant by him, is not
adverse to the plaintiff's right to proceed against it. The right
of possession is necessarily in the defendant until a levy; and
then the question of possession is between him and the sheriff,
not the plaintiff in the execution.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.)

The lodging an exedution with the sheriff "to bind," is notice to all the world that the lien of the judgment is asserted.
The doctrine of the appellant's counsel does not apply to a
case of this kind, and the cases in 1 Cranch 315, 3 Cranch
88, when examined, do not sustain the claims made upon them.
So too as to the case in 9 Johns. 337.
The operation of a judgment is not to prevent delay, for the
plaintiff in any other judgment may proceed when he pleases
and sell the property of the defendant, and take the surplus
after satisfying the prior judgment.
It is said there was a secret trust, and that there should
have been a declaration m writing to show the purposes of the
judgment.
In the case before the court, there was a valid purpose to be
effected by the judgment in favour of Higginbottom and Provost, and their names were used to give it full operation. There
is no just imputation that there was a secret trust for the defendant, nor was there any necessity for a declaration in writing, if one was not given at the time the judgment was confessed, which may be inferred from the evidence. If there had
been an understanding that the property should remain with
the plaintiffs for a particular time, a written declaration to this
effect might have been necessary. But this was not so, and
all the objects of the parties were accomplished by lodging the
execution with the sheriff, "to bind."
In South Carolina there has been established by the judicial
decisions of the courts, an equity, which fully operates in this
case. Where a party as a member of a family is called on to
account, a lien is held to exist on all the property of a testator
in his hands, for the amount due to those interested in his trust.
It has been established by the evidence, that Higginbottom
and Provost were trustees for the minors, that the minors are
creditors for a bona fide and valuable consideration, and if so,
they are the oldest bona fide lien creditors, and as such this
court will protect them.
Mr Justice M'LEN delivered the opimon of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the circuit court for the
district of South Carolina.
In their bill the complainants ask the court to set aside or

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.j

postpone a judgment for 30,000 dollars, confessed by Gillett in
favour of Higginbottom and Provost, on the ground of fraud,
and that certain moneys made by execution on a judgment
subsequently obtained by the complainants, be directed to be
paid over in satisfaction of such judgment.
The judgment for 30,000 dollars was confessed in 1819, on
which executions were regularly issued from time to time and
entered in the clerk's office, so as, under the laws of South
Carolina, to bind the property of the defendant.
The appellant insists that this judgment, which was held to
be valid by the circuit court, should be set aside, because the
promissory note on which the judgment was confessed, was
given without consideration, and that the judgment must consequently be declared void, or postponed to the demands of bona
fide creditors.
From the facts of the case it appears that William S. Gillett
was the acting executor of the estate of his father, and that
under the will he sold the property and became the purchaser
of it, to a much larger amount than the sum for which judgment was confessed. He was then engaged in mercantile
business, and had other property than that which he purchased
at this sale, and the judgment was confessed to secure the
payment of the purchase money to the brothers and sisters of
the defendant, who were the devisees in the will.
This sale having been made by a trustee to himself, must
have been set aside and annulled on the application of the
cestui que trust, but no such application being made, it cannot
be treated as a nullity, as it regards strangers to the transaction.
The appellants insist that the plaintiffs in the judgment bad
no knowledge of it at the time it was entered, that the amount
to which the devisees were entitled had not been ascertained,
that false representations were made by Gillett, subsequent to
this judgment, as to the extent of his property, through which
the complainants were induced to give time on the judgment
entered in their behalf, and that these facts are evidence of
fraud.
The evidence does not show that at the time the judgment
was confessed, Higginbottom and Provost had any knowledge
of it, but this is not deemed material, as they subsequently
recognzed the trust and acted under it. Nor is it essential to
VOL. IX-1H

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

the validity of the judgment, that the distributive shares of the
devisees should have been ascertained, provided they exceed
in amount the sum for which judgment was entered. And
this appears to be the fact, from a final adjustment of the executor's account.
The false representations by Gillett, respecting the extent of
his property, if true, as charged by the complainants, could not
affect the previous judgment, if entered in good faith. But,
connected with other facts, they may go to show, in its true
light, the conduct of the defendant. If he represented his
property as wholly unincumbered, after the judgment for
20,000 dollars had been confessed, it would show a design on
his part, to practise a fraud on the complainants, and might
cast a suspicion over the first judgment. But these representations are not proved, as alleged in the bill. They were not,
as made by the defendant, so incompatible with the facts of
the case, as not to be accounted for by a somewhat partial
estimate of the value of his property, free from motives of
fraud. The defendant subsequently became a bankrupt, but
this was produced by various occurrences stated in his answer,
which were not and could not be foreseen.
Shortly after the purchase, it appears the defendant was
solicitous to secure the devisees, and he consulted counsel as to
the best mode of effectuating this object. A mortgage was at
first suggested, but afterwards a judgment was deemed preferable. This mode, it seems, is frequently adopted in South
Carolina, to secure the payment of money A judgment
being entered, it is only necessary to issue an execution from
term to term, which may remain in the clerk's office, to create
and continue a lien on the personal property of the defendant.
As a matter of form, a note was executed by the defendant
for 30,000 dollars, and this was made the foundation of the
judgment. Was this note given without consideration q The
defendant had purchased the property of the infant devisees, to
a greater amount than that for which the note was executed.
And was not the executor bound by every consideration arising from the agency he exercised, and the relation in which
he stood to the devisees, to secure for their benefit the purchase
money 2
They were infants, and consequently incapable of protecting

JANUARY TERM 1835.
(Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

their own interests. The defendant was enriched by the purchase of their property, to a greater amount than the 30,000
dollars. And if by the conditions of the sale, time was to be
given for the payment of the money, that circumstance does
not make either the note or the judgment fraudulent. The
judgment was intended to operate as a security for the payment of the money, and the defendant was bound in good
faith to give this security Had he failed in this respect, he
would have been guilty of a most aggravated fraud, against
his infant brothers and sisters, whose property had been placed
at his disposal.
But the appellants contend, if a judgment may be taken to
cover a future debt, the intent should appear on the face of the
proceedings, or at all events, be evidenced by a contemporary
written declaration.
That in this case, the judgment is
assumed as a security for a debt to third persons not named in
the proceedings, and whose interest in the judgment can only
be proved by parol evidence.
No written declaration of the trust, made at the time judgment was entered, is in evidence, but the counsel who procured the judgment swears that at the same time, he thinks
he wrote or sketched off, a draft of a declaration of the trust,
upon which the judgment was given, to be signed by Higgin-,
bottom and Provost, and his impression has always been that
such a paper was executed, that in taking the judgment, he
acted for the children of Doctor Gillett, and thatWilliam S. Gillett, the defendant, expressed apprehensions that the judgment,
at some future period, might be used to his injury and contrary
to his intention, and to obviate that difficulty, it was concluded
that a declaration of the trusts upon which it was given, should
be signed by Higginbottom and Provost.
From this evidence, it is extremely probable that a declaration of trust was executed at the time of the judgment, or
shortly afterwards, but whether this was done or not, the
trust is clearly established by the evidence, and the transaction
is not impeachable uinder the statute of frauds.
If, as contended by the appellants, the judgment was confessed by the appellee with a view of covering his property
from his creditors, it would have been fraudulent. And if he
had expressed to no one the object of the trust, the confession

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

of a judgment for so large a sum, to persons who had no claim
against him, would be evidence of fraud. But there are no
facts or circumstances connected with the entry of the judgment, which cast a suspicion of a fraudulent intent by the defendant.
It is insisted that this judgmenE is void, as it gave a preference to certain creditors and tended to delay others.
There was no unjust or illegal preference in the case, and it
is not seen how creditors were delayed by the judgment. It
did not prevent any creditor from bringing suit and obtaining
judgment and execution. This was done by the appellants,
and a large sum of money was made on their execution, by a
sale of the defendant's property. This proceeding was in no
respect embarrassed by the previous judgment for the benefit of
the infant devisees of Doctor Gillett. But that judgment having
been kept in force by the issuing of executions from term to
term, the money made under the junior judgment must be applied in discharge of the prior lien. There is no injustice or
hardship in this. After the first judgment shall be paid, any
money collected from the defendant, by execution, would of
course be paid on the judgment of the appellants.
But the counsel of the appellants contend, that the continued
possession by the defendant of the property, on which the executions under the first judgment operated as a lien, is conclusive evidence of fraud. And a number of authorities are cited
to show that where an absolute bill of sale of property is made,
and the possession does not accompany the deed, but remains
with the vendor, the transfer is not only voidable, but is absolutely void.
The authorities referred to, seem to have no direct application to the case under consideration. The judgment does not
purport to transfer the property of the defendant, nor was it intended to produce this effect. Connected with the executions
which were issued, a lien was created, and this was not only
the fair and legal effect of the proceeding, but the one which
the parties to the transaction intended to secure.
The possession of the property by the defendant was perfectly consistent with the judgment, and affords no evidence of
fraud. It was like every other case of judgment and execution, which bind the real and personal property of the defend-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of Georgia v. Higginbottom.]

ant, though in his possession. By the laws of South Carolina,
this lien may be continued for any time, not exceeding twenty
years.
No one could have been misled by this judgment. It was
entered on the public record of the district, and the executions
which were issued on it, were duly noted on the clerk's docket,
and these constituted the lien under the usages of South Carolina. It was therefore unnecessary to express on the record or
in any other manner, what the effect of these proceedings
would be.
But it is contended that the lien set up under these proceedings, cannot be sustained, as it covered the entire property of
the defendant, and that this must be considered evidence of
fraud.
The lien, it is true, extended to the entire property of the
defendant, within the state of South Carolina, but it could at
any time be discharged by the payment of the judgment. This
lien, therefore, neither withdraws the property of the defendant
-from the reach of his creditors, nor delays the legal enforcement of their claims.
The circuit court, with the consent of parties, directed the
sale of the entire property of the defendant, and as the proceed
of this sale fall many thousand dollars below the judgment,
and a still greater sum below the amount the executor owes
the devisees, it cannot be necessary to examine some of the
principles settled by the circuit court preparatory to a final decree. We think the application made of the money arising
from the sale, by the final decree of the court below, was right,
and it is affirmed. The bill of the complainants must therefore be dismissed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of South Carolina, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed, by this court
that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

