THE DECISIONS
or

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

AT

JANUARY TERM 1835.

ELIZA

BROWN,

APPELLANT

TRATRIX OF WILLIAmI

T.

V

FRANCES

SWANN, ADMINIS-

SWANN, DECEASED, AND RICHARD

B. ALEXANDER.
An appeal to the supreme court does not lie from a decree of the circuit court
making an injunction perpetual, and leaving some matters of account open
for further consideration, upon which the parties went on to take further
proof. The decree perpetuating the injunction, was not a final decree.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Alexandria, in the district of Columbia.
Mr Lee, for the appellees, moved to dismiss the appeal, the
same having been taken before a final decree in the case in
the circuit court.

The appellees filed their bill in the circuit court, on the
21st of November 1825. An injunction was directed on the
filing of the bill, which was afterwards in part dissolved.
VOL. IX.-A

Sub-

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. $wann.]

sequently the injunction was altogether dissolved, and further
proceedings being had in the case, the court, on the 3d day of
December 1832, made the following decree.
"And now here at this day, to wit, at a court continued and
held for the district and county aforesaid, the 3d day of December 1832, came the parties aforesaid, by their solicitors, and
this cause having been set for hearing and decree on the bills,
answers, demurrer of defendant, exhibits and depositions, as
heretofore stated in the proceedings herein, and now coming
on to be heard, it is the opinion of the court that the law on
the demurrers is for the complainant. It is therefore by the
court adjudged and decreed, that the demurrer be overruled.
It is further the opinion of the court, that the complainant has
fully sustained the charge of usury made by her in her bill
against the defendant, in relation to the loan therein stated,
for a part of which loan the judgment at law heretofore enjoined by the order of this court in this cause was obtained,
and that under the provisions of the third section of the statute
to amend the act entitled an act against usury, the defendant
is entitled to receive no more than the principal sum by her
lent, and is liable to the payment of the costs of this suit. And
it appearing to the court, as well from the admissions of the
defendant, as from the proof made by the complainant, that of
the sum of 2300 dollars, loaned by the defendant under the
said usurious contract, the complainant and her intestate have
paid the sum of 1350 dollars and 30 cents, leaving of the principal money loaned the sum of 949 dollars and 70 cents unpaid, and the court not being satisfied as to the payment of
the further sum of 50 dollars, for which the complainant claims
credit, it is thereupon by the court adjudged and decreed, that
the injunction heretofore awarded the complainant be perpetual, except as to the said sum of 949 dollars and 70 cents,
of which sum the defendant is at liberty to proceed under her
judgment for the sum of 890 dollars and 70 cents, and on the
complainant's motion, for reasons appearing to the court, this
cause is continued for further consideration as to the said sum
of 50 dollars, part of the credit claimed by the complainant.
"From which decree the defendant prays an appeal to the
supreme court of the United States, which is granted, on her
giving bond, and security to be approved by one of the judges
of this court."

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Brown v. Swann.]

The parties after this decree and appeal, went on to take
depositions under the authority of the circuit court, which were
filed in that court, and, on the 18th of May 1833, the circuit
court made the following decree.
"And afterwards, to wit, at an United States circuit court
of the district of Columbia, continued and held for the county
aforesaid, the 18th day of May 1833, the depositions of Richard
B. Alexander and Alexander Moore, taken under a commission issued in this case, having been returned and filed, and
this cause now coming on for final hearing as to.the credit
claimed by the complainant for the sum of 50 dollars, her right
to which was reserved for consideration by the terms of the
decree heretofore pronounced, and it being the opinion of the
court that the complainant is, under the proof offered, entitled
to the said credit, it is now here by the court decreed, that
the injunction heretofore awarded the complainant be perpetual, except as to the sum of 899 dollars and 70 cents, as to
which the defendant is at liberty to proceed on her judgment
at law, and it is further decreed, that the defendant do pay
to the complainant her costs in this suit, to be taxed by the
clerk."
Mr Jones, contra.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court. dismissing the appeal with costs; because the appeal
was granted before there was a final decree in the case.

On appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria. On consideration of the motion made in this cause yesterday, by Mr Edmund J. Lee of counsel for the appellees to dismiss this cause, because the appeal was granted before there
was a final decree rendered in the court below, and of the
arguments of counsel thereupon, had as well for the appellant
as for the appellees it is now here ordered, adjudged and
decreed by this court, that this appeal be and the same is hereby
dismissed with costs.

