SUPREME COURT.

DOMINGO URTETIQUI, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JOHN
cY, HENRY DIDIER AND DOMINGO

D'ARBEL,

N. D'AR-

DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.
Maryland. The plaintiffs instituted a suit in the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, stating themselves to be citizens of
the state of Maryland, and that the defendant was an alien, and a subject of
the king of Spain. The defendant pleaded in abatement, that one of the
plaintiffs, Domingo D'Arbel, was not a citizen of Maryland, nor of any of
the United, States, but was an alien, and a subject of the king of Spain.
Upon the trial of the issue joined on this plea, the plaintiffs produced and
gave in evidence under the decision of the circuit court, a passport granted
by the secretary of state of the United States, stating D'Arbel to be
a citizen of the United States. Held that the passport was not legal evidence to establish the fact of the citizenship of the person m whose favour
it was given.
The defendant in the circuit court, offered in evidence the record, duly certified, of the district courtof the United States for the district of Louisiana,
containing the proceedings in a suit which had been originally instituted
against D'Arbel, in a state court of Louisiana, and on his affidavit that he
was an alien, and a subject of the king of Spain, had been removed for trial
to the district court, under the authority of the act of congress authorizing
such a removal of a suit against an alien into a court of the United
States. The record was introduced, as containing a copy of the affidavit of
D'Arbelin the state court, upon which the case was removed. Held, that
tna was legal evidence.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The defendants in error instituted an action of assumpsit in
the circuit court, and in the declaration, stated themselves to
be citizens of Maryland, and that the defendant was a subject
of the kang of Spain. The declaration contained the common
counts.
The defendant below, Domingo Urtetiqui, pleaded the general issue, and also a plea in abatement, alleging that Domingo
D'Arbel, one of the plaintiffs, was not, at the impetration of
the writ, a citizen of the United States, or of any one of them.
To this plea there was a replication, and an issue thereon.
On the trial of the cause upon other issues joined, exceptions
were taken to the ruling of the court but as the cause was

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

decided in this court exclusively upon the questions raised on
the plea in abatement, they are omitted in this report.
The exceptions taken by the defendants in the circuit court
were the following.
The plaintiffs in the circuit court having offered evidence to
prove that Domingo D'Arbel was an inhabitant of Louisiana,
before and on the 30th April 1803, and continued to be an inhabitant thereof, until the year 1818 or 1819,-further to support the issue on their part, on the plea of abatement, and to
prove the citizenship of D'Arbel, offered in evidence a passport granted by John Quincy Adams, then secretary of state,
on the 22d March 1824, to the said D'Arbel, as a citizen of
the United States. To the admissibility of this. passport as
legal or competent evidence of the American citizenship of the
said D'Arbel, the defendant below objected, but the court
overruled the objection, and permitted the same to be read to
the jury.
The defendant to support his plea in abatement, and for the
purpose of showing the admission of D'Arbel, under oath, that
he was on the 8th of May 1817 a subject of the king of Spain,
offered in evidence a record of the district court of the United
States, for the eastern district of Louisiana, in a cause, wherein
John K. West curator of James Niel was plaintiff, and Domingo D'Arbel was defendant, which had been removed, under
and by virtue of the twelfth section of the act of 1789, from
the district court of the state of Louisiana for the first judicial
district, upon the petition of the said D'Arbel, supported by
affidavit, that he was on the 8th of May 1817 a subject of
his most catholic majesty, the king of Spain. The record
offered in evidence, set out the transcript or record from the
state court, certified under seal by the deputy clerk of said
court, and also the proceedings in the district court of the
United States thereupon, and the said record was 'certified in
due form, as containing "a full, faithful and true copy of the
transcnpt" from the state court, "and also of the proceedifigs
which have taken place in said cause," in the district court of
the United States. The defendant below also proposed to
gtve in evidence that the D'Arbel mentioned in the record
was the same D'Arbel, one of the plaintiffs in this cause.
The plaintiffs objected to the evidence so offered, and the

SUPREME "COURT.
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

court refused to permit the record to be read in evidence for
the three following reasons:
1. It is res inter alios acta.
2. The transcript from the court of the state of Louisiana is
certified by Stephen Pedesclaux, deputy clerk, without any
official seal. And,
S. The clerk of the district court of the United States certifies that the foregoing nine pages (meaning the record) contain a full, faithful and true copy of the transcript from the
first judicial district court of the state of Louisiana, in the case
wherein John K. West, curator of the estate of James Neil,
is plaintiff, and Domingo D'Arbel is defendant, &c. The certificate is in effect the copy of a copy
The defendant below, to support his plea in abatement, also
gave in evidence by competent witnesses, that D'Arbel had
declared himself to have been a native Frenchman, and born
near the borders between France and Spain, whereupon, the
plaintiffs prayed the court that if the defendant offers no other
evidence than what was then before the jury, in support of
his plea in abatement, the plaintiffs were entitled to the verdict, if the jury believed the plaintiffs' evidence, which prayer
the court granted.
The defendant excepted to the decisions of the court on the
evidence offered by the plaintiffs, and to the ruling of the court
on the prayers of the defendant, and the court sealed a bill of
exceptions. A judgment having been entered on the verdict
of the jury in favour of the plaintiff, the defendant prosecuted
this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Kennedy and Mr Meredith, for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr Johnson and Mr Taney, for
the defendants.
For the plaintiff in error, it was contended, upon the first
exception, that the passport granted by the secretary of state,
to M. D'Arbel, was not admissible evidence.
Passports are not authorised by any act of congress, and
even when they are used in foreign countries, they are, from
the comity of nations in amity with each other, admitted as
prima facie evidence of what they purport. They do no more

JANUARY TERM 1885.
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

than request that the person to whom the passport is given,
may be permitted to pass freely, and that he may have all
lawful aid and protection as a citizen of the United States.
It is denied that the passport was evidence, any more than a
mere certificate of a claim by D'Arbel of citizenship.
It
may show an application to the department of state, but the
circuit court allowed it 'to be read as legal evidence of citizenship.
It is not judicial evidence, as it was not given under any law.
Protections are not per se evidence. 3 Wash. C. C. R. 529.
Such a paper has never been admitted to prove the facts stated
in it. Passports are issued in the department of state on request, and not upon evidence to support the assertion of citizenship on which they are granted. But if such evidence
were required and furnished, unless by some direction or authority of a statute, they would not be evidence of the fact of
citizenship.
It was not intended that a passport should be judicial evidence, either here or abroad. It is a political document addressed to foreign powers and foreign agents. Commanders
of fleets and generals of armies grant them, and they pass for
what they are worth. The practice of the department of state
cannot change the law of evidence.
Upon the second exception, it was argued, that the record of
the proceedings in the case in the district court of the United
States, removed fr'om the state court by D'Arbel, was legal
evidence of the declaration made on oath by him, to obtain the
removal of the cause.
It was introduced only to show the oath taken by D'Arbel. This was his mere declaration, and as such could be °
proved by the paper itself, as a declaration could be proved by
a person who heard it. It is his own act, and as the record is
certified according to the act of congress, the contents of it
were evidence.
D'Arbel had filed the proceedings in the district court,
from the state court, and he was the only person who could
do so, and to obtain the consent of the court to receive them,
he made the affidavit. It is not the proceedings in the state
court which are evidence, but those in the United States court,
which were there upon the affidavit of D'Arbel, under the

SUPREME COURT.
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

authority of the act of congress, and the proceedings of the
state court became those of the district court.
The removalof the proceedings in such a case to a court of the
United States, from a state court, is like the removal of a case
by certiorari, which takes up the whole record, and they become
matter of record in the court to which they go. The term
"process," in the act of congress, means all the proceedings.
No new declaration is filed in the federal court, and the court
may remand the case if its removal has not been legal. Cited,
1'Wheat. 304, 345, 3 Story on the Constitution 608, 1 Peters
C. C. R. 44, 1 Paine 410, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 286.
The objection that the record was res inter alios acta, would
apply to all declarations made under any circumstances. The
record is not to affect the right of any one but D'Arbel,
and to prove the fact of his alienage. Suppose he had declared he was an alien, it would equally affect the rights of his
copartners, and yet the right to prove such a declaration
will not be denied.
As to the third exception, it was argued that it took from
the jury the consideration of all the evidence in the case, and
directed the jury to consider the plaintiffs' evidence only.
This was an interference with the province of the jury.
Mr Johnson and Mr Taney, for the defendants in error, contended on the first exception, that the passport was proper evidence. Documents of this description are made evidence by
usage. The document is respected by foreign nations, itis
granted by a high officer of the government, and it contains
his official declaration of the fact stated in it, the citizenship,of the person named in it. The laws of nations recognize passports as evidence of the national character they
assert.
Acts of congress recognize passports. 2 Laws U. S.98, 3
Laws U. S. 528. The last act imposes a penalty on consuls
for granting passports to persons not entitled to them.
The form, manner and evidence on which a passport shall
be granted, are not regulated by any particular law, but the
court will judicially take notice of the usage of the government
to issue them. It is the universal usage of nations to grant
them, and to respect them as protections according to the law
of nations.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Urtetiqui v. D'ArbeI and others.]

Upon the second exception, the counsel contended that the
record was not evidence in the case. Whether a cause shall
be removed from a state to a federal court, depends on the state
court, and the record of the action of the state court, presented
as it was in this case, would not be evidence. No inquiry is
made in the court of the United States as to alienage, that is
made in the state court, and the affidavit is only to satisfy the
state court of the fact alleged. The -affidavit and the petition form no part of the record, and do not properly go up to
the district court.
If this position is correct, the certificate and seal of the district court of Louisiana, however regular under the act of congress, were no proof of the affidavit. If such affidavit could be
evidence, it should have been proved by the seal of the state
court. As to the construction of the act of 1789 cited, 12
Johns. 153, 4 Hen. and Munf. 173, 3 Mason 457.
If an affidavit is made to a plea in abatement in the circuit
court, would it be evidence in another court l Certainly not.
But when this affidavit was made, D'Arbel was in fact a
citizen of the United States, by the operation of the cession
of Louisiana, whatever may have been his opinion on the subject. He swore in the affidavit to a legal proposition, and he
was in error as to his rights and relations to the United States.
But if the affidavit in the record is evidence against D'Arbel, the question here is, whether it shall be admitted to
affect the other plaintiffs below. It will have the effect to
drive them from their action in the circuit court, and as this
will be the consequence of its admission, this court will consl-

der it to have been properly excluded in the circuit court.
Mr Justice THoiiPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on a writ of error from the circuit court
of the Maryland district. It is an action of assumpsit. The
declaration contains the common money counts, and also counts
for goods sold and delivered, work, labour and services, and an
insimul computassent. There is an averment in the declaration, that the plaintiffs are citizens of the state of Maryland,
and the defendant an alien, and subject of the king of Spain.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and also a plea in
abatement, alleging that Domingo D'Arbel, one of the plainVOL. ix.-4 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

tiffs, was not, at the commencement of the suit, a citizen of
the United States, or any one of them, to which there was
a replication, and issue thereupon joined. And by an agreement contained in the record, all errors in pleading are waived
on both sides, and the cause comes here on five bills of exceptions taken at the trial, three of which relate to matters
arising under the plea in abatement, and .the other two upon
the merits.
The question arising upon the first exception, turns upon the
admissibility in evidence of the passport given by the secretary
of state, introduced to prove the citizenship of Domingo D'Arbel. The record states, that the plaintiffs, further -to support the issue on their part, on the plea in abatement to the
jurisdiction of this court filed in this cause, offered in evidence
the following paper, purporting to be a passport from the secretary of state of the United States, and which was admitted to be
an original paper from the department of state, signed by John
Quincy Adams, then secretary of state of the United States,
and also offered evidence, that the several indorsements on
said paper, were respectively in the handwriting of the
several persons signing the same, and that the said persons
were the respective officers of the government of Mexico, as
they style themselves in the said indorsements, at the periods
at which the same were made. It was also admitted, that
at the date of the said passport, said D'Arbel was then in
Mexico, and that the said passport was applied for, and obtained for him, at his instance, and by his request, by one of
the co-plaintiffs, who transmitted the same to the said D'Arbel,
into whose possession it came, and by whom it was used. The
only proof of said use being the said indorsements so made
thereon. The passportis asfollows: "United Statesof America.
To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting. I, the undersigned, secretary of state of the United States of America,
hereby request all whom it may concern, to permit safely and
freely to pass, Domingo D'Arbel, a citizen of the United States,
and in case of need, to give him all lawful aid and protection.
Given under my hand, and the impression of the seal of the
department of state, at the city of Washington, the 22d day of
March 1824, in the forty-eighth year of the independence of
these United States. JOHN Quincy ADAMS."

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[UrtetiqUL v. D'Arbel and others.]

To the admissibility of which paper in evidence, the defendant, by his counsel, objected, the same not being legal or
competent evidence of the American citizenship of said D'Arbel. But the court were of opinion, and so decided, that the
said paper was legal and competent evidence of said citizenship, and the same was admitted.
There is some diversity of opinion on the bench, with respect to the admissibility in evidence of this passport, arising,
in some measure, from the circumstances under which the offer
was made, and its connexion with othermatters which had been
given in evidence. Upon the general and abstract question,
whether the passport, per se, was legal and competent evidence of the fact of citizenship, we are of opinion that it was
not.
There is no law of the United States, in any manner regulating the issuing of passports, or directing upon what evidence
it may be done, or declaring their legal effect. It is understood,
as matter of practice, that some evidence of citizenship is
required, by the secretary of state, before issuing a passport.
This, however, is entirely discretionary with him. No inquiry is instituted by him to ascertain the fact of citizenship,
or any proceedings had, that will in any manner bear the
character of a judicial Inquiry It is a document, which, from
its nature and object, is addressed to foreign powers, purporting only to be a request, that the bearer of it may pass
safely and freely, and is to be considered rather in the character of a political document, by which the bearer is recognized,
in foreign countries, as an American citizen, and which, by
usage and the law of nations, is received as evidence of the
fact. But this is a very different light, from that in which it
is to be viewed in a court ofjustice, where the inquiry is, as to
the fact of citizenship. It is a mere ex parts certificate, and
if founded upon any evidence produced to the secretary of state,
establishing the fact of citizenship, that evidence, if of a character admissible in a court of justice, ought to be produced
upon the trial, as higher and better evidence of the fact. But
whether the circuit court erred in admitting the passport in
evidence, under the circumstances stated in the exception,
this court is divided in opinion, and the point is of course undecided.

SUPREME COURT
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

The defendant, in order to support the issue on his part, on
the plea in abatement, for the purpose of showing the admission of the said D'Arbel, under oath, that he was a subject of
the king of Spain on the 8th day of May 1817, offered in evidence a document or paper, purporting to be a record of certain proceedings in a cause in the district court of the state of
Louisiana, in and for the first judicial district of that state, in
which John K. West, curator of the estate of James Niel, was
plaintiff, and the said Domingo D'Arbel was defendant, which
proceedings contain a petition presented to the state court, for
the purpose of removing the cause into the district court of the
United States, and in which petition it is alleged, that Domingo D'Arbel is a subject of his most catholic majesty the
king of Spain, and on this ground claimed to have his cause
removed into a court of the United' States, pursuant to the act
of congress. To which petition is annexed, the oath of the
said D'Arbel, that the facts contained in the petition are true,
and that he is a subject of his most cadolic, majesty the king
of Spain. To the admission of this evidence, the plaintiffs'
counsel objected, and the court sustained the objection. The
exception embraces some matters upon which the court expressed no opinion, and need not, therefore, be here noticed.
So far as relates to the admissibility of this evidence, the objection is stated as follows "the plaintiffs object to the giving
in evidence the record so offered, for the purpose for which it
is offered by the defendant. First, because, if the jury find
the facts stated in the plaintiff's first prayer, then they are
bound to find a verdict for the plaintiff, on the plea in abatement, and secondly, because if not concluded, the said record
purports only to give a copy of a copy of the petition and
affidavit alleged to have been filed in the said case, in the said
record mentioned, and a copy of a copy of the said case, as it
purports to have been in the state court, which objection the
court in part sustained, and rejected the record so offered in
evidence." In this, we think, the court erred. We do not
perceive any well founded objection, in any point of view, to
the admission of this record for the purpose for which it was
offered, viz. to prove the declaration of Domingo D'Arbel under
oath, that he was a Spanish subject. It did not in any manner affect the rights of any other party to the judgment, and

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

was no more objectionable, than the declaration or confession
of D'Arbel, made in any other manner or on any other occasion. But it did not lie in the mouth of D'Arbel, to object to
this evidence, as a part of the record of the district court of the
United States. It was his own act placing it on the record of
that court, and that record was duly authenticated according
to the act of congress. This document or record, as it is called,
begins with the following caption or memorandum. "United
States of America, eastern district of Louisiana, ss. Be it remembered, that on the 24th day of May, in the year 1817,
into the district court of the United States in and for the then
Louisiana .district, came Domingo D'Arbel, by his attorneys,
and filed the following transcript or record, to wit." Then
follow the record and proceeding in the state court, containing the petition and affidavit of D'Arbel that he was a Spanish subject. Thus it will be seen, that this record or proceeding in the state court, was introduced into the United States
district court, by D'Arbel himself, as the grounds upon which
he claimed a right to have his cause tried in a court of the
United States. It was therefore evidence offered by him originally in the district court of the United States, and it does not
lie with him now to say that that record was not duly authenticated, when introduced by him into the United States district
court. It was not offered in evidence in the present case, as
coming directly from the state court, and all objections to the
authentication by the clerk of the state court, were, if well
founded, misapplied. This record, as offered to the circuit
court on the trial of this cause, came from the district court of
the United States, and the proceedings and oath relied upon,
were then introduced by D'Arbel himself.
Whether the district court of the United States was bound
to receive this as satisfactory evidence of the right of D'Arbel
to remove the cause from the state court, is not at all material.
It was received by the United States district court as sufficient,
and the cause was removed and proceeded in accordingly
But there can be no doubt, that the United States court .had
a right to examine and decide for itself upon the grounds on
which D'Arbel claimed to have his cause removed into the
United States court. That court had a right to decide upon
its own jurisdiction and remand the cause, if sufficient grounds

SUPREME COURT
(Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

for a removal were not shown. It cannot surely be in the power
of the state court to compel the United States court to assume
jurisdiction.
The third exception on the part of the defendant is to the
ruling of the court upon the plaintiff's prayer, which is as
follows. The evidence having been given, as set forth in the
two prior exceptions by the plaintiffs, which is to be considered
as forming a part of this exception, the defendant, further to
support the issue, on the plea in abatement, gave in evidence
by competent witnesses, that the said D'Arbel declared himself to have been a native Frenchman and born near the
borders between France and Spain, and that the said D'Arbel,
mentioned in the foregoing evidence, is the same D'Arbel
Thereupon the
mentioned in the commission aforesaid.
plaintiffs prayed the court, that if the defendant offers no other
evidence on the issue joined on the defendant's plea of abatement, than there is now before the jury, that then the plaintiffs
are entitled to the verdict, if the jury believe the plaintiffs' evidence. Which prayer was granted by the court.
This prayer is rather obscurely stated, and the real point
intended to be raised is not very apparent. Evidence had
been given both as to the defendant and plaintiff; and the
prayer would seem to ask the court to instruct the jury, that
the plaintiffs were entitled to the verdict if the jury believed the plaintiffs' evidence, and the court so instructed the
jury. If this is the interpretation to be given to the prayer,
the instruction was erroneous. The evidence given by the
defendant was taken entirely from the consideration of the
jury, and the verdict was made to depend upon their belief of
the plaintiffs' evidence. But the decision upon this exception
is not very important, as it will not affect the result upon the
present writ of error, and it is not likely it will arise in the
same form on another trial and this remark applies to 'the
two remaining exceptions on the merits arising on the
accounts offered in evidence, and the decision and instructions
given by the court thereupon. Questions of law and fact,
growing out of the prayers and instructions on this part of the
case, are so blended, and presented in such a shape, that it is
extremely difficult to decide upon them, and as the cause
must go back, and as these matters may not be presented on

JANUARY TERM 1835.

703

[Urtetiqui v. D'Arbel and others.]

another trial under the same aspect, these questions may become immaterial, and we pass them by without any decision.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
sent back with directions to issue a venire de novo.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the Umted States for the district
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is adjudged and ordered by this court, that the
judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same
is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

