SUPREME COURT.

8

UNITED STATESr,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V JOSEPH NOURSE.

The treasury department of the United States, on the 14th of July 1829, issued
a warrant of distress directed to the marshal of the District of Columbia, commanding him to levy and collect, by distress and sale of his goods and chattels, a sum of money alleged to be due to the United States, on a treasury
transcript, by Joseph Nourse,late register of the treasury. This warrant was
issued in pursuance of the 3d and 4th sections of the act of May 15th 1820,
"providing for the better orgamzation of the treasury department." Under
the provisions of the 4th section of the act, Mr Nourse obtained an injunction from the chiefjustice of the District of Columbia to stay all further proceedings on the said warrant. The bill presented by Mr Nourse to the
chief justice of the District of Columbia asserted that the United States were
indebted to him for compensation for extra services he had rendered to the
United States; in a sum exceeding the amount claimed by the United
States: which claim was denied in the answer filed by the district attorney
of the United States, both as to the legality and the amount of the claim.
The court determined that Mr Joseph Nourse was entitled to compensation
for the extra services he had rendered to the government, in the agencies
mentioned in the bill; and appointed auditors to ascertain the value of
his services and compensation, and to report thereon without delay. The
report of the auditors allowed to the complainant a commission of two and
a half per cent, on the sum of 943,308 dollars and 83 cents, disbursedby him
in the several agencies in which he had been employed, leaving a balance
due to him from the United States. The report was confirmed, and the injunction made perpetual.
The United States then instituted their suit against Joseph Nourse in the
circuit court for the District of Columbia, in the county of Washington, on
an account authenticated according to law, by the proper accounting officers, being the same account, and claiming the same amount as in the
warrant of distress, and on which the decree of the chiefjustice was pronounced. It was agreed that the defendant should have the benefit of the
proceedings in that case, as if the same had been pleaded and given in evidence. The circuit court adjudged the proceedings in the former action a
bar to this action.
By the Court. It is a rule to which no exceptionis recollected, that the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, while unreversed, concludes the
subject matter as between the same parties. They cannot again bring it
into litigation.
An execution is the end of the law. It gives the successful party the fruits
of his judgment, and the distress warrant is a most effective execution. It
may act on the body and estate of the individual against whom it is directed.
It would excite some surprise if, in a government of laws and of principle,
furnished with a department whose appropriate duty is to decide questions
of right, not only between individuals, but between the government and
individuals, a ministerial officer might, at his discretion, issue this powerful

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]
process, and levy on the person, lands and chattels of the debtor, any sum
he might believe to be due, leaving to that debtor no remedy, no appeal to
the laws of his country; if he should believe the claim to be unjust. But
this anomaly does not exist; this imputation cannot be cast on the legislaturo of the United States.
Under the act of congress the chief justice of the District of Columbia had
full jurisdiction over the case.
After a reference to auditors, according to the course of courts of chancery in
matters of account~a final decree was pronounced against the United States,
and a perpetual injunction awarded. This decree is now in full force, and
was in force when this suit was instituted. The act of congress gave jurisdiction in the specific case to the district judge. He might have enjoined
the whole or a part of the warrant. His decree might have been for or
against the United States for the whole or a part of the claim. On the sum
which he found to be due, he is directed to assess the lawful interest; he
may add such damages as, with the interest, shall not exceed the rate of ten
per cent per annum on the principal sum. Had the district judge finally
enjoined a part of the sum claimed by the United States, and decreed that
the residue should be paid with interest, all would perceive the unfitness of
asserting a claim in a new action to that portion of the debt which had been
enjoined by the decree of the court. And yet, between the obligation of a
decree against the whole claim, and against a part of it, no distinction is
perceived.
The relief which is given by the act of congress, on which the warrant of distress may be issued by application to any district judge of the United States
for aninjunction to stay proceedings on such warrantis notconfined to an officer employed in the civil, military or naval departments of the government
to disburse the public money appropriated for the service of those departments respectively, who shall fail to render his accounts, or pay over in the
manner required by law, any sum of money remaining in the hands of
such officer.
When the legislature turns its attention to the individual against whom the
warrant may issue, the language of the law is immediately changed. The
word person is substituted for officer; and it declares, "that if any person
should consider himself aggrieved by any warrant issued under this act, he
may prefer a bill of complaint, &c.," and thereupon the judge may grant an
injunction, &c.
The character of the individual against whom the warrant may be issued is
entirely disregarded by that part of the law. Be he whom he may, an
officer or not an officer, a debtor or not a debtor; if the warrant be levied
on Ins person or property, he is permitted to appeal to the laws of his country, and to bring his case before the district judge, to be adjudicated by him.
The district judge had full jurisdiction over the case, and his decision is final.
The judgment on the warrant of distress, and the proceedings upon it are,
consequently, a bar to any subsequent action for the same cause.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States of the district of Columbia, for the county of Washington.
This was an action of assumpsit instituted by the United
VOL. IX.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Noursoe]

States in the circuit court, on an account stated at the treasury
of the United States, against "Joseph Nourse, late register of
the treasuryof the United States." The account was dated "auditor's office, 28th of July 1829," showing a balance in favour
of the plaintiffs, of that day, of 11,769 dollars and 13 cents, and
was duly and regularly certified, according to the provisions of
the acts of congress, by the officers of the treasury. The defendant pleaded non assumpsit.
The cause was submitted to the circuit court on an agreement of the parties, stating that the suit was brought upon a
transcript from the treasury, which was annexed to a record in
a former proceeding, originating in the district court of the district of Columbia, and brought before the supreme court by
appeal. It was also agreed, that the defendant should have
the benefit of the proceedings in that case, as if the same had
been pleaded, or, as if given in evidence upon the trial. That
upon this statement judgment should be given as on a case
agreed, and that either party should be at liberty to refer to the
printed record in the case of the United States v. Nourse, as if
tie same were fully incorporated in the record. See 6 Peters
470.
The circuit court gave judgment for the defendant, and the
United States prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for
the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Coxe, for the defendant.
For the United States, the attorney-general said, that the
only question m the case was whether the proceedings against
the defendant, under the warrant of distress, and the decision
of the district judge in that case, were conclusive, and a bar
to further action by the United States. The court will examine particularly the case in 6 Peters 470.
He contended, that the whole object of the act of congress
of 1820, 3 Story's Laws U. S. 1791, in giving to a public
debtor, " an officer" of the United States, who -bad received
public money, a ight to apply to a district judge of the United
States, when a warrant of distress was issued against him, was
to ascertain whether the United States were entitled to the
summary process of a distress warrant to which they had

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

resorted. This construction of this act will regulate the case
before the court. An examination of the third section of the
act, 3 Story 1794, will fully maintain, that if the United States
do not think proper to avail themselves of that act, they may
proceed against their debtors as in other cases.
It is admitted by the plaintiff in error, that if this court had
decided that the proceedings in the former case were judicial,
they would be conclusive. But the contrary has been the decision, and they have been held not to be judicial in their
nature.
The true view of the law is, that in cases where it is perfectly clear on the books of the treasury, that there is indebtedness by a public officer for public money received by him, the
proceedings by distress warrant may be resorted to, and if the
party submits to it, there is an end of the matter. But if lie
thinks proper to apply to the district judge and satisfies him,
the judge may restrain the United States from proceeding
further on the execution. Afterwards the United States may
sue for the debt claimed by them in the usual form, and as if
the distress warrant had not, issued. By this construction of
the law, both the United States, and the defendant in the suit,
have secured the right of a trial by a jury; while, by a different
version of the law, this right is entirely taken away
But supposing the proceeding in a proper case, and one
which the law was intended to comprehend, may be final, the
case set up in bar to this suit was not such a case. It does not
appear that the person against whom the distress warrant
issued, was "an officer" within the act of 1820.
The general rules as to the conclusiveness of judicial proceedings are perfectly settled. No one is to be twice vexed for
the same matter, and former proceedings are a complete bar to
all subsequent actions for the same cause of action, and may
be pleaded and given in evidence as an estoppel.
This case may stand for the consideration of the court, as if
the former proceedings had been regularly pleaded in bar.
When in cases of such a character, or resting on the plea of
former proceedings, it appears that the merits have not been
decided, as in cases of "nonsuit" and "retraxit," the matters
may be examined and decided upon in a subsequent suit.
Starkie's Evidence, part 2, p. 198, and the cases referred to.

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Nourse.]

It must distinctly appear that the merits were examined.
3 Wendall's Rep. 27, 33, 8 Wendall's Rep. 9.
In the bill filed by the defendant in the case in 6 Peters,
Mr Nourse took the ground that the money charged to him in
the treasury transcript, had not been received by him as "an
officer of the treasury," but as a mere "agent" of that department. He claimed in his bill that the term "officer" in the
act of congress, was applicable only to those who in such a
capacity received the money charged to him, and which formed
the items of the account. 6 Peters 405. The other matters
in the bill alleged that nothing was due to the United States,
but that a balance was due to the complainant. Thus it appears that one of the material grounds for the application
made to the district judge, was that the money was not received by Mr Nourse as an "officer."
In the case of Randolph,(a) which came before the chief justice of this court
(a) The Reporter, desirous of preserving the learned and valuable opinions
of Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL and Judge BARBOURn, has procured corrected
copies of them, and they follow
EX PARTE ROBERT B. RANDOLPH.
Circuit Court of the United States, held zn the Capitolat Richmond, December
21, 1833. ChiefJustice Mfarshall and Judge P P Barbour, composing the
Court.
Ospxsso oF JuDen BAnou.-This is a habeas corpus, issued by this court,
upon the application of Robert B. Randolph, alleging that he was imprisoned
by the marshal of the eastern district of Virginia, without lawful authority.
The marshal returns as the cause of the detainer of the party, a warrant of
distress, issued by the solicitor of the treasury of the United States, against
Randolph, for a sum of money stated 3n the warrant to be due from him to
the United States, and which he has failed to pay in the manner, and at the
time required by law; which warrant was issued under the third section of
the act of the 15th of May 1820, concerning the treasury department. From
the warrant, and the account annexed, to it, and referred to, as part of it, it appears that the sum claimed from the party, is claimed as being due from him,
a lieutenant in the navy, as acting purser, on board the frigate Constitution,
for his transactions in that character in the year 1828. It appears, from
another document produced by the party, duly authenticated by the fourth
auditor and sanctioned by the comptroller, that Randolph had, in October
1828, settled his account as acting purser on board the Constitution, but,
notwithstanding this previous settlement, the account on which the warrant
of distress was issued, under which the party is imprisoned, is one stated at
the treasury of the United States, in February 1833, against him as late acting
purser of the frigate Constitution, for the same period embraced in the ac-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

and the district judge of the eastern district of Virginia, in the
circuit court of that district, it was decided that it must appear
in the account for which a distress warrant shall issue, that the
money claimed has been received by the debtor to the United
States as an officer. The statute, it was held, should be construed strictly.
count above mentioned to have been settled in October 1828, the present
fourth auditor of the treasury, having opened the former account, and restated it, so as to produce tie result stated ia the account of February 1833,
before mentioned, upon the ground, as appears from the face of this last account, of the subsequent discovery of errors and omissions, since the settlement of that of 1828.
Upon this state of facts, the party's counsel have argued, that he is entitled
to be discharged, and in the course of the argument, have brought into discussion, many and various points, the first of which is of the gravest import:
it calls in question directly, the constitutionality of the act of congress, under
which this proceeding is had. The decision of a question of this sort, is certainly the highest, and most solemn function, which the judiciary could be
called upon to perform, for, as was said with sententious brevity by the court,
in one of the earliest cases on this subject, it involves the inqmry, whether
the will of the representatives, as expressed in the law, is, or is not, in conflict, with the will of the people, as expressed in the constitution. Great,
however, as is the responsibility involved in this exercise ofjudicial power, I
should meet it without difficulty, if it were necessary to the decision of this
cause. But I fully concur in the sentiment of counsel, that whilst, on a proper occasion, it ought to be met with firmness, on the other hand, it is the
part of wisdom, to decline the decision of such a question when not necessary.
From the view which I have taken of this case, I do not consider it necessary, and shall therefore pass it without further remark. It is wholly irrelafive to the merits of this case, to inquire, whether there may not have been
error committed by the auditor, in the stating of the account, on which this
proceeding is founded , because, we are not sitting here, to reverse this case,
as an appellate court, on a writ of error, nor, is it before us, as the proceedings
of special jurisdictions in England are before the king's bench, by certiorari. In either of those aspects, the decision which we should be called upon
to make, would depend upon the result of the inquiry, whether there was or
was not, error in the proceedings; but, sitting as we are, upon a habeas copus, the question is not, whether there is error in the proceedings, but whether
there was jurisdiction of the case, in the auditor of the treasury. It was settled as early as the great Blarshalsea case, in 10 Coke 76, and the principle
has never been departed from, that where a court has jurisdiction, and proceeds in verso ordine, or erroneously, there the proceeding is only voidable,
but where the court has not jurisdiction of the case, there the whole proceeding is coram non judice, and void. the books, both English and American,
abound in cases exemplifying this principle.
But a habeas corpus will not lie, where the imprisonment is under voidable process, but only where it is merely void; for void process is the same thing
as if there were none at all, and then the party is in effect imprisoned, with-

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Nourse.]

It will be said that the district judge proceeded, in the former
case, on the ground that Mr Nourse was "an officer ;" that
be took jurisdiction of the case upon that view of it, but it is
submitted to this court that this must manifestly appear, it
must be fully and clearly established, that in the decree, or
opinion of the judge, he was an officer within the intendment
out any authority whatever. Hence the question would seem naturally to
arise, whether the auditor had jurisdiction in the case-in other words, whetber the person and the subject matter are such as to bring the case within
the provisions of the act of congress-for these are the criteria of jurisdiction.
This question was elaborately argued at the bar, and I have considered it with
great care. I forbear, however, to enter into the discussion of it here ; because, although it should be clearly made out, that the auditor had once had
jurisdiction, yet upon the facts in this case, another question arises, which, in
my opinion, is decisive of the case, and that is, after the auditor shall once
have settled an account of a public officer, and closed it, as in this case, is it
competent for lm at an after time, upon an allegation of error, or omission,
or for other cause, to open it, re-state it, and upon the account thus re-stated,
to institute proceedings by a warrant of distress against the debtor? Ithink
it is not. Let us try the question by reference to some analogous cases. I
take it to be a sound principle, that when a special tribunal is created, with
limited power, and a particular jurisdiction, that whenever the power given
is once executed, the jurisdiction is exhausted and at an end-that the person
thus invested with power is, in the language of the law, functus officio.
This proposition is, I think, sustained by the case in 6 Bingham 85, where
it is said by the court, that when a magistrate, who has power to convict,
has once convicted, his jurisdiction is at an end-he is functus officio. Could
he, at any after time, upon some supposed error, quash, or in any way impair
the efficiencyof his own conviction? Suppose a controversy to have been submitted to arbitrators, and that they had made a final award, and delivered it,
could they afterwards, on their own mere motion, change or set aside their
own award ? Lest, howeyer, it might be supposed that there might be any
thing peculiar in this case, by reason of their being judges of the parties' own
choosing, let us suppose some cases of special jurisdiction, or powers given
by law. Under the adts imposing direct taxes, assessors were appointed to
value the lands and slaves of the country, with a view to a just apportionment. After they had made and completed their assessment, so that it was
once communicated, agreeably to the requirements of the law, could they afterwards, in any manner, have altered it, so as to change the valuation
Suppose that commissioners of bankruptcy had once decided in a given case
-that the party was a trader, that he had committed an act of bankruptcyand had, in all respects, completely executed the power conferred upon them,
could they afterwards, by their own authority, have vacated, or set aside their
act? Finally, suppose that the commissioners appointed (under any one of
the treaties, under which we procured an indemnity from Spain, France or
Naples) to adjudge the claims of.our citizens, had fully executed that trusthad made and announced an entire distribution of the fund-could they, at
an after time, -have varied their own adjudication? In all the cases which I

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

of the statute, and this is not the fact. In the former case, a
reference of the accounts between the United States and the
complainant in the bill, was made to auditors. The credits
claimed against the balance of the account stated at the
treasury, were founded on items of expenditures made by Mr
Nourse, as agent for their disbursement, and a perpetual inhave put, I inquire into the power of the special jurisdiction, of its own more
authority to alter or impair, what they had done. Examples might be indefinitely multiplied-these are sufficient to illustrate my idea, viz. that whenever a special jurisdiction has once executed the power with which it was invested, their power is at an end, as to the subject in relation to which it has
been executed. Let us trace the injurious consequences of a contrary doctrine. Until the power of the auditor is once executed, the officer knows
that it is his duty to account, and having accounted, to pay. But if, after the
account had once been stated and closed, he could open it again, how often,
and within what period of time, shall he do it? There is obviously no limitation, either as to length of time, or to frequency. Suppose, after once stating it, and then opening it and re-stating it upon alleged error, he should
think lie had discovered error, he must open and re-state it again. It will be
observed, too, that- though the auditor in this case did give the party notice,
the law does not require it, unless, therefore, lie shall be restrained to one
settlement, it would be competent to him, years after the death of the original
party, without notice, in the absence of his representatives, who might be
dispersed through the United States, and in the absence of all proof on their
part, to resettle the account in a manner which would produce great injustice.
But, again if it be competent to him to open the account in favour of the
United States, the converse of the proposition must be equally true, upon the
principles of justice, .it must be competent to him also, after the lapse of
years, to open it against the United States, and in favour of the party. Might
not this course most injuriously afFect the public interest? It seems to me,
that a doctrine, which leads to such consequences, cannot be sound, and that
the government is not without ample remedy, though this power shall be
denied to the auditor. I suppose there can be no doubt, that a bill in equity
would lie, to surcharge and falsify, as in case of a settled account between
individuals, and moreover, according to the doctrine of the Supreme Court,
11 Wheat. 237, even at law, although a settled account would be prima facie
evidence, yet it could recover, upon proving mistakes or omissions, any sum,
of which it had been thus unjustly deprived. Nobody doubts the power of
the auditor to settle the accounts of the public officers from time to time, as
they shall fail to account, or pay, any sums accruing after previous settlements; the objection is, to re-settling an account once settled, and which
must have imported to have been a full and final settlement, at the time when
made, for the law requires that to be done.
I have felt some difficulty upon the question, whether a habeas corpus could
be sustained in favour of a party imprisoned under civil process, as in this
case. The difficulty arose from the doubt expressed by two high authorities,
although decided by neither. In Ex parte Wilson, 6 Cranch 52, the party was
arrested by a capias ad satisfaciondum, and was in prison bounds. An applica-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Nourse.]

junction was awarded. It does not appear in the decree, what
the decision of the judge was, as to the capacity in which Mr
Nourse acted, in the receipt of the money, nor does he say
any thing to negative or affirm the fact. Nor is it material to
the claim of the United States that the proceeding is not a bar
to this suit, that this did not appear. It is enough that the
tion was made for a habeas corpus, on the ground, that the creditor had refused
to pay his daily allowance. The court said it was not satisfied that a habeas
corpus was the proper remedy, in a case of arrest, under civil process. In 15
Johns. 152, the supreme court of New York, except one of the judges, express
the same doubt, and refer to the case in Cranch. The judge, in delivering
the opinion of the court, says, if it were necessary to decide the point, he
should say, it would not lie in such a case.
I suppose that probably the doubt originated from this fact. The celebrated
habeas corpus act of 31 Charles 2d, which, as judge Kent, in his Commentaries, says, is the basis of almost all the American statutes on the subject, and
which, in practice, by reason of its valuable provisions for insuring speedy
action, has almost superseded the common law, has been held in England to be
confined to criminal cases. All the judges of England in answer to a question
propounded to them by the house of lords, answered. That it did not extend
to any case of imprisonment, detamner, or restraint whatsoever, except cases
of commitment for criminal or supposed criminal matters, 3 Baa. 438, note.
At the same time this question, in substance, was put to them: whether if a
person imprisoned apply for a habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, at common law,
and make affidavit that he does not believe that his imprisonment is by virtue
of a commitment, for any criminal, or supposed criminal matter, would such
affidavit, as the law then stood, be probable cause for awarding the writ? The
question being objected to, was not put. This would seem to leave the point
in an unsettled state. Yet there are two books of authority, which, I think,
sustain the doctrine, that the writ is not confined to crmnal cases. Blackstone, in his 3d vol. p. 132, says, that the great and efficacious writ zn all
manner of illegal confincment is the habeas corpus ad subjiciendum. Bacon,
3d vol. 421, says: whenever a person is restrained of his liberty, by being
confined in a common jail, or by a private person, whether it be for a criminal
or eiviZ cause-he may regularly, by habeas corpus, have his body and cause
removed to some superior jurisdiction, &c.
Now the act of congress authorizes us to issue the writ, "for the purpose
of inquiring into the cause of commitment."
Upon this, the supreme court,
in 3 Peters 201, Ex parte Watkins, remarks, "that no law of the United States
prescribes the cases in which this great writ shall be issued, nor the power of
the court over the party brought up by it. The term is used in the constitution as one which was well understood. This general reference to a power
which we are required to exercise without any precise definition ofthat power,
imposes on us the necessity of making some inquiry into its use, according to
that law, which is, in a considerable degree, incorporated in our own."
If, in malung this inquiry, we were to consult the British statute alone, we
should find it, as already stated, confined, in its construction, to criminal
cases.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.J

allegation was made by Mr Nourse, that he did not act as "an
offieer," in making the disbursements, and that the judge so
decided the case. The judge says that the services were extraofficial, that the sums due as an offset, were for services not
official, and that the money received from the United States,
was not received by him as register of the treasury.
But, if we look to the common law authorities which I have mentioned, it
seems to me, that we are justified in applying it to a case of civil process.
Indeed, we know it to have been repeatedly applied in England to the domestic relations of life, such as the liberation of a wife from the unjust restraint
of a husband, and a child from that of a parent.
And certainly, we are well warranted in maung this reference to the common law; because, although it is admitted by all, that it is not a source of
jurisdiction, yet it is habitually, rightfully, nay, necessarily referred to for
the definition and application of terms-indeed, there are many terms in the
constitution which could not otherwise be understood.
Nor do even the doubts expressed in the cases from Cranch and Johnson
apply to this; for both of those were on process of civil execution, issuing
from a court of record and general jurisdiction; whereas, this is a case of process, issuing from a special jurisdiction, which can neither be supervised by
certiorari, nor re-examined by writ of error. In this case then, if a habeas
corpus would not lie, there would be no relief from imprisonment without
lawful authority. In cases of execution from courts of record, the courts
themselves can quash it, if it do not conform to the judgment, if it do, and
that judgment be erroneous, it can be corrected in a court of appellate jurisdiction. Upon the whole view of the subject, I am of opinion that the party
should be discharged.
OPrINoN oF CHIEF JUSTICE MArRsALL.-Robert B. Randolph, late acting
purser of the frigate Constitution, was brought into court, on a writ of habeas
corpus, and a motion is now made for his discharge from imprisonment.
The writ was directed to the marshal of this district, in whose custody he
is. The return of the officer shows the cause of caption and detention to be
a warrant issued by the accounting officers of the treasury, under authority
of the act passed the 15th day of May 1820 ; which, after reciting that Robert
B. Randolph, late acting purser of the United States frigate Constitution,
stands indebted to the United States in the sum of 25,097 dollars and 83 cents,
agreeably to the settlement of his account made by the proper accounting
officers of the treasury, and has failed to pay it over according to the "1act for
the better organization of the treasury department," commands the said mar.
shal to make the said sum of 2.5,097 dollars and 83 cents out of the goods and
chattels of the said Randolph, and in default thereof, to commit his body to
prison, there to remain until discharged by due cours& of law. If these proceedings fail to produce the said sum of money, the warrant is to be satisfied
out of his lands and tenements.
The return shows that the body of the said R. B. Randolph was committed
to prison, and is detained by virtue of this process.
Several objections have been taken to the legality of the warrant, the first
VOL. IX.-C

SUPREME COURT
[United States v Nourse.]

Because the United States submitted to the proceeding, it
has not validity. All the proceedings, after the warrant of
seizure, would be illegal, if the government had not a right to
issue it and no act of the officers of the United States could
be of avail, to give it validity.
Suppose the warrant had issued by direction of the solicitor
and most important of which is, that the act of congress, under the authority
of which it issued, is repugnant to the constitution of the United States. If
this objection be sustained, the warrant can certainly convey no authority to
the officer who has executed it, and the imprisonment of Mr Randolph is unlawful.
The counsel of the prisoner rely on several parts of the constitution, which
they suppose to have been violated by the act in question. The first section
of the third article, which establishes the judicial department, and the seventh
amendment, which secures the trial by jury in suits at common law, are particularly selected as having been most obviously violated.
No questions can be brought before a judicial tribunal of greater delicacy
than those which involve the constitutionality of alegislative act. If they
become indispensably necessary to the case, the court must meet and decide
them, but if the case may be determined on other points, a just respect for
the legislature requires that the obligation of its laws should not be unnecessarily and wantonly assailed.
The act of congress, under the authority of which the process by which Mr
Randolph is imprisoned was issued, makes it the duty of certain officers of
the treasury to settle and cause to be stated the account of any collector of
the revenue, &c. who shall fail to render his account or pay over the same in
the manner or in the time required by law, exhibiting truly the amount due
to the United States, and certifying the same to the agent of the treasury,
who is authorized and required to issue a warrant of distress against such
delinquent officer and his sureties, directed to the marshal of the district in
which such delinquent officer and his surety or sureties shall reside; which
officer is commanded to make good the money appearing to be due'to the
United States, by seizing and selling tha goods and chattels of such delinquent
officer and his sureties, and by committing the body of such delinquent officer
to prison, there to remain until discharged by due course.of law.
If this ascertainment of the sum due to the government, and this issuing of
process to levy the sum so ascertained to be due, be the exercise of any part
of the judicial power of the United States, the law which directs it, is plainly
a violation of the first section of the third article of the constitution, which
declares, that " the judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one
supreme court, and in such inferior courts as congress shall from time to time
ordain and establish. The judges, both of the supreme and inferior courts,
shall held their offices during good behaviour." The judicial power extends
to '1 controversies to which the United states shall be a party."
The persons who are directed by the act of congress to ascertain the debt
due from a delinquent receiver of public money, and to issue process to compel the payment of that debt, do not compose a court ordained and established
by congress, nor do they hold offices during good behaviour. Their offices

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

of the treasury, who has no authority to order it, and no exception had been taken to it, would the proceedings under it
have had a legal existence I As it may be considered that
the decree was made by the district judge, on the allegation, in
the bill for the injunction, that the money was not received as
an officer, this court will not infer that this was the point decided.
are held at the pleasure of the president of the United States. They are consequently incapable of exercising any portion of the judicial power, and the
act which attempts to confer it is absolutely void. In considering the validity
of this act, therefore, it is necessary to discard every idea of its conferring
judicial power. We must not view the statement or certificate of the account
as a judgment, or the warrant which coerces payment as judicial process.
They must be viewed as mere ministerial acts performed by mere ministerial
agents. They cannot be otherwise sustained.
I will for the present assume that the power of collecting taxes and of disbursing the money of the public, may authorise the legislature to enact laws
by which the agents of the executive may be empowered to settle the accounts
of all receiving and disbursing officers, and to issue process in the nature of
an execution to compel the payment of any sum alleged to be due. But these
agents are purely ministerial, and their acts are necessarily to be treated only
as ministerial acts. The inevitable consequence is, that their validity must
be decided by those legal principles which govern all acts of this character.
These require that the authority, whether given by a legislative act or otherwise, must be strictly pursued. Such agents cannot act on other persons or
on other subjects than those marked out in the power, nor can they proceed
in a manner different from that it prescribes.
This is a general rule, applicable to such cases generally it applies with
peculiar force to that now before the court.
I will not attempt to detail the severities and the oppression which may
follow in the train of this law, if executed in contested cases. They have
been brought into full view by counsel, in their arguments, and I will not
again present them. It may be said with confidence, that the legislature has
not passed any act which ought, in its construction, to be more strictly confined to its letter. By this rule its words will be examined.
The first objection to this warrant is, that Mr Randolph is not one of those
persons on whom the law was designed to operate.
The act does not declare that every debtor of the public shall be subject to
this summary process. The particular persons against whom it may be used
are enumerated. Those stated in the second section are, "1any collector of
the revenue, receiver of the public money, or any other officer who shall have
received the public money before it is paid into the treasury of the United,
States." The obvious construction of these words is, I think, that they describe persons who hold offices under government, to whose hands the public
money comes before it reaches the treasury. A collector of the revenue is an
officer of this description, so is a receiver of the public money; and the following words, "or other officer who shall have received the public money
before it is paid into the treasury of the United States," demonstrated the kind

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Nourse.]

Mr Coxe, for the defendant, contended that the whole proceedings in the case which is reported in 6 Peters, were judicial. Two grounds for relief were presented to the district
judge. The judge ordered the accounts between the United
States and Mr Nourse to be audited, thus passing by one of
the grounds, and considering Mr Nourse as "an officer;" and
of persons who were in the mind of the legislature. The subsequent
words
preserve the idea, that regularly appointed officers only were intended.
The
word officer is retained, and is regularly used throughout the section,
showing
plainly, that no other debtor than one who was properly designated
by the
term officer was contemplated by the act. Throughout the section
too, the
sureties of such officer are regularly connected with him, and subjected
to the
same process, so far as respects their property. I donotmean to
say that the
liability of the officer is made to depend on his having actually
executed an
official bond with sureties. I do not mean to say that an officer,
regularly appointed, who should receive the money of the public before the
execution of
his bond, might'not be liable to this treasury execution. But I
mean to say,
that this language proves incontestably that the legislature contemplated
those
officers only, who were reqmred to give bond with surety, as the
objects of the
law. The sureties are spoken of throughout, as inseparable from
the officer,
as existing whenever the officer exists.
This section does not comprehend the case of a purser in the
navy, but I
have thought it necessary to enter into its exposition; because it has a material bearing on the third section, which does comprehend persons of
that
description.
The third section enacts, ccthat if any officer employed, or who has been
heretofore employed in the civil, military or naval departments of the government, to disburse the public money appropriated to the service of these departments, shall fail to render his accounts, or to pay over in the manner,
and in
the time required by law or the regulations of the department to which he is
accountable, any sum of money remaining in the hands of such officer, it shall
be the duty," &c.
Towhat persons does the word officer, asused in this section, apply, Isitto
every commissioned officer in the army or navy of the United States to whose
hands any public money may be entrusted, or is it to those officers only whose
regular duty it is to receive and disburse the public money, and who are appointed for thatpurpose ? The language of the sentence, I think, answers these
questions to a reasonable certainty. It is ccany officer employed to disburse the
public money appropriated to the service of these departments respectively."
A military or naval officer is employed for military or naval duties, not to disburse the public money appropriated to the service of his department. Icannot suppose, that a military or naval officer to whose hands money belonging
to the public may come, is, from the words of the act, more liable to this summary and severe proceeding than any individual not bearing a commission, to
whom the same money might be confided for similar purposes. The subsequent words of the sentence, IIshall fail to render his accounts, or to pay over
in the manner and in the time required by law, or the regulations of the
department to which he is accountable,' &c., also convey the idea that a

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

deciding the case, after the report of the auditors, in that view
of it. As to the nature of such a proceeding, he cited 5 Dane's
Abridgement 223, "where one acts as a judge, and the matter is within his jurisdiction, his sentence binds, until reversed."
In awarding the injunction, be acted judicially, and no other
regular disbursing officer, whose duty was prescribed by law or by the regulations of the department, was contemplated. This idea is still more strongly
supported by that part of the section which adopts all the provisions of the
second section, and applies them to the sureties of the officer who is designated
by the act, as well as to the officer himself. I think then, the fair construction
of the law is, that regularly 'appomted officers who are required to give official
bonds, were alone contemplated by the legislature. If we take into consideration the character and operation of the act, the extreme severity of its provisions, that it departs entirely from the ordinary course uf judicial proceeding,
and prescribes an extreme remedy, which is placed under the absolute control
of a mere ministerial officer, that in such a case the ancient established rule
is in favour of a strict construction, my own judgment is satisfied that this is
the true construction.
Was Mr Randolph an officer of this description?
The process by authority of which he is ii prison, designates him as ii Robert B. Randolph, late acting purser of the United States frigate Constitution." The word acting qualifies the word purser, and shows that he did not
hold that office under a regular appointment, but for the, time being during
the existing emergency. The omission to include his sureties in the warrant,
as the law directs, shows that he had given no sureties; and this fact unexplained, is evidence that no official bond with sureties was required. It might
be added, that the explanatory accounts, to some of which reference is made
m the warrant, prove with sufficient clearness that Mr Timberlake was purser
of the frigate Constitution, then cruising m the Mediterranean, and that on
his death lieutenant Randolph was directed to perform the duties of purser
during the cruise. It is then apparent that he was a mere acting, and not a
regular purser.
Mr Nicholas has contended, with much plausibility, that having taken upon
himself the office, he takes upon himself also all its responsibilities. This
argument is true to a certain extent, and, as far as respects responsibility
alone, is unanswerable. In a regular proceeding against Mlr Randolph, no
person will be hardy enough to deny his responsibility to the same extent as
if he had been a regular purser.
It is not his responsibility to the United States, but his liability to this particular process, which is the subject of inquiry. Is a mere acting purser designated by this law as one of those officers against whom this summary process maybe used? It is in vain to say that he comes within the same reason,
and is within the mischief against which the statute intended to provide.
The statute does not reach all public debtors, and has selected especially
those for which it is intended. No others can be brought within its purview.
Those principles of strict construction, which apply, I think, to all laws restrictive of common right, forbid it.

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Nourse.

view can be taken of his action in this case, when the record
and the decree are examined. In the case of the Arredondo,
6 Peters 709, 711, this court have said the power to hear and
determine a cause, is jurisdiction, it is coram judice, whenever
a cause is presented which brings this power into action,
6 Peters 709. All questions arising in the case are to be deThese reasons satisfy my own judgment, that 1Ir Randolph was not an
officer to whom the law applies the process under which he is imprisoned.
If it were necessary to assign any reasons for this distinction between temporary and permanent -officers, it would not be difficult to find them. The
permanent officer usually receives his money from the treasury, or by its order, so that the document which charges him, appears on the books of that
department. The temporary officer will seldom be placed under the same
circumstances. He may, and generally does, receive the money with which
he ischargeable, n such a manner as to leave the amount a subjectof controversy. In this particular case, purser Timberlake must stand charged, I presume, with all the moneys advanced to the purser of the Constitution. The
portion of this money which came to the hands of Mr Randolph, would not
appear on those books, and may be a matter of controversy between him and
Timberlake's representatives. Congress might very reasonably make a distinction, when giving this summary process, between an officer whose whole
liability ought to appear on the books of the department, and an agent whose
liability was most generally to be ascertained by extrinsic testimony. But
it is enough for me, that the law inmy judgment makes the distinction.
The accounts extracted from the books of the treasury, and laid before the
court, furnish other matter for serious consideration.
The second section of the act requires, that the account stated by order of
the first comptroller of the treasury, " shall exhibit truly the amount due to
the United States." For what purpose was the word truly introduced? Surely
not to prohibit the officers of the government from exhibiting an account known
to be erroneous. Congress could not suspect such an atrocity. Its introduction, then, indicates the idea, that this summary process was to be used only
when the true amount was certainly known to the department-when the sum
of money debited to the officer appeared certain, and either no credits were
claimed, or none about which a controversy existed. The amount due to the
United States cannot be truly exhibited when the claim isshown by the account itself, to exceed what isreally due. I do not mean to say that the debtor
isnot bound to show with precision the credits to which he is entitled. I do
not mean to say how far his failure to separate payments made from his own
funds, and from those of his predecessor, may deprive him in a suit at law, of
the credits he claims. I mean to say only, that the amount claimed, is not the
sum truly due to the United States, if the account itself shows that a smaller
amount isdue. The necessity of withholding the 9redit may justify proceeding against the debtor ina court of justice, inwhich he must make good his
credits; but will not, I think, justify issuing an execution, without any judicial
inquiry, against the body and estate of the delinquent, for a sum confessedly
more than is due.
The third section omits the word truly, but requires that the account shall

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

cided, Ibid. 700. By consenting to be sued, and submitting
the decision to judicial action, the United States have considered it as a purely judicial question, Ibid. 711.
The United States, by adopting the proceeding authorised
by the act of congress of 1820, claimed that the party against
whom the warrant issued, was within the act, and in the anbe stated, and directs the agent of the treasury to proceed in the manner
directed in the preceding section, all the provisions of which are declared to
be applicable to every officer of government chargeable with the disbursement
of public money.
It may be contended, that the provisions of the preceding section thus
adopted in the third, are those only which relate to proceedings after the account is stated. But I do not think this the fair construction of the statute.
I think the legislature can no more have intended in the one case than in the
other, that a treasury execution should issue for confessedly more than is due,
by which the person of the debtor should be imprisoned, probably interminably, and his property sold. Congress must have designed to leave such cases
to the regular course of law.
Ifthese principles be correct, let them be applied to the case before the court.
Air Randolph is charged in the account on which the warrant issued, with
cash left by purser Timberlake, on board the frigate Constitution, and, according to his own confession, received by him, 11,483 dollars.
That he must account for this sum is certain. I shall not inquire now,
whether the treasury imght issue an execution for it, or ought to have applied
to a court ofjustice. I will proceed to other items of the account.
He is re-charged with slops issued by him, which belongs to the estate of
Mr Timberlake, as appeared by his books.
Is tins to be settled at the treasury, under this act of congress, or does the
inquiry properly belong to a court ofjustice ?
He is charged with German linen, belonging to his private stores, which
he turned into the navy store at Charlestown, as slops. This item had been
allowed to him on a former settlement of his accounts. It is not alleged that
this linen has been returned to him. The United States may and probably
have used it. Whether he is entitled to any, and to what credit, for this
item, is a proper inquiry for a court of justice. The treasury may refuse
the credit and refer the question to a court of justice, but cannot, I think,
issue an execution for it, as the case now stands.
The material item allowed in a former settlement of accounts and now recharged, is the amount of advances on his pay-roll to officers and men while
lie acted as purser of the Constitution, it now appearing by the memoranda of
sales, by the evidence of commodore Patterson and others, and by the general
state of the account, that portions of these advances were made out of the
money and stores of purser Timberlake, and out of the ship's stores.
I will not make the obvious objection to this item, that if Mr Randolph paid
the money or sold the stores of Mr Timberlake on his own account, he is responsible to the estate of Mir Timberlake, and that the treasury department of
the United States does not represent him, nor that credits given for money
paid by Mr Randolph as his own cannot be rescinded by alleging that the
money really belonged to another person, nor will I inquire by what authority

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Nourse.]

swer to the bill presented to the district judge by Mr Nourse,
his liability as an officer is reasserted. The district judge acted
on this state of things, and gave a final decree upon them thus
presented to him.
If the decree in this case had been in the form of chancery
proceedings in England, it would have been drawn up at large,
and the whole audit of the accounts would then appear in the
decree, and it would be seen that the very accounts upon
which the United States have now instituted this action were
the subject matter of the whole proceeding. In the case of
the Bank of the Umted States v. Ritchie, 8 Peters 128, this court
held, that although the decree did not set forth the whole of
the matters in which it was given, yet a party on a bill of review may take advantage of any thing appearing in the record.
The application of this rule is asked to the case before the
court, and the obIections on the part of the United States, that
the character and object and purpose of this suit, and of the
warrant of distress, are not shown to be the same, will not be
urged.
As to the position that it does not appear in the first proceeding that Mr Nourse was "an officer" within the objects of the
statute, it is sufficient to say, that however the money claimed
by the United States came into his hands, he was entitled to a
legal and valid set-off to the claim. The United States proceeded against him as "an officer," claiming from him a
the treasury department settles the accounts between Timberlake's repre-

sentatives and Randolph. But I will say, that this entry admits that part of
the money was paid by Randolph out of his own funds, and certainly diminished his debt to the United States to that amount. Consequently, the whole
amount for which execution issued was not due.
If I am correct in saying that this summary process can be used only to
coerce the payment of the sum actually due, not to coerce the payment of
more than is due, that such controverted question ought to be decided in a
court of justice; then this warrant has been issued in a case which the law

does not authorize-in a case which ought to have been submitted to a court
ofjustice.
On both these points I am of opinion, that the agent of the treasury has
exceeded the authority given by law, and consequently that the imprison.
ment is illegal.
I have not had time to state my opinion on the remaining point on which
my brother judge has given his opinion. It is of no importance, as I concur
with him on it.
Mr Randolph is to be discharged from custody.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

balance for money he received as the register of the treasury,
and he exhibited a set-off, beyond the whole sum demanded
by the Umted States, to the satisfaction of the auditors appointed by the district judge, which report was confirmed by his
decree.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States had instituted their suit against Joseph
Nourse in the circuit court for the District of Columbia, in the
county of Washington, on an account authenticated according
to law, by the proper accounting officers. The cause being at
issue on the plea of non assumpsit, the following case was
agreed between the parties.
"In this case it is agreed that the suit is instituted upon a
transcript from the treasury of the United States, which is annexed to the record in a former proceeding originating in the
district court of the district of Columbia, and brought before the
supreme court by appeal. And it is farther agreed, that the
defendant shall have the same benefit of the proceedings in
said case as if the same had been pleaded, or as if given in evidence upon the trial of the general issues, and upon this statement judgment shall be given as upon a case agreed, and either
party be at liberty to refer to the printed record in said case of
Nourse v. The United States, as if the same were fully incorporated into this record."
The case referred to in this special statement grew out of a
warrant of distress, issued by the treasury department on the
14th day of July 1829, directed to the marshal of the district
of Columbia, commanding him to levy and collect the sum of
11,769 dollars and 13 cents, by distress and sale of the goods
and chattels of Joseph Nourse, late register of the treasury.
This warrant was issued in pursuance of the act of May 15tb,
1820, "providing for the better organization of the treasury
department." The third section of this act enacts in substance
that "if any officer employed in the civil, military or naval departments of the government to disburse the public money
appropriated for the service of those departments respectively,
shall fail to render his accounts, or pay over in the manner reqmred by law any sum of money remaining in the hands of
VOL. IX.-D

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Nourse.]

such officer, it shall be the duty of the officer charged with the
revision of the accounts of such officer, to cause the same to be
stated to the agent of the treasury, who is required to proceed
against the delinquent in the manner directed in the preceding
section." That section directs the agent of the treasury to issue
a warrant of distress against such delinquent officer and his
sureties, directed to the marshal, who shall proceed to levy and
collect the money remaining due by distress and sale of the
goods and chattels of such delinquent officer, having given ten
days notice of such intended sale, and if the goods and chattels be not sufficient to satisfy the said warrant, the same may
be levied on the person of such officer, &c.
The fourth section provides that if any person shall consider
himself aggrieved by any warrant issued under the act, he may
prefer a bill of complaint to any district judge, setting forth the
nature and extent of the njuiry of which he complains, and
thereupon the judge may grant an injunction to stay proceedings on such warrant altogether, or for so much thereof as the
nature of the case requires; and the same proceeding shall be
had on such injunction as in other cases, except that no answer shall be required on the part of the United States.
Under the authority given by this section, an injunction was
awarded by William Cranch, chief justice of the district of
Columbia,, and judge of the court of the United States for that
district, to stay all farther proceedings on the said warrant.
In his bill, the complainant states that his public accounts as
register of the treasury of the United States, and agent of the
treasury department in disbursing certain funds, and settling
certain accounts of contingencies and other miscellaneous matters, and as agent for the joint library committees of congress,
have been settled at the treasury since his removal from office,
upon which settlement a pretended balance has been found
against him for the sum of 11,250 dollars and 26 cents, for
which a warrant of distress has been issued by the agent of
the treasury, which has been levied on his lands, tenements,
goods and chattels by the maishal of the district. That the
said account is unjust and illegal, and so far from any balance
being due thereon to the United States, a consiaerable balance
should have been struck thereon in favour of the complainant,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

as appears by an account annexed to the bill, which he declares
to be just and true.
That besides his regular duties as register, he was, from the
year 1790 till his recent dismission from office, employed by
the proper department of the government in the separate business of special agent for the disbursement of the contingent
funds of the treasury department, and for the settlement of the
numerous accounts connected therewith. These duties devolved upon him great labour and responsibility, and occupied
a great portion of his private hours. When he undertook this
branch of public employment, no stipulation was made for the
precise amount of compensation. The usage of the treasury
and other departments of the government has invariably been
to allow commissions not only to unofficial persons so employed,
but to official persons and clerks of the departments, when sch
duties were distinct from the stated duties appertaining to their
offices. That he has regularly made out and presented his
account to the proper accounting officers of the treasury,
charging his commission at the rate of two and a half per cent
on the amount of his disbursements, which, if allowed, would
leave the United States indebted to him in the sum of 9886
dollars and 24 cents, which he believes to be justly due to him.
The complainant further states that he is advised that the
act of congress under which the said warrant of distress is pretended to have been issued, being a law in derogation of common right, ought to be construed with the utmost strictness
but that on no reasonable construction can this complainant or
his accounts, either as register of the treasury, or as agent of the
joint library committees of congress, be brought within the
description of persons over whom that act gives jurisdiction to
the agent of the treasury. The bill prays 'for an injunction
and for further relief.
The United States in their answer refer to and rely on the
general account of the complainant settled by the proper officer of the government, by which he was found indebted in the
sum of 11,769 dollars and 13 cents. They admit that the
complainant had rendered an account charging a commission
of two and a half per cent on all the moneys which had passed
through his hands in the different agencies in which he had
acted, exhibiting a balance in his favour of 9367 dollars and

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Nourse.]

87 cents. They deny the right of the complainant to a commission on the moneys disbursed by him, and contend that they
were authorised by law to enforce the payment of the balance
due to the government by warrant of distress. They therefore
pray that the injunction may be dissolved, and that they may
be permitted to pursue their legal remedies for the sum due to
them.
The court determined that the said Joseph Nourse was entitled to compensation for the extra services he had rendered
to the government, in the agencies mentioned in the bill, and
appointed auditors to ascertain the value of his services and
compensation, and to report thereon without delay. The report of the auditors allowed to the complainant, a commission
of two and a half per cent, on the sum of 943,308 dollars and
83 cents disbursed by him in the several agencies in which
he had been employed, leaving a balance due to hl from the
United States.
The report was confirmed and the injunction made perpetual.
Some farther proceedings were had in that cause which do
not affect the case now before this court.
This suit is instituted on the same account on which the
distress warrant was issued, and against which the decree of
the district judge was pronounced. The defendant relies on
that decree as a bar to the action. The circuit court adjudged
it to be a bar; and that judgment is now to be revised in this
court.
It is a rule to which no exception is recollected, that the
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, while unreversed,
concludes the subject matter as between the same parties.
They cannot again bring it into litigation.
An execution is the end of the law. It gives the successful
party the fruits of his judgment, and the distress warrant is a
most effective execution. It may act on the body and estate
bf the individual against whom it is directed.
It would excite some surprise if, in a government of laws
and of pnnciple, furnished with a department whose appropriate duty it is to decide questions of right, not only between individuals, but between the government and individuals, a
ministerial officer might, at his discretion, issue this powerful

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

process, and levy on the person, lands and chattels of the
debtor, any sum he might believe to be due, leaving to that
debtor no remedy, no appeal to the laws of his country, if he
should believe the claim to be unjust. But this anomaly does
not exist, this imputation cannot be cast on the legislature of
the United States. While it was perceived that the public
interest required a prompt remedy against public defaulters,
the legislature was not unmindful of the rights of individuals,
and provided that this remedy should not be used oppressively.
The party who thinks himself aggrieved may appeal from the
decision of the treasury to the law, and prefer a bill of complaint to any district judge of the United States, setting forth
therein the nature and extent of the injury; who may grant an
injunction to stay proceedings on such warrant altogether, or
for so much thereof as the nature of the case requires. And
the same proceedings shall be had on such injunctions as in
other cases, except that no answer shall be required on the
part of the United States.
Joseph Nourse, in pursuance of the permission given by this
section, did file his bill of complaint, alleging anmong other
things, that he owed nothing to the United States, and praying the judge to enjoin all farther proceedings on the warrant.
The injunction was granted, and the whole cause thus transferred before the district judge, who was directed to proceed
therein as in other cases. He had consequently full jurisdiction over it. After a reference to auditors, according to the
course of courts of chancery in matters of account, he pronounced his final decree against the United States, and awarded
a perpetual injunction. This decree is now in full force, and
was in force when this suit was instituted. The act of congress gave jurisdiction in the specific case to the district judge.
He might have enjoined the whole or a part of the warrant.
His decree might have been for or against the United States,
for the whole or a part of the claim. On the sum which he
found to be due, he is directed to assess the lawful interest, he
may add such damages as, with the interest, shall not exceed
the rate of ten per cent per annum on the principal sum.
Had the districtjudge finally enjoined a part of the sum claimed
by the United States, and decreed that the residue should be
paid with interest, all would perceive the unfitness of asserting

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. 1ourse.]

a claim in a new action to that portion of the debt which had
been enjoined by the decree of the court. And yet between
the obligation of a decree against the whole claim, and against
a part of it, no distinction is perceived.
Aware of the difficulty of maintaining an action on a claim
on which a court of- competent jurisdiction has passed a judgment, still in force, the attorney-general questions the junsdiction of the district court, and rests his argument for the reversal of the judgment of the circuit court chiefly on this point.
He.contends, that Joseph Nourse was not an officer contemplated by the act providing for the better organization of the
treasury department, that the warrant of distress could not
legally be issued against him, and consequently, that this is
not a case in which the district court can exercise jurisdiction. He refers to the bill of complaint, which is drawn with
a double aspect. It alleges that the complainant, is not indebted to the United States, and that, were it otherwise, he is
not an officer contemplated by the act against whom a distress
warrant can legally be issued.
This argument has been considered.
Did the case depend upon the question whether Joseph
Nourse, in any of the characters in which he is charged in the
account accompanying the warrant, was an officer subjected
by law to this process, some difficulty would exist in finding in
the record sufficient information on which to decide it. The
following are the items of the account. To balance due,
As agent for the joint library committee of congress,
$2,502 55
As agent for paying the expenses of stating
and printing the public accounts,
934 98
As agent for paying the superintendant and
watchmen of the buildings occupied by the state
and treasury departments,
1,325 41
As agent for paying the expenses of printing
certificates of the public debt,
1,011 29
As agent for paying the contingent expenses of
the treasury department,
5,994 90
$11,769 13
Whether in any or all of these agencies, Joseph Nourse acted

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Nourse.]

as an officer against whom a distress warrant could legally be
issued, for any sum in which he might be found a defaulter,
the record does not furnish the means of deciding clearly But
the district court took no notice of that part of the bill which
suggests this objection. It acted on the merits of the case, and
decreed against the United States on those merits.
Still, however, the attorney-general contends, that in so
doing, it transcended its jurisdiction, and has taken cognizance
of a case which could not legally be brought before it. This
is founded entirely on the assumption that the warrant was
issued against a person not liable to it.
Let this be conceded.
It would be strange indeed if the legislature, intending to
give a prompt remedy against a particular class of debtors,
should carefully guard that class against any abuse of the
remedy; and yet leave all other persons, whether debtors or not,
exposed to that abuse that an officer liable to the process
should be enabled to correct it, if it issued injuriously, by appealing to the law and yet that an individual not liable to the
process, should be compelled to submit to the oppression and
to suffer the wrong.
The act is not chargeable with this inattention to the rights
of individuals.
The sections which regulate the proceedings of the treasury
department on the warrant, contemplate the officer against
whom it may be issued, and confine it to him but when the
legislature turns its attention to the individual against whom
it may issue, the language of the law is immediately changed.
The word person is substituted for officer, and the act declares
"that if any person should consider himself aggrieved by any
warrant issued under this act, he may prefer a bill of complaint, &c., and thereupon the judge may grant an injunction, &c."
The character of the individual against whom the warrant
may be issued is entirely disregarded by this part of the act.
Be he whom he may, an officer or not an officer, a debtor or
not a debtor; if the warrant be levied on his person or property,
he is permitted to appeal to the laws of his country, and to
bring his case before the district judge, to be adjudicated by
him.

32

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Nourse.]

The district court then had complete jurisdiction over this
case, and its decision is final. The judgment is consequently
a bar to any subsequent action for the same cause. The
judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is adjudged and ordered, that the judgment of the said circuit court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed.

