238

SUPREME COURT.

THE

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF V. JOHN BAILEY.

Kentucky. Indictment for false swearing, under the third section of the act
of congress of March 1, 1823, which declares that "any person who shall
swear or affirm falsely, touching the expenditure of public money, or in
support of any claim against the United States, shall suffer as for wilful and
corrupt perjury."
The indictment charged the false swearing to be an affidavit made before a
justice of the peace of Kentucky, in support of a claim against the United
States , under the act of congress of July 1832, to provide for liquidating
and paying certain claims of the state of Virginia.
There is no statute of the United States which expressly authorizes any justice of the peace of a state, or any officer of the national government, judicial or otherwise, to administer an oath in support of any claim against the
United States, under the act of 1823.
The secretary of the treasury, in order to carry into effect the authority given
to him to liquidate and pay the claims referred to in the act of 1832, had
pstablished a regulation authorising affidavits made before any justice of
the peace of a state to be received and considered in proof of claims under
the act. By implication he possessed the power to matce such a regulation;
and to allow such affidavits in proof of claims under the act of 1832. It was
incident to his duty and authority in settling claims under that act. When
the oath is taken before a state or national magistrate, authorized to administer oaths, in pursuance of any regulations prescribed by the treasury department, or in conformity with the practice and usage of the treasury department, so that the affidavit would be admissible evidence at the department in support of any claim against the United States, and the party
swears falsely, the case is within the provision of the act of 1823, ch. 165.
If a state magistrate shall administer an oath under an act of congress expressly giving him the power to do so, it would be a lawful oath, by one
having competent authority; and as much so as if he had been specially
appointed a commissioner under a law of the United States for that purpose:
and such an oath, administered under such circumstances, would be within
the purview of the act of 1823.
The act of 1823 does not create or punish the crime of perjury, technically
considered. But it creates a new and substantial offence of false swearing,
and punishes it in the same manner as perjury. The oath, therefore, need
not be administered in a judicial proceeding, or in a case of which the state
magistrate under the state laws had jurisdiction, so as to make the false
swearing perjury. It would be sufficient that it might be lawfully administered by the magistrate, and was not in violation of his official duty.
The language of the act of 1823 should be construed with reference to the
usages of the treasury department. The false swearing and false affirmation referred to in the act, ought to be construed to include all cases of
swearing and and affirmation required by the practice of the department in
regard to the expenditure of public money, or in support of any claims
against the United States. The language of the act is sufficiently broad to

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]
include all such cases; and there is no reason for excepting them from the
words, as they are within the policy of the act, and the mischief to be remedied.
The act does no more than change a common law offence into a statute offence.

ON a certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky
At the November term 1834, of the circuit court of the
United States for the Kentucky district, an indictment was
found against John Bailey for pe3ury and false swearing,
under the third section of the act of congress of March 1, 1823,
3 Story's Laws U. S. 1917, the thirteenth section of the act
of March 3, 1825, 3 Story's Laws U. S. 2002.
The third section of the act of March 1, 1823, "entitled an
act in addition to the act entitled an act for the prompt settlement of public accounts, and for the punishment of the crime
of perjury," is in these words "that if any person shall swear
or affirm falsely, touching the expenditure of public money, or
in support of any claim ,against the United States, he or she
shall, upon conviction thereof, suffer as for wilful and corrupt
perjury
The thirteenth section of the act of March 3, 1825,
entitled an act more effectually to provide for the punishment
of certain crimes against the United States, and for other purposes, declares: "that if any person in any case, matter, hearing, or other proceeding, where an oath or affirmation shall be
required to be taken or administered, under or by any law of
the United States, shall, upon the taking of such oath or affirmation, knowingly and willingly, swear or affirm falsely, every
person so offending shall be deemed guilty of perjury, and
shall, on conviction thereof, be punished," &c.
The indictment charged the defendant, John Bailey, with
perjury and false swearing, upon the following affidavit, made
by him before a justice of the peace of the commonwealth of
Kentucky.
"The commonwealth of Kentucky, county of Bath, to wit
"The affidavit of John Bailey, one of the executors of captain John Bailey, deceased, states that he is not interested in
said estate, that Warren Bailey, Jun., and James C. Bailey,
who have joined with him in a power of attorney, to the honourable Richard M. Johnson, to draw any moneys that may be

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

due them, from the government of the United States, are the
residuary legatees, and solely interested , that he is
years of age, and the son of said John Bailey, deceased, who
from his earliest recollection, was ieputed a captain in the revolutionary army, and in the Illinois regiment, that he has seen
his father's commission, and thinks there were two, of that
fact he will not be certain, but it is his strongest impression,
and is perfectly confident that the commissions, if two, both
were signed by Thomas Jefferson, that his father's papers fell
into his hands, as executor, and he has made many fruitless
searches for them, and can in nowise account for their loss,
unless they were given to general Thomas Fletcher, deceased,
while a member of congress, to see if he could get any thing,
as affiant knows that his father applied to said Fletcher to do
something for him, and understood afterwards, the law had
made no provision for cases situated like said John Bailey's.
As witness my hand and seal, this
of November 1832.
"JoHw BAILEY, [SEAL]."

The record of the circuit court contained the following
statement of the facts and proceedings of the case, and of the
division of opinion by the judges of the court.
"T'he attorney for the United States read, in evidence, the
papers set out in the indictment purporting to be the affidavit
of the prisoner, with the certificates of the said Josiah Reed and
William Suddeth, and gave evidence to the jury conducing to
prove that the prisoner did, at the time and place charged in
the indictment, take theoath as charged, and subscribe the
paper set out in the indictment as his affidavit before the said
Reed, and that the said Reed was then and there a justice of
the peace of the commonwealth of Kentucky, in and for the
said county of Bath, duly commissioned, qualified, and acting
as such, and also gave evidence conducing to prove that, immediately after the passage of the said act of congress of the
45th day of July 1832, entitled ' an act for liquidating and paying certain claims of the state of Virginia.' the secretary of the
,treasury did establish, as a regulation for the government of
the department and its officers, in their action upon the claims
in the said act mentioned, that affidavits made and subscribed
before any justice of the peace, of any of the states of the United

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

States, would be received and considered, to prove the persons
making claims under said act, or the deceased whom they represented, were the persons entitled under the provisions thereof,
and that the said regulations had been ever since acted under
at the department, and numerous claims heard, allowed and
paid on such affidavits, and also gave evidence conducing to

prove that the prisoner, acting as the executor of his father,
John Bailey, had, before the tire of making and subscribing
said affidavit, asserted the claim therein mentioned, and employed Thomas Triplett to prosecute the same, and receive the
money thereon, that the said Triplett did afterwards present
the said affidavit and certificates, in support of said claim at the
said department, on which, together with other affidavits, the
same was allowed and the money paid, and a part thereof paid
to the prisoner. The above being all the'evidence conducing
to prove the authority or jurisdiction of the said Josiah Reed,
to administer said oath and take said affidavit, the counsel for
the prisoner moved the court to instruct the jury, that the said
Josiah Reed had no authority or jurisdiction to administer said
oath or take said affidavit, and that whatever other facts they
might find on the evidence, the prisoner could not have committed the crime of perjury, denounced by the thirteenth section of the act of congress, more effectually to provide for the
punishment of certain claims against the United States and
for other purposes, ' approved on the 3d of March 1825,' nor of
false swearing denounced by the third section of the act in
addition to the act' entitled ' an act for the prompt settlement
of public accounts and for the punishment of the crime of perjury,' approved on the 1st of March 1823, and their verdict
ought to be for the prisoner, which motion the attorney for the
United States opposed.
" On this question, the judges were divided and opposed in
opinion, whereupon, on the motion of the attorney of the United
States, the said question and disagreement are stated, and ordered to be certified to the supreme court."
The case was argued by the Attorney-General, and Mr
Loughborough, for the United States. No counsel appeared
for the defendant.
VOL. ix.-2 P

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Bailey.]

For the United States the following points were made.
1. That the act of the 5th of July 1832, is in pan materia
with the other acts of congress upon the subject of claims for
revolutionary services, and that evidence under it may legally
he taken, as in cases of claims under those other laws. 3 Story
1663, 1739, 1778, 1927.
2. That the secretary of the treasury pursued the intent of
the act of 1832, ii requiring the affidavit in this case, and that
the oath falls within the thirteenth section of the crimes act of
1825.
3. That the act of 1823 embraces all oaths, that, by the
usage of the government, are received as evidence in support
of claims against the United States.
4. That the justice of the peace had jurisdiction to administer this oath under the said act.
5. That the act embraces every case of swearing in which
a false oath is actually taken, and the affidavit is used fraudulently in support of a claim against the United States.
6. That this construction of the act creates no new offence,
the evidence against the pnsoner showing an offence which
would be punishable if the circuit court had a common 'law
jurisdiction of crimes. I Hawk. 430, Noy 100, Moore 627,
Hob. 62, 8 East's Rep. 364.
7. That in a prosecution upon the act of 1823, it is not
necessary to a conviction to show the requisites of technical
perjury.
Mr Loughborough, for the United States.
The indictment is founded upon the thirteenth section of
the crimes act of 1825, 3 Story 2002, and the third section of an
act of 1823. 3 Story 1917. Two counts of the indictment
charge the offence of perjury under the first named law, and
two, the offence of false swearing denounced by the act of 1823.
The oath was made before a justice of the peace of the commonwealth of Kentucky, in support of a claim by the prisoner
against the United States, as the executor of 'his father, John
Bailey, falsely alleged to have been a captain in the Illinois
regiment in the army of the revolution, for the amount of half
pay due to such captain, in virtue of the provisions of an act of
congress of July 5th 1832, entitled "an act to provide for

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

liquidating and paying certain claims of the state of Virginia."
The objections to the prosecution, in the court below, took a
wide range. It was urged on behalf of the prisoner, that the
oath upon which perjury or false swearing is assigned, must be
a legal oath, that is, an oath taken before an officer having a
jurisdiction to administer it-that congress could not confer
upon the justice jurisdiction to administer this oath-that such
jurisdiction had not in fact been confirmed by congress-that
the practice of the government, and the regulations of the
treasury, could not give the jurisdiction-that the United States
could not punish the swearing falsely, in an oath taken before
a state officer.
The point certified for the opinion of this court regards the
jurisdiction of the justice the difficulty in the mind of one of
the judges below, existing on the ground that the oath in the
case had not been authorised by act of congress, to be taken
before the justice.
As to so much of the objections to the prosecution as rests
upon assumed constitutional grounds, little need be said. It is
not supposed they would be seriously urged in this tribunal.
A glance at the statute books of the United States will show
what has been the sense of congress upon the subject.
The first act of congress, after the adoption of the present
constitution, authorised oaths to be administered by state officers.
Oaths of custom-house officers may be taken before state
justices. Story 17.
Depositions in courts of the United States may be made before state judges, 1 Story 64, and perjury in them is punishable by the United States.
By an act of March 3d 1819, oaths therein directed may
be made before state officers, and false swearing is expressly
made perjury 3 Story 1736.
False swearing before state officers, in support of claims for
pensions, under the acts of 1818 and 1820, is expressly made
punishable as perjury
Instances might be multiplied to show that congress fre.
quently avails itself of the agency of state officers in executing

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

its laws, and supposes its power competent to the punishment
of offences committed by, or before them.
To deny these powers in the federal government, would be to
create a necessity for a great multiplication of federal officers
to discharge duties now well performed by state functionaries.
That congress might avail itself of the agency of state officers,
was admitted at the period of its adoption. See Federalist 82,
and as late as the case of Houston v. Moore, 3 Wheaton 433, 4
Cond. Rep. 286. It is not a question whether congress can
compel a state officer to perform a duty, or make an obligatory
enlargement of his jurisdiction. Here the justice has exercised
the jurisdiction.
Acts upon the same subject, should receive the like construction. This is one of the soundest rules. The act of July
5, 1832, under which this oath was taken, is in pan materia
with the other acts.for the payment of claims for revolutionary services, as pensions and half-pay. These acts constitute
a system of legislation. How may other claims for pensions
and half-pay be obtained I
Previous to 1818, evidence for pensions was to be made before federal officers. See acts of 1793, 1803 and 1806, Story
304, 903, 1008.
But by the act of 1816, Story 1562, the President and secretary of war were authorized to prescribe forms of evidence in
cases under that act, for five years half-pay pensions.
By the act of 1818, Story 1663, and the following other
acts, oaths for pensions may be made before state officersact of 1819, Story 1739, act of 1820, Story 1778, act of
1823, Story 1926.
The act of May 15th 1828, directs pensions to be granted
to those who shall produce to the secretary of the treasury, "satisfactory evidence" that they are entitled. This act places upon
the pension roll, a distinct class of persons not before entitled.
The act of June 7th 1832, is supplementary to that of 1828.
It places also upon the roll, a new class of persons, who shall
produce "satisfactory evidence" that they are entitled.
Under these last two acts, a very large number of pensions
have been granted, and five-sixths of them upon oaths made
before state officers. Are these oaths illegal and unauthorized?
Have the pensions been improperly grantedl Shall they now

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

be arrested
Neither of the acts authorises state officers to
administer the oaths which were received as evidences by the
department. These acts merely required that the evidedfce
should be "satisfactory" to the secretary. By receiving under
them evidences made in the manner expressly authorised by
congress in similar cases, under laws relating to the same
general subject, did the department pass beyond the line of its
dutyl
The certificate shows, that the affidavit in this case was
made pursuant to a regulation of the secretary of the treasury,
to carry into effect the act of July 5th 1832. That act devolved upon him the performance of a certain duty. To
perform this duty, it was essential he should inform himself in
every case arising under the act, of certain facts. Who are
the identical officers entitled to half-pay-whether living or
dead, and if dead who their representatives are. these are
things of which it is manifest the secretary of the treasury
could, as such, have no intuitive knowledge. The act of congress gave him no knowledge upon these points. It is general.
To the officers or their representatives he shalt pay the money.
The act does not prescribe the mode in which he shall be informed. It was essential then that it should be prescribed by
himself. As he is to be satisfied of certain facts, it is for him
to say to claimants how they shall proceed to effect that object.
He has prescribed the mode of procedure, and in doing so, must
be supposed to have exercised a power vested in him by necessary implication. Was it illegal or improper for him to
make a regulation, when without a regulation the law must
have remained a dead letter'
Then, as to the nature of the regulation made by the secretary. It is to receive as evidence an oath before a state justice
of the peace-a mode of evidence expressly prescribed by congress in similar cases of claims against the United States, under laws in pan materia with that which he was executing.
Not only, then, has the secretary adopted no novel or improper
mode of proof, but he has only availed himself of an instrument, placed under his control in like cases , and which, when
the uniform practice of the government is considered, congress
must have supposed at his disposition in a case in which no
other direction is made by it.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.)

It has been the uniform practice, it is believed, of the government, to receive in support of claims against the United
States, evidence such as the present. In the various accounting offices of the treasury, depositions and affidavits before
state officers are, and have been taken as competent proofs in
support of claims and accounts. Congress, and its various
committees, have also been in the constant practice of receiving these affidavits as competent evidence in support of claims.
In the judiciary departmentof the government, also, it has been,
and is yet the practice to receive as affidavits papers sworn to
before state magistracy. It will be strange, if it shall now for
the first time be discovered, that these oaths are not such legal
oaths as that they who falsely take them may be punishedstrange, that congress and every other department of the government, should have remained in darkness till thepresent dayand that a practice, coeval with the government, shall have now
to be set aside as erroneous. If such be the case, then it will
result that things may be oaths for some purposes and not for
others, that a paper may be an affidavit for the purpose of
effecting a fraud, and yet not one for the purpose of judicial
examination.
The thirteenth section of the crimes act of 1825 makes it
perjury to swear falsely in any case, matter, hearing or other
proceedings, whenever an oath shall be required to be taken,
under any act of congress. Such was the oath in the present
case. This was a proceeding by claim on the part of- the
prisoner against the United States, and the oath was required
to be taken by the secretary of the treasury under the act of
July 5th 1832. It has been attempted to be shown that the
secretary of the treasury holds the power to require this oath.
If this be so, it results that the justice had jurisdiction to administer it. He had such a jurisdiction as the secretary of the
treasury deemed competent. And as he has exercised it, and
the paper has been used as an affidavit or sworn paper by the
party, the objection of the want of jurisdiction will not lie.
It is not necessary at common law, in a prosecution for perjury, to show that the oath was expressly directed by an act
of parliament. Perjury may be committed in false swearing
in a court of equity, ecclesiastical, military or maritime. 1
Hawk. P1. 430. So also false oaths taken before commission-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

ers appointed by the king to examine witnesses in relation
to any matters concerning his honour or interest, are perjuries,
1 Hawk. P1. 430, or before commissioners to inquire of the
forfeiture of his tenants' estates. Noy 100, Moore 627, Hob.
62. In Connecticut it has been settled that wherever the administration of an oath is lawful, that is, not forbidden, false
swearing is perjury at common law 2 Conn. Rep. 30. Here,
the justice is as the commissioners appointed by the crown to
examine a witness concerning its interest. At common law,
and in England, then, the offence in this case would be a perjury- and the construction of the act of 1825, which makes it
embrace this case, creates no new offence, nor an offence
which the court below would not have power to punish, if it
possessed a common lawjurisdiction of crimes.
If, however, the case does not fall within the act of 1825, it
is respectfully contended that it is embraced by the act of
1823 for the punishment of the offence of false swearing in
support of claims against the United States.
Previous to a discussion of this statute, we will examine the
doctrines of the common law as to false oaths. That law does
not content itself with the punishment of the crime of perjury
only As all false swearing is not, technical, perjury, the pommon law would be very defective if it visited with punishment
the one species only of this class of offences. Accordingly, it
will be found that the law is not thus deficient. It is held
that false swearing in fraud of another's right, orto the stoppage or hindrance of justice, is a misdemeanour, punishable by
fine, imprisonment and corporal pain.
Where an act of parliament requires an oath to be taken,
false swearing is not perjury unless the statute so declares. 4
Christian's Black. 137, note. Will it be said, however, that
such false swearing is no offence I That it is no misdemeanour,
because it is no felony q
In the case of O'Mealy v. Newell, 8 East 364, a false affidavit made in France, was produced and used in the king's
bench. Lord Ellenborough held it an offence punishable at
common law as a misdemeanour. In that case, a prosecution in England for perjury could not be sustained, because the
swearing was out of the kingdom. The court could not take
cognizance of any fraud committed out of its jurisdiction. In

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

this case, supposing the court below to have possessed a common law jurisdiction of crimes, can it be doubted that the certificate shows a misdemeanour on the part of the prisoner, a
false oath actually made within the jurisdiction of the court,
and used as a competent and true affidavit in the successful
perpetration of a fraud I The general principle of the common law, and the case in East, irresistibly lead to this conclusion.
In prosecuting Bailey, therefore, for false swearing, in support of a claim against the government, nothing was done
which the common law would not sanction. But as it is not
contended that the circuit court derives from the common law
any power to punish offences, it remains to show that the indictment and the case shown in the certificate, fall within the
statute upon which the prosecution was based. In doing this,
it will appear that the act of 1823 creates no new offence. It
only prescribes a punishment for, and gives the courts of the
union jurisdiction to try an offence before known to the common law. It simply converts a common law misdemeanour,
into the special statutory offence of "false swearing." As a
statutory offence only, it is a new one. In a prosecution founded upon the act of 1823, it is not necessary to show the requisites of technical perjury. It is necessary merely that the
case be brought within the words of the statute. This is all
that is ever required upon indictments concluding against the
form of a statute.
The words of the act are, that "if any person shall swear
falsely in support of a claim against the United States, he
shall suffer," &c. It does not say how, or before whom, the
false oath punished by it shall be taken. Why was the act
made thus general I The answer is, that the lawmakers
were aware of the practice of the government, in every department, to receive oaths before state officers in support of claims.
The inconvenience of abolishing this practice, and requiring
claimants to go in all cases before federal judges was obvious.
Congress, therefore, left the practice undisturbed, as it had
always existed, but affixed to falsehood in these oaths the
punishment of perjury Indeed, considering the uniform practice of the departments and of congress itself, to receive these
oaths as evidence, and the presumption that it must have been

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

ir the minds of the legislators, at the time of the adoption of
the act of 1823, the conclusion cannot well be resisted, that
the generality of the language of that act was of purpose to
embrace crtbs such as this.
Thus regarding the subject, it is contended, that the justice
had a jurisdiction to administer this oath under the act of
1823. But it is submitted whether upon a true construction
of that act, and the application of it to the facts of this case, a
difficulty as to the want of jurisdiction in the justice, can be
resisted by one who has actually taken a false oath, and successfully used it, in support of a fraudulent claim against the
United States. Without any particular inquiry as to jurisdiction, does not the act of 1823 extend to every case in which a
false oath is actually taken in support of a claim Q Does it
not embrace every case in which the oath is, by the admitted
practice of the departments, received as evidence in support of
claims I It is contended that it does.
Justices of the peace have, by common law, a power to administer oaths in some cases. Burn's Justice, "Oaths."
In Kentucky, justices have a criminal and a civil jurisdiction, in matters of tort and contract, and their proceedings are,
by law, records. 2 Dig. Kent. Laws 701. The justice of the
peace was, by the laws of Kentucky, as competent to take this
affidavit as the highest judge of the state, or as any other court
of record.
The Kentucky statute against perjury, 2 Dig. Kent. Laws
994, punishes false sweanng, in certain cases, before justices of
the peace.
By the nature of his office, therefore, the justice had a general
jurisdiction to administer oaths. It was in contemplation of
such a jurisdiction, that the secretary of the treasury made the
regulation found in this case, and that the prisoner took the
oath.
Suppose this oath had been made before the United States
district judge; would not the objection of the want of jurisdiction then lie as well as nowQ No law of congress has expressly
authorized him to administer the oath I And he has no more
general right to administer oaths than the Kentucky justice
of the peace.
It is unnecessary to dwell upon the consequences to flow
VOL. IX.-2 G

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

from a decision of this case against the prosecution. They are
obvious. They may be summed up as constituting much
public inconvenience and mischief, and great private wrong,
not to speak of the impunity with which frauds, ih cases of
revolutionary claims, will have been perpetrated. Truly, there
is nothing in these results to attract the court.
Mr Butler, attorney-genoral, declined going at large into an
argument of the case, after it had been so fully discussed by
Mr Loughborough, but would give the court some references
to provisions of the laws of the United States.
The third and fourth counts in the indictment are on the
act of 1823, and charge the defendant with "false swearing."
The first count charges perjury, and is not founded on that act.
If the act of 1823 created a new offence, one not before known,
that of false swearing to support claims on the United States,
the three counts in the indictment can be supported. The
case admits the false swearing, and this brings the defendant
within the provisions of that law The affidavit made by the
defendant before a magistrate was false, why is he not within
the law I The doubt is whether the magistrate had authority
to administer such an. oath. This is the point the court must
decide.
The act of 1823 does not prescribe what magistrates shall
administer the oath, or affirmation. If there is any doubt of
the false swearing being a crime under the statute, it must
rest on the assertion, that congress meant to make it an offence,
only, where the affidavit was taken before a judicial officer of
the United States, or an officer of a state specially authorized
to administer the oath.
The counsel who has argued the case, has shown acts of
congress in par materia. The act of 1823, he rightly says,
was passed by the legislature adverting to former acts, and to
the practice under them.
It has always been the practice of congress, to give power to
state magistrates to administer oaths in cases of this kind, or in
cases calling for affidavits. The first act passed by congress,
1 Siory's Laws 1, was such a case.
The inducement to authorise this practice, in addition to
the convenience it afforded, was the indisposition to create a

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

great number of officers of the United States, having authority
to administer oaths, and answerable only to the United States.
The allowance of this power to state officers, was within the
principle which operated upon those who formed the government, and who desired that it should not be exposed to consolidation. Statutes in which such powers are given to state
officers, will also be found in 1 Story 17, 69, 73, 180, 214, 224,
225, 226, 301, and in many other places n the statute books.
To show that congress have recognized the power of the secretary of the treasury to make regulations in relation to claims
on the United States, cited, 1 Story's Laws U. S., sect. 7.
Many of the operations of the treasury are conducted under
regulations established by the secretary of the treasury
In legislating on the claims which the law declared should
be paid by the secretary of the treasury, congress adverted to
the established custom of the department by which the secretary was to satisfy himself, that claimants were entitled to the
benefit of this law
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a criminal case, certified from the circuit court of
the district of Kentucky upon a division of opinion of the judges

of that court.
The defendant, John Bailey, was indicted for false swearing
under the third section of the act of congress of the 1st day of
March 1823, ch. 165, which provides "that if any person shall
swear or affirm falsely touching the expenditure of public money, or in support of any claim against the .United States, he
or she shall, upon conviction thereof, suffer as for wilful and
corrupt perjury." The indictment charges the false swearing
to be in an affidavit made by the defendant, before a justice of
the peace of the commonwealth of Kentucky, in support of a
claim against the United States, under the act of congress of
the 5th day of July 1832, ch. 173, to provide for liquidating
and paying certain claims of the state of Virginia and there
are various counts in the indictment, stating the charge in different manners. It appears from the record, that at the trial
"the attorney for the United States read in evidence the papers
set out in the indictment, purporting to be the affidavit of the
prisoner, with the certificates of the said Josiah Reed and Wil-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

liam Suddeth, and gave evidence to the jury, conducing to prove
that the prisoner did, at the time and place charged in the indictment, take oath as charged, and subscribe the paper set out
in the indictment as his affidavit, before the said Reed, and
that the said Reed was then and there a justice of the peace of
the commonwealth of Kentucky, in and for the said county of
Bath, duly commissioned, qualified and acting as such, and
also gave evidence conducing to prove, that immediately after
the passage of the said act of congress of the 5th day of July
1832, entitled "an act for liquidating and paying certain claims
of the state of Virginia," the secretary of the treasury did establish, as a regulation for the government of the department
and its officers, in their action upon the claims in said act
mentioned, that affidavits made and subscribed before any justice of the peace, of any of the states of the United States, would
be received and considered, to prove the persons making claims
under said act, or the deceased whom they represented, were
the persons entitled under the provisions thereof, and that the
said regulations had been ever since acted under at the department, and numerous claims heard, allowed and paid on such
affidavits, and also gave evidence conducing to prove that the
prisoner, acting as the executor of his father, John Bailey, had,
before the time of making and subscribing said affidavit, asserted the claim therein mentioned, and employed Thomas
Triplett to prosecute the same, and receive the money thereon,
that the said Triplett did afterwards present the said affidavit
and certificates, in support of said claim at the said department,
on which, together with other affidavits, the same was allowed
and the money paid, and a part thereof paid to the prisoner.
The above being all the evidence conducing to prove the authority or jurisdiction of said Josiah Reed, to administer said
oath and take said affidavit, the counsel for the prisoner moved
the court to instruct the jury, that the said Josiah Reed had no
authority or jurisdiction to administer said oath or take said
affidavit, and that whatever other facts they might find on the
evidence, the prisoner could not have committed the crime of
perjury, denounced by the thirteenth section of the act of con-,
gress, more effectually to provide for the punishment of certain
claims against the United States and for other purposes, " approved on the 3d of March 1825," nor of false swearing de-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

nounced by the third section of the act "in addition to the act"
entitled "an act for the prompt settlement of public accounts,
and for the punishment of the crime of perjury," approved on
the 1st of March 1823, and their verdict ought to be for the
prisoner,, which motion the attorney for the United States opposed.
On this question, the judges were divided and opposed in
opinion, whereupon, on the motion of the attorney of the United
States, the said question and disagreement were stated, and
ordered to be certified to the supreme court.
It is admitted that there is no statute of the United States
which expressly authorizes any justice of the peace of a state,
or indeed any officer of the national government, judicial or
otherwise, to administer an oath in support of any claim against
the United States under the act of 1832, ch. 173. And the
question is, whether, under these circumstances, the oath actually administered in this case was an oath upon which there
would be a false swearing, within the true intent and meaning
of the act of 1823, ch. 165.
It is unnecessary to consider in this case, whether an oath
taken before a mere private or official person, not authorized to
administer an oath generally, or in special cases, or not specially authorized, recognised or allowed by the regulations or
practice of the treasury department, as competent to administer
an oath, in support of any claim against the United States,
would, though the claim should be admitted or acted upon in
the treasury department, under such a supposed sanction, be
within the provision of the act of 1823, ch. 165. These questions may well be reserved for consideration until they shall
arise directly in judgment. In the present case, the oath was
administered by a state magistrate, having an admitted authority under the state laws to administer oaths, virtute officii, in
many cases, if not in the present case, and it is further found
in the case, that there was evidence at the trial conducing to
prove, (and for the purposes of the present argument it must be
taken as proved) that the secretary of the treasury did establish
a regulation, authorizing affidavits made before any justice of
the peace, of a state, to be received and considered in proof of
claims under the act of 1832, so that the solutiorl of the question, now before us, depends upon this, whether the oath, so

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

administered under the sanction of the treasury department, is
within the true intent and meaning of the act of 1823.
Admitting, for the sake of argument, that it is true (on
which, however, we express no opinion) that a state magistrate is not compellable to administer an oath, virtute officii,
under a law of the United States which expressly confers power
on him for that purpose, still, if he should choose to administer
an oath under such a law, there can be no doubt, that it would
be a lawful oath, by one having competent authority, and as
much so, as if he had been specially appointed a commissioner
under a law of the United S.tates, for that purpose. And we
think, that such an oath administered under such circumstances, would clearly be within the provision of the act of
1823. That act does not create or punish the crime of perjury,
technically considered. But it creates a new and substantive
offence of false swearing, and punishes it in the same manner
as perjury. The oath, therefore, need not be administered in
a judicial proceeding, or in a case of which the state magistrate,
under the state laws, had judicial jurisdiction, so as to make
the false swearing perjury. It would be sufficient that it might
be lawfully administered by the magistrate, and was not in
violation of his official duty
There being no express authority given by any law of the
United States, to any state magistrate, to administer an oath
in the present case, the next inquiry naturally presented is,
whether the secretary of the treasury had an implied power to
require, authorize, allow or admit any affidavits sworn before
state magistrates, in proof or in support of any claim under the
act of 1832, for if he had, it would be very difficult to show
that such an affidavit is not within the true intent and meaning
of the act of 1823, as it certainly is within the very words of
the enactment. The policy of the act clearly extends to such
a case, and the public mischief to be remedied is precisely the
same, as if the affidavit had been taken under the express and
direct authority of a statute of the United States.
And we are of opinion, that the secretary of the treasury did,
by implication, possess the power to make such a regulation,
and to allow such affidavits in proof of claims, under the act of
1832 It was incident to his duty and authority, in settling
claims, under that act. The third section provides "that the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

secretary of the treasury be, and he is hereby directed and required to adjust and settle those claims for half pay of the officers of the aforesaid regiment and corps, which have not been
paid, &c., which several sums of money herein directed to be
settled or paid, shall be paid out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated by law." It is a general principle
of law, in the construction of all powers of this sort, that where
the end is required, the appropriate means are given. It is the
duty of the secretary to adjust and settle these claims, and in
order to do so he must have authority to require suitable
vouchers and evidence of the facts, which are to establish the
claim. No one can well doubt the propriety of requiring the
facts which are to support a claim, and rest on testimony, to be
established under the sanction of an oath, and especially in
cases of the nature of those which are referred to in the act,
where the facts are so remote in point of time, and must be so
various in point of force and bearing. It cannot be presumed
that congress were insensible of these considerations, or intended to deprive the secretary of the treasury of the fullest use
of the best means to accomplish the end, viz. to suppress frauds,
and to ascertain, and allow just claims. It is certain, that the
laws of the United States have, in various cases of a similar
nature, from the earliest existence of the government down to
the present time, required the proof of claims against the government to be by affidavit. In some of these laws authority has
been given to judicial officers of the United States to administer the oaths for this purpose, and at least as early as 1818, a
similar authority was confided to state magistrates. The citations from the laws, made at the argument, are direct to this
point, and establish in the clearest manner a habit of legislation to this effect.(a) It may be added, that it has been stated
by the attorney-general, and is of public notoriety, that there
has been a constant practice and usage in the treasury department in claims against the United States, and especially of a
nature like the present, to require evidence by affidavits in
support of the claim, whether the same has been expressly
(a) Act of 28th of February 1793, ch. 61,'[17]. Act of 3d March 1803, ch.
90. Act of 10th of April 1806, ch. 25. Act of 18th of March 1818, ch. 18.
Act of Ist of May 1820, ch. 51. Act of 3d of March 1823, ch. 187.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

required by statute or not, and that, occasionally, general regulations have been adopted in the treasury department for this
purpose.
Congress must be presumed to have legislated under this
known state of the laws and usage of the treasury department.
The very circumstance that the treasury department had, for
a long period, required solemn verifications of claims against
the United States, under oath, as an appropriate means to
secure the government against frauds, without objection, is
decisive to show that it was not deemed an usurpation of
authority.
The language of the act of 1823 should, then, be construed
with reference to this usage. The false swearing and false
affirmation, referred to in the act, ought to be construed to
include all cases of swearing and affirmation required by the
practice of the department in regard to the expenditure of
public money, or in support of any claims against the United
States. The language of the act is sufficiently broad to include
all such cases, and we can perceive no reason for excepting
them from the words, as they are within the policy of the act,
and the mischief to be remedied. The act does no more than
change a common law offence into a statute offence.
There is nothing new in this doctrine. It is clear, by the
common law, that the taking of a false oath, with a view to
cheat the government, or to defeat the administration of public
justice, though not taken within the realm, or wholly dependent upon usage and practice, is punishable as a misdemeanour.
The case of O'Mealy v. Newell, 8 East's Rep. 364, affords an
illustration of this doctrine. In that case it was held, that a
person making, or knowingly using a false affidavit of debt,
sworn before a foreign magistrate, in a foreign country, for the
purpose of holding a party to bail in England, although such
affidavit was 6ot authorized by any statute, but was solely
dependent upon the practice and usage of the courts of England, was punishable as a misdemeanour at the common law,
as an attempt to pervert public justice. Upon this occasion
Lord Ellenborough, after alluding to the practice of receiving
such affidavits made in Ireland and Scotland, as well as in
foreign countries, said, the practice in both cases must be
equally warranted or unwarranted. In none of these cases

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

can the party making a false affidavit be indicted specifically
for the crime of perjury, in the courts of this country But in
all of them, as far as he is punishable at all, he is punishable
for a mtsdemeanour, In procuring the court to make an order to
hold to bail, by means and upon the credit of a false and
fraudulent voucher of a fact produced and published by him
for that purpose. And the court held the practice perfectly
justifiable.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that where the oath is
taken before a state or national magistrate, authorized to administer oaths, in pursuance of any regulations prescribed by
the treasury department, or in conformity with the practice
and usage of the treasury department, so that the affidavit
would be admissible evidence at the department in support of
any claim against the United Statesq and the party swears
falsely, the case is within the purview of the act of 1823, ch.
165. It will be accordingly certified to the circuit court, that
the said Josiah Reed, named in the certificate of division of
the judges of the circuit court, being a justice of the peace of
the commonwealth of Kentucky, authorized by the laws of
that state to administer oaths, had authority and jurisdiction
to administer the oath, and take the affidavit in the said certificate of division mentioped, and tha(if the facts stated
therein were falsely sworn to, the case is within the act of
congress of the 1st day of March 1823, referred to in the same
certificate.
Mr Justice M'LEAN dissenting.
The question involved in this case is important, as it regards
the construction of a highly penal law of the union, and of
still greater importance, as it respects the powers of state officers
under an act of congress which confers on them no special authority.
In the third section of the act of congress of the 1st of March
1823, it is provided, that "if any person shall swear or affirm
falsely, touching the expenditure of public money, or in support
of any claim of the United States, he orshe shall, upon conviction
thereof, suffer as for wilful and corrupt perjury" And in the
thirteenth section of the act of the 3d of March 1825, it is
declared, that "if any person, in any case, matter, hearing or
VOL. ix.M-2 H

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Bailey.]

other proceeding, when an oath or affirmation shall be required
to be taken or administered under or by any law or laws of the
United States, shall, upon taking such oath or affirmation,
knowingly and willingly swear or affirm falsely, every person
so offending shall be deemed guilty of perjury, &c."
These are the acts under which the offence of false swearing
is charged against the defendant. The oath was administered
by Josiah Reed, a justice of the peace for Bath county, in the
state of Kentucky, with the view of obtaining money from the
government. It does not appear that in this law or any other
the claim asserted was required to be substantiated by oath,
but it was proved that such requirement was made by the secretary of the treasury, whose duty it was to decide on the merits
of the claim. Nor does it appear that any authority has been
given by any act of congress to a justice of the peace to administer an oath in such a case, and the question arises, whether, admitting the affidavit of Bailey to be false, justice Reed
b' If it shall be found
had power to administer such an oath
that no such power existed, the false swearing, though highly
immoral, is not an offence under either of the acts of congeess
which have been cited.
The statutes of 1823 and 1825 above cited, have extended
the crime of perjury, or the punishment annexed to it, to a
false swearing, which neither by the common law nor the previous acts of congress, constituted perjury Beyond this these
acts do not go. They do not dispense with any of the essential requisites, beyond what is expressed, to constitute the crime
of perjury.
The definition of perjury at common law, as given by Hawkins, is, "a wilful, false oath, &c. in any procedure in a course
of justice." This offence may be commited in depositions, affidavits, &c. taken out of a court of justice.
By the act of congress of 1790, it is provided, that "if
any person shall wilfully and corruptly commit perjury on his
or her oath or affirmation, in any suit, contrqversy, matter or
cause depending in any of the courts of the United States, or
in any deposition taken pursuant to the laws of the United
States, every person so offending shall suffer, &c. In 4 Black.
Com. 136, it is stated, "the law takes no notice of any perjury
but such as is committed in some court of justice having power

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

to administer an oath, or before some magistrate or proper
officer invested with a similar authority" And lord Coke, in
3 Inst. 165, says, "that no.old oath can be altered or new oath
raised, without an act of parliament, or any oath administered
by any that hath not allowance by the common law, or by act
of parliament."
No one can doubt, that an oath administered by a person
without authority is a void act. It imposes no legal obligation
on the person swearing to state the truth, nor is he punishable
under any law for swearing falsely in such a case.
The prosecution in this case is attempted to be sustained on
two grounds.
1. From the general language of the law defining the offence of false swearing.
2. From the usage of the treasury department.
And first, as to the language of the act under which this
prosecution was commenced. The act is general in its language against "any person who shall swear falsely ;" but it
gives no authority, either general or special, to administer an
oath. This power must be sought in other acts of congress,
or in a judicial office to which the power is incident.
The federal government is "one of limited and specific powers. In the discharge of its functions, except in certain specified cases, its acts are as distinct from those of a state government, as if they were foreign to each other. The officers of
the one government, as such, can do no official acts under the
other the sources of their authority are different, as well as
their duties and responsibilities.
When a law for the punishment of offences is passed by
either the federal or a state government, it can only operate
within the proper jurisdiction. The officers of the federal government can take no cognizance of the penal laws of a state,
nor can the judiciary of a state, in my opinion, carry into effect
the criminal laws of the union. If this could be done, it would
consolidate the jurisdictions of the respective governments, and
introduce into our judicial proceedings the utmost confusion.
It is not in the power of congress to trapsfer any part of the
jurisdiction which the constitution has vested in the federal
government. If this can be done by congress, to any extent, it
may be done without limitation, and in this way the powers

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

of the federal government might be lessened or utterly destroyed.
A federal judicial officer, either by act of congress or as an
incident to his office, has the power to administer oaths. This
power, however, can only be exercised within the jurisdiction
of the federal government, and in cases where an oath is
required or sanctioned by the laws of that government. And
so of the judicial officers of a state. If either officer act beyond the sphere of his appropriate jurisdiction, his act is a
nullity
In this view of the case, there is no difference in principle
between administering an oath, and any other act which belongs to the judicial character of the officer.
By an act of congress, depositions may be taken befoie certain state officers, in any cause pending in the courts of the
United States. Among these officers a justice of the peace is
not named, unless he be a judge of a county court and it has
been often decided, that a deposition taken before a justice of
the peace, who is not a member of a county court, or before
any other state officer than those named in the act, cannot be
read in evidence.
Under the state jurisdiction, the justice may have power to
administer oaths, but he is not recognized as having a right to
exercise this power under the act of congress. And would any
one contend that a deposition taken before a justice, under
such circumstances, could lay the foundation of a prosecution
for perjury Q

The state officers named in the act, as having the power to
take depositions, do not act, in taking them, under their
general power to administer oaths as state officers, but under
the special authority of the act of congress. Any other persons designated by their official characters, might as well have
been named in the act of congress, though they had no power
under any law of the state, to administer oaths. The officers
named in the act, are referred to as descriptive of persons who
may exercise the authority given, and for no other purpose.
In the argument of this case, for the prosecution, a great
number of acts of congress were read, granting pensions and
for other purposes, in which state officers were specially authorized to administer oaths. This I take to be a conclusive ex-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

position by congress, against the powers of state officers to
administer oaths for federal purposes. Would a special authority have been vested in them for this purpose, if, in the
opinion of congress, they possessed a general authority under
the state laws I But one answer can be made to this inquiry
Congress knew well that state officers could exercise under
their general authority, no such power, and it was expressly
conferred on them by an act of federal legislation.
If this power to administer an oath by a judicial officer of a
state, in matters of a civil nature which relate to the federal
jurisdiction, cannot be recognized as legal, much less should it
be sanctioned, as laying the foundation of a prosecution for
perjury The false swearing with which the defendant stands
charged, though not technically perjury, is punished as such.
Under a general law of a state which defines the offence
and provides for the punishment of perjury, would a false oath
taken before a federal judicial officer be punishable I Would
it not be essential, in such a case, to show that the person administering the oath, acted under the authority of the state ?
Could the state tribunals recognize any other authority than
that which belongs to their own jurisdiction q If no state law
authorises an oath to be administered by a federal officer, can
he administer it, for state purposes q Could the acknowledgement of a deed or other instrument be made before a federal
judge, under a general statute of a state requiring such instrument to be acknowledged before a judge of the court q All
these questions must be answered in the negative.
To say that the federal officer has a right to administer oaths
by an act of congress, or as an incident of his office, does not
remove the objection. Can a judge of the federal court exercise his functions in a state tribunal I Such a pretension
would be too absurd to merit serious consideration. And, yet,
is there any difference in principle between a federal judicial
officer discharging his function in a state tribunal, and administering an oath for state purposes. Does he not, in both cases,
exercise the functions of his office under the jurisdiction of the
state.
It is admitted that the legislature of a state, as well as congress, may authorise any persons, by name, or by their official
designations, to administer oaths in all cases required, under

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

the laws of their respective governments but I am examining the case of the defendant where no statutory power
to administer the oath, is pretended to have been given by
congress.
Any official act of a federal officer, under the jurisdiction of
a state, which has not authorised such act by him, is extra
judicial, and in no point of view legal. Nor can an oath administered under such circumstances, however false, be punishable under a general statute of the state against false
swearing. The act of administering the oath, being done
without authority, is void. It subjects the false swearer to no
greater penalty than if it had been administered by a private
citizen, without any pretence of power.
The law, it may be said, denounces the punishment for false
swearing generally And can there be a false swearing,
within the meaning of the act, before a person who has no
authority to administer an oath Q1
From these considerations it would seem that no punishment
could be inflicted by a state tribunal, under an act against false
swearing, where the oath had been administered by a federal
officer, whose act was not sanctioned by any law of the state.
And if this be the case under the jurisdiction of a state, is it
not equally clear that the same principle applies to the federal
jurisdictionl' If a state tribunal cannot punish for false swearing, where the oath is administered by a federal officer without
any sanction by the laws of the state, can a federal tribunal
punish for false swearing, where the oath is administered by a
state officer without any sanction by the laws of the union.
The act of congress against false swearing is'general, and
no reference is made to the authority under which the oath
shall be administered but does it not follow as a consequence,
that the oath must be administered under the same jurisdiction which enacted the lawQ Did congress intend to punish
an offence committed before a state tribunalQ They had the
power to punish false swearing, before any individual whom
they might have authorised to administer the oath, but in this
law they have not so provided, nor in any other law which
relates to the case under consideration. It therefore follows, in
this view, that justice Reed, in administering the oath to the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

defendant, acted without authority, and the affiant cannot be
subjected to the penalty for false swearing.
If this offence may be perpetrated before a state officer, because the law denouncing it is general, on the same ground,
may not a state tribunal inflict the penalties of this lawI
But it is insisted that under the rule of the treasury department which required the oath to substantiate the claim, the
justice was authorised to administer the oath.
Can this position be sustained2
It has been shown that justice Reed, in administering the
oath, did not act under the authority of the state, or of any
law of congress, and the question is fairly presented, whether
the secretary of the treasury has the power to invest any individual with a competent authority to administer oaths, in
matters which relate to the treasury department.
That the secretary of the treasury, who, in the discharge of
his duties, is required to investigate and decide annually, numerous and various claims on the treasury, may require certain
claims to be substantiated by oath, is not controverted.
But this admission goes no length in sustaining the prosecution. for it does not follow, if the secretary require an oath
in proof of a claim, that he can invest any individual with the
power to administer such oath.
In the first place, there is no necessity for the exercise of the
power, by the secretary; because there are officers of the United
States who are duly authorised to administer oaths. But
there is no power in any executive officer to clothe any individual with the important authority of administering oaths. It
is a power which belongs to the legislative department, and
can no where else be exercised.
In certain cases courts may issue commissions to take depositions, and these give authority to administer oaths in the
cases stated; but this is done under the express sanction of law.
Can the secretary himself administer an oath which shall lay
the foundation of a prosecution for perjury2 But it is said that
it has been the usage of the department to act on oaths administered by state officers. That such has been the usage I
can entertain no doubt, but there is no proof before this court,
nor was there anybefore the circuit court, that such usage exists

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Bailey.]

in cases where congress have givei no authority to administer
the oath.
But suppose the usage did extend to cases where no authority had been given by congress to a state officer to administer
an oath, could usage constitute the law in such a case. The
usage of the department may not only fix the rule of decision,

but, in many cases, the ground and extent of a claim against
the government. But this usage cannot extend beyond the
action of the department.
The secretary of the treasury requires oaths to be admintstered by state officers, in proof of certain claims, to guard the
public interest, but does that legalize such a procedure ' It
may prove salutary for the purpose intended, but does it follow
that the oaths administered by any one, if false, armwithin the
act of congress against false swearing q This act is a highly
penal one. A conviction under it destroys the character of
the individual, and deprives him of his liberty. Like all other
criminal acts, it should receive a. strict construction, and no
person should be subjected to its penalties who has not clearly
violated its letter and spirit.
In one sense it may be said, that the defendant, Bailey, is
within the law, because the law punishes false swearing, and
he has sworn falsely before a justice of the peace. But the
question recurs, had this justice the power to administer the
oath ' If he had not, Bailey has not incurred the penalties of
the law
A decision from 8 East 364, has been read, as applicable
to the case now under consideration. That was a case in
which the court of kin gs bench decided that an affidavit taken
in a foreign country, was sufficient, under the practice of the
court, to hold a defendant to bail. But lord Ellenborough
says, that "in none of these cases can the party making a false
affidavit be indicted, specifically, for the crime of peilury in
the courts of this country, but in all of them, as far as the
party is punishable at all, he is punishable for a misdemeanour, in procuring the court to make an order to hold to bail, by
means, and upon the credit of a false and fraudulent voucher
of a fact, produced and published by him for that purpose."
It appears, from this opinion, that the false swearing in a
foreign affidavit could not lay the foundation of a criminal

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[United States v. Bailey.]

prosecution, but the use which was made of such affidavit, and
the effect produced by it-these constitute the gist of the
prosecution.
A false affidavit, to hold to bail, if made in England, and
before a person competent to administer an oath, would, be perjury. But lord Ellenborough says, in substance, if the oath
be administered in a foreign country, or in Ireland or Scotland,
though false, does not subject the afflant~to a prosecution for
perjury, nor for any criminal prosecution founded exclusively
upon the false swearing.
If, by the practice of the court, a mere statement by the
plaintiff were sufficient to hold to bail, and such statement
were made falsely, it would subject the plaintiff to punishment
by the common law, for, in the language of the judge, "procuring the court to make an order to hold to bail, by meanw and upon
the credit of a false andfraudulent voucher of afact produced and
published by him for thatpurpose."
This opinion, it appears to me, does not conflict with the
view I have taken of this case.
But it is insisted, that the law against false swearing was
passed with a knowledge by congress of the usage of the department to require oaths before state officers, and that it must be
presumed, they intended to sanction such usage. Is such a
presumption admissible in a criminal case 7 The effect of the
law must be limited, in its penalties, to the jurisdiction under
which it was enacted, and it should not be construed to embrace
cases which do not come legitimately within its purview
A court, in giving a construction to a highly penal law, will
look at its letter and spirit, and cannot extend its provisions by
construction, from motives of policy which may be supposed to
have influenced the legislature.
If state and federal officers, as such, may exercise their functions within the junsdiction of either government, to any extent,
I see no principle by which their powers shall be limited. Such
a course would blend the jurisdictions of the federal and state
governments, and be likely to lead to the most serious collisions.
I consider this question as one of great importance, and differing, as I do, from the opinion of the court, I have felt bound
to give the reasons for my opinion.
VOL. IX.-2 I

266

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Bailey.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Kentucky, and on the point on which the judges of the said
circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which was certified
to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of congress in
such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel
on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this
court, that it be certified to the said circuit court, as the opinion
of this court, that the said Josiah Reed, named in the certificate of division, being a justice of the peace of the commonwealth of Kentucky, authorized by the laws of that state to
administer oaths, had authority and jurisdiction to administer
the oath and.take the affidavit in the said certificate of division
mentioned, and that if the facts stated therein were falsely
sworn to, the case is within the act of congress of the 1st day
of March 1823, referred to in the same certificate.

