SUPREME COURT.

BENJAIIN

J.

TARViR, APPELLANT V

SAMUEL

B.

TARVER,

CHARLOTTE TARvER AND PATIENCE GIBSON.
Alabama. A bill was filed by the heirs at law of R. T., stating, that R. T.,
being then a citizen of Georgia, in the year 1819, made a conditional?will,
in which he recites, " being about to take a long journey, and knowing the
uncertainty of life, he deemed it advisable to make a will." The will was
set out in the bill, and was executed before three witnesses; and devises all
his real and personal estate to his brother, B. T., after making a small provision for his sister and her son. R. T. performed the journey, and returned
safe. After the decease, in Alabama, of R. T., his brother, B. T. carried
the supposed will to the county court in Dallas county, Alabama, to which
the intestate and his brother had removed, and where they had purchased
and held jointly considerable real and personal estate, and upon proof of
the handwriting of two of the subscribing witnesses who were dead, the
other witness living in the state of Georgia, the will was admitted to probate.
The bill alleges the probate to be void, prays that the will may be cancelled,
and the estate distributed according to the laws of Alabama.
Held. that this was not a conditional will. The instrument taking effect as
a will, is not made to depend upon the event of the return or not of the testator from his journey. There is therefore no colour for annulling the will
that it was conditional.
In the case of Armstrong v. Lear, 12 Wheat. 175, 6 Cond. Rep. 500, it was
said by this court, that no other evidence of there being a will can be received
by the court, than such as would be sufficient in all other cases where titles
are derived under a wiU, and nothing but the probate, or letters of administration with the will annexed, are legal evidence in all questions respecting personalty. But the rule there laid down does not apply to this case.
Here the complainant set up the will as a source of his title, and was
bound to prove it, which must be done by the probate, which must be set
forth in the bill. In this case the complainant had set forth a copy of the
instrument in his bill, alleging it was conditional, and therefore not valid.
The defendant was under no obligation to produce any probate. Every
thing, by the complainant's own showing, was before the court.
An original bill will not be sustained on the allegation that the probate of the
will is void. If any error was committed by the court of Dallas county in
admitting the will to probate, it should have been corrected by an appeal to
the next term of the supreme court in chancery, or in the district of Washington, to the superior court of that district, according to the law of Alabama.

APPEAL from the district court of the United States for the
southern district of Alabama.
The appellees, citizens of the state of Georgia, filed their bill
in the district court of the United States for the southern dis-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Tarver v. Tarver and others.]

trct of Alabama against the appellant, Mason Gilliam, and
John Gilliam, her son, stating that they and the defendants
were the heirs at law of Richard Tarver, who died in the year
1827, that the deceased in 1819 made a will, which they assert
to be a conditional will, and which they exhibit, which they
also state was not considered as a will by Richard Tarver at the
time of his death. That the principal devisee in that will, Benjamin Tarver, one of the defendants, has proved the will in
Dallas county, by provingthehandwriting of two of the subscribing witnesses, who were dead, the other being out of the state,
and that the probate thereof is void, that the said Benjamin
has taken possession of all the deceased's lands and effects,
and they pray an account of the real and personal estate of the
testator, and the time at which it was acquired, and "that
the will may be cancelled, and the property of the deceased be
distributed according to the laws of Alabama."
The copy of the will and of the probate annexed'to the will,
were as follows.
Being about to travel
"Will. In the name of God, amen
a considerable distance, and knowing the uncertainty of life,
think it advisable tomake some disposition of myestate, do make
this my last will and testament. It is my will that my brother
Benjamin J. Tarver, should have all my estate both real and
personal, except a competent maintenance for my sister Gilliam
and her son John Gilliam, and further, he should give the said
John Gilliam a liberal education, and then carry him through
the study of law or physic, as he may think best, and at the
age of twenty-one, give him, the said John Gilliam, twentyfive hundred dollars in money or property.
"Given under my hand this 3d May 1819.

"RiCHARn TAR,

[L. s.].

"Test W Lyman, William Booker, William H. Carter.
"Witnesses D. C. Patterson, William F Hay.
"Probate of will. Orphan's Court, November term 1827.
State of Alabama, Dallas county. Personally appeared before me, James Suffold, judge of the county and o'phan's
court, in the county aforesaid, Joseph Scott, who being duly
sworn, saith that he knows the hand writing of William Booker

SUPREME COURT.
fTarver v. Tarver and others.]

and David C. Patterson, who signed their names as witnesses
to the within will, that he has seen them write, that he believes the signatures appearing thereto was their, and each-of
their proper acts and signatures, that to his certain knowledge
both Booker and David C. Patterson are now dead.
" JOSEPH SCOTT.

"Sworn to, and subscribed before me, this 12th day of- November 1827.
"JAMES SUFFOLD.

"13th November, H.

VANDYKE,

Clerk, recorded."

The answers of the defendant in the district court, declare
that Richard Tarver made his last will and testament, as stated
in the complainant's bill, but deny that there was a condition annexed thereto. The defendant states that the testator
and himself lived together and employed their capital together,
and for their joint benefit, with an express agreement, that the
survivor should have the whole, which was the joint property
of both. At the time the testator executed the vill referred to
in the bill of the complainant, he executed a will substantially
similar in all respects to that executed by Richard Tarver.
The answers assert that the probate of the will is in full form
and was regular, and that there is no sufficient cause shown
in the bill for the exercise of equitable powers by the court.
The district court gave a decree in favour of the complainants, on the ground that the will of -Richard Tarver had not
been admitted to probate by the proper orphan's court, and of
course that it did not appear to the court that he made a will.
And also that this proceeding 'was instituted to set aside the
will of Richard Tarver, and no title which the respondent
might have to the property of Richard Tarver, can be set up in
the case, except such as may be derived from the will. The
defendants appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Key, for the appellants, and by
Mr Gamble and Mr Wilde, for the appellees.
Mr Justice TomPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on appeal from the district court of the
United States for the southern district of Alabama.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Tarver v. Tarver and others.]

The pleadings are very inartificially drawn, and do not, probably, present the case in such a manner as to enable the court
tQ dispose of all the questions intended to be brought under
consideration.
The bill sets out that Richard Tarver, late of the county of
Dallas, and state of Alabama, departed this life, in that county,
in the year 1827, leaving at the time of his.death a large real
and personal estate, and leaving three sisters and the defendant,
Benjamin Tarver, his sole heirs at law That the said Richard
Tarver, in the year 1819, being a citizen of Georgia, and possessed of a large estate in lands, made a conditional will, in
which he recites that being about to take a long journey, and
knowing the uncertainty of life, he deemed it advisable to
make a will, and thereby declared that he left all his estate,
real and personal, to his brother Benjamin Tarver. And making
some small provision for his sister Mason Gilliam, and her son
John, all which will more fully appear by a copy of the supposed will attached to the bill, and which is prayed to be considered as a part thereof. The bill alleges that the said Richard
Tarver performed the journey, and returned safe. Some statements are then made with respect to the property of the deceased, and the bill alleges that he and the defendant, Benjamin
J. Tarver, lived together, and employed their capital, of every
description, jointly. That Benjamin, on the decease of his brother, took possession of all his estate. That the said supposed
will purports to be attested by sundry persons as witnesses, the
survivor of whom resides in the state of Georgia. That the said
Benjamin carried the supposed will before the county court of
Dallas county; and upon the proof of the handwriting of two of
the subscribing witnesses, who are dead, the other still living in
the state of Georgia, thewill was admitted to probate, and the bill
alleges that such probate is void. The bill then prays, that
the will may be cancelled, and the estate distributed according
to the laws of Alabama, and that the defendant may set forth
the full amount of the property of the said Richard, not only
what he had at the time of his death, but what he had at the
date of the supposed will, describing the property at each of
these times particularly. An amended bill was afterwards
filed, stating that the defendant was attempting to set up said
will, and charging that it was conditional in its inception,
VOL. IX.-X

SUPREME COURT.
[Tarver v. Tarver and others.]

and that the condition on which it was to take effect has not
happened.
Several answers were filed m consequence of exceptions
taken and allowed by the court. These answers contain
much matter not responsive to the bill, and which was not
properly before the court. But it is denied that there was any
condition annexed to the will, other than is shown by the will
itself. The defendant admits that he procured the will to be
proved and admitted to record in the orphan's court of Dallas
county. And alleges that the probate of said will remains in
full force, not revoked, or in any manner set aside, and which
he is informed, and believes is in all respects legal. And prays
the benefit of the answers as a demurrer to the bill. The court
decreed a distribution of the estate among the legal representatives of the deceased, and the cause comes here for review.
The questions put in issue by the pleadings, are
1. Whether Richard Tarver, at his decease, left the will in
question as a valid and operative will.
2. Whether such will was duly admitted to record in Dallas
county.
It is a little remarkable, that the final decree in the cause,
does not touch either of these questions put in issue by the
pleadings, but proceeds at once, on the report of the master,
to make distribution of the estate among the heirs at law of
the deceased. The judge in his opinion, does notice these
questions, but does not decide whether the will was conditional, and had become inoperative, by reason that the contingency on which it was to take effect had not happened, but
puts his decision upon the ground that the defendant was
bound to establish the will, and that this could be done in no
other way than by the production of a valid probate. He observes that this proceeding is instituted to set aside the will of
Richard Tarver, and no title which the respondent may have
to the property of his deceased brother, can be set up in this
suit, except such as may be derived from the will. That if
the complainants had even admitted the existence of the will
of Richard Tarver, yet it would be indispensable to the title set
up by the respondents, through that will, to show that it had
been duly admitted to probate, by the proper orphan's court.
The judge then goes into an examination, whether the will

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Tarver v. Tarver and others.]

had been duly admitted to probate, and coming to the conclusion that it had not, he declares that it does not therefore appear to this court that Richard Tarver made any will. He
seems to rest his opinion upon the decision of this court, in the
case of Armstrong v. Lear, 12 Wheat. 175, where it is
said that we cannot receive any other evidence of there being
a will, than such as would be sufficient in all other cases,
where titles are derived under a will, and uothiMg but the
probate, or letters of administration, with the will annexed, are
legal evidence of the will in all questions respecting personalty. But the rule as there laid down, does not apply to this
case. There the complainant set up the will as the source of
his title, and -was bound to prove it, which must be done, say
the court, by the probate, which must be set forth in the bill.
But in the present case the inquiry was, whether the instrument in question was a valid will or not, and the complainant
had set out a copy of that instrument for the purpose of showing that it was not a valid subsisting will, because it appeared
upon the face of it to be conditional, and then to show that
such condition or contingency had never happened. The
defendant was not the actor, seeking to enforce any right
under the will. And he could be under no obligation to
produce any probate. The complainant having set out the
will, every thing by his own showing was before the court
that was necessary to present the question which was to be
decided. There was no evidence impeaching this will, except what appears on the face of it, and is rested entirely
on the introductory part of it. It begins in this manner. "Bemg about to travel a considerable distance, and knowing the
uncertainty of life, think it advisable to make some disposition
of my estate, do make this my last will and testament, &c."
And it is contended that the condition upon which the instrument was to take effect as a will, was his dying on the
journey, and not returning home again. But such is a very
strained construction of the instrument, and by no means warranted. It is no condition, but only assigning the reason why he
made his will at that time. But the instrument's taking effect
as a will, is not made, at all, to depend upon the event of his
return or not friom his journey There is no colour therefore
for annulling this will on the ground that it was conditional.

SUPREME COURT.
[Tarver v. Tarver and others.]

And the bill cannot be sustained on the allegation that the
probate is void. An original bill will not lie for this purpose.
If any error was committed in admitting the will to probate, it
should have been corrected by appeal. This is provided for by
the law of Alabama, which makes the county court in each
county an orphan's court for taking the probate of wills, &c.,
and declares that if any person shall be aggrieved by a definitive
sentence, or judgment, or final decree of the said orphan's
court, he may appeal therefrom to the next term of the supreme
court in chancery, or in the district of Washington, to the superior court of that district. The law also provides, that any
person interested in such will, may, within five years from
the time of the first probate thereof, file a bill in chancery to
contest the validity of the same, and the court of chancery
may thereupon direct an issue or issues in fact, to be tried by
a jury, as in other cases. But that after the expiration of five
years, the original probate of any will shall be conclusive and
binding upon all parties concerned, with the usual savings to
infants, femes covert, &c. Toulmin's Dig. 887. We think
nothing has been shown to impeach or invalidate this will, and
that the bill cannot be sustained for the purpose of avoiding
the probate. That should'have been done, if at all, by an appeal, according to the provisions of the law of Alabama. We
do not enter at all into an inquiry as to the operation of this
will, with respect to the property that will pass by it, nor
touching the right by survivorship, as set up by the defendant
in the court below These questions are not properly before
us upon the pleadings in the cause, or presented in such a manner as to enable us satisfactorily to dispose of those questions.
We think, therefore, that the decree of the court below must
be reversed, and the bill dismissed without prejudice; 'so as not
to preclude the appellees from asserting their right to any part
of the property, if any such there be, which does not pass under
the will of Richard Tarver.
The decree of the distnct court is accordingly reversed, and
the bill dismissed without prejudice.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the south-

JANUARY TERM 18a5.

181

[Tarver v. Tarver and others.)

era district of Alabama, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said district court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby reversed and annulled, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court,
with directions to that court to dismiss the bill of the complainants without prejudice.

