JANUARY TERM 1835.

AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU'S HEIRS, APPELLANTS V. THE UNITED
STATES.
A concession of one league square of land, in upper Louisiana, was made by
Don Zenon Trudeau,the lieutenant governor of that province, to Auguste
Chouteau, and a decree made by him directing the surveyor-general of the
province to put him in possession oftheland, and tosurvey the same, in order
to enable Chouteau to solicit a complete title thereof from the governorgeneral, who by the said decree was informed that the circumstances of
Choutean were such as entitled him to a grant of the land. The land was
surveyed, and the grantee put in full possession of it on the 20th of December 1803. He retained possession of it until his death. The objection to
the validity of the concession was, that the petitioner had not as many
tame cattle as the eighth regulation of governor O'Reilly, governor-general of Louisiana, required. That regulation required that the applicant for
a grant of a league square of land should make it appear that he is possessed of one hundred head of tame cattle, some horses and sheep, and two
slaves to look after them, a proportion which shall always be observed for
the grants, &c. By the Court. In the spirit of the decisions which have
been heretofore made by this court, and of the acts of confirmation passed
by congress, the fact that the applicant possessed the requisite amount of
property to entitle him to the land he solicited, was submitted to the oicer
who decided on the application, and he is not bound to prove it to the
court, which passes on the validity of the grant. These incomplete titles
were transferable, and the assignee might not possess the means of proving
the exact number of cattle in possession of the petitioner when the concession was made. The grant was confirmed.
If the court can trust the information received on this subject, neither the
governor nor the intendant-general has ever refused to perfect an incomplete title granted by a deputy governor or sub-delegate.
The regulation made by Don O'Reilly, as to the quantity of land to be
granted to an individual, is not that no individual shall receive grants
for more than one league square, but that no grant shall exceed a league
square. The words of the regulation do not forbid different grants to the
same person, and, so far as the court are informed, it has never been so
construed.

APPEAL from the district court of the United States for the
district of Missouri.
Under the authority of an act of congress, entitled "an act
enabling the claimants of lands within the limits of the state of
Missouri, and the territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings
to try the validity of their claims," the appellants, on the 18th
of May 1829, filed the following petition and documents.

SUPREME COURT.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

"To the honourable judge of the district court of the United
States for the state of Missouri.
"Respectfully showeth your petitioners, Auguste A., Gabriel
Cer6, Henry and Edward Chouteau, Ren6 Paul and Eulalie his
wife, Gabriel Paul and Louise his wife, Thomas F Smith
and Emilie his wife, that Auguste Chouteau, late of the city
and county of St Louis, state of Missouri, deceased, on the
5th day of January, in the year 1798, being then a resident of
the province of upper Louisiana, presented his petition to Don
Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant governor of said province, and of
the western part of the Illinois district, whereby he prayed that
a tract of land consisting of seven thousand and fifty-six arpents, or a square league, situated on the Mississippi river,
about fifty miles, more or less, distant from the town of St
Louis, should be granted to your petitioner for the purpose of
enabling him to establish a grazing and agricultural farm
thereon, when his means should permit him so to do. That
on the 8th day of January, in the year last aforesaid, the said
lieutenant governor did, in compliance with the prayer of said
petitioner, decree and direct that the surveyor of said province,
Don Antoine Soulard, should put your petitioner in possession
of the land so prayed for, and should survey the same, and
make a plat and certificate thereof, in order that the petitioner
might make use of the same to solicit a complete title thereon
from the governor-general of the province of Louisiana, who
by said decree was informed that the said petitioner's circumstances were such as to entitle him to that favour. That, in
pursuance of said decree or order of possession and survey, the
deputysurveyor, Don Santiago Rankin, duly thereto authorized
by the principal surveyor, the said Antoine Soulard, did, on the
20th day of December, in the year 1803, locate and survey
said tract of a league square on a part of the royal domain,
about fifty-seven miles north of St Louis aforesaid, and about
three miles south of the Mississippi boundary, the said seven
thousand and fifty-six arpents on the northwest quarter north,
by the lands of Don Joseph Brazeau, on the southeast quarter
south, northeast quarter east, and southwest quarter west, by
the royal domain lands, and said Don Santiago Rankin did, then
and there, by virtue of the decree and authority aforesaid, deliver possession of said tract of a square league, so bounded and

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

located, to said Auguste Chouteau, all which will more fully
appear by the following documents here brought into court and
ready to be produced, to wit: said original petition and decree,
and by the certificate of survey, dated the 9th of December
1803, and duly signed and sealed by the said surveyor of the
province of upper Louisiana, Don Antoine Soulard, and which
said survey is duly recorded in book B, folio 27, No. 26,
now in the office of the surveyor-general of this district. And
your petitioners aver that said Auguste Chouteau, at the date
of his said petition, and of said order or decree of said lieutenant governor, and at date of said survey, was possessor of at
least one hundred head of tame cattle, friom two to three hundred hogs, from thirty to forty horses, about forty sheep, and
from fifty to sixty slaves. The said original concession and
survey have been submitted to the board of commissioners
heretofore established for the adjudication of unconfirmed land
claims, and by it refused to be confirmed. Your petitioners
further show, that at the date of said decree of concession and
survey, and ever since, until his death, the said Auguste Chouteau has been a resident of the province of upper Louisiana, or
state of Missouri. That said Auguste Chouteau, by virtue of
the act of congress in that case made and provided, procured
the said tract and survey to be laid down on the general plat
in the office of the register of the land office of this district,
and the same has been and is reserved from public sale until
a decision shall be had by the proper authority thereon. That
the sectional boundary lines on the general plat are as follows:
commencing at the northwest corner of Joseph Brazeau's confirmed claim of seven thousand and fifty-six arpents, in the
southeast quarter of section number thirty-five, in township
number fifty-two, north, of range number one, east running
thence, north thirty, east two hundred and forty-five chains,
to a point near the line, between sections number fifteen and
twenty-two, in township number fifty-two, north, of range
number one, east, thence north sixty, east two hundred and
forty-five chains, to a point in section number twelve, in township number fifty-two, north, of range number one, east, thence
south thirty, east two hundred and forty-five chains, to the
northeast corner of the survey of Brazeau, before mentioned, in
the northwest quarter of section number twenty-nine, in town-

SUPREME COURT
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

ship number fifty-two, north, of range number two, east,
thence, with Brazeau's line, south sixty, west two hundred and
forty-five chains, to the beginning Your petitioners further
show, that no part of said tract, so laid down and surveyed, is
occupied or claimed by any person or- persons adverse to the
title of your petitioners. Your petitioners further show, that
said Auguste Chouteau has departed this life, and that previous to his decease, he devised to your petitioners the said
tract of seven thousand and fifty-six arpents, by his will, duly
executed, and now ready to be produced. Wherefore your
petitioners pray, that the validity of the claim and title to said
square league, as herein before set forth, may be inquired into
and decided upon by this honourable court., and that, inasmuch as the same might have been perfected into a complete
title, under and in conformity to the laws, usages and customs
of the government under which the same originated, had not
the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United
States, your petitioners pray that the said title and claim be
confirmed to said tract of land so surveyed, bounded and located, as aforesaid, and your petitioners pray that a citation be
directed to the district attorney of the United States, requiring
him, on a day certain, to appear and show cause, if any he can,
against the decree prayed for by your petitioners.
"The documents referred to in the foregoing petition of the
heirs and devisees of Auguste Chouteau, deceased, translations
of which were filed in evidence on the hearing of said cause,
being truly copied, are as follows, to wit.
"To Mr Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant colonel, captain in the
first regiment of Louisiana, and lieutenant governor of the
western part of Illinois.
"Auguste Chouteau, merchant, of this town, has the honour
to represent to you, that having heard it reported that there
were good lands on the Mississippi river at about fifty miles of
this town, and being possessed of sufficient means to establish
a grazing farm, has the honour to request you, to have the
goodness to grant him at the place above named a league
square of land, or seven thousand and fifty-six arpents in superficies, a quantity which never was refused, either in the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States,]

lower or upper part of this colony for similar esfablishments,
the supplicant having also the project to establish on the said
land a considetable farm, hopes that you will favour his views,
which cannot but be advantageous to the safety of those establishments, and to the internal communication, by keeping
away the Indians, who, at divers periods of the year, spread
themselves in our neighbourhoods to lay waste our farms that
are too far apart from each other to lend the necessary assistance in similar cases. Your suppliant, confident in your justice and in the generosity of the government of which you are
the representative, hopes that you will grant his request.
"AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU.
"St Louis of Illinois, January 3d 1798.
"St Lotus of Illinois, January 8th 1798.
Being satisfied that the land applied for belongs to the
king's domains, the surveyor, Antoine Soulard, will put the
applicant in possession of the same, and afterwards make a
report of his survey, in order that it may serve in soliciting the
concession of the governor-general of this province, to whom I
give the information that the said applicant is in the circumstances which merit this favour.
"ZENON TRUDEAU."

A survey of the land was returned by the deputy surveyor
on the 29th of December 1803.
The district attorney of the United States filed an answer,
denying the validity of the claim of the petitioner, and by a
decree of the district court the petition was dismissed.
From this decree the petitioners appealed.
The case was argued by Mr White, for the appellants, and
by the Attorney-General, for the United States.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the district court of Missouri, sitting under the act of the 26th of May 1824.
The devisees of Auguste Chouteau, a citizen of Missouri,
presented their petition to the district court, in which they

SUPREME COURT
[Chouteau's HeIrs v. The United States.]

state that their testator, on the 8th day of January 1798, being
then a resident of upper Louisiana, obtained from Don Zenon
Trudeau, lieutenant governor of that province, a decree directing Don Antonio Soulard, the surveyor-general of the province,
to put the said Chouteau in possession of the land prayed for;
and to survey the same, and make a plat and certificate thereof, to enable the said Chouteau to solicit a complete title thereon
from the governor-general, who, by the said decree, was informed that the said petitioner's circumstances were such as
to entitle him to that favour. In pursuance of this decree, the
survey was executed on the 20th of December 1803, and the
said Chouteau put into possession of the tract surveyed,
amounting to one league square, which he retained till his
death, when he devised it to the petitioners, who have remained
in possession ever since.
All the steps required by law for the preservation of the title
acquired by the decree of the lieutenant governor, have been
taken.
The petitioners pray that their right and title to the land
they claim may be confirmed.
The answer of the district attorney admits nothing, and refers the claim to the court.
Some testimony was taken to show that the said Auguste
Chouteau was, at the date of his petition, and of the decree of
the lieutenant governor, and at the date of the said survey, possessed of at least one hundred head of tame cattle, from two
to three hundred hogs, from one hundred and forty to one hundred and fifty horses, about forty sheep, and from fifty to sixty
slaves.
The United States gave in evidence a petition of the said
Auguste Chouteau, presented on the 24th day of January
1798, to the lieutenant governor of upper Louisiana, praying
for a concession of seven thousand and fifty-six arpents of land,
situated on the north bank of the Missouri, about one hundred
and five miles from its mouth, which petition was granted on
the succeeding day A survey of this tract was executed on
the 17th of March 1801 , and it appears to have been conveyed by Auguste Chouteau to Daniel Clarke, by deed bearing
date the 8th of September 1804. This claim was offered to
the board of commissioners, but being "1unsupported by actual

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

inhabitation and cultivation," was rejected. The board at the
same time observed, that the said concession is not duly registered.
The only objection which can be made to the validity of
this concession is, that the petitioner did not possess as many
tame cattle as the regulations of O'Reilly required. The
eighth article of those regulations declares, that no grant in the
Opelousas, Attacapas and Natchitoches shall exceed one
league in front by one league in depth. The mnth is in these
words, "to obtain in the Opelousas, Attacapas and Natchitoches, a grant of forty-two arpents in depth, the applicant
must make it appear that he is possessed of one hundred head
of tame cattle, some horses and sheep, and two slaves to look
after them, a proportion which shall always be observed for
the grants to be made of greater extent than that declared in
the preceding article."
There is some confusion in these two articles, which would
lead to a suspicion that the translation may not be accurate.
The eighth declares that no grant shall exceed a league square,
and the ninth, if to be understood literally, professes to prescribe the property which the applicant must possess to entitle
him to a larger quantity than a league square.
It is also observable that this article is limited to the three
districts mentioned, which are not in upper Louisiana, and
that they are peculiarly adapted to a grazing country, and to
a grazing country only. There could be no motive for apportioning one hundred heped of cattle to two slaves, in an agricultural country It is probable that if the regulations of
O'Reilly were extended to upper Louisiana, they were extended with modifications, at least of the ninth article, so as to
adapt the proportions of property required to the country to
which the article was extended.
This supposition derives great strength from the 'fact that
the lieutenant governor, who must have understood his orders,
certifies to the governor in his decree, "1that the said applicant
is in the circumstances that merit this favour." The applicant is proved to have possessed more slaves than were required
by the ninth article of O'Reilly's regulations, though not so
many tame cattle.
We think also that in the spirit of the decisions which have
VOL. IX.-U

154

SUPREME COURT
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

been heretofore made by this court, and of the acts of confirmation passed by congress, the fact that the applicant possessed
the requisite amount of property to entitle him to the land he
solicited, was submitted to the officer who decided on the application, and that he is not bound to prove it to the court,
which passes on the validity of the grant. These incomplete
titles were transferable, and the assignee might not possess the
means of proving the exact number of cattle in possession of
the petitioner when the concession was made.
It is remarkable that, if we may trust the best information
we have on the subject, neither the governor nor intendantgeneral has ever refused to perfect an incomplete title granted
by a deputy governor or sub-delegate.
We cannot allow this objection to prevail.
The objection drawn by the United States from the concession made on the 24th of January 1798, is not, we think, entitled t9 more weight. The eighth regulation made by O'Reilly,
isnot that no individual shall receive grants for more land than
one league square, but that no grant shall exceed one league
square. The words of the regulation do not forbid different
grants to the same person, and so far as our information goes,
it has never been so construed. Neither of these grants, so far
as we understand the geography of the country, lies in Opelousas, Attacapas or Natchitoches. It does not appear that
the grant made on the 24th of January has been established,
and the record shows that it was rejected by the board of commissioners, for reasons on the sufficiency of which we do not
now decide. But it is conclusive that the concession of the 24th
of January was subsequent to that of the 8tb, and consequently
could not affect it.
We~are of opinion that the district court erred in declaring
the concession made to Auguste Chouteau on the 8th of January 1798 to be invalid, and that the same ought tobe confirmed.
The decree of the district court is reversed and annulled, and
this court, proceeding to give such decree as the district court
ought to have given, doth declare, the claim of the petitioners
to the tract of land in their petition mentioned, to be valid, and
doth confirm their title to the same, acccording to the boundaries thereof, as described in the survey made by James Rankin,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chouteau's Heirs v. The United States.]

deputy surveyor, and certified by Anthony Soulard, principal
deputy surveyor of upper Louisiana, as appears by his certificate
of the 29th of December 1803, contained in the record.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the district
of Missouri, and was argued by counsel, on consideration
whereof, this court is opinion that the claim of the appellants
is valid, and ought to be confirmed. Whereupon, it is ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said
district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled, and this court proceeding to pronounce such
decree as the said district court ought to have given, doth declare the claim of the petitioners to the tract of land in their
petition mentioned, to be valid, and doth confirm their title to
the same according to the boundaries thereof, as described in
the survey made by James Rankin, deputy surveyor, and certified by Antonio Soulard, principal deputy surveyor of upper
Louisiana, as appears by his certificate of the 29th December
1803, contained in the record.

