210

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.

the case, within the meaning of the act of Congress ; for it does not
show whether the difficulty arose upon the construction of the act
of Congress on which the indictment was founded, - or upon the
form of proceeding adopted to inflict the punishment,.- or upon
any supposed defect in the counts in the indictment. On the coitrary, the whole case 'is ordered to be certified upon the indictment, demurrer, and joinder, leaving, this court to look into the
record, and determine for itself whether any sufficient objection can
be made in bar of the prosecution ; and without informing us what.
questions had been raised in the Circuit Court, upon which they
differed.
Neither can this omission in the certificate be supplied by the
causes of demurrer assigned by the defendant. The judges do not
certify that they differed on the points there stated, or on either of
them, and indeed the third ground there taken is as vague and indefinite as the certificate itself, and could not therefore help it, even
if it could be invoked in its aid.
But we are bound to look to the certificate of the court alone for
tho question which occurred, and for the point on which they differed, and as -this does not appear, we have no jurisdiction in the
case, and it must be ,remanded to the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United' States for the Districi of
Michigan, and on the point and question on which the judges of the
said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress
in such case made and providdd, and was argued by counsel ;
and it appearing to this court, upon an inspection of the said transgript, that no point in the case, within the meaning of the act of
Congress, has been certified to this cotirt, it is thereupon now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be and the same
is hereby dismissed, and that this cause be- and the .same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law.

JOHN C. SHEPPARD AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN
WILsON.
"Where a writ of error was allowed, the citation signed, and the bond approved, by
the chief justice of the -Territorial court of Iowa, it-was a sufficient compliance
with the statutes of the United States,Under the acts of 1789 and 1792, the clerk of the Circuit Court where the judg-.
ment was rendered may issue a writ of error, and a judge of that court may sign
the citation, and approve the bond.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

211

Sheppard et al. v. Wilson.
The act of 1838, providing that writs of error, and appeals from the final decision
of the Supreme Court of the Territory, shall be allowed in the same manner and
under the same regulations as from the Circuit Courts of the United States:gives
to the clerk of the Territorial court the power to issue the writ of error, and to a
judge of that-court the power to sign the citation, and approve the bond.'

.Mr. Grant moved to dismiss the writ of error in this case, upon
two grounds.
1st. Irregularity in the allowance of the writ of error, and the
citation.
2d. That since the rendition of the judgment Iowa had become a
State, and cited 3 How.'534 ; 4 How. 590.
7Mr. C. Coxe opposed the motion. He stated that the writ of
error had been allowed, the citation signed, and bond approved,
all by a judge of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa. He
then referred to the acts of 1792 and 1838, and contended that
there was no irregularity.
•Mr. Hastings controverted these views, and sustained the motion
to dismiss.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought up by a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Iowa.
' A motion has been made to dismiss it, upon the ground that the
writ of error was allowed, the citation signed, and t6e bond approved, by the chief justice of the Territorial court, and not by
one of the justices of a Circuit Court of the United States, or a
justice of the Supreme Court, as required by the act of 1789, ch.
20, § 22.
The act of 1838, ch. 96, § 9, under which this writ of error
is brought, provides that writs of error and appeals from the final
decision of the Supreme Court of the Territory shall be allow6d
and taken to thi§ court in the same manner and under the same regulations as from the Circuit Courts of the United States, ihere the
value in controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars. And the
act of 1789, which regulates writs of error from the Circuit Courts,
requires the citation to be signed by a judge of the Circuit Court in
which the judgment was rendered, or by a justice of the Supreme
Court ; and that the judge or justice signing the citation shall take
good and sufficient security for the prosecution of the writ of error,
and the payment of the damages and costs if the plaintiff in error
shall fail to make his plea good. And the act of May 8, 1792,
ch. 36, § 9 (1 Stat. at Large, 278), authorizes the clerks of the Circuit
Courts-to issue writs of error in the same manner as the clerk of
the Supreme Court might have issued them under the act of 1789.
Under these two last-mentioned acts of Congress, the judgment
of a Circuit Court may be brought up for reexamination to the

212

SUPREME COURT.
Sheppar& et 'al. v. Wilson.

Supreme Court, by a writ of error, issued by the clerk of the court
in which .the judgment was rendereg, and the citation may.be signed
and the bond approved by a judge of the said court. And as the
district judge is a member of the Circuit Court'when sitting for his
district,'he may sign the citation and approve the bond. The act
of 1838 having declared that writs of error may be piosecuted from
the judgments of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa to this
court, in the 6ame manner and under the same regulations as from
Circuit Courts of the United States, it would seem to be very clear
that the writ of error may be issued by the clerk of the Territ6rial
court, and the citation signed and the bond approved' by one of
the judges. This is the plain impbrt of the words of the law ; and
we think they cannot justly receive any other interpretation. There
is certainly nothing in the object and purpose of the act of Congress
calculated to create any doubt upon this subject, or to call for a
different construction. For it can hardly be supposed that Congress intended to deny to suitors in the Territorial courts the conveniences and facilities which it had provided for suitors in tthe
courts of the United States when sittihg in a State, and to require
them to apply to the clerk of the Supreme Court for n writ of error,
and to a justice of the Supreme Court to sign the 'utation and approve the bond, when these duties could be more conveniently performed by the, clerk and a judge of the court of the Territory, and indeed far better and more safely performed, as regardsthe approval of the bond, since the judge of the.Supreme Court would have
frequently much difficulty in deciding upon the sufficiency of the
sureties in a bond executed in a remote Territory. _The construction contended for would in its results be very neafly eqyiivalent to an
absolute denial of the writ of error. We think it cannot be maintained, and that the writ of error in this case was lawfully issued by
the clerk of the Supreme Court of the Territory, and the citation and
bond properly signed andfapproved by the chief justice of the court.
. Another objection was taken upon the motion to dismiss. It
was insisted, that, Iowa having. been admitted into. the Union as a
State since the writ of error was brought, the act of 1838, regulating its judicial' proceedings as a Territory, is necessarily abrogated
and repealed ; and consequently there is no law now in force authorizing this court to reexamine and affirm or reverse a judgment
rendered by the Supreme Court of the" Territory, or giving this
court any jurisdiction over it. This difficulty has, however, been
removed by an act of Congress, passed during the present session
(and since this motion was made), which authorizes the Supreme
Court to proceed to hear-and determine cases of this descciption.*
And as this objection no longer exists, and the writ of error, citation, and bond appear to have been regularly issued, signed, and
approved, the case is legally and properly in this couri, and the
motion to dismiss must be overruled.
* This is an error. See Appendix.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

213

Miners' Bank v. The United States.

Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Oir. Grant, on a prior
day of the present term, to dismiss this writ of error, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon, had as well against as in support of
the said motion, it is now here ordered by this court, that the said
motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

MINERS' BANK or DUBUQUE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED
STATES

EX REL.

JAIaES GRANT.

A judgment of a court, sustaining a demurrer under the following circumstances,
is not a final judgment which can be reviewed by this court.
Information in the nature of a quo warrarln, calling upon the Presideint, Directors,
and Company of the liners' Bank of Dubuque to show by what warrant they
claimed the right to use the franchise.
Plea, referring to an act of incorporation,
Rephlication, that the act of incorporation had been repealed.
Rejoinder, that the repealing law was passed without notice to the parties, and
without any evidence of misuse of the franchise.
Demurrer to the rejoinder.
Joinder in demurrer.
Sustaining the demurrer, without any further judgment of the court,' did not prevent the parties from continuing to exercise the franchise, and therefore is not a
final judgment.

The writ of error must, upon motion, be dismissed.

A MOTIO31"was made by Mlir. Grant and ,Mr.
Hastings to dismiss the writ of error in this case, upon the same grounds as in
the preceding case of Sheppard and others v. Wilson, and upon
the additional ground, that the judgment in this case was not a
final judgment.
.JITr. Webster. If it was not a final judgment, the court below
is abolished, and the counsel on the other side'may make whatever
use they ean 9f the record.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been brought here by a writ of error to he Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa. A motion hasbeen made
to dismiss the writ upon several grounds, and among others, upon
the ground that the judgment of the Territorial court is not a final
one ; and therefore, under the act of June 12, 1838, ch. 96, § 9
(5 Statutes at Large, 238), cannotbe brought here for revision by
writ of ,rror.
It appears that an information in the nature of a quo warranto
was- filed by the United -States in the District Court of Iowa,
against certain persons named inthe information, who are now the
plaintiffs in error, charging them with having used the liberties and

