'72

SUPREME

COURT.

Miller v. Herbert et al.

necessary, and as this appears to have been done, the protest ought
to have been received in evidence, and.we shall cause it to be cer"tified accordingly to the Circuit Court.
Order.
'This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United $tates for the Southern District of Mississippi, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed -in opinion, and
which were certified, to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is, the opinion of this
court 'that the, protest offered in this case ought to have been reeived as evidence; wherefore, it is now. here ordered and adjudged that 'it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

HENRr MILLER, ADIIINISTRATO or GEORGE MILLER, DECEASED,
PLAINTJFF. IN ERROR, v. BETSEY HERBERT AND CAROLINE HER.
-BERT, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR. Under a statute o1 Maryland passed in 1796, a deed of manumission is net good
unless ;recorded within six months after its date; and this law is in force in
Washington county, District of Columbia.
The statutes and decisions of Maryland exafnined.

This case was broug t up, by writ of error, .rom the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, for the county of Washington. The defendants in error filed their petition in the Circuit Court,
by which they claimed a right to their freedom, under a deed of
manumission executed'to them on the 28th of February, 1842, by
their owner, George Miller, who, was an inhabitant of Washington
county, at the daite of the deed, and at- the time of his'death, and
on whose estate the plaintiff in error bad taken administration. ,
The petition, setting out the character'of the claim of the defend.ants in error, was in the' following words.
To the Honorable, Judges of the Circuit Court of the District of
Cclumbia for Washington County:
The petition of Betsey Herbert and Caroline Herbert humbly
showeth, that your petitioners were the slaves of George Miller,
late of the city of Washington, deceased ; that the said decedent,
in his lifetime, intending to manumit and set free from slavery your
petitioners, caused to be prepared a paper-writing -for that purpose,
'and sent for' S. Drury, Esq., a justice of the peace of said county,

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

73

Miller v. Herbert et al.

to take his acknowledgment hereof, and also Charles Bowerman and
John Hoover to witness the execution thereof; that on the 28th day of
February, 1842, the said justice and the said witnesses came7 to the
house of said George Miller, and the said George Miller did then
and there, in the presence of the said witnesses, execute the said
paper-writing, and did acknowledge the-same before the said justice
of the peace ; but the said witnesses neglected to sign, or did not
understand that they were called upon to slgn, the said instrument as
witnesses ; that the said George Miller retained the said aperwriting in his possession until some short time before his death, when
he gave it to your petitioners, with instructions to place it in the
hand and follow the directions of Mr. John MoL elland, of this
city, which your petitioners did ; and the said John McLelland, discharging the said trust, placed the said paper-writing in the hands of
Joseph H. Bradley, Esq., an attorney of this court, who lodged
the said paper in the Orphans' Court of the county aforesaid.

Your petitioners claim that, by the said paper-writing, so exe-

cuted and delivered, they are entitled to their freedom, and they are

advised
it was not necessary that the said paper should ha been
signed by said witnesses, an d that the same is a good and operative
deed.

But if the said deed ought to have been signed by

'said wit:
nesses, they claim that this~court, acting as a court of chancery,
wil
permit the execution thereof to be proved now, and will decree the

said deed to be put on record.
They. further show that, after the delivery of the said deed to
your petitioners, the said George Miller departed this life intestate,
and that Henry Miller administered on his estate, and now claims
"them as part of the personal estate oC said George Miller, and they
pray that he may be summoned and required to show cause why
the paper-writing -shall not he admitted to record, and your petitioners declared free.
sJOSEPHmi. BRADLEY, for Petitioners.
The counsel for the respective parties then filed ne following
agreement :
i th areedount of Counsel.
It is agreed, that if this court shall be of opinion that they would
have
power, sitting
in chancery,
to decree
the deed,
the execution
of which
was imperfect
underthetherecord
law, of
because
the

witnesses did not sign it, "in such case this court shall have the
same power to decree or adjudge the said defect to be rectified as
it would if sitting as a court of chancery," it being distinctly understood that he facts are not admitted, but proof thereof is required,
and the defendant is to offer any legal proof to meet the petitioners'
case; and te petitioners are to sustain their petition by competent
proof. It being the object of this agreement to avoid the expense
"voL. v.

7

74

SURREME ,.COURT.
Miller v. Herb~,rt et al.

of a bill in chancery, and to bring all the'questions which may arise
at law or in equity before the court under the petition.
JOSEPH H. BRADLEY, for Petitioners.
WILLIAM L. BRENT, for Defendant.
The instrument relied on in support of the petitioi, as the deed
of manumission from George Miller, and referred to in the bill of
exceptions as paper marked A., was in these words
To all whom it may concern, be it known that I, George Miller,
of Washington county, District of Columbia, for divers good causes
and considerations. me thereunto moving, have released from slaver, liberated, manumitted aLnd set free, and by these presents do
hereby release from slavery, lilerate, manumit, and set free, my
negro women, one named Betsey Herbert, about forty-two years of
age, and the other named Caroline Herbert; about seventeen years of
ag both able to work and gain 'a sufficient livelihood and maintenance ; and they, the said negro women, named Betsey Herbert
and Caroline Herbert, I do declare to be henceforth free, manumitted, and discharged from all manner of. service or servitude to
-me, my executors or administrators, forever.
In witness lyhereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal, thig
28th day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and forty-two.
GEORGE MILLER. [Seal.1
District of Columbia, Washington County, to wit:
e. it remembered, and it is hereby certified, that on this 28th
day of February, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and
forty-two, personally appeared before me, a justice of the peace in
and for said county and district, George. Miller, and acknowledged
the foregoing deed or manumission to be his act and deed for the
purposes therein.mentioned, as witness my hand and seal.
-

SAMUEL DRURY, J. P.

[Seal.]

Issue having been joined upon the right alleged in the petition,
and a jury been empannelled to try that issue, the following bill of
exceptions was, at the trial, sealed by the judges.
Defendant's Bill of Exceptione.
Betsey and Caroline Herbert; v. Henry Miller, Administrator of
George 1iller.
The plaintiffs offered evidence tending to prove that George
Miller, who owned and held the slaves, petitioners, sent for a
magistrate, Mr. Drury, and also two witnesses to witness the paper
marked A:, which paper was signed by said Miller in the presence
of said witnesses, and acknowledged before said Drury, but.was
not then, and never was, signed by said intended attesting witnesses,
before whom and in whose presence said Miller admitted the deed
to be his, and desired said witnesse§'to attest "to the same ; to the

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

75

Miller v. Herbert et al.

reading of said paper in evidence the defendant objected, and said
objection was overruled and excepted to by the defendant. The
defendant then offered evidence tending to prove that the" paper
marked A. was, immediately upon the death of the maker, Miller,
which took place about eighteen months after the execution thereof,
delivered to Ar. McLelland, by the petitioners, who stated that it
was so done by the direction of Miller, and who also stated that they
held possessibn of the paper from the time of its execution until that
time, and also that Miller, the grantor in said paper A., died largely
indebted, and left no property other than said petitioners, sufficient
to pay his debts ; and also, that -defendant has regularly and duly
administered upon the estate in this county of said deceased.
Whereupon the defendant, by his counsel, moved the court to instruct the jury that upon the evidence aforesaid the plaintiffs are not
entitledto recover ; which instruction was refused by the courti and
the defendant excepts to said refusal, and prays that this his several
bills of exceptions may be signed, sealed, and enrolled, which is
accordingly done.
W. CRANCH,
[Seal.]
B. THRUSTON. [Seal.]
The jury, under the instructions given by the court, found a
a verdict for the petitioners, viz. that they were free.
To review these iwo decisions of the court, the case was brought
up by writ of error.
It was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and Air.
Lawrence, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, insisted that there was error.
First, in admitting the instrument A. to be read in evidence to the
jury ; and, second, in refusing to instruct the jury that upon the said
instrument, which was not recorded Within eighteen months after
the date, nor at any time during the life of George Miller, the
petitioners could not recover.
Mr. Lawrence, for defendants in error.
The only facts which can be taken into consideration, in this case,
are those which appear in the record. Those facts afford no ground
for the assumption, on the other side, that the deed of manumission,
now in controversy, was retained in the possession of the grantor
until the time of his death, and there is, consequently, no foundation
for the argument that has been advanced, - that although this deed
was, on the face of it, to take effect in presenti, yet it was, as
matter of fact, to take effect in futuro.
As to the remarks that have been made upon the double aspect
in which the petition in the court below is regarded, that is, as a
petition for freedom, and in the nature of a bill in equity, this court
is referred to the agreement which is made part of the record, and

76

SUPREME COURT.
Miller v. Herbert et al.

in which every defect that a court of chancery is competent to
remedy, is to be considered as having been already remedied. This
agreement is of special importance, in regard to any objection that
might arise in consequence of the deed having been received in
evidence in its then existing state.
The whole argument, for the plaintiffs in error, proceeds upon the
ground that there was only one class of,deeds comprehended in the
act of 1796, or, that if there were two classes, they were both to
be authenticated in the same manner. I maintain that there were
two classes of deeds to be differently authenticated ; the one, to
take -effect in presenti, and to be "evidenced" by two witnesses;
the other, to take effect in futum'o, and to be qcknowledged and
recorded.
This was a deed of immediate emancipation, and was "1evidenced" by two witnesses. It is to be presunedthat the legislature, in omitiig the ordinary and- technical words, " attested and
subscribed," and making use of a word hardly known in legal
phraseology, did so understandingly. This 'is especially the case,
when it-is remembered that prior to the act of 1752 (almost in the
same words as that of 1796), there was no restraint in the manumission of slaves. Those acts were in restraint of a common right.
The word " evidenced" is a verbal derivative from the term evidence, and is equally extensive in signification, unless there is some
technical usage to restrict it. There is no such techiical usage.
Evidence is a word of the largest signification known to the law; and
embraces every kind of proof. Jac. Law Dic.; 3 Co. Litt.
487 ; I Greerieaf on Evidence, 1 ; 3 B1. Com. 367. Wherever
any word implying proof, other than the words "attested"
or
"subscribed," has been used, the uniform decision (except in
Maryland) has been, that the subscription of the names is not
necessary. 2 Tuck. Black. 308, note ; Turner v. Stip, 1 Wash.
Va. Rep. 322 ; 4 Kent's Com. 514 ; 6 Cruise's Dig. (Am. ed.),
44, 47, note's;
The case of James v. Gaither, 2 Har. and Johns. 176, has
been cited as the Maryland construction of the act of 1796, and as
decisive of this case. That case is not of local' authority here, io
the sense in which this court usually defers to the local construction
of local laws. By the act of Congress, the. laws of Maryland, then
in force, were made the laws of th6 District of Columbia. But, if
it were otherwise, this couri would examine the subject de novo.
Fenwick v. Chapman, 9 Peters, .461 ; Wallingsford v.Allen, 10
Peters, 593., See opinion of the judges, seriatim, on the case of
James v. Gaither, in 7 Leigh, 300 - et seq. But admitting the constriction of the Maryland Court of Appeals, in James v. Gaither,
to be correct, it touches this case only in a single point, viz in the
meaning it gives to the term "cevidenced." That was a case of
future emancipatiof,. and the court decide, -hat in such a case the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

7

Miller v. Herbert et aL

evideed-must not only be acknowledged and recorded, but also
denced " by two witnesses. But it does not decide that the converse of the proposition is true ; that deeds in presenti must not
only be " evidenced," but also acknowledged and recorded. Admit, then, that the 'act requires the witnesses to subscribe their
names, can'a court of chancery require or permit it now to be done ?
There is no time limited, in which it must be done. The act does
not, like the statute of wills, require, it to be done at the time.
Whenever done the terms of the law are satisfied. "What is it that
is asked'? -that the requisitions of the act should be set aside ?
that merely fictitious names should be inserted, to present to the eye
only a compliance with the statute ? By no means. But that
those who actually were.witnesses to ihe deed should be 'permitted
to put their names to it. The deed, when thus perfected, would
present a literal, substantial, and conscientious fulfilment of the
requisites of the act.
But it has been objected that .this deed was in prejudice of
-creditors. To this the answer is, that there is no evidence, in th*e
record, that the grantor was indebted at'all, at the time of the execution of the deed. Proof of this fact is necessary. It is, indeed,
stated that he died, leaving no other property sufficient to pay his.
debts. This is too general from which to infer (if this court could
indulge in any inference as to the facts) that he was indebted eighteen months before. The degisions, under the 13 Eliz., have
uniformly been, that a voluntary deed cannot be' avoided by-creditors, unless it is shown that the grantor was indebted at the time of
a personal disability, aid
its execution ; and, in that case, there is.
the deed is void, ab iaitio. 4 Cruise's Dig. 461, 462 ; 1 Ak.93, 94 ; 1 Madd. Rep. 419, 420 ; 3 Johns. Oh. Rep. 490, 493,
But, in this case, there was no su~ch dsability shown. at the execution of the instrument. The grant6r, having done every'thing, on
his part, had parted with all power over the .subject. The act of'
subscribing, by the witnesses, was merely formal, and no time limited
in which it should be done. And althoughi, until that act should be
performed, freedom wight not pass; still no act of the grantpr then.
could revoke the deed. This view is illustrated by the case of a"
bargain and sale, under Stat. 27 Hen. 8,' requiring enrolment before lands, &c., should pass. It has been decided, under that
statute, that if the bargainer dies, or aliens the land, or marries, or
becomes bankrupt, after the execution of the deed, and before its
enrolment, and then within the time limited the deed is enrolled, it
overrides any and all of these intermediate acts, and takes effect, by
relation, from the time of its execution. Shep. Toiuch. 224, 226 :
2 Vin. Ab. 419 ; 1 Bac. Ab. 688 ; 7 Leigh, 696, 711, 712.
There can be no difference, as to the law of relation, whether the
formal act, remaining to be done, be enrolment or attestation ; nor
whether a time he or be not limited in -the statute.
7*

78

SUPREME COURT.
Miller

,.

Herbert et al.

As to the aid which courts of equity will extend in carrying into
effect instruments of emancipation, cited 1 Hen. and Mun. 519;
2 Ibid. 132; 1 Leigh, 465 ; 6 Rand. 162.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, after having read the statement of the
case at the commencement of this report, proceeded to deliver the
opinion of the court.
By the statute of Maryland, passed in 1715, cap. 44, § 22, it is
enacted, - " That all negroes, and other'slaves then imported, and
their children, then born or thereafter to be born, shall be slaves for
life." Upon examining the legislation of Maryland, from the period
of the -law of 1715' a variety of enactments will be seen, showing
the policy of this State in the government of her slave population ;
and, as entering essentially into that policy, must be considered the'
several regulations under which she has permitted manumission,
either by deed or by will. The enactments here referred to may
be found in Kilty's Laws, vol. 1, session of 1752, cap. 1, where
they are collated, by their dates, down to te act of December 31st,
1796, under which last mentioned statute the questions now before
this court have immediately arisen. In the interpretation given to
these statutes by the tribunals of .the State, one characteristic will
impress itself on every mind ; and that is, the strictness with which
the laws have been expounded in reference to the power of manumission conferred by them. It seems to have been thought that
very little, or indeed nothifig, was permitted by the policy of the
State to construction or implication, but that rather the conditions
prescribed for the exercise of the power conceded should be illled almost to the letter. Of the propriety of views such as these,
on the part of the State, with regard to her own internal policy, no
just ground of complaint can be alleged ; but of the reality of those
views, a reference to a few of the adjudications of her courts will
leave no doubt. By the Stat. of 1752, cap 1, § 5, manumisiior
was allowed, by 'writing under bond and seal, "evidenced by two
good witnesses at least." Under this statute arose the' case of
negro James v. Gaither, which was a claim to freedom, upon a
writing signed and sealed, but subscribed by a single witness only.
Parol proof being offered to establish the fact, that the deed was
executed in the presence of another witness, who-did not attest it
by subscription, the Court of Appeals ruled such proof to be in:
competent and inadmissible under the statute. See 2 Harris and
Johnson, 176.
The case of Wicks v. Chew et al., 4 Har. & Johns. 543, a
case arising under the statute of 1796, is yet more strongly illustrative of the rule abovementioned. By the statute just referred to,
chap. 67, § 29 (Kilty's Laws), deeds of manumission are required
to be recorded within six months from thair date. By another statute of Maryland, passed in 1785 (Kilty's Laws, chap. 72), it is

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

79

Miller v. Herbert et al.

provided, in the thixd section thereof, -" That in case 'any deed
hath been or hereafter shall be executed, to the validity of-which
deed recordingis necessary, and such deed hath not been or shall
not be recorded agreeably to'law, without any fraudulent intention of
the party claiming under the same, the chancellor, upon petition of
the party to whom the said deed was executed, or of his, her, or
their legal epresentative, or of any of them claiming the land or
other thing conveyed or intended to be conveyed by such deed-, and
without the appearance or hearing of the defendant or:defeIidants,
shall. have power to decree the recocding of the said 'deed in the
county or general court records, within such time from the dit& of
the decree as it ought originally to have been recorded from the date
of the deed'; giving to the deed, when thus -admitted to record, the
same effect it would have had if the irregularity ths cured'had
never occurred. Chew and others, claiming freedom under a deed
from Darnell, against Wicks and others, heirs and devisees of,Darnell, filed their petition with the chancellor, stating that Darnell
had died without putting the deed on record within the six months
prescribed by law, and praying the chancellor, upon due notice to
the heirs and devisees, to decree that the deed be recorded, that
thereby validity might le restored to it., The chancellor, deeming
himself so authorized by the third section of the'act of 1785, decreed
that the deed be admitted to record within six months from the date
of his decree. The Court of Appeals reversed this decision of the
chancellor, and the reasoning of the court conclusively shows the
principle on which e a these instment of manunision;.and
on which they distinguish them from transactions with a-party who
is sui juris. They 'declare that
the statute'of 1785 embraces only
but inchoate rights, but still of rights fouinded on
cases of mutual

some valid co
nsideration such as courts can take notice of nnd enforce ; that manumission by the laws of 1\'aryland is a mere gratuity,
in the confaculty
created no the
have
canacts
and no
untillegal
evidenced
by and
all the
or requisites
law prescribes,
existence,
has
t of that gratuity. Th'e language of the Court of
templated
Appeals is as follows:-" The acts of assembly referred to
(i. e. by the chancellor in support of his decree) are not intended
to give relief in cases which were bfore without remedy, but to
equitable
a party, acquiring
give an additional remedy by enabling
to
of recording,
in l

rights under a deed not operative
perfect those rights, by applying to. the cha~cellor to order the
original instrument to be recorded and thus to give it the effect
of
time, instead
recorded in due
which by law it would have had aifconveyance,
a specific
or edforce
going into chancery to compel

performance. They are intendea o give an a cumulative remedy
to persons ableto contract, and who by deed acquire rights which
with the power to' prosecute those rights. But.
equity will protce,
as he is a slave can have
long
a negrotu
State,
this
by the laws of

80

SUPREME COURT.
Miller v. Herbert et al.

no rights adverse to those of his master.r be can neither sue nor be
sued, nor can he make any contract or acquire any rights ander a
'deed which a court of law or equity can enforce. And as Itis the
recording of a deed of manumission within the time prescribed by
law, which entitles him to his freedom, he continues a slave and
can acquire no' rights under such an instrument until it is so recorded, and consequently cannot go either into a court of law or
equity for relief of any kind." Again, the court say in this case,
that - " A master may execute and acknowledge a deed of manu.mission, and afterwards destroy it or keep it, and refuse to have it
recorded, and the slave remains a slave without redress." Another
striking instance of the rule of interpretation of their own statutes,
adopted by the courts .of Maryland, is found in the case of negro
Anna Maria Wright v.Lloyd N. Rogers, reported in 9 Gill &
Johns. 181. In. this ease,- Tilghman, the owner of the female
slave; executed and delivered to her, in 1832, a deed of manumission, which was duly acknowledged but not recorded. Subsequently, Tilghman sold and conveyed the same slave by bill of sale,
duly acknowledged and recorded, to a. purchaser who had notice at
the time of the previous deed of manumission. This purchaser afterwards sold the slave to Rogers, to whom, in 1833, h. executed
and delivered a bill of sale, which was acknowledged and recorded
according to law. The legislature, at their session, December,
1834, passed a special law, authorizing the deed of manumission to
be recorded, providing further that the same when recorded should
be as valid and effectual for every purpose as if it had been duly
recorded according to law. After the deed* bad been recorded
pursuant to this law, the negro filed her petition for freedom ; the
judgment of the County Court was against her title, and that judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
By the 29th section of the statute of 1796 (Kilty's Laws, chap.
67), the power of manumission by writing under seal'was regnacted
from previous statutes, enumerated, and repealed in the 31st section
of the act of 1896. In the 29th section, many of the conditions
contained in the prior laws' are prescribed, and amongst these are
the requisitions, that the slave to be emancipated shall be sound in
mind and body, and not over 45 years of age'; that the deed of
manumission shall not be in prejudice of creditors ; -that it shall be
acknowledge4 before a magistrate, and entered amongst the records
of the County Court where the person or persons granting such
frepdom shall reside, wvithin six months from the date of such instrument of writing. Upon the construction of this section of the act
of 1796 arose the questions presented to the court below, and now
brought here for adjudication. These questions are various, as appears by the bill of exceptions sealed by. the judges of the Cii'cuit
Court, and by the assignment of erors upon the record ; but they
are all necessarily subordinate to a decision upon the validity of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

81

Miller v. Herbert et al.

instrument of manumissioir as affected by the failure to.record it
within six months from its date. This omission is admitted in the
petition for freedom, and is made out by the proofs upon which the
instruction prayed by the defendant in the court below was asked
and refused, and it remains to ibe considered how far such omission
operated to destroy all foundation of the right sought to be asserted
in this case. This inquiry, as a question of Maryland law, we ihink
is without difficulty. The decisions already quoted, are clear and
explicit. They treat the right asserted-and the instrument alleged
in evidence thereof as having no legal existence, as nullities to all
intents and purposes, and therefore as nothing of which common
law or equity can take cognizance, until that right and the pretended
evidence of it can be brought forward, attended with every mark
and attribute of being, which the statute has called for, and one-of
these, as clearly defined as any Gther, is admission to record. This
indeed is treated as the great, the capital test of existence, for it is
this which places the transaction definitively beyond the cointrol of
the master, and proclaims, beyond the power of denial, both the intent and its consummation. And why should this not be treated as
a question of Maryland law. The statutes of Maryland in being at
the cession of the District of Columbia were adopted as the laws of
the county of Washington, to be there enforced until altered by authority df Congress, and the rights of person and of property vested
or existing under those laws, and all interpretations of those laws by
the supreme tribunal of Maryland, became in like manner the rules
of right within the same county. This case, too, is one of a right
s6ught to be maintained under a Maryland statute, a right which
seeks to Jay its foundation in: the terms of that statute, and no where
else. 'But whilst it is conceded as a general prdposition that the
laws of Maryland, at the period of the cession of the District of Columbia, are laws of the county of Washington till changed by the
authority of Congress, it has been urged that, in instances in which
the Maryland statutes have received no settled interpretation by the
Maryland courts anterior to the cession of this district, the. federal
courts are free to interpret the provisions of those statutes as they
would be to pass upon any other subject of original cognizance, and
would not be bound by decisions of the State courts made posterior
to the cession. This position is not denied; it has indeed been
sanctibned by this court in the cases of Fenwick v. Chapman, 9
Peters,'461, and Wallingsford v. Allen, 10 Peters, 583. But admitting this position fully, still we. must also admit that the courts of
the United States would feel great respect for .the decisions of the
State courts upon questions essentially connected with the general
internal policy of the State, nay, would yield to tbose opinions upon
matters of doubtful construction, or wherever well ascertained and
paramount obligations did not forbid such an acquiescence. But
the statute of 1796 was anterior to the cession of the District of

82

SUPREME COURT.
Miller v. Herbert et al.

Columbia ;,and although the cases of Wicks v. Chew et al., 4
Har. & Johns., and of Anna Maria Wright v: Rogers, 9 Gill &
Johns., were posterior to that event, still these cases cannot be correctly understood as deciding any new question, or as introducing
any principle not well settled long before it. The case of James v.
Gaither occurred under the statute of 1752, and upon an instrument of manumission executed in 1784 ; the statute of 1796, too,
is a regnactment of provisions of other statutes, going back as far as
thI year 1752, and the decision in James v. Gaither, and in the
subsequent cases, are nothing more than the repeated expositions of
a settled policy or rule of interpretation of the Maryland statutes,
viz.- that the conditions prescribed by them must be strictly fulfilled; that withou such fulfilment any pretended instrument of
manumission must be treated as a nullity, and can impart no rights,
can give no standing in court, either at law or in equity. We think
then that this is a question of Maryland law, -which has been settled
by the courts of Maryland, and should not now be disturbed ; that
in conformity with decisions of those courts, the recording of the
deed of manumission in this case, within the time prescribed by
the statute of '1796, was an indispensable prerequisite to confer any
iights on the petitioners in the court below, or to give them any
standing in a court of law or equity ; that in,
accoidanc6 w ith this
interpretation of the statute, the Circuit Court'should have given the
instruction asked for by the counsel for the defendants ; that in refusing to give such instruction that court has 'erred, and therefore its
decision should be reversed.
In reference to the agreement signed by counsel and annexed to
the record in this case, and by which all the powers that a court of
equity could properly exert in aid of instruments defectively executed-were conceded to the Circuit Court as if sitting as a court of
equity, we remark that the grounds presented by that agreement are
entirely covered by the opinion above expressed of the pbsolute
nullity of the deed in question, it being no more within the powers
of a court of equity~than it is within those of a court of law, to set
up-and establish that which is illegal oi' wholly void.
Order.
This case came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by eounsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the. said Circuit
Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs',
and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefaciasde'nowr

