96

SUPREME COURT.
Hall -. Smith.

pose of presenting the question to the court. The counsel for the
plaintiffs assumed, as is apparent from his interrogatories in chief,
that the witness was incompetent on the ground of his being a
party in interest and took upon himself the burden of removing the
objections. For this. purpose, he produced his discharge in bankruptcy, and on the 14thi inst., put the question to himWhether he
had any interest in the suit; and if not to tell how it had ceased.
The question suggested does not arise in the case, and therefore
it is unnecessary to examine it.
For the above reasons, we think the court below erred, and that
the judgment must be reversed, with a venire de novo.
, Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the, District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
-whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said District Court, in this cause, be and the
saine.is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the
same is hereby remanded to the said District Court, with directions
to award. a venire faoias de novo.

HENRI; .A. H.11,

PLAINTXFF, V,~ WILLIM~ 9XITrH.

Where there are privies in a contract with the knowledge ofa debtor to secure to
his creditor the payment ofif debt, the payment of it by any one of them other
than the 4dobtoi, is a payment at his request, Lnd is an express assumpsit td reim•burse the amount.
Where the surety ofa surety pays the debt ofa principal, under a legal obligation,
from which the principal was bound to relieve him, such a payment is a sufficient consideration to raise an implied assumpsit to repay the amount, although
the pyment was made without a request from the principal.

THIs case came up on a cartificate of division from the Circuit
Codurt of the United States for the District of Maryland.
The United States of America, District of Maiyland, to wit:
At a Circuit Court of the United. States for the Fourth Circuit,
in alad for the Maryland District, begun and held at the city of Baltimbie, on the first Monday in April, in the 'year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and forty-four.
Present, the' Honorable Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the
Supfeme Court of the United States ; the. Honorable Upton S.
Heath, Judge of Maryland- District; Z. Collins Lee, Esquire,
Attorney-; Thofhas B. Pottenger, Esquire, Maishall; Thomas
Spicer, Clerk...
Among other, were the following proceedings, to wit:

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

97

Hall v. Smith.

HMNit A. HALL V. WILLIAM SMTH.
District of Maryland, Circuit Court of #i6 Un.ted States,:April
term, 1844.
The declaration in. this case contained counts, in the usual form,
for money lent and advanced, money paid, laid' out, and expended,
and, money had and received, and an. averment that the defendant
was citizen of the State of. Mississippi, and the plaintiff of the
State of Maryland. Plea, non-assumpsit, and issue upon it. The
suit was instituted July 3d, 1843.
At the trial of the case, the plaintiff offered in evidence the two
notes hereinafter inserted, with the indorsements thereon, and further offered in evidence to prove that the defendant being indebted
to a certain Philip Thornton in the sum of money hereinafter mentioned, the said Thornton brought suit against him in Baltimore
County Court, in the State of Maryland, on the'18th of July, 1839;
while the writ was in the hands of thesheriffT, and before the service
thereof on the defendant, it was agreed between Smith and the attorneyof Thornton, that Smith should be permitted on his honor',to go
into an adjoining county to see his friends, to procure security in
order t6 relieve himself from said suit. ' He went and returned ;
and on the 29th of July, 1839, in the State aforesaid, gave two
promissory notes to Thornton, dated August 10th, 1839, one for
$2,678.90, payable on the 1st of A:pril, 1840, and the other for
$2,669, payable on the lst of June, 1840 ; both of which notes
were indorsed by a certain James S. McCaleb ad'a cartain James
Kent, as securities-for the said Smith; and upon receiving these
notes, go indorsd, Thornton discontinued the suit against Smith.
These notes were not paid at maturity, and were protested for nonpayment; and in June, 1840, Thornton brought 'suit on both of
them against McCaleb, the indorset, in Baltimore County Court,
upon which he, McCaleb, was.arrested, and being in the hands -of
the sheriff, he applied to a certain Richard Lemmon,. of the city of
Baltimore, to' l ecome his hail. McCaleb was the son-in-law of
Henry A. Hall, the plaintiff, who resides in the State of MarTland,
about forty miles distant from the city of Baltimore, end Lemmobi
being an intimate friend of the said Hall, and knowing McCaleb to
be his son-in-law, agreed to become his bail, from the confidence he
had that the plaintiff would save him harmless ; and he entered bail
accordingly in both ofthese suits.
That at the first ihterview Lemmon afterwards had with the pjaintiff, the latter introduced the subject, and without waiting for any
apllication from Lemmon, assured him that he, the plaintiff; would
Pending inthese
any ritten
save
not ask
harmless
did;'and
Lemmon
'havingsecurity
entire- confidence
his
verbal i romise,
suits Swith paid partof one of T e notes, and befor.e judgment was
obtained
upon and
either
of them,
Hall paid made
the balance
last menof
thethe
attorney
With, of
an agreement
upon
tioned note,
9
VOL. V.

stiPREME COURLT.

98

Hall' v. Smith.

Thornton, a suit by Philip Thornton v. Henry Hall, the plaintiff,
was docketed by consent on the 7th of September, 1840, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, and
on the declaration was indorsed a direction to the clerk to enter judgment for the amount of the, damages in the narration, to be released
on payment of $2,669, with interest from the 1st of January,
1840, and costs, and stay of execution until the 1st of July, 1841 ;
which was signed by the, attorneys for the plaintiff and defendant. That, accordingly, at the next term of said court, in November, 1840, on the 4th clay of the month,-said judgment was entered,
and the suits against McCaleb, in which Lemmon was bail, according to an arrangement between the counsel of Thornton, McCaleb,
and Hall, were dismissed, having been countermanded on the Ist.
of September, 1840, in consequence of an agreement made between said parties, Thornton, McCaleb, and Hall, previous to said
countermand, that said suit should be docketed by consent, and
judgment confessed, as was afterwards done in the manner above
stated.
The judgment was confessed in the Circuit Court, in orderto
create a lien upon the real estate of.Hall, which being situated in a
part bf Maryland which was not within the jurisdiction of Baltimore
County Court, was supposed that a judgment in that court would
not be a lien upon it.
Upon thc confession of this judgment in the Circuit Court, the
notes above mentioned were delivered.to Hall by the attorney of
Thornton; a -part of this judgment was paid to the attorney of
Thornton, by a draft of Smith in favor of Mc~aleb, upon a house
in New Orleans, and the balance due upon-it was paid by Hall on
the 30th of June, 1841. James S. MbCaleb died in the Stato of
Mississippi, of which he was a citizen, in the summer of 1842, and
letters of administration on his estate were afterwards, on the 28th
day of November, in the year 1842, granted by the proper authority
in that State to Jonathan Mcaleb; apd on the 20th of May, 1843,
the administrator assigned to Hall, the plaintiff in this case, the
notes aforesaid.
The notes, with the several indorsements and assignments thereon, are as follows, to wit::Baltimore, lugust 10th, 1839.
$ 2,669
On.the first day of January next, I promise to pay to the ordei
of James S. McCaleb, twenty-six-hundred and sixty nine dollars,
for value received, payable and negotiable at-the Union Bank of
WM. SMITH.
Maryland.
G., N'. P. Non-payment.
4th January, 1840. -J.
No. given..-'H. &.S.
Indorsements. - 651. Win. Smith, $-2,669. January 1.
i

JAMEs S. McCALEB,
JAMES KENT.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

99

Hall v. Smith.

In consideration that the amount of the within note, with interest
thereon, was paid by Henry A. Hall, Esq., in. behalf of James S.
McCaleb, deceased, the indorser thereon, now I do hereby assign
to said Henry A. Hall, said note.
JONA.

•May 20th, 1843.

MCCALEB, Administrator of
JAMES S. MCCALEB, deceased.

$ 2,678.90.

Baltimore, dugust loth, 1839.
On the first day of April next, I promise to pay to the order of
James , McoCaleb, twenty-six hundred and seventy-eight dollars
, for, value received, payable and negotiable at the Union Bank
bf Maryland.

WM. SMITH.

.dpril 1. -Prot. non payment, 4th April, 1840.
Indorsed.-UTnion, 583. Win. Smith, $2678.90.

APii -1.

JAS. S. MCCALEB,
JAMES KENT.

Baltimore, July 13th, 1840. $ 1,500.. By cash, received of
Jas. S. McCaleb, on account, the within fifteen. iwndred dollars.
JNo. M. GoRnav, .ttorneyfor

P.
$400.
200.

THORNTON.

July 24th.-By cash, $400.
JOHN M. GORDON.
By cash, two hundred dollars. Aiugust 3d, 1840.

J. M.

GORDON.

I assign the within note to Henry A. Hall, for valde received.
JONATHAN MCCALEB, Administrator of
,May 20th, 1843.

JAMES

S. MoCALEB.

The defendant offered to give. in evidence that Smith and
McCaleb, the drawer and payee of the two notes given to Thomtonp, were citizens of the State of Mississippi at the date of the
notes, and that McCaleb contijiued to be so until his death, and
tlat Smith still continues to be so.
Upon this evidence the following questions occurred :
1. Is the plaintiff entitled to recover of the defendant the money
paid by plaintiff to Thornton, Or any part of it, as being money.
paid- for his (Smith's) use?
2. If the first question is answered in the negative, then can the
defendant, upon the issue joined in this case, offer evidence that
Smith and McCaleb were both citizens of Mississippi when. the
notes stated in the testimony were given in order to bar the plaintiff
of his action in this court as assignee of said notes ?
And the judges being opposed in opinion upon each of these
points, they are, at the request of the plaintiff, ordered to be certified
to the Supreme -Court at their next session.
Upon this certificate the case came up to this court.

100

SUPREME COURT.
Hall v. Smith.

It was argued by .fr. Dulany, for the plaintiff, and by Jlr. Giles
and Mr. Dabid Stewart, for the defendant.
,Xr. Dulany.
As to the first question presented by the record, it cannot be.
denied that the money paid by Hall to Thornton was expended for
the benefit of the defendant, Smith. It went "pro tanto" to extinguish the debt due by Smith to Thornton ; it was money, therefore, advanced for the use of Smith, and of which, in fact, he obtained the full benefit. What reason then can be alleged why an
action for money laid. out and expended for the use of Smith cannot lie to recover it again on the part of Hall? The Circuit Court
has jurisdiction over the subject-matter of such a suit, and over the
parties ; for Hall is a citizen of the State of Maryland, and Smith
of the State of Mississippi.
But it is alleged that Smith became indebted to James S.
McCaleb, on his, Smith's, failure to pay the two promissory notes,
on each of which notes said McCaleb was indorser; that Smith
and- McCaleb were citizens of the same State; that, as such,
McCaleb could not have sued Smith in the courts of the United
States; and that, by the assignment of the notes to Hall, he was
placed in the shoes of McCaleb, and couldno more appear in the
courts of the United States as'plaintiff, to enforce payment of
the notes against Smith, thanMcCaleb himself could have appeared
for that purpose.
The principle.that the Circuit Court of the United States has not
jurisdiction, on account of the character of the parties, in a contest
between citizens ofT different States, where the cause of action
arises upon a debt assigned, and originally contracted between
citizens of the same State, is fully admitted. But its application to
the present case is Oenied. It is admitted that, when the assignor
could not sue there, in an action on the debt assigned, the assignee
is in no better situation than the assignor, although he may be a,
citizen of a different State from the original debtor.
not instituted
In the case now under consideration the action is"
upon the notes assigned, but for money expended for the use of
The money expended,
Smith, and upon his implied request.
which is the cause of action, was paid on the 30th of June, 1841.
The notes were not assigned until the 20th of May, 1843. The
cause of action, tien, under the money counts of the declaration,
arose long anterior to the assignments, and subsisted wholly independent of them ; the notes, with the assignments upon them,
being introduced in evidence to show in what manner the money
paid by Hall inured to the benefit of Smith, and were therefore
collateral to the true cause of action, and designed merely as links
in the chain of evidence to support it.
The declaration shows that the suit is between citizens of differ-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

101

Hall .v.Snmith.

ent States, and clearly therefore within the general jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, unless it falls within the restrictive clause of the
eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20, which -declares, that the Circuit Court shall not "have cognizance of any
suit to recover the contents of any promissory note, or other chose
in action, in favor of an assignee- unless a suit might have been
prosecuted in said court to recover the said contents if no assignment had been made."
In Bean v. Smith and others, 2 Mason, 279, it is said, speaking
of the above clause,-" It is perfectly clear that the statute never
contemplated an exclusion of jurisdiction in cases where'a negotiable
instrument or chose in action was mixed up in the ingredients of the
case; but where that chose in action constituted the sole cause
of action, and the assignment the whole ground of the plaintiff's
right."
In the present case it is manifest that the.assigniient .ofthe notes
does not constitute the whole ground of the plaintiff's action ; but,
on the contrary, that the cause of action subsifted independent of,
and anterior to, the assignments, and at and from the moment when
the money was paid by the plaintiff to the attorney of Thornton, in
discharge pro tanto of his claim against Smith. If this be so,
then it is clear that the restrictive clause of the judiciary act, above
quoted, does not exclude the'jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over
the parties and the subject-matter of this cause.
But it may be replied, that if the money advanced by Hall is regarded as the true'eause of action, and not the assigned notes, then
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover ; because the debt of Smith,
to which the money was applied, was paid without his request or
consent, and was therefore a mere voluntary act, from which no
cause of action can arise against him.
A consideration of the evidence in this case, and the relation of
the parties, will, we think, show that this objection cannot be sustained. Smith was the drawer of 'both of the notes in favor, of
James S. McCaleb, who became the accommodation indorser, and
who redelivered them to Smith, who, frombis own accommodation,
and to relieve himself from a threatened arrest, gave them to Thornton, to whom he wai indebted, and at whose, instance the writ
against Smith lad been issued. These notes were not paid at
maturity, as the* should 'have been, by Smith; in consequence of
whose default -writs were issued out of Baltimore County Court
against James S. MkcCaleb, as indorser, under \which he was arrested by the sheriff, and whilst in the hands of that officer applied to
Mr. Lemmon to become his bail, who consented to do so, in the
confidence that he would be indemnified by the plaintiff, who was
the father-in-law of the said McCaleb. Lemmon accordingly became bail for, McCaleb, who was then released by the sheriff.
Afterwards, at the first interview:Lemmon had with the plaintiff,
9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Hall v. Smith.

he assured him that he, the plaintiff, would save him barmless for
having gone bail for his son-in-law. Pending these suits Smith had
paid*part of one of the notes ; and before judgment was obtained
upon either of'them Hall paid the balance of the other note. Suit
was then docketed against Hall in the Circuit Court by Thornton,
and judgment was confessed, to be released on payment of $ 2,669,
with the interest from the 1st of January, 1840. The payment of
the balance of the note by Hall, and the confession of the judgment aforesaid, was the fulfihnent, on the part of Hall; of his agreement with Lemmon to save him harmless for having gone bail for
McCaleb.; the suits against him in Baltimore County Court being
dismissed, upon the confession of the judgment by Hall in the
Circuit Court, as had been previously agreed between the attorney
of Thornton and Hall. At the same time that the-judgment was
confessed the notes above mentioned were delivered to Hall by the
attorney of Thornton.
The argument upon the second question is omitted.

Mr. Stewart and ,Mr.Giles made the following points :1. That the plaintiff cannot recover of the defendant the amount
of the payments so made, because, in making them, the plaintiff was
a mere volunteer. so far as the defendant was concerned.
2. That the plaintiff cannot recover upon the promissory notes
referred to, because he claims title through an assignment made- by
Jonathan McCaleb, administrator of James S. McCaleb, the payee
of the said notes, both of whom were citizens of the State of Mississippi, of which State the defendant was also a citizen.
3. That it was perfectly, competent for the defendant, after the
plaintiff had given the promissory notes in evidence under the declaration in this case, to rely under his plea, filed upon the defect of
title in the plaintiff as assignee of the said notes, to recover in the
Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice WAY)VE delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the trial of this cause in the Circuit Court, two points
were made, upon which the judges differed in opinion; and it has
been certified to this court, as is pr6ided for in the sixth section
of the act of 1802, entitled " An act to amend the judicial system
of the United States." 2 Statutes at large, 159. From the evidence, we think that all the persons in this transaction became
privies in the same contract to secure the payment of a debt due
by the defendant t6 Thornton. The payment of it, therefore, by
any one of them, other than the debtor, was a payment at his request, and an express assumpsit to reimburse the amount.
-But suppose such a'privity not existing between the parties, the
evidence shows it also to be a case of the surety of a surety paying
the debt of a principal, under a legal obligation, from which the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

103

Barry v. Mercein et al.

principal was bound to relive him. Such a payment is a sufficient
consideration to raise an implied assumpsit to repay the amount,
though the payment was made without a request'from the principal.
Tappin v. Broster, 1 C. & P. 112 ; Exall v. Partridge, 8 term
R. 310; Child v. Morley, ibid. 610..
We shall decide the first point certified to be answered in the
affirmative, which makes it unnecessary to notice the second.
Order..
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from* the Cirauit Court of the United States, for the District of
Maryland, and on 'the points and questions on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in ,opinion, and which were
certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the acts of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argue.d by counsel.
In consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this eourt'that the
plaintiff in this case is entitled to recover of the defendant the
money paid by the plaintiff to Thornton, as being money paid for
his (Smith's) use. Whereupon it is now here ordered and adiadged
by this court that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

JoHm A. BAnRy, PLAIN. 7F IN ERROR, V;
ANN BArRY.

.ARY IERCEIN AND ELIA

This court has no appellate power, in a case where the Circuit Court refused to
grant a writ of habeas corpus, prayed for by a father to take his infant child out
of the citody of it mother.'
The judgVuetats of a Circuit Court can be reviewed only where the matter iniispute
exceee
the sum or value of two thousand dollars. It must have a known and
certain value which can be proved and calculated in the ordinary mode of business transactionh.
But a controversy between a father and mother, each claiming the right to the.
custody, care,.and society of their child, relates to a matter in dispute which'is

'napable
ofbeing reduced to any pecuniary standard of value.

The w*rt of rror mustf be dimnime, for want ofjuri-iction.

Tnis case was brough.up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern 'District of New York.
The facts are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of the court, to
which the reader is referred.A motion was made by the counsel for the defendants, in error,
viz. Jir. William W. Campbell and J11r. Rockwell, to dismiss
the case fox want of. jurisdiction, which motion was opposed by X1r.
Barry, in proper person.
fr. Campbell, for the motion.
In the summer of 1844, John A. Barry, the plaintiff in error, pre-

