JANUARY

TERM, 18--7.

7

Dick et al. o. Runnels.

its sale, by the defendant, for one hundred and fifty dollars. The
decree of foreclosure, was for the sum of six hundred and twenty
dollars ninety-one cents, and the complainant avers that the lot
was a valid and sufficient security for the payment of his debt.
After setting out all the circumstances of his case, and specially
interrogating the defendant, the complainant's prayer is, that the
matter may be "referred to a master, to compute and report the
amount found due your orator by the foreclosure decree, with the
interest thereon, and also to compute and report the value of the
mortgaged lot, and its value' at the time it was sold and conveyed
by the defendant to one Samuel P. Bullard (who is admitted by
the complainant to be a bona fide purchaser of -the lot from the
defendant, without any notice of the complainant's equity), and
that the defendant may be decreed to pay, either the amount of the
said decree of foreclosure, and interest on the value of said lot of
land, or the amount received by the defendant from the sale to
Bullard, if the same were sold for its fair and full value, with all
the profits and increase since made by the use of the money, or
legal interest thereon, without any deduction of commissions for
agency."

From this prayer, the complainant's demand is susceptible of
definite computation, and as his recovery could not be extended to
an amount above his first Or alternative prayer, if the recovery in
either case must be below the sum of two thousand dollars, as it
would have to be upon his own showing, this court cannot have
appellate jurisdiction of the cause. We shall direct the dismission
of the appeal.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, and it appearing to the court here that the matter in dis-pute does not exceed the sum or value of two thousand dollars,
exclusive of costs, it is therefore now here ordered and decreed
by this court, that this appeal be and the same is hereby dismissed
for the want of jurisdiction.

N. AND

J. DicK AN CoxPANT v. HARDIN D. RuNNELS.

By the 30th section of the Judiciary Act-of 1789 (1 Statutes at Large, 88), depositions may be taken in certain cases, and notide thereof must be served on the
adverse party or his attorney, provided either of them is within one hundred
miles of the place where such deposition is taken.
A certificate of the-person before whom the deposition was taken, that neither the
adverse party nor his attorney lived within one hundred miles of uch place, and

8

SUPREME COURT.
Dick et al. ,.

Runnels.

that therefore no notice was made out, is sufficient. It is not n~cessary for him
to state that they were not actually within one hundred miles. 'If they had been
temporarily within that distance, and the certifying officer did not know it, the
certificate would still haye been good,
If either of the two facts viz. that the party resided within one hundred miles, or
that he'was temporariiy within that distande, and that the magistrate knew it,
were estahed by parol proof; the certificate would then be irregular and
void.

This case came up from the Circtilt Court of the ,United States
for the District of Mississippi, on a certificate of division in opinion
between the judges thereof,
The only question involved was the construction of a part of the
30th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Statutes at Ldrge,
88), Which part is ds follows. After providing for taking the testimony of persons "who shall liv'e at a greater distance from the place
of trial than one hundred miles," the section proceeds thus : - I Provided, that a notification froth the magistrate, before whom the deposition is to be taken, to the adverse party to be present at the taking
of the same, and to put interrogatories, if he'think fit, be first made
out and served on the adverse party, or his attorney, as either may
be nearest, if either is within one hundred miles of the place of such
caption,' allowing time for their attendance after notified, not less
than at the rate of one day, Sundays exclusive, for every twenty
miles' travel."
I On the trial of th( cause, in June, 1838, the plaintiffs' counsel
offered in. evidence a deposition, attached to which was a certificate
in these words, viz.. ""And I, the said Paul Bertus, recorder of the first municipality,
and acting mayor of the city of New Orleans aforesaid, do certify,
that the deposition of the said William Christy was taken as aforesaid, because he, the witness, l.ves at New Orleans aforesaid, a
greater distance than one hundred miles from Jackson: the place of
trial of the suit or matter of controversy aforesaid, and I caused no
notification of the time and place of the taking of said deposition to
be made out and served upon Harden D. Runnels, the adverse
party, or his counsel, to be present at the taking of said deposition,
and to put interrogatories, if he or they thought proper, because
neither the said Hardin D. Riinnels nor his counsel live within one
hundred miles of the pJace of caption to this deposition, being the
place where the same is "taken; and I do further' certify, that the
deposition was taken cown by the witness, and signed by him in
mypresence, after being duly sworn ; and I do further certify, that
I am not of eounsel or attorney to either of. the' parties aforesaid,
or interested in the event of the cause or controversy aforesaid.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and sea],
the day and year first before written.
[sEAL.]

Signed,

PAUL BERnus,

1, AIayor pro tern."
.Rerorder N7V'o.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

9

Dick et al.. v. Runnels.

And thereupon a motion was made by the defendant's counsel to
exclude the deposition, on the ground " that the commissioner- taking said deposition did not certify, that neither the said difendant
or his attorney was within one hundred miles of New Orleans, the
place of taking the deposition, at the time of' taking the same."
Upon which question the judges were opposed in opinion, which
is ordered to be certified to the Supreme Court of -the United
States, which is done accordingly.
Mfr. Bibb, counsel for the defendant, submitted the case to the

Court.
Mfr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The only point raised in this case is,.whether the certificate of
the officer who took the deposition objected to is sufficient. He
states that he did not give the defendant Runnels, nor his counsel,
notice, as neither lived within one hundred miles of the place where
the deposition was taken. This may be true, it is alleged, and yet
one or both of them might have been in New Orleans, or near to it,
.at the date of the certificate.
The law requires that a "1notice shall be made out and served
on-the adverse party or his attorney, as either may be nearest, if
either is within one hundred miles of the place of such caption," &c.
The officer'taking the deposition is presumed to know the residencq
of the party entitled to notice, as the person at whose instance the
deposition is taken is bound to communicate that fact to him. But
beyond this, he cannot be presumed to know br required to certify.
If, in the words 'of the act, be certifies " that the adverse party or
his attorney is not within one-hundred miles," he is presumed so to
state from the known fact that the residence of neither is within the
distance specified. If the party or his counsel* live within the
hundred miles, a notice left, at his residence would be good.
Where the party entitled to a notice lives 'more than one handred
miles from the place where the deposition is taken, and the officer
so certifies, it would be sufficient, although it might be proved that
such party was within the distance spetifled at the time, .if the fact
were unknown to the officer and the person in whose behalf the
deposition was taken. The certificate may be, controverted by
parol proof, especially in regard to the facts stated 'of which the
magistrate is not supposed to have official knowledge. And if it
were made to appear that the person entitled to notice did not live
one hundred miles from the place of the caption of the deposition,
or if he were known to the magistrate or the party to be temporm-rily within that distance where a notice might lie served on him,
•though his residence might be more than one hundred miles distant,.
witheat a notice, the proceeding would be irregular and the depo-.
sition inadmissible.

'10

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Lawton et at.

Uponthe whole,,we think the certificate under consideration was
suficient, and that the deposition, on the ground'stated, ought not
to be overruled.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
frm the Circuif Court 6f the United States for the Southern Distaint of.Mississippi, and on the point and question on which 'the
Judges of the .said Circuit Court, were opposed in -opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued

by.counseL

On consideration whereof; it is the -opinion of this

court that the certificate under consideration was sufficient, and
that the deposition, on the ground stated, ought not to be overruled,
Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged that it be

so certified to the, said Circuit Cout.,

'TEi tXITED SITATEs, APPELLANT,.V. Josni' LAw'oN, ExEcuvTo. oF
POLLARD, HAgNAX MAAiA
01AMEs LAWTO6N, M&RT.
Wirn -bP 3.&iMs KEIISHAw, FT A&L.

KnSRSAw,

A Spanish grant of land in Florida, for six miles square, "at the place caMlld
Dunn's lake, upon the river St. John's," is too vague -to be confrmed, even
with the aditonal knowledge- that the object, of the grantde was to establish
machinery io be propelled by water-liower.
The river t. John's meanders so much that it is near Dunn's lake for thirty
miles. The suivey might therefore commence at any point of tbis.distance with
is-much propriety as at any other point.
This concession, cannot -be distinguished finm various others which have been
brought bdfore this court. The land granted was not sevexed 'from the king's
domain. It remained a .floating grant not recognized by the gtvernment of
Spsi before the cession, nor by tlis government since, as conferring an individual title to any specific parcel of land.
Nor is the ritin this case aided by .tWo surveys, one purporting to-have been
made in December, 1817, and the. other in the spring of.1818. The first must
kave' been-fictitious, not actually made upon the ground, but merel upon paper;
and the second was too iniperfect to be be effectual.
Piuiea to the act of May 26, 1824, Congress alQne could act upon these in'cipiept titles. By that act power was given to the court to pass a decre for the
land, provided its locality, extent, and boundaries could be found. But,. in the
cannot be done.
present case, this

Tzirs was an appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida,
under the following circumstances..
ON the-10th of November, 1817, James 'Darley presented the
following petiti6n:to Governor Coppinger.
"To his Excellency the Governor:
"Don James Darrey, a Dative of Great Britain, with the respect
due to your Excellency, says, that wiih the view of settling himselff

