SUPREME COURT.

64

Walker v. Taylor et al.

quired suit to be brought against the drawers and indorsers of a bill
of exchange jointly. Under this statute the suit was brought
against the drawers and also the indorser of the bill.
This statute, as adopted by the district judge, was brought before
this cou t in the case of Keary and others v. The Farmers and Merchants' Bank of Memphis, 16 Peters, 89, in which the court held
that " the law.,of Mississippi is repugnant to the provisions of the,
act of Congress, giving jurisdiction to the courts of the United

States."
We see no objection, in principle or in practice, to the discontinuance of the suit against the drawers of the bill. Their liability
was distinct from that of the indorser: In no respect could the indorser be prejudiced by the discontinuance. As a matter of course
it was permitted at the cost of the plaintiffs.
In the case of Minor et al. v. The Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 46, the~court held, that when the defendants sever
in their pleadings, a nolle prosequi ought to be allowed against one
defendant," that " it is a practice which violates no rules of pleading, and will generally subserve the public convenience. In e administration of justice, matters of form not absolutely subjected to
authority may well yield to the substantial purposes of practice."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is ffrmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the 'Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it. is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of
six per. centum per annum.

ELIZABETH WVALKER, DEVIsEz OF ROBERT WALKER, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FRANIcis T. TAYLOR, WILLAIx ROBINSON, WILLIAM E: SABLETT, THoMAs CooK, AND JOHN M. CREsuP, TRuSTEES OF
THE TOWN, OF CoLumBus, DEFENDANTS.
Where the plaintiff below claimed a ferry right under an act of the legislature of
Kentucky, and the ground of defence was that the act was unconstitutional and
void as impairing vested rights, and the decision of the highest State court was
against the plaintiff, a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of the judiciary
act, will not lie.
This court can entertain jurisdiction under that section only when the decision of
the State court is in favor of the validity of such a statute. Here, the decision
was against its validity.

This case was brought up, by a writ of error issued under the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

65

Walker v. Taylor at al.

25th section of the'judiciar act, from the Court of Appeals for
the State of Kentucky.
The case was this.
In 1820, the legislature of Kentucky passed an act, -uitled
cc An act for establishing and laying off a town at the
Banks." 2 Morehead & Brown's Digest, 1044. It recited that the
general assembly of Virginia, in 1783, had authorized the deputation of officers of the Virgini* line to lay off four thousand acres of
land 'in such manner and form as they might judge most beneficial
for a 'town, on the Mississippi or the waters thereof, tnd vest the
same in trustees for the common benefit and interest, of the whole ;
that trustees were appointed, who located the four thousand acres of
land upon the Mississippi, including the Iron Banks, and that said
trustees, or a majority of them, had died before executing the trust
reposed in them.
The statute then appointed trustees, who were to cauge a survey
to be executed for the four thousand acres of land and have the
same duly recorded in the office of the surveyor of the lands set
apart for the military bounty on State establishment, but declared
that the trustees should not (unless thereafter authorised by law)
sell or dispose of the same or any part thereof in any manner whatever, but hold the same subject to the control and future disposition
by thd legislature. It then proceeded to authorize them to lay off
a town, divide it into lots, cause a surverto be made, adopt rules
for the government of the town, .and then authorized them to sell at
public sale any number of lots, not exceeding one hundred lots, of
haif an acre each. All the mbney arising from such sale was to
be paid into the public treasury of the State.
In 1821, an act was passed to amend and repeal, in part, the
above act (2 Morehead & Brown, 1046). This authorized the
trustees to appqiht a treasurer, who should ppy all the money received into the treasury of the State, to be then divided amongst
the officers and soldiers of.-the Virginia lines; to sell fifty more
lots ; to sue trespassers, &c., &c.
Under these acts, the trustees laid oft the town of Columbus into
lots, streets, alleys, and public grounds, and made and recorded a
plan therefor, by whiah they left an open space of ten poles; as a
common, along the margin of the river, between low water-mark
and the lots next to the river, and dedicated this common to public
use,
In 1825, an act waspassed (acts of 1825, chap. 72), the first
section of which authoized the trustees to sell the whole -of the in
and out lots, provided they should all concur ; and the second section authorized the trustees, or a majority of them, to " fix the
rates of ferriage across the Mississippi river, and lease out ferribs
for any term of years, not exceeding five, and apply the rents to the
improvement of the town."

66

SUPR]F1k

COURT.

Walker v. Taylor et al.

In 1829 (adts of that year, page 31), it'was provided,'by an act
passed in that year, -"
That. a public ferry be and the same is
hereby established at the warehouse landing of Owen G. Cates and
Robert Walker, fronting their lot, No. 3, in the town of Columbus, across the Mississippi river to the opposite shore, and that said
ferry be in the name, and for the benefit, of said Cates and Walker,
-their heirs and assigns, foreytr: 'provided, however, that said
Cates and Walkei enter into bo'd, in the Cointy Court of Hickman, in the penalty of $1,000, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties, required of, other ferry*keepers -by law' in this
commonwealth."

At the session of 1830 (acts of 1830; chap. 533, page 148), an
act was passed restoring the ferry privileges to the iown of Colunbus. The firstsiction was as follows "IThat so much of I An act to establish a warehouse at the mouth
of-Jonathan's creek, in Calloway county, and for other -purposes,'
as establish&5 a public, ferry at the warehouse landing of Owven G..
.-Cates' and Robert Walker, fronting their lot, No. 3, in the town
of Columbus, across ..the Mississippi river, to the 6pposite shore,
in the name of the said, Cates adid Walker, their heirs and assigns,
foraver, be .and the same is hereby repealed ; it being satisfactorily
proved that lot No..3,'in the town of Coluinbus, does- not bind
on the Mississippi river ; 'that the margin of said ri'er, opposite the
town of Columbus, in laying off .the same, was reserved as a public
landing,.and belongs to the trustees thereof, for the use pf the inhabitants ; that, under the-laws of this State, the trustees bf Coluui-bus were .vested with ferry privileges from tfhe said' public groudd,
on the margip of the.river5 across the Mississippi river, fQr the use
of the inhabitants ; that said Cates was 'the lessee of a ferry from
the trustees- of Columbus, and the said.Walker his surety, at the
time of granting the ferry hereby repealed.; and .that no notice of
the application o the legislature was given to the said trustees, nor
a representition, that a ferry was already established there, made in
their petition to the legislature."
The seccnd section repealed the grant to Cates and' Walker, and
the -hird section regranted and confirmed to the trustees, aiid their
successors, all the ferry rights and privileges -from the public
ground, and vested them with power $o lease one or more ferries
from said public ground, from time to time, not exceeding five years.
at any one time.
C'ates and Walker had complied with'the, requisitions_ of'the act
of 1829, and put their ferry into operation.. Cates sold his interest
to Walker, and he, dying, devised it to his wife., who continued in
the exercise of it until interrupted by the tfuste6s, who . claimed.the
exclusive privilege offerriage.In September, 1842 Elizabeth-Walker, the, plalitiff'in error,
brought an action of trespass oh the case against the -trustees, in the

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

67

Walker v. Taylor et al.-

Hickman Circuit Court. The defendants filed five pleas, but t'is
only necessary to notice the first. That ple set forth all the aforesaid acts of assembly prior to the act of 1829; averred that the
legal title to the land on which the town was situated had been
vested for that purpose in trustees, as is above stated ; that, upon
the sale of the lots, there was a .reservation made.6f all ferry rights
to the trustees of the town, for its use ; that they had been, constantly in the exercise of those rights ;-that between lot No. 3
and the river there intervened a street, ten poles in width, and between that and the river a "1 common." From these facts, it deduced and alleged the exclusive ferry right of the defendants, coextensive with the limits of the town on the river, as incident to
their- alleged legal title to the common, as secured to them by said
reservation on the sale of lots, and as granted to them by said prior
acts'of assembly.
And ittherefore further alleged, that the att of 1829, granting a
ferry to Cates and Walker, "was unconstitutionhl and void, being
an attempt to impair and divest prior vested rights,"' &c. ; and, so
justified the defendants for the disturbance and-trespass complained of.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred*; and, upon argument, the demurrer -was ovenuled. The plaintiff, not filing any replidation to
this plea, judgment was entered for the defendants, for the want of
a replication.
Mrs. Walker appealed to the Court of Appeals; where the judgment of the court below -was affirmed, and a writ of. error. brought
the case up to this court.
The cause was argued at the present term 'by .Mr.C.rittenden,
for the plaintiff ihi
error, and Mr. Cates, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us by a writ of error to the Court of
Appeals of the State of Kentucky.
It has been argued.by counsel, on the merits, without noticing the
important preliminary question' 'of jurisdiction.
Th6 power intrusted to this court, 'of reviewing the decisions of
State tribunals, is within narrow and well defined limits, and has
been, in some instances, looked upon with jealousy. Our decisions
may fail to c6mmand respec, unless-we carefully confine ourselves
within the,bounds prespribed for us by ,the constitution and laws.
If they hav6-not conferred jurisdiction, the c6nsent of parties will
not justify it6 assumption. 'The record in this -case shows, that- the
plaintiff declaied, in an action on the case, for a disturbance of her
right of ferry ; asserting%an exclusive right, in herself, by virtue -of
an act of"the legislature of Kentucky, of the' 31s of December,
1829. Thie defendants' first plea (the only one sustained by the

68

SUPREME COURT.
Walker v.

Taylor et al.

court), after averring a previous grant to themselves, by an act of
the 27th of December, 1820, and other facts, unnecessary to notice,
concludes as follows : - "And so the defendants say that the said
act, dated the 31st of December, 1829, purporting to establish a
public ferry at the warehouse landing of Owen G. Cates and
Robert Walker, fronting their lot No. 3, in the town of Columbus,
over the Mississippi river to the opposite shore, is unconstitutional
and void, being an attempt to impair prior vested rights, without
compensation therefor.; all of which defendants are ready -to
verify," &c.
* To this plea the plaintiff demurred ; the defendants joined in
demurrer, and the Circuit Court of Kentucky gave judgment for
defendants. The plaintiff then appealed to the Court of Appeals
of that State, who affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The record, therefore, presentea this single issue, - "Whether
the act of.the legislature of Kentucky, of the 21st of December,
1829, under which the plaintiff claimed title, was unconstitutional and
void,"- as being repugnant to the constitution of the United States,
and the decision of the Court of Appeals, is against its validity.
The twenty-fifth section* of the act of the 24th of September,
17S9, which confers on this court the power of supervision over the
State tribunals, so far as at present applicable, confines it to cases
" where -is draon in question the .validity of a 9tatute of, or an
authority exercised under, any State on the ground of their being
repugnant to the constitution or laws of the United States, and the
decision is in favor of such their validity.". That this case does not
come within the category, is too plain to admit of argument 'or require authority. The reason and policy of granting to this court
the power to revise the decisions of the State courts when in favor
-of the validity of their own statutes, and refusing it to us when the
judgment is against theirvalidity, are obvious, and are fully stated by
the court in the case of The Commonwealth Bank of Ientucky v.
Thomas Griffith et al., 14 Peters, 56. ' That case is precisely in
point with the present, and decides that, - " Under this clause of
the act of Congress, three things must concur to give thi§ court
jurisdiction.
1st. The validity of a statute of a State must be
drawn in question. 2d. It must be drawn in question upon the
ground that it is repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States. 3d. The decision of the State court must be in
favor of their validity."
As the judgmqent of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky was -endered against the validity of the statute in this case, it must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Court -of Appeals for the State of Kentucky, and was

JANUAkRY .TERM, 1847.

69

Hildeburn v.'Turner.

argued by counsel.

On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by- this court that this writ of error be and the
same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

SADIUEL HILDEBURN, PLAINTIFF, V. HENRY TURNER, DEFENDANT.
When a bill of exchange is made payable at a bank, and the bank itself is the
holder of the bill, it is a sufficient demand if the notary presents it at the bank
and demands payment.
If, therefore, the protest states this and also that the -notary was answered that it
could not be paid, it is sufficient, It is not necessary for'him to give the name
of the person or officer of the'bdnk to whom it was -presented, and by whom he
was answered.

THis case came up on a certificate of division in opinion from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
The point of difference is fully set forth in the -opinion of the
court.
It was argued by .ir. Brent, for the plaintiff, and .Xr. Bibb, for
the defendant.
Mr. Brent, for plaintiff.
The single question is on the admissibility of the notarial protest;
and, if admissible for any yurpose, .it is competent evidence. The
bill of exchange is drawn in Yfisissippi, payable in Louisiana ; and,
in such case, the protest is evidence by the law-merchant. 2 Peters,
593; 2 Peters, 691; Waldron v. Turpin, 15 Louisiana Rep.'555
5 Martin's (N. S.) Rep. 513. On this head, I also refer to the
statute of Louisiana, 1827 (Bullard and Cuny's Digest, 13, 43),
and to 14 Louisiaria Rep. 394 ; Franklin v. Verbois, 0 Louisiana
Rep. 730. The demand is lresumed to be made in business hours.
Fleming v. Fulton, 6 Howard's-Miss. Rep. 484. I also refer to
the decision of this court in Musson v. Lake, 4 How. S. C. R.
262, and to Brandon & Lofftus v. Whitehead, 4 How. S. C. R.
127 ; also to Bank of the United States t. Carmdal, 2 Peters, 549.
Sfr. Bibb,, for defendant.
The o1jection' taken to the eafding of the protest oftered in evdence was, that the protest did not contain a sufficient statepient of.
the presentment of the bill for payment.
The bill was drawn by A. G. Bennett, at Canton, Mississippi, on
H. F. Bennett, at same. place, in favor of Henry Turner, in New
Orleans, for $995.04, payable at the Merchants' Bank of New

