134

SUPREME COURT.
Rowan et al. v. Runnels.

proceedings at law ; that the bill and amended bill of the complainants were not exceptionable for multifariousness ; that the
decree of the Circuit Court dismissing those bills for either of the
causes assiijed for the demurrer is erroneous. The decree is
therefore reversed, and this cause is remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to be there proceeded in, conformably with the principles here established.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counjel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court that the decree of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the. same is hereby reversed, with costs' and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to proceed
therein conformably to the opinion of this court.

XOHN A. RowAN AND JOHN L. EMIs, COPATNERS IN TRADE UNDER
THE NAIE AND STYLE OF RowAN AND HARRIS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. HIRAMi G, RUNNELS, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
SADIEv. SAME.
In the case of Groves v. Slaughter (15 Peters, 449) this court decided that the constitution of Mississippi did not, of itself, and without any legislative enaciment,
prohibit the introductioh of slaves as merchandise and for sale.
This constitution went into operation on the 1st of M'Jay, 1833, and on the 13th of
May, 1837, a law was passed to provide for the case.
This court adheres to the construction of the constitution which was given in the
case of Groves v. Slaughter, and enforces contracts made between the two days
above mentioned, although the courts of the State of Mississippi have, since the
decision in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, declared such contracts to be void.

THESE cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Rowan and Harris were citizens of Virginia, and Runnels was a
citizen of Mississippi.'
Both cases depended upon the same principle, and differed only
in this, that, in one, Runnels executed to Rowan & Harris his own
note, and, in the other, indorsed over to them a promissory note
executed by George W. Adams. Both notes were due on the
1st of March, 1840, one being fbr $ 2,950.70, and the other for
$8,671.33.
At maturity the notes were protestd for notipayment, and suits brought upon them.
At the -trial, the defendant offered in evidence a transcript of the
record of a suit pending in the Supreine Court of Chancery of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

135

Rowan et al. v. Runnels.

State of Mississippi, wherein Rowan & Harris were complainants,
and George W. Adams and others, defendants, one object of which
was to show that the consideration for the notes was a sale of slaves
by Rowan & Harris to Runnels. Whereupon. the defendant
moved the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed, from the
evidence, that the, original consideration of the note sued on was the
sale by plaintiffs to defendant of slaves' introduced into the State of
Mississippi for sale and as merchandise by plaintiffs, since the 1st
day of May, 1833, that then said note was void, and they should
find for the defendant. Which instruction the court gave to the
jury as moved for by the defendant. To the giving of which instruction the plaintiffs excepted, and upon this exception the case
came up to this court.
.Mr. JVelson, for the plaintiffs in error, contended that the case,
was entirely covered by the decision of this court in 15 Peters, 449.
.litr. Bibb, for appellees.
These cases grew out of that provision of the constitution of the
State of Mississippi which is in these words : - " The introduction of slaves into this State as merchandise, or for sale, shall be
prohibited from and after the first day of May, one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-three."
The decision of this ourt, at the January term, 1841, upon the
construction of that clause of the constitution of the State of Mississippi, in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 449, was,
that the constitution of the State of Mississippi referred the subject
o the prohibition to the legislature as a duty -to be performed by
that body, and that there was no prohibitior until -the legislature
should act.
That decision is a precedent, not binding upon the appellees in
these two cases, because they were not parties to that case, neither
are they privies. They have a right- to avail themselves of the
benefit of all the additional lights and after circumstances.
The principle is well settled ana firmly established by the decisions of this court, again and again repeated and exemplified, that
th'e construction which the courts of the several States have given
to their own constitutions and statutes, respectively, ought to control the decisions of this court upon questions of right growing out
of State constitutions and State statutes, unless they come in conflict with the constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States.
The decision in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 449,
alludes to this principle ; but, in the opinion of the court; it is
said : - " The case chiefly relied upon is that of Glidewell and
others v. Hite and Fitzpatrick, a newspaper report of which has
been furnished to the court. It was a bill in equity filed some time
in the year 1839, since .the commencement of the suit faow before

136

SUPREME COURT.
Rowan et al. v. Runnels.

this court, and the decree of the chancellor affirmed in the Court of
Appeals by the divided court, since the judgment was obtained in
this cause. But if we look into that case, and the points there discussed, and the diversity of opinion entertained by the judges, we
cannot consider it as settling the construction of the constitution,"
As the -case of Groves v. Slaughter itself \was decided by a
C divided court," as there was a " diversity of opinion entertained
by the judges," as it was a case of first impression, deciding upon
the construction of a clause in the constitution of the State of Mississippi, which the decisions of the courts of that State had not then
settled, as the court then said ; and as Mr. Justice Barbour died
before the decision, and Mr. Justice Catron did not sit in the case
from indisposition, and as Justices Story and McKinley dissented
from the opinion delivered, it is submitted, with great deference,
that the opinion in Groves v. Slaughter is open to argument upon
these two points :1st. The imperative obligation upon this court to adopt the construction given by the courts of Mississippi to their constitution,
when settled.
2dly. That decisions of the courts of the State of Ml'ississippi
have now settled the construction*contrary to the decision in Groves
v. Slaughter.
1. The imperative obligation upon this court to adopt the con-'
struction given by the courts of the State of Mississippi to their
constitution, when settled by such decisions.
Out of a very great number of precepts and examples given by
this court upon that subject, a single decision will suffice.
In the case of Elmendorff v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 159, the opinion of the court, delivered by Chief Justice Marshall, declares :" This court has uniformly professed its disposit'on, in cases dependirig on the laws of a particular State, to adopt the construction
which the courts of the State havd given to those laws. This
course is founded on the principle, supposed to be universally recognized, that the judicial department of every government, where
such department exists, is the appropriate organ for construing
the legislative acts of that government. Thus, no court in the universe, which professed to be governed by principle, would, we presume, undertake to say, that the courts of Great Britain, or of
France, or of any other nation, had misunderstood their own statutes ; and therefore erect itself into a tribunal which should correct
such misunderstanding.' We receive the construction given by the
courts of the nation as the true sense of the law, and feel ourselves
no more at liberty to depart from that construction, than to depart
from the words of the statute. On this principle the construction
given by this court to the constitution and laws of the United
States is received by all as the true construction ; and, on the same
principle, the constructiorr given by the courts of thp several States

JANUARY
Rowan

TERM, 1847.

et al.

137

v. Runnels.

to the legislative acts of those States is received as true, unless they
come in conflict with tie constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. If, then, this question has been settled in Kentucky,
we must suppose it to be rightly settled."
This case is the more impressive, because this court adopted-the
construction given by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky to a statute
enacted by the State of Virginia, and conformed to the three last
decisions of that court, which conflicted with nine former decisions of the court by the former judges, whihh former decisions were
in a degree fortified by the opinion of this court in the case of
Wilson v. Mason, 1 Cranch, 100 (that the particular descriptions
in a certificate of survey, before a copy could be demanded
as of right, and when it could only be inspected by the courtesy
of the surveyor, could not be used by a locator to help out his entry and communicate the necessary notoriety). This court did,
notwithstanding, in the case of Elmendorff v. Taylor, say, - " We
must consider the construction as settled finally by the courts of the
State ; and this court ought to adopt the same rule, should we even
doubt its correctness."
10 Wheat. 165.
The reasoning just quoted is so cleadly demonstrative and convincing that the citations of the other decisions of this court would
be superfluous.
2. The decisions of the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi have now settled the construction of the constitution of that
State relating to the point involved in these cases.
The cases decided by the court of Mississippi, as reported in
5 Howard's Mississippi Rep. 100, 110, 769, and 7 ibid. 15, are
referred to as having settled the construction of the clause of their
constitution now under consideration.
The courts of Louisiana have, in questions growing out of the
prohibition in the constitution of Mississippi before quoted, conformed to the decisions of the court of Mississippi, of which an example is to be found in 6 Robinson's La. Rep. 115. And the
courts of Tennessee have in like manner conformed; but as the
book of reports, containing the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, has been taken out of the library of the court, I am not
able to cite the particular case, nor do I deem it material ; the decisions of the court of Mississippi being the proper standard to which
all other courts should conform upon such a question.
It would be highly inconvenient that one construction of the organic law of the State of Mississippi should prevail in the courts
of that State and of the adjoining States, and that another and different construction .of the same instrument should prevail in the federal courts,
The decision in Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 4.49, was by "1a
div ided court "; two justices were absent, in a case of the first impression, and when the construction fixed by-the judiciary depart.12 *

138

SUPREME COURT.
Rowan et al.

vt Runnels.

ment of tjie government of Mississippi had not settled the proper
construction.
Now that- it is settled by the courts of that State, this court is
bound to adopt it as the proper and true construction.
According. to the principles decided by this court between Elmendorff v.Taylor, 10 Wheat.' 165, and various others too tedious to
mention, -this court is 4o ,more at liberiy 'to depart from the construction of the State constitution, so settled by the-judicial department of the State of Mississippi, than the courts of that State would
be to depart from the construction of the constitution, statutes, and
treaties of the United States, as settled by this Supreme Court
of the United States.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This 'action was brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Mississippi, by the plaintiffs, upon a promissory note
made to thema by the defehdant for $2,950.70, dated March 27th,
18395 and payable on the 1st of. March, 1840.
The defendant offered in evidence that the only consideration of
this note was certain' slayvs sold by the plaintiff to him. in Mississippi in the year 1836, this note being given to take up former spcurities' which had not been paid ; and that the said slaves.were
introduced and imported into the State- iii the year last above mentioned, by the plaintiffs, as merchandise and for sale.
Upon this evidence, the court instructed the jury that if the slaves
were so introduced afte,-zthe.1st of May, 1833, the note was void,
and their verdict must be for the defendaht. The plaintiffs excepted to this instruction, and the verdict and judgnent being against
them, they have brought the case here by wrif of error.
The Circuit Court held this contract to be illegal and void, under
the following section of the 'constitution of Mississippi, adopted in
1832.
" he introduction of slaves into this State, as merchandise or
for sale, shall be prohibited from and after the 1st day of iiay,
1833 ; provided the actual settler or settlers shall not be prohib"itqd from purchasing slaves in any State in this Union, and bringing
them into this State for their own individual use, till the year 1845."
The question presented in this case is precisely the sarbe with
that decided by this .court in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, re-ported in 15 Peteis, 449. And the court then held, after hearing
a very full and elaborate argument, that the clause in the bonstitution
of Mississippi, relied on by the defendant, which went into operation
on the 1st of May, 1833, did not-of itself pr6hibit the introduction
of slaves as merchandise and for sale ; and that contracts for -the
purchase and sale of slaves so introduced, made before the passage
of the law of that State of May 13th, 1837, were valid and binding upon the parties. The reasoning, upon which that opinion was

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

189

Rowan et al. v. Runnels.

founded, is fully set forth in the report of the case, and need not be
repeated here.
It now appears, however, that the question has since been brought
before the courts of the State, and it has been there settled by its
highest tribunals that the clause inthe constitution above referred
to did, of itself and without any legislative enactment, prohibit the
introduction of slaves as merchandise and for sale ; and rendered all
contracts for the sale of such slaves, made after May 1st, 1833, Megal and void. And it is argued that inasmuch as this court adopts
the construction given by the State courts to their own constitution
and laws, we ought to follow the decisions in M ississippi, and declare the contract before us to be void, notwithstanding the case of
Groves v." Slaughter.
But we are not aware of any decision in this court which presses
the rule so far, or that would justify this court in declaring contracts
to be void upon this, ground which upon the fullest consideration
it has so recently held to be good. It will be seen, by a reference
to the opinion delivered in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, that the
court were satisfied not only that the construction it then placed on
the constitution of Mississippi was the true one but that it conformed to the construction upon whichlthe legislature of the State
had acted, and that the validity of these sales had not been brought
into question in any of the tribunals'of the State until long after- the
time when this contract was made ; and that as late as the beginning
of the year 1841, when Groves v. Slaughter was decided, it did not
appear, from any thing before the court, that the construction of the
clause in question had ben settled either way, by judicial decision,
in the courts of the State.
Acting under the opinion thus deliberately given by this coui ,
we can hardly be required, by any comity or respect for the State
courts, to surrender our judgment to decisions since made in the
State, and declare contracts to be void which upon full consideration we-have pronounced to be valid. Undoubtedly this court will
always feel itself bound to respect the decisions of the State couits,
and from the time they are made will regard them as conclusive in
all cases upon the construction of their own constitution and laws.
But we ought not to give to them °a retroactive effect, and allow
them to render invalid contracts entered into with citizens of other
States, which in the judgment of this court were lawfully made.
For, if such a rule were adopted, and the comity due to State decisions pushed to this extent, it is evident that the provision in the
constitution of the United Statesj which secures to the citizens of
another State the right to sue in the courts of the United States,
might become utterly useless and nugatory.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the ddcision in the case of
Groves v. Slaughter must rule this case, and consequently that the
judgment of tbeCircuif Court must be reversed.

140

SUPREME COURT.
'Ro.wan et al. r. Runnels.

The same judgmerit must also - be given in the .other dase before us between the same parties, as it depends on te same
principles.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented
From the decision of the court pronounced in these causes, I feel
myself constrained to dissent. The rule heretofore announced and
uniformly observed by this court, with respect to the construction to
be given to the constitutions and statutes of the several States, has
been this :- that the interpretations put upon those constitutions
and statutes by the supreme tribunals of the States respectively,
should be received and followed as .the true interpretation. This
rule, so reasonable in itself, so inseparable from every idea of the
competency, or indeed the very being of the systems of which those
constitutions and statutes make an essential part, is not even now
denied ; but-Whilst it is, in general terms, assented to in the decision
of these causes, it is in effect, if not in terms, by thq same decision
utterly overthrown. In the case of Groves et al. v. Slaughter, 15
Peters, 449, this court, as. it was constrained to do in the absence
of any interpretation by the State courts, gave its own construction
to the constitution of Mississippi. Since the decision in Groves v.
Slaughter, decisions of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, giving an
interpretation to the constitution of that State, have become generally known,
they are familiar, unequivocal, uniform, numerous.
hat any or all of these expositions may have been made posterior
to the decision of-the cause of Groves v. Slaughter, I hold to be
perfectl immaterial, so far as this circumstance can affect their
force and validity. If these expositions establish the meaning of
the constitution. of Mississippi, such meaning. must have relation to
the period of the consummation of that instrument. The constitution has always been the same thing from the time of its, adoption.
It could not have been some other thing than the constitution, because it bad-not been interpreted to this court,.and subsequently
have become the constitution merely because its interpretation was
then generally declared. The decision of the causes now before
this court gives, to the constitution of Mississippi different meanings
.at different periods of its existence, and deduces those meanings
from circumstances wholly uinconnected with the intrinsic signification of the terms of the instrument itself. Such a rule of interpretation in-iolves, in my view, a contradidtion which I am wholly
tumw"lling to adopt.
-

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
frofi the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, aid was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

141

Truly v. Wanzer et al.

of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby
reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the same is-hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de nrvo.

BENNET

R.

TRULY, COMPILAINANT AND APPELLANT, V, MOSES WAXZER, JABEZ HARRISON, AND 'OHN R. NICHOLSON.

The preceding case of Rowan and Harris v. Runnels reviewed and confirmed.
Thb general principle with regard to injunctions after a judgment at law is this,that'any fact which proves it to be against couscience to execute such judgment,
and of whiclr-the party could not have availed himself in a court of law, or of
which he might have availed himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or accident, unmixed with any fault or negligence
in himself or his agents, will authorize a court of equity to interfere 1 y injuiction to restrain the adverse party
from availing himself of such judgment.
Hence, where a party-had remained for ten years in the undisturbed enjoyment of
the property which he purchased, it was no ground for an injunction to stay proceedings for the recovery of the purchase mopey, to say that the original purchase was void by the laws of the State, but that he bad neglected to urge thatdefence at law, or to say that he had heard that some persons unknown might
possibly-at some future time assert a title to the property.
Such an injunction, if.granted, must be dissolved.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Missi~sippi.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of
the -court.
The case was argued by M7Ir. Crittenden, for the appellant, and
X1Ir. Coxe, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not easy to apprehend or appreciate the grounds upon which
the complainant in this case has invoked the aid of a court of chancery.
He purchased some negroes from one Herbert,-in 1836, to whom
he gave two notes in payment. On one of these, suit was brought
and a judgment obtained, which has bee i paid and satisfied. The
other remains unpaid, but the complainattt has been summoned as
garnishee of Herbert in a suit by Wanier and Harrison, in which
a judgment has also been obtained, and an execution issued; and
he now asks the interposition of a court of equity, not only to protect
him from the judgment and execution, but also to restore to him that
portion of the consideration which has been recovered by due
course of law.
The reasons alleged for this request are, firbt, because the
negroes purchased by him were brought into the State of Mississippi for sale contrary to the provisions of the constitution of the
State; and therefore the contract was illegal and Void. And,

