JANUARY TERM, 1847.

83

The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swann.

THE

ALEXANDRIA CANAL COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FRANCIS
SWANN, DEFENDANT.

Where a case is removed from Alexandria county to Washington county, in the
District of Columbia, whatever defences might have been made in Alexandria
county, either as to the form of the action or upon any other ground,.or whatever would have'been a bar to the action, may all be relied upon in the new
forum.
But the mode of proceeding, by which the rights of the parties are determined,
must be regulated by the law of the court to which the suit is transferred.
A reference to arbitrators, therefore, which is sanctioned by tle laws of Maryland,
governing Washington county, is not to be overthrown because it is not sanctioned by the laws of Virginia, governing Alexandria county.
The validity of the reference, and of the proceedings and judgment upon it, must
be tested by the laws of Maryland.
Although the charter of a company does not, in terms, give the power-to refer, yet
a power to sue andbe sued includes a power of reference, that being one ofithe
modes of prosecuting a suit to judgment.
So, also, a power to agree with a proprietor for the purchase or use of land includes
a power to agree to pay a specified sum or such sum as arbitrators may fix upon.
It is immaterial -whether the power of reference is lodged in the- president and
directors or in the stockholders assembled in general meeting; for the entire
corporation is represented in court by its counsel, whose acts, in conducting the
suit, are presumed to be authorized by the party.
Where the order of reference provides for the appointment of an, umpire, it is no
error if he is appointed before the referees had heard the evidence.and discovered
that they could not agree.
Where the agreement for reference contained a clause, providing that upon payment of damages to the owner of the land he should convey it to the otherparty,
it was proper for the umpire to omit all-notice of this. It was not put in issue by
the pleadings, nor referred to the arbitrators.

Tfis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, in and
for the county of Washington. It originated in the county of Alexandria, and was removed to the county of Washington under an'

dct of Congress providing for such removals.
The circumstances of the case are so fully set forth in the opinion of the court, that it is unneCessary to do more than refer to it
for a statement of the facts.
The cause was argued at December term, 1845, by Air. Bledsoe and Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and by .M1r. 'Villiam
T. Szwann and .Mr. Jones, for the defendant in error. At the present term the court gave its opinion.
Air. Bledsoe,- for the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That there was no legal or valid reference.
2. That there was no legal or valid*award.
3. That there was no legal or valid judgment.
1. The president and' directors had no power under their charter to submit a case to arbitration. The rule is well settled that they.
have no power except -inder the charter. 5 Connect. Rep. 568 ;
2 Cranph, 158 ; Angell & Ames on Corp. 200, 201, 22D, 242 ;

84

SUPREME COURT.
The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swann.

7 Cranch, 299 ; 14 Johns. 118 ; 12Johns. 241 ; 15 Wend. 256;
7 Cowen, 462 ;,1 Cowen, 513 ; 12 Wheat. 58.

The charter (Daviz's Laws, 558) says, that where land is to be
taken, the cdmpany may agree as to the price. But if no agreement can be made, they are to apply to justices of the peace,
.who are to call a jury. But in that case the whole twelve must
agree.
The thirteenth section of the act thus pointing out the mode of
condemning land, none other was justifiable. The seventeenth section gives the company the right to enter upon land, and therefore
they cannot be guilty of a trespass.
One partner cannot bind another by agreeing to arbitrate. Watson
on Part. 445; 3 Bing. 101 ; 11 Com. Law. Rep. 52; Story
on Part. 169 ; 1 Peters, 222, 228.
The attorney here has undertaken to make the president and
directors do things which are not justified by law.
In England, where property is taken for public use, the party has
no remedy ; and in this case the remedy given by the charter is
exclusive. 11 Iass. 364, 365, 368'; 20 Johns. 735 ; 4 Wend.
347, 367, 370; 4 New Hamp. Rep. 547; 2 Johns. 283; 7
Johns. Ch. Rep. 315 ; 1 New Hamp. Rep. 339.
IMr. Bledsoe then examined the terms and mode of arbitration.
Ml~r. William T. Swann, for the defendant in error, made the
following ponits I. It will be unnecessary to consider any part of the record prior
to the submission of the.case to arbitration ; as the submission in
such a case, under a rule of the court, operates as a waiver of all
exceptions (if any could be conceived), or as a release of all errorsanterior to the rule.
2. No exceptions having been taken in the court below to the
award, the grounds of the appeal are unkiiown ; nor can any, by
the counsel in this case, be conceived. "But if any objections
could be presented, it is now too late ; they should nave been presented either by motion or exception in the court below.
3. In this case the award is supported by a recital of various
matters of procedure under the arbitration in the award itself, by
the certificate of two of the arbitrators, and by affidavits proving
such matters of procedure in the case, This is a support far beyond what the law requires. A simle award of a sum of money
under the submission, without any recital of such facts in the award,
and without any proof of them, is suffieient; any omission or irregularity in regard to such extrinsic matters being brought forward
by motion in the court below to set aside the award.
JJ'fr. Swann.then examined the record, and contended that the
arbitration was according to law. The other matters of defence,
he said, cannot be alleged here. There is no special plea in

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

85

The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swann.

Washington county, and we do not admit the facts upon which the
argument rests. The charter does not give the remedy spoken of
to the party aggrieved, because he cannot originate the process of
summoning a jury, &c. 4 Gill & Johns. 147; 4 Wend. 667,
672.
If the company have power to enter land without condemnation,
it ought to have been specially pleaded.
A submission of a cause to arbitration disembarrases it of legal
questions. I Washington Rep. 320 ; 10 Mass. Rep. 215 ; 8
Serg. &- Rawle, 3; 4 Hen. & Mun. 216 ; 5 Binney, 177.
The statute of Maryland, passed in 1778, ch. 21, §§ 8, 9, points
out the mode of proceeding by arbitration. It is a common law
process, too. The power to refer is a necessary' incident to the
power to be sued. If the company are sued they can defend
themselves in any manner known to the laws. The submission in
this case was by the company itself, and not. by the president and
directors only. The attorney in court represented the whole
company.
01Ir. Jones, on the same side.
If they object to the award they should have moved, in the court
below, to set it aside. Otherwise it is presumed to be right. It is
too late to urge the objections in an appellate court, because, as
the court below never passed a judgment upon the point, it would
make this a court of original jurisdiction. 2 Sehoale and Lefroy,
712. When the cause was removed, it was to be tried by lexfori,
of which arbitration is a part. It' is denied that the president and
directors had any power to submit the case. But how does it
appear that the president and directors did it, and not *the company ? A corporation can only appear by its corporate name.
This suit was so brought and they appeared to it. So the power.
of the attorney is denied. But will the court presume that he acted
without authority ? A corporation is liable for a tort. 16 East, -5
Angell & Ames on Corp. 328, 329 ; 8 Peters, 117.
Xtr. Coze, for plaintiff in error, in reply and, conclusion, examined the history of the law of arbitration, and the statutes of
Virginia' and Maryland ; and then contended that an action of
trespass quare clausum fregit would not lie against a corporation.
He then examined the authorities cited by J11r, Jones. If the corporation kept within their charter they were not suable, of course.
If they went beyond it, and appointed agents to do things not justified by law, the agents are responsible. ' A suit only lies against the
employer when the agent is acting within the scope of his'authority.
This suit was brought in Alexandria, where the corporation appeared by attorney and filed pleas. When it was removed to
Washington an amended declaration was filed, but it was liot a
8
VOL. V.

86

SUPREME COURT.
The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swann.

substitute for the old one, because the old one remained in court,
and so did the former pleas.
Xr. Coxe then contended that the reference was improper and
illegal, and cited Kyd on Corp. 45, and commented on the charter
of the company.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by-writ of error from the Circuit Court
for Washington county, in the District of Columbia. The suit was
originally brought in Alexandria county by the -defendant in error,
against the plaintiff.; and upon the motion of the former was removed to Washington county under "the provisions of the act of
June 24, 1812, § 3. The points raised in the argument make it
proper to state the pleadings more fully than is usually necessary.
It was an action of trespass for breaking and entering the plaintiff's
close, situate in the county 6f Alexandria. The suit was brought
in July, 1839. The declaration contained but one count, in the
usual form, stating the trespass to have been committed on divers
days and times between the 1st of January, i835, and the commencement of the suit.
The defendant pleaded, -first, not guilty ; second, the statute
of limitations ; and third; that the canal company entered under
the authority of the Act of Congress, for the purpose of making the
canal ; and that 't is ready to satisfy any damages to which the
plaintiff is entitled, when they shall be ascertained in the mode
pointed out in the act of incorporation.
After these pleas were put in, .nd before any replication was
filed or issue joined, the cause was removed to the Circuit Court
for the county of Washington, by an" order passed on the 12th of
November, 1841, upon- the motion of the defendant in error.
The case was continued in that court without any alteration in the
pleadings until November term, 1842, when an amended declaration was filed. This declaration consisted of a single count, and
differed from the original one only in undertaking to set oi~t the
abuttals of the close in which the trespass was alleged to have
been committed. The defendant in the Circuit (ourt pleaded not
guilty to this declaration, upon which issue was joined and a jury
sworn ; but before a verdict was rendered a juror was withdrawn by
ccnsent, and upon the motion of the parties by their attorneys the
matter in variance betweeri them was by a rule of Court referred to
four arbitrators named in the order of reference. The reference
was made upon certain terms spebified in a written agreement filed
in the cas6, setting forth the manner in which the arbitrators were
to be selected and the damages calculated, with power to the referees to choose an umpire, if they or a majority of them could not
.agiee.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

87

The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swann.

The arbitrators, before they entered upon an examination of the
case, appointed an umpire, xyho afterwards madehis award, and thereby awarded that the defendant (in the District Court) should pay
to the plaintiff the sum of six thousand nine hundred and sixty
eight dollars and seventy five cents, in full satisfaction of all the
matters of damage and value submitted to his umpirage. This
award was fileq September 21, 1843, and notice of it regularly
served on the plaintiff in error ; and thereupon a judgment was entered for the amount awarded on the 17th of January, 1844. It is
upon this judgment that the present writ of error is brought.
It appears from the record that no objection was taken to the
award in the Circuit Court, nor apy affidavits filed to impeach it.
Several depositions were filed by the defendant in error, which
are not material to this decision, except in one particular, which will
be hereafter noticed, on account of an objection to the award founded upon it.
The reference to arbitrators and the proceedings thereon, and
the judgment given by the court below, were all under and intended
to be pursuant to the acts of'assemblyof Maryland of 1788, ch. 21,
§. 9, and 1785, ch. 30, §. 11. It is admitted that these proceedings were fiot authorized by the laws in force in Alexandria county ;
And it is objected by the plaintiff in error that, inasmuch as no judgment could have been lawfully rendered upon these proceedings in
Alexandria county, no judgment ought to have been rendered upon
them in Washington ; that the removal of -acase under the laws of
Congress is a mere chanue of venire ; and that the rights of the parties ate still to be tried according to the laws and modes of proceeding recognized hnd established in'the Ciruit Court for the
county in which the suit was, originally instituted.
Undoubtedly, whatever rights the canal company had in Alexandria county, and whatever defences it might there have made, either
as-to the form of the action or upon any other ground, it might
still rely upon them in the new forum; and whatever would have
been a bar to the action in Alexandria county would be equally a
bar' in Washington. The question here, however, is not upon the
rights of the respective parties, but upon the mode of proceeding
by which they were determined ; and this must evidently be*regulated by the law of the court to which the suit was transferred. For
after the removal took place the action, according to the act of
Congress, was pending in Washington county, te be there prosecuted and tried, and the judgment of that court to be carried into execution. And as the act neither directs nor anuthori.ks'any change
in its practice or proceedings in removed cases, it follows that they
must be prosecuted and tried like othei actions in that'court, and
coul& not lawfully be prosecuted and tried in any other manner. In
impanelling a jury, fbr example, for. the trial of the-facts, it could
no( put aside the jurors required* b, law to attend that court, and

88

-

,3UPREME COURT.
The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swann.

direct a panel of twelve to be summoned for the particular case,
pursuant to the law of Virginia. Nor could it deny to either party
the right to strike off four names from the list of twenty, according
to the law of Washington county, although the rule is otherwise in
the county of Alexandria. And upon the same principles the
selection of arbitrators, the proceedings before them, and the
legal effect of their award, could be no more influenced by the law
upon that subject, on the other side of the Potomac, than the summoning, striking, and impanelling of a jury. The validity of the
reference, therefore, and of the proceedings and judgment upon it,
must depend upon the law of Maryland and not upon the law of
Virginia. And if the judgment given by the Circuit Court was
anthorized by the foner, it cannot be impeached upon the ground
that such proceedings would not have ben"lawful in Alexandria
county.

Trying the case upon these principles, it is very clear that as no
objection was taken to the awardlin the Circuit Court, the judgment upon it was correct and must be affirmed in this court, ixless
some substantial objection appears on the face of the Droceedings
or in the award itself.
It has been urged, however, that it is apparent, on the face of the
proceedings, that the arbitrators committed a mistake in the law ;
that the record shows the acts ccrmplained of to have been done'in
execution of the power conferred on the company to construct a
canal ; and that under the act of Congress, they had a right to enter
upon any land they deemed necessary for that purpose, leaving the
damagesto be afterwards ascertained in the mode pointed dut' by
the law ; and that consequently an action of trespa.,s will not lie.
But it is very clear that this question of law was not before the
referees or the court ; nor was it in any way involvfed in the decision of either. For if the plaintiff in orror could have justified the
entry upon the ground suggested, the justification ought to have
been pleaded. And as this was not done, the question as to the legal sufficiency of this defence was not referred to the arbitrators nor
decided upon by their award.
It is said, however, that it was pleaded. . This is true as relates to
the pleadings filed to the original declaration. But an amended declaration vas subsequently filed, and to this the plaintiff in error
pleaded anew.* The "arended declaration was not an additional
count to the former one, but was itself the entire dpclaration substituted for the former. And it was evidently so regarded by all parties at the-time. For the plaintiff in error renewed his plea of not
guilty, which he had put into the .former one, - omitting, however,
his former pleas of limitation and justification ; and these, two must
have been undeistood to be waived,.for there was no replication to either of them, nor any issue joined upon them, formal or informal.
The questions, therefore, which wov4, have arisen on these pleas,

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

89

The Alexandria Canal Co. v. Swafin.

were not Teferred by the written agreement, were not in issue,
and consequently could not have been considered or decided by 6harbitrators.
Neither can the objection be maintained which has been takenr to
the power of the company under its charter to refer such a question
of damage. The corporatin was a partyto the actioni court,.
and it like
might
lawfully take toany
stepit that
an .judgment-"
individual might
under
circumstances,
bring
to final
nd atake,
trial
-

by
arbitrators, appointed by the court with the consent of both parestablished
as fully
warranted
by law as
a trial
ties,Butis independently
one and
of the
modes
jury. as well
of prosecutig
a suit
to by
judgment
of this principle and of the pendency of a suit;
the thirteenth section of the act of Congress
authorizes the canal
company to agree to a reference. It provides that the president
and use
directors
may agreeofwith
the
for thepurposes;
and occupation
purchase, or for
the the
landproprietor
for temporary
and it
does not confine the power to an agreement
spedifying a particular
Ssum of money. On the contrary, it authorizes anagreement in geeral terms.
And ifthis
theagreement
tratrs
company isagree
may award,
to pay
such the
sum
as arbias clearly
within
words
and
intention of theia as ifa specific. sim had been
fixed
upon
by the
parties. We therefore see no objection to
the. reference in this
case; nor to the agreement by which it was made.
We do not think it necessary to inquire whether
the power to
direct the proceedings in the suitand assent
to the referece belonged to the president and directers or nto
the stockholders assembld in gneral meeting.t The corporation,
however governed
in this particular, was the party defendant in court,
sented by its counseli and his acts are presumed and was repreto be authorized
by the paty in conducting the suit. This has
long been the seted
law of
which
raryland,
is the law of Washington
It is true that in this case the agreement for county.
the reference is
signed by the coprsel who bad appeared for
the canal 'company
in Alexandra6
but who did
not appear
on who
-Court
the record in the Circuit
for Washington.
Yetthe
attorney
did appear joined in
the motion for the reference, received notice
of the award after it.
was returned, and made- n objection to the authority
under Which
the arbitrators ad been appointed. It is too
late to make it here,
even if it'would have-been available, in the Circuit
Court. Bt as
the attorney on the record must have united in
the
motion for the
'reference, it i.n very clear that 'the objection
would have beCn untenable there as well as here.
We see nothing, therefore,- in the pleadings or
tear to the order of reference, whichcan impeachproceruings anof the judgment in the court below. It recains the correctness.
only to examine
'whether there is any thing liable to objection
i the proceedings ofthe referees or in the award returned by the urfipire.

90

SUPREME COURT.
The Alexandria Canal- Co. v. Swann.

The authority of the umpire has been objected to, because it appears, by the affidavits filed by the defendant in error, that he was
appointed befdre the referees had heard the evidence and discovered that they could not agree. But whatever doubts may have
been once entertained upon this question, itis now well settled both
upon principle and authority that the appointment is good. And
indeed it has been said by this court that it is more expedient to appoint the umpire in the first instance, as was -done here, than to
wait until the evidence was all heard and the arbitrators had finally
differed. 8 Peters, 178.
The umpire, therefore, being regularly appointed, the remaining
question is upon the sufficiency of his award. , There was no dispute as. to the title to the land, and upon the issue joined in the case,.
therefore, the only matter in controversy was, whether the acts complained of, had been committed, and if they had, what damage was
the defendant in error entitled to recover. This was the only matter in variance referred. The written agreement filed by the parties
states the principles upon which they mutually agreed that the
amount of .damages should be calculated ; and the award"of the
umpire ascertains and awards the amount upon the principles
mentioned in the agreement. His award is upon the subject-matter
referred. It covers the whole controversy submitted to. him, and
nothing more; and upon that it is certain and final.
There is indeed in the written agreement for the reference a
clhuse which provides that, upon the payment for the damages
awarded,-the defendant in error should convey to the company the
land selected f6r permanent occupation; and the umpire has takea
no notice of this agreement to convey. We think he very properly
omitted to notice it, for it was not put in' issue by the pleadings,
nor proposed to be referred in the argument filed. On the contrary,
the duty of the"arbitrators was limited to the question of damagevThe'value of this land was indeed one of the items they were required to consider in calculating the amount of damage; but they
had no power to award how or when it shold be conveyed. Nor
does the ifight of the canal company to the conveyance depend in
,any degree upon the award or direction of the arbitrators concerning it. Their right is absolute by the agreement, upon the payment
of the damages awarded ; and the conveyance may be enforced like
any other right acquired by contract.
Upon the whole, we are of qpinion that there, is no error in the
judgment of the Circu!%Court ; and it must therefore be affirmed,
with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be-heard.on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of. -the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of- Washington, and was

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

91

Bridges et aL. v. Armour et'al.

argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby afflirmed, with
costs and damages at the rate of six per bent per annum.

D. BRDEs, JOHN K. MlAaa&Y, JArsr N. HARPER, AND STERN
SIMMONDS, LATE MERCHANTS AND PARTNERS IN TRADE,, UNDER TE

HENRY

NA=E, FIRM, AND STYLE OF BRiDGs, MABRAY, AND COmPANY,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. WILLIA1 Aumoun, HENRY LAKE, AND
ftLIx WALKER, LATE MERCHANTS AND PARTNERS IN TRADE, UNDER
THMENAME, FIRml AND STYLE OF ARmoUR, LAKE, AM WALKER,
DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Aparty upon the record, although divested of all interest in the event of the suit,
is not a competent witness m a cause.
If a person be declared a bankrupt at ,a time when a suit is pending to which he
is a party, his discharge would not be a bar to his liability for costs upon a judgment obtained subsequently to his discharge. His liability for costs, thercfore,
excludes him as a witness upon the ground f interest.
Ifthe event of the suit may increase the effects of the bankrupt in the hands of the
assignee, and thus increase the surplus which would belong to ii, he is an incompetent witness.

THis caSe was brought up, by *rit of error, from the DiStrict
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi.
On the 26th of September, 1840, Bridges, Mabray, & Co., gave
their promissory note to Armour, Lake, '& W lker,* or order,
payable one, day after date, for $3,158.69, being balance of bookaqcount, bearing interest at eight per cent per annum, from the ist
day of August, 1840, until paid.
The note not being paid, a suit was commenced on the 12th
of November following. As no question arises upon the pleadings,
it will be unnecessary to refer to them. They resulted in several
issues of fact.
On the trial, in June term, 1844, the plaintiffs offered in evidence
the deposition of Walker, a coplaintiff on the record, taken in answer to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories before a commissioner in New Orleans, in pursuance of a stipulation between the
attorneys ; and in which the attorney for the defendants agreed to
waive any exception for want of issuing a commission, ini due form,
to take the testimony, or for want of notice of its execution to the
defendants.
It appeared on the trial that Walker had obtained a discharge
under the bankrupt act, by which be was discharged from all his
-debts owing by.bim at the tinie of presenting his petition, to wit, on

