JANUARY TERM, 1847.

213

Miners' Bank v. The United States.

Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Oir. Grant, on a prior
day of the present term, to dismiss this writ of error, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon, had as well against as in support of
the said motion, it is now here ordered by this court, that the said
motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

MINERS' BANK or DUBUQUE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED
STATES

EX REL.

JAIaES GRANT.

A judgment of a court, sustaining a demurrer under the following circumstances,
is not a final judgment which can be reviewed by this court.
Information in the nature of a quo warrarln, calling upon the Presideint, Directors,
and Company of the liners' Bank of Dubuque to show by what warrant they
claimed the right to use the franchise.
Plea, referring to an act of incorporation,
Rephlication, that the act of incorporation had been repealed.
Rejoinder, that the repealing law was passed without notice to the parties, and
without any evidence of misuse of the franchise.
Demurrer to the rejoinder.
Joinder in demurrer.
Sustaining the demurrer, without any further judgment of the court,' did not prevent the parties from continuing to exercise the franchise, and therefore is not a
final judgment.

The writ of error must, upon motion, be dismissed.

A MOTIO31"was made by Mlir. Grant and ,Mr.
Hastings to dismiss the writ of error in this case, upon the same grounds as in
the preceding case of Sheppard and others v. Wilson, and upon
the additional ground, that the judgment in this case was not a
final judgment.
.JITr. Webster. If it was not a final judgment, the court below
is abolished, and the counsel on the other side'may make whatever
use they ean 9f the record.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been brought here by a writ of error to he Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa. A motion hasbeen made
to dismiss the writ upon several grounds, and among others, upon
the ground that the judgment of the Territorial court is not a final
one ; and therefore, under the act of June 12, 1838, ch. 96, ยง 9
(5 Statutes at Large, 238), cannotbe brought here for revision by
writ of ,rror.
It appears that an information in the nature of a quo warranto
was- filed by the United -States in the District Court of Iowa,
against certain persons named inthe information, who are now the
plaintiffs in error, charging them with having used the liberties and

214

SUPREME, COURT.
Miners' Bank'r. The United States.

franchises of President, Directors, and Company of the Miners'
Bank of Dubuque, without any lawful authority; and calling upon
them to show by what warrant they claim the right to use the liberties and franchises aforesaid.
The plaintiffs in error appeared, and pleaded that the privileges
and franchises which they were exercising were conferred on them
by a charter of incorporation, duly passed by the proper authority,
which is more particularly set forth in the plea, but need not be
here stated.
To this plea, the defendant in error replied, that the act of incorporation conferring the privileges in question was repealed by the
legislature of Iowa.; and the plaintiffs in error rejoined, averring
that the repealing law was passed without any notice to them, or any
opportunity afforded them of being heard in their defence, and without any evidence of the abuse and misuse of any of the liberties and
franchises in question. To this rejoinder the defendant in erroi
demurred, and the plaintiffs joined in demurrer, and at the trial of
the case, the following judgment was given by the court :-" It appears to the court that the said rejoinder, and the matters
therein contained, are not sufficient in law to bar or preclude the
said plaintiffs from having and maintaining their aforesaid information thereof against the said defendants, and that said demurrer
ought to be sustained.
" Therefore it is ordered by the court here, that thie said defendants take nothing by their said rejoinder, and that they have leave
to amend or answer over to the said plaintiffs' replication, by Monday morning next, at the meeting of the court."
No amendment, however, appears to have been made, nor any
further proceeding to have been had in the District Court; but
upon the judgment above stated the case was removed to the Siupreme Court of the Territory, where the judgment of the District
Court was affirmed, and a procedendo awarded.
It is evident that this judgment is not a final one against the plaintiffs in error. It merely decides, that the rejoinder and the matters therein contained are not sufficient to bar the, information, and
that the demurrer ought to be sustained, and that the plaintiffs in
error take nothing by their rejoinder. But there is no judgment
of ouster against them, nor any thing in the judgment which prevents them from continuing to exercise the liberties and privileges
which the information charges them to have usurped. In order to
make the decision a final one, the court, under the opinion expressed
by them, should have proceeded to adjudge that the plaintiffs in
error do not in any manner use the privileges and franchises in
question, and that they be for ever absolutely forejudged and exccluded from exercising or using the same, or any of them, in future.
And we presume that the Supreme Court of the Territory awarded
the procedendo to the District Court in order to enable it to pro-

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

215

Jones v. Van Zandt.

ceed to final judgment, the Supreme Court having no power to
give a judgment of ouster, in the shape in which the case came before it.
Inasmuch, therefore, as there has been no final judgment, the
writ of error from this court must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. And being dismissed on this ground, it is unnecessary to
examine the other objections which have been taken in support of
the motion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Iowa, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, and it appearing to the
court here upon an inspection of said transcript that 'the judgment of the said Supreme Court is not a final one in the case, it
is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
writ of error be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

.WHARTON JONES, PLAINTIFF, V. JOHN VAN
ZANDT.
Under the fourth section of the -ct of 12th February, 1793, respecting fugitives
from justice, and persons escar,.ig from the service of their master, on a charge
for barbouring and concealing fugitives from labor, the notice need not be in
writing by the claimant or his agent, stating that such person is a fugitive from
labor under the third section of the above act, and served on the person harbouring or concealing such fugitive, to make him liable to the penalty of five hundred
dollars under the act.
Such notice, if not in writing and served as aforesaid, may be given verbally by
the claimant or his agent to the person who harbours or conceals the fugitive;
and to charge him under the statute a general notice to the public in a newspaper
is not necessary.
Clear proof of the knowledge of the defendant, by his own confession or otherwise,
that he knew the colored person was a slave and fugitive from labor, though he
may have acquired such knowledge from the slave himself, or otherwise, is sufficient to charge him with notice.
Receiving the fugitive from labor at three o'clock in the morning, at a place in
the State of Ohio about twelve miles distant from the place in Kentucky where
the fugitive was held to labor, from a certain individual, and transporting him in
a closely covered wagon twelve, or fourteen miles, so that the boy thereby escaped pursuit. and his services were thereby lost to his master, is a harbouring or
concealing of the fugitive within the statute.
A transportation unde' the above circumstances, though the boy should be recaptured by his master, is a harbouring or concealing of him within the statute.
Such a transportation, in such a wagon, whereby the services of the boy were entirbly lost to his master, is a harbouring of him within the statute.
A claim of the fugitive from the person harbouring or concealing him need not precede or accompany the notice.
Any overt act so marked in its character as to show an intention to elude the vigilance of the master or his agent, and which is calculated to attain such an object,
is a harbouring of the fugitive within the statute.
In this particularcase, the first and second'counts contain the necessary averments,
that Andrew, the colored man, escaped from tne State of Kentucky into the State
of Ohio.

