JANUAkRY .TERM, 1847.

69

Hildeburn v.'Turner.

argued by counsel.

On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by- this court that this writ of error be and the
same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

SADIUEL HILDEBURN, PLAINTIFF, V. HENRY TURNER, DEFENDANT.
When a bill of exchange is made payable at a bank, and the bank itself is the
holder of the bill, it is a sufficient demand if the notary presents it at the bank
and demands payment.
If, therefore, the protest states this and also that the -notary was answered that it
could not be paid, it is sufficient, It is not necessary for'him to give the name
of the person or officer of the'bdnk to whom it was -presented, and by whom he
was answered.

THis case came up on a certificate of division in opinion from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
The point of difference is fully set forth in the -opinion of the
court.
It was argued by .ir. Brent, for the plaintiff, and .Xr. Bibb, for
the defendant.
Mr. Brent, for plaintiff.
The single question is on the admissibility of the notarial protest;
and, if admissible for any yurpose, .it is competent evidence. The
bill of exchange is drawn in Yfisissippi, payable in Louisiana ; and,
in such case, the protest is evidence by the law-merchant. 2 Peters,
593; 2 Peters, 691; Waldron v. Turpin, 15 Louisiana Rep.'555
5 Martin's (N. S.) Rep. 513. On this head, I also refer to the
statute of Louisiana, 1827 (Bullard and Cuny's Digest, 13, 43),
and to 14 Louisiaria Rep. 394 ; Franklin v. Verbois, 0 Louisiana
Rep. 730. The demand is lresumed to be made in business hours.
Fleming v. Fulton, 6 Howard's-Miss. Rep. 484. I also refer to
the decision of this court in Musson v. Lake, 4 How. S. C. R.
262, and to Brandon & Lofftus v. Whitehead, 4 How. S. C. R.
127 ; also to Bank of the United States t. Carmdal, 2 Peters, 549.
Sfr. Bibb,, for defendant.
The o1jection' taken to the eafding of the protest oftered in evdence was, that the protest did not contain a sufficient statepient of.
the presentment of the bill for payment.
The bill was drawn by A. G. Bennett, at Canton, Mississippi, on
H. F. Bennett, at same. place, in favor of Henry Turner, in New
Orleans, for $995.04, payable at the Merchants' Bank of New

70

SUPREME COURT,
Hildeburn v. Turner,

Orleans. twelve months after date. Accepted by H, F. Bennett,
indorsed to Samuel Hildebur by Henry Turner, and -to A. H.
Wallace &.Co., by the indorsee, Hilderburn.
At the reThe notary in his protest'for non-payment states, quest of the Merchants" Bank of New Orleans, holder," " I presented said draft to the proper officer at the Merchants' Bank,
where the same is made payable, and demanded iPayment. thereof.
I was answered that the same could not be paid." ' Whereupon he
protested, &c.
No person is named to whom 'hepresented the bill for payment.
The notary has undertaken to judge a matter of-lawV,'instead of
certifying the name -of the person supposed to be the proper officer
of the batik. -Was he the president, or the cashier, or a director?
Who was'he ? What was his name ?
The notary pres.ented the bill to an offcer of the holder, and
demanded payment of the holder's servant or agent.
The notary should have exhibited the bill openly and publicly at
.the bank, and demanded payment openly and publicly, so that all
persons at the bank, or in hearing, might bave'had notice.
.As the presentment of the bill was not to the acceptor, nor to any
person iihis emplby, the demand of payment, at the place appointed
in the body of the bill, should have b6en general and iublic, so that
any person interested might have taken up the bill.
The person, the name of the person, to whom the presentment
and demand.ofpaymeit was. made, should have been stated.
See Chitty on Bills and Form of Protest (9 Lond. ed.),.462.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a certificate of division
from the Circuit Court for the'Southerm District of Mississippi.
The case stated is this. The plaintiff offered -in evidence a bill
drawn by A. G. Bennett, at Canton, Mississippi, upon Henry F.
Bennett, payable twelve months after date, to the order of Henry
Turner, in New Orleans, at the Merchants'-Bank thre, for nine hundred ad ninety five dollars and four cents, which was arcepted-by
the drawee, .and ndorsed by Turner, the payee, to Hildeburn the
plaintiff. There.were also subsequent indorsements up6n ihe bill,
.which it'is not- material to -notice. And in order to show that the
bill had been duly presented for payment and refused, :the plaintiff
offered to 'read the following notarial protest, upon the back of
.which -was a copy of the bill and acceptance, and the indorsements
thereon.
United States of America, State of Louisiand :
By this public -instrument of protest, .be it -known that, on this
fourth'day of January,. in the year one thousafid, eight' hundred and
forty one, at the request of the Merrhants Bank -of New Orleans,

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

71

Hirdeburn v. Turner.

holder of the orrial, whereof a true copy is dn the reverse hereof
written, Ii Jules -Mossy, a notary public in and for.the city and parish of New Orleans4 State of Louisiana-, aforesaid, -duly cdmmissioned and sworn, presented said .draftto the proper officer at the
Merchants' Bank, where the same is made payable, and 'demanded
payment thereof. I was answered that the same. could not be paid.
Whereupon, I, the said notary, at the reqixbst aforesaid; did protest,
and by these presents do 'publicly and. solkmnly protest, as well
agaiist_ the drawer or maker of said draft as apinst all. others
'whom it may-concern, for all exchange, regxchange, dafinages,
costs, charges, 'nd interests, suffered- -or to be suffered, for want
of payment of the said draft.
Thus done and protested -in the presence' of George Lanaux.and
Jas. P; Gilly, witnesses.
In testimon* whereof, I grant these presents, undermy signature,
[L
and the impress° of my seal of offiee, at- the city of New' Or.
L. s.] leans,, on the 'Iay and year first above written.
JULE.S Mossy, yNotary Pubic.
(Signed.)
The defendant' objected to the -reading of this prote'st, -upon the
ground that it did not- contain a sufficient statement of the presentment of the Vill for payment.. And upon this question the judgesi
of the Circuit -Cou 'eredivked in opn on
d'thereupon, ordered
it to be certified to this couit.
This protest is not'altogether in. the- language usually employed in
instruments of that des--iption, but we think it contains enough to
'made. .Unshow that the presentment and demand were
doubtedly, the principles of justice, and the safety' of the -commercial community, require that such instruments should be carefully
examined, and should not be admitted in evidence unless they Jhow
plainly that every thing was done which the law requires to charge
te indorser. But in this case, it appears by the protest. that the
Merchants' Bank, at which it was payable, was the holder of the bill,"
and that the notary presented it for payment at the bank, and.demanded payment thereof, and was answered that it could not be paid.
According to the current of authorities, nothing more njed'he stated
in the protest of a bill of this' kind; payable at a banic, and of which
the bank is the holder., and it'is not' hecessary to give the name of
the person or officer of the bank to whom it'was presentad, or by
whom he was 'answered.: Neither does th "statementin this case,
that it was presented to the proper officer-of the bank, give any.ad-;
ditional validity to. this plotest. F6r when the-law requires the bill
to be presented to any partiiilar" person or. officer of a bank, the
protest inuct show that it-was presented accordingly, .and it would
not be sumcient, to-say that.he presented'it to tho-proper person or
proper offier.' In this case,, however,'the. preseftment and- demand.-*at- the place' where it vas. made 'paypble is.all -that was
-du-y

'72

SUPREME

COURT.

Miller v. Herbert et al.

necessary, and as this appears to have been done, the protest ought
to have been received in evidence, and.we shall cause it to be cer"tified accordingly to the Circuit Court.
Order.
'This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United $tates for the Southern District of Mississippi, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed -in opinion, and
which were certified, to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is, the opinion of this
court 'that the, protest offered in this case ought to have been reeived as evidence; wherefore, it is now. here ordered and adjudged that 'it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

HENRr MILLER, ADIIINISTRATO or GEORGE MILLER, DECEASED,
PLAINTJFF. IN ERROR, v. BETSEY HERBERT AND CAROLINE HER.
-BERT, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR. Under a statute o1 Maryland passed in 1796, a deed of manumission is net good
unless ;recorded within six months after its date; and this law is in force in
Washington county, District of Columbia.
The statutes and decisions of Maryland exafnined.

This case was broug t up, by writ of error, .rom the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, for the county of Washington. The defendants in error filed their petition in the Circuit Court,
by which they claimed a right to their freedom, under a deed of
manumission executed'to them on the 28th of February, 1842, by
their owner, George Miller, who, was an inhabitant of Washington
county, at the daite of the deed, and at- the time of his'death, and
on whose estate the plaintiff in error bad taken administration. ,
The petition, setting out the character'of the claim of the defend.ants in error, was in the' following words.
To the Honorable, Judges of the Circuit Court of the District of
Cclumbia for Washington County:
The petition of Betsey Herbert and Caroline Herbert humbly
showeth, that your petitioners were the slaves of George Miller,
late of the city of Washington, deceased ; that the said decedent,
in his lifetime, intending to manumit and set free from slavery your
petitioners, caused to be prepared a paper-writing -for that purpose,
'and sent for' S. Drury, Esq., a justice of the peace of said county,

