JANUARY

TERM,

Ford v. Douglas

1847.

148

et al.'

be clear, the injury impending, and threatened so as to be aveaed
only by the protecting preventive process of injunction." Baldwin's
Rep. 218. It never should be permitted to issue where it is even
suspected that it will be prostituted to the unworthy purpose of delaying, vexing, and harassihg suitors at law in the prosecution of their
just demands.
Let the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern .iDistrict of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court that the
decree of the said Circuit Court. in this cause be and the-same is
'hereby affirmed, with costs.

CHRISTOPHER FORD, APPELLANT, v. ARCHIBALD DOUGLAS, MAXWELV.
W. BLAND, AND EIELINE, His WIPE, APPELLEES.
By. the laws of Louisiana; where tmere has been a judicial sale of the succession by
a probate judge, a creditor of the estate, who obtains a judgmeit; cannot levy an
execution upon, the property so transferred, upon the ground that the sale was
fraudulent and void. fe should first bring an actign to set the sale aside.
The purchaser under the judicial sale having filed
a bill and obtained an idjunction
upon the creditor to stay the execution, it was alhiriegular mode of raising the
question of fraud for the creditor to file an answer setting it forth, and alleging
the sale to be void upon that ground. He should have filed a crass bin.. Exceptions to the answer upon thiis account were properly sustained by the' court
below.
But if the court below should perpetuate the injunction, upon the defendants' refusal to answer further, the injunction should be free from doubt, in leaving ,ae
creditor to pursue other property under his judgment, and also atliberty to file a'
cross bill. If the injunction does not clearly reserve these rights to the creditor
it goes too far, and the judgment of the couit below must be reversed.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
As the merits of the case were not involved in the decision of the
court, it will only be necessary. to give such a narrative of the facts
as will illustrate the points of law upon.which the decision turned.
On the 24th of November, 1837, James S. Douglas, of the
State of Louisiana, made his last will and testament, as follows I, James S. Douglas, of the parish of Concordia, and State of"
Louisiana, being feeble in body, and knowing the uncertainty of this
life, but of sound and disposing mind and memory, do make and
publish this my last will and testament.
First. I direbt that all my just debts be pai as soon after my

144

SUPREME .COURT.
Ford v

Dougl1s et al.

decease as my executors shall realize the same from the real and
personal estate intrusted to their care and management.
Secondly. Reposing the utmost confidence in my beloved wife,
Emeline Douglas, I hereby constitute and appoint her executrix,
and my brother, Stephen Dbuglas, and my friend, Ppssmore
Hoopes, executors of all my estate, real and personal, lying and
being in the State of Mississippi.
Thirdly. I also appoint my brother, Stephen Douglas, and my
friend, Passmore Hoopes, executors of all my estate, real and personal, lying and being-in the said State of Louisiana.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this
twenty-fourth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-seven.
Signed,
JAMES S. DOUGLAS.
[SEAL.]
This will, being duly attested, was admitted to probate in Mississippi on the'25th of December, 1837, and letters, testamentary
granted. It is not necessdry to follow the proceedings in Mississippi further.
In 1838, May 26th, in the State of Louisiana, before Richard
Charles Downes, phrish judge in and for the parish of Madison,
ex officio judge of probates, carie Stephen Douglas, p esentdd his
petition, setting forth the death of his brother, James S. Douglas,
as happening in November, 1837 ; that he made his last will and
testament, wherein he appointed the said Stephen Douglas and
Passmore Hoopes testamentary executors of his estate in Louisiana ; that probate of the will had been madein Claiborne county,
Mississippi ; therefore, praying letters in pursuance of the testament, and an inventory ;- whereupon, the judge ordered that, upon
probate of the testament, an inventory be taken.
On the 30th of March, 1839, the will was proved in Louisiana,
as it had before been in Mississippi. Amongst other claims against
the estate, Stephen Douglas, the executor, filed an account, claiming a debt due to .him of $ 53,150.42.
On the 31st of October,-1839, Emeline Douglas, the widow,
was appointed guardian of her four children, and Archibald Douglas, a younger brother of Stephen, was appoi.nted under tutor or
guardian. A family meeting was called, and attended the parish
judge, which advised'the sale of the plantation and slaves, implements, cattle, &c., at the'head of Lake St. Joseph's, to satisfy the
balance due to Stephen Douglas, the executor.
The sale was accordingly ordered by the parish judge, and took
place on the 23d of March, 1840, when Mrs. Emeline Douglas
and Archibald Douglas became the purchasers.
On the 1st of April, 1840, Emeline Douglas obtained a judgment
iii her favor against the estate for $76,634.74, and, on the 22d of
April, the parish judge ordered another 'sale to take place'for the
purpose of paying this debt.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
Ford v. Douglas

145

et al.

On the 8th of June, 1840, the parish judge made sale of a plantation called Buck Ridge, slaves, cattle, corn, &c., all of which
belonged, jointly, to James S. Douglas, the decease'd, and Stephen
Douglas, the executor. This property was purchased by Emeline
Douglas and Archibald Douglas for $83,000.
In December, 1840, and January, 1842, Ford, a citizen of Virginia, obtained the three following judgments against the executor,
in the Circuit Court of the United States, viz. : -the one judgment
obtained on the 23d of December, 1840, for $ 9,180; with interest,
at the rate of eight per cent per. year, from the 15th of January,
1838, on one half thereof, and from 15th of January, 1839, on the
other half thereof, besides costs.
Another judgment, of the 26th of December, 1840, for $ 4,590,
with interest at same rate from 15th of January, 1840, besides costs.
The third, of January 3d, 1842, for $ 4,590, with interest at
same rate until paid, besides costs, - maldng together $ 18,360,
besides interest and costs.
Executions were issued upon these judgments and levied upon
the property which had been purchased by Emeline Douglas and
Archibald Douglas.
On the 21st of December, 1842, Archibald Douglas, Maxwell
W. Bland, and Emeline, his wife (late Emeline Douglas), filed their.
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, against Christopher Ford and the marshal,
praying for an injunction to stay further proceedings udder the judgments, and thAt they might be quieted in their possession of the
property which they had purchased.
On the 30th of December, 1842, an injunction was issued accordingly.
On the 21st of April, 1843, Ford iled his answer, in which he
alleged that the proceedings under the will, as well in 'Mississippi as
in Louisiana, were the result of fraud, collusion, and combination,
in consequence of which they were null and v6id, and passed no
title to the complainants. The answer then proceeded to set forth,
with great particularity, the acts of which he complained, and concluded as follows :"This respondent, having answered the allegations in said pettion
set forth, prays this honorable court that the said petition may be
decreed to be dismissed, and the injunction had and obtained in this
case may be dissolved, and a judgment rendered against the said
petitioners and the sureties on their injunction-bond for damages,
according to law. That this honorable court make such other judgment, orders, and decrees, as may be found legal and proper, to
declare void and null the sales relied on in said petition ; to finally
dissolve the said injunction with legal damages in favoi of this respondent ; to dismiss said petition and.relieve this respondent from
the opposition of said petitioners ; to order the marshal to proceed.
VOL. v.

13

146

SUPREM-E COURT.
Foid vf. Douglas et al.

to the sale of said property under the said three writs offierifacias,
for the satisfaction of the said judgments of this respondent ; and
that this respondent have judgment for his costs.
And this respondent will ever pray, &c.
Signed,

CHRISTOPHER FORD."

On the 22d of April, 1843, the following exception to the answer
was filed :The said plaintiffs except to the answer-filed by the said defendants'in this behalf, because the matters and things set forth in the
said answer cannot, by law, be inquired into in the present suit or
proceedings instituted by the said plaintiffs. And the said plaintiffs,
not admitting any of the facts or matters set forth and alleged in the
said answer of the said defendants, but, on the contrary, denying
and protesting against the truth of all and every part thereof, and
alleging that the truth thereof cannot be inquired into in this action,
pray that they may have the benefit of their injunction, and that the
same may be made perpetual, &c.
Jixo. R. GRYMES, for Plaintiffs.
Signed,
And on the same day and year aforesaid, to wit, on the 22d day
of April, 1843, the followifig agreement was fied DOUGLAS et al. v. C. FORD et al.
Circuit Cofirt of the United States, Eastern District of Louisiana :It is agreed that this case may be set down for argument on the
matters of law arising on the petition and answer, as on an exception to the answer ; and that if the judgment of the court, on the
matters of law, shoula be for the -defendant, the'plaintiffs may join
issue on the facts,,azd the testimony taken in the usual manner.
The plaintiffs to be at liberty, at any time before hearing, to file
special exceptions in writing.
s, for Plaintiffs.
Signed,
JNo. R. GRY
On the 22d of April, 184, the cause came on for trial upon the
plaintiffs' exceptions to. the answer of the defendant,- and on the
24th the following order of court was entered of record :•Monday,, April 24th, 1843.
The court met pursuant to adjournment. Present, the Honorable John McKinley, Presiding Judge ; the Honorable Theodore
H. McCaleb, District Judge.

et al. v. CHRISTOPHER FORD et al.
The consideration of exception filed in this case to the answer
of the defendant was this day resumed before the court, the ceomplainants not appearing either in person or by his solicitor, and F.
Houston, Esq., for the defendant. Whereupon, the arguments of
counsel being closed, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by- the
CHRISTOPHER DOUGLASS

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

147

Ford v. Dougjas et al.
court, that the exception of the complainants to defendants' answer
be sustained, rd that the defendant answer over.
'ARCHIBALD DOUGLAS et al. v. CHRISTOPHER FORD et al.

The defendant, Christopher Ford, by his counsel, declinds to
answer further in this case the bill of the plaintiffs, relying and insisting on the sufficiency of the ample and conclusive answer filed.
by him in this cause, and the utterly null and void character of the
title set up by said plaintiffs, apparent on their said bill, and the
record of the mortuary proceedings of the succession of the said
James S. Douglas, deceased. The defendant having declined to
answer further in this case, and to submit it to the court to render
such final decree in the case as may appear to them to be proper,
it is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the injunction
heretofore awarded in this case be and the same is madelerpetual ; and it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
plaintiffs recover the costs of suit, without prejudice to the right of
the defendant to any action he may think proper.
From this decree, Ford appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by ,Mr Bibb, for the appellant, and .7rr.
,Meredith, for the appellees.
.41r. Bibb examined the facts very minutely as they were presented in the record, with a view of su'taininz the charge of fraud,
and then proceeded.
The appellant assigns the err'ors following, as appellant on the
record :-

1. The judge erred in sustaining the exception to the answer,
and also in giving relief upon the bill ; thereby, in effect,, decreeing
that the plaintiffs could, as complainants in equity, ask the court to
aid them -in consummating their unfair practice and frauds, appearing
on the face of their bill and exhibit referred to as part of -their bill.
2. The judge erred in adjudging that -the matters of fraud and
collusiofi, alleged in the answer of the defendant, now.the appellant,
were not defences competent, fit and proper, legal and equitable,
to be inquired into in the suit prosecuted by the plaintiffs, now
appellees.
3. The court erred in sustaining the bill, and in giving any relief
to the complainants upon. the bill. *
4. The court erred in the nature and extent of the relief given to
the said complainants.
5. Upon the face of the bill and exhibit referred to, as the evidence of the title claimed by the plaintiffs, it appears that the plaintiffs had no title, had not capacity to bhome purchasers, that they
had paid no consideration, and that the proceedings in -the- parish
court were had, done, and procured by fraud and collusion, and
combination between the said Emeline and Archibald Douglas,

148

SUPREME

COURT.

Ford v. 'Douglas et al.

Stephen Douglas, the executo of the will and testament of James
S. iDouglas, and others, with intent and for the purpose of delaying,
hindering, aid defrauding the creditors of said testator, James S.
Douglas, and Christopher Ford in particular ; and therefore the till
should have been dismissed.
6. Upon the bill and transcript of the proceedings in the Parish
Court of Madison, Louisiana, exhibited by the plaintiffs in the court
below, as the evidence of their title, it appears that the title pretended by the said plaintiffs is invalid, prohibited by the policy of
the law, denounced and interdicted by the principles of equity ; and
therefore the bill should have been disxiissed.
7. The bill does not contain afy equity ; made no case proper
for the-aid of a court of equity.
Having set forth the facts which are relied on in the answer, most
of which are proved by recorded proceedings in the two courts respectively, - the court of probate, in Mississippi, and the parish
court of Louisiana, - it remains to inquire whether these matters of
fact were admissible defences for the defendant against the bill and
relief prayed.
The property levied upon by the marshal was confessedly of the
estate of the testator-, James S. Douglas, at the time of his death,
and liable to the' satisfaction of the executions' against Stephen
Douglas, executor of James S. Douglas, unless the complainants,
Emeline. Douglas, one of the testamentary executors, now Emeline
Bland, and Archibald Douglas, they being the tutrix or guardian
and under-guardian of the infants, have, by color of the sales and
purchases had and contrived, by fraud and collusion, and without
ever making .payment, under their collusive fraudulent doings,
changed the title, and are above the powers of a court of equity in
relation to the frauds.
At the threshold these questions Are presented: - Does a report
that a person was the best bidder, for lands and slaves at publio
auction, advertised f6r sale f6r cash, change the title and vest it in
the bidder, without any report of payment of the price, without any
receipt for the 'purchase or evidence of 'payment, without payment
made, and without- ability in the bidder to make payment of the
price ? Does the report of a sale of lands and slaves, as having been
made by a parish judge in the State of Louisiana, to. a bidder at the
price of $ 83;000, shield and defend the bidder from all inquiries as
"to his fraud, collusion, art, *and part in procuring a' fraudulent
judgment and order of sale ; and also as to the facts of non-payment of the purchase money, his inability to pay, and that the bidder had never been let into possession ?
The complainants, Archibald and Egmeline, to maintain their bill,
and their exeception to the answer of the defendant, Christopher
Ford, are under -the necessity to assert the affirmative of these
propositions.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

149

Ford v. Douglas et al.

The record of the proceedings in the parish court of Louisiana,
offered by complainants in equity as evidence of their title to the
property levied upon by the marshal to satisfy the executions, contains no report of the payment of the prices which they bid ; the
complainants offer no proof of payment ; their bill does not allege
payment ; the sum was above their circumstances and ability to pay
in cash ; the record abounds with evidence of fraud and collusion ;
the answer charges, that the design, end, and aim of the whole proceeding to judgment and sale was by a sham sale and colorable
purchase, to protect the property from the creditors of the testator,
whilst Stephen Douglas yet is the possessor of the estate as before
the pretended sale. The transcript of the proceedings in the probate court of Claiborne county, Mississippi, corroborates and
multiplies the acts of fraud and collusion ; and the averments in the
answer of Christopher Ford, if true, leave no room to doubt the
fraud.
Shall these pass without inquiry, without examination, without
trial, upon a bill brought by two of the confederates in the fraud and
collusion, asking a court of equity to call its moral powers into
activity to protect them and their confederate in the fruits of the
fraud ?
By the exception to the answer, and the decision of. the judge
below, the frauds are said not to be proper subjects of inquiry " in
the present suit or proceedings instituted by the said plaintiffs."
The exception, as taker and sustained, implies that the matters
and things set forth in the answer may be inquired into in some other
suit, in some other proceeding.
Does the attitude of Mrs. Douglas and Archibald Douglas, as
complainants in equity, ensconce them from reprobation for havig
art and part in the fraudulent and covinous proceedings which
they make the groundwork and. gravamen of their accusation and
prayer for relief ? The maxim in equity is, a complainant must
come into the court with clean hands.
I propose to comprise my argument, as to the principles of law
and equity which should rule the decision of this appeal, under these
general heads :1. 'The effect of fraud in contaminating and avoiding all proceedings and acts, as well semi-judicial as'judicial, had and done, contrived and procured, by fraud.
2. That the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, to
carry into execution and full effect their judgments and decrees, is
plenary ; ai.3 that the jurisdiction of the court of the United States,
to execute the judgments in favor of said. Ford, the appellant, is not
to be remitted and referred to the tribunals of the State of Louisiana, to give him execution and satisfaction of these judgments.
3, -That, upon the face of the transcript of the proceedings in the
parish court, as exhibited by the plaintiffs, now appellees, they
13*

.150

SUPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas et a].

were incapable, and prohibited by the policy of the law, and the
established principles of equity, to become purchasers at the sales
-therein mentioned, and by their own showing have not the title to
the property mentioned in their bill.
I. As to the effect of fraud.
Lord Chief Justice De Grey, in delivering the answer of the
judges to a question put to them in the Duchess of Kingston's case,
expressed the opinion of the judges thus : -- " Fraud is an extrinsic,
collateral act, violating the most solemn prbceedings of courts of
justice ; as Lord Coke says, avoiding all judicial, acts, ecclesiastieal and temporal."
The Duchess of Kingstoil's case, 20 Harg.
.State Trials, 602 (Cobbett's ed. 594).
A decree of exchequer, that a will was duly jroved which was
obtained by fraud, relieved against in chancery, by Lord Hardwicke. Barnsley v. Powel, 1 Ves. sen. 120 ; and ibid. 286, 287.
Where a fine and non-claim- is levied by fraud, a court of -equity
will relieve against the fine; per Lord Hardwi6ke. Cartwright v.
Pultny, 2 Atk. 381."
An original bill to set aside a decree obtained by gross fraud,
sustained by Lord Chancellor Macclesfield. Loyd v. Mansell, 2
P. Williams, 74, 75.
At law, defendant may plead that the judgment against his testator
was by fraud and covin. If a decree was by fraud and covin, the
party may be relieved against it ; not by rehearing or appeal, but
by original bill. By Lord Hyrdwicke, chancellor. Bradish *.
Gee, Ambler, 229.
"Equity has so great an abhorrence of fraud, that it will set aside
its own decrees, if founded thereon."
13 Viner, Fraud, (Aa.),
pl. 9, 10, p. 543. "1Equity will never countenance demands of'an unfair nature;
in this case it was to have an allowance for attending at auctions to
enhance the price of goods ; nor will equity suffer them to be set
off against fair and just demands ; and a cross-bill for that purpose
was dismissed with costs."
13 Viner, p. 544, pl. 13.
In chancery, between Richard Fermor, plaintiff, and Thomas
Smith, defendant, to set aside a fine levied by said Smith, by fraud
and covin, to bar the pldintiff of his inheritance. The proclamations and five years had past ; Smith, the tenant for years, all the
time continuing in possession, and paying Tent until his term expired,
and then he claimed the inheritance, and to bar the plaintiff by force
of the said fine and proclamations and five years. On the hearing
of the case, the Lord Keeper of the Great Seal, because it was a
case of great importance, and condidering that fines with proclamations were general assurances of the realm, referred the case to all
the justices of England and the barons of the exchequer,, all of
whom met (except two)- and consulted, and resolved that the plaintiff was not barred, because of the fraud and covin. And it was

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

151

Ford v. Douglas et a].

said that the common law "1doth so abhor fraud and covin, that all
acts, as well judicial as others, and which of themselves are just and
lawful, yet, being mixed with fraud and deceit, are in judgment of
And various'examples and precedents
law wrongful and unlawful."
of decisions are cited. Fermor's case, 3 Coke, 77, 78.
Chancellor Kept, in the case of Reigal v. Wood, 1 John. Ch.
Rep. 406, said, - "It is a well settled principle in this court,
that relief is to be obtained, not only against writings, deeds, and
the most solemn assurances, but 'against judgments and decrees, if
obtained by fraud and imposition."
In the case of Kennedy v. Daley, 1 Schoale & Lefroy, 355,
Chancellor Redesdale relieved against a decree obtained by fraud
and imposition, and declared it should have no effect. And that a
fine levied and non-claim, by a trustee-to a person having notice of
the trust, shall not bar the cestui que trust.
And .in the case of Giffard v. Hort, ibid, 386, he held a decree,
obtained without making parties of those persons who were known
to have rights in the estate, to be fraudulent and void as to those
not made parties, and a purchaser under the decree, with notice of
the defect, not to be protected by it. -The fraudulent decree was
in the e3chequer. Lord Redesdale laments numerous proceedings
in the exchequer, at a time when that court was oppressed with
business, and could not take time fc." full investigation and right decision, whereby advantage was taken by such proceedings to defraud
persons of property to which they were entitled. " It was one of
the crying grievances of time. A systematic use has been made of
the decrees of a court for the purpose of effecting fraud ; and it has
been as much a swindling contrivance to deprive a family of its
estate, as any of those contrivances which swindlers practise upon
unwary young men. I shall, Terefore, think myself bound to
struggle to the utmost of my power to relieve against such oppressive combinations."
Giffard v. Hort, 1 Scho. & Lef. 396.
Certain it is that distant creditors, legatees, and heirs have had
as ample cause to lament that a systematic use has been made of the
parish courts of Louisiana for effecting fraud and swindling, as Lord
Redesdale had for lamenting such like uses made of the court of
exchequer in Ireland.
The cases which I have cited show the active relief given upon
bills to annul those fraudulent judicial proceedings. The courts of
equity, true and consistent to the doctrine that "1all acts, as well
judicial as others, mixed with fraud and deceit, are in jiidgment of
law wrongful and unlawful," have ever refused to grant any relief to
a party who comes into a court of equity as plaintiff, asking to have
advantage of fraudulent or unfair proceedings.
The maxim in equity is, -"
He that hath committed iniquity
shall not have equity." Francis- Maxims, II. (old ed. p. 5, new
ed. p. 7).

152

SUPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas

et al.

Under that maxim, various examples are given of plaintiffs whose
suits were dismissed because the subjects of the bill were founded
in fraud or unfair dealing.
The plaintiff upon a loan of £ 90 got a bond for £ 800, and had
judgment. Thereupon he brought a bill to subject to the satisfaction of the debt certain lands of the defendant in right of his wife,
estated to trustees for her benefit. " But the security being gotten
from the defendant when he was drunk, the lord keeper would not
give the plaintiff any relief in equity, not so much as for 'the principal he had really lent, and so the bill was dismissed."
Rich v.
Sydenham, I Cases in Ch. 202.
Upon a bill to have the benefit of articles of marriage, which had
been reduced to writing but not sealed, containing an extreme -portion for the married daughter, more than would be left to her father
and mother, and two other daughters not provided for, the lord
chancellor would not decree the agreement, but left the plaintiff to recover at law if he could. Anonymous, 2 Cases in
Chan. 17.
To sustain the exception to the answer, or to give relief upon the
bill without an answer, upon the idea that the fraud was not a fit
subject of inquiry upon a bill by the actors, contrivers, and participators in the fraud and covin, was in contradiction to the established
principles of equity.
The complainants having brought their case into the court of
equity for relief, it was open to every defence, to every objection
which could have been made against it by a bill, on behalf of those
prejudiced by the proceedings in the parish court, to have relief
against the fraud and colin. If the Circuit Court of the United
States had jurisdiction to hear and determine the complaint as a
matter cognizable in equity, it had jurisdiction to hear and determine
the defence to the bill alleging the acts of fraud, collusion, and
covin, charged in the answer, which, if true, avoided the proceedings relied upon as the foundation of the bill.
The cause which had moved the complainants to come into
equity for relief did not curtail the powers and jurisdiction of the
court to hear and determine any and every equitable defence to the
bill. Fraud, covin, and collusion in the plaintiffs, had and used in
the proceedings on which they relied, was an equitable defence, a
bar to the relief prayed by the bill.
That the judgment creditor, C. Ford, the defendant, had caused
'the marshal to levy the executions upon the property alluded to in
the proceedings in the parish court, as exhibited by the complainants, neither purged the proceedings of the fraud, covin, and collusion, nor deprived the Circuit Court of the United States of its
powers, duties, and dignity as a court of equity.
The powers and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States were prescribed and conferred by the constitution and laws

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

153

Ford v. Douglas -et aL.

of the United States, not by the will and convenience of the com-planants in that bill.
Are the proceedings of the parish court of Madison, in the State
of Louisiana, final and .conclusive against all persons, parties, and
those not parties ? Are the frauds by which those judgments in
favor of the executor, Stephen Douglas, and in favQr of Mrs. Emeline Douglas, and the fraudulent, collusive, and covinous proceedings under those judgments, final, conclusive, sacred ; beyond the
p ower of all courts to overhaul them for fraud, deceit, and covin ?
o such sanctity can be ascribed to them.
Being liable to be impeached and avoided for fraud and covin,
the complainants, who have carried a transcript of those proceedings into the Circuit Codrt of the United States, and 4herein made
those proceedings the substratum of their bill in equity and prayer
for relief, have thereby subjected those proceedings to the examnation in that court, sitting as a court of equity.
But such jurisdictioi of the Circuit Court did not depend upon.
the volition of the said Archibald' and Emeline.
1I. The jurisdiction of-the courts of the United States, to carry
into execution and full effect their judgments aid decrees, is
plenary ; not to be remitted and referred to the tribunals of the
States.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States in
each particular case is not exhausted by the rendition of the judgment or decree, but continues until that judgment or decree shall be
satisfied. The beneficial exercise of the jurisdiction of the court to
compel satisfaction is not less important than the exercise of the jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment or decree. The jurisdiction
t0 enforce satisfaction by execution is a necessary incident to the
jurisdiction to give the judgment or decree ; it is expressly given in'
the acts of Congress establishing the courts and defining their juris-.
diction. The execution and satisfaction of the judgment is the very
"life of the law."
But I need not labor this point ; the doctrine is *well settled by
the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States. Wayman
v. Southard, 10 NIteat. 23 ; Bank of the United States v. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 64.
The learned counsellor, who argued this case for the appellees,
cited many decisions of the State court of Louisiana, and passages
-of the civil code of Louisiana, to show, that an execution, issuing
6!om a State court of Louisiana, could not have been levied upon
this property until, by some proceeding, the orders, judgments, and
sales by the parish judge of Madison had been reversed, set aside,and annulled. The drift of that argument, and the exception taken
to the answer of Ford, and the opinion of the judge in sustaining the
exception, all seeni intended to drive C. Ford into the State courts
of Louisiana, t6 seek satisfaction of his judgment rendered in the

154

SUPREME -COURT.
FQrd v. Douglas et al.

Circuit Court of the United States, to confine the process of exe.cution to the mode of proceeding under the law of that State.
To all those -arguments and citations, I reply, that the Siate of

Louisiana has rightful authdrity to regulate her own courts and
modes of executing their judgments, bt has no rightful authority to
regulate the modes of proceeding and processes of execution of the
courts of the United States.
The jurisdiction, of the courts of the United States, and the
process of execution of their judgments and decrees, depend upon
ie constitution of the United States and the laws made by Congress in pursuance of the constitution, not upon the laws of the
States. The laws made by Congress in pursuance of the constitution "shall be the supreme law of the land, any thing in the constitution or law.' of'any State to the contrary biotwithstanding."
So the tonstitutibn of the United States (art. 6, § 2) dbelares.
Any. law of the Stat contrary to the law of the United States,
or impiedly or expressly prohibiting the execution 6f the process
of the courts of the United States within the State, in a manner
different from that prescribed by the law of the State 'to her own
courts, would be null 'and void.
The differenIces between the'process of execution of the judgments of the courts of the United States, as regulated by the laws
of the United States, and the process of execution of the judgments
of the State courts as regulated by State laws, have been the subjects of solemn argument, matred consideration, and decision in
e Supreme Court of the United States.
.,In tho cases of Wayman v. Southard, 10 'heat. 1 ; The Bank
of the United. States v.. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 54; Suydam v.
lBrodnax., 14 Peters, 67, the laws of the United States regulating
the process and mcdes of executing the judgments of the courts of
the United States.-were considered, expounded, and adjudged.
In the two former, the certificates of the decisions and mandates
expressly declare,-- " That the statutes 'of Kentucky in relation
to executions, which are certified to this court, are not applicable to
executions which issue on judgments rendered by the courts of the
United States " (10 Wheat. 50) ; " cannot operate upon, bind the
m de in which the v enditioni exponas should be enforced by the
marshal, and forbid a sule of the .laiid levied upon, unless it com
manded three fourths of its value."
10 Wheno. 65.
The decision in Suydam v. Broadnax declared, that the law of
the State of Alabama, which commanded that claims of creditors
upon an estate declared to be insolvent should be prosecuted bVefore
the commissioners appointed to manage the estate, has no binding
force whatever.on" the Circuit Courts of the United States ; and the
right of said Circuit Courts to take cognizance of. claims against
such an estate was undoubted, the statute of Alabama. to the contrary, notwithstanding. 14 Peters, 67.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

155

Ford v. Douglas et al.

The judicial &epartmient of the government of the United States,
in: relation to .the extent of its iurisdiction, the distribution of its
powers between the Supreme 'Court and the inferior courts, the
supervising power over the, decisions of tl~e State courts in specified cases, the tenur, of office of the judges, the provision for the
adequate support of the -udges; their responsibility, and the mode
of appointment, was emnstructed with great wisdom, caution, and
deliberation. Profiting by history and examples of the past, the
sages who' framed the judiciary department looked to the future with
anxious desire to preserve the Union, to maintain peace at home
and abroad, so far AS an impartial and -enlightened administration of
justice can conduce to those ends. Coisiderations of the highest
importance demand thai the supremacy of the laws of the Union,
and the judicial cognizance assigned to the courts of the United
States, shall be maintained in their full extent and proper vigor.
The jurisdiction in controversies between citizens of different
States, and in questions of conflict of State laws with the constitution and laws. of the United States, forms an important provision
for establishing justice and preserving domestic tranquility. Past
experience of "fraudulent laws, which had been passed in too many
of the States s before -the federal constitution was proposed,
taught the framers of that compact to apprehend that the spirit
which had produced those would, in future, produce like instances,
or assume new shapes with like eil. tmdencies ; therefore the constitution established particular guards :against such evils, one of
'which is the jurisdiction of the federal courts in controversies between citizens of different States. Multiplied instances, which have
Rccurred since, the federal constitution was adopted, attested by
the records of this court, prove but too well that'the apprehensions
of ihe framers of the constitution were not idle, nor their foresight
and prudent provisions for arresting the evils unprofitable.
It. Upon the bill and the transcript of the proceeding in the parish
court, exhibited thereby to make title to the property claimed- by
the complainants, now appellees, by their own showing they havg'
not the title to the property.
They, said Emeline and Archibald, were in a fiduciary capacity,
the one as tutrix (or guardian), the other sub-tutor (or under-guardian), and thereford not capable in law to become purchasers at
those sales.
The purchase money was not paid ; no possession was delivered;
the whole contrivances of debts claimed against the estate of her
testator, the judgments in favor of Stephen Douglas and of said
Emeline, respectively, were false, fraudulent, and covinous ; the
sales and pretended, purchases were shams, simulations, deceitful,
illegal, and passed no title to the said Emeline and Archibald.
Upon this point I cite the case decided at the last term of this
court. Michoud et al. v. Girod et al., 4 Howard, 553-555, &c.

156

SUPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas et al.

That opinion is drawn with such perspicuity, research, and demonstration, that nothing is left to be supplied by me.
It is of itself an example of overhauling and relieving against the
iniquities committed by the court of pirobate and parish court of
Louisiana, in proceedings similar to those of the parish court of
Madison relied on by the complainant.
The. incapacity of the tutor, or guardian, to purchase at such a
sale is one of the points adjudged in that case.
I have labored this case because of the yalue in-controversy, but
more on account of the cohsequences in all time to come, for good
or for evil, which hang upon the decision of this appeal in this way
or in that. Many things I have said which might perhaps-have been
well omitted. Some things I have intentionally omitted which might
have been said, which will be supplied by the intelligence of the
court. But, ex dictis, et ex non dictis, I pray the decree of this
court for the appellant; that the injunction be dissolved and the
bill dismissed, so that the appellant may have execution of his judgments.
M
.. .Meredith, for the appellees.
Upon the faets disclosed by the record, the counsel for the appellees, in the oral argument which he had the honor of addressing
to the court, when the case was called in its order upon the calendar
at the present term, submitted two propositions which he respectfIly insisted were fully sustained by an ufiiform series of decisions
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,'establishing them as fixed rules
of.property in that State. They were the following :1. Tlhat the appelleesr, at the time the*executions were levied,
were possessed of the property seized, under and by virtue of ju
dicial sales, translative of title, as by public and authentic act.
2. That the appellees being so possessed the appellant had no
right, on a suggestion of fraud, to treat the proceedings of the probate court as null and void, and cause, his executions to be levied on
the property; but that the fraud alleged by him could only be inquired into .inan actionito set aside the sales,*xinder which the appellees claimed the possession and title ;.in which, if he should succeed, the property would become liable to the operation of his
judgments. Until when, the appellees had a right to be protected
y injunction in the possession and enjoyment of the property.
I. Upon the first proposition, as to the legal effect of the adjudications of the prolate sales upon the title and possession, the counsel for the appellees referred to the following decisions :- Zanico
v. Habine, 5 Martin's Rep. 372 ; 1 Condensed Rep. 384 ; Bushnell v. Brown, 8 Mart. Rep. (New Series), 157 ; 4 Cond. Rep.
.466 ;, Marigny v. Nivet, 2 Louisiana Rep. 498; De Ende v.
Moore, -2 Mart. Rep. (N. S.) 336 ; 2 Cord. Rep. 675 ; La Fon's
Executors v. Phillips, 2 Martin, (N. S.) 25 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 644.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

157,

Ford v. Douglas et al.

These cases all coiaeur to show that in ju icial sales the pra.w
verbal is sufficient evidence of title; and that neither deed from the
officer making the satle, nor act under the. signatures of the parties,
is necessary to perfect it. Such indeed are the express provisions
of the Civil Code, See articles 2)586, 2,594, 2,601. •
Further, the adjudication, being by public and authentic act, was
complete evidence of delivery and possession, where there was no
adverse' possession at the time- of the sale. Such a possession is
*no where alleged or sugested in this case, and could not indeed
have'existed, because al the parties in interest were before the
court when the decrees were made by the court -of probates, as ippears by the transcript of the record exhibited with the bill. The
bill itself avers that the appellees were in possession long before the
issuing bf the exequtions ; and the only -denial of the tnswer im as
to the 'lawfulness of the. possessio.n
Upon this point, the case of
Fortin v. Blount, 1 Martin, (N. S.) 179, 2 Cond. Rep: 429, was
referred to.
The first proposition then appeared to be clearly sustained underthe Louisiana jurisprudence ; that'is to say-, that the appellees were
in possession of the property upon which the appellant's executions
were levied by adjudications which passed the tide to them.
H. The second proposition, it was contended, was equally clear
upon authorities. It is held 'as settled, in the courts of Louisiana,
that no man can take the- law into his owh hands, and, ex mero nolu,
undertake to render himself justice; that-, however good his title
may be, he °cannot 'take -possession of property without form of
law ; and that the courts will not, in a possessory action, investigate
his title, but will restore the possession, and leave him to his petitory action. It is equally well settled, that what one cannot- do by
himself, he shall not b. permitted to do through the instrumentality
of a mere ministerial officer, - such as a sheriff oi marshal, - acting under his directions and orders, and under pretence of judicial
authority, disturbing third parties in'the possession and enjoyment
of their property, leaving them to.the uncertain and inadequate remedy of action for the trespass, against the officers, or to follow the
execution creditor, perhaps into a distant State, in qust of satisfaction. If such creditor believes that the title of the party in p9ssession is founded in fraud, and that the property is liable to his
execution, the law imposes upon him the duty of bringing his rtvocatory action to annul the title and subject it to the satisfaction
of his judgment. This he is bound to do first; he cannot foxestall or provoke the inquiry by a seizure 'under execution ; and
should he *attempt to do so, the courts will enjoin the proceeding.
This principle has its foundation in the Roman arid Spanish laws,
and has been the established jurisprudence in Louisiana from the
, earliest period, and is free from all doubt and conflicting decisions.
It imposes no hardship on the plaintiff in the execution, because a
VOL.- V.
14

158

SUPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas et ah

revocatory action for cause of fraud is one of the plainest and most
simple remedies im practice in the courts of that State; in which,
if the plaintiff succeeds, the sale ii avoided, and the property restored and, subjected to his claim. In such an action the parties
are entitled to a jury. If the judgment be in a court of the United
States, and the creditor prefer that jurisdiction, it is submitted
that a bill on the equity side would afford every relief that his case
could require.
In support of this proposition and these views, the counsel" for
the appellees referred to the following decisions :- St. Avid v.
Wiemprender's Syndics, 9 Martin, 648 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 39 ; Barbarin v. Saucier, 5 Martin, (N. S.) 361; 3 Cond. Rep. 577 ;
Henry v. Hyde, 5 Martin, (N. S.) 633; 3 Cond. Rep. 689 ;

eet

Morgan, 6 Martin,

S.) 137; 3 Cond. Rep. 780;

Yocum v. Bullitt, 6-Martin, (N.S 324; 3 Cond. Rep. 858 ;
Trahan v. McMannus, .2 Louis. R. 214; Childress v'. Allen, 3 ibid.
479 ; Brunet v. Duvergis, 5 ibid. 126; Samory v. Herbrard, 17
ibid. 558 ; Laville v. Hebrard, 1 Robinson's Rep. 436 ; Fisher v.
Moore, 12 ibid. 98. -In Henry v. Hyde, and Yocum v. Bullitt,
above referred to, the question arose, in a case exactly' ike the one
under consideration, where property had been seized in execution,
and an injunction bad been granted to the party claiming it by purchase, from or under 'the. defendant in the execution, as the 'former owner. Indeed, injunction is the remedy expressly given by
the law of Louisiana. Code of Practice, art. 298, no. 7.
. Upon these two propositions, then, and the authorities cited, the
counsel for the appellee's cbntended that the' decree of the Circuit
Court perpetuating the injunction should be affirmed. The only
effect of such a decree being to stay the proceedings on the appellant's-executions, issued under his judgments at law, and put him to
his' direct action to annul the sales -and subject the property to
their paymenmIt .was, moreover, contended that these, being the established
principles of State jurisprudence, must be considered as rules of
property in Louisiana; and therefore, under the repeated decisions
of this court, as obligatory upon the courts of the United States
as upon the State tribunals. And for this 'were cited Q Wheat.
542 ; 12 ibid. 162 ; 6 ibid. 127 ; 7.ibid. 550 ; 8 ibid. 585, 542 ;
10 ibid. 159 ; 11 ibid. 367 ; 5Cranch, 32.; 9 ibid. 98 ; 1 Peters,
360 ; 2 Howard, 619.
These were the positions and authorities on which the counsel
for the appellees relied, in the argument before referred to. A
printed brief, however, having'since been filed, with the permission
of the court, by the cousel .for the appellant, he prays leave tb
subjoin a few additional remarks.
. The greater part of this brief consists of a very labored analysis of the record of the probate court, exhibited with the bill, with

JANUARY

TERTU, 1847.

159

Ford v. Douglas et al.

intepit to show "collusion, combination, and fraud," on the part-of
the executor of James S. Douglas and the appellees, as the purchasers of the property in controversy. Whether the learhed.dounsel has failed, or succeeded in this attempt is not material now to
consider, because such an investigation assumes the very question
now before the court ; that is to say, whether, in answer to a bill
praying.an injunction to restrain him from levying executions upon
judgments recovered against a third person, on property the title
and possession of which are alleged to be in the appellees, by purchase at a judicial sale, under decrees of a court of unquestioned
jurisdiction, it is competent to the appellant to a6er that such deftrees were procired by "collusion, combination, and fraud."
Should-this court sustain such an answer, iii such-a. proceeding, it
*is presuned that the case would, be remanded to the Circuit Court,
where the appellees will have the right, under the agreement before
referred to, to join issue bn those allegations in the answer, and, under a commission, take such testimony as they may deem expedient
or necessary.
The learned counsel has comprised big argutnent under three
general heads.
1. The first is as to the " effect of fraud in contaminating and
avoiding all proceedings and acts, as well sei-judicial as judicial,
had and done, contrived and procured, by fraud." This general.
principle is too indisputable to have needed the support of the
numerous cases cited in the brief. If, however, the learned counsel,
in stating his propo~ition, intended to apply the phrase " semijudicial" to the proceedings in-the probate court for the parihh of
M,adison, it is only necessary to .refer to article 924 of the-Code of
Practice, to show that the courts-of probate in that State hfve exclusive original jurisdiction of all matters touching the'administration
of the real and personal estates of deceased persons to a larger extent, perhaps, than the orphans' courts of any other State of the
Uni6n. Their proceedings are, in the fullest sense, judiciil, and
unless-reversed on appeal their decisions are conclusive and cannot
be impeached collaterally, except, as all judicial acts may be, upon
the ground of fraud. But though fraud vitiates all judicial proceedings, it is surely not necessary to remind the court that he who seeks
to impeach a judgment of -decree collaterally must show that he
was neither a party nor a privy to it. If he stand in either of theserelations he cannot lie permitted to allege fraud in the judgment
itself, or in the mode of proceedingby which it was procured. He
can only do it directly by motion for a new trial, or appeal,.or writ
of error. Prudham v. Phillips, Ambler, 763 ; Bush v. Sheldon, 1
.Day) 170, which was a judgment of"an orphaus' court; Peck v.
Woodbridge, 3 Day, 30, are among the numerous cases upon this
oint, collected in 3 Cowen's Phillips on Evidence, 854, note 610.
tis admitted that there is no such limitation upon the operation .of-

160

StJPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas et al.

the general principle, where the party alleging the fraud is a stranger
to the judgmeit he assails; because he has no power to reverse
such judgment by appeal. But in this ease the appellant was 't
party to all the proceedings in the probate court. The law of
Louisiana makes all creditors of deceased persons parties to such
proceedings. It is not necessary that they should be specially. cited
or summoned, - a general notice is all that is required ; and the
record proves that notice by.advertisement was given by the judge
of probates, at every stage of the proceedings, conformably to the
law and practice of the State. De Ende v. Moore, 2 Martin, (N.
S.) 336; 2 Cond. Rep. 679 ; La Fon's Exedutors v. Phillip ,
ibid. 225 ; ibid. 644 ;. Ancieuse v. Dugs, 3 Robinson, 453.
But further, the appellant was not merely a party in contemplation of law, but an actor in these proceedings. The record shows
that on the 3d of May, 1844, he appeared by counsel, alleging himself a creditor, and filed an "1opposition "i to the homologation of
the several accounts of the executoi, averring them to be entirely
incorrect and illegal,, and praying that they might be disallowed, and
that the executor should be ordered to file an amended account in
which the appellant'ought to be placed as a creditor for the arount
of his judgments in the Circuit Court. But lie'neglect'd to support
his opposition by any evidence whatever, and the court very properly overruled and dismissed it with costs. It is true that the
appellant, in his answer, states that the attorney had no instruetions
or authority to file such a petition ; and the attorney himself ae.
knowledges that fa6t. -Had this disavowal been made in the probate court in proper time, supported by affidavit, the court no doubt
would have noticed it. JBut surely it cannot be contended that it
can now be made, in a collateral proceeding, and before a different
tribunal. In-contemplation of law, therefore, and-in point of fact,
the appellant was a party to the proceedings, fr6m which he took n"
appeal, though the law allowed him one, but by his executions 'attempted, in the language of one of the cases, "to seize at once, and
by short hand," property which in the progress 6f thosu- proceedings the appellees had purchased under the sanction of judicial d&-'
crees. If he had .taken an appeal it would hav'e been cobmpetent for
him to allege the frauds of. which he now complains, and, establish.
ing themby proof, to set aside the whole proceedings. But that
he cannot do collaterally, as he has attempted-in his answer.
Itmay be remarked, that the appellant instituted his suits in the
'Circuit Qourt; after the letters testamentary'had been granted by the
court of probates to Stephen Douglas, which was on 'the .26th of
-May;' 1838; at'all events, the-judgments were subsequent to the
grant.bf the letterg.: Why did he seek the.jdtrisdictidn of the Circuit
"Coa t ?" Not from isnordnce,-bCcause:he-states in his answer, that
he "bhd expressly ordered hiJs agent toavoid the Stats courts altogether,' foP reasons .suftiien4i and to sue in'the federal courts

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

161

Ford v. Pouglas et al.

only." What reasons ? The jurisdiction of the probate courts of
Louisiana has been shown, and it is so exclusive that it has been
repeatedly decided by the Supreme -Court of that State, that
creditors have no right to enforce their claims by action in any other
forum. De Ende v. Moore, 2 Martin, (N. S.) 336 ; 2 Cond.
Rep. 675-; La Fon's Executors v. Phillips, ibid. 225 ; ibid. .644;
and for this just and obvious reason, that such a right would have
a tendency to defeat one of the great objects of all testamentary
systems, an equal distribution of assets among all the creditors of
the decedent. This was, exactly -what the appellant most desiied
to avoid. It was to overreach the other creditors, - to obtain
more than his jusi dividend at their expense, - that, in fraud of the
law of the State, he brought his suits in the Circuit Court.. If
he fails in the attempt, the consequences are of his own seeking.
But he has still a locus penitentiw, for, by the Civil Code of
Louisiana' articles 1060, 1061,, creditors who omit or neglect to
present their-claims are entitledleven after final distribution, to an
equal dividend with those who have been more diligent ; to be
made up by contribution from the legatees in the first instance, and
if there are none, or the anont of legacies be ins'utfficient, then by
the creditors who have been paid, so as to put all upon equality.
.2. The second proposition of the counsel for the appellant may
b safely assented to, The plenary power of the courts of the
United States to carry into execution and full effect theirjudgm'ents
and decrees is unquestioned. Nor has any attempt been made, in
this case, to "remit or refer" the judgments recovered by the appellant against the executor 6f James S. Douglas to the tribunals of
the State of Louisiana for. execution or satisfaction 4 or to intetfere with the' rightfil jurisdiction of the Circuit:Court over thosejudgments ; or to claim that it should be regulated by any other process or execution than 'that which is prescribed by the .laws of the
United States for their courts. The appellees do not deny that the
writs of fieri f4cias issued regularly upon the judgments, and that
the marshal acted regularly in the performance of .his duty, according to their mandate. Their only .cornplaint is, that-in obedience, not
to the writs, but to the orders and directi6ns of the appellant, the
marshal has seized and taken in execution their property, instead of
the,-property of the defendant in the judgments ; and their only
claim is to have the question of property tried by the law of -Louisiana ; not before the tribunals of that State, if the appellant should
prefer the forum which he at fint selected ; but if in that forqrm, by
the law of that State, which, as it-has been shown, does not permit
a party to take property.in, execution, claimed by a third person,
upon a suggestion or allegation of fraud, without first establisbing
the fraud by judicial decision. This the appellees respectfully insist, that they have -a clear right to ask, under the provision of the
thirty-fourth section of the judiciary act of 1789, in the exposition
14".

162

SUPREME COU'T;
Ford -v. Douglas et al.

of which Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion of the
court in Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 25, and speaking of
jUdgments in the courts of the.United States, puts the very case in
the following words :-- " If an officer take the -property of A. to
satisfy ah execution'against B., and a suit be brought by A., the
question of property must depend entirely on the law of the State."
3. It is lastly contended, 'that the appellees were incapable in
law of becoming the purchasers of the property they now claim
and that, therefore, no titld passed to them. undev the sales made in
virtue of the two decrees of the court of probates. This'incapacity, it is said, arose from the fact, that Emeline Douglas, who has
since intermarried with Maxwell W. Bland; was at that time the
tutrix of her minor children, aid that Archibald Douglas, the other
purchaser, was their under-tutor, by the appointment of the court
of probates. This ti record itself shows, and is admitted.
It is, undoubtedly, a' general rule that all qui negotia aliena gerunt are incapable of purchasing, for their own- benefit, property in
which -those they represent are interested. And this not on theground of fraud, but because the law will not allow one, sustaining
the character of an agent, to create in himself an interest opposite
to that of his principal. And it is admitted that this i'ule has been
applied to executors, administrators, trustees,, guardiafis, tutors,
curators, judicial officers,' and all other persons, who, in any rspect,
*as agents, have a concern in the disposition and sale of the property of others, whether the sale is public or private, or judicial, bona
fide, or fraudulent in point of fact.
But this rule is not inflexible. Where it is for the interests of
the parties concerned, a court will permit a person, standing.in any
of those relations, to become a purchaser. And, therefore, it has
been frequently held that a purchase made.by a'trustee, under judicial sanction and approbation, was not on that ground to be questioned or set aside. Campbell v. Walkei, 5 Vesey, jr. 678: Prevost
v. Gratz, 1 Peters, C. C. Rep. 368 ; Jackson v. Woolsey, 11
Johns. 446 ; Gallatin v. Cunningham, 8 Cowen, 361. ,
So in Louisiana, where the general rule unquestionably prevaifs,,
it has been expressly held that a mother, being tutrix of minor
heirs, might lawfully become a purchaser at, a probate sale of property belonging to her deceased husband's succession, if sanctioned
by the judge within whose jurisdiction the minors have been
brought; and that this sanction may be given before or after the
sale. McCarty v. Steam Cotton Press C~mpany, 5 Louisiana
Rep. 16, 20.
Now the record in this case shows that both sales were preceded by family meetings, to deliberate and advise touching the interests of the minors ; that they recommended the. sales as necessary and expedient; that their proceedings were homologated by
the judge, who thereupon ordered and decreed the sales to be

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

163

Ford v. Douglas et al.

made ; that the property was appraised by sworn appraisers ; notice
of the time and place of sale regularly given ; and,- finally, that the
sales were made by the judge of probates, ex officio, and. in person,
and by him struck off and adjudicated to the two appellees by
name, they being the actual and highest bidders for prices above
the appraisements. There can be no doubt,- therefore, that both
purchases were made with the knowledge, approbation, and sanction
of the court of probates, and were recognized as valid in the subsequent proceedings of the succession; and, on the authority of the
decision above referred 'to, were valid by tle law of Louisiana,
which, of course, must be obligatory in this case apon every other
tribunal.
But further, if there had been no such judicial sanction, it is not
competent to the appellant to make the objection. A purchase by
a trustee, or other fiduciary, is not absolutely void, but voidable
only. The heirs in this case are the cestui que trusts, and it is
their right, and not the right of the appellant, who js, a creditor
only, and a creditoi who has renounced all benefit under these mortuary proceedings, to call in question, or set aside, the sales made
to the appellees. 'Winchester v. Cain, 1 Robinson, 421 ; Prevost
v. Gratz, 1 Peters, C. C. Rep. 368 ; Wilson v. Troup, 2 Cow
en, 195, 238 ; Opininn of Sutherland, J.; Davoue v. Faning, 2
Johns. Ch.Rep. 252 ; Jackson v. Woolsey, 11 Johns. 446 ; Harrington v. Brown, 5 Pick. 519 ; Defin v. McKnight, 6 Halst. 385;
Gallatin v. Cunningham, 8 Cowen, 379, per Colden, 'Senator.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States, held in and for the Eastern District of the State of
Louisiana.
The complainants below, the appellees.here, filed their bill against
Christopher Ford, the appellant, and Rqbertson, the marshal of
the district, for the purpose of obtaining injunctions to stay proceedings upon the several judgments and executions, which Ford had recovered in the Circuit Court of the United States against one Stephen Douglas, as executor of J. S. Douglas, deceased.
The judgments amounted to some'$ 18,000, and the marshal had
levied upon two plantations, and'the slaves thereon, of which the
testator, J. S. Douglas, had died seizel and possessed.
The bill set forth.that Stephen Douglas, against whom the judgments had been recovered, neither in his own right nor as execlutor
of J. S. Douglas, deceased, had any title to or interest in the plantations and slaves which had been seized under and by virtue of the
*said executions ; and that the same formed no part or portion of the
succession of the testator in the hands of the said executors to be
administered. But that the whole of the said plantations and slaves,
including the crops of cotton, -and all other things thereon, were

164

SUPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas et al.

the true and lawful property of the complainants ; that they were
in the lawful possession of the same, and had been for a long time
before the issuing of the executions and seizure complained of ; and
had acquired the said property, and the title theretd, at a probate
sale of all the property belonging to the estate and succession of the
said testator, - which sale was lawfully made, and vested in the
complainants a good and valid title. All which would appear by
the proces verbal of the said- adjudications, and the mortuary, proceedings annexed to and forming a part of the bill.
An injunction was granted, in pursuance of the prayer of the bill,
staying all proceedings on the judgments rendered in the three several suits, and also on the executions issued thereon against the property.
Christopher Ford, the adjudged creditor, in answer to the bill,
denied the validity of the probate sales of the plantations and slaves
to the complainants ; and charged that they were effected, and the
pretended title thereto acquired, by fraud and covin between the executor, Stephen Douglas, and the executrix, the widow of the tes-.
tator, and one of the complainants, for the purpose of hindering
and defrauding the creditors of the estate ; that in furtherance of
this design a large amount of simulated and fraudulent claims of
the executor and executrix were presented against the guccession,
to wit, $ 53,000 and upwards in favor of the former, and $ 76,000
and upwards in fa-or of the latter, which were received and allowed
by the probate, court without 'ny vouchers or legal evidence o f
the genuineness of the debts against the estate ; that- these simulated and fraudulent claims were 'made 'the foundation of an application to the said probate court for an order to sell the two plantations, and slaves thereon, under whom the widow and one Archibald Douglas became the purchasers at the probate sale; that
neither had paid any part of the purchase-money to the executor or
probate court ; and which was the only' title of the complainants
to the property in question, upon which the -defendant had caused
the executions to be levied.
In confirmation of the fraud, thus alleged in the probate sales in
the parish of Madison and State of Louisiana, the defendant further
charges, that the testator died seized and possessed, also, of a large
plantation and slaves and personal property therein situate in the
county of Claiborne and State of Mississippi, inventoried at upwards of $ 70,000, besides notes and accounts to the amount of
$ 161,000 and upwards, that the said plantations and slaves were,
on application of Stephen Douglas, the executor, to the probate
court in that State, and an order for that purpose obtained, sold, and
purchased in by the widow and executrix for about the sum of
$40,000, and that the personal estate of $ 161,000 and upwards,
of notes and accounts, were not, and have not been, accounted for
by the-executor to the court of probate.

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

165

Ford v. Douglas et al.

In short, according to the answer of the defendant, the estate
and successiop of the deceased debtor, inventoried at about the
sum of $300,000, and for aught that appears available to that
amount, has been sold and transferred through the instrumentality
and agency of family connections, under color of proceedings apparently in due form in the prbbate court, into the hands of the
widow and a brother of the deceased, without adequate consideration, if consideration at all, and with the intent to hinder, delay,
and defraud the creditors of the estate, and particularly the defendant.
The complainants excepted to the answer filed by the defendant,
because the matters and doings set forth therein could not, in law,
be inquired into in the present suit, or proceedings instituted by the
said complainants, and prayed that they might have the benefit of
their injunction, and that it might be made perpetual.
And thereupon it was agreed that the-case might be set down for
argument on the matters of law arising on the bill and answer,; and
that if the judgment of the court in matters of law. should be for the
defendant, the complainants might join issue on the fact, and testimony be taken in the usual manner.
The court, after argument of counsel, decreed that the exception
of the complainants to the defendant's answer was well taken, and
gave leave to answer over, which was declined ; and, therefore, the
court adjudged and decreed that the injunction theretofore awarded
in the case should be made perpetual ; and it was further adjudged
and decreed that complainants recover the costs of suit, without
prejudice to the right of the defendant to any action he might think
proper.
The decision of the court below, and the view which we -havetaken of the case here, do not inu-olve the question, whether the
matters set forth in the answer sufficiently established the fact that a
fraud had been committed by the comp}ipLnants against creditors, in
the several sales and transfers of the property in question, through
the instrumentality of the probate court, nor, as it respects the
effect of the fraud, if established, upon the title derived under
these sales. If the case depended upon the decision of these
questions, we entertain little doubt as to the judgment that should
be given.
The ground of the decision below, and of the argument here, is,
that the complainants were not bound to answer the allegations of
fraud against their title, in the aspect. in wrhich the case was presented to the court ; that a title derived under a public sale, in due
form of law, by the probate judge, protected them in the full and
peaceable possession and enjoyment of the property until the conveyance was vacated and set aside by a direct proceeding instituted
for that purpose; and that this step, on the part of the judgment
creditors, was essential, upon the established law of the State of

166

SUPREME COURT.
Ford v. Douglas

et al.

Louisiana, before he could subject the property to the satisfaction
of his judgment.
We have, accordingly, looked into the law of that State on this
subject, and find the principle contended for well settled and uniformly applied by its courts in cases like the present. The judgment creditor is not permitted to treat a conveyance from the
defendant in the judgment made by authentic act, or in pursuance
of a judicial sale of the succession by a probate judge, as null and
void, and to seize and' sell the property which had thus passed to
the vendee. The law requires that he should bring an action to set
the alienation aside, and succeed in the same, before be can levy his
execution. And so firmly settled and fixed is this principle in the
jurisprudence of Louisiana, as a rule of. property, and as administered in the courts of that State,-that even if the sale and conveyance
by authentic act, or in pursuance of a judicial sale, are confessedly
fraudulent and void, still no title passes to a purchaser under the
judgment and execution, not a creditor of the vender, so as to
enable him to attack the conveyance and obtain possession of the
property. .Ineffect the sale, if permitted to take place, is null and
void, and passes no tile. Henry v. Hyde, 5 Martin, (N. S.) 633;
Yocum v. Bullitt, 6 ibid. 324 ; Peet v. Morgan, 6 ibid. 137;
Childres v. Allen, 3 Louisiana Rep. 477; Brunet v. Duvergis,
5 ibid. 124 ; Samory v. Hebrard et al., 17 ibid. 558.
The-case cf Yocum v. Bullitt et al., among many above referred
to, is like the one before us.
The court there say :-- " The record shows that the slaves bad
been conveyed by the defendant in the execution by a sale under
the private signature recorded in the office of the parish judge of
St. Landry, where the sale was, made. If the sale was fraudulent
it must be regularly set aside by a suit 'instituted for that purpose ;
that it was not less a sale and binding upon third parties until declared null in an action which the law gives (Curia Phil. Revocatoria, n. 2) ; that the possession of the vendee was a legal one, until
avoided in due course of law." The court further remarked,
that -" The same point had been' determined at the preceding
term, in which it had been held that a conveyance alleged to be
fraudulent could not be tested by the seizure of the property or estate belonging to the vender, but an action must be brought to aniul
the conveyance."
The principle runs through all the cases in the books of reports
in that State, and has its foundation in thpe Civil Code (art. 1965,
1973, 1984), and in the Code of Practice (§ 3, art. 298, 301, 604,
60!7), and in Stein v.Gibbons &-'Irby (16 Louisiana Rep. 103).
And from the course of decision on the subject it is to be regarded
not merely as a rule of practice, or mode of proceeding in the enforcement of civil rights, which *ould not be binding, upon this
court, but as a rule of property that affects the title and estate of'

JANUIARY TERM, 1847.

167

Ford v. Douglas et al.

the vendee, and cannot, therefore, be dispensed with without disturbing one of the securities upon which the rights of property

depend. It gives strength and stability to its possession and enjoyment, by forbidding'the violation of either, except upon legal proceedings property instituted for the purpose. Neither can be
disturbed, except.by judgment of law. For this purpose ' the appropriate action is given, providing for the secession of all contriacts, 'as well as for revoking all judgments when founded in fraud
of the rights of creditors.
In this court, a bill filed' in the equity code is the appropriate
remedy to set aside the conveyance. In the present case a. cross
bill should have been filed, setting forth the matters contained in
the answer of the defendant. The vendees would then have had
an -opportunity "t answer the allegations of fraud charged in the bill,
and, if denied, the parties could have gone to their proofs, and the
case disposed of upon the merits.
It is said that in some of the western States an answer like the
one in question would be regarded by their courts in the nature of a
cross bill, upon which t6-found' proceedings for the "purliose of
setting aside the fraudulent conveyance. But the practice in this
court is otherwise, -and more in conformity with the established
course of proceeding in a court of equity.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the appellant mistook his rights
in attempting to raise the question of fraud in the probate sales in
his answer to the injunction bill ; and that instead thereof he should
have filed a cross bill, and have thus instituted a direct proceeding
for the purpose of settik0 aside the sales and subjecting the property
to his judgments and executions ; and that in this respect, and to
this extent, the decree of the court below was correct.
But on looking into the decree, 'we are apprehensive that it has
been carried further than the assertion of the principle which we are
disposed to uphold, and which may seriously embarrass the appellant in the pursuit of a xemedy that is yet clearly open: to him.
The injunction issued, on filing the .bill of complainants, commanded the appellant to desist from all further proceedings on, his
three judgments, or on the executions issued against the, property ;
anld the court; on the coming in of the answer, has decr~ed that the
same be made perpetual. And further, that the complainants recover the costs of suit, without prejudice to the right of the defendant to any action he may think proper.
It is at least a matter of dubt, and might be of litigation hereafter, uhether, upon the broad. and absolute terms of the decree
'used in enjoining the proceedings, the party is not concluded from
further proceedings against the property in question5 founded upon
these judgments Pnd executions.
They must constitute the foundation of his right and title,..upon
filing'a cross, bill, to any relief, that he may hereafter show himself

168

SUPREME COURT.
Gear v. 'Parish.

entitled to. The saving clause may not be regarded as necessarily
leaving a proceeding of this description open to him. A question
might also be raised, whether the' judgments are not so effectually
enjoined, as to prevent their enforcement againsf property of the
judgment debtor not in controversy in this suit. At all events,
we 'think it due to the appellant, and to justice, looking at the
nature and character of the transaction and proceeding as developed
in te'pleadings, that the case should be cleared of all doubts and
dispute upon this point. We shall, therefore, reverse the decree,
and remit the proceedings to the court below, with direction that all
further proceedings on the three judgments and executions be stayed,
as it respects the property Seized and in question, but that the appellant have liberty to file a cross bill, and take such further proceedings thereon as he may be advised.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed,
with costs, and that this cause be and the 'same is hereby remanded
to the aid Circuit Court, with directions to that court that all further proceedings on the tbree judgments and executions be stayed, as
it respects the property seized and in question ; but that the appellant have liberty to file a cross bill, and to take such further proceedings thereon as he may be advised ; and that such further proceedings be had in this cause, in conformity to the opinion*of this
cour.t, as to law and justice shall appertain.

HEzEKiu

H.

GtAR, APPELLANT, V. THONAS J. PARIsH.

In this case, the pleadings and proofs show that a mortgage executed by the'debtor
to the creditor was really for an unascertained balance of accounts, which the sum
named in the mortgage was supposed to be sufficient to cover.
'As it did not prove to be sufficient, and the creditor obtained a judgment against the
debtor for the residue, the payment of the sum named in the mortgage was no
reason for an injunction to stay proceedings upon the judgment.
THIS was an appeal from the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Wisconsin, sitting as a court of.chancery.
Parish filed a bill in the District Court of Iowa County, Territory of Wisconsin, for the purpose of compelling Gear to enter
satisfaction of a certain mortgage executed by the former to 'him, or
to reconvey the premises therein, charging, that it had been'fully
paid and satisfied ; and for the purpose, also, of a perpetual stay of

