JANUARY TERM, 1847.
Pepper et al. v.

51

Dunlsp et al.

Before a party can be made responsible for the acts and declarations of another, there must be legal evidence of his authority to act
in the matter.
The counsel for the defendants ask the court to revise the judgment of the court below, rendered upon the demurrer to the rejoinders
of the defendants to the plaintiffs' amended replication, overruling
the demurrer, insisting that the rejoinder was good, and that judgment
should have been rendered for the'defendants.
The answer to this is, that the withdrawal of the demurrer, and
going-to issue upon the pleading, operated as a waiver of. the judgment.
If the detendants had intended to have a review of that judgment on
a writ of error, they should have refused to amend the pleadings, and
have permitied the judgment on the demurrer to stand.
Another ground upon which the judgment must be reversed is, that
a judgment for costs was rendered against the plaintiffs. The United
States are not liable for costs,
Some other points were made in the course of the trial, but it is
unimportant to notice them.
Judgment of the court below reversed, with a ienire de novo.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause- be and the same is hereby remanded-to the said Circuit Courtwith directions to award a venire
faciasde novo.

JAMEs PEPPER, SABAH H. EvANs, GE0RGE MCCULLOUGH, AND LOUISA

MCCULLOUGH, PrAIN rFs ix ERRoR, v. HUGH W. DuNaF, CURATOR,
&C., AND HIS WIFE,
Where a perpetual injunction was granted by a subordinate State court, and, upon
appeal, the highest State court decided that the party in whose fbvor the injunc-tion had been-granted was entitled to relief, and therefore remanded the case to
the same subordinate court from which it had come for further proceedings, this
is not such a final decree ds can be reviewed by this court.
The writ of error must be dismissed, on motion.

THIS case was brought by writ of error, under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana.

52

SUPREME COURT.
Pepper et al. v. Dunlap et al.

JIr. Crittenden,moved to dismiss, the writ for, want of jurisdiction
in tjNs court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, delivered the opinion of ihe court.,
This case is brought here by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana; and a motion is made to dismiss it for
want of jurisdiction in this court.
It is unnecessary to state, at length, the proceedings in the State
courts, because it is'evident that the decree of the Supreme Court
of the State was not a final, ohe. And as the case must-be dismissed
on that ground, the other objections to the jurisdiction of this court
which were taken in the argument need not be examined.
. It appears from the record, that the defendants in error' obtained
a decree in the District Court of Louisiana for the Ninth Judicial
District, for a perpetual injunction, staying all further proceedings
upon .an order of seizure and sale of certain lands and other property
mentioned in the proceedings, which before that time had been
.issued by the said District Court upon the petition of the present
plaintiffs in error. Fromo this decree an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of the State; and at the hearing in that court itwas
decided that the present defendants in error, in whose favor te injunction had'been granted, were entitled to relief for a large portion
of their claim. The decree specifies sundry items which'ought to
be deducted from the claim -of the plaintiffs in error, amounting to a
very large sum; but states that the evidence before the court did Kot
enable it to decide finally upon the rights of the parties, and especially upon the amount which the defendants in error were bound in
equity to, refund to the plaintiffs. And the court, therefore, decreed
that the judgment of the District Court, grantiig a perpetual hijunction, should be avoided and reversed ; and remanded the case to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion
expressed in this decree.
This is the decree brought here by the wiit of error. It is
evidently not a final one, and the writ of error must therefore be
dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, holding sessions
for the Western District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, and it appearing to the court here that.
the judgment of the said Supreme Court is not a final one, it is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged by this court that this writ of
error be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdictioni

