JANUARY TERM, 1847.

121

Mayberry v. Thompson.

cise no appellate power unless it is conferred by act of Congress,
the writ of error in this case must be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United. States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. Ozi consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

JACOB S. MAYBERRY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAi
DEFENDiNr.

s H. THomSON,

Under ttie acts of 1839, chap. 20 (5 Statutes at Large, 315), and 1840, chap. 43
5 Statutes at Large, 392), where a case was cared from the District Court
or the Middle District of Alabama to the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Alabama, and the Circuit Court reversed the judgment of the District Court,
it was not a proper mode of proceeding to bring the case to this court upon such
reversal.
The judgment of'the District Court having been reversed, the plaintiff should have
taken the necessary steps to bring his case to a finq1decision in the Circuit Court,
in the same manner as if the. suit had been originally brought there. This court
could then have reexamined the judgment of the Circuit Court, if a'writ of error
were sued out.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama.
It was originally brought by Mayberry in the District Court of
the United States for the Middle District of Alabama. Mayberry
was a citizen of Mississippi:
The action was brought at the May term, 1841, and was an action of trespass to "recover damages from Thompson, for forcibly
taking, seizing, and carrying away certain goods, wares, and merchandise of the plaintiff, at Warsaw, in Sumter county, Alabama.
At the November term, 1842, the cause came on for trial, when
the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed his damages
at $ 3,709.94. On the trial, the defendant's counsel filed the following bill of exceptions.
Be it remembered, that, in the trial of this cause, the plaintiff in
the first instance introduced testimony tending to show that some
time in February or March, 1841, he sent cotton and drafts to Mobile, and received the proceeds thereof, about $ 3,200, and that he
went with the same, and with letters of recommendation, to the city
of New York, for the purchase of' goods, and there purchased
sundry bills of goods, of different houses, for which he paid to each
house about one half of the price of each purchase in money, the
proceeds of the cotton: and drafts aforesaid, and gave his own notes
VOL. V.
11

122

SUPREME COURT.
Mayberry v. Thompson.

to said several houses for the residue of the purchase money, maturing at different dates, which said notes still remain unpaid, and

that the sellers of said goods knew no persons, in the transaction
except the plaintiff ; that said goods were marked in the name of
the plaintiff, and sent.forward to his address for Cooksville, in the
State of Mississippi, but that-before reaching their destination, they
wete seized by the defendant 5 at Warsaw, in the State of Alabama,
and by him sold.
The defendant then introduced testimony, conducing to show
that a fraudulent and collusive arrangement had been entered into
between the plaintiff and one James Randalls, some time in June,
1840, for the purpose of screening the property of said Randalls
from claims of his creditors, by which a certain stock of goods and
'other property, which said Randalls thdn had, were collusively
passed to said plaintiff, and the business of said Randalls thereafter,
until after the seizure of said goods by defendant, was carried on in
the name of said plaintiff; but that said business, including the
sending of said cotton and drafts to Mobile, the raising of said
-money, and the purchase of said goods in New York, though done
ostensibly by said plaintiff, and in his -name, was really done by said
Randails, acting by and through said plaintiff, and in his, the plaintiff's, name, and that said goods, seized and sold by the defendant,
were by him seized and sold as an officer on process in hig hands
against said Randalls, as his, the said Randalls's, property, and for
his debts ; and also that the plaintiff had little or no cotton at or
about the time said cotton was forwarded to Mobile as aforesaid.
The plaintiff then introduced the said Randalls as a-witness, and
asked him tte single question, whether he had interest in said goods
seized, at the time they were seized and sold ; -to which question the
witness answered that he had not. The defendant then, on crossexamination, for the purpose bf contradicting said Randalls by the
testimony of other witnesses, if he answered in the negative, and
thus impeaching his testimony, inquired of him whether he had
stated to an individual, at about the time said cotton w~s sent to
Mobile, that he, the said Randalls, had succeeded in sending cotton
to Mobile, so that the same had not been attached ; but the plaintiff's counsel objected to the witness answering the question, and'the
court ruled that the inquiry was of matter 'collateral and irrelevant,
and that the witness need not answer the question propounded, and
he did not ansver the same. The defendant, also, for the same
purpose last expressed, proposed to inquire of said Randalls,
-vhether he had not stated to a certain individual, at or about- the
time said plaintiff left for New York, for the purchase of said goods,
that he, the said-Randalls, had sent said plaintiff for goods ; but it
was ruled by the court that it would not be competent 'for the
defendant to discredit said witness by -9howing that he "had made
statements when ot.t of court, and not on oath, different from

JANUARY TERM. 1847.

123

Mayberry v. Thompson.

hiJ testimony given m' court; and the question was not permitted
to be put.
The court insfructed the jury, that if they believed that the 'goods
purchased by the plaintiff in New York were purchased with the
money of the said- Randalls, and that the plaintiff acted merely as a
shield for said Randalls, to protect the said goods from Randalls's
creditors, that the said goods were to be considered as the goods
of Raiidalls, and were lawfully'attached by the defendant on an execution against Randalls ; but that when the goods were purchased
for said .Randalls in part with the money of Randalls, and in part
upon the credit of plaintiff, he giving his note to the several New
York mercantile houses frqm which the purchases were made, and
they being ignorant of any fraud between the plaintiff and said Randalls, then the said goods thus purchased could not lawfully be sold
by the defendant on execution against said Randalls ; that the
reinedy of creditors of Randalls, when the goods were- purchased in
part with the money of Randalls, and in Part upon credit of plaintiff, was in a court of equity, where the interest of all concerned
might be apportioned and'adjusted.
The defendant thereupon requested the court to iustruct the
jury, that if they should find for the plaintiff, they might, in making
up their verdict, deduct from the amount the money and lawful interest thereon, in all cases where said goods were purchased in part
with the money of Randalls, and in part upon the credit of the
plaintiff; which charge the court refused to give.
And the defendants took 6xception to the beforementioned ruling and charge of the court, and the refusal to charge as requested,
and prayed that'his said exceptions might be, signed, sealed, and
allowed, and the same is done accordingly.
The defendant, Thompson, sued out a writ of error, and carried
the case to the Circuit Court of the United States for'the Southern
District of Alabama, under the act of 1839, ch. 20 (5 Statutes at
Large, 315).
At March term, 1843, the Circuit Court passed the following order:-" This day came the parties, by their attorney, and thicause
coming on to be heard upon the transcript of the record, and the
matters assigned for error being heard by the court, and mature deliberation being* thereupon had, it is considered by the court that
there is error in the record and proceedings of the s'aid District
Court ; whereupon, it is ordered and adjudged by the court there
that the judgment of the District Court be reversed and annulled,
and that the said plaintiff recover his costs."
From which judgment Mayberry sued out a writ of error, ana1
brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Brockenbrough and M4r. 'Sherman, for
the plaintiff in error, and .T'r. Dargan, for defendant in error.

124

SUPREME COURT.
Mayberry v. Thompson.

The third point of the counsel for the plaintiff in error was the'
one upon which the opinio.n of this court turned, and is therefore
the only one inserted. It was as follows :III. As to the venire facias de novo and an absolute reversal.
There can be no doubt that if the Circuit Court was clear, from
the record, that the plaintiff had no cause of action, and was not
entitled to recover in any event, under the facts, that that court was
right in absolutely reversing the.judgment. But if the Circuit Court
considered" the Districf Court correct in its judgment as to the illegality of the levy and sale, but wrong as to the question of evidence in the cross-examination of Randalls only, then it should not
-have reversed the judgment absolutely, but have remanded it with a
venire de novo, that the plaintiff might have the benefit of his meritorious right of action, and the defendant not be deprived of his full
rights in the cross-examination.
But as we contend the District Court was right in both points,
we ask to set aside the reversal, and set up the judgment of the
District Court.
But if this court thinks the District Court did not err upon the
main question, but did err on thq question of the cross-examination,
then this court-will reverse the decision of the Circuit Court, with
the proper directions ; becduse that court did not award a venire
facias de novo.
The counsel for the defendant in error noticed this point as
follows :The act of Congress that established the Middle District of the
State of Alabama, and allowed appeals and writs~of error from that
court to the Circuit Court for the Fifth Judicial Circuit, does not
by any express words make it obligatory on the Circuit Court to
award a venire de novo, but ;s silent on the subject, tberef6re we
must look to the. general rules of practice on this subject. I admit
that the Circuit Court may award the venire de novo on reversing
the judgment of the District Court, but I deny that an omission to do
so can be reached by a writ of error, unless the party claiming the
the venire had asked the court below to award it, and~the court had
refused it. It is a settled rule, that a party complaining of errors
must show it affirmatively; he must show that the inferior court
erred, and this error was prejudicial to his rights. Bradstreet v.
Huntington, 5 Peters, 402.
Now, the defendant in error in the Circuit Court (who is plaintiff
here) could have demanded a venire-de novo, but he did not ; the
Circuit Court, therefore, did not deny him the right of the writ of
venire, nor act on it. How did this action of-the Circuit Court
leave the rights of the plaintiff in error ? I
The judgment of the District Court was reversed, and held
for nought. The parties were put by this judgmeant.in the same
situation they occupied before the su:t was brought' and4 the plain-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

125

Mayberry v. Thompson.

tiff in error in this court 4ould have issued a new writ. In Bank
of the United States v. Bank of Washington, 6 Peters, 8, the
Supreme Court held, that a party who had derived a benefit from-a
judgment which had been reversed, must make restitution ; that is,
the reversal of the judgment puts the parties in statu quo. So in
2 Gal. 216, it is held, that a judgment reversed is no bar to an
action on the same subject-matter. So in 1 Root, 421 i it is decided thai, if a judgment on a note is reversed the noie is revived ;
to the very same effect see 10 Mass. 433; 5 Mass. 264 ; 3 Johns.
443.
These authorities, I think, settle the point that Mayberry, on
the reversal of the judgment by the Circuit Court, could have
brought a new suit in'the State or'federaf courts, or he could
have demanded a venire de novo. But he had the option to do the
one or the other ; he did not inform the court which remedy he
chose. Can he now complain of error that the court left him to
select for himself ? Can he complain that the court did not grant
him a remedy which he did not apply for, when he had the power
to select between two remedies Z - This view will sho% that the
court did him no injury, - the court was merely passive ; it did not
decide 'on any right, nor act on any. 'Will error lie, therefore, in
such a case ? If so, may I not well ask, in what did the court err ?
Again. The motion for the venire must be made in the court
below. I think it plain that the party cannot come here by writ
of error, and, for the first time, move for the venire in this court ;
the object of tile writ of error being merely to make such a motion.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon looking into the record, in this case, we find that there was
no final judgment in the Circuit Court, and consequei'uy no writ of
error will lie from this court.
It appears that the plaintiff in error br6uglht an action of trespass
against the defendant, in. the District Court for the. Middle District
of Alabama, for taking and carrying away certain goods and .chattdes alleged to be the property of the plaintiff, and recovered a
judgment for $ 3,709.94 and costs.
A bill of exception w's -taken by the defendapt to the rulings of.
the court upon several points raised at the trial, and the case removed by writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Alabam, 'where the judgment of the- District Court'was
reversed with costs. And upon this judgment of reversal, without
- any further proceedings in tfie Circuit Court, the plaintiff sued out a
writ of error from this court.
The writ of error to remove. the case to the Circuit Court is
given by the act of 1839, ch. 20, ยง 9 ; and as this law contains no
special provision in relation to the judgments of the Circuit Court
in such cases, .the decisions of that court -must be rexamined here,
11 *

126

SUPREME COURT.
Mayberry r. Thompson.

in the manner and upon the principles prescribed in the general laws
upon that subject.
The judiciary act of 1789, ยง 24, provides, that where the judgment of a, District Court is reversed in the Circuit Court, such
court shall proceed to render such judgment as the District Court
should have rendered. Under this uct, however, the judgment of a
Circuit Court upon a writ of error to a District Court could not
be regxamined in this Court ; no writ of error in such cases being
given. And so the law stood until the act of July 4th, 1840, ch.
43, ยง 3, which provides that writs of error in such cases shall lie,
upon the judgment of a Circuit Court, "in like manner and under the
same regulations, limitations, and restrictions as were there provided
by-law for writs of error on judgments rendered upon suits originally brought in the Circuit Court." And, under the 22d section
of the act of ha 89, writs of error on judgments rendered in a Circuit Court upon suits originally brought there will lie only in cases
when the judgment is a final one, and the matter in dispute exceeds
the sum or value of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs.
It is evident that the judgment of the Circuit Couri now before
us is not a final one.t It does not dispose of the matter in dispute.
And if it was affirmed in this court, it would still leave, the matter
in dispute open to another suit ; and might result in another writ of
error to remove it to the Circuit Court, and then again to this 'court.
The act of Congress certainly never intended to sanction such fruitless and inconclusive litigation ; and therefore directed that the Circuit Court should give such judgment as the "DistrictCourt ought
to have given, that is to say, a final judgmeni upon the matter in
dispute. Instead of suing out a writ of error upon the judgment
of reversal, the plaintiff should have taken the necessary steps to
bring his case to a final decision in the Circuit Court, in the same
manner-as if the suit had been originally brought there. And if
he supposed any of the rulings or instructions of the court at the
trial to be erroneous, he would have been entitled to his exception,
and this court could then by writ of error have reexamined the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and finally decided upon the matter
in controversy in the suit.
But upon the judgment of reversal only, which leaves the dispute
betvyeen the parties still open, no writ of error will lie, and the writ
issued in this case must theiefor& be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on tobe heard on the transcript of the record
'from'the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is nowhere ordered and adjudged by'this court that this
cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

