'10

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Lawton et at.

Uponthe whole,,we think the certificate under consideration was
suficient, and that the deposition, on the ground'stated, ought not
to be overruled.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
frm the Circuif Court 6f the United States for the Southern Distaint of.Mississippi, and on the point and question on which 'the
Judges of the .said Circuit Court, were opposed in -opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued

by.counseL

On consideration whereof; it is the -opinion of this

court that the certificate under consideration was sufficient, and
that the deposition, on the ground stated, ought not to be overruled,
Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged that it be

so certified to the, said Circuit Cout.,

'TEi tXITED SITATEs, APPELLANT,.V. Josni' LAw'oN, ExEcuvTo. oF
POLLARD, HAgNAX MAAiA
01AMEs LAWTO6N, M&RT.
Wirn -bP 3.&iMs KEIISHAw, FT A&L.

KnSRSAw,

A Spanish grant of land in Florida, for six miles square, "at the place caMlld
Dunn's lake, upon the river St. John's," is too vague -to be confrmed, even
with the aditonal knowledge- that the object, of the grantde was to establish
machinery io be propelled by water-liower.
The river t. John's meanders so much that it is near Dunn's lake for thirty
miles. The suivey might therefore commence at any point of tbis.distance with
is-much propriety as at any other point.
This concession, cannot -be distinguished finm various others which have been
brought bdfore this court. The land granted was not sevexed 'from the king's
domain. It remained a .floating grant not recognized by the gtvernment of
Spsi before the cession, nor by tlis government since, as conferring an individual title to any specific parcel of land.
Nor is the ritin this case aided by .tWo surveys, one purporting to-have been
made in December, 1817, and the. other in the spring of.1818. The first must
kave' been-fictitious, not actually made upon the ground, but merel upon paper;
and the second was too iniperfect to be be effectual.
Piuiea to the act of May 26, 1824, Congress alQne could act upon these in'cipiept titles. By that act power was given to the court to pass a decre for the
land, provided its locality, extent, and boundaries could be found. But,. in the
cannot be done.
present case, this

Tzirs was an appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida,
under the following circumstances..
ON the-10th of November, 1817, James 'Darley presented the
following petiti6n:to Governor Coppinger.
"To his Excellency the Governor:
"Don James Darrey, a Dative of Great Britain, with the respect
due to your Excellency, says, that wiih the view of settling himselff

JANUARY TFlRM, 1847.

11

The United States v. Lawton et al.

in this province under the protection of his Catholic Majesty, knowing the very great advantages that would result to the commerce of
it from the article of lumber, if machinery for sawing is erected, for
sawing for the consumption of the province, as well as for exportation ; ard wishing to'dedicate his attention and funds to this object, whenever he may be hi possession of the necessary right, he
asks and supplicates your Excellency will be pleased to gract to
him from this time, in absolute property, six miles square of land,
at the place called Dunn's lake, upon the river St. John's, for
the purpose aforesaid of establishing said machinery; which favor
he hopes to merit from the justice of your Excellency. St. Augustine, Florida, 10th of November, 1817."
To which the following response was given Decree.
,CSt. Augustine, 10th of JNovember, 1817.
"Taking into cbnsideration the benefit and utility which ought to
result to the improvement of this province by what the petitioner
proposes, There are granted to him, in absolute property, the six
miles square of land which he solicits for said water saw-mill, and
that it may be effected let there be issued to him, from the secretary 'soffice, a certified copy of this petition and decree, which will
serve him as title in form.
CoPPINGER."

On the 21st of December, 1817, G6orge Clarke, the surveyorgeneral, gave the following certificate of survey, accompanied by
a plat.
"I, Don George Clarke, captain of the Northern District of East
Florida, and by the government -thereof appointed surveyor-ge-,
eral of said province, do-certify that I have surveyed and delineated for Santiago-Darley a square of six miles of land, equal to
twenty-three thousand snd, four acres, on the west part of Dunn's
lake, contiguous to the Waters thereof, in its upper part, which
lands were granted to him.by the government on the 10th of Novemher of the present year. Said tract is conformable to the following plat, and to the copy thereof, which I keep. Northern
District, 21st December; 1817."
On the 22d of May, 1819, the grantee filed his petition to the
Superior Court of Florida, praying confirmation.
,On the 12th of September, 1829, the District Attorney of the
United States, Thomas Douglas, answered the above petition, denied generally the matters and things -stated in it, of which he
required proof, averred that the grant, if made, was in violation of
the laws 'of Spain, and that the governor had no power to make it;
that if made at all, it was made after the 24th of January, 1818,

12

SUPREME Q OUR-T.
The United States v. Lawton et al.

and antedated ; that grai)ts' for speculation were contrary to the.
policy of Spain) and void ; that the grant, if made, was ipon the
condition that Darley would build a saw-mill, which he had not
done ; that the grant conferred no right to the soil, but only a right
to cut pine-trees for the use of the mill, and averred that Barley
was not a subject of the king of Spain at the date of the supposed
grant, which circumstance, of itself, rendered the grant null and
void.
On the 26th of May, 1830, Congress passed an act, the fourth
section of which enacted as follows :"That all the remaining claims which have been presented accordig to law, and not finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and
finally settled, upon the same conditions,, restrictions, and limitations, in every respect, as are prescribed by the act of Congress
approved 23d May, 1828."
On' the 4th of January, 1834, the will of Darley was admitted to
probate (he having died at some prior time which the record does
not .state), and letters testamentary were granted to Charles Lawton as executor.
Onf the 23d of July, ,1834, the claimant's death was suggested,
and the cause ordered to proceed in the name of Charles Lawton,
executor.
On the 29th of July, 1834, Charles Lawton filed a bill of revivor on behalf of himself and the unknown heirs and devisees of
the deceased.
On the'26th of August, 1834, the Attorney of the United States'
answered the bill of revivor, denying the right of Lawton to revive the suit, either for himself as executor, or on behalf of the
unknown heirs and devisees:
On the 16th of June, 1841, a bill of revivor was filed on behalf-of Joseph, Lawton, executor of Martha Pollard, the widow of
Jonathan Pollard, late of 'England, deceased ; of James Kershaw
and Hannah Maria Pollard, his wife ; of Robert Mutrie and Sarah
Pollard, his wife.; of William Pollard and James Pollard, all of
England, children of Martha Pollard, and heirs aiid legatees of
James Darley,, deceased.
On the 10th of July,. 1841, the District Attorney of the United
States filed hisanswer in the ndiureof a general replication, and on
4he 17th of July the cause came up for hearing.
,On the lth o September, 1841, the court pronounced a deoree, from Which the following is an, extract.
' Without recapitulating the other proofs in the cause, it is sufficient for the present to say, that'the claimants have made out a*
case, which entitles them to a confirmation of the title of the land
granted, provided the identity of the land specified in the grant is
much a to warrant a decree' of confirmation ; or, in other words, if

JANUARY TERM, ,1847.

13

The United States v. Lawton et al.

the description of the'land, as contained in the grant, is such that
the land intended can be identified located, and laid down by
actual survey, according to.the calls and manifest intention of the
grant.
"The claimants have put in evidence a survey 6f a tract of land,
made by George J. F. Clarke (formerly the Spanish surveyorgeneral of East Florida), bearing date. the twenty-first day 9 f December, 1817, and which, with the plat -accompanying it, purports
to be a survey and plat of the land it
estion. But there are objections to this survey of such a nature as to make it improper that
an absolute decree should be made for the land therein described.
"First, it does not follow the calls of the grant, even if they can
be followed at all ; the grant is for the place called Dunn's lake,
' on the river St. John's.' There is as yet no proof that there is
such a -place 'on the river St. John's'; but taking it for granted
that there is such a place, which -nay be found, this survey does
not appear to be at that place'; it is not ' on the river St. John's '
at all.
" The location, it is true, ap ears to be on the west side of
Dunn's Lake, and ' contiguous to the waters thereof in its upper
part.' In the absence of any proof as to th6'geography of he
country, if it should be said that the court should take notice .of
the maps of the surveyed part of the territory, as published from
'the land-office, it will be remark d that the maps of the country
show that a lake, called Dunn's lake, does connect itself with the
St. John's ; but it will also appear that a .square of six miles,
bounded on the east by the upper end of the lake, will not extend
to the river St. John's ; and if it was the intention of, the grant that
the lands should lie ' upon the river St. John's,' such a location
as is set forth in the plat and survey must of course be rejected.
" Whether the point ofjunction between.the lake'and the river
is ' the place' alluded to in the grant, it is 'not necessary now to determine (nor in fact can that point be determined without further
proof) ; but if it is there, clearly the survey offered is not a survey
or plat of the land granted.
" Secondly. The survey and plat are materially defective in
other particulars. There is no well-defined corner, or permanent
monument, mark, or boundary, which is .known and established, or
which can be found as a startitig-point. The plat shows that the
first corner is a stake in the swamp, near the margin of the lake, but
whereabouts 'in the swamp, or how far from the bead or the foot of
the lake, does not appear ; and all the other corners are represented to be stakes, but without marks, and their location entirely
undefined ; and the survey does not purport that the lines were
ever run or marked ; and even if it was conceded that stakes were
set at the four corners of a tract six miles square, in that part of
the country, in 1817, it could hardly be supposed that at thiime
VOL. V.
2

14

SUPREME COURT.
The United Stat~s v. Lawton et al.

they-would furnish any aid to the person who should- attempt to
find the tract ; but the court cannot disregard the suggestion which
has been repeatedly made in these land cases, with reference to
Clarke's surveys, viz. . that they were not made-in fact upon the
land, but merely delineated on paper, parti6ularly where that sug-.
gestion is strengthened by the internal evidence afforded by the
survey itself. This plat and survey bill might easily have been
made by Mr. Clarke without his ever seeing the land, and .in the
absence of any proof to show that any one corner, line, or mark,
or boundary of this tract'is now extant, or can be found, it would
be very improper to confirm this survey.
"It must *notbe overlooked in the decision of these land cases,
thatalthough the equity apd justice of the claim, or the validity of
the grafit alleged, is of primary importance, and the first thing to be
ascertained,'yet the exact location and boundaries of the tract in
quftion are equally important, not only to the United States, but
t the claimant ; and it was one of the principal objects that the
government had in view, in confiding the adjustment of these claims
to this court, by the act of 1828 and 1830, that the extent, lo.cation, and boundaries -of such grants as were found to be valid
x:ight be clearly ascertained, and fully ad finally adjusted between
the claimants and the government, so 'that the grants found tb be
valid might, with precision and accuracy, be severed from the re-.
mainder of the public domain, and that the proper officers of the
government. might know what lands belonged to the United States,
and what might and- could safely be sold by them.
, 11 This was all-important to'the correct operations of the landofficed, and of deep concern to the clainiants, and by the act of
0 ongress the decree of this court is made final and conclusive upon
the parties, unless appealed from. To make a decree, thervfore,
wlh 6rmdrely settles the right of the claimant to a certain quantity
of land in a certain neighbourhood, or section of the country, without clearly defining the locality, extent, and boundaries of such
land, by proper and, known or permanent landmarks and monuments, would seem to be a very incomplete fulfilment of the pro-.
visions of the statute, and to fall far short of the objects of the
law. The surveys of these grants'should be accurate, and defined
by permanent orzers-d
a~ the'.interseetion of the lines of the tract
with the lines of the government suveys should be 'clearly lnd accurately shown ; or where this is not entirely-practicable, some one
or more of the corws 6f the tract'or&
.should be et.arly defined by a permanent landmark or monument, - and its course and
distance- from some corner of the'public surveys accurately given, so
that the lines of the tract may be seen therefrom without any
difficulty.
. In this case, it may be mat -the survey was actually made, and
that fiurther piroofs may show, that the lines and comers are now to

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

15

The United States v. Lawton et al.

be found, and that it is clearly within the calls of the grant ; but if,
on the other hand, it should appear that no survey was made, or
that no comers or boundaries can be found, or, being found, that they
-are not within the calls of the grant, then it is a proper case for a
survey before final decree, and one should be made ; provided, upon
proofs to be made respecting the region of country in which the
grant is claimed, ' the place ' designated in the grant can be found
and identified; but if, on the contrary, it should appear that the
place mentioned in the grant cannot be found, and that the description is too indefinite for a survey to be. made,- that the description
lacks identity, or ascertainable locality, then of course the grant
must be declared void for want of identity,, and the claimants take
nothing by -their concession. Forbes's case, 15 Peters, 184, 185 ;
Arredondo's case, 6 Peters, 691 ; Bucyk's case, 15 Peters,
223.
"1With a view, therefore, of enabling the. claimants to produce
further proofs on these points, and to identify and locate the land
claimed -by actual survey, or otherwise, the dcree must be suspended or postponed, and the cause continued.
J. H. BRoNSON, Tudge."
On the 13th of November, 184i, the evidence of Mfauricio
Sanchez, Joseph S.'Sanchez, and John M. Fontane was filed, in
addition to ihat of Antonio Alvarez, all of which is as follows :Testimony of Antonio Alvarez, ,a witness produceA, sworn, and
examined on the part of the claimants.
Witness says, I am keeper of the public archives of East Florida;
a certificate, with the name of Thomas de Aguilar. signed to it,
being shown to witness, he says, I this document was transferred to
my office by the land-commissioners. It is in the handwriting of
Thomas de Aguilar, and is- signed by him. The 6rtified copy
here produced and filed in -this cause (by me - certified) is a trie
copy of this paper. ThiEA certificate of Aguilar came into my
office in 1829, or early in 1830. This claim of Darley was filed
before the board of land-commissioners- 29th November,' 1823.
The plat and-survey, it appears, were filed with the commissioners
on that day. I was in the secretary's office here, in 1817. The
paper which we used was from Havana ; we usually got our paper
there ; never got American paper that I remerhber. The inhabitants here were in the habit of using American, or English, or
Spanish paper. Paper imported from the United States was common in those days."1
Being cross-examined, witness says, the paper on which the
Aguilar certificate is written is Spanish paper. The survey is on
American paper. Clarke did not do his business in the secretary'i
office.
Testimony of Mauricio Sanchez, Joseph S. Sanchez, and John

16

SUPREME COURT.
The-United States v. Lawton et al.

M. Fontane, witnesses produced, sworn, and examined on the part
of the claimants.
Mauricio Sanchez, sworn, says, "I know the lake called Dunn's
lake ; have known it about fourteen years. It is on the east side
of the St. John's river, and about fifty miles southwest of St. Augustine. I know of no other lake of that name ; it empties into the
St. John's. The lake is about fifteen miles long, and about three
or four miles wide. I lived on the lake with my' uncle, Ramon
Sanchez, abov e six or eight years. - This is Dunn's lake on the
St. John's,"
Cross-examined by United States attorney.
Witness says, "Fro in the river St. John's you go about ten miles
through a deep creek to the lake. It is about five miles to Lake
George. The St. John's river makes a bend west of this lake,
and leaves a deep strip between it and the river St. John's. This
strip of land is sometimes dalled Cows-neck, and sometimes
'Dunn's like neck. There is a swamp-on the west side of the
lake, continuing eight or nine miles up from'the mouth of the outlet. The spets of hard land, and sonie swamps and sawgrass," &c.
By the court.
" If I had a grant on Dunn's lake, I think.I. should have it lying
on Dunn's lake. The strip, or Cows-neck, is from six to ten
miles wide, perhaps more. The outlet of the lake, by the meanders, is about ten miles ;.in a straight line, perhaps six miles. This
outlet is a narrow creek, very deep, sometimes an hundred yards
wide, sometimes narrower."
Joseph S. Sanchez, being duly sworn, says:
"I have known Dunn's lake for fifteen years. I have resided
there, and'know it well. It empties into the St. John's by a creek
called Duin's creek. The lake is east of the St. John's; itis
about five or six miles- from the St. John's. The widest part of
the strip.of land is near the beginning of the creek."
Cross-examined by counsel for th United States.
"I know of no place on the St. John's river called Dunn's lake,
ewept this. The mouth of the outlet in the St. John's is about
seg2n miles above Pilatka. From Hambly's store on the St.
John's it is ab3ut seven or eight miles across to the lake; above
ther6 -it
is perhaps four or five. Dunn's creek is about twenty or
thirty feet wide, and in going up into the lake, you go in a southeasterly direction, about ten miles by the meanders of the creek,
and about seven miles in a straight line. The lake is about fifteen "
miles long, and about three miles wide on an' average, and lies
nearly north and south. A swamp extends up the lake* about half
way on the west side. Then there is some. swamp, some hammock, and some hard land.
5' The average width of the strip of land lying-betweeli the lake
and river St. John's is about fivea ,ailes.
In some places, more.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

17

The United States v. Lawton et al.

The widest part of the strip is at the north end of the lake. From
the middle of the west side of the lake, I should think it would be
about five and a half railis to the St. John's, and above that, the
average width is about five miles between the lake and river St.
John's.
"By Dunn's lake on the river St. John's, I understand, a Dunn's
lake on the St. John's. But I know nothing about Dunn's lake."
John M. Fontane, being duly sworn, says " I have seen a survey made for James Darley, by Geo. J. F.
Clarke. I received fifty dollars from Darley for Clarke, for making this survey, by an order from Clarke, about 1820. 1 understood it was for making this survey.
"There is a Dunn's lake which empties into the St. John's. It
is the only one that I know of. I have never been there."
On the same day when this evidence was filed, viz. the 13th -of
November, 1841, the court passed an order to have the land surveyed. Owing to various impedimentsi this survey was not male
until the 1st of July, 1843, nor returned to the court until the 1st
of December, 1843. It was made by James M. Gould, the
county surveyor of St. John's county, and upon its presentation.
was objected to by the connsel for the United States, because it
did not conform to the grant, or to the calls of the grant. It was,
however, allowed to be received in evidence, subject to the objection of the counsel for the United States, and without prejudice.
On the same day when the survey was returned, viz. the 1st of
December, 1843, the counsel for the claimants offered the deposition of James Pellicier, taken under commission, which was read in
evidence. The testimony and answers of the witness in this deposition were objected to by the counsel for the'United, States as
being irrelevant and improper, and the whole evidence objected to
as being incompetent. The counsel for claimants said, that he
offered the deposition to show that there is such a tract of land,
and to identify and locate it. The deposition was received, as
tending to show thai there is such a tract of land, &c., but subject
to the objection of the counsel of the United States, as to its relevancy and effect.
The deposition was as follows
-

Interrogatories to be propounded to James Pellicier, a-witness
in the above-entitled cause, and to be taken before George R.
Fairbanks, Esq., clerk, "and to be used in evidence on the trial
thereof,
First. Were you or not acquainted with James Darley in his
lifetime ?- Where did he reside, previous to the year.-1817, and
was he or not a Spanish subject ?
To the first interrogatory witness answers
2*
-

18

SUPREME COURT.
The United States w. Lawton et al.

"I was acquainted with James Darley in his lifetime. He resided
inthe city of St. Augustine, previous to the year 1817 ; he was a
merchant at that time ; I believe that lie was a Spanish subject,
and have no doubt of it."
Second. Have you or not any knowledge of a concession of
land made by the Spanish government to the said James Darley,
on Dunn's lake ?
To the second interrogatory he replies "I understood from the said James Darley, at that time, that be
had received a grant of land from the Spanish government, situated
on Dunn's lake. I think I so understood from him about the early
part of 1817, or the early part of 1818, 1 am not sure whi'ch. The
quantity I think 'was six miles square, granted for a mill-seat, I
think. It was a fact' generally known in the neighbourhood where
I lived, at Matanzas."
Third. Do you or- not know of the survey of a tract of land on
Dunn's' lake, in favor of James Darley ? If you do, say in what
year that survey was made, who was the surveyor, and who the
chain-carriers ? Were you, and-who else were, present at this
survey; and what was the number of acres to be surveyed, as near
as you can recollect ?
To the third interrogatory he answers " In the year 1818, I think in the early part, between the middle
of March and the middle of April in that year, I was employed by
Mr. James Darley in assisting him to make a survey.of a tract of
land claimed by him on Dunn's lake. Robert McHardy was the
sirveyor employed. Two black men, one called George Bulger,
belonging to Mr. Bulger of St. Augusfine, and Peter Survel, a free
black mulatto, were the chain-carriers. I sometimes carried the
compass, aid sometimes the chain, as Mr. McHardy directed me.
Mr. Gibson of Charleston; and Mr. Alexander of Charleston, were
both present at said survey, and I understand are neither of- them
living. I cannot recollect the nuniber of acres to be surveyed ; I
think it was six miles square."
Fourth. 'State. where- the surveyor commenced his survey,
whether he made any marks, and what marks, and how far the
survey extended, and what prevented the surveyor from extending
his survey further. State all the particulars, and what marks, if
any, you made on the line.
To the fourth interrogatory witness answers
", The surveyor commenced his survey on the edge of Dunn's
lake, at the south end of Cowen's old field, as it was called by the
guide, Peter Survel ; we run. the line from thence, from three
quarters of a mile to a mile and a half, west from the lake, and
blazed the trees with one or two chops above the blazes ; these
marks were made by me. And then, on account of some misunderstanding between Mr. Darley and Mr. McHardy, the surveyor,
-

JANUARY

19

TERM, 1847..

The United States v. Lawton et al.

the survey was stopped. The misunderstanding arose from Mr:.
McHardy's wishing to see the oider of survey, which Mr. Darley
refused to exhibit to him, although he said he had it with him ; we
then broke up the survey, and went back to Mr. McHardy's, on
the Tomoka."
Fifth. Say if it was the north or south line that McHardy surveyed.
To the fifth interrogatory witness replies " The line surveyed by Mr. McHardy was ifitended for the
north line of the tract."
Sixth. Were you or not with James M. Gould, esquire, at the
time he made a recent survey of a tract of laud as claimed by the
heirs pf Darley ? State whether or not.you pointed out the Startingpoint of this survey ; was it the same at which McHardy commenced ; did you see any mark there, such 'as you juaged 'to ,be
the same that was made by McHardy, or not ?
To the sixth interrogatory witness replies "1Iwas with James M. Gould, esquire, at the time he made a
recent survey of a tract of land as claimed by the heirs of Darley,
I showed Dv[r. James M. Gould the same point at which we had
commenced *the survey, when I was vith Mr. McHardy, I saw
and pointed out to Mr. Gould the same marks which I had made
when.I was with Messrs.'Darley and Mc~lardy. I ihowed him a
blazed tree, as the starting-point."
Seventh. Did you or not see other marks ? State all the particulars.
To the seventh direct interrogatory witness says "I saw several blazes about the woods, but no other surveyor's
marks. I did nothing more than to show them thbse old marks
which I had made."
Eighth. State any other facts within your.recollection.
To the eighth and last direct interrogatory witness says
" That I donot know any other matter'or thing pertinent to, or
relating to, the subject-matter of these interrogatories."
-

JAMES, PELLICIER.

Cross-interrogatories to be propounded on behalf of the United
States to James Pellicier, a witness for the petitioner in the aboveentitled cause.
First. If you say that you know James Darley, please state
whether he is now alive,or dead, when andwhere he died, and his
!ge at the time of his-death, and your age now.
"
To the first cross-interrogatory witness replies
"I know James, Darley. He aied in St. Augustine, in the
*summer of 1832. I do not know of his age at the tigie he died ;
he must have been. between forty-five and fifty years of age, when
he died. I am nearly forty-seven years of age now."'

20

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Lawvton et al.

Second. Where was said James Barley born 3 was he not.born
in Scotland, or in some other foreign country ?
To the second cross-interrogatory witness answers :'
I1 have heard Mr. Darley say that he was born in England;
have often heard him say that he was of English birth.".
. Third. if you say'that said James Darley was a Spanish subject,
state how you know that fact; do you know it*of your. own knowledge ?
To the third cross-interrogatory, witness answers
"11 have no other knowledge of 3ames Barley being a Spanish
subject, than from having so understood from himself, and from the
fact of his enjoying liberties and privileges which only. Spanish sub-,
jects were .permitted'by the laws of the province to enjoy ; he was
reputed to be a Spanish subject."
Fourth. Hf you answer the second direct interrogatory in the affifmative, please state how you obtained such knowledge; was it
not from report or hearsay, or the statements of said James Darley
himself ?
To the fourth cross-intierrogatory, witness says :
"My answer to the second direct interrogatory embraces all my
knowledge on the subject, and is as full as I can make it."
. Fifth. If you answer the third direct interrogatory in the affirmative, please state how you obtained. your knowledge of said suryey ; was it from report or hearsay, or the statements of the
said James Barley himself ? Did-you assist in making a survey f6r
said James Barley, at Dunn's lake ?, If you did, state when and.
who was the surveyor, whether y6o khow this of your own knowledge or from hearsay.
To the fifth cross-interrogat6ry, witness says :
"I obtained my knowledge of the survey spoken bf, -by having
been present at,, and assisting in making, such survey at Dunn's
lake -as before'spoken of.. It was in the early part of -1818 ; it
might have been ifi
the early part of 1817 ; it strikes me that it was
in the early Iaft of 1818. Mr. McHardy I know of my own
knowledge was the surveyor."
Sixth. If you state who were the chain-carriers, state whether
you know this fact ; do you know ivof your own knowledge, or only
from hearsay or the 'statements of said James Barley himself'?
To the sixth cross-interrogatory, witness says
SI know who were the chain-carriers of my own knowledge, having been present at, and "assisting
-

-

in, the survey."

Seventh. f you state where the said surveyor commenced his
survey, or testify as to other matters inquired of in the fourth direct
interrogatory, please state'how you know that fact; were you present at the making of the said survey ?
To the seventh cross-interrogatory, witness answers
"I was present at the making of said survey, and know where tme
-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

21

The United States v. Lawton et al.

survey commenced from my own knowledge ; the other portions of
the fourth direct interrogatory are fully answered in the answer to
that interrogatory.
Eighth. How old were you at the time when you say the said
survey was made ? was said James Darley present at the making
thereof ? who was present ? State the names. (and age as near as
you can recollect) of all the persons who were present.
To the eighth cross-interrogatory,, witness says': C"I was about the age of twenty-one years when that survey was
made; the said James Darley was present at the making of said
survey, and also a Mr. Gibson, and a Mr. Alexander of Charleston, and the two chain-carriers, and myself, and Mr. McHardy,
made up our party. Messrs. Gibson and Alexander took no part
in the survey ; Mr. Gibson was about twenty-five years of age;
Mr. Alexander must have been full fifty years of age, or upwards ;
George Bulger must have been about forty years-of age, and Peter
Survel, the other chain-carrier, must have been about thirty years
of age ; Mr. McHardy was, about forty years of age, and Mr. Darley, from thirty to thirty-five years of age, .at that time."
Ninth. If you answer the sixth direct interrogatory in the aflirmative, please state what marks you poinfed out to the said James
Gould, Esq., and how you "judged any of said marks to be the
same that were nade by the said McHardy1 )
To he ninth cross-interrogatory, witness answers:
I pointed out to Mr. James M. Gouldbae blazes, with one or
two chops above ; I think two chops ; I know them to have been
the sadie marks made by me, on occasion of the survey made by
MeHardy ; I judged them to be the same marks, from having made
themrayself, 'ard. from the fact of no other surveyor at that time
using the same marks, besides McHardy ; these were the marks
always made by MeHardy in all his surveys.
Tenth. -What were said marks? describe them, and also all the
other marks that you there saw, particularly ; were there any letters
amongst them ? If there were, state what'letters.
To the tenth cross-interrogatory, witness answers
"' Said marks made on said survey were such as I have just described, a blaze with one or two chops about it ; I think two chops ;
we made no other marks,, except these blazes And chops. I saw
no surveyor's marks other than these, at that time or since ; I never
saw any letters at or about that place."
Eleventh. Is there any other matter or thing Within your knowledge, material or pertinent to the issbe in this case ; if there is,
please to answer the same as fully and particularly as though you
were, now thereto specially interrogated ?
To the eleventh cross-interrogatory, witness answers :" There is no other Wnatter ur thing within my knowledge, material
or pertinent to the issue in this cause. "
JAMES PELLICIER.

22

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Lawton e tal.

The claimants also offered the evidence-.of James M. Gould,
who made the survey, which was as follows :"The survey made by me, and now before me, is a correct survey, according to the certificate appended thereto. I took with
me the maps from the land-6ffice.
"I found the marks of the government surveys, the sections and
township lines ; I took with me as a guide Mr. James Pellicier ;
I found trees marked, running nearly the same as the northerly ine
of the tract leading from the lake out in thewoods ; they were old
marks ; Mr. Pellicier pointed out to me a tree with old marks, and
stated that within a hundred yards of that tree was the line of the
grant, that is, the beginning corner ; could not tell whether the marks
on that tree were surveyor's marks or not ; Pellicier represented it
as. a starting-point, or ag a tree which he recalled to mind as indicating about where the starting-point was. He did not state to me
that it began at a stake ; he.did not positively point out any tree as
the starting-point ; he said the tract was south of that tree. I-then
sought for a line, and found the line spoken of; I did not find the
line running from that tree, I found the line I suppbse about a hundred yards south from th it tree ; the .marked line of trees pontinued
for half a mile from the "ake, until we came to a pond; I 'found no
old marks beyond and westwardly of the pQnd ; my line varies a
little from that- line ; it varies, however, several degrees ; that old
line was recognized by *Mr. Pellicier as the line he -had assisted in
running ; he stated that they were marked with a blaze'and two
chops, and I found trees marked with a blaze and two chops, which
were old marks; I did not look for any other trees marked, after I
had found the old line ; I saw po other old marked trees ; they
varied a little from the line I run ; it bore a little more northerly
than mine ; I tan the line I did, because it was the courge called
for by Geo. J. F'. Clarke's survey; the line varied northerly perhaps ten degrees; I ran, as I did, moreover, belause the order of
court directed me as nearly as possible to conform to Clarke's
survey."

On the 28th of June, 1844, the court pronounced an opinion and
decree, from which the following is an extrAct.
"It cannot be overlooked, 'inexamining the papers thus far, that
the evident intention of the Spanish governor was, that a saw-mill
should be erected on the lands thus granted, and that that was the
sole and only considerationfor the graint ; and it is singular that the
govern6r-did not, as in all other cases of mill grants, make the
building of a mu, a condition precedent to the giving of an absolute
title ; for I believe there is no other case of a mill grant, by the
goveinor of East Florida, where the absolute title was not made to
depend upon the building of th6 mill, unless'other considerations,
entered into the grant; but it seems that for some- reasons 'best

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

23

The United States v. Lawton et al.

known to himself, Governor Coppinger departed from the usual
form, and dispensed with the usual conditions, inserted in such
grant , and gave the land in Iabsoluteproperty' to the petitioner,
trusting to his good faith to build the mill, which the governor himself sets forth as the sole consideration of the grant. If, therefore,
the governor was willing to take that matter upon trust, and to
make the grant absolute, and without condition, zrs it seems be did
do, it is not within the province of this court to say that the grant
is void, because the condition was not complied with, or the consideration for which it was made was not in fact rendered.
"1According to the principles which hate heretofore governed this
court in the adjudication of these land cases, the, proofs seem to be
sufficient to warrant a confirmation of the grant, and upon the testimony exhibited I consider the claimants entitled to a decree of confirmation ; and after a careful examination of the recent survey,
made by James M. Gould, and the testimony connected therewith,
I think that the location and boundarieg of the tract, as defined in
that survey, are according to the calls of-the grant ; and all things
considered, it is, perhaps, as fair and proper a location as can well
be made.
I IIt is manifest that Clarke's survey or location, or that which was
pretended to have been made by him (and of which a plat has
been given in evidence), could not be found, and I presume for the
obvious reason that no survey was in fact ever made by him. The
recent survey, therefore, could not follow hi§ old survey, but the
courses of the different lines of the tract, adopted by the surveyor
recently, are the [same] as Clarke's ; and on. an inspection of the
map of the adjacent country, I think that the location and Aurvey,
as made by Gould, not only follows the calls of the grant in all essential particulars, but corresponds, so far as it can, with Clarke's
pretended survey.
" The grant is therefore con6irmed, according to the recent survey of Gould, and a decree will be entered accordingly.
J. H. BRONSON, Judge."
" June .28th, 1844.
Fiom this decree the United States appealed.
The cause was argued at the preceding term by Mlfr. .Afason
(then Attorney-General), for the United States, and by .Mr. Yulee,
for the appellee, and held over to the present term under a curia.
0;ir. Olason, for the United States, made four points.
1. That the petition should have been dismissed, because, from
the neglect or delay of the claimant, itwas not prosecuted to a final
decision within two years.
2. Because there is no proof in the record that the plaintiffs are
the devisees of Darley, the original claimant.

24

SUPREME COURT.,
The United States t. Lawton et al.

3. Because the claimant never complied with the condition on
which the concession was made, and the United States is not
bound, by the laws of nations, the treatywith Spain, or our own
laws, to recognize and confirm such an inchoate claim, without a
performance of the condition upon which the grant was made.
4. If this obligation exists, the calls of the grant are so indefinite
and uncertain, that a location cannot be made agreeably to such calls.
(All this argument is omitted except that upon the fourth point,
as the decision of the court rested entirely upon that.)
IV. But if the United States were bound to recognize and confirm the claim without the performance of the condition, and without any consideration,the question recurs, Are the calls of the grant
so definite and certain that a location can be made under it agreeably to such calls ? If they are not, the claim must be rejected.
The grant or concession is for the six miles square of land which
the petitioner had solicited. Darley, in his petition, asked fo "six
miles square of land at the place called Dunn's lake, upon the St.
John's river."
There is no such place as Dunn's lake upon the St. John's
river, The land claimed was not surveyed before the transfer of
the province to the United- States.
The survey of G. J. F. Clarke purports to have been made on
the 21st of D5ecember, 1817 ; but it does not follow the calls of the
concession, and is evidently what is called an office survey, and notan aotual survey; and so the court decided.
The one commenced by McHardy wds not completed, and for a
reason which throws much suspicion over that transaction ;, viz. because Darley, the grantee, would not show to McHardy, the surveyoi, the order of the governo. for making the survey, although he'
said that he had it. See Pellicier's testimony.
McHardy was a'private. surveyor, and, had no right to survey
public lands without a special order. And the refusal of Darley to
show him such an order leads to the presumption, either that he had
none, or that Darley had- taken Mr. McHardy to the wrong place.
This proceeding, therefore, so far from aiding Gould's late location, makes strongly against it.
Dunn's lake is fifteen miles long and three or four wide. Ithas,
therefore, at least thirty-six miles of border. It is not on the St.
John's river, but from seven to ten miles distant from it.
On which side should this land be located, -_ east, west, north, or
,south ? The concession does not show.
The. settled doctrine in respect to these Florijla grants is,' that
grants for lands, embracing a wide exterit of country, or within a
large area of natural or artificial boundaries, and which lands were
not surveyed before the 24th January, 1818, and are. without such
designations as will give a place of beginning for a survey, are-not
lands withdrawn from the mass of vacant lands ceded to the United

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

25

The United States v. Lawton et al.

States in the Floridas, and are void as well on. that account as for
being so uncertain that locality cannot be given to them.
This doctrine was held in Buyck's case, 15 Peters, 215, which
was for a grant of lands "at N1usquito," south and north of said
place. Also, in O'Hara's case, 15 Peters, 275.
And, again, in Delespine's case, 15 Peters, 319. And also in
Forbes's case, 15 Peters, .182, "which was for a grant, of land in
the district or bank of the river Nassau."
And, again, in- the case of the. United States v. Miranda, 16
Peters, 159, 160, and 161, where, all these cases are cited and
ahrmed.
It is believed, therefore, that this grant is void, -for the reasons
above 'stated.
It was not made in such a way as to distinguish it from things of
a like kind ; nor has the identity of the gkant been shown by extra-'
neous evidence. O'Hara and others v. the United States, 15
Peters, 283.
.Xr. Yulee, for the appellees. '(All of his argument is also
omitted, except upon the 4th point made by the Attorney-General.)
2. It is next objected by the Attorney-General, that the grant
mist be rejected for indefiniteness in its location.
Ift
is not half as indefinite as many of the cases of Florida grants
confirmed by this court. But thefact that it was located prior to
the 24th Januar, 1818, by Clarke, a public officer, whose province
it was to make location of. grants, gives it certainty and definiteness
of locality, if'even the terms '6f .the grant were in themselves indefinite.
The survey adopted by the court below is stated by the court to
conform "1to the calls of the grant in all essential particulars" ; and
Gould, the surveyor, states that, as directed by the court, he made
the survey*"to conform, as nearly as. pbssible, to Clarke's survey."
The testimony of Joseph S. Sanchez, at the -time United
States marshal of East Florida, and that of Mauricio Sanchez,
togetherwith 'an inspection of the map, will sh6w that there is
no difficulty in 'making the location under the grant. Dunn's
lake is a sort of 'adjunct of the St. John's'river, between which lakeand the river'there lies a strip of land of an average width of about
five miles, being in some places six, in others more or less. A location on this strip would be strictly and literally as described in the
grant, "at the place called Dunn's lake,.on the river St. John's."
The Attorney-General erroneously states Sanchez's testimony,
in fixing the lake at from seven to ten miles' distance. from.the river.
One of the Sanchez says it is from' six to ten, the other (the best
informed) says, "the average width of the strip of land lying between the lake and the river St. John's is about five miles,V' and
the survey of Gould shows that the plat extends from the river on
one line to the lake on the opposite.
VOL. V.
3

26

SUPREME COURT.'
The United States v. Lawton et a!.

It is unnecessary to refer to the authorities cited by the AttorneyGeneral. The local court, familiar with the localities, decides that
the survey is conformable with the calls of the grant ; the surveyor
of the county so also declares ; the inspectionm of the map will
confirm their judgment ; and no person familiar with the topography
of the vicinage will doubt for a moment that the grant is capable of
ready location.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion-of the court.
We are called on. to ascertain .the correctness of an opinion and
decree pronounced by the Superior Court of East Florida, by which
there was confirmed to certain claimantsi through James Darley, a
The only question proposed
-tract of land containing 23,040 acres.
to be examined regards a location of the land by the decree. Darley
solicited the governor of East Florida, in 1817, to grant to him in
absolute'property six miles square of land, " at the place called
Dunn's lake, upon the river St. John's"; and the grant was made
as solicited. This is the entire description. The river .St. John's
is one of the principal waters of East Florida, and a principal object
in its geography, and may therefore be judicially noticed, ds - minor
objects hive been, in our decisions affecting Spanish claims in the
same section of country. The river is of considerable length, and
runs through several lakes ; there is no place on the, river, however,
known as Dunn's lake, so far as we are informed, by the proofs or
otherwise ; but there is a considerable lake, well known as "Dunn's
lake," lying near the St. John's ; it is proved to lie east of the
river, nearly parallel with it, and about five miles from the river on
an average. The lake i§ about fifteen miles long, and three or four
miles wide. From the description of the land solicited, it is difficult
to say whether the petitioner asked to have" it laid off on the river
or on the lake, but the purpose for which the grant was made decides the ambiguity of expression. The objectwas the erection of
machinery for the sawing of lumber, and the advancement of commerce in the province, from the article of lumber ; and therefore
the land was solicited to be laid' ff on the -river, for the purpose of
establishing inachinery, to be propelled by water power. Giving
the most favorable intendment to the locality described in the petition and grant, still we can only say, that the grant was for land on
the river, opposite to the Jake ; and by further indulging a favorable
construction, so as to limit the 'territory referred to within narrower
bounds, hold that the survey should .be made on that side of the:.
river next the lake, aud between the lake and the. -river. This was
obviouslp the viewv-taen of the matter by the experienced judge of
the Superior Court, and in.which we concur.
-The St. John's river in its general course of northeast makes a
large bend t the west, opposite to the upper end of the lake, and
there passesnthrough Lake St. George' and by its meanders lies op-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

27

The United States v. Lawton et al.

posite to each end and one side of Dunn's lake. A copy of the
plat filed in the land-office, representing the township surveys of that
locality, is in the record as evidence, from which these facts appear ;
and also, that -the St. John's lies opposite Dunn's lake, by its various
bends, for a distance of some thirty. miles. This is the base line,
on which the survey might front. Then, again, by the Spanish ordinances existing in Florida and governing such surveys, the front on
the river could not exceed one-third of the longitudinal extension
back; nor does the description of " six miles square" alter the rule
prescribed by the general law. Sibbald 's case, 10 Peters, 313;
United States v. Hanson. 16 Peters, 201. Governed hy these rules,
*and with this extent of territory before it, the Superior Court was
called on to identify the land granted, and render a decree. The difficulty lay in finding a point at which to commence the survey : from
the face of the grant this could not be done, and therefore the court
sought aid from the following additional circumstances. In December, 1817, Geo. Clarke, the surveyor-general of the province, filed
a plat and certificate of survey in his office, purporting to have been
made of this grant ; but no proof was offered to show that any such
survey had ever been made by Clarke on the ground, and the Superior Court expressed its apprehensions that the survey was fictitious,
as appears by the opinion found in the record ; yet, as it inignt turn
out otherwise on search being made on the ground, and at the survey might reasonably conform to the calls of the concession, should
landmarks be found, a search and resurvey was qrdered, and one
was made and returned to the court by Gould, corresponding as
near as might be, in the judgment of the surveyor, to the lines laid
down on Clarke's plat, at the upper end of Dunn's lake. But no
line-marks were found that had been made by Clarke, and his plat
and certificateproved to be merely fictitious ; his work not extending beyond what he had done on paper. As no aid could be deri-2d from this source to direct the surveyor, Gould, when in the
field, he resorted to another; it was this. In the spring of"1818,
Darley had employed McHardy, a private surveyor, to lay off the
six mile's square of land, with, the aid of Darley, and where he was
present. They commenced at the head of Dunn's lake, and run and
marked a line about a mile, and then disagreed' as to the propriety
of making the survey as proposed by Darley, for what particular
reason does not appear. This was all that was ever done in the
field previous to the time Gould went on the ground, in July, 1843.
Gould took with him Pellicier, who assisted AlcHardy in marking
the line in 1818, for the distance of the mile above spoken of; and
finding the marks at that point, Gould commenced the survey on
which the decree is founded, and laid off the grant in a square form
of six miles to each side5 fronting on Dunn's lake, and extending to
St. George's lake, through which the river St. John's passes. The
survey has no connection with the St. John's river, further than that

28

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Lawton et al.

at its southwest corner it reaches, to the extent of about one mile,
the margin of Lake St. Georg.
In the first place, 'we are of opinion, that the fictitious plat and
certificate of Clarke can have no influence in fixing the identity of
the land granted; nor, secondly, can any consideration be accorded to the line-marks made by McHardy in 1818 ; and, therefore, we are compelled to resort to the.face of the concession for a
description that will identify the land granted. And here, some
legal principles interpose themselves for our government ; the first
of which is, that the.powers of the United States courts are conferred by acts of Congress, and cannot extend beyond the powers
conferred. Previous to thp passing of the act of May 26, 1824,
conferring the .jurisdiction ;on the courts to adjudge incipient titles,
such as the prf.sent is, th6' 6litical power could alone finally pass
on them, and Congress unitrmly did so. By that act the courts
were invested with- the jurisdiction that Congress had previously exercised; but to an extent considerably limited. The governing
rules of adjudication, as- prescribed, are found in the second section of that act ; first, -" 1 The courts shall.have full power and
authority to hear and determine all questions in said cause relative
to the title of the claimant. Second, the extent, locality, and boundaries of the said claim," &c. And by the sixth section, on a decree being had; and a copy thereof being served on the surveyorgeneral of the district, he shall survey the land decreed, for which
a patent shall be issued by the President to the claimant.' The
"1locality, extent, and boundaries," the court must'find, before it
can make an effective decree ; and if these cannot be found, no decree can be made- for any specific piece or parcel of land. The
'Superior Court had no power to grant land ; nor bad it any: power
to decree an equivalent for land that could not be identified ; so
this court has at various times held ; as in the cases of Forbes (15
Peters, 184), of Buyck (ibid. 223), and in several other cases.
The court, not being enabled, in this instance, to "derive any assistance from public acts' beyond the face of the grant, nor authorized'to grant an. equivalent, has presented to it a territory some
thirty miles long, on th'e margin of the river St. John's, at any one
point in which distance the survey, might be commenced with
equal propriety that it mig ht be at any other point; it follows, that
the description, when applied td the facts, is too vague and indefinite
for any survey to be made, and that, thbrefore, the claimants can
take nothing under the concession ; and that it is our duty to order
'the decree of 'the Superior Court of East Florida- to be reversed,
and the pdtition to be dismissed.
.We would remark, in addition, that this concession in its leading
features cannot be distinguished fron" various others that have heretofore been brought before this court for adjudication, where no
s eci6 lad was granted, or intended to be granted ; but it was left

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

29

The United States v. Boyd et al.

to the petitioner to have .a survey made of the land in the distri.
referred to by the concessioiby the surveyor-general -of the province, in due form, on the ground, and to cause the plat and certificate of such survey to be recorded, by the surveyor-general, by
which additional public act -the land granted was severed from the
king's domain, but remained part of it until the-survey was made and
recorded. Until this was done, thJ warrant was a floating wamrant
of survey, not recognized by the government of Spain before the
cession, nor by this government since, ag conferring an individual
title to any specific parcel of land on the petitioner; so this court in
effect held in the case of Wiggins (14 Peters, 351). From the
time that such claims first came before this court, they have not.
been deemed as coming within the cognizance of -the courts of
Florida, because the 8th article of the treaty'of 1819 did not embrace them ; it only provided, "That grants of land mad& by his
Catholic Majesty, or by his lawful authorities, should be ratified and
confirmed to the persons in possession of them, to the same extent
that the same grants would be valid if the territories had remained
under the dominion of his Catholic Majesty." Adtual manual possession has never been required to give title, but such identity must be
established as to enable the courts t9 ascertain with reasoncole cer-"
tainty where the land lies; as was held in Hanson's case (15
Peters) and others. And this may be shown either from the face *of
the grant, or by a legal survey made by the surveyor-general in
conformity to the grant, during the time he had power to make such
,surveys.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the' Superior Court for the Distridt of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration' whereof, it is the opinion of
this court, that the claimants can take nothing under ilie concession
in this case ; whereupon, it is now here ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the .aid Superior Court in this case be
and the -same is hereby reversed and annulled ; and that -this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Superior Court,'with
directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. GoRnoN D. BoYD AND'
OTHERs, DrFENDANTS.
The act of Congress, passed -on the 24th of April, 1820 (3 Statutes at Large, 56),
which substituted cash payments in lieu of credit sales of the public lands, made
no exception in favor of, the receiver. If he can purchase at all, it must be by
placing his own money with the other moneys which he holds in trust for the
government.

