JANUARY TERM, 1847.

233

Taylor et al. r. Benham.
WLLAM TAYLOR, GEORGE TAYLOR, WILLIAM PRIMROSE, AND ELIZA,
HIS WIFE, GEORGE PORTER, AND ELSPET, HIS -WIFE, WILLIAM
RAINEY, ALEXANDER RAINEY, AND ELIZABETH RAINEY, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. VINCENT 1M. BENHrA,, ADMINISTRATOR DE
BONIS NON, WITH THE WILL ANNEXED, OF SAMUEL SAVAGE, DECEASED,
RESPONDENT AND APPELLEE.
VINCENT M. BENHAM, &d.c,v. GEORGE TAYLOR, &c.
By the laws of Alabama, an administrator de honis non, with the will annexed, is
liable for assets in the hands of a former executor.
Where an executor has settled what appears to be a final account, it must b2 a very
strong case of fraud proved in such a settlement, or of clear accident or mistake,
to make it just to reopen and revise the account after the lapse of twenty years
and the death of the 'arties concerned.
Where a person who held land as trustee directed by his will that the whole of
the property that he may die seized and possessed o; or may be in any wise belonging to him, should be sold, the executors had power to sell the land held in
trust, as well as that belonging to the testator in his own right.
The trustee, by his will, having appointed residuary legatees, must be considered
aS devising the trust as well as the lands to these residuary legatees, who thus
became themselves trustees for the original cestui gut trust.
The power in the executors to sell was a power coupled with a trust.
It might also be considered as a power coupled with an interest.
The distinction between these powers adverted t6.
In order to avoid an escheat, and carry out the wishes of the testator, a court of
equity will, if necessary, consider land as money, where a testator, who is a trustee,-has directed the land to be sold, and will direct the proceeds to be given to
the cestui que trust.
Whether the executor had a power to sell coupled with a trust, or a power coupled
with an interest, the residuary legatees took by devise and not by descent, although they were supposed to be also the eestui gue trusts.
If therefore, they were aliens, the land did not escheat on the death of the trustee,
because land taken by devise does not. escheat until office found, although land
cast by descent does.
The testator, who held the lands as trustee, having died in South Carolina, the
executor took out letters testamentary in that State, gold the lands which were in
Kentucky, and then removed his residence to Alabama He can be sued in
Alabama for the. proceeds of the lands, because his transactions in reference to
them were not necessarily connected with the settlement of the estate under his
letters testamentary.
Having sold the lands and received the consideration, he must be responsible to the
residuary legatees.
An objection that only one executor sold (there having originally been four) cannot
be sustained. Where a power is coupled with a trust, it is only necessary to
show such a case as may,'in a court of equity, make an agent or trustee liable to
those for whom he acts. As much strictness is not iequired as there would be
if the power to sell were a naked one, and not coupled with an interest or trust.
Apower to sell, coupled either with an interest or trust, survives to the surviving
executor. So also, if all the trdstees or executors in such a case decline to act,
except one.
When a sale is made under a will, the omission to record the will does not vitiate
the sale, unless recording is made necessary by a local statute.
The land being in fact sold by the executor, claiming a right to do so under the
will, and the purchase money being received by him, he is responsible to the
cestui qua trusts for the money thus received. The reception of an additional
sum, as purchase money, by them, with a reservation of the right to sue the executor, is not an avoidance of the first sale by the executor.
But the executor is not responsible for more monoy than he received, with interest,
unless in case of very supine negligence or wilful default. A claim for dmgo
would also be subject to the operation of the statute of limitations.

20*

234

SUPREME

COURT.

Taylor et al. v . Ben .m.
If the executor himself did not set up a claim, as an offset, for his persoLal expenses,
his representative cannot do it, under the circumstances of this case.

The-cestui que trusts residing in a foreign country, the statdte of limitations did not
begin to run until a demand was made upon the executor for the money. His
retaining it during that time is no evidence that he did not intend to account

for it.
Although the bill made no distinction between the two characters in which the
executor acted, namely, as executor proper, and as executor having a power

coupled with a trust, yet as no objection was taken in the court below upon this
ground, this court does not think that an amendment is imperatively necessary.

The material facts are alleged upon which the claim rests.

THESE cases were twice before partially brought to the notice
of the court, and are reported in 1 How. 282, and 2 How. 395.
They were cross appeals fiom the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill was originally filed by Samuel Taylor, the father of
William, George, Eliza, and Elspet," together with his nephews,
William Rainey, Alexander Rainey, and his niece, Elizabeth
Rainey, against George M. Savage, executor of Samuel Savage,
deceased. The object of the bill was to bold the estate of Samuel
Savage responsible for.certain moneys which, it was alleged, he had
received during his lifetime, in his capacity of executor of William
F. Taylor, a citizen of the State of South Carolina, and also for
his alleged neglect bf lands in Kentucky, by which they were lost.
The record was very voluminous, as a great mass of evidence
was filed in the court below, all of which was brought up to this
court.
The claim divided itself into two distinct branches, one arising
from transactions in South Carolina, where William F. Taylor, the
testator, died, and where letters, testamentary were taken out by
Samuel Savage ; and the other from transactions in the State of
Kentucky. Each of these branches will be stated separately.
William F. Taylor resided in South Carolina, where he had been
naturalized in 1796. Savage lived with him for some time, and
afterwards continued to reside in the vicinity. In 1811, Taylor
died, leaving a will, which was admitted to probate on the I Ith of
August, 1811.
At the"time of his death, the brother and sister. of the testator,
namely, Samuel Taylor and Mary Taylor, were both alive, married,
and had issue. Their children ultimately became parties to this
suit, and their names are in the title of the case. Samuel Taylor
bad two sons, namely, William and George, and two daughters,
na4nely, Ezzz, who int"rmarried with William Primrose, and Ilspet,
who intermarried with George Porter. Mary Taylor intermarried
with William Rainey, and hei issue were two sons and a daughter,
namely, William, Alexander, and Elizabeth.
The first section of William F. Taylor's will was as follows,
namely :-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

235

Tay'lor et al. v. Benham.

"First. I do hereby order, will, and direct, that [on] the firpt day
of January, first after my decease, or as near that day as can conveniently be, that the whole of the property that I may die -seized
and possessed of, or may in any wise belong to me, be sold on the
following terms and conditions, that is to say: All the personal
property on a credit of twelve months from the day of sale, purchasers giving notes of hand or bonds, with security, to the satisfaction of my executors ; and all landed or real property belonging, or
in any wise appertaining to me, shall be sold on a credit of one, two,
and three years, by equal instalments, purchasers to give bond,
bearing interest from the date, with securities to the satisfaction of
my executors, and, moreover, a mortgage on the premises."
The second section gave a legacy to his negro woman Sylvia.
The third and fourth sections also bequeathed legacies to particular individuals.
The fifth and sixth sections were as follows:
" Fifthly. I do heieby will, order, give, grant, and devise all the
remainder or residue of my estate which shall be remaining, after
paying the before-mentioned legacies, to my dearly beloved brother,
Samuel Taylor, of the parish of Drumblait and shire of Aberdeen,
in Scotland, and to my beloved sister, Mary Taylor, of the same
place, share and share alike, provided they shall both be alive at
the time of my decease, and have issue, which issue, after their
respective deaths, shall share the same equally ; but if either the
said Samuel Taylor or said Mary Taylor shall die without issue,
then the survivor, or, if both shall be dead, the issue of the said
Samuel Taylor or Mary Taylor, whichsoever shall leave the same,
shall be entitled to the whole of'the said remainder or residue of
my said- estate, share and share alike.
"1And sixthly and lastly. I do hereby nominate, constitute, and
appoint my friends, Samuel Savage, Esquire, of the district of Abbeville and State of South Carolina, Patrick- McDowell, of the
city of Savannah and State of Georgia, merchant, Duncan Matheson and William Ross, of the city of Augusta and State of
Georgia, merchants, executors of this my last will and testament;
hereby revoking and making void all former wills and testaments, at
any time by me heretofore made, and do declare this to be my last
will and testament."
The executors all qualified as such. No bond was given, as
neither the laws of the State nor the practice of the court required
a bond from an executor under a will. " This narrative will treat,
Ist. Of the transactions in South CarQlina where all the executors acted.
2d. Of the Kentucky lands, where Savage acted alone.
I. With respect to what was done in South Carolina.
On the 30th of September, 1811, an inventory and appraisement
were made of.the goods and chattels of the deceased. But as the

236

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. ir. Benham.

amount was not added up, it cannot properly be stated ; and on the
18th of January, 1812, an additional inventory and appraisement
were made, which latter amounted to $808.12.
A list of notes
and accounts due to the estate was also handed in by Savage, as
one of the executors. Ross also filed a list of notes, bonds, and
open accounts belonging to the estate, in his possession.
In January, 1812, the four executors made sales of the real and
personal property, amounting to $24,011.46, and returned a list
thereof to the Court of Ordinary. The law at that time did not require an account of sales to he recorded. After this, McDowell
did not appear, by the record, to have any further participation in
the settlement of the estate.
Savage, Matheson, and Ross, each filed separate accounts.
Those of Matheson and Ross will be disposed of before taking up
those of Savage.
Matheson filed but one account, namely, on the 50th March,
1813, by which a balance was due to the executor of $281.76.
Ross filed three accounts, namely :1813, March 30th. Balance due 'the estate,
$4,034.80
1814, April 4th.
"
"
"
6,093.63
1815, April 4th.
"
"
"
6,299.77
Ross does not appear to have filed any further accounts, and
what became of this balance the record does not show. It does
not appear to have been paid over to Savage ; but the complaimants, in their bill, disavowed all claim against Ross.
Savage filed ten accounts, one in each year till 1818, April 22.
The last-mentioned account was as follows :DR. The Estate of Win. F. Taylor, deceased, with Samuel CR.
Savage, Executor.
1818.
March 11, V To cash paid ordinary,
$1.75
V " cash paid Butler & Brooks, 23.621
V " cash paid Butler & Harmond,
16.00
2.50
14, V " cash paid James Day, "

expenses to Edgefield court-house,

"

cash paid M. Mims, clerk, &c.,

and to Augusta,

22, V

for cost,
V " cash paid the clerk,

My commissions on
c

c

-

-

-

25.25

-

17.18
1.561

-

$ 10,393.421,
87.871,

87.87
at 21, -

-

259.82
2.18

$ 349.871

237

TERM, 1847.

JANUARY

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

March 22, V Cash paid the ordinary,

-

-

Expenses at Edgefi6ld court-house,
April 22, V Cash paid Adam Hutchinson, attorney
for the parties interested, -

-

1.182

-

5.00

-

10,037.361
$10,043.55

1818.
March 14, By balance due the. estate, as per last
return,
"
"

.

.

..

.

cash received of adm'r L. Hammond, cash received of adm'r Win. Hall, it
being the balance of his bond and
interest, after deducting $ 200, under
a compromise of, a land case, -

9,966.971
180.00

246.45
10,393.421

Deduct amount from the other side,

349.873
10,043.55

Amount balanced,
$10,043.55
The account current, received in the ordinary's office on the
oath of Samuel Savage, executor, the 22d April,. 1818, and find
vouchers for-every item marked with the letter V on the left hand

margin.

Jxo. SimxiNs, 0. E. D.

At the time of filling this account, there was filed also the following receipt : "Received of Samuel Savage, executor of the estate of Win. F.
Taylor, deceased, the sum of ten thousand and thirty-seven dollars
and thirty-six and one quarter cents, in full of his actings and doings
on the said estate up to this date, as per his account current this
day rendered to the ordinary of Edgefiold district. I say, received
by me this twenty-second of April, anno Domini 1818.
SAMUEL TAYLOR,
RAINEY, and
MARY RAINEY, his wife.
Per ADAM HUTCHINSON,
WILLIAM

Their .Sttorney."
These acc6unts of Savage have been stated together, in order
not to make a break in the narrative. It will be necessary now to
go back in the order of time.
On the 14th of February, 1815, Savage applied, by petition, to
one of the judges of the Court of Equity in South Carolina for authority to loan out the funds of the estate, praying the court to make
such order as might seem equitable and just. Whereupon the

238

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. V. Benham.

court passed an order that the petitioner should lend out the money
on a credit of twelve months, on such good security as- he might
approve of.
At some time in the year 1815, Samuel Taylor came to the
United States.
On the 9th of February, 1816, he executed the following paper

-

City of .itgusta:
" Whereas, Samuel Savage, one of the executors of the last will
and testament of William F. Taylor, late of Edgefield district,
South Carolina, deceased, and Samuel Taylor, brother of the said
William F. Taylor,-deceased, for himself, and in behalf of his sis"GEORGIA,

ter, Mary Rainey, and her husband, William Rainey, of Scotland,
being desirous of adjusting the affairs of said estat6, so far as have
come to the 'hands of the said Samuel Savage, consent and agree
that the said executor shall pay over to the said Samuel Taylor, at
this time, as much money as he can spare, and on or before the first
of April ensuing, to pay over all the moaey that may be collected
on account of said estate. The said Samuel Taylor, for himself,
and in behalf of his said sister Mary and her said husband, doth
hereby consent and agree, on receiving from the said executor all
the moneys that can be collected by the first of April next, to allow
the said executor two years from this time to clo -e the remaining
business of said estate ; and for the money heretofore deposited in
the Bank of Augusta, and which has since been put out at interest,
no interest will be required of the said executor for said money during the time the same remained in bank; and [on] all moneys which
may be collected hereafter by the said executor, no interest will be
requited, provided the same shall be paid over to the said Samuel
Taylor, or his lawful agent, in a reasonable time after the same shall
have been collected. The said executor hath permission to compromise all d6ubtful claims or debts due to the said William F.
T, loi in his lifetime, or any litigated cases relating to the recovery
of lands in South Carolina.
"Given under my hand, this 9th of February, 1816.
SAMUEL

TAYLOR,

For himself, and for my sister,

"Test:

MARY RAINEY, and
WILLIAM IRAINEY, her husband.
NICHOLAS WARE." -

On the day of the execution of the above, namely, the 9th of
Februaryf 1816, Savage paid to-Taylor $ 5)300, and on the 26th
of March following, the further sum of $ 4,700, both of which are
entered in the account settled on the 3d of February, 1817, with
the Court of Ordinary.
On the 2d of April, 1816, Samuel-Taylor executed a power of

JANUARY

TERM,, 1847.

239

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

atto "y to Adam Hutchinson -and Peter Bennock, or either of
them, authorizing them to receive on behalf of his sister, Mary
Rainey, and her husband, William Raihey, all sums of money which
were, are, or may become due and owing to the estate of the late
William F. Taylor, and to sue for or prosecute all actions necessary for the recovery of a real estate in the State of Kentucky
belonging to him, the said Taylor, and his sister.
On the 26th of September, 1817, Savage addressed a-letter to
Taylor, representing that there was great difficulty in .collecting
money due to the estate, his anxiety to brinj the matter to a settlement, that during the winter he would be able to pay three or four
thousand dollars, but that he must advance it out of money arising
from the sale of a tract of land of his own, &c., &c., &c.
On the 22d of April, 1818, Savage paid to Hutchinson the sum
of $ 10,037.36, as already mentioned.
In 1818, Savage went to Kentucky, and we pass on to the other
branch of the complainants' claim; namely,
2. Transactions respecting Kentucky lands.
In order to understand the position of William Forbes Taylor,
the testator, with regard to these lands, it will be necessary to recur
to the original and subsequent titles.
On the 25th of May, 1786, Patrick Henry, governor of Virginia,
in consideration of six land-office treasury-warrants, as well as by
virtue and in consideration of a military warrant under the king of
Great Britain's proclamation of 1763, granted to Daniel Broadhead,
junior, a tia't of land containing four thousand four hundred acres,
beginning, &c., &c., &c.
On the 30th of "September, 1786, Broadhead conveyed the land
to William Forbes, of the city of Philadelphia, in consideration of
the sum of £ 183, Pennsylvania currency.
On the 19th of February, 1794, Forbes conveyed the land to
John Phillips, for the consideration of £37 1Os.
Ou the 3d of June, 1802, John Phillips conveyed the same land
to Mary Forbes, widow and administratrix of William Porbes, deceased, in trust for the right heir or heirs of the above-named William Forbes. The consideration was one dollar.
On the 17th of September, 1805, Mary Forbes, widow, and administratrix, conveyed the land to William Forbes Taylor, of Soutfi
Carolina, in trust for the right heir of William Forbes, deceased.
The consideration was one dollar.
In 1808, Taylor went to Kentucky and caused. about thirty
ejectments to be brought against the occupants of the land.
In 61 1, William F. Taylor died.
On the 14th of September, 1815, Mary Taylor, otherwise
Rainey, and her husband; William Rainey, executed a power of
attorney to Patrick McDowell and Samuel Taylor, authorizing
them to sue for, &c., all houses' and lands which belonged to Wil-

240

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v, Benham.

]iam Forbes. The power contained the recital of a pedigree, by
which Mary Taylor claimed to be the niece and one of the heirs
of William Forbes, deceased, and of his intestate son, Nathaniel
Forbes.
In 1818, Samuel Savage, the executor of Taylor, went to Kentucky, and whilst there executed two deeds, one to Alexander
McDonald and others, and one to Zachariah Peters and others, for
portions of the land in question. The sums which he is stated in
the deeds to have received are $800 in one case, and $ 1,318 in
the other.
In 1818, Savage "removed from South Carolina to Tennessee,
and afterwards to Alabama.
In 1836, William Primrose, who had married Eliza Taylor, the
daughter of Samuel Taylor, went to Kentucky and made a-compromise with many of the settlers on the land.
In June, 1857, Primrose visited Savage in Alabama and inquired what had become of the Kentucky lands, to which Savage
replied that they had n~ver been sold ; but upon the production of
the two deeds above mentioned, admitted that he had executed
them, but denied that he had ever received any money for them.
In December, 1837, Savage died, and George M. Savage became his executor.
On the 1st September, 1838, the- bill in this case was filed by
Samuel Taylor, William Rainey, Alexander Rainey, and Elizabeth
Rainey (all of whom were aliens, residing in Scotland), against
George M. Savage, the executor of Samuel Savage, deceased.
The bill states that William F. Taylor, who was a* native of
Scotland, but a naturalized citizen of the United States, died in the
Edgefield district, in South Carolina, about the year 1811, having
first made his last will, which was duly proved and admitted to
record before the Court of Ordinary in the Edgefield district, on the
11th day of August, 1811, and appointed Patrick McDowell,
Dunean Matheson, William Ross, and Samuel Savage his executors, who, on the said 11th August, 1811, were duly qualified as
such, and took upon themselves the trust reposed in them.
By the provisions of the will, the bill further states, after the
payment of sundry legacies, all of which it is suggested were paid,
the testator gave, granted, and devised all the remainder or residue
of his estate, remaining after tfie payment of said legacies, to his
biother, Samuel Taylor, of the parish of DrumBlait, and shire of
Aberdeen, in Scotland, and to his sister, Mary Taylor, of the same
place; share and share alike ; provided, that both of them were alive
at the time of the testator's death, and have issue, which issue, after
the respective deaths of his brother and sister, were to share the
same equally ; but if either of them should die without issue, then
the survivor, or, if both should be dead, the issue of said Samuel and
Mary, were to be entitled to the whole of the remainder or residue
of said estate, share and share alike.

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

241

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

The bill further states, that the.residuary legatees were alive at
the time of the testator's death that they were both legally married, and respectively had issue ; that the sister, Mary Taylor, is
dead, and that the complainants, William, Alexander, and Elizabeth
Rainey, are her issue.
The bill further states, that the executors executed their trusts
severally ; that Matheson and Ross departed this life, the first in
1812, and the last in 1816 ; that the principal part of the business
appertaining to the estate in Georgia was under the management of
McDowell, and that in South Oarolina under that of Savage ; that
Matheson and Ross fully settled their accounts in their lifetime, and
that the balances due from them have been fully paid to the complainants.
The bill further states, that the bulk of the testator's estate was
in South Carolina, and was managed, as befbre mentioned, by Savage, and that an amount.of property belonging to the estate, equal
in value to $ 100,000, went into Savage's hands, of which the sum
of fifty thousand dollars has never been accounted for.
The bill further states, that, at the time of the testator's death,
Savage was justly indebted to him, on open account; as stated on
the testator's books, in the sum of $ 789.70, which was never noticed in the inventory of Savage as returmed to the ordinary ; that
he received, in cash on band at the time of the testator's death, the
sum of $ 681.7.5, of which no return was ever made by Savage ;
and that Savage fraudulently concealed his indebtednbss, and the
receipt of the last-mentioned sum of money. In proof 'of these
statements, an inventory and appraisement of the effects of the testator in South Carolina are exhibited, from which, it is alleged, it
will appear that no returns were made of the last-mentioned liabilities, and from which it will also appear, as it is further alleged, no
returns were made of debts due to the estate, although a large
•amount of debts due-by bond, note, and account came to Savage's
hands.
Th6 complainants charge, that there is no account of sales returned to the Court of Ordinary by Savage ; that a large quaniity of
valuable land in South Carolina was sold by the" executors, the proceeds of which, to the amount of several thousand dollars, went into
Savage's hands, and have never been accounted for ; that they have
examined the records of the said Court of Ordinary, and cannot find
that any final settlement was ever made therein by Savage ; that
only partial accounts were rendered by him, of which they file
transcripts as exliibits, marked from 1 to 10 ; that an item of
10,037.55, in exblit 10, which is alleged to have been paid to
the attorney in fact of the complainants, is untrue ;. and they require
proof, not only of the payment, but of the authority of Hutchinson
(the person to whom it purports to bale been paid), to receive it ;
that the exhibit 10 appears to be the last attempt, on the part of
VOL. V.

21

242

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v.

Benham.

Savage, to render an account ; and they charge the fact to be, that
Savage retained $3,232.31, for commissions and travelling expenses, without charging himself with any interest on the amount
of money received by him, which alone would amount to the sum
of $ 5,000, up to the time that Savage alleges it to have been paid
qyer by him to the legatees ; and that amount, at least, with interest
th. the time of filing the bill, the complainants claim as their ubdisputed right.
The complainants further charge, that in the year 1818 Savage
removed to Tennessee ; that, in the same year, he went to Kentucky, where the testator had lands to a large amount and of great
value ; that he then fraudulently represented himself to be the only
surviving executor of the said estate, although McDowell was still
living ; and that, regardless of the provisions of the will requiring
the lands to be sold on a credit of one, two, and three years, with
securities and a mortgage on the premises sold, Savage sold for
cash 1,059 acres of the land for the sum of $2,118 ; in proof of
which they refer to exhibits D and C, which are copies of deeds
executed by Savage to Alexander McDonald and others, to Zachariah Peters and others, of record in Kentucky.
They charge these lands to have been then worth eight-dollars
per acre, and would have-sold for that, if the terms of thb will'had
been complied with ; and that the lands were worth at the time of
filing the bill forty dollars an acre.
They further state that Savage, shortly after these sales, removed
to Lauderdale county,' Alabarna, where he resided until his death,
which occurred about the month of December, 1837 ; that he never
made any.r~turn of said sales, but- fraudulently concealed them from
the" complainants ; thatPrimrose, the attorney in fact of the complainants, inquired of Savage, a few months before his death, if any
thing had ever been done with the Kenfficky lands, and that he
fraudulently answered that they were unavailable, and had never
been sold ; which statement he continued, t6 make until the deeds
were shown to him, and he then acknowledged he had sold them.
They further state, that the quantity of lands actually embraced
in the deeds C and D was dt least two hundred acres more than
the quantity mentioned therein ; that besides the lands above referred to, the testator had, in Kentucky, other lands to the amount
of thirty thousand acres, more or less, of the value of $ 500,000, all
of which cbuld have been' sold by Savage, or by proper diligence
secured to the estate ; that he neglected to attend to the last-mentioned lands ; that after they were secured to the testator by judgments at law, bills in chancery were filed by the settlers thereon, in
the Kentucky courts, and through the gross neglect of Savage, decrees were permitted to go in their favor, and the lands were lost.
They further state, that George M. Savage had become the personal representative of Samuel Savage, and they make him a defendant to the bill.

JANUARY

TERMf, 1847.

243

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

Finally. They pray for an account, and that the defendant, the
executor, be decreed to pay the amount due from Samuel Savage ;
that he be decreed to pay either the actual value of the'Kentcky
lands sold by Samuel Savage, or their present ialue, with interest ;
together with the value of the lands lost by Samuel Savage's
negligence.
On the 25th March, 1839, George M. Savage, the defendant,
filed his answer.
The answer denies that Samuel Savage undertook the execution
of the will or the trusts therein, as regarded any property or effects
whatever of the testator, or other duty, beyond the limits of South
Carolina. On the contrary, as far as he had knowledge or belief,
the will was never admitted to record or proven in any other State
than South Carolina, nor did the executors qualify in any oth er
State ; and he expressly states, that they did not qualify, n6r was
the will ever proven or recorded, in Kentucky, to the defendant's
knowledge ; nor was it the right or duty of the executors .to interfere with the testator's property situated in any foreign jurisdiction,
beyond the limits of South Carolina, where-the testator was domiciled at the time of his death."
The answer declines admitting that Samuel or Mary T aylor, or
either, took any estate or interest in the property of the testator
under the will, or that they are in any manner entitled under the
same. On the contrary, he charges that the bequests in the will
are v6id, and vest no interest or estate either in the said Samuel or
Mary, either as legatees or otherwise, or in the complainanfs. Nor
is it admitted that the complainants are the next of kin, having right
to prosecute this suit ; but, on the contrary, the supposed claim of
Mary Taylor could only be prosecuted through the authority of her
personal representative, legally appointed in the courts of the
United States.
The defendant further states, that it is not true that the principal
part of the business of the estate in South Carolina was under the
management of Samuel Savage, exclusively; on the contrary, the
four executors jointly executed and filed in the Court of Ordinary
of the Edgefield district a true and perfect inventory of the estate,
together with an account of sales of both real and personal estate,
as appears by the exhibits L and M.
The defendant further states, that SamueI Savage had nothing to
do with the estate in Georgia ; that the property both real and personal in South Carolina, which came or ought to have come to the
hands of the said Savage, was truly accounted for; as also appears
b.y exhibits L and M, and the various settlements made by Savage
from time to time in the Court of Ordinary, which are contained in
exhibit N.
The defendant denies that there was any property or estate, or
other effects- of the testator, in South Cdrolina, which was not accounted for in the said aowrt.

244

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor el al. v. Benham.

The defendant denies that $1 00,000 of the testator's estate went
into Savage's hands, full fifty thousand of which was never accounted for. On the contrary, the before-mentioned records exhibit a full and complete account of all property or effects which
came or ought to have come into Savage's hands ; all of which
has been truly accounted for, and paid over to Samuel and Mary
Taylor, or their agent.
The defendant denies thb indebtedness of Savage for the account
of $ 789.70.
The defendant also denies the allegation in the bill, that Savage
received $ 681.75, cash on hand, at the testator's death.
The defendant a]lso denies the charge of fraudulently concealing
the before-mentioned items of indebtedness from complainants.
The defendant, further answering, states that the exhibit L corresponds with exhibit B in the complainant's bill, and denies that
no return of debts due to the estate was made to the court by the
executors ; on the contrary, he avers that Samuel Savage and Ross,
in January and February, 1812, severally returned and filed in the
said court an inventor of the bonds, notes, accounts, and other
claims due to the estate, as appears by exhibits 0 and P in the
answer, which include all that was due from all sources, as. far as
the defendant has heard, knows, or believes.
The defendant, further answering, denies the allegation in the
bill, that no account of sales was ever returned to the ordinary by
Samuel Savage ; on the contrary, the records show a complete and
full return of sales, of both real and personal estate, made by Savage and the other executors.
The defendant also denies that a large quantity of valuable
land in South Carolina was sold by the executors, and that the
proceeds, to the amount of several thousand dollars, went into,
the hands of Samuel Savage ; on the contrary, the executors sold
no lands in South Carolina but what are fully accounted for to the
said court.
The defendant insists that Samuel Savage, as the executor ii
South Carolina, on the 22d April, 1818, made a full, fair, and final
settlement of.all his transactions with said estate in the said Court
of Ordinary, in presence of Adam Hutchinson, the attorney of the
said Samuel and Mary Taylor ; the accounts of the said Samuel
Savage were then balanced, and the sum due from him paid over
in said court to- the said Hutchinson, as the attorney and agent
aforesaid, as will appear by the exhibit N ; and also by a copy of a
receipt of Samuel Taylor and William Rainey and wife, by the said
Hutchinson, -as their attorney, executed in their name to Samuel
Savage, on the 22d April, 1818, for the sum' of $10,037.36A,
filed as exhibit T.
The defendant denies thai Samuel Savage ever applied the
money of the estate to his private use.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

245

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

The defendant alleges, that the said Samuel Savage stated to him
that he had never made any interest out of the funds of the estate ;
and the defendant asserts that he believes the statement to be true.
The defendant further states, that the complainants can set up no
claim for interest, because, on the 9th of February, 1818, Samuel
Taylor, for himself and his sister, the said Mary Rainey, and her
husband, William Rainey, executed the exhibit S to the said Samuel Savage, which is an agreement, made'under circumstances
mentioned in detail by the defendant, in substance as follows : The said Samuel Taylor, and the said William and lary, agreed
that Samuel Savage should pay over to the said Samuel Taylor, at
that time, as much money as he could spare, anld in the ensuing
April to pay over such other moneys as might be collected on account of the estate ; and the said parties agreed, on receiving all
moneys that could be collected by the first of April ensuing, to
allow the said Samuel Savage two years from that date to close the
remaining business of the estate; that for the money theretofore
deposited in the Augusta Bank, no interest was to be required for
the time the same remained in bank ; and that, on all moneys that
might be cpllected by the said Samuel Savage, no interest was to be
required, provided the same should be paid over to the said Samuel
Taylor, or his agent, in a reasonable time after it was collected.
The defendant further states, that on the very day of the agreement Samuel Savage paid to Taylor, for himself and his sister, the
sum of $ 5,300, as appears by Taylor's receipt. And-on the 26th
March, 1816, he again paid the sum of $4,700, as per Taylor's
receipt ; that Samuel Savage proceeded with all despatch to close
the remaining- business, and in April, 1818, as before stated, made
the final settlement of the estate ; all which, it is insisted, is a complete bar to interest.
The defendant further states, that Samuel Savage did not retain
the sum of $3,232.31 for commission and travelling expenses;
but the exhibit N will show what he did retain, which the defendant
insists was a reasonable sum, and cam6 before the ordinary for examination.
The defendant further states, that as late as March, 1816, Samuel Taylor was satisfied with the manner in which Savage conducted
the business of the estate, as appears by a copy of a letter dated
26th March, 1816, exhibit Z ; that, shortly after the date of this
16tter, Taylor left the United States, having first constituted the
said Adam Hutchinson the agent of the legatees to supervise the
management of the estate, and finally'to settle it; and receive the
moneys. And a copy of the power of attorney to Hutchinson is
exhibited, G, the original beinj destroyed.
From that time no further claim is set up, and the whole business
sleeps for more than twenty years, when this attempt is made to
overhaul the accounts and settlements before the ordinary.
21 *

246

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Benham.

The defendant, therefore, insists,1. That the settlements are absolutely conclusive, and that it is
not competent for any other court to open' and inquire into the correctness or regularity of the proceedings before the ordinary.
2. That, if not conclusive, they are primafacie evidence of the
correctness of the settlements.
3. Upon the statute of limitations and lapse of time, as evidence
that the estate hasbeen settled, and all the moneys paid over.
As to the Kentucky lands, the defendant states he is informed,
and believes, that the testator was not the owner of any lands in that
State at the time of his death, or since ; that a suit was there pending many years before his death for 4,000 or 5,000 acres of land,
and prosecuted till the 8th of January, 1818, when judgments were
recovered, &c., is not denied ; and the defendant has been informed
that Primrose, the pretended agent of the complainants, in the year
1836, made a compromise with the tenants in possession of the said
lands, by which, for an inconsiderable sum, he agreed to release the
claims of the complainants. But if, on investigation, it should be
that the testator had title, then the defendant insists, 1. That that title, upon his death, escheated to Kentucky ; and
that if the lands were ever subject to trusts, such as those in the
will,'the same were lost when the lands escheated, and could not be
enforced, either in law or equity.
2. That the power to sell being a naked power, and having been
.conferred on four executors, could not be executed by one, so as
to convey the title.
The defendant admits that Samuel Savage, in the year 1818, did
go to Kertucky, and that he executed the papers D and C, exhibited in the bill ; but he denies that he fraudulently represented
himself as the only surviving executor ; and he also denies that the
execution of the deeds violated the provisions of the will, or that. he
bad authority, however he may have thought so himself, to convey
the lands under the will.
The"defendant further insists, that the sales were merely void,
and did not affect the rights of the complainants, on another
-ground,- that McDowell, another executor, was alive at the date
of the deeds, and did not join in the conveyance.
The defendant further denies that the- lands in Kentucky were
sold for 'cashb, but for an inconsiderable amount in property.
And, if it shall be material, he pleads, as to the consideration for
the sale of those lands, the statute of limitation and lapse of time.
The defendant admits that Samuel Savage died in November, 1837, in Lauderdale couaty, Alabama, where he was domiciled ; that the defendant is the executor of his will, and is a citizen
of Alabama.
Finally, the detendant pleads to the jurisdiction of the court.
On the-31st May, 1839, the complainants filed an amended bill.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

247

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

They admit therein, that the domicil of the testator was in South
Carolina.
That his father and mother died before his death.
That Samuel Taylor was his only brother, and Mary Taylor his
only sister.
That she intermajried vith William Riney, and had issue the
three other complainants.
That the testator had no kindred in the United States at the time
of his death.
And that the said Samuel and MIary were, at that time, his only
heirs at law.
The complainants further state, that Samuel Taylor visited South
Carolina in 1815, for the purpose of settling with the executors ;
and that he received, in February-and March, 1816, from Samuel
Savage, the sum of $ 10,000, as part of the estate ; but no interest
was paid, for the reasons assigned by him.
That Savage wrote to Taylor, in September, 1817, a letter,
which is exhibited, and -the substance of which is set forth. Exhibit I.
That the legatees never received any moneys afterwards.
That Savage never made a final settlement of his accounts.
That, after his removal from South Carolina, he received at least
10,000 of the money of the estate.
That. since filing th-'- bill, they have received the testator's cashbook, from which it appears that Savage was indebted, as is alleged
in the original bill, at the time of the testator's death.
That the executors did not execute any-bond for the faithful execution of their trusts, &c.
The answer of the defendants was filed on the 19th day of September, 1839, and in almost every particular traverses the allegations
of the amended bill. It need not, therefore, be set forth at length.
These were the issues between the parties.
The District Court, after a careful review of all the points in the
cause, decreed, that the complainants recover of the defendant the
sum of $ 5,212,92, to be levied of the goods and chattels, lands
andtenements, of the said Samuel Savage ; and that the defendant
pay the costs of,the suit.
The above sum of $ 5,212.92. was made up of the principal stim
of $ 2,118 received by Savage on the 21st July, 1818, from the
sale of the Kentucky lands, and interest on that amount from the
said 21st July, 1818, to the commencemen. of the term of the
court when the decree was rendered, amounting to the sum of
$3,094.92.
On the day before the decree was rendered, George i. Savage,
the executor of the last will of Samuel Savage, was removed from
his office of executor by the court in Alabama having .jurisdiction
to make the removal, and Vincent M. Benham was appointed the

248

SUPREME

COURT.

Taylor eAt al. v. Benham.

administrator de bonis non, with the will annexed, of the said
Samuel Savage.
The complainants appealed from the decree, and executed bond
to prosecute the appeal. They complained that the District Court
erred in not decreeing the whole amount claimed by them in their
bill and amended bills. But they ordered execution to issue for the
amount for which the decree was rendered, which was levied on a
large number of slaves, which were claimed as belonging to the
estate of Samuel Savage.
An order granting an appeal to the defendant George X. Savage
was also made by the court, and bond was ordered to be given
within a stipulated time; but in consequence of the removal of
George M. Savage the order could not be executed, and no bond
was executed in conformity with the order.
Upon a motion made to this court by Benham, at the January
term, 1843, the execution that issued on the decree was held to be
a nullity, and an intimation given that the decree was not rendered
against the proper party in the District Court.
On the 4th October, 11844, a bill of reviver was filed by the
complainants against Vincent M. Benham, the administrator de
bonis non of Samuel Savage, and he was brought before the court
by process.
In November following, Benham filed his answer to the bill of
revvor, and a demurrer at the same time.The causes of the demurrer were,1. That the bill of reviver did not state the proceedings and
relief prayed by the original bill.
2. That it did not show or allege that the defendant ever had any
assets belonging to the estate of Samuel Savage.
3. That the defendant, as administrator de boni: non, with the
will annexed, of Samuel Savage, could not be made a party to the
original bill by bill of reviver.
4. That the defendant, as such administrator, was not in privity
with George M. Savage, against whom the decree was rendered ;
and for want of that privity, a bill of reviver would not lie.
5. That the bill of reviver did not show whether the decree was
rendered before the removal of George M. Savage as executor.
The court overruled the demurrer.
The answer stated, that the defendant had no personal knowledge
of the original suit, or of the proceedings and decree therein. It
admitted the removal of George M. Savage from his office of executor, on the 28th November, 1842, and that the defendant, on the
same day, within a few hours afterwards, was appointed administrator de bonis non, with the will annexed, of Samuel Savage, by the
same court. It alleged, that at the time the original decree was
rendered against George M. Savage, the defendant Benham was
the administrator de bonis non.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

249

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

On the 29th November, of the same term, the defendant Benham moved the court to dismiss the suit for want. of prosecution;
which motion was overruled.
The District Court, notwithstanding the defendant's answer, ordered that the decree against -George M. Savage, as executor of
Samuel Savage, be'revived against said Benham, administrator de
bonis non, with the will annexed, of Samuel Savage, and the defendant Benham prayed an appeal.
Upon these cros§ appeals the cause came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. llorehead and ,Mr. Sergeant, for Savage's
administrator, and by ,Mr. Crittenden and ir. Berrien, for Taylor, &c.
Mr. M1Jorehead. I. For the reasons alleged in the defendant's
demurrer to the complainants' bill of revivor, the demurrer "ought to
have been sustained, particularly because it was erroneous to revive
a decree against the -administrator de bonis non, which bad been
rendered against the executor of Samuel Savage. Grout v. Chamberlin, 4 Mass. 611 ;'Allen v. Irwin, 1 Serg. & Rawle, 554;
Alsop v. Mather, 8 Conn..584 ; Carrol v. Connett, 2 J. J. Marsh.
199, 206; Bradshaw v. -ommonwealth, 3 J. J. Marsh. 133;
Graves v. Downey, 3 Mon. 353; Slaughter v. Froman, 5 Mon.
20; Potts v. Smith, 3 Rawle, 361 ; Bank of Pennsylvania v.
Haldeman, 1 Penn. 161 ; Kendall tr. Lee, 2 ib. 482; Hagthorp
v. Hook's Administrators, 1 Gill & Johns. 270.
On the merits : - 1. The bill having been filed with the obvious
design of making the. executor of Samuel Savage liable for the
fiduciary delinquencies of the said Samuel, as one of the executors
of Taylor, it was erroneous to decree against him for the personal
acts and misconduct of the said Samuel. Dance v. McGregor, 5
Humph. 428.
2.- The letters'testamentary granted in South Carolina conferred
no power or authority on the executors of Taylor to act without
the jurisdiction of that State. Carmichael v. Ray, 1 Richardson's
S. C. R. 116; Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 565; Doolittle v. Lewis,
7 Johns. Ch. R. 45, 47; Attorney-General v. Bouwers, 4 Mees.
& Welsby, 171, 190, 191, 192 ; Story on Conflict of Laws, p.
4 25, § 514.
.3. The sale-of the Kentucky lands, therefore, by Samuel Savage, did not- divest the residuary legatees of Taylor of any title they
may have had to those lands, or of any interest in the same.
First. Because the authority conferred by the will on the executors to sell the real estate must have been strictly pursued. Willians v. Peyton's Lessee, 4 Wheat. 77 ; Wiley v. White, 3 Stewart & Porter, 355; 4 Johns. Ch. R. 368; 6 Conn. 387; 2
Swinbume, 730, note ; 10 Pet. 161.
Secondly. Because the authority, being'joint, could not be exe-

2ro

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al.- v. Benham.

cuted and performed by one only. Halbert v. Grant, 4 Mon. 582;
Smith v. Shackelford, 9 Dana, 472 ; Johnston v.Thompson, 5
Call, 248 ; Carmichael v. Elmendorff, 4 Bibb, 484 ; 14 Johns.
553 ; Co. Litt. 112, b.
4. The devise of the testator's rel estate to be sold conferred
an authority by implication on the executors to sell. Anderson v.
Turner, 3 A. K. Marsh. 131. But it was a naked authority, uncoupled with an interest; and the lands, until the sale was made,
descended to the heirs at law of the testator. Ferebee v. Procter,
2 DevE & Bat. 439; King v. Ferguson, 2 Nott & McCord,
588 ; Shaw v. Clements, I Call, 429 ; Warneford v. Thompson,
3 Ves. jr. 513 ; Hilton v. Kenworthy, 3 East, 557 ; Co. Litt.
236, 112, 113, 181 ; 2 Sugden on Powers, 173, 174.
5. The will of William F. Taylor was never offered for probate,
or proven in Kentucky by Samuel Savage, or-by either of the executors. As to the real estate, therefore, which was in Kentucky,
William F. Tayfor died intestate. Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 565 ;
McCormick v. Sullivant, 10'Wheat. 202 ; Carmichael v.Ray, 1
Rich. S. C. R. 116 ; Smith v. Shackelford, 9 Dana, 472. And
the lands deseenided,'of eourse, to his heirs at law.
The complainants were his heirs at law, as well as residuary legatees, and they were, at the time of the testator's 'death, aliens. It
follows, that they could not take the Kentucky lands, which fell by
escheat to that "commonwealth without officefound. Montgomery
v.Dorion, 7 N. Hamp. 475 ; NIooers v. White, 6 Johns. Ch.R.
36G); Doe v. Jones, 4 T. R. 300; Doe v. Acklam, 2 Barn. &
Cres. 779 ; Doe v. Mulcaster, 5 Barn. & Cres. 771 ; Sutliff
. Forgey, 1 Cow. 89 ;,Dawson's Lessee v. Godfrey, 4 Cranch,
2, b.
Co. Litt.
321
"6.; That
the complainants
have disaffirmed the sale made by
Samuel Savage of the Kentucky lands, by having since sold and
conveyed the same lands. This they could not do and still insist
or Savage's liability for the sale made by him. If he sold the lands
in Kentucky in violatio.n of his trust, the beneficiaries of Taylor
cannot demand to have the lands and also the purchase-money received for.them. By following the title to the lands they repudiate
tl e sale made by Savage. Murray v. Ballou, I Johns. Ch. R.
581; 2 Johns. Oh. R. 445; Story on Eq. Jurisp. 505-507 ; 5
Ves. jr. 800.
7. That in April, 1818, a.final settlement was made-in the
proper court in South Marolina of all the official transactions of
Samuel Savage, as- executor of Taylor, and that such settlement
could only be impeached or disturbed by 'surcharging and falsifying
the same by specific allegations and proofs of error or omission.
Wooldridge's Heirs v. Watkin's. Executor, 3 Bibb, 352 ; Quinn
v.Stockton, 2 Litt. R. 346 ;- Vances Administrators v.Vance's
Distributees, 5 Mon. 521 Preston,.Exoeutor, v.Gressom's Dis-

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

2!

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

tributees, 4 Munford, 110; Owens v'. Collinson, 3 Gill & Johnson, 25.
8. That William F. Taylor had no title which he could tranqmit by will to the lands devised to be sold, he being a trustee only,
holding the legal title for the use and benefit of others, not parties
to this suit.
9. That the District Court of Alabama had no jurisdiction to
adjudicate upon the matters contained in the bill and amended bill
of the complainants. It was manifestly a suit against the executor
of Samuel Savage, for a final settlement of the fiduciary accounts
and transactions of the latter as executor of Taylor. 'The courts of
South Carolina alone had jurisdiction of the matters in controversy
between the parties, and the District Court ought to have dismissail
the complainant's suit. Vaughan v. Northup's Administrators, s 6
Pet. 1 ; Story on Conflict of Laws, §§ 513, 514, to the end, pp.
422- 426.
Mfr. Critzenden, for Taylor, &c., relied upon the following points
and authorities.
1. That the peremptory direction given in the will of William
F. Taylor, to sell his lands, &c., is equivalent, in every equitable
sense, to a devise to his executors and the survivor of them, with
authority to sell, and will equally prevent an eschbating of the land.
,7 Dana, 1-12, &c.
. 2. That although it was a prerequisite to his legal authority to
sell the Kentucky lands, that he (Samuel Savage) should have oJtamined letters testamentary in Kentucky ; yet, if without it he took
upon himself to act under the will of his testator, to make sales and
receive money on them, as executor, he cannot, because of that irregularity, excuse himself from his responsibility to the complainants, the legatees, for that money so received ; as executor he - received it, and as executor he must account for it. 7 Dana, 349.
Their authority was from the will. 7 Dana, 351-355.
3. That the least measure of his responsibility is the amount of
money he received, as executor,.n the sales of Kentucky lands
made by him as executor, and that he cannot be allowed to evade
that by any impeachment of the salei made by himself.
4. That having undertaken to act in reference to said lands in
Kentucky, he was bound to fulfil his undertaking and the trust assumed by him, and is responsible for the damage or loss of land
occasioned by his failure so to do, and by his inattention and negl
gence. 7 Dana, 349.
5. That, in respect to the land in Kentucky which he did sell,
he is liable for the fair value of it, or the price at which he could
have sold it at the time, which was much greater than the price at
which he did Sell.
6. That the removal of Samuel Savage from the State of South

.252

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Benham.

Carolina; the residence of the complainants in a foreign and distant
land, and the coverture and infancy of some of them ; the misstatements, equivocations, and fraud of the said Savage, and his concealments from the complainants of'his transactions in respect to said
lands, especially, exclude him from all benefit or advantage from
lapse of time or the statute of limitations. 1 Madd. Chan. 98, 99 ;
2 ibid. 308-310; 10 Wheat. 152 ; 1 Sch. & Lef. 309, 310, 428
-431, 413-442; 2 ibid. 629, &c.
The money received by Savage, as executor of Taylor, for land
sold by him as executor, ought to be accounted for by him as other
moneys arising from the estate of his testator. He did so account
for the proceeds of the land sold in Carolina. And why should he
not for the proceeds of the Kentucky lands ? He charged the estate for going to Kentucky to attend to those lands, &c. He did
give some attention to, and did sell a portion of, them. And what,
now, are the objections made to his"responsibility ? They are, in
substance, 1st. That he was not bound to attend to them, as executor only
in South Carolina
2d. That complainants were aliens, and that the land escheated
on the death of the testator, Taylor.
3d. That complainants have lost or waived all right by the statute
of limitations and lapse of time.
4th. That they have lost or waived all right of recovery against
him by the compromises and sales made by their agent, Primrose.
To the first, it is deemed a sufficient answer to say, that he did
assume and undertake to attend to those lands, and was paid for it.
And that was enough to 'charge him for a due responsibility for his
performance of his undertaking, - to charge -him as agent or executor de son tort, if not otherwise. 7 Dana, S49, 351 - 355.
But, moreover, he was in the nature of a trustee under the will,
and having undertaken the trust by assuming the office of executor
in South Carolina, he was bound to fulfil the whole trust by proving
the will in Kentucky, or by doing whatever else was necessary to a
cbmplete and faithful performance of it.
The testatpr contemplated this, as is clearly inferable from his
will. Savage was not.-ierely an executor, in the ordinary sense,
but as to the lands of the testator he was in the condition of a
trustee. And, accepting the tru~t, he must perform the whole of it,
as much as if he had accepted die same trust created by deed instead oFYill. The power given by the will, in respect to the lands,
is different from and collateral to the mere official power of an executor, and constitutes him in effect a trdstee whose powers and
duties are not governed by the rules or laws which regulate mere
executorial duties. His duties in the one case depend on the laws
which regulate his office ; in the other, on the nature of his contract
or undertaking.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

253

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

-As to the second objeciion, that the lands eseheated, &c., the
answer is, that it is too late to urge that defence against his own act
inselling them and receiving money for them.
But it is, moreover, insisted that the lands did not escheat. I
is settled that lands devised to he sold and the money paid to alien,
do not escheat. Cfaig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat. 563 ; Craig v. Rad
ford, 3 Wheat. 594.
The direction given in this case to hell is a trust inthe contemplation of a court of equity, and will be enforced as such, just as
if the land had been devised on trust for the same purposes.
1 Madd. Chan. .55 (56) ; Harding v. Glyn, 1 Atk. 469; Clay
& Craig v. Hart, 7 Daila, 1-12, &c..; Co. 'Litt. 113 a, and
note- (2), which see ; 3 Co. Litt. 146, note, 113 a ; 2 Sugden,
173.
And even the non-execution of the powers would not defeat the
trust ; the general rule in equity is, "that a trust shall never fail of
execution for want of a trustee," &c. 1 Madd. Chan. 455 -458;
Co7 Litt., and note, as above referred-to ; 2 Atk. 223.
As to the third objectibn, neither the statute of limitatiofr norlapse of time apply to this case. The circumstances of the case,
and the fraud and concealment, exclude them from any operation on
the case. The suit was brought immediately on the discovtry o:
the cause of action. 1 Madd. Chan. 98, 99 ; 2 ibid. 308, 310 ;
Elmendorf'v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; 1 Sch. & Lef. S09, 310,
428, 431, 413-442; 2 ibid. 629, &c.
Fourth objection'. The facts answer this, and it seems but a
mockery to insist on the last desperate effort at compromise as releasing defendant.
Mr. Berrien, on th&same side with Mr. Crittenden.
It is objected by the opposing counsel, that this decree cannot
be revived against defendant, because, as administrator de bonis non,
he has no privity with George M. Savage, the executor of Samuel.
But what are the facts in the case ?'
(Mr. Berrien here reviewed the facts, and then proceeded.)
The privity which is necessary in this case is privity with Samuel
Savage, against whose estate the decree was rendered, and out of
whose assets it was payable.
If a decree is obtained against an executor, for the payment of a
debt of his testator, and his representative does not become -the
representative of the testator, the suit ma -be revived against the
representative of the testatoi -and the assets may be pursued in his
hands, without reviving against the representative of the original defendant.
If George Mf. Savage bad died intestate, his administrator would
not have been the representative of Samu6l Taylor. In this event,
this suit might have been revived againist th6- administrator de bonis
VOL. V. 22.

254

SUPREME- COURT.
Taylor e.

non of Samuel Ta:-lor.

al. v. Benham.

Story's Eq. P1. § 370 ; XIitf. Eq. Pl. by

Jeremy, 78 ; Johnson V. Peek, 2 Ves. 465.

Then having been removed from office, under the statute of Alabama, - having no representative who -can represent the estate of
Samuel Thylor, - it is only against his administrator de bonis non
that this proceeding can be had ; or there is a right iudicially ascertained, without a remedy.
As to the Kentucky lanes.
The .first objection is, that the District Court of Alabama, acting
as a-Circuit Court, had not jurisdiction of this case. When I en'counter an argument, leading to a conclusion from which the intelligence of professional men miqst, in my judgment, revolt, however it
may seem to be supported by authority, I am disposed rather to
distrust my own capacity to detect its fallacy, than to yield to the
conclusion to which it would lead me. I am sure I am not singular
in. this feeling. Let- us examine the conclusion to which the argument would dead.
Samuel Savage left the State of South Carolina in 1818, removed first to Tennessee, and afterwards to Alabama; where he settled permanently, and died.
After 1818, he was not suable in South Carolina.
Not in the State courts. It does not appear that he was ever
there after that time ; and if he had been transiently there, com,plainants, aliens, residents in a foreign country, were not required
to be on the watch to catch him there. No original process issued
by the State courts of South Carolina, which was not personally
served, could have rendered a citizen of Alabama amenable to their
jurisdiction.
Not in the courts of the United. States in the District of South
Carolina, for the words of the Judiciary Act of 1789 are, - " No
civil suit shall be brought i the courts of the United States against
a defendant, by any original process, in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the
time of serving the writ."
The conclusion, from the proposition of defendants, then, is this,
-that
until Samuel Savage chose to go to .South Carolina, and
subject himself to the service of process, he was not liable .to-suit
anywhere ; that complainants were remediless, or that their right
to a remedy depended upon the will of their :adversary. Is the jurisprudence of the United States subject to this reproach ? Has
this court pronounced any decision which may, by fair construction,'
lead to such a, consequence ? This is said to-be the age of progress'; but is it a progress in intelligence, or its opposite ? What
is the reference to authority on this point ?
(,Mr. Berrien here examined and commented on 14 Peters, 166;
Story's Conflict of Laws, §§ 513, 514,; 15 Peters, L.)
We are seeking to. obtain from this defendant, as administrator do

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

255

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

bonii non, the balance which was in the hands of Samuel Savage
of the estate of W. F. Taylor, of which we are legatees. We
charge him, and'we prove our charges, with fraudulent concealment
of the assets which came to his hands ; 'and we seek to make his
estate, in the hands of defendant, -liable for his individual personal
default ; and this right, with the aid of a court of equity, we can
enforce wherever we find him.
If he had remained in South Carolina, we would of course have
sought redress there, and in its courts. But he voluntarily withdrew
from the protection of those courts. He was a fugitive from justice, liable to arrest wherever he was found.
The bill, it is said, seeks an account ; but not that merely. It
alleges fraud and concealment; it charges* Samuel Savage with official misconduct, for which it holds him to individual responsibility ;
it does not ask him to pay for these frauds out of the assets of W.
F. Taylor,.which he has wasted, but out of his own estate, into
which those assets have been converted.
The proposition, that the courts of South Carolina have exclusive jurisdiction, cannot be urged as an objection to the jurisdictioh
of the Circuit Court of Alabama. Their exclusive jurisdiction is
over the pubject-matter, - the. administration. The executor is
personally amenable to the forum of his domicile. There he may
rely on a settlement and discharge by the courts of South Carolina,
as having exclusive jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and the acts
of the court of South Carolina should have like effect in the court
of Alabama as they would have had in the State in which they were
rendered; but this is the extent of the exclusive jurisdiction which
can be claimed for them, in behalf of an executor who is a fugitive
from their borders.
The third, fourth, and fifth points of the respondent's statements
will be considered jointly.
1. The order of testator, that his lands should be sold, - especially that they should be sold on "securities to the satisfactiofi of his
executors," - gave to them a power, an authority to sell, by implicatiu , but as ample as if it had been given by express words.
The appointment of his executors, and the appropriation of the
proceeds of the sales, so to be made by them, to purposes within
the scope of their duties as executors, which he did by the devise
of all the remainder or residue of his estate, after payment of certain legacies, imposed upon them an obligatiori, and charged them
with a trust, - that of so appropriating them.The executors were the agents of the testator, his attorneys, if
you will, but more properly donees of the power conferred on them
by him for the sale of these lands. But they were also trustees of
the devisees, in relation to the fund thus acquired.
They had no
interest in that fund ; btit the authority conferred on them was not,
therefore, a mere naked power. It was a power cohpled with a

256

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Benham.

trust, which it is the peculiar province of a court of equity to
guard and to enforce. 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. §§ 1059-1061.
And a court of equity will construe the will to give them such an
interest as is necessary to the executiQn of the trust.
But we are' seeking to make Samuel Savage, who was only one
of these trustees, alone liable for the faithless execution of his trust,
and we are met with the objection, 1. That the authority and the trust, being joint, could not be executed by one only. There are numerous decisions on this question. 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 1062. The whole doctrine is
Sugdeu on Powers, ch. 3, § 2, art. !,
summed up by Mr. Sugden.
pp. 165, 166 (3d edit.) ; 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. p. 399, in note.
A power coupled with a trust will survive, and may be executed
bya surviving trustee. Osgoodv. Franklin, 2 Johns. Ch. R. 1-21.
Power to executors to sell, not by name, but as executors, may
be executed by one. Clay & Craig v. Hart, 7 Dana, 1.
Where one of several trustees refuses to accept, the power vests
in the others. King v. Donnelly, 5 Paige, 46.
2. It is objected, that as this was a naked power (that is, as
there was no express devise to trustees), the land must have descended to the heirs, to await the exercise of the power ; that as
the will was not proved in Kentucky, and therefore quoad testator's
property in that State he died intestate, it must for that cause also
have descended to the heirs ; and as these heirs were aliens, it
vested by escheat in the State of Kentucky.
The answer is, that a court of equity will carry out the manifest
intention of a testator, will see that this trust is executed according
to such intention, and will raise such an estate by implication in the
trustee as is necessary to accomplish this object. The court will
imply a power to sell in executors'not expressly designated for this
purpose. 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 1060. They will imply such a
power, from an authority to "raise money" out of lands. Ibid.
§ 1063. Nay, they will imply a power to sell, from a power to
raise money out of" rents and profits." Ibid. § 1064. As a power
to sell will be raised by implication, not only without but against the
words of the will, as in the case cited, "rents and profits." As a
trust to appropriate proceeds will in like manner be'implied, in both
cases, to effectuate the iatention of testator, so also where there is
no express devise, implication will not stop short of a fee where
there are trusts to be Qxecuted which require -it. Markham v.
Cooke, 3 Burr. 1686. In Trent v. Henning, 4 Bos. & Pull.
116, the devise to trustees, as well as the trust for sale, was
implied, and yet they took a fee. Fletcher on Est. Trust. I - 4, 19.
I am aware of the cases which decide that a mere naked power
to executors to sell will not give an interest ; -but,
1. This is not a,mere naked power ; tiken in connection with the
devise of the residue, it is a power coupled with a trust.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

257

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

2. It is indispensable, to effectuate the intention of the testator,
that such an interest should pass.
In the cases referred to, the question was between heir and dis-.
tributee, or devisee, or creditors. The land descended to the heir,
subject to the exercise of the power, and the intention of the testator
was accomplished. According to the argument of respondent's
counsel, that cannot be in this case, unless such an interest is held
to pass.
Yes, there is another mode. Land directed to be sold and converted into money loses the quality of real, and is converted into
personal estate, and e converso of money directed to be laid out in
land. .2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 790. In this latter case, anterior
to the sale, and by the mere force of the will, the money so'
fully becomes land as, 1. not to be personal assets ; 2. nor 'to
be subject to- the courtesy of the husband ; 3. nor to pass as
land by will, and other consecuences. So of land directed to be
sold. 2 Story's Eq.. Jurisp.'§ 109, in note; Hawley v. James,
5 Paige, 318.
As to the time when the conversion shall be supposed, Hutcheon v. Mannington, 1. Ves. jr. 365 ; Clay & Craig v. Hart, 7
Dana, 1.
It is objected, that the will was not proved in Kentucky. But
probate was not necessary to the execution of the power, and adds
no force to it, for the probate has no concern with the power, and
relates only to the jurisdiction over the goods and chattels. Doolittle v. Lewis, 7 Johns. Ch. R. 48 ; Lessee of Lewis and wife v.
M'Farland et al., 9 Cranch, 151.
The intention of the testator can be effected, then, in one of two
ways :1. By construing the will so as 'to imply a devise to the executors for the purpose of effectuating the trust.
2. By considering the land as money from the death of the testator, when his will became operative.
The testator was a naturalized citizen. All his relatives were
aliens, and incapable of holding real estate. Aware of this disability, he directs his property, real and personal, to be converted into
money, and bequeathes it to them.- There can be no doubt of his
intention to give to his executors such power as was necessary to
effectuate his will. That will became operative upon his death, and
did not depend upon the probate. The court will imply a power to
sell. They will imply e trust to distribute. Will they not consummate the intention of the testator, either by considering Jte land as
money at the time of his death, or by giving to the trustees such an
estate as is necessary to protect the land from escheat? Craig v.
Leslie, 3 Wheat. 577. The lands. in the possession of.the heir
are held subject to the exercise of'the power. Why should it not
be ii the hands bf the State ? Or is the lord, who takes by es22 *

258

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. r.

Denham.

cheat, more favored than the heir, who takes by inheritance ?
Pawlett v. Attorney-General, Hardres, 465, 469 ; 2 Atk. 223.
But however these questions may be decided, defendant cannot
evade the equitable demand of complainants. Whether this power
was capabld of being executed separately by Samuel Savage, or
whether, for want of an express devisee, it was incapable of being
executed at all, the defendant cannot'escape.
An affirmance of the positions for which we contend will increase
the amount for which he is answerable ; a denial of them will not
release hiin from responsibility. He can only escape by maintaining, that the fraudulent assumption of the 'character of the trustee
of these complainants, the concealment from them of his actings
and doings while professing to act as their trustee, the receipt of
money in that character, the denial of such receipt, and. the conversion of it to his own use, are wrongs which a court of equity is in'competent to redress.
(JMr. Berien here stated and commented on the facts respecting
the Kentucky lands.)
In every event, complainants are entitled to a decree for the
amount actually received by Samuel Savage, and thai with compound interest. It may be admitted that complainants had no title
to the land which they could have enforced, that they have obtained by compromise what they could for the land; still, the money
received by him wcs their money ; it diminishes the amount which
they obtained by.the compromise, it was paid by the tenants of the
land to him, professing to act as their trustee ; it was received by
him in that character, and has been converted by hini to his own
use, and fraudulently withheld from them. A court of equity will
not permit him thus to abuse the trust which he assumed.
An executor is liable for the value of an estate sold by him without authority. Smith et al. v. Smith's Execut6r, 1 Desauss. 304 ;
i Paige's R. 147 ; 6 ibid. 355. He is -liable to no-ound interest
in case of fraud or wilful neglect. Schiefflin v. $vewart, 1 Johns.
.Ch. R. 620 ; Myers v. Myers, 2 McCord's Ch. R. 266 ; 1 Hopk.
R. 423 ; 2 Johns. Ch. R. 1.
Defendant cannot be protected by the statute of limitations from
a decree for this amount. The bill charges, and the evidence
proves, that this transaction was fraudulently concealed from complainants, and there is evidence'to sustain it. Fraud and trust are
not within the statute of limitations, as it does not begin to run until
the fraud is discovered. Kane v. Blo.odgood, 7 Johns. Ch. 'R. 122.
There is an express allegation of the bill as to the time when the
fraud was discovered.
Nor can the question of jurisdiction ever arise, as to this part of
the case. Savage never acted under the authority of any court of
Kentucky, which may be supposed to have had exclusive jurisdiction of this matter.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

259

Taylor et aL v. Benham.

It is submitted, then, that on this part of the case we are entitled
at least to $2,118.00, with interest thereon at Six.per cent. from
21st July, 1818, compounding the same.
As to the estate in South Carolina.
(Mr. Berrien here went into a minute examination of the accounts, which is omitted, as the opinion of the court did not consider the question open.)
To protect himself from this- claim, defendant relies on several
grounds" 1. That-he was not liable to suit in Alabama.
2- That he made a final settlement.
3. The statute of limitations, and lapse of time.
The argument against the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.of
Alabama has been already considered.
The final settlement. A bare inspection of the accounts will
show that it was not final. It was 'not so recognized by the ordinary, but, styled an " account current," and so recorded by theordinary. -The payment of the balance due to Hutchinson, if he
had had power to receive it, would not make it a final settlement.
Hutchinson did pot so receive it. His receipt- is merely for the
actings and doings of Savage up to the date, as per his " account
current," not 1 final settlement."
To make it a final settlement
he should have charged himself with the amount of sales, and interest on each note until it was paid, for the notes given at the sale
-bore interest.
2. The amount of the notes and open accounts found at the time
of Taylor's death, and interest on the former, which came to Savage' s Rossession.
- 3. If any of these were desperate, this should b4ve been stated.
4. He should have. charged himself with interest on the annual
balances remaining in his hands.
Instead of this, it was a mere annual account current, crediting
such receipts as Savage chose to acknowledge, and charging such
payments as he alleged to have made. All that the ordinary did
was to examine the vouchers for the payments. He could make
no final settlement, because there was no exhibit of the assets.
As to the statute of limitations. Fraud and trust are not within
the statute ; it does not begin to run until the fraud i's discovered.
Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch. R. 122 ; 3 P. Wins 144, 145;

2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 1521.

The circumstances must be for-

cible to induce the court to make lapse of time a bar to the iairias
of heirs and legatees for an account and settlement of the estate.
Gist v. Cattel, 2 Desauss. 53. Infancy and coverture will prevent
the statute from running. The children of Samuel Taylor were
infants ; Mary Taylor (Rainey) was a feme covert. Respondents
urge. that complainants are barred by the statute*of limitations of Alabaia, because they did not sue there.within six years, and deny the

260

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al.-v. Benham.

right to sue there at'all. Specific allegations in the bill of fraud,
showing when they were discovered, are equivalent to a general
allegation that they were only discovered within six years.
As to interest. An executor is 'chargeable with interest on the
annual balances kept in his hands, unless they are necessarily kept
for the purposes of the estate. David v. Eden, 3 Desauss. 241.;
Benson vb Bruce, 4 ibid. 463'; Walker v. Bynum, 4 ibid. 555;
Jenkins v. Ficklin, 4 ibid. 369,; 2 Hill, 561, in note.
JMr. Sergeant, for Savage's administrator, replied to Mr. Berrien.
He commented upon the long time that had elapsed since the final
settlement of the estate, upon the cases before referred to in 14 and
15 Peters, and contended that before the complainants below could
recover any thing on account of the Kentucky lands, they must
establish three propositions ; - 1st. That Taylor owned the land;
I2d. That he devised it; and, 3d. That the executors had power to
sell and did sell. Each one of these propositions he denied, and
argued upon at great rength. The deed to Taylor, he contended,
contained a use which was immediately executed and vested the
title in the heir of Forbes, who was some person in Germantown.
The land must therefore have escheated. 2. Taylor did not devise the-land. He might have done so specifically, but did not.
3. The executor had no power to sell. The case of Northup, in
15 Peters, is an exposition of the law upon this subject. The court
in Alabama had no jurisdiction over a foreign executor. An executor can neither sue nor be sued in another State.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original proceeding in this case was 'a bill in equity. The
complainants are heirs and devisees of William F. Taylor, being
aliens and resident in Scotland. He was a naturalized 'citizen of
South Carolina. The respondent was George M. Savage of Alabama, .prosecuted there as executor of Samuel Savage of that State.
The clain set up in the bill was, that William F. Taylor, before
his death in A. ). 1811, made a will, devising the residue of his
estate, after the payment of a few legacies, to the complainants,
directing all his property to be first sold and converted into money,
and making the said Samuel Savage one of his executors, associated with three others. It was further alleged, that the business
was divided- between them, and each had settled for what he took in
charge, except Savage, who had not accounted fully for the property received by him in South Carolina, or the proceeds of certain
lands of William F. Taylor in Kentucky sold by Savage, and that
by his negligence-large quantities of other lands situated there had
been lost.
The original answer denied that the executors took out letters
testamentary, except in South Carolina, or assumed any trusts as to

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

261

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

the property of the testator beyond the limits of that State, or ever
proved the will in Kentucky. It also denied that any part of William F. Taylor's property in South Carolina had not been duly
accounted for. As to lands in Kentucky, it averred that the testator owned none, and, though he set. up some title to about 4,V400
acres, that it was invalid, and was compromised and released by an
agent of the complainants in A. D. 1836. That, as the latter were
aliens, the title in the mean time had escheated to the State ; the
executors having, as alleged, only a bare power to sell, and some
of them dying before A. D. 1818, this power could not be exercised by the others. And though it admitted, that Samuel Savage
in that year executed deeds of about one fourth of the land claimed
by the testator, receiving a small consideration therefor, yet it contended that no title passed thereby, and that. no court out of the
State of South Carolina had any jurisdiction over the matter. The
statute of limitations was also pleaded to all the claims.
Some other particulars,- and some amendments of the answer,
which may be found material in the progress of the inquiry, will be
noticed as occasion shall require.
A preliminary question has been raised in this court, id consequence of what had taken place in the progress of the cause, which
it may be proper to dispose of first. After judgment had been rendered in the Circuit Court in favor of the complainants for a portion
of their claims, and before an appeal was taken, George M. Savage, the executor of Samuel, was removed, and Vincent M. Benham ;ippointed administrator de bonis non of Samuel Savage, with
the will annexed. The cause was then entered in this court, and
attempted to be proceeded in, but was directed to be remitted to
the Circuit Court in order first to make Benham a party (1 Howard, 282, and 2 Howard, 395).
This having been done, the case
came here again, and now it is objected, at the threshold, to any
examination of the original questions in the case, that an administrator de bonis non is not liable for assets in the hands of the deceased executor. See Grant v. Chambers, 4 Mass. R. 611 ;
Alsop v. Marrow, 8 Conn. R. 584; 1 Serg. & R. 549 ; 1 Gill
& Johns. 207 ; and other cases cited.
But if the correctness of these decisions be not doubtful at law,
they may require several exceptions and limitations in equity. See
Blower v. Massetts, 3 Atkins, 773 ; 2 Ves. sen. 465 ; Mitford's
Pleadings, 64, 78 ; 2 Vern. 237 ;. Fletcher's Administrator v.
Wise, 7 Dana, 347; 1 Howard, S. C. 284, in this case. And it
is clear, that under a statute of Alabama, which must, by the thirtyfourth section of the Judiciary Act, govern this case, the objection
cannot be sustained. This statute provides, that " where any
suit may have been commenced, on behalf of or against the personal
representative or representative§ of any testator or intestate, the
same may be prosecuted by or against' any person or persons who

262

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v.' Benbam.

may afterward succeed to the administration or executorship ; such
person or persons may, at any time, be made parties, on motion,
and the cause shall proceed in the same manner, and judgment
therein be in all respects as effectual, as if the same were prosecuted
by or. against the parties originally named." Passed September
4th, 1821. See Clay's Digest, 227.
The grounds or causes for relief presented in the bill are next to
be examined, and are two. One is the claim on account of an alleged failure by Samuel Savage to settle, as executor in South
-Carolina, for a debt due from himself to.William F. Taylor, and
some other debts collected there, with proper -interest thereon.
This is thew first ground on the merits ; and it may be better considered separate from the second one, which is the amount demanded
for alleged neglects and receipts of money by Savage in relation to
the lands situated in Kentucky. The property left by the testator
in South Carolina was held in his own right, and the proceeds of it
vere collected by the executor by virtue of his letters testamentary.
The first objection interposed to the claim respecting* that is, that
in point of fact nothing is shown to have been due or collected
there which the executor did not account for, and finally settle and
pay over the balance, April 22d, 1818. Another is, that if any
thing collected there and then omitted, or not since paid over,
should now be accounted for, it'ought to be in the State of South
Carolina, -where the letters issued, and not in Alabama. Or, at all
events, that some action must first be bad in South Carolina, and the
account reopened, and the new matters examined and charged
there upon Samuel Savage, one of the original exccitors, before he
or George M. Savage, his executor, can be prosecuted elsewhere for
the amount. -The following cases may he referred to in support of
Vaughan et al. v. Northup et al:, 15-Peters, 1;
st,
a position.
1. hPeters,
33 ; Story's Confi. of Laws, 513 ; Aspden et al. v.
Nixon, 4 Howard, 467 ; Carmichael v. Ray, 1 Richa.-tson, 116.
While others may be seen against it in 14 Peters, 116 ; 15 Peters,
119 ; 2 Wash. C. C. 338.
But it is to be recollected, 'that the statute of limitations is
pleaded against this no less than the other claim ; and hence, if, on
examination, that statute, or the great length qf time which has
elapsed since 1818, should be found, under all the circumstances of
the case, to render -a recovery of any part of this claim illegal or
inequitable, a decisive opinion on the other points just mentioned
will become unnecessary.
We therefore proceed to'inquiri into this first.
The settlement in 1818 seems to have been a final one ; the
balance was paid over to an agent of the plaintiff then present;
and the executor, Samuel Savage, soon after left the State, and, for
aught which appears, never returned again. The statute, if running
at all as to the matters in South Carolina, should, therefore, as a

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

263

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

general principle, begin in 1818 ; and any special excuse for not
suing the executor within six years for any thing not then accounted
for, such as coverture, minority, or residence abroad, ought in equity
as well as law to have been set up in the bill originally (7 Johns.
Ch. R. 74) ; or by an amendmefit of it, allowed after the answer,
instead of a special replication, as provided by the 45th rule of this
court. See Marstaller et al. v. M'Clean, 7 Cranch, 156, and Miller v. McIntyre, 6 Peters, 64.
But, notwithstanding this omission, as some doubts exist whether
the statute of limitations can technically apply to a claim situated
like this, we have looked further, - to the circumstances of laches
and long neglect by the complainants,. independent of the statute.
And they seem to us to operate in equity very conclusively against
going back of an executor's account, thus formally and finally settlt d,
after the lapse of twenty years and the death of the parties concerned. Gardner v. Wagner, 1 Baldwin, 394, 454. It must be
a very strong case of fraud, proved in such a settlement, or of clear
accident or mistake, which could ever make it just, under such circumstances, to reopen and revise it. 9 Leigh, 393.
Considering, then, that the agent of the complainants, present at
the final settlement of the account and receiving the balance, hal,
for aught which appears, a full opportuiaLty to know all the circumstances, and make objections if he pleased, and that no fraud or
mistake is shown in the settlement, whatever error in law -may have
happened in computin6 interest, we consider it as a very proper
case for length of time to-bring repose. In support of this may be
seen the following cases. 1 Sch. & Lef. 428 ; 2 ibid. 309 ; 10
Wheat. 152 ; 1 Madd. Ch. R. 99; 2 ibid. 308 ; Miller v.
McIntyre, 6 Peters, 66, 67 ; Cholmondely v. Clinton, 2 Jac. &
Walk. 1 ; 9 Peters, 62 ; 6 John. Ch. R. 266 ; 7 ibid. 90.
The other claim for the money received by Samuel Savage, on
account of his conveyance of a portion of the lands situated in Kentucky, and to which William F. Taylor set up an interest, rests on
principles entirely different, both as regards the title of Taylor and
the responsibility of' Savage. It does not seem to have been bonsidered fully, heretofore, that those lands did not belong to William
F. Taylor, like the rest of his property in South Carolina, absolutely as his own in fee. They came to him by a deed in trust for
others, from Mary Forbes, administratrix of William Forbes, who
was uncle of William Forbes Taylor, and a naturalized citizen of
Pennsylvania, dying without issue except a son, Nathaniel, who'also
died without issue after William F. Taylor's death in A. D. 1811,
and before September, 1815. The facts in the case do not seem to
fix the time with any greater certainty. These lands, amounting to
about 4,400 acres, had been conveyed to William Forbes in fee, in
A. D. 1786, by one lDaniel Broadhead, and by Forbes to John
Philips, in A.'D. 1794. They seem to have remained in Philips's

264

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Benham..

hands till June 3d, A. D. 1802, when he conveyed them to the
said Mary, the administratrix of William Forbes, with the following
limitation in the deed, viz. : in trust, nevertheless, to and for the
only proper use and behoof of the right heir or heirs of the abovenamed William Forbes, deceased, in such way and manner as such
heir or heirs may order, direct, and appoint."
On the 17th day of September, 1805, she, as before mentioned,
conveyed them to William Forbes Taylor, the nephew of her husband, and his only heir or relative naturalized in this country, except the son Nathaniel, the rest being aliens in Scotland, and the
son in such health as not likely long to survive. The lands were,
therefore, in danger of escheating to the State of Kentucky, or a
part f them at least, unless so conveyed as to pass an interest to
sorne person here, which could be held in behalf of those heirs who
might reside abroad, so that their shares might not be lost or forfeited. The limitation in the deed to William F. Taylor from
Mary Forbes was the same in form as that in the conveyance toJher, except the clause creating the trust begins " in witness nevertheless," instead of " in trust nevertheless."
Whether this is
an error of the press, or in copying, or -an intended alteration, is
not stated, but it seems not to have been contended in argument,
that any different meaning was designed to be attached to the
expression. After receiving such a conveyance for such a purpose, it appears that in 1808, William F. Taylor instituted thirtythree suits in ejedtment in the State of'Kentucky against settlers on
these lands, which were pending at his death in A. D. 1811. But,
as the, actions were in the name of nominal lessees, they did not
abate by his death, but continued on the docket till a recovery was
had in all of them, in January, 1818.
Prior to this recovery, and subsequent to the death of William
F. Taylor in 1811, it does not appear that any of his executors, or
any of the heirs of William Forbes, or any of the devisees of William F. Taylor, did any thing respecting these lands, except this.
Samuel Savage, in his administration account rendered in December, 1812, charged for a journey to Kentucky in relation to them.
And on the 14th of September, 1815, Mary Taylor and her husband gave a power of attorney to Patrick McDowell and Samuel
Taylor, to collect her share not only in the estate, of William F.C
Taylor, but in the lands in Kentucky of which she claimed to be
one of the htirs, in conjunction with Samuel Taylor, from Nathaniel,
the son of William Forbes, and their- mother Elizabeth. Samuel
Taylor soon after, in 1816., visited this country, and -on the 2d of
'April .in that year appointed Adati Hutchinson and Peter Bennock
attorneys for himself and sister, not only to collect and receive what
was due to them from the estate of William F. Taylor, but to prosecute all actions necessary to recover the real estate in Kentucky
belonging to him and his sister. But notwithstanding this, and not

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

265

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

exactly in keeping with it, on the 26th of September, 1817, Samuel Savage, rather than these attorneys, writes a letter to Samuel
Taylor about the Kentucky lands, as well as the estate of William
F. Taylor in South Carolina, then unsettled. And to show the
further progress as to these lands after the recoveries in 1818, it
does not appear that any of the heirs or their agents took possession
of them under the judgments, or did any thing in respect to them till
1837. But, on the contrary, Samuel Savage visited Kentucky in
July, 1818, having removed from South Carolina to Tennessee in
May previous, and sold about one fourth of the lands to the occupants for $ 2,118, calling himself, in the deeds, " surviving executor of the last will and testament of William Taylor," and " authorized" to sell by the will. The other occupants, who did not
buy of him, took out soon afterwards injunctions against the judgments recovered, and continued to possess the lands peaceably till
William Primrose, an attorney of the complainants, visited Ken-*
tucky in 1837 to look after their interests.
The previous special attorneys had not interfered, as Hutchinson,
one of them, soon died, and Bennock, the other, declined to act.
And Samuel Taylor, in letters to him in 1824 and 1825, inquiring,
among other things, if Savage had returned to South Carolina and
exhibited any further account of his doings in the ordinary's court,
makes no mention of the Kentucky lands.
Primrose, soon ascertaining that, in 1818, Savage had sold about
eleven hundred acres of them, and the rest had been suffered to
remain in the possession of the former occupants, persuaded the
latter to give him something more for a release or quitclaim, but a
sum, including what had been paid to Savage, not at all equal to
their full value.
It is a very important fact, in connection with this arrangement,
that Primrose, though at first denying the validity of Savage's doings, was compelled, in order to effect a compromise with the occupants and obtain something more on a settlement, finally to agree,
under his hand and seal, in behalf of the plaintiffs, "1as far as it is
in their power to do so, to ratify and confirm the deed made as
aforesaid by the said Savage," but " reserve to themselves the
benefit of all claims they may have -against the said Savage or his
representatives for the consideration which the said Savage received
for the sale of the land aforesaid." After executing the releases,
be visited Samuel Savage, in Alabama, and demanded of him the
money he had received in behalf of the heirs, and indemnity for injuries they had sustained, by his alleged neglect in respect to all the
lands.
Another material circumstance is very, imperfectly stated in the
record; but it is probably thus. When William F. Taylor died,
in 1811, both Nathaniel, the son of William Forbes, and Elizabeth,
VOL. V.

23

266

SUPREME, COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Benham.

the sister of William Forbes, being the mother of Taylor, were
aliens,
On these'facts, it is next to be decided, whether the interests of
the complainants were such in the lands in Kentucky, when Samuel
Savage sold a part of them, in 1818, as to make him liable to the
complainant for his conduct, wherever he might reside ; and, if so,
to what extent. It is first manifest, from a part of the statement,
that the interest of William F. Taylor, at the time of his death,
was only that of a trustee in' these lands, and not as the owner of,
-any portion of them inhis -own right. 'But still, in that capacity,
he had power by his will to direct the sale of them by his executors,. and into whose bands the proceeds should afterwards be
.placed, to be held, of course, for the benefit of the true cestui que
trusts.
The clause in his will, bearing on the sale, is, -"
I do hereby
order, will, and direct, that on the first day of January next after
my decease, or as near that day as can conveniently be, that the
whole of the property that I may die seized and possessed of, or
may be any wise belonging to me, be sold."
This undoubtedly meant to empower the executors to sell the
land he held in trust, as well as that in fee, by including any propert;that may be ".any wise belonging to me.'? But what interest was
thus vested in the executors conceriiing it ? A mere naked power
to sell ? or a power coupled with a trust ? or merely a power
coupled with an interest ? These are necessary inquirics as to the
question made in the case, tihat these lands have escheated to the
State of Kentucky, and also are useful, if not necessary, towards
- settling the validity of the sale by Savage, and the place where, if
liable at all, he can be made to account for the proceeds. To determine these inquiries, it will be necessary to look further into the
will.
In that, after directing the payment of a few small legacies out
of the proceeds of his property, be' proceeds, - " I do hereby
order, give, grant, and devise all the reTnainder or residue of my
estate which shall remain after paying the before-mentioned legacies to Ty dearly beloved brother, Samuel Taylor," &c., 1 and to
niy beloved sister, of the same place, share and share alike, provided they shall be both alive at the time of my decease and have
issue, which issue, after their respective deaths, shall share the. same
equally," &c. On this and the previous provision in the will, coupled
with the facts which have been mentioned, we consider the law to
be, that William F. Taylor, taking this property by a deed which
made it dn express trust in his hands for the heirs of William
Forbes, held it as trustee for them till his death. He then virtually
devised the trust and the lands to the complainants, by directing that
the lands he sold, and, after discharging some special legacies, the
proceeds b&paid over to the complainants, as his residuary legatees.

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

267

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

The executors were thus invested with a power to sell, coupled
with a trust ; and the residuary legatees thus became trustees to the
heia of William Forbes. To identify those heirs is somewhat
difficult, but is very important to a true construction of the will.
Probably, in 1810, they were his son Nathaniel, who, dying between
that period and 1815 without, issue, his grandmother, Elizabeth
Forbes, succeeded to him ; and, on her death about that time, the
complainants, her only surviving children, succeeded to her. As
all these, except Nathaniel, were aliens, and he was in feeble health
in 1$11, the paramount intention of the testator doubtless was to
prevent an escheat of this and his own property. From considerations of affection, as well as duty, he must have desired to secure
both that and his own estate free from escheat in the hands of
those near relatives likely soon to be the heirs both of William
Forbes and himself.
Either of two constructions of his will would accomplish this
object. The one we have just adopted, considering him as devisig the proceeds of the lands, and hence their tide, to his brother
and sister, subject to a power in the executors, coupled with a trust,
to sell them, and pay certain legacies ; or another, which would
consider the power of the executors as one coupled with an interest, and vest the title at once in them for the purpose of selling the
lands and discharging the small legacies and debts, if any, but holding the proceeds in trust to be paid over to his brother and sister,
for the benefit of the heirs of William Forbes, whomsoever they
might then happen to be. See 2 P. Wms. 198 ; 8 Ves. 437;
Lewin on Trusts, 234 ; Peter v. Beverly, 10 Peters, 533. One
of these seemhs, also, to have been the construction put on the will
by Samuel Savage himself, as he proceeded to visit Kentucky
twice to discharge his trust in relation to these lands, and finally sold
about a fourth of them as surviving executor, which be could not
have done honestly, unless deeming himself possessed of more than
the naked power which his executor in his answer now sets up.
In order to survive to him, it must have been a power coupled
either with a trust or an interest. See cases, post. To show that
the executors, by such a devise, became possessed of a power
coupled with a trust at least, reference may be had to the following
cases beside those already cited. 1 Atk. 420, 469 ; 2 Johns. Ch.
254; Clay et al. v. Har, 7 Dana, 1 ; Sugden on Powers, 95,
167 ; 3 Co. Litt. 113, note, 146, 181, a; 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp.
§ 790 ; 5 Paige, 318 ; Zebach v. Smith, 3 Binney, 69. One of
the tests on this subject is, that a naked power to sell may be exercised or not by the executors, and is discretionary; while an imperative direction to sell and dispose of the proceeds in a certain
way, as in this case, is a power coupled with a trust. 7 Dana, 1
10 Peters, 533 ; 12 Wend. 554 ; 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 1070;
10 Ves. 536.

268

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et aL.

Benham.

There are some conflicting cases onthis subject ; but it is not
necessary to review them again, it having been so ably performed
by Thompson, J. for this court in P eters v. Beverly, 10 Peters,
565. There, as here, the executors were not expressly named as
the persons who were to sell the land, yet, say the court, " it is
See also 2
a power vested in them by necessary implication.?
Sim. & Stu. .38 ; 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 1060 ; 1 Atk. 420";
15 Johns. 346 ; 4 Kent's Com. 326 ; 2' Johns. Ch. 254 ; 4
Hill, 492. There, as here, it was also contended, that if they had
the power to sell it was a naked one, and could not survive ; but
the court say, if they had another duty to perform under the will,
with the proceeds, it was a power coupled with a trust or an interest, and survived. 10 Peters, 567 ; 15 Johns. 349.' And the only
difference is, that the subsequent duty to be performed there was the
payment of debts, aid here it was to pay over the money as legacies,
and of course after the payment of any existing debts out of it.
- If William F. Taylor, when making his will, supposed that he, as
trustee of this land, could direct the proceeds to be paid over to
others than the heirs of William or Nathaniel F., the devise
'would none fhe less show his intent to pass to the executors a power
to sell coupled with a trust ; and they would none the less take it
coupled with a'trust. Indeed, if it was necessary, in a case like
this, to carry into effect the leading object of the testator in the will,
to consider him as granting to the executors a power coupled with
an interest, rather than one coupled with a trust, it would not be
difficult to sustain such a Construiction in a court of equity, as we
have before intimatea. Courts, in carrying out the wishes of testators, the pole-star in wills, are much inclined, especially in equity,
to vest all the power or interest in executors which are necessary
to effectuate those wishes, if the linguage can fairly admit it.
4 Kent's Com. 304, 319 ; 10 Peters, 535 ;. Schauher v. Jackson, 2 Wend. 34 ; Bradstreet v. Clarke, 12 ibid. 663 ; Bloomer
v. Waldron, 3 Hill, 365 ; Oates v. Cooke, 3 Burr. 1684 ;
Jackson v. Martin, 18' Johns. 31 ; 1 Ves. sen. 485 ; Coster
v. Lorillard, 14 Wendell, 299.- They are inclined, also, when
considering it a trust, or a power coupled with an interest, to have
its duration and quantity commensurate with the object to be accomplished. Shelly v. Edlin, 4 Adol. & Ell. 585 ; White v.
Simpson, 5 East, 164; 1 Barn. & Cres. 342 ; 5 Taunt. 385.
Though the distinctions between these different powers are not
always well preserved, no doubt exists that a power coupled with
an interest may be inferred by obvious implication from the whole
will, as the fee not being at once vested elsewhere, and it being
necessary to have it in the executors to effect the general design
(Jackson v. Schauber, 2 Wend. 1, 54, 55, overruling S. C., 7
Cowen, 193), as well as from the usual course, which is by an express devise to the executors. Bradstreet v. Clarke, 12 Wend.

JANUARY TERM,

i.

269

Taylor et., al. v. Benham.

665, 667. Nor is it of any consequence how, sm0l the interest be.
Osgood v. Franklin, 2 Johns. Ch. 20; Bergen v.' Bennett, 1
Caines's Cas. in Err. 16 ; 2P. Wms. 102. ' It is enough if only to
distribute the proceeds as here, or to take the rents or use for the
benefit of'others. Same cases, ani 14 Johns. 555; Zebach v.
Smith, 3 Binney, 69. The interest, too, maybe equitable or legal.
Hearle v. Greenbank, 3 Atk. 714; 2 Johns. Ch. 20. And it is
an interest not required to yield a profit or'gain, but any title in the
estate itself, the thing to be sold. Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat.
174, 206. Being given by the will, when it is a power 'coupled
with an interest, and the conveyance under it being by and through
the will, it is of course for the use of the person designated in the
will, as if it was a devise over to him. And if the whole scope
and design of the will could not otherwise be accomplished, it might
not therefore be unjustifiable in a court of equity, in a case like this,
to let the title vest in the executors first, for the purpose of being
sold and turned into personal estate, for the alien legatees, in order
to avoid the very escheat now set up by the respondent. Craig v.
Leslie, 3 Wheat. 376, 377 ; I Ve . sen. 144, 485 ; 4 Kent's Com.
304, 310, note ; 14 Wend. 268 " Indeed, a court of equity, if it
should appear necessary, in order to avoid an escheat, and to enforce any apparent devise of the testator when trustee, directing
land to be turned into money and to go to certain legatees, or ce.stui
que trusts, will look to substance rather than form, will consider the
act as done at once, which is directed to be done, and the land as
money, and thus to be passed to those entitled to it. Peter v.
Beverly, 10.Peters, 533, 563 ; 3 Wheat. 563; 5 Paige, 318
Bogert v. Hertell, 4 Hill, 495 ; 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 790;
Newland on Contr. 48 to 64, and authorities cited.
But as the title here can be considered as passing to the complainants at once, leaving only a power coupled with a trust in the
executors, and still accomplish the object of the testator in preventing an escheat, we are inclined to adopt tha't construction of the
will as the safer one, amidst several conflicting authorities and
opinions in relation to this question. See some of them in 4 Kent's
Cor. 321, note, 5th ed. In such cases, till the sale is made, the
title usually vests in the heirs, if no other intent is manifest. Jackson
v. Burr, 9 Johns. 105, 106 ; Denn v. Gaskin,, Cowp. 661. But
where it is given by devise, as here, and the devisees were not the
cestui que trusts and heirs as tQ those lands when he died, it is
proper that the title should be considered as passing by devise, and
as being in the complainants by devise rather than descent. Jackson
v. Schauber, 7 Cowen, 197 ; Cowp. 661 ; 8 Wheat. 206, 207 ;
2 Wend. 34 ; Coster v. Lorillard, 14 Wend. 326. And the more
especially is it so, when, if the heirs took it as heirs, it might escheat.
The case of Jackson v. De Lancy, 13 Johns. 555, reviews most
of the cases connected with this question, and comes to the con23*

270

SUPREME C OURT.
Taylor et al. v. Benham.

clusion, substantially, that the title to the trust estate would pass in a
case like this to the residuary legatees, and be held by them for the
cestui que trusts. See the cases there cited, and among them Braybroke v.Inskip, 8 Ves. 417 ; 2 P. Wins. 198 ; Ex parte Sergison,
4 Ves. 14t ; I Merivale, 450 ; 5 Pick, 112. See also Dexter v.
Stewart, 7 Johns. Ch. 55. The better opinion is, that a trust
estate always passes in a general devise like this to the residuary
legatees, if no circumstances appear to indicate a contrary intent.
Braybroke v.Inskip, 8 Yes. 417, 436 ; 3 ibid. 348 ; 4 ibid. 147;
13 Johns. 537 ; Ballard et al. v.Carter, 5 Pick. 115 ; Marlow v.
Smith, 2 P. Wms. 198, 201. Hee, the circumstances fortify
the idea, rather than impair it, that the trust estate was intended,
in the end, to pass to the residuary legatees, as they were then
probably supposed to be the cestui que trusts, and in fact became so
before the devise took effect.
Another reason is, that the devisees would, if not cestui que trusts,
hold the estate fur them, and bd bbund to accoutit for it to them,
so as to make it safe. Marlow v. Smith, 2 P. Wins. 201.
T.his view of the case disposes first of the point made, that these
lands had, before the sale by Savage, escheated to the State of
Kentucky. It was hence argued that they could not be sold by
him, though no office had been found, the respondent considering

an escheat good without any 6ffice found. Montgomery v.Dorion,
7 N. Hamp. R. 480.; 6 Johns. Ch.365. But that is correct only
as to land cast by descefiton an alien. 7 Cranch, 629. For, as to
land taken by devise &rpurchase, an alien can always hold it till
office found. Knight v.Duplessis, 2 Ves. sen. 60 ; Co. Litt. 2, 6 ;
Powell on Devises, 316; Hubbard v.Goodwin, 3 Leigh, 512 ;
3 Wheat. 589 ; Govemeur's Heirs v.Robertson, II ibid. 332,
355 ; Fairfax v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 618.
It will be seen, on a very brief- examination, that the idea of,a
descent cast upon -alien of these lands, on the death of William F.
Taylor or Nathaniel Forbes, cannot be sustained under the opinions
we have just expressed. The aliens took them by devise, and not
by descent, in either of the two constructions of the will which can
be at all vindicated. As a general principle, too, ir all cases, a
court of chancery will not raise a use "by implication," in an
alien, so as to'endanger the estate, but will rather pass a title to the
executors in trust. 2 Wash. C. C. 447. So it has been held
that, if ii can be avoided, a court.will not vest the estate in an alien
by construction, in order to" have it escheat, when otherwise it
would not. .3Leigh, 513, and cases, cited.
We are prepared next to see whether Samuel Savage or his
representatives are liable to account for this property in Alabama,
provided he is chargeable anywhere. Becaus e, if not so liable in
Alabama, this part of the case must fail for want of jurisdiction in
the State in which the proceedings were instituted; and the further
questions as to his liability need not be examinpd.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

271

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

First, then, it happens, that though the heirs of Nathaniel Forbes
and Elizabeth are the same persons here as the residuary legatees
of William F. Taylor, yet they take an interest in the Kentucky
lands and their proceeds, in a different right and for a different purpose from-what they do in the property of William F. Taylor held
in his own right. It happens, too, that the interest they thus take is
derived from the deed by Mary Forbes to William F. Taylor, and
not through the will of the latter, except as directing the trust
property to be sold by his executors and paid over to them. It is
important to observe also, in this connection, that their taking of
this property and the sale of it are neither of them by virtue of
any letters testamentary issued in South Carolina ; that the property is not assets of William F. Taylor collected or to be accounted
for there ; and as the sale made by Samuel Savage of a part of
these lands was made in a different State, and of property situated
in a different State, and the proceeds of it never carried into South
Carolina, and the sale made after he had removed therefrom and
closed up his administration there, no reason exists for making him
account in that State for the sale. See I Rich. S. C. Rep. 116 ;
2 Wend. 471 ; 6 Pick. 481 ; 3 Mon. 514 ; Story's Conflict of
Laws, § 523. So, not having, taken out letters testamentary in
Kentucky, or even proved the will there, and residing elsewhere,
he could not be sued in that State. Fletcher's Administrator v.
Wier, 7 Dana, 348. It follows, then, that if liable at all for the
proceeds. of the sale of this trust property, being not that owned by
the testator in his own right, and the sale made by virtue of a power
in the will, and not of letters testamentary, he was liable in Alabama, the State where he had his domicile, the State whither he
carried the proceeds, -where the demand was made on him by the
complainants, where George M. Savage, his executor, took out
letters on his estate, and where alone George M. Savage could be
proceeded against for any claim against his testator. Bryan et al. v.
McGee, 2 Wash. C. C. 338 ; Trecothick v. Austin et al., 4
Mason, C. C. 29.
Being liable, then, in Alabama, if at all, for the acts done in respect
to these lands, it is next to be considered whether Samuel Savage
or his representatives are responsible for them to the complainants
at all, and if so, to what extent. When applied to in 1838, by
Primrose, the attorney of the complainants, to pay over the proceeds of his sale, Savage admitted that in 1818 lie executed releases
of about one fourth of these lands, in which he acknowledged a
consideration received by him of more than two thousand dollars ;
that he professed to make .the sale and receive the consideration as
surviving executor of William F. Taylor, and by virtue of a power
in his will, and that he never had-accounted for the proceeds since,
but contended that the sum actually realized by him was much
smaller than that named in the deeds, and objected to pay over any

:.272

SUPREME

COURT.

Taylor et al. z. Benham.

thing, though not assigning particularly his reasons for the refusal.
But the counsel for the respondent now interpose various specific
reasons against accounting for those proceeds beside that already
disposed of, which questioned the jurisdiction over the matter in
Alabama. One of their objections is the want of interest in the
coniplainants as legatees or cestui que trusts to recover. Another
is the irregularity, and indeed illegality, of his sale. Another is the
small amount received, not exceeding his expenses. And another,
still, is the statute of limitations.
But we have already shown that the complainants, as residuary
legatees, were entitled to the trust estate under the devise immediately, and, in any permissible view, as soon as it was converted into
money, and would be bound to manage and account for it to the true
cestui que trusts, if they were not so themselves. See before, 13
Johns. 555, and 8 Yes. 417, 436, and other cases. Being now,
however, cestui que trusts themselves, as well as devisees, their interest in the proceeds of the sale' is beyond controversy, there
having been, as already shown, no previous escheat of the lands.
In respect to the informality and illegality of the sale., they are
insisted on from its not appearing that all the executors except Savage were then dead, from his' not recording, the will in Kentucky,
and from the verbal denial at first of the validity of his sale by
Primrose. But it is to be remembered that this is a bill in equity,
that the executors had a power unddr the will to sell this property, which was a power coupled with a trust. That ig not a title
to be made out at law under a special statute, where much strictness
is required. 6 Mass. R. 40 ; 14 ibid. 286.
Nor is it only a naked power, not coupled with any trust or interest, where nudh strictness is also requisite. Williams et al.
v. Peyton's Lessee, 4 Wheat. 79 ; 10 Peters, 161, and other cases
cited. But it is merely a case to show such a sale as may make,
in a court of equity, an agent or trustee liable to those for whom he
acts. Minuse v. Cox, 5 Johns. Ch. 441, and Rodriguez v. Heffirman, ibid. 429.
Now it appears that Savage, in his deeds of this land, averred
himself to be surviving executor of Taylor's will. And the case
discloses the death of two of them, but says nothing of the other,
except, ir 1824 and 1825, he is referred to as dead "some time
ago." Considering him also as then dead,-which is the probable
inference from these facts, the right of Savage alone to sell under
the will would be good. A power to sell, not merely a naked one,
but coupled either with an interest or a trust, survives to the surviving executor. Peter v. Beverly, 10 Peters, 533 ; Co. Litt.
113 a, 181 b ; Lewin oni Trusts, 266 ; Sugden on Powers, 165,
166.; 2 Johns. Ch. R. 1 ; 7 Dana, .1 ; 5 Paige, 46 ; 2 Story's
Eq. Jurisp. § 1062 ; 10 Johns. 562. 8 Wheat. 203 ; Jackson v.
Eerris, 15 Johns. 346. Several of the States have positive statutes regulating this matter, and usually in this way. -

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

273

Taylor et a]. v. Benham.

Again, if all of several trustees decline the trusf except one, the
estate vests in him, and he is authorized to sell alone. 3 Paige,
420 ; 4 Kent's Com. 326, note ; King v. Donelly et al., 5 Paige,
46 ; In re Van Schoonhoven, 560 ; Cro. Eliz. 80 ; 7- Dana.;
Zebach v. Smith, 3 Binney, 69.
All the executors in this case, except Savage, declined to have
any concern with these lands, and do not appear ever to have done
any thing concerning them. It is obvious, likewise, on principle,
that where a sale is made under a will, which is merely the evidence
of authority or power to do it, the omission to record it will not
vitiate the sale, unless recording is in such case required by a local
statute. If so required, the statute must of course govern. 9
Wheat. 565 ; 10 Wheat. 202. Probably the necessity for this
must depend entirely on the local laws applicable to the transaction,
-the lex rei sitce (2 Hanm. 124 ; Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 570;
7 Cranch, 115), - and not on any general principles of international
law applicable to immovable property. If not necessary by those
laws, the omission to do it would not be taken advantage of by any
one in any case ; and if necessary, it would not seem very equitable to let the executor take advantage of it, who himself had been
guilty of the omission.
But however this should be decided, looking to the laws of Kentucky, and how far it may be cured by the subsequent proof and
recording of the will by Primrose for the complainants (II Peters,
211), and whether it is necessary to take out letters 'testamentary
in Kentucky to make such a sale (Lewis v. MacFarland, 9 Cranch,
151), we need not give any decisive opinion; since this branch of
the inquiry, as to the liability of Savage, can be disposed of under
a different aspect of the case.
If the land was sold informally by Savage, still it was 'sold in
fact ; it was conveyed in the character of surviving executor ; the
authority for doing it was claimed under the will ; the money for it
was received in this way ; the lands were occupied quietly under
his deed for near twenty years ; the consideration was never paid
back to the grantees, nor by law liable to be, as his deed was without warranty except against those claiming under W. F. Taylor,
and, as regards them, was in the end expressly confirmed by his
heirs and devisees under the compromise before detailed.
It is true, that their agent at first denied the legality of the sale
by Savage, but from its having actually taken place, money been
received under it, and the lands occupied in conformity to it so long,
he was in the end obliged to compromise and confirm it for much
less than the real value of the lands, and expressly reserved the right
to resort to Savage for the amount he had received.
On a consideration of these facts, can there be a doubt that it is
equitable to make Samuel Savage and his representatives pay over
to the cestui que trusts the money he thus received on their account ?

274

SUPREME

COURT.

Taylor ert al. v. Benham.

Can they be allowed to set up his own imperfect doings or neglect
as a justification for not paying over what he actually received for
them, and still holds ? ls he not estopped in equity to deny his liability to the complainants ? Have they not suffered in their interests to this extent by his conduct ? Have not he and his estate
profited to this extent by his sale of their property ? These questions can be answered only in one way, and the replies must give a
stamp and character to the whole transaction in a court, of conscience unfavorable to Savage. Consequently, in this bill in equity
between the parties as to a trust, we think it manifestly just that
the complainants, 'as against Savage's estate, are entitled to this
money; at least, to the amount adjudged in the court below. 1
Johns. Ch. R. 620; 1 Paige's Ch. R. 147, 151 ; 6 Paige, 355 ;
2 Johns. Ch. R. 1 ; 7 ibid. 122. Simple interest in such cases
seems proper, and was allowed. 4 Ves. 101 ; 5 ibid. 794 ; 16
ibid. 410. As an analogy for estopping Savage to deny what he has
said in his own deed, see Speake et al. v. The United States, 9
Cranch, 28, and cases in Com. Dig. Estoppel, a, 2. So, " it is a
settled principle of equity, that when a person undertakes to act as
an agent fop another, he cannot be permitted to deal in the matter
of that agency upon his own account and for his own benefit."
Sweet v. Jacocks, 6 Paige, 365.
So, " every person who receives money to be paid to another,
or to be applied to a particular purpose, to which he does not apply
it, is a trustee, and may be sued either at law, for money had and received, or in equity, as a trustee, for a breach of trust.", Kane v.
Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch. 110 ; Scott v. Surman, Willes, 404;
Shakeshaft's case, 3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 198.
He is liable, then, first, on the ground that the cestui que trusts
might confirm the sale and resort to the proceeds, as they finally did
in this case. Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 1262 ; 2 Johns. Ch. 442 ;
1. ibid. 581. It is true that such a confirmation must be full and
distinct ; whereas here a disavowal of it was at first made by their
agent, and when it was in the end agreed to-be ratified, the act-was
done on the receipt of additional money.
This, however, would not seem to vitiate it.
under. the reserva-.
tion made of a right to proceed against Savage for what he had received. The complainants, then, fully confirmed Savage's acts as
a sale, just as much as if no further money had been paid. . Though
they. asked for this additional sum, this was no injury to Savage,
and should constitute no objection to his paying over to them what
his vendee.s agreed he should, and what he virtually promised to.
do, when taking the -money for their property.
But if this view of the -matter was at all doubtful, another .ground
exists on which he might be made liable to a like extent, and on
which the complainants seek to charge him for a much larger
amount. The sale by Savage, if not valid and not confirmed, was

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

275

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

still injurious to the complainants. It gate such a color of title to
the tenants, as to prevent the complainants from obtaining any thing
more for their lands, but by way of compromise, and then a price
in all, including what was paid to Savage, far le~s than their true
value.

A trustee is liable for misconduct or breach of trust or negligence, as well as for money actually received. Jacobs's R. 120.
And if in these ways he injures the cestui que trust, he is liable,
whether he himnself gains by his misbehaviour or not. Lewin on
Trusts, 634 ; 3 Bro. Ch. Gas. 198. But when we come to inquire,
as he complainants insist, whether Savage was not liable for a much
larger sum on this. ground than what was allowed in the court below,
we are met by several difficulties. The amount, beyond the money
received and interest thereon; rests on estimates somewhat conjectural after so long a lapse of time ; and the neglect itself is not so
easily fixed with much certainty, from a like cause, and the death of
parties preventing explanations, and an extraordinary omission for
,almost a whole generation by the complainants themselves to bring
this business to a close. Savage, also, may have proceeded no
further in subsequent years to 9el1 the rest of the lands, and take
charge of the judgments which had been recovered, because discovering that Samuel and Mary -Taylor, the heirs, had appointed
Hutchinson and Bennock special agents instead of himself to manage
the Kentucky property. The degree of neglect to be made out for
any sum beyond that actually received is also different'and greater.
When the trustee is made liable for more, it must be, in the language
-of the books, " in cases of very supine negligence or wilful default." '14 Johns. 527 ; ibid. 634 ; Pybus v. Smith, 1 Yes. jr.
193; Palmer v. Jones, 1 Vern. 144; Osgood v. Franklin, 2
Johns: Oh. 27 ; 3 Bro. Ch. R. 340 ; 1 Madd. 290 ; Caffrey v.
Darhy, 6 Ves. 497. It would hardly be justifiable to find the existence of either of those after such a length of time, obscuring so
much by its mists and bbliterating so much by death.
Daimages, likewise, for mere neglect would stand in a different
attitude as to the statute of limitations from what we shall soon see it
does as to money held in trust ; and if the claim was on account of
a breach of trust committed and perfected when the neglect first
occurred,, it would be difficult to overcome the bar occasioned by
nineteen or twenty years since.
As to the remaining objection, under this head, that the sum received did not exceed Savage's expenses, this is not in the first
answer, and comes from an executor who could hot possess full
means of knowing the facts, and is not entitled to so much weight as
if it had, been put in and sworn to by Samuel Savage himself.
Carpenter v. The Providence. Insurqnce Company, 4 How. '185,
and cases cited there.
Besides this, there -is
no evidence to support the denial. It is

276

SUPREME

COURT.

Taylor et al. v. Benham.

not accompanied with any exhibit of expenses ; and no account for
them seems to have been offered ifievidence in the court below.
To overcome this denial stands the admission in the first answer of
receipts, to the extent of three or four hundred dollars, and no setoff claimed; next, the acknowledgment to Primrose of something
received ; next, the recorded confession in the deed that $2,118
was paid'to him; and, finally, the testimony of several witnesses to
actual payments, and the solvency of all the purchasers. But if any
doubt existed as'to this amount being the proper one, with interest,
it would be removed by the proceedings in the District Court,
where the account was stated in this manner after an examination by
agreement before the judge, and with liberty to except to the
account, and no exception taken.
The last objection to the recovery of the amunt actually received,
with interest thereon, is the statute of limitations. As before intimated, this statute, in respect to money taken in express trust, rests
on principles very different from what it might as to damages claimed
for a mere neglect bf duty, which happened, if at all, near twenty
years before any demand or suit. Let it be remembered, that,
though this money was.received by Savage, as trustee of the plaintiffs, in 1818, yet he never was requested to pay it over till 1837,
and that then he first became in default for not accounting for it.
Till then he lived remote from the complainants, they being residents in a foreign country, and was not obliged to settle for their,
money in South Carolina as assets belonging to William F. Taylor,
in his own right, as has before been shown.
Retaining it, under all the circumstances, till called on by the complainants or their agent, is therefore by no means decisive evidence
of any neglect or intention not to account for it, till the demand made
by-Primrose, in A. 1D. 1837. Consequently, the statute in relation
to this would not begin to run till'then, and hence could have created no bar in September, 1838, when this bill in equity was filed.
1 Jac. & Walk. 87 ; Attorney-General v. 1avor of Exeter, Jac.
448 ; 10 Peters, 177 ; MIichoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503 ; Zeller's
Lessee v. Eckert et al., ibid. 289 ; 3 Johns. Ch. 190, 216 ; Kane
v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch. 90 ; Gist et al. v. Cattell, 2
Desauss. 55. The case of Trecothick v. Austin, 4 lason, C. C.
29, was in this, and some other respects, such as to involve and
settle principles similar to what have been laid drnwn in this opinion.
The question of fraud and concealment has also been raised at the
bar, not only to *aid in charging the respondent, but in obviating the
operation of the statute of limitations, as it would if existing. 3 Atk.
130; Hardw. 184; 7 Johns. Ch. 122 ; 20 Johns. 576; 6 Wheat.
181. But as it is not hecessary to decide on these, we waive an
opinion as to imputations, so difficult to settle corriectly after the
death of most of the parties and the lapse of a quarter of a century.
There are some exceptions as to the form of the-claim and of the
bill, that deserve a moment's notice before closing.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

277

Taylor et al. v. Benham:

Though the plaintiffs make their claim in both cases against
Savage, and would be entitled in the end, in one, as legatees, if at all,
and in the other as cestui que trusts rather than legatees ; yet the
views already expressed would allow them to recover in both
cases as residuary legatees, because the trust passes properly to
them under the devise, though accompanied by an obligation to account for the property to the cestui que trusts, if they should happen
to be persons other than themselves.
The description of the complainants, and of their rights, then, in
the bill, is not exceptionable ; but the description of the liability of
Samuel Savage, which is also objected to, is not so free from imperfection. He acted under William F. Taylor's will in a fiduciary
capacity in two respects not exactly the same, but not discriminated
from each other in the bill. One was, to sell the lands his testator
held in Kentucky in trust, and the other, to sell the lands and the
other property, held in his own right, in South Carolina. Notwithstanding this, the variance does not seem to us to be such as,
in this stage of the cause, and in a court of equity, imperatively to
require an amendment.

The claim in both respects is for the acts of Samuel Savage
alone, and is to. be recovered from his executor alone, and belongs
to the complainants alone. The material facts are alleged, upon
which it rests in both respects ; and hence, as no objection was
taken to this in the answer or other pleadings, it may be regarded
as cured now, and more especially in a proceeding in chancery, and
where there is enough alleged to indicate with distinctness the subject-matter in dispute between the parties. See 32d section of Act
of Sept. 24, 1789 (1 Statutes at Large, 91) ; Garland v. Davis,
4 How. 131.
It will be seen, that by the course of reasoning we have adopted,
and by the points on which our opinions hay been formed, it has
become unnecessary to decide some other questions presented in
this cause in the able arguments of the counsel on both sides. But
having decided enough to dispose of the case, and being satisfied
that the judgment of the court below was right, however we differ as
to some of the reasons assigned in its support, we do not propose to
go further into the questions raised, and direct, that in this case the
judgment below be affirmed. The other appeal, relating. to this
matter and argued with it, must consequently be dismissed.
Order.
Vincent Al. Benham, administrator de bonis non, with the will annexed, of Samuel Savage, deceased, Appellant, v. William
Taylor, George Taylor, William Primrose, and Eliza, his wife,
George Porter, and Ekpet, his wife, William Rainey, Alexander
Rainey, and Elizabeth Rainey.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
VOL. V.

24

278

SUPREME

COURT.

Phillips v. Preston.

from the District Court of the United States far the Northern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said District Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per
centum per annum.
William Taylor, George Taylor, William Primrose, and Eliza, his
wife, George Porter, and Elspet, his wife, William Rainey, Alexander Rainey, and Elizabeth Rainey, appellqnts, v. Vincent
M. Benham, administrator de bonis non, with the will annexed,
of Samuel Savage, deceased.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, this court having affirmed the decree of the said District
Court in this cause, on the appeal of the respondents at the present
term, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that this appeal of the complainants be and the same is hereby dismissed with
costs.

GEotGE W. PHILLIPS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN S. PRESTON, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Under the practice of Louisiana, peremptory exceptions must be considered as specially pleaded when they are set forth in writing, in a specific or Jetailed form.
and judgment prayed on them.
Although the court should refuse to receive exceptions thus tendered, yet if the
party has the benefit of them on a motion in arrest of judgment and in a bill of
exceptions, the refusal of the court is not a sufficient cause for reversal.
The statute of Louisiana, requiring their courts to have the testimony taken down in
all cases where an appeal lies to the Supreme Court, and the. adoption of this rule
by the court of the United States, includes only cases where an appeal (technically speaking) lies, and not cases which are carried to an appellate court by
writ of error.
Where the laws permit a waiver of a trial by jury, it is too late to raise an objection that the waiver was not made a matter of record, after the case has proceeded to a hearing.
In a suit by the first indorser of promissory notes against a second indorser, upon an
alleged contract that the second indorser would bear half the loss which might
accrue from their non-payment by the drawer, it is not a sufficient objection to
the jurisdiction of the court, that the second indorsee and defendant were citizens of the same State. Such an objection would be well founded if the suit
had been upon the notes.
But not where the suit is brought upon a collateral contract.
A contract between two indorsers, that they will divide the loss between them, is
a good contract, and founded o- a sufficient consideration.
Being a collaterai contract, by parol, parel evidence can be given to prove it. The
payee is a competent witness, and so is the notary, bringing with him the act of
sale.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

