JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

29

The United States v. Boyd et al.

to the petitioner to have .a survey made of the land in the distri.
referred to by the concessioiby the surveyor-general -of the province, in due form, on the ground, and to cause the plat and certificate of such survey to be recorded, by the surveyor-general, by
which additional public act -the land granted was severed from the
king's domain, but remained part of it until the-survey was made and
recorded. Until this was done, thJ warrant was a floating wamrant
of survey, not recognized by the government of Spain before the
cession, nor by this government since, ag conferring an individual
title to any specific parcel of land on the petitioner; so this court in
effect held in the case of Wiggins (14 Peters, 351). From the
time that such claims first came before this court, they have not.
been deemed as coming within the cognizance of -the courts of
Florida, because the 8th article of the treaty'of 1819 did not embrace them ; it only provided, "That grants of land mad& by his
Catholic Majesty, or by his lawful authorities, should be ratified and
confirmed to the persons in possession of them, to the same extent
that the same grants would be valid if the territories had remained
under the dominion of his Catholic Majesty." Adtual manual possession has never been required to give title, but such identity must be
established as to enable the courts t9 ascertain with reasoncole cer-"
tainty where the land lies; as was held in Hanson's case (15
Peters) and others. And this may be shown either from the face *of
the grant, or by a legal survey made by the surveyor-general in
conformity to the grant, during the time he had power to make such
,surveys.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the' Superior Court for the Distridt of East Florida, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration' whereof, it is the opinion of
this court, that the claimants can take nothing under ilie concession
in this case ; whereupon, it is now here ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the .aid Superior Court in this case be
and the -same is hereby reversed and annulled ; and that -this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Superior Court,'with
directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. GoRnoN D. BoYD AND'
OTHERs, DrFENDANTS.
The act of Congress, passed -on the 24th of April, 1820 (3 Statutes at Large, 56),
which substituted cash payments in lieu of credit sales of the public lands, made
no exception in favor of, the receiver. If he can purchase at all, it must be by
placing his own money with the other moneys which he holds in trust for the
government.

30

SUPREME COURT.
The United Statea v. Boyd et al..

The returns of the receiver to the Treasury Department are not conclusive evidence in an action by the government against the sureties upon the receiver's
bond. If the sums of money stated in such returns were not actually in the
hands of the receiver, the sureties are allowed to show how the fact was.
The sureties cannot be concluded by a fibricated account of their principal with
his creditors; they may always inquire into the reality and truth of the transactions existin& betwebn them.
An instruction given by the court below, viz., that if the jury believed that a
fraudulent design existed on the part of the receiver and an agent of the government, to conceal defalcations existing prior to the date of the bond, then the bond
was fraudulent and void, - was erroneous.
The condition of the bond was prospective, and. fraud in respect to past transaci
tions, not within the condition, could not render the inptrument. void prospectively.
Nor should the acts and declarations of the agent of the governmient have been
allowed to be given in evidence, without first establishing his agency. Secon'dary proof of the contents of a letter of appointment should. not have been re.
ceived, without first accounting for the non-production of the original.
Where there was a demurrer to a rejoinder, which demurrer was sustained by the
court below, and the party, on leave, filed an amended rejoinder, this court cannot be asked to decide upon the demurrer. The point was waived by the filing
of the amended rejoinder.
If a judgment for costs be given. against the United States by the court below, it
must be reversed, as the United States are not liable for costs.

Tuis case was brought up,- by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was formerly before the court, and reported in 15 Peters, 187.
The following statement of the case was made out by Mr.
Justice
Nelson, and prefixed to the opinion of the court.
I The plaintiffs
brought an action of debt against the defendants in
the court below, upon a receiver's bond, in the district of Mississippi, for defalcation in office, and in which the latter*obtained the
verdict.
The declaration was in the usual form.for the penalty, to which
several of the defendants, after craving oyer, pleaded performance.
The 'bond bore date the 15th June, 1837, in the -penalty of
$200,000; and after reciting that Boyd had been appointed receiver
for the term of four years from the 27th December, 1836, the
condition was, that he should faithfully execute and discharge the
duties of the office.
The plaintiffs in their replication assigned for breach, that after
the 27th December, 1836, and while he was receiver, and as such,
he said Boyd received divers large sums of he public moneys,
amounting to the sum of $59,622.60, and which he had failed and
neglected to pay over tQ -the government.
To this replication the defendants .dermurred, and therefore the
plaintiffs put in an amended replication ; and in which a second
breach was assigned, alleging that the said Boyd, after 27th December, 1836, and on divers days and times between that day and the
30th day of Decdember, 1837, while he was receiver of the public
moneys, and as such, received divers large sums of the public
moneys, amounting in the whole 'to Qie sum of $ 59,622.60 ; and

JANUAiR-Y

TERM, 1847.

31

The United States v. Boyd et al,

further, that this sum remainediin the hands of the said Boyd, as
such receiver, on the 30th September, 1837, and that he then andthere wholly fialed and neglected to pay over the same.
To this amended replicatioi the defendants demurred, and assigned for causes,
1. That the breaches set forth did not state the time when the'
said Boyd, as such'receiver, received the moneys mentioned therein ; nor whether the said sum was receih ed before or -after the day
of the date of the bond.
2. That the said breaches did not state that the said Boyd failed
or neglected to pay *overthe money received by hini as such receiver at any time after the date of the bond.
The plaintiffs joined a demurrer; and 'the court below gave
judgment for the defendants. The cause came up to this court ona-writ of error, upon which the judgment was reversed, and 'the
caje remanded for further proceedings.
When the cause' came, back to the court below, 'Boyd, -aer
caving oyer, pleaded separately performance, and to the replication assigning breaches he rejoined, setting forth a former recovery
in assumjsit in bar of the action against him, -to which the'plaintiffs answered, nul tiel record.. This issue being found for the defendant, he was discharged without-day.
The other defendants then put in a rejoinder to the amended
replication of the plaintiffs, and alleged that the said Boyd did not;
as receiver, receive any public moneys at the time of the execution
of said bond, or at any time thereafter, and before the commencement of the suit; and that no public moneys of the United States
for the payment of which the defendants were chargeable by virtue
of their bond remained in the hands of the said Boyd, as such
receiver, at the time of the execution of the bond, or at any time
thereafter and before the commencement of the suit, which the
said Boyd had failed or neglected to pay over to the government.
To this rejoinder the plaintiffs demurred, and the defendants joined
in the demurrer.. The court below gave judgment for the plaintiff,
but allowed the defendants to amend; which was done accordingly;
and in the amended rejoinddr they averi that no public moneys' of
the United States came to the hands of the said Boyd, as such
receiver, after the execution of the said bond, nor were there any
such public moneys for the B~ay'-eflt of which the defendants were
chargeable by virtue of the s-aid bond, received by him prior to the
execution of'the same, remaining in the hands of said receiver in his
official capacity at the time of the execution of said b6nd, or at any
time thereafter, which had not been paid or accounted for accordihg
to law, before the commencement of the suit, upon which issue was
taken.
On the trial the plaintiffs gave-in evidence two treasury transcripts,
one dated Feb.. 27, 1838, adjusting a-balance against Boyd, as
-

32

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boyd et al.

receiver, of $ 59,622.60, due to the government on the 30th Sept.,
1837, the other dated Sept. 17, 1838, adjusting a like balance
against him of that date.
The plaintiffs also gave in evidence the returns of, Boyd, as such
receiver, to the treasury department, containing the account current
as kept by him with the government, covering a period from ]c.
31, 1836, to Sept. 25, 1837.; and which agreed substantially with
the balance due, as shown by the treasury transcripts. They were
made monthly to the department.
Upon this the plaintiffs rested.
The defendants then proved, that no lands had been entered or
sold at the office of the registers, at Columbus, or receiver's certificates issued by the receiver (Boyd), after the 29th of 'May, 1837.
The last tract of land sold was entered on that day. This was
proved by-the register and confirmed by the records on file in the
land-office.'
It was further proved, that while the. sales of the public lands.
were going on at Columbus, and in the month of January or Febuary,
1837, Boyd permitted one Pearle to enter lands to the amount of
some $12,000 or $15,000, without paying any money for the same,
taking only his cheeks upon the Planters' Bank in the vicinity, which
were uniformly dishonored as soon as~presented for payment.
It further appeared, that Boyd himself, while such receiver, and
before the execution of the bond in question, made entries in his
own name, and in the name of others for'his benefit, of a large
quantity of the'public lands at the register's office, and gave the
usual certificates for that purpose, without paying for the same,
.except by simply charging himself in his accounts with the receipt
of so much money.
In the course of the trial evidence was given that a person by the
name, of "Garesche appeared at Columbus, in May, 1837, claiming
to be an agent from the land-office department authorized to examine
tha books and accounts of certain land-offices,..of wich.that at
Columbus was one; he produced a letter from the department of his
appointment, which was recognized as genuine, and thereupon, the
offices of the register and receiver were examined. The defalcation
of Boyd was discovered by the agent, who communicated it to the
register, but enjoined secrecy.
The counsel for the plaintiffs objected to the competency of the
.evidence offered to prove the agency of Garesche, but the objection
was overruled, and the decision of the court excepted to.
The defendants then offered Boyd, the receiver, s a witness, and
with a view to remove all objections, on the ground of interest,
releases were executed from them to. him, discharging him from all
liability in case a judgment should be rendered against them.
They lso produced a certificate of -the clerk, stating that an
amount of money had been deposited in court by Cocke, one of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

33

The United S tates v. Boyd et al.

defendants, to cover all costs, and also a release by the said Cocke
to the other defendants, discharging them from contribution.
The witness was still, objected* to, but admitted ; to which decision the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted.
In the course of the examination of this witness, an objection was
taken to his testimony going to prove, -that he had no moneys in his
hands belonging to the United States at the date of the bond, on
the ground,-if would be in contradiction of the statements contained
in his official returns to the treasury department. The objection
was overruled and the testimony admitted ; to which decision the
counsel excepted.
The witness testified that he had no money-in his bands, as
receiver, or otherwise, in court for the United States, at the date
of the bond; and that he had so informed Garesche, the agent, before
the execution of the same; and that after the execution he had paid
over all moneys which he had received.
The testimony here closed, and the counsel for the plaintiffs
prayed the court to instruct the jury,
1 1. That the official returns of the receiver to the treasury department were conclusive against the sureties.
2:"That there was no sufficient legal evidence before the jury of
the agency of Garesche.
3. That fraud could not be imputed to the United States.
And the counsel for the defendants prayed the court to instruct
the jury, 1. That if the jury found that the balance claimed-by the United
States from Boyd arose from his returns, as receiver, of entries-of
public lands, made by him and others, prior to the execution of the
ond, and that no money had been paid for the same on such entries
before or after the execution of said bond, and that the entries had
been made unlawfully without payment, then the sureties were not
liable.
2. That the facts itated in the transcripts of-the returns made by
Boyd, of moneys on hand, were not conclusive against the defendants, but might be explained, contradicted, or disproved by the
evidence.
3. That if the 'jury believed that the-balance claimed by the
United States arose out of moneys received by Boyd before the
execution of the bond, and that the same was not'held by him, as'
receiver, in trust for the government, at or after the execution of the
bond, but had been used, wasted, or converted by him to his own
use, prior to said execution, then the sureties were not liable.
The court charged the jury, that the evidence, on the part of the
plaintiffs, made out a primfacie case; but that if they believed, from
the whole evidence, that the defalcation of Boyd arose from the entry
of lands-in his own name and in the name of others without payment

34

SUPREM.E COURT.
The United States v. Boyd et al.

of money for the same, and previous to the 15th day of June, 1837,
the date of the bond, the sureties were not responsible.
The court further charged the jury, that if they believed, f*om the
evidence, that a fraudulent design existed, on the part of Boyd and
Garesche, to conceal the fact of Boyd's defalcation from the sureties
until they should execute the bond ; and that such design was communicated to the Secretary of the Treasury, and his answer received
before the actual execution of the bond, that then the bond would
be fraudulent and void, and the sureties not liable.
To the instructions as given, and also t4 the refusal of the court
to give the constructions%as prayed for, the counsel for plaintiffs excepted. The jury found a verdict for the defendants.
The cause was argued at the preceding term by JIIr. Mason (then
Attorney-General)," for the United States, plaintiffs in error, and by
Nr. Cocke and JMr. Henderson, for the defendants in error.
.Mr. Mason made'the following points :
I. The court erred in admitting testimony objected to, and in rejecting testimony offered by the United States to rebut defendants'
evidence.
1. There was no legal proof of Garesche's agency, or of the
extent of his powers to bind the United States. If iay such aeney
existed, the instructions were of record in the treasury department,
could be made evidence in the mode prescribed by law, and second-"
ary evidence was inadmissible.. To this general rule of evidence
there are some exceptions, but this is not one, or within the principle
of them. Jacob v. United States, 1 Brock. Rep. 528, a case of
exception. Agency is a contract, and what constitutes it is matter
of law. 1 Livermore on Agency, 25. In this case, the learned
judge refused to decide whether there was proof of agency, and yet
admitted secondary evidence, which was not admissible to establish
it; certainly not without notice to the plaintiffs to produce papers in
their possession.
As the acts of an agent bind his principal oiily when within the
scope of his, powers, it is indispensable to prove the character and
extent of his powefs before it can be determined whether a particulr
act is to have that effect. United States v. Brig Burdett, 9 Peters,
682.
2. Boyd was an incompetent witness. He was a sworn .officer,
and made his returns under the sanction of an oath; he was admitted
as a witness to prove that these returns were not true. Public policy
strongly forbids this, and the maxim of law, femo allegans suam turpitudinem est audiendus, applies.
The case of United States v. Leffer, I Peters, 86, does not conflict with this position. In that case, the testimony of the principal
obligor was not inconsistent with his official conduct.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

.35,

The United States v. Boyd et al.

3. But if Garesche's acts were to be permitted to influence the
jur', on the proof of ageficy submitted in establishing a fraudulent
combation, then the bond previously executed by Boyd, and the
defendants as his suretieswas admissible to rebut the inference that
they were fraudulently induced to execute the bond on which this
suit was instituted. Fraud is an extrinsic circumstapee, which, if it
exists, will vitiate the act infected; but all extrinsic circumstances
are admissible to rebut such an allegation. "2 Starlde on Evidence,
Title Fraud, 586; Estwick v. Caillaud, 5 Term Rep. 426.
•
II. After the decisions of this court in the cases of Linn and the
United States, 15 Peters, 290, Farrar & Brown v. United States;
5 Peters, 373, and the United States v. Boyd, 15 Peters, 187, I
do not feel at liberty to argue that the official accounts of the receiver are conclusive against his securities, or that they are responsible for past defaleations, when the language of the condition
is not retrospective.
On the merits, it is respectfully.submitted, that, on another assignment of breach of the cbndition, the sureties may be held liable for
so much of Boyd's default as arose from his certificates for lands
taken up by himself, for which he did not pay over the money when
required to do so. There is no legal disability in the receiver to
enter public lands.
In United States v. Boyd, 15 Peters, 187, the corz held, that
"it matters not'at what time the moneys had been received, if after
the appointment thpy were held by the officer in trust for the United
States, and so continued to be held at and after the date"of the
bond," the securities are bound. As a necessary counterpart of this
proposition,'if he was so indebted for lands entered by himself,
while in office, and the United States chose to recogise the entry
so made, and required payment at and after the date of his bond, his
dereliction "was not complete" until his refusal to pay,- or his
failure to receive from himself; and for such dereliction his securities were liable. Issuing a certificate without payment to himself on his own entry is official misconduct, but that' is not such a
misconduct as to vacate the sale, unless the United States insists*
that it is no sale.
In this view, if correct, it is important that there should be another trial to enable the government to make a-new assignment of'
breach, so as to present this inquiry.
-The verdict for the defendants is general. The court below refused to instruct the jury that fraud could not be imputed to the
United States, but gave the third instruction, hich it is submitted
was wholly erroneous. The jury were charge'd, if they believed,
from the evidence, "that a fraudulent design existed between Boyd
and Garesche to conceal the fact of Boyd's defalcation from the
sureties, until they should execute the bond, and that such design
was communicated to.'the Secretary of the Treasury, and his an-

36

SUPREPME COURT.
The United States v. Boyd et al.

swer received before the actual execution of the b ond, that in such
case the bond would be fraudulent and'void, and the sureties not
liable."
Fraud to have this effect is either matter, of law or matter of
fact. The instruction proceeds on the assumption that the fraud in
this case was fraud in fact, which was left to the jury. Assuming
even that the United States may be responsible- or the fraudulent
conduct of its agents and officers, this instruction was efroneous.
1 1. Because the bond, being prospective in its operation, was not
in law or in fact vitiated, if the prior defalcation was concealed from
the sureties; or unknown to them.
2. Because there was no proof before the jury of Garesche's
agency, or of the scope of his powers, and the court ought not to
have left to the jury to frame their verdict on a state of facts which
the evidence did not establish. The court having refused to charge
the jury on the question, was in error to assume, in this instruction,
that the agency existed to the extent of 'affecting the United States
by his fraudulent acts. Hunter v. United States, 5 Peteris, 173.
3. There is no intimation of what the Secretary's answer was, to
have the effect of vitiating the security. All that was required was
that Boyd and Garesche conspired to conceal the default; that such
design was commimnicated to the Secretary, and his answer received, no matter what it contained ; ihat fact, vith the others,
wholly insufficient of themselves, in the opinion of the court avoided
the bond. It is" not conceived possible that such a state of facts
is to deprive the government of its resort against'the sureties for the
official misconduct of their principal.
By law the receiver is to execute bond, with approved security.
The duty of approving cannot be delegated to an agent ; and as no
agency can exist but to do a lawful act, the ministerial duty of seeing the bond executed, and transmitting it to the tredsury department, where it was by law to be approved, could not, in the nature
of things, include power to vacate the bond by misconduct of the
agent. And hence the importance in this case of showing, by
proof, the scope of the supposed agent's powers.
JMr. Cocke, for defendants.
(After arguing the point of the demurrer to the rejoinder, caine to
the treasury transcripts.)
We are here called upon to examine Whether these certified
balances are evidence sufficient to sustain the action. If we shall
find that they are not, then the court cannot legitimately disturb the
verdict of the jury for the defendants. To the point of the admissibility of the transcripts of the accounts in gross we cite, that "the
act 6f Congress, in, making a transcript from the books and proceedings of the treasury evidence, does not mean the statement of
an account in gross, but a statement of the items both of debits and

JANUARY TERM, 184,7.

37

The United States r. Boyd et'al.

credits as they were acted upon by the accounting offiders of the
department.
United States v. Jones, 8 Peters, 375.
The defendant is unquestionably entitled to a detailed statement
of the items which compose his account., Ibid. A certified statement of the balance due and a report thereof to the comptroller, is
not such a transcript from the books and proceedings of the treasury
as may be given in evidence under the second section of the act of
the '3d March, 1797. 'United States v. Patterson, Gilpin's Dist.
C. R. 47.
In looking to the duties and 'liabilities of receivers of public
moneys, for the sale of public lands in any-land district of Mississippi, there is, perhaps, no form 'in which public moneys can
come into their hands officially, for the payment of which sureties are chargeable, except' it be for moneys received for the
sale of public land sold in conformity with the requirements of
law. A detailed statement of the'items is then indispensibly necessary both to give information of the plaintiffs' demand, and to enable
the defendants to defend themselves against any illegal or unjust
charge ; for extniple, if the item were" for the sale of a certain
section of land in a certain township and range, it would be competent for the defendants to show that the land was .not in the land
district, had never been offered for sale by the proclamation of
the President, was some -one of the variety of Indian or other
reservations, and that the title had in no manner been affected by
the supposed sale. -But to allow a certified statement of a mere
money balance in gross, or certified statements of money quarterbalances, to inculpate the defendants would, of necessity, work judicial oppression and injustice ; we therefore repeat that the plaintiffs have not made out such a case as would enable them to recover,
and that the verdict of the jury for the defendants cannot in this
court be disturbed.
The case having arisen in Mississippi and tried there, if her laws
are to have effect on the subject (but it is believed they Ihave not),
the same principle there prevails ; thus, in an action of indebitatus assumpsit, the plaintiff shall file with his- declaration an account stating
distinctly the several items of his claim against the defendant, and in
failure thereof, he shall not be entitled to prove before the jury any
item which is not so plaihly and particularly described in the declaration as to give the defendant full notice of the character thereof.
Howard and Hutchinson's Digest of the Laws of Mississippi, 590,
see. 6.
From any view we have been enabled to take ot the subject,
whatever may be the. nature.or manner of the subsequent proceedings, the verdict in this case cannot be disturbed;
The next subject that may engage the attention of the court is an
v6L. v.
4-

38

'SUPREME COURT.
The United. States v. Boyd et al.

authenticated abstract of lands purchased by Gordon D. Boyd and
others, previous to his being appointed receiver.
Also a certified abstract of lands purchased by Boyd in his own
name previous to his being appointed receiver.
Also a certified abstract of lands assigned to Boyd previous to
his being appointed receiver.
Also a certified abstract of lands purchased by Boyd after .he was
appointed receiver.
Also a certified abstract of lands purchased by Boyd in company
with others after he was appointed receiver.
And also a certified abstract of lands asigned to Boyd after he
was appointed receiver.
These several lists we have examined with care, and looked
for their application to the matters in litigation in this suit with
anxiety ; and if they have the remotest connection with any matter
here, on inquiry we confess we have not been able to discover it.
If, however, the court shall perceive their donnection and import nce, the judges*will not fail to make the proper application and
determine the weight to be given them i'ffhe evidence; we ackliowledge our inability to do so.
The remaining balance of the plaintitts' testimony is certain certified, money'accc. mts of the United States with Gordon D. Boyd.,
receiver of public moneys.
These purport to be the quarterly
statements of Boyd, of moneys remaining on hand from quarter to
quarter, and stand obnoxious to the objections we have before considered. First, that they are not accompanied with transcripts from
the books and proceedings of the treasury, showing the items which
constitute the accounts in gross. Second, that the lands sold for
which the balance is supposed to be created are not stated; and
Third, that the sureties should not thereby be denied all opportunity
of defending themselves, even by showing that the lands were not
subject to sale, that the tide thereto yet remained with the government, or to such person as they might otherwise belong. But wewill ask the favor again to call the attention of the court to this subject, when we shall consider the testimony of the said Gordon D.
Boyd and other witnesses for the defendants. The plaintiffs here
rested their cause. The defendants, in their defence, offered the
testimony of the witnesses, William Dowsing, John Davies, John
D. Montgomery, William B. Winston, Robert E. Harris, and
the said Gordon D. Boyd.
*To which the plaintiffs objected as incompetent, on the ground
that the official returns or reports of Boyd, as receiver, could not be
contradicted or explained by parol evidence ; and the plaintiffs by
their attoriey thereupon moved the court to charge the jury that the
official returns of Gordon D. Boyd, made to the treasury department, under the sanction of his oath of office, were conclusive against
his sureties. But the bourt permitted the testimony of the said wit-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

39

The United States v. Boyd et al.

nesses to be given to the jury. Before we examine that testimony,
we are called upon to determine whether the matters referred to in
these treasury transcripts 'and abstracts are, in law, conclusive upon
the defendants, and fix their liability beyond all controversy, like
unto a judicial sentence or other legal estoppel, or whether, llowing them to be free from the objections we have interposed to their
admissibility, they are to be taken as mere primd facie evidence,
and like all primd facie or presumptive evidence may be rebutted
by other contradictory proofs, or attacked for fraud and imposition.
The act of Congress Of thb 3d. of March, 1797, uses this language, - "shall be admitted as evidence." Its admissibility only is
provided for ; but nothing is said as to its effect -or the amount of
credence to be given to it. It is ex parte and in derogation of the
fixed rules of evidence, and cannot be extended by implication to
prohibit sureties from ascertaining the truth, or freeing themselves
from the supposed liability of false reports made to the department.
In the case of the United States v. Eckford's Executors, . 1
Howard's Supreme Court Reports, 262, 263, the court say,"Ttie government must show the amount of the defalcation of the
collector during the term for which the defendants were sureties, to
charge them, and this is not done on the face of the general transcript. It is necessary, therefore, to have a restatement of the account for this purpose.
The restatement does not falsify the
general account, but arranges the items of debts and credits, so as.
to exhibit the tiansactions of the collector.during the four years in
question.. Whether this be done by depositions or in the form of
the transcript may not be maerial.
We think that the transcript
or restatement of the account as explained by the depositions was
competent evidence to the jury. This statement, as appears from
deposition of Tarbutt, is deficieni 'in not giving all the credits .to
which the collector was entitled, but as it relates -to the matter in
controversy it is evidence. The jury will determine what effect it
shall have ; the amount charged to the collector at the commencement of the term is only prima facie evidence against the sure.ties.
" If they can show, by circumstance dr otherwis , that the balance charged in whole or in part had been misapplied by the collector prior to the new appointment they are not liable for the sum
so misapplied."
It was, in the case here referred to, contended that the duty of the
treasury officers in settling these kind of accounts were in their
nature judicial and conclusive, but the court did not sustain. such
views ; on the contrary, regarded them as primd .facie only, and
subject to be rebutted by circumstances or otherwise. But we
contend that if they had been regarded in the nature of juccial sen-*
tences, being merely certified balances ii gross, they were not admissible in evidence; any more than would be the minute of a final
judgment of a court unsupported by any writ, pleadings, or proofs.

40

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boyd et al.

The instruction, therefore, of the court to the jury, that the evidence
on the part of the plaintiffs m ade out a pima facie case, was certainly as strong for them as they had any right lo demand. Taking these
treasury transcripts then as containing a'primndfacie showing of the
defendants' liability, we maintain that a full and complete defence is
found for them on the following grounds :1st. That all moneys that were in fact received by Boyd, a- receiver, had been well and truly pait by him into the treasury before the commencement of this suit.
2d. That the balance claimed by the United States arose from
returns made by him of false and illegal entries of public lands in his
own name and in the names of others, prior to the execution of the
bond, and that on such entries no moneys were in fact paid to said
receiver or in his hands before or after the execution of, the bond.;
that such entries were unlawful, were nullities, and passed no title
out of the -government,
3d. That if any balance of moneys received by Boyd was received
by him before the execution of the bond, that none silch was held by
him in trust for the government at or after the execution of the bond,
but had'been used, wasted, or converted to his own use prior to the
execution of the said bend, and,
4th. That the fact of Boyd's supposed defaication existed prior
to the date of the bond, and was known to V. M. Ga:resche, the
agent of the government; who was bound in morals ant in law to
have made the same known to the sureties; but who concealed such
knowledge and enjoined official secrecy in fraud of the sureties.
That the said bond was obtained froW the sureties by fraud and no
liability exists against them on the bond.
As to the first point, it will be borne in mind that the bond is
prospective both in its terms and legal effect, and that it is dated on
the 15th of June, 1837. It will be seen by reference to 'the testimony of William Dowsing, the register of the same land-office,
that the first entry that purports to have been made before Boyd, as
receiver, was on the second day of December, 1836, and that the
entries closed on the 29th 'of May, 1837 ; both of these periods
were before the date of the bond. According then to the opinion of
the court made in this case on the former adjudication, the sureties
are not liable, unless such public moneys remained on hand at and
after the date of' the bond.
, The testimony of all the witrnesses, William Dowsing, John Davies, John D. Montgomery, William B. Winston, and Robert E.
Harris, conduce to show that Boyd made his deposits of public
moneys, as they accrued, in the office of the Planters' Bank, at Columbus, where he ought to have made them. By reference to exhibit
A., part of the deposition of William B. Winston, it will be seen
that the deposits were so made by him, and on comparing them with
the statement of moneys paid by Boyd'to the government, it is shown'

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

41

The United States v. Boyd et al.

that he well and truly paid over to the plaintiffs all the public moneys
actually received by him, and that at or after the date of the bond no
such moneys remained in his hands.
The testimony of these witnesses certainly conduced to show this,
and the jury having found the issue'for.the defendants, the court would
not be authorized to disturb the verdict. This is so without regard
to the testimony of Boyd, but if the testimony of Boyd be competent
it is a full defence to the defendants, and is'conclusive of th6 issue in
behalf of the defendants. He testifies that at the date of said bond
he had no moneys in his hands, as receiver, anddid not othervise hold
any moneys at that time for the United States or in trust for them :
that before the execution of'said bond he had fully informed V. MI.
Garesche, the agent of the land-office department, that he had no
such moneys in his possession ;, and being further interrogated, he
stated that his default, as receiver, was complete and consummated
before the execution of said bond, and that after the execution of
said bond he did not receive any such moneys not paid over.
If his testimony be competent, its weight and credibility were alone
for the province of the jury ; they having believed him, and having
found their verdict for the defendants, there is no n, by which this
court on error would be authorized to disturb the .verdict.
We entertain no doubt of the competency of his testimony. He
had been previously prosecuted at the suit of the United States in a
distinct and -separate proceeding for the identical same cause of
action, and the United States had obtained a judgment against him
on the 15th of June, 1838, for the sum of $ 53,722.50. These
proceedings he relied upon as a bar to the plaintiffs' right to have
another judgment against hiln for the same. cause on the bond ; nul
tiel record was relied upon by the plaintiffs, but it wes found that
there was such record ; and as it was not thought regular for the
plaintiffs. to have tw6 operative judgments against the same person
for the same cause at the same time, Boyd was discharged from the
second action and had no further connection with it. But he was
principal in the bond and the other defendants his sureties only.
Before he was allowed to testify, the defendants, on behalf of
whom he did testify, were required to release him, his heirs, executors, and administrators, from all claim's against him for any money
or other thing which he might be liable to them or either of them by
reason of any recovery or judgment that might be had against" them
or either of them, and also all costs incurred or to be incurred by
reason of any suit upon the bond, after the discharge mentioned ;
by these releases the said Boyd was rendered a competent witness
for the sureties, who thus released him, and was correctly permitted
to testify. United States v. Leffler, 11 Wheaton, 86. Butwhence,
it may be asked, arose his supposed defalcation.? We answer, by
his having issued certificates for land before the date of the bond in
his own name and in the name of others without having received
4*

42

SUPREME ,COURT.
The United States u

the purchase money therefor.

Boyd et al.

See the testimony of William

Dovsing, John Davies' John D. Mntgomery, and Robert E.
Harris, in the printed record. If this be so, allow us here, secondly,
to say that whatever may be the nature of the liability of Boyd or
his sureties for malfeasance in office, for and on account of these
certificates, this proceeding for money received and on hand at and
after the date of the bond cannot he supported. In this respect
thd jury having found for the defendants, this court would not be
authorizedto disturb the verdict.
We do not think that-the United States can be deprived of any
portion of the public domain by such false certificates.
The act
of Congress of the 24th of April, 1820, changing the mode of the
disposition of the publrc.lands from the credit to the cash system,
provides that " credit shall not be allowed for the purchase money
on t e sale of any public lands which shall be sold after the 1st day
of July, 1820. Lands remining unsold at the close of a public
sale may be sold at private sale by entry at the land-office at one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, to be paid at the time of
making such entry. No lands which have reverted or which shall
revert to the United States for failure in any manner to make payment, shall be subject to entry at private sale until they shall have
boan. first offered to the highest bidder at public sale ; no such lands
sltall be sold at public sale for a less price than one dollar and
twenty-five cents per acre, nor on any other terms than that of cash
payment."
Statutes of the United States at Large, 66, 67. It
would seem tht the actual payment of the money forms a condition
precedent both in fact and in law to the right of the receiver, registerj or other officer of the executive government to part with any
portion of the public lands.
If, indeed, it-be competent for Gordon B. Boyd thus to appropriate $59,622.60 worth of the public domain to himself without
paying for it, the task would not be difficult, on the same principle,
for him thus to appropriate the balance of the land- in his land district ; and if he could be permitted to do so, all other receivers of
.public moneys could do the same in their several land districts, and
thtA the title of the whole public domain could pass out of the government without the payment of a dollar. The principle or practice
that shall thus deprive the United States of her public lands cannot
be ound or be supported by this court.
If, indeed, it be true that the supposed defalcation of Boyd arose
befbre the date of the bond, and from his 'having issud certificates
forthe public lands in his own name and in the name- of others
without receiving payment of the purchase money therefor, - and
it id shown by the testimony bf the witnesses and the verdict of the
jury that such was the manner of his defalcation, - may we not legitimately protest against the right of the executive government sue-

cesifialy to call on the judiciary to aid them in violating the legisla-

JANUARI

TERM, 1847.

The United States v.

43

Boyd et al.

tion of Congress in this respect, and find security in the confidence
that this court will never sanction such a .disposition of aiy portion
of the public domain. But what should be the course of the landoffice department on the matter before us ? We think it is easy and
natural and what their duty enjoins, and about which they will have
no difficulty.
By pr6per proceedings to ascertain what lands have thus been
gntered, sdt aside the entries and have the lands disposed'of
as the act of Congress provides ; these entries are nullities, and
even if a patent had issued it would not affect the title of the United
States.
or this we 'beg leave to refer the court to the case of'
Stoddard and others v. Chambers, 2 Howard Supreme Court Reports of the United. States, 318. There, it is said "nd title can
be valid which has been acquired against law. The patent of the
defendant having been for land reserved from appropriation is void."
We may then certainly say that a false certificate made in violation of law and in fraud is void, aud does not pass any title to the
land out of the United States.
3d. The matters of the third point we think we have sufficiently
considered of in what has been said on the first and second.
The fourth point, that V. M. Garesche was the agent of the
general land-office to settle with Boyd, as receiver, that he made
such settlement prior to the date of the bond, ascertained tuat the
defalcation had thus accrued, and fraudulently enjoined secrecy oi
the officers and clerks in fraud of the defendants, we think we have
sufficiently shown.
Th6 fact is, he was such agent, and we think that the court below
was bound to take notice that he was, such without-ny direct proof..
But William Dowsing, the register of the' land-office, says,"1Some time between the 10th and 20th of May, 1837, V. M.
Garesche, Esq., produced to him the letter of his appointmieir fom
the general land-office department of the United States, authorizing
him to examine certain land offices, of which this was one ; -and
from a knowledge derived from a frequent correspondence with the
land-office department, I knew te letter of appointment which he
produced to be genuine."
John Davies says,- " S6me time in thespring or summer of
1837, the general government sent an agent, named V. M. Garesche,
for the purpose of examining into the condition of the land offices."
Robert E. Harris says, that, -"
In the latter part of the spring oi
the first of the summer bf 1837, a settlement took place in the landoffice, between Col. Boyd, and a man by thi name of Garesche, is
agent of the' government, in reference to such -defalcation. He
had no'other kno%*ledge of the agency of Garesche, or his authority
as such, except that he was recognized and regarded by the'regiter
and receiver of the land office at Columbus as such .agent, dn.wbo
settled w th him as such." This we have tought,sufficient.

44

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boyd et al.

His appointment, whatever may have been its form, was not in
the possession or control of the defendants. The injunction of
official secrecy by G'aresche-as to Boyd's defalcation, se6the tes-,
timony of William Dowsing, and that of John Davies. This suppression of the fact of Boyd's defalcatinn was a gross fraud on the
sureties, who after the defalcation became sareties. It is.most
probable, that had the sureties been informed that Boyd had become a defaulter to the government to that large amount, they
would have.been sufficintly prudent never to have become responsible 'for .hbih on the bond. Fraud vitiates all transactions. It
makes void a judgment, which is a much more solemn act than
the issuing of a patent. 2 Howard, S. C. R. 318. It certainly
ought to defeat a false certificate.
The plaintiffs -further offered the copy of. another and different
bond, which was objected to by the defendants ; and as it related
to another, separate, distinct, and independent matter, the court
very properly sustained the objection.
-The plaintiifs also objected to some portions of the testimony,
on account of the manner in which the'several witnesses gave in
their testimony, but as the objections were trivial, unbecoming the
dignity of the investigation, and as the testimony is in other respects
regarded amply sufficient to sustain the verdict, we have not thought
it necessary to notice them in detail. ' When the court charged the
jury thal the plaintiffs had made out a prim&facie ease, the plaintiffs' attorney substantially obtained all the 'charges be asked for ;
the court bad Wready permitted the treasury transcript to be given
in evidence'to the juryg, as being in judgment of law sufficient to
establish the plaintiffs' right ; the jury of necessity regarded them
in that light. But the defendants were allowed to i&peach the
transcripts for illegality and fraud. 'It was equally regular to imapeach them for any omnission or mistakes, and thus' they were com;pelled to yield the influence of the rebutting proofs.
In view of the whole case, we are satisfied it will be seen that
the said Boyd had not' any money of the United States at or after
the execution of the bond,-but that the same had all been paid into
the treasury.
That his, entire defalcation arose from his fraudulently and illegally issuing land certificates in his own name, and in the name of
others, without being paid the purchase money, that they ought to
be set aside, and the land qonsidered, as yet belonging to the govemment.
That it was a fraud in Garesehe to conceal from the sureties the'
fact ,of Boyd's defalcation, and that the judgment of the court below ought not to be reversed, but the executive government left to
the discharge of its duty in, setting aside those. illegal entries andcertificates.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

45

The United, States v. Boyd et al.

Synopsis of the Argument of J7ohn Henderson,for Defendants.
The bill of exception filed in this base is of that form which has
heretofore met, and we think 'deservedly, the reprehension of this
court. It comprises, at length, all the testimony on both sides, and
extends to 161 pages, being all the record, less 17" pages.. The
various parts of the 'testimony is chiefly objected to, with a generality of exception, which presents no specific matter of law for-the
consideration of this court, but devolvs it upon this court to sift depositions at length, to a~certain if there be any excelitionable matter
to justify the general bbj6ctions taken.
We should feel ourselves justified, did we think our defence made
it necessary, to object that most of this extended volume of testimony is not before this court on -ny sufficient points of exception,
as to entitle it to be reviewed by this court, under the common law
rules of proceeding, as a court of error. But, waiving all such objections, we shall meet the plaintiffs' case, regardless of this deficiency.
In aggregating the general objections of the plaintiffs to the five
several depositions of the defendants, that they were "1incompetent" testimony, and with intimations that plaintiffs' case rested on
" conclusive" proof, we can reduce these objections to no other
legal position, than that the defendants- were estopped from denying
the plaintiffs' case by any proof whatever. For surely the defendants' testimony was pertifient to the issue, and it is not objected
that the deponents were not competent and disinterested witne~ses.
Nor can it bd doubted but the jury rightly estimatect this teitimony
as disproving the plaintiffs' case. Reduced, then, .to a legal elementary principle, the sum total of these objections is,.that th6 defendants were concluded and estopped in law, from showing the
truth against the fair-seeming, but fictitious case the plaintiffs had
presented.
To this view of the case; our first answer is, that, if this position
has any foundation in law, then it was peculiarly a ease in which the
estoppel should have'been pleaded. It was not an estoppel in pais,
coming up, incidentally as evidence. The supposed matters of estoppel were the treasury transcripts presented by the plaintiffs as
their ground of action, and if regarded by them as records conclusive
on the defendants, they should have pleaded them specially in their
an open and general
replication, and not joined the defendants in.
issue, and then object that the defendants should flot prove their issue
as joined. If, then, it be a case of estoppel, it should have been so
pleaded. 6 Mumford, 120; 2 A. K. Alarqhall, 143; 3 Dana, 103;
2 J..R. 382; 6 Pick. 364 ; 14 Mass..241; 2 Blackford, 465; 2
Penn. 492.
But we say this is not an estoppel, because neither matter of deed
or of judicial record; 18 J. R. 490 ; 3 Wendell 27.

46

SUPREME COURT.
The United States

.- Boyd et al.

And is not an estoppel, because there was no mutuality of obligation between the parties to the matter of estoppel. The United
States were not concluded by Boyd's returns, neither by'the accoupt as stated, nor the fictitious sales of the public lands, thereby
reported to have been sold. Estoppel must he mutual. 9 J. R.
382 ; 3 Randolph, 563.
Boyd's returns were no stronger evidence than receipts, which
never work an estoppel. 12 Pick. 557.
But, so far froin the plaintiffs' proof from the treasury department being "conclusive," apart, W not allof it, was clearly- madmissible s evidence at all.
The account showing settlement and balaiice struck by the treasmy, department against Boyd was. no sort of legal proof.- It
resulted from no accounts and charges kept in the. treasury department, ind included no charge for money advanced or paid out
of the department, but was only the result of certain treasury officers, in stating Boyd's account from r ported returns, and data
furnished by himself.
Now, the rule is settled in tie case of United- States v. Buford,
and in other cases, that in a suit for money which came to the hands
of a collecting officer in pais, and not received from the treasury
department, a treasury statement, in such case, is no evidence of
the debt. 3 Pet. 29; 6 Pet. 202; 5 Pet. 292 ; 8 Pet. 375.
! The papers certified from p. 17 to 22 of the record, are of this
description, and should not have been admitted in evidence at all.
Gilpin's D. C. R. .47.
The accounts certified from p. 48 to'55 as " true copies of the
originals on file in said department," are perhaps' by another provision of law than that which provides for certified transcripts of accounts from the treasury books, admissible as secondary probf of
the facts'contained, but not.necessarily of a debt due,' and certainly
as open to correction or disproof as accounts and receipts ever are,
arid having, in no sense whatever, any judicial verity. See cases
cited above.
. The plaintiffs' testimony shows, that the alleged balance 'of account due from Boyd was not of money received after execution
of defendants' bond, but is carried forward, as "an amount remaining on hand per last return," fror the months of February or March
preceding.
The facts, then, which we have assumed as our right to prove are,
that this reported balance was a mere fiction of figures, without any
-reality; and that the fiction was made to figure as fact,-by a device,
palpably violative of the laws of the United States, in selling the
public domain on credit, and charging up the price as cash received.
We have answered, that it was our province to sliow, antf by
our proof we have shown, to the satisfaction of a court and jury, that
the balance of money on hand, as reported by Boyd,-since the exe-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

47

The United States v. Boyd et al.

cution of defendants' bond, was a fiction. 5 Pet. 373; 8. Pet399.
We have shown by our proof, too, that this balance arose from
sales made of the public land on credit, and for which no money
was received.
Can this court assume, for a moment, this may be lawfully done
by the mere unmeaning device of a receiver, charging up his account
sales, that the price was received, when in truth it was not.
The law says credit shall not be allowed for the purchase money
on sale of the public lands after 1st July, 1821. Land Laws, 324.
That lands subjectto entry shall be paid for "1at the time of making
such entry.t Land Laws, 324.
Is there any equitable license for the land officer, or this court, to
dispense with the positive requiremenits of this law?
Now, we maintain, the provisions and requirements of this law
rest in a superior and pervading public jolicy, and, as such, its high
commands are in no sense directory, but indatory and peremptory.
Laws founded in public policy have no flexible equities authorizing
any countenance to be given by the courts'to their violation. Nor
can it be tolerated, to meet any particular act of 'the citizen, that
their known violation should be judicially covered up by an estoppel.
Such are the English shipping acts, and so of ours; and of like high
statutory policy is the system of our laws for the sale of public lands.
1 Story's Equity, § 177.
In-this case, then, the court will declare it to be the duty of the
land department of our government to disregard these affected and
unreal sales, consider them as void, and resume the title t6 the
government, as unaffected by the acts now attempted to be validated; and such, in effect and principle, has been the previous
decisions of- this court. No title is vilid if acquired against law.
patent
.A issued against law is void. 2 Howard,'318 ; 13
Pet. 511.
Lands not subject to sale by law do not pass. without a register's
certificate and payment; and the title of the tnited States is not
diverted or affected thereby. 13 Pet. 498.
So, too, 11 Wheat. 384 ; 9 Cranch, 87.
The objection to Boyd as a witness is not well taken. He was
exonerated by the parties for whom he deposed, for both debt and
costs, and had, therefore, no interesfs disqualifying him. 11 Pet.
86 ; 7 Cranch, 206 ; 7 Wheaton, 356.
The objections to the charges and refusal to charge by the court
below, we regard as wholly groundless. The court charged the
full stredgth of the plaintiffs' case, and 'the other points vindicate
themselves on reading.
But if this court should possibly find error in the trial, then we
fall back upon the first error in the judgment of the court below
on the pleadings, and demand the judgment of this court on the

48

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States o. Boyd et al.

plaintiffs' demurrer to defendants' first rejoinder, in which we think
there is manifest error in the court's judgment against us.
JOHN HENDERSON,

.Attorneu for Defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON, after reading the statement in .the commencement of this -report, proceeded to deliver the opinion of the
court.
When this cause was formerly before the court, involving a question arising out of the pleadings, it was held, that the condition of
the bond was prospective, and subjected the sureties to liability
only in case of default or official misconduct of the principal occurring after the execution of the instrument; and that if intended
to cover, past dereliction of duty, it should have been made retrospective in its language; that the sureties had not undertaken for
past misconduct. 15 Pet. 187.
The case is now before us,'after a trial on,the merits, and the
question is, 'Whether or not any breach of duty has been established,
which entitled the government to recover the amount in question,
or any part ofit, against the'sureties within the condition of the bond
as already expounded.
Since the verdict rendered under tffe instruction given by the
court below, we. must assume that the whole amount of the
$59,622.60, of which the receiver is in default to the government,
accrued against him in consequence of the entry of public lands in
his own iame, and in the name of others, without the payment of
any money in respect to the tracts entered in his own name, and
without exacting payment of others, in respect to the tracts entered
in their names; and all happening before the 15th June, 1837, the
date bf the bond. So the jury have found.
The fraud, thus developed, was accomplished at the time by
means of false certificates of the receipt of the purchase money by
the receiver, which were given by .him in the usual way, as the
entries for the several tracts of land were made at the register's office and also by entering.and keeping the account' with the, gov-"
ernment the same as if the money had been actually paid as fast as
the lots were-, entered. The monthly. or quarterly returns to the
proper department would thus appear unexceptionable, and the
fraud concealed until payment of the balances should be called for
by the Government.
. According to the finding of the jury, therefore, the whole of the
money, of which the receiver is claimed to be, and no doubt is, in
default, and for which -the sureties are and ought to be made responsible, weie not only'not in his hands ot custody at the timeof the execution of the bond, but, in.point- of fact, never bad been
in his hands at any time before or since. No part of 'it was ever
received by any body. The whole of the account charged was

JANUARY

TERM,

The United States v.

1847.

49

Boyd et al.

made up by means of fabricated certificates of' the receiver,, and
false entries in his returns to the government.
The act of Congress of the 24th of April, 1820, § 2 (3 Statutes
at Large, 566), provides, -" That credit shall not be allowed for
the purchase money on the sale of any of the public lands which shall
be sold after the first day of July next ; but every purchaser of land
sold at public sale thereafter shall, oft the day of the purchase, make
complete payment therefor ; and the purchaser at private sale shall
produce to the register of the land office a receipt from the. treasurer of the United States, or from the receiver of public orneys of
the district, for the amount of the purchase money on any tract, before he shall enter the same at the land office."
The acts of the receiver, out of which the defalcation in question
arose, were in direct violation of this provision of. law, and constituted a breach of official duty, which made him liable at once as a
defaulter to the government, and would have subjected his sureties
upon the official bond, if one had been given, covering this period.
It was doubtless by some accident that the bond was omitted, as
it will be seen by reference to the acts of Congress, 3d March,
1833, § 5 (4 Statutes at Large, 653)-, and 3d of March, 1803, § 4,
and 10th of May, 1800, § 6 (2 Statutes at Large, 75, 230), that a
bond with sufficient sureties should have been given by the receiver,
before he entered upon the duties of his office.
It is clear, therefore, that the defalcation had accrued, and Boyd
had become a defaulter and debtor to the government, before the
present sureties had undertaken for his fidelity in office, unless we
construe their obligation to be retrospective, and. to cover past as
well as future misconduct, which has already been otherwise determined.
Whether a receiver can purchase the public lands within his district in his own name, or in the name of others for his benefit,
while in office, consistent with law and the proper discharge of hig
official duties, it ignot now necessary to express an opinion.
The register is expressly prohibited, act of Congress., 10 May,
1800, § 10 (2 Statutes at Large, 77), and it would have been as
well if the prohibition had included the receiver.
One thing, however, is clear, and which is sufficient for the purpose of this decision, the act of Congress, forbidding the sale of the
.public lands on credit makes no exception in favor of any officers.
I-e must purchase, if he purchases at all, upon the terms prescribed. If this is impracticable, it only proves that the duty of the
receiver is inconsistent hnd incompatible with. the duty of the purchaser, which might amount to a virtual prohibition. But, if otherwis,e, and the receiver allowed to purchase, the money must be paid
over, as in the case of other purchasers, and deposited at the time
of the purchase with the other moneys received and held by him
in trust for the government. The public moneys in his hands constiVOL. V.

5

50

,

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v., Boyd

et al.

tute a fund, which it is his duty to keep, and which the law presumes
is kept, distinzt and separate. from his own private affairs. It is
only upon this view, that he can be allowed to purchase the- public
lands at all, consistently with the provisions of the act of Congress.
It has been contended, that the returns of the receiver to the
treasury -department after the execution of the bond, which admit
the money to be then in his hands to the amount claimed, should be
conclusive upon the sureties. We do not thinl so. The accounts
rendered to the department of money received, properly authenticated, are evidence, in the first instance, of the indebtedness of the
officer against the sureties ; but subject to explanation and contradiction. They are responsible for all the public moneys which were
inhis hands at the date of the bond, or that may have come into
them afterwards, and not properly accounted for ; but not for
moneys which the officer may choose falsely to admit in his hands,
in his accounts with the government.
The sureties cannot be concluded by a fabricated account of
their principal with his creditors ; they may always inrquire into the
reality and truth of the transactions existing between them. The
principle has been asserted and applied by this court in several
cases.
If the case, had stood upon the first instruction of the court below,
and to which we have already adverted, there would be no -difficulty
inaffirming the judgment. But the second instruction was erroneous.
The court charged, that if the jury believed, from thee evidence,
that fraudulent design existed, on the part of Boyd and Garesche, to
conceal the fact of the iormer's defalcation from the sureties until
they had executed the bond, and that such design was communicated
to the Secretary of the Treasury, and his answer received beford the
execution, in that case the bond would be fraudulent 4nd void, and
the sureties not liable.
Now, in the first place, there is no evidence in the case, laying a
foundation for the charge of fraud in the execution of the bond, in
the view taken. by the court as matter of fact, and therefore the
construction was improperly given. And, in the second place,,if
there had been, inasmuch as the condition bf the bond is prospective, any fraud in respect to past transactions not within the condi-.
tion, which is the only fraud pretended, could not, upon any princi-.
ples, have the effect of rendering the instrument null and void in its,
"prospective operation. We may add, also, that, so far as the
agency of Garesche was material in making out the allegation of
fraud for the purpose of defeating the action, the proof- was altogether incompetent. His acts and declarations for the purpose
were admitted without previous evidence of his appointment asagent ; and also secondary proof, of the contents of a pretended
letter .of'appointment, without first accountingfor the non-production
of the-original.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
Pepper et al. v.

51

Dunlsp et al.

Before a party can be made responsible for the acts and declarations of another, there must be legal evidence of his authority to act
in the matter.
The counsel for the defendants ask the court to revise the judgment of the court below, rendered upon the demurrer to the rejoinders
of the defendants to the plaintiffs' amended replication, overruling
the demurrer, insisting that the rejoinder was good, and that judgment
should have been rendered for the'defendants.
The answer to this is, that the withdrawal of the demurrer, and
going-to issue upon the pleading, operated as a waiver of. the judgment.
If the detendants had intended to have a review of that judgment on
a writ of error, they should have refused to amend the pleadings, and
have permitied the judgment on the demurrer to stand.
Another ground upon which the judgment must be reversed is, that
a judgment for costs was rendered against the plaintiffs. The United
States are not liable for costs,
Some other points were made in the course of the trial, but it is
unimportant to notice them.
Judgment of the court below reversed, with a ienire de novo.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause- be and the same is hereby remanded-to the said Circuit Courtwith directions to award a venire
faciasde novo.

JAMEs PEPPER, SABAH H. EvANs, GE0RGE MCCULLOUGH, AND LOUISA

MCCULLOUGH, PrAIN rFs ix ERRoR, v. HUGH W. DuNaF, CURATOR,
&C., AND HIS WIFE,
Where a perpetual injunction was granted by a subordinate State court, and, upon
appeal, the highest State court decided that the party in whose fbvor the injunc-tion had been-granted was entitled to relief, and therefore remanded the case to
the same subordinate court from which it had come for further proceedings, this
is not such a final decree ds can be reviewed by this court.
The writ of error must be dismissed, on motion.

THIS case was brought by writ of error, under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana.

