6

SUPREME COURT.
Sewall v. Chamberlain.

by a jury, upon the evidence of persons skilled in the art to which
the patent appertains. The Circuit Court therefore erred in instructing the jury that the specification was too vague and uncertain to support the p.tent, - and its judgment must be reversed.
Order.
This,cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by, counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjtidged by.'this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo

STEPHEN SEWALL, APPELLANT, V. HENRY

V.

CHAMBERLAIN.

Where the prayer of v bill in equity shows that the demand of the complainant is
susceptible of definite computation, and that there can be no recovery over the
sum of two thousand dollars, the appeal to this court will be dismissed, on motion, for want ofjurisdiction.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama, sitting as a court
of equity.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of
the court.
Jifr. Darganmoved to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction..
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
'This cause having been regularly docketed, the appellee now
moves the court to dismiss the appeal, on the ground that the
amount in controversy is not large enough to bring the case within
the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
We have examined the record and find it to be so. By
the averments in the complainant's bill, it seems that the subjectmatter in controversy between himself and the defendant relates to
the foreclosure of a mortgage given to the complainant by one
Stephen Chandler, upon a lot of land in the city of Mobile, to secure the payment of a promissory note made by Chandler in his favor, bearing date 6th August, 1824, for $ 485, payable on the 1st of
March thereafter, which was not paid at maturity, for the collection
of which the complainant made the defendant his attorney and
agent ; also to the purchase of the premises, under a decree for

JANUARY

TERM, 18--7.

7

Dick et al. o. Runnels.

its sale, by the defendant, for one hundred and fifty dollars. The
decree of foreclosure, was for the sum of six hundred and twenty
dollars ninety-one cents, and the complainant avers that the lot
was a valid and sufficient security for the payment of his debt.
After setting out all the circumstances of his case, and specially
interrogating the defendant, the complainant's prayer is, that the
matter may be "referred to a master, to compute and report the
amount found due your orator by the foreclosure decree, with the
interest thereon, and also to compute and report the value of the
mortgaged lot, and its value' at the time it was sold and conveyed
by the defendant to one Samuel P. Bullard (who is admitted by
the complainant to be a bona fide purchaser of -the lot from the
defendant, without any notice of the complainant's equity), and
that the defendant may be decreed to pay, either the amount of the
said decree of foreclosure, and interest on the value of said lot of
land, or the amount received by the defendant from the sale to
Bullard, if the same were sold for its fair and full value, with all
the profits and increase since made by the use of the money, or
legal interest thereon, without any deduction of commissions for
agency."

From this prayer, the complainant's demand is susceptible of
definite computation, and as his recovery could not be extended to
an amount above his first Or alternative prayer, if the recovery in
either case must be below the sum of two thousand dollars, as it
would have to be upon his own showing, this court cannot have
appellate jurisdiction of the cause. We shall direct the dismission
of the appeal.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, and it appearing to the court here that the matter in dis-pute does not exceed the sum or value of two thousand dollars,
exclusive of costs, it is therefore now here ordered and decreed
by this court, that this appeal be and the same is hereby dismissed
for the want of jurisdiction.

N. AND

J. DicK AN CoxPANT v. HARDIN D. RuNNELS.

By the 30th section of the Judiciary Act-of 1789 (1 Statutes at Large, 88), depositions may be taken in certain cases, and notide thereof must be served on the
adverse party or his attorney, provided either of them is within one hundred
miles of the place where such deposition is taken.
A certificate of the-person before whom the deposition was taken, that neither the
adverse party nor his attorney lived within one hundred miles of uch place, and

