JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

441

Waring et il. v. Clarke.
NATHANIEL S. WARING AND PETER DAI~t~AN, OWNERS OF THE STEA1MBOAT DE

SOTO, HER

TACKLE, APPAREL, AND FURNITURE, APPELLANTS,

v. THOIAS CLARKE, LATE MASTER OF THE STEAMIBOAT LuDI,
AND
AGENT OF P. T. MARIONOUX AND T. J. ABEL, OWNERS OF SAID
STEADMBOAT LUDA, HER TACKLE, APPAREL, FURNITURE, AND
IMACHINERY,

APPELLEES.
The grant in the constitution, extending the judicial power 1'to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," is neither to be limited to, nor to be interpreted
by, what were cases of admiralty jurisdiction in England when the constitution
was adopted by the States of the Union.
Admiralty jurisdiction in the courts of the United States is not taken away because
the courts of common law may have concurrent jurisdiction in a case with the
admiralty. Nor is a trial by jury any test of admiralty jurisdiction. The subjectmatter of a contract or service gives jurisdiction in admiralty. Locality gives it
in tort, or collision.
In cases of tort, or collision, happening upon the high seas, or within the ebb and
flow of the tide, as far up a river as the tide ebbs and flows,'though it may be
infra corpus comitatus, courts of admiralty of the United States have jurisdiction.
The meaning of the clause in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, saving
to suitors, in all cases, a common law remedy when the common law is competent to give it, is, that in cases of concurrent jurisdiction in admiralty and at
common law the jurisdiction in the latter is not taken away.
The act of 7th July, 1838 (5 Statutes at Large, 304), for the better security of the
lives of -passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole o part by steam, is
obligatory in all its provisions, except as it has been altered by the act of 1843
(5 Statutes at Large, 626), upon all owners and masters of steamers navigating
the waters of the United States, whether navigating on waters within a State, or
between States, or waters running from one State into another State, or on the
coast of the United States between the ports of the same State or different btates.
By the law of 7th July, 1838, masters and owners neglecting to comply with its
conditions are liable to a penalty of. two hundred dolYars, to be recovered by sdit
or indictment. And if neglect or disobedience of the law shall be proved to
exist when injury shall occur to persons or property, it throws upon the master
and owner of a steamer the burden of proof to show that the injury done was
not the consequence of it.

. THIS case was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for East Louisiana.
It was a suit in admiralty, brought originally in the District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by Thomas Clarke, as late
master of the steamboat Luda, and as agent for her owners, against
the steamboat De Sot and her owners, Waring and Delman, to
obtain compensation for the destruction of the Luda by means -of a
collision between said -ioats.
A libel, answer, and supplemental libel and supplemental answer
were filed, which were as follows :-

To the Honorable Theodore H. McCaleb, Judge of the United
States District Court in and for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The libel and complaint of Thomas Clarke, late master of the
steamboat Luda, of New Orleans (and agent of P. T. Marionoux,
of the parish of Iberville, in Louisiana), and of T. J. Abel, of the
city of New Orleans, owners of the said steamboat Luda, her tackle,

442

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et at. v. Clarke.

apparel, furniture, and machinery, and who authorize libellant to
institute this suit against the steamboat De Soto, her tackle, apparel,
and furniture, whereof.S. S. Selleck now is, or lately was, master,
*nowoin the river Mississippi, in the port of New Orleans, where the
'tide ebbs and flows, and within the admiralty jurisdiction of this
court, and agninst Nathaniel S. Waring, Peter Dalman, and
Parker, all residing within the jurisdiction of this honorable court,
owners of said steamboat De Sao, and also against all persons
lawfully intervening for their interest in said steamboat De Soto,-.in
a cause of collision, civil and maritime; and thereupon the said
Thomas Clarke, master and agent as aforesaid, alleges and articulately propounds as follows :First. That the steamboat Luda, whereof libellant was then
master, was, on the" first day of November last past, at the purt of
New Orleans, and destined on a voyage or trip from thence to
Bayou Sarah, on the river Mississippi, about one hundred and
sixty-five miles from the city of New Orleans, with lading of goods,
wares, and merchandise. to the amount of
in value, or
thereabouts, and several passengers, and was at that time a tight,
stanch, and well-built vessel, of the burden of two hundred and
forty-five [tons]; and was theft completely rigged, and sufficiently
provided with tackle, apparel, furniture, and machinery ; and then
had on board, and in her service, twenty-two mariners and fireman,
which was a full complement of bands to navigate and run said
steamboat Luda on the voyage above mentioned, and all the necessary officers to command saidboat.
Second. That on said first day of November, 1843, the said
steamer Luda, provided and manned as aforesaid, departed from the
said port of New Orleaps, being propelled by steam, on her aforesaid voyage to Bayou Sarah ; and, in the prosecution of her voyage
on the said river Mississippi, arrived at what is called the Bayou
Goula bar, in said river, about ninety-five miles from the said port
of New Orleans, on or about the hour of two o'clock, A. M., of
the morning of the second day of November, 1843, and was running
as near to, or closely "hugging"
said bar, being on-her starboard,
as she could safely ; whilst the said steamer was running in that
position, pursuing the usual track which steamboats ascending the
said river take under the' dircumstances, and going at her usual
speed of about ten miles per hour, at the time aforesaid, within
the. ebb and flow of the tide, and within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction of this honorable court, Garrett Jourdan, the :pilot of
said steainer Luda, who was then at the wheel, and controlled and
directed said boat on said voyage, and Levi Babcock, also the pilot
of said boat, and who was then on the hurricane-deck of said boat,
obsdrved the said steamboat De Soto, whereof the said S. S.
Selieck was then master, of the burden of two hundred and fifty
tons, or thereabouts, descending said river, being propelled by

JANUARY TERM, 184'7.

443

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

steam, and controlled and directed at the time by one James
Wingard, pilot of said boat, who then bad the wheel steeiing said
boat in a direction parallel with, and at a distance from, the course
then pursued by the Luda, sufficient to have passed the said Luda
without touching ; and at a distance of about nine hundred feet or
more, and in that position, the said boats continued to run, the Luda
ascending, the De Soto descending, the said river as aforesaid,
until their bows were nearly opposite to each other, when, notwithstanding there was sufficient room for said boats to have passed each
other without collision, and notwithstanding the said Luda was ,then
in her proper position, running as near said bar -as she could safely,
said James Wingard, the said pilot of the De Soto, suddenly turned
the wheel, and threw the De Soto out of her proper position, and
changed her course nearly at right angle to the one she [had] been
running, in a direction towards the Luda ; and notwithstanding the
pilot of the said Ldaa rang her bell, and threw her fire-doors open
to apprize the De Soto of the situation of the Luda, the said pilot
of the De Soto, either inientionally and wilfully, or most grossly,
negligently, and culpably, ran the bow of the De Soto, with great
force and violence, foul of and against the Luda, about or near
midship on the larboard side, and thereby so broke and damaged
the hull and machinery of the Luda, that the said Luda in a few
minutes filled with water and sunk to the bottom of said river, in ten
or twelve feet waters where she now lies a total wreck, worthless,
and an entire loss ; and-so sudden did she fill with water and sink,
that two of the crew, a white man and negro, were drowned, or are
missing and cannot be found; the balance of the crew, officers,
and passengers barely escaped with their. lives, and were not able
to save any thing of the freight on board, or any part of said boat,
her tackle, apparel, and furniture, &c., or even their clothes, the
whole being lost by reason of the said boat De Soto having run foul
of and against the said Luda as aforesaid, and sinking said Luda as
aforesaid.
Third. That at the time the collision and damage 'mentioned in
the next preceding article happened, it was impossible for the
steamer Luda to get out of the way of the said steamer De Soto,
by reason that the former was in her proper position, running as
near to, or closely)" hugging" said bar, as she could prudently arid
safely ; that there 'was room enoulgh for the said steamboat De Soto
to 'steer clear of, and pass by, the said Luda, without doing, any
damage whatever, or coming in eollisidn with the Luda ; and that
if the said James Wingard, the pilot of the said De Soto, had not
changed the direction of thd said'De Sotoi but kept her in her
proper positon as aforesaid, and had not refused, or at least carelessly and culpably neglected, to endeavour to keep clear of said
Luda, which it was his- as well as the dfficers' duty to do, of said
De Soto, and which tney might with ease and safety have done, the

444

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

aforesaid collision, damage, and loss of life and property would not
have happened; and libellant expressly alleges that the same did
happen by reason of the culpable negligence, incompetency, or
wilful intention of the said pilot and officers of the said .De Soto.
Fourth. That the said steamboat Luda, before and at the time
of being run foul of, damaged, and' sunk by the said steamer De
Soto, as bereinbefore mentioned, was a tight, strong, and stanch
boat, and was, together with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and
machinery, worth tile sum of fifteen thousand dollars ; and that the
books, papers, &c., belonging to said boat, and the property belonging to the officers and crew of said boat (exclusive of gocds,
wares, and merchandises on board of said boat), belonging, to
various persons unkndwn' to libellant, as well the value thereof,
werq reasonably worth the sum of one thousand dollars; all of
which was lost as aforesaid, and that by reason of the said steamboat Luda having been run foul of and sunk by the said steamer
De Soto, as hereinbefore mentioned. -Libellant, as master and
agent of the owners of said Luda, has sustained damages to the
amount of sixteen thousand dollars, which sum greatly exceeds the
value of the said steamer De Soto ; and for the payment of whidh
sum the said steamer :De Soto and her bwners, the said Nathaniel
S. Waring, Peter Dalman, and Parker, are liable in solido, and
should be compelled to pay.
Fifth. That all and singular the premises are true and within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of this court ;.in verification
whereof, if denied, the libellant: craves leave to refer to the depositions and proofs to be by him exhibited in this cause ; and libellant
" further alleges, that he has reason to fear that the said steam' "De
Soto will depart in less than ten- day beyond the jurisdiction of this
honorable court.
Wherefore libellant prays, that process in due form of law, according to the course of courts of admiralty and of this honorable
court in causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, mav.issue
against the said steamboat De Soto, her tackle, apparel, macnmery,
and furniture ; and the said .Nathaniel S. Waring, Peter Dalman,
and Parker,. who is the clerk of said boat, may be cited, as well as
all other persons having or pretending *to have any right, title, or
interest therein, to appear and answer all and singular the matters so
articulately propounded herein. That after monition, and other due
proceedings according to the laws and usages of admiralty, that this
honorable court may, pronounce for the damages aforesaid, and condemn the said- Nathaniel S. Waring, Peter Dalman, and Parker, and
all other persons intbrvening for.their interest in said boat, to pay in
solido the sum of sixteen thousand dollars to libellant ; and also to
decree and condemn~the said steamer De Soto, her tackle, apparel,
and furniture, to be'sold to, satisry by privilege and preference the
claim of your-libellant, with his costs in this behalf expended, and

JANUARY TERM, 1847%

445

Waring et al. r. Clarke.

for such other and further decree be rendered in the premises as to
right and justice.ijay appertain; and your libellant will ever pray, &c.
W. S. VASON, Proator.

Thomas Clarke, being duly swem, deposeth, that the material
ellegationg of the abpve libel are true.
THo&As CLARKE.
(Signed,)
Upon this libel the judge ordered admiralty process in rem to
issue against the Aleamboat De Soto, and also process in personam
against the owners, citing them to appear and answer the libel. Th6
answer was as follows :To the Honorable Theo. H. McCaleb, Judge of the District
Court of the United States, within aind for.the Eastern District
of Louisiana.
And now Peter Dalman, of the city of Lafayette, in the district
aforesaid, and Nathaniel S. Waring, intervening for their interest in
.the said steamboat De Soto, and for answer to the libel and complaint of Thomas Clarke, as late master of the steamboat Luda,
hnd agent of P. F. Marionoux and T. J. Abel, late owners of
the steamboat Luda, against the steamboat De Soto, her.tackle, apparel, &c., and against Peter Dalman, and Nathaniel S. Waring, and
Parker, as owners of the said steamboat De Soto, and also against
all persons intervening for their interest in said steamboat De Soto,
allege and articulately propound as follows :First. That the respondents are the true and lawful owners of
the said steamboat De Soto.
Second. That it doth appear from the allegations of the said libel, and these respondents expressly propounded and allege the fact
to be so, that the trespass, tort, or collision set forth and alleged in
the said libel, if any such did take place in the manner and form set
forth in said libel, which these respondents most respectfully deny,
was on the river Mississippi, off and near the mouth of the Bayou
Goula, about ninety-five miles above the city of New Orleans, within
the State of Louisiana,.within the body of a county or parish of
said State, to wit, the parish of Iberville or county of Iberville, in
said State.
Third. The tide dQes not ebb and flow at the place where the
said collision, tort, or trespass is alleged to have taken place.
Fourth. That it is not alleged in said libel, and these respondents aver and propound that the said collision did not take place on
the high seas, or in sailing or navigating to or from: the sea.
Fifth. That neither the said steamboat Luda, nor the said steamboat De S.oto, were, at the time the said collision took place, or
the tort or trespass aforesaid is alleged to have been committed,
employed in sailing or navigating on any maritime voyage, but were
wholly employed, and then were actually pursuing a voyage confined
VOL.

V.

38

446

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et'aL v.

Mlarke.

to. the river Mississippi, to wit, the said steamboat Luda on a roy-.
age from the city of New Orleans to Bayou Sarah, about one hundred and sixty miles above the said city, and the said steamboat
De Soto on a voyage or trip from Bayou Sarah aforesaid to the
city of New Orleans, where her said voyage or trip was to end.
Sixth. That neither the said steimboat Luda, nor the said steamboat De Soto, were built, designed, or fitted, or ever intended to
be employed or used in any manner for a maritime or sea voyage,
nor have they, or either of them, ever been used, 6mployed, or
engaged in any such maritime or sea voyage, but were wholly built,
designed, or intended for -the navigation of the said river Mississippi, or other rivers or streams entering therein, and the transportation of goods and passengers from the said city of New Orleans
up the said river or streams to the interior of the country, and the
transportation of passengers, goods, cotton, and other produce of
the country ffom the landings, and places, and plantations of the inhabitants on the bank or banks of said rivers and streams to -the
said city of New Orleans, vuithout proce ding any further down the
said river Mviississippi, nearer to its 'mouth or to the sea, and were
both so employed at the time the said collision, trespass, or tort is
alleged to have been committed.
Seventh. That this honorable court, by reason of all the matters
and things so above propounded and articulated,, 'has not jurisdiction, and ought not to proceed to enforce the elaim hlleed in the
libel aforesaid against the said steamboat De Soto, or against them,
these respondents, intervening for their'interest,- or against these respondents in their proper persons, as prayed for in and by said
libel.
Eighth. That all and singular the premises are true ; in verification whereof, if desired, these respondents crave leave to refer to
the depositions and other proof to be by them exhibited in this
cause. And the said respondents, in case their said plea to the jurisdiction of the court, so as above propounded, articulated, and
pleaded, should be overruled, then they, for further defensive answer, articulately propound and say, 1st. That they admit that the said two steamboats did come into
collision at the time stated in the said libel, but they do expressly.
deny that the said collision was caused or did happen by any fault,
negligence, or intention of these respondents, or the master, officers,
or crew of the said steamboat De Soto, or any other pergon or persons for whom these respondents, or the said steamboat De Soto,
can in: any manner be liable or responsible.
2d. That the said collision was caused by the fault or negligence,,
or want of skill, in the person or persons having charge or command of the said steamboat Luda, or the pilots, officers, or crew of
said steamboat, or that the same was by accident, for. which these
respondents. are not liable.

JANUA1U

TERM, 1847.

Waring et'al. v.

44"7

Wlarke.

3d. That the said sinking of the said steamboat Luda, and bet
loss alleged in said libel, was not caused by any damage she re-ceived in the collision aforesaid, but by the negligence, want of
skill, and fault of the person or persons in charge of the said steamboat Luda%
4th. That at the time- the said collision did take place the said
steamboat-Luda was not seaworthy, and was not properly provided
with a commander and other usual and necessary officers of competent skill tcr manage and conduct the said steamboat, by reason of
which the collision aforesaid did take place, and the said boat did
afterwards sink.
.5th. That the said steamboat De Soto did suffer a great damage by the said collision, to the amount of five hundred dollars, and
these respondents have and will sttffer great damage by the seizure
and detention of said steamboat De Soto under the process issued
in this case, and to the amount of five thousand dollars.
Wherefore, and by reason of all the matters and things herein
propounded and pleaded, these respondents pray that this honorable
court will pronouncb against the said libel, that the same may be
dismissed, and the said steamboat De Soto restored to your respondents, with all costs in this behalf expended.
That your Honor may pronounce for the damages claimed by
these respondents, as before stated, and condemn the libellants to
pay the same, in solido, to these respondents, and that your respondents may have all. such other and further order, decree, and
relief in the.premises as to law and justice may.appertaiin, and the
nature of their case may require.

(Signed,)

PETER DAL

AN,

N. S. WARING.
The supplemental libel was as follows :To the Honorable Theo. H. McCaleb, Judge of the United States
District Court in and for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The amended and, supplemental libel of Thomas Clarke, late
master of the steamboat Luda, and agent of the owners thereof,
&c., against the steamboat De Soto, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and against Nathaniel S. Waring, Peter Dalman, and Parker, owners thereof, &c., &c., and against all persons intervening
for their interest in the steamer De Soto, &c.,'in a cause of co!lision, civil and maritime, &c., filed herein by leave of this honorable court, first granted and obtained, to amend his original libel
herein filed and pending in said court.
And thereupon the said Thomas Clarke, as master and agent
as aforesaid, doth allege and articulately propound, as amendatory
and supplemental to the allegations articulately propounded in his
said original libel, as follows :-

448

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

First. That at the time of the collision between the said steam.
bo;its, the said De Soto and the said Luda, set forth and described
in the second article of his original libel, to wit, on the first day of
November, 1843, and for a considerable time previous thereto,
both of said boats were employed as regular packets, running between the port of New Orle.ans and the town of Bayou Sarah,
situate on the bank of the Mississippi river, about one hundred and
sixty miles from the city of Neii Orleans, carrying freight and passengers for hire between said places ; and the said. steamboat De
Soto was, at the time the said collision took place, returning from
the said town of Bayou Sarah, on a voyage or trip to the city of
New Orleans, and the steambtat Luda was, at .the said time, going
on a voyage or trip from the city of New Orleans to the said town
of Bayou Sarah ; and libellant expressly alleges, thaCtboth of said
boats were contracted for, intended and adapted to, and were actually engaged in, navigating tide-waters at the time of said collision, running and making trips between the city of New Orleans
and the said town of Bayou Sarah, in the river Mississippi, between which places the tide ebbs and flows the entire distance;
and that the place where the said collision happened, to wit, the
Bayou Goula bar in the river Mississippi, and also the said town
of Bayou Sarah, and the entire distance between the said town
and the city of New Orleans, are within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction of this honorable court.
.Second. That on the night the collision took place between the
said boats, to wit, on the night of the first day'of November, 1843,
there were not two lights hoisted out on the hurricane-deck of the said
boat De Soto, one forward, the other at the stern, of said boat ;
nor did the master and pilot of the said boat De Soto, or either
of them, when the said boat, then descending the said river Mississippi, was within one mile of the boat Luda,^then ascending said
river, shut off the steam of the said boat De Soto, nor permit the
said boat to float down upon the current of said river until the sLid
boat Luda passed the said boat De Soto, as the laws of this Staie
equire boats descending said river to do, when meeting boats as-ending said river ; and hbellant expiessly alleges', that said 'master
aind pilot of the De Soto did neglect or refuse to -comply with the
requirements of said law of this State, as well with the usage.and
customs observed by all boats navigating said river, and that '.had
,the said master and pilot not neglected or refused to comply, With
the requirements of said 'law, but conformed thereto, and observed
the said. usage and customs established, by boats navigating- said
river, by shutting off the steam of the De Soto as soon as they
discovered the Luda, or had approached within one mile of her,
'and permitted the De Soto to float upo*n the current of said river
until the Luda had passed the De Soto, the said collision would
not hdve occurred between the said boats, nor would the said De

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

449

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

Soto have run foul of and against the said Luda, as set forth in the
second article of his original libel.
Third. That at the time of said collision, the said steamer
Luda was earning freight, being employed by libellant in fulfilling
certain verbal contradts of affi'eightment, entered into by and between him and the Port Hudson, and Clinton, and West Feliciana
railroad companies, and various planters, in the month of October,
1843, to transport all the cotton, and sugar, and produce of the
country, which said railroad companies and planters might deliver on
the banks of the river Mississippi, within the ebb and flow of the tide.
on said river, to the city of New Orleans during, the business season, to wit, from the 1st of October, 1843, to 1st of May, 1844 ;
that the said boat Luda would have earned during, said period,; by
carrying freight in pursuance of said contracts of affreightment, ind
in the fulfilment and discharge thereof, over and above all expenses,
the sum of eight thousand dollars profit for libellant ; that by reason
of the sinking and destruction of the said steamer Luda, by being
run. foul of by the 'said De Soto, as herein and in his original libel
is particularly set forth and alleged, libellant has been compelled to
forfeit said contracts of affreightment, and to lose the amount of
the freight which the said Luda would have earned by fulfilling said
contracts, which he would have done, had he not been prevented
by the sinking and destruction of said Luda by the said De Soto,
to wit, the sum of eight thousand dollars, which sum libellant claims
as damages sustained by him resulting from said colligion, in addition to the value of said boat Luda, claimed in his original libel, to
wit, the sum of sixteen thcusand dollars, which two sums- make the
sum of twenty-four thousand dollars ; and libellant expressly alleges,
that he has sustained, damages to the amount of twenty-four thousand dollars, by reason of the sinl~ing and destruction of the said
steamboat Luda by the said boat De Soto, and that the said boat
De Soto and owners are liable, and ought to be compelled to pay
said sum.
-Fourth. That all and singular the premises are true, in veTification whereof, if denied, libellant craves leave to refer to depositions
ad other proof, to be by hihi exhibited on the trial of this case.
Wherefore, in consideration of the premises,'libellan't reiterates
his prayer-in his original libel, .unto the citations of the owners of
the said boat De Soto, and condemnation of said boat, and prays
that the said owners may be condemned to pay, in solido, the sum
of twenty-four thousand dollars, with all costs in this behalf expended to libellants, and for such other and further relief in the
premises as to justice and equity may appertain, &c.
(Signed,)

The supplemental answer was as follows :
38#

THoAs CLARKE.

450

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

To the Honorable Theo. H. McCaleb, Judgb of the United States
District Court in and for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The amended and supplemental answer of Peter Dalman and
Nathaniel.S. Waring, claimants and respondents in the case now
pending in this honorable court, of Thomas Clarke, late Master of
Steamer Luda, for himself and others, owners of said Steamer, v.
The Steamer De Soto, and these respondents with leave of the
court first granted and obtained to amend their answer ; and thereupon the said respondents and claimants do allege and articulately
propound as follows: First. They admit that the steamers Luda and De Soto, at the
time of the collision, were actually engaged in the Bayou Sarah
trade, and had been so engaged for a short time previous thereto
but they deny that said boats were contracted for or used in navigating tide-waters, and allege that the steamer De Soto was contracted and used for the Red River trade, where ihe tide neither
ebbs nor flows ; and for the reasons given, and for facts stated in
their original answer, that this honorable court has not jurisdiction!
Second. They deny all the allegations in the second article of
said amended libel; and allege that the steamer De Soto was lightened, managed, and guided in a proper, careful, and lawful manner,
at aid before the time of collision, and subsequently thereto.
Third. They deny all the allegations of libellant in the third article of said amended libel, and they further say, that even if the
libellant should show, on the trial of this cause, or be permitted to
do so, which should not be allowed, that they have suffered or sustained consequential damages from said collision, that said libellant
has no right to recover such damages from the respondents ; they
therefore pray that no such claim be allowed the libellants, Md
that these respondents and claimants may have judgment, as prayed
for in the original answer and claim.
JNO. R. GRYmEs,
(Signed,)
War. DUNBAR,
Proctorsfor Defendants.
Upon the two questions of fact raised in these libels and an1st, the extent to which the tide ebbs and flows up
swers, -viz.,
the Mississippi river, and, 2d, to whose fault the collision was to
be attributed, - a great body of evidence was taken, which it is
not thought necessary to insert.
On the 24th of January, 1844, the following judgment was en*
tered by the District Judge :" The court, having duly considered the law and evidence in this
cause, and kor reasons that hereinafter will be given in length and
filed in court, doth now order, and adjudge, and decree that the
plea to the jurisdiction be overruled, and that the libellants do recover from the steamboat De Soto and owners, Peter Dalman and

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

451

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

Nathaniel S. Waring, the sum of twelve thousand dollars, and the
costs of suit; and it is further ordered, that- the steamboat De-Soto
be sold, after the usual and legal advertisements, and that the proceeds thereof be deposited in the registry of the court, subject to
its further order."

From this judgment an appeal was filed to the Circuit Court.
In April, 1844, the appeal came on to be heard in the Circuit
Court, when much additional testimony was produced, and on the
29th April the court ordered that the exception to the jurisdiction
of the court should be dismissed, and the cause proceed on its
merits.
On the 6th of May, 1844, the Circuit Court affirmed the decree
of the District Court, with costs, from which an appeal was'taken.to
this court.
The cause was argued by ,Mr.
Johnson, for the appellants, and
.Mr. Crittenden, for the appellees, upon the two grounds, first, of
the jurisdictioi of the court, and second, on the facts of the case.
The question of jurisdiction' came up again, covering additional
points, in the case of The New Jersey Steam Navigation Company
v. The Merchants' Bank.of Boston, which was argued by ,Mr.
-Imes and Mr. Whipple, for the appellants, and Mr. Greene and
AXr. Webster, for the appellees. The discussion in the latter case
took a wider range than in that now under review, and the reporter
prepared himself with a full report of the arguments of counsel,
upon the entire subject of jurisdiction. But the court having ordered the New Jersey Company case to be continued and reargued,
the reporter is not at liberty, of course, to make use of the materials, and is obliged to submit the report of the case of the two
steamboats to the profession without any arguments of counsel.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a libel in rem, to recover damages for injuries-arising
from a collision, alleged to have happened within the ebband flow
of the tide in the Mississippi river, about ninety-five miles above
New Orleans.
'The decree of the Circuit Court is resisted upon the merits, and
also upon the ground that the case is not within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
We will first consider the point of jurisdiction.
The learned counsel for the appellants, ir. Reverdy Johnson,
contended, that, even if the evidence proved that the collision
took place within the ebb and flow of the tide, the court had not
jurisdiction, because the locality is infra corpus comitatus.
Two grounds were taken to maintain that position.
1. That the grant in the constitution of " all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction" was limited to what were cases of

452

SUPREME CO1 RT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

admiralty and maritime juris diction in England when our Revolutionary war began, or when the constitution was adopted, and that
a c6llision between ships within the ebb and flow of the. tide, infra
corpus comitatus, was not one of them.
2. That the distinguishing limitation of admiralty jurisdiction, and
decisive test against it in England and in the United States, except
in the cases allowed in England, was the competency of 'a court'of
common law to give a remedy in a given case in a trial by jury.
And as auxiliary to this ground it was urged, that the clause in the
ninth section of tht Judiciary Act of '1789 (1 Statutes at Large,
77), CCs i;'ing to suitors in all cases the right of a common law
remedy, where the- common law is competent to give it," took
away such cases from the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
The same posidons have been taken again by Or. .qmes and
.Mr. Whipple, in the case of thd New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company v,. The Merchants' Bank of Boston. Every thing in
support of'them, which. could be drawn from the history of admiralty
jurisdiction in England, or from what had been its practice in. the
United States, and from adjudged cases in noth countries, was
urged by those gentlemen. All must admit, who .hedrd them, that
nothing.was omitted which could be brought to bear upon the subject. We come, then, to the decision of these points, with every
advantage which learned research, and ingenious and comprehensive
deduction from it, can give us.
It is the first time that the point has been distinctly presented to
this court, whpther a case of collision in our rivers, where the
tide ebbs and flows, is within the admiralty juridiction of the courts
of the United States, if the locality be, in the sense in which it is
used by the common law judges in England, infra corpus comitatus. It is this point that we are now about to decide, and it is our
wish that nothing which may be said in the course of our remarks
shall be extended to embrace any other. case of contested admiralty
jurisdiction..
We do not think that either of the grounds taken can be maintained. But before giving our reasons for this conclusion, it will
Le well for us to state the cases in which the instance court- in
England exercised jurisdiction when our constitution was adopted.
In cases to enforce judgments of foreigti admiralty courts, when
the person'6r his goods are within the jurisdiction. Mariners' wages,
except when the contract was under seal, or made out pf the customary way of such contracts. Bottomry, in certain cases only, and
under many restrictions. Salvage, when 'he property shipwrecked'
was not cast ashore. Cases between the several owners of ships,
when they disputed among themselves about the policy or advantage.
of sending her upon a particular voyage, In cases of goods, and
the proceeds of goods piratically taken, which will be arrested by a

JKNUARY TERM, 1847.

453

Waring et aL v. Clarke.

warrant from the court, as belonging to the croln and as droits of
the admiralty. And in cases of collision and- injuries to property
or persons on the high seas.
It may as well be said by us, at once, that, in cases of this last
class, it'has frequently been adjudicated in the E nglish common law
courts, since the restraining statutes of Richard 11. and Henry IV.
were passed, that high seas mean that portion of the sea which
washes 'the open coast ; and that any branch of the sea within the
fauces terra, where a man may reasonabl, discern from shore to
shore, is, or at least may be, within the body of a county. 'infact,
the general rule in Englafid has been, since the time of Lord Coke,
upon the interpretation given by,the courte of common law to the
stattes 13 and 15 Richard II. and 2 Henry IV., to prohibit the
admiralty from exercising jurisdiction in civil cases, or causes of
action arising infra corpus comitatus. So sternly has +he admiralty been excluded from what we believe to have been its
ancient jurisdiction in England, that a prohibition within a few years
has been issued in a case of collision happening between the IsI of
Wight and the Hampshire coast ; and a case of collision in the river
Humber, twenty miles from the main sea, but within the flux and
reflux of the tide,. has been held not to be within -the admiralty
jurisdiction. The Public Opinion, 2 Hagg. t98.r
I It has not, however, been the urndisputed rule, nor allowed to
be the correct interuretation of the statutes, of Richard. It has
always been contended by the advocates of the admiralty, that
ports, creeks, and rivers are within its jurisdiction, and not within
thbse statutes ; meaning that the ancient jurisdiction in such localities was not excluded by the words of the statutes. Browne,however, in his Civil and Admiralty Law, vql. 2, p. 92, thinks they
were within the words of the stathtes ; not meaning, though, to
affirm the declaration of Lord Coke, that those statutes were affirmative of the common law. We think they were not. However much
every true English and American lawyer may feelhimself indebted
to the learning of that great lawyer, and will ever be cautious iof
disparaging it, it is difficult for any -one to read and reflect upon the
part which he took in the controversy upon admiralty jurisdiction in
England, without assenting to Mr. Justice Buller's remarks, in
Smart v. Wolf, 3 Durn. & East, 348 :"
With respect to what is
said relative to the admiralty jurisdiction in 4th 'Inst. 135 I think
that part of Lord Coke's work.has always been received with great
cafitioil, and frequently contradicted. He seems to have. entertained not only a jealousy of, but an enmity against, that jurisdiction.
he passage in 4ili Inst. 135, disallowing the right to take stipu-lations, 'is expressly denied -n 2 Lord Raym. 1826. And I may
conclude with the words of Lord Holt in that case, that in this
case ' Ithe admiralty had jurisdiction, and there is neither statnte nor
common law. to restrain them. '"

454

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

Having thus admitted, to the fullest extent, the locality in England within which the courts of common law permitted the admiralty to exercise jurisdiction in cases of collision, we return to the
ground taken, that the same limitation -is
to be imposed, in like cases,
upon the admiralty courts of the United States.
We have already said it cannot be maintained. It is opposed by
general, and also by constitutional considerations, to which we have
not heard an answer.
In the first place, those who framed the constitution, and the lawyers in America in that day, were familiar with a different and more
extensive jurisdiction in most of the States when they were colonies,
thaa was allowed in England, from the interpretation which was
"given by the common law courts to the restraining statutes of Richard II. and Henry IV. The commissions to the vice-admirals il
the colonies in North America, insular and continental, contained a
much larger jurisdiction than existed in Englafid when they were
-ranted. That to the governor of New Hampshire, investing him
with the power of an admiralty judge, declares the jurisdiction to
extend "1throughout all ana every the sea-shores, public streams,
ports, fresh-water rivers, creeks and arms, as well of the sea as of
the rivers and coasts whatsoever, of our said provinces.? '
In a work by Anthony Stokes, his Majesty's chief justice in Georgia, entitled, "A View of the Constitution of the British Colonies
in North America and the West Indies," will be found, at page 166,
the form of the commission of vice-admiral for the provinces in
North America. He says, in page 150, the dates in the commission
are arbitrary, and the name of any particular province is omitted.
Its language is, -" 1 And we do hereby remit and grant unto you, the
aforesaid A. B., our power and authority in and throughout our
province ofafore mentioned, &c. &c., and maritime ports whatsoever, of the same and thereto adjacent, and also throughout all and
every of the sea-shores, public streams, ports, ffiesfi-water rivers,
creeks and arms, as well of the sea as of the rivers and coasts whatsoever, of our said province of F." The extracts from both commissions are , the same. We have the authority of Chief Justice
Stokes, that all given in the colonies were alike. The jurisdiction
given in those commissions is as large as was exercised in the ancient practice in admiralty in England. It should be observed, too,
that they were given long before any difficulties occurred between
the mother country and ourselves ; and that they contained no
power complained of by us afterwards, when it was said an attempt
was made to extend admiralty powers " beyond these ancient
limits." The king's authority to grant those commissions in the
colonies has never been, and cannot be, denied. In al the appeals
taken from the colonial courts to the High Court of Admiralty in
England, no such thing was ever intimated.
Was it not known, also, that, whilst the States were colonies, vice-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

455

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

admiralty courts had been in all of them, - in some, as has just been
said, by commissions from the crown, with additional powers conferred upon them by acts of Parliament ; in others, by rights reserved in their charters, and in other col6nies by their own legislation ? - that, whether from either souece, they exercised a jurisdiction over all maritime contracts, and over torts and injuries, as well
in ports as upon the high seas ? - that acts of Parliament recognized
their jurisdiction as original maritime jurisdiction, in all seizures for
contravention of the revenue laws ?
Was not a larger jurisdiction in admiralty exercised in Massachusetts, throughout her whole colonial existence, than was permitted
to the admiralty in England by the prohibitions of her common
law courts ? Were her members in the convention which formed
our constitution ignorant of it ?
Were the members from Pennsylvania and South Carolina forgetful, that the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction in the colonies
had been the subject of.judicial inquiry in England, growing out of
proceedings in the admiralty courts of both of those States in revenue cases ? -that
it had been decided in 1754, in the case of the
Vrow Dorothea, 2 Rob. 246, - which was an appeal from the viceadmiralty judge in South Carolina to the High Court of Admiralty,
and thence to the delegates, - that the jurisdiction in admiralty in
the colonies for a breach of the revenue laws was in its nature maritime, and was not a jurisdiction specially conferred by the statute
of William Ill., ch. 2 " ยง 6 ; a judgment which subsequently received the assent of all the common law judges, in a reference to
them from the privy council ? 2 Rob. 246 ; 8 Wheat. 397, note.
This, too, after an eminent lawyer, Mr. West, assigned as counsel to
the Commissioners of Trade and Plantatiqns, had in 1720 expressed
the opinion, that the statutes of 13 and 15 Richard II., ch. 3, and
2 Henry IV., ch. 11, and 27 Elizabeth, ch. 11, were not introductive of new laws, but only declarative of the common law, and
were therefore of force in the plantations ; and that none of the acts
of trade and navigation gave the admiralty judges in the West Indies increase of jurisdiction beyond that exercised by the High
Court of Admiralty at'home.
Shall it be presumed, also, that the members of the convention
were altogether disregardful of what had been the early legislation
of several of the States, when they were colonies, upon admiralty
jurisdiction and the ryles for proceeding in such courts ? - of the
larger jurisdiction given by Virginia by her act of 1660, than was at
that time allowed to the admiralty in England ? - that it was passed
in the year that the ordinance of the republican government in England expired by the restoration ? That ordinance revived much of
th6 ancient jurisdiction in admiralty. It was judicially acted upon
in England for twelve years. When it expired there, the enlightened influences connected with trade and foreign commerce, "and

456

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v- Clarke.

the uncertainty of jurisdiction in the trial of maritime causes," which
led to its enactment, no doubt had their weight in inducing Virginia,
then our leading colony in commerce, to adopt by legislation many
of its provisions. That ordinance and the act of Virginia have, in
our view, important bearings upon the point under consideration.
They were well known to those who represented Virginia in the
convention. In its proceedings, they had an active and intellectual
agency, which makes it very nnlikely that they were unmindful of
the admiralty jurisdiction in Virginia. In New York, also, there
was a court of admiralty, the proceedings of which were according
to the course of the civil law. Maryland, too, had her admiralty,
differing in jurisdiction from that of England.
Further, the proceedings of our Continental Congress in 1774
afford reasons for us to conclude that no such limitation was meant.
The admiralty jurisdiction, ancient and circumscribed as it afterwards wa. in England, and as it was exercised in the colonies, was
necessarily the subject of examination, when the Congress wqs
preparing the declaration and resolves- of. the 14th October, 1774
in which it is said, ",that the several acts of 4 George III., ch.
15, 34; 5 Geo. III., ch. 25 ; 6 Geo. III., ch. 52; 7 Geo. TI.,
oh. 41 ; and 8 Geo. III., ch. 22, Which impose duties for the purpose of raising a revenue in America, extend the power of the admiralty courts beyond their ancient limits." Journal of Congress,
1774, 21. Again, when it was said (Journal, 33), after reciting
other grievances under the statute of 767, --" And amidst the just
fears and jealousies thereby occasioned, a statute was made in the
next year (1768) to establish courts of admiralty on a new model,
expressly for the end of more effectually recovering of the penalties
and forfeitures inflicted by. acts of Parliament, fran- ed for the purpose of raising revenue in America." And again, in the address
to the king (Journal, 47), it is said,- " By several acts of Parliament, made in the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth years of
your Majesty's reign, duties are imposed upon us for the purpose
of raising a revenue, and the powers of the admiralty and vice-admiralty courts are extended beyond their ancient limits ; whereby our
property is taken from us without our consent," &c. Why this
repeated allusion to the ancient limits of admiralty jurisdiction, by
men fully acquainted with every part of English jurisprudence, if
they had not believed it had existed in England at one time much
beyond what was at that time its exercise in her admiralty courts ?
With these proceedings of the Continental Congress every member of the convention which framed the constitution was familiar.
They knew, also, what had been,.the extent and the manner of the
exercisa of admiralty jurisdiction in the States, after the war began,
until the 'articles of confederation had been ratified,- what it had
been thence to the adoption of the constitution. Advised, as they
were by personal experience, of the difficulties vhich attended the

JANUARY

'FRM,

1847.

457

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

separate exercise by the States of admiralty powers, before the
confederation was formed, and afterwards from the restricted grant
of judicial power in its articles, can it be supposed, in framing the
constitution, when they were endeavouring to apply a remedy -for
those evils by getting the States to yield admiralty jurisdiction altogether to the United States, it was intended to circumscribe the larger
jurisdiction existing in them to the limited cases, and those only then
allowed in England to be cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ? - that the latter was exclusively intended, without any reference to the former, with which they were most familiar ? Can it be
reasonable to infer that such were the intentions of the framers of
the constitution ? Is it not more reasonable to say,- nay, may we
not say it is certain, - that, ii their discussions and thoughts upon
the grant of admiralty jurisdiction, they mingled with what they knew
wei e cases of admiralty jurisdiction in England what it actually was
and had been in the States they were representing, with an enlarged
comprehension of the controversy which had been carried on in England for more than two hundred years, bween the judges of the
common law courts and the admiralty, upon the subject of its jurisdiction ? Besides, nothing can be found in the debates of the convention, nor in its proceedings, nor in the debates of the conventions
in the States upon the constitution, to sanction such an idea. It is
remarkable, too, that the words, "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," as they now are in the constitution, were in the
first plan of government submitted to the convention; and that in
all subsequent proceedings and reports they were never changed.
There was but one opinion concerning the grant, and that was, the
necessity to give a power to the United States to relieve them from
the difficulties which had arisen from the exercise of admiralty jurisdiction by the States separately. That would not have been accomplished, if it had been intended to limit the power to the few
cases of which the English courts took cognizance.
But, besides what we have aiready said, there is, in our opinion,
an unanswerable constitutional objection to the limitation of "all
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," as it is expressed in
the constitution, to the cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
in England when our constitution was adopted. To do so would
make the latter a part and parcel of the constitution, - as much so
as if those cases were written upon its face. It would take away
from the courts of the United States the interpretation of what were
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. It would be a denial to
Congress of all legislation upon the subject. It would make, for all
time to come, without an amendment'of the constitution, that unalterable by any legislation of ours, which can at any time be changed
by the Parliament of England, - a limitation which never could
have been meant, and cannot be inferred from the words, which
extend the jurisdiction of the courts of the U3nited States "to all
VeL. V.

39

4N

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." One extension of the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States exists beyond the limitation proposed, just as it existed in the colonies before they became
independent States, which never has been a case of admiralty jurisdiction in England. We mean seizures under the laws of impost, navigation, or.trade of the United States, where the seizures are made
on waters navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons
burden, within the respective districts of the courts, as well as upon
the high seas. And this, we have sh6wn in a previous part of this
opinion, was decided in England as early as 1754, with the subsequent
assent of the common law judges, not to be a jurisdiction conferred
upon the courts of admiralty in the colonies by statutes, but was a
case in the colonies of admiralty jurisdiction (2 Rob. 246). And
so' it is treated in .the ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
We cannot help thinking that section - a declaration by Congress
contemporary with the adoption of the constitution -very decisive
against4he limitation contended for by counsel in this case. Again,
this court decided, -as early as 1805 (2 Cranch, 405), in the case
of the Sally, that the forfeiture of a vessel, under the act of Congress against the slave-trade, was a case of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, and.not of common law. And so it had done before,
in the case of the La Vengeance (3 Dall. 397). Again, Congress,
by an act passed the 19th of June, 18t3 (3 Stat. :at Large, 2),
declared that a vessel employed in a fishing voyage should be answerable for the fishermen's share of the fish caught, upon- a contract made on land, in the same form and to the same effect as any
other vessel is by law liable to be proceeded against for the wages
of seamen or mariners in the merchant service. We sball cite no
more, though we might do so, of legislative and judicial interpretations, to show that the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States is not.confined to the cases of .admiralty jurisdiction
in England when the constitution was adopted.
No such interpretation has been permitted in respect to any other
power in the constitution. In what aspect would it iot be p~rsented, if applied to the clause immediately preceding the grant of
admiralty jurisdiction, - ,, to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other ministers, and .consuls " ? Is that grant, too, to be interpreted by the jurisdiction which the English common law courts exercise
in cases affecting those functionaries, or to be-.regulated by what
Lord Coke says, in4 Inst. 152, to be their liabilities to punishment
for offences ? Try the interpretation proposed by its application to
the grant to Congress " to establish uniform laws on the subject of
bankruptcies throughout the United States." Would it not result
in this, that all the power which Congress had under that grant
was the bankrupt system ofEngland as it existed there when the
constitution was adopted ? Such a limitation upon. that clause we
deny. We think we may very safely say, such interpretations of

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

459

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

any grant in the constitution, or limitations upon those grants, according to any English legislation or judicial rule, cannot be permitted. At most, they furnish only analogies to aid us in our constitutional expositions. We therefore conclude, that the grant of
admiralty power to the courts df the United States was not intended to be limitdd or to be interpreted by what were cases of admiralty
jurisdiction in England when the constitution was adopted.
We will now consider the proposition, that the test against
admiralty jurisdiction in England and the United States is the
competency of a *courtof common law to give a remedy in a given
case in a trial by jury ; or that in all cases, except in seamen's
wages, where the courts of common law have a concurrent jurisdiction with the admiralty, and can try the cause and give redress, that
alone takes away the admiralty jurisdiction. It has the authority of
Lord Coke to sustain it. But it was the effort and the design of Lord
Coke to make locality the boundary in cases of contract, as well as
in tort, that is, to limit the jurisdiction in admiralty to contracts
made on the sea and to be executed on the sea ; and to exclude its
jurisdiction in all cases of marine contracts made on the land, though
they related exclusively to marine services, principally to be executed on the sea. To that extent the admiralty courts were prohibited by the common law judges from exercising jurisdiction,
until the unreasonableness and inconvenience of the restriction
forced them to relax it in the case of seamen's wages. "Then it
was that the common law courts began to reflect upon what jurisdiction in admiralty rested, and upon the principles upon which it
would attach. With the acknowledgment of all of them ever since,
it was affirmed that the subject-matter, and not locality, determined
the jurisdiction in cases of contract. Passing over intermediate
decisions showing the manner and the reasons given or the relaxation in the one case, and the revival of the other, for which the
admiralty always contended, we will cite the case of Menetone v.
Gibbons, 3 Durn. & East, 269, 270, Lord Kenyon and Sir
Francis Buller say, in that case, the question whether the admiralty
has or has not jurisdiction depends upon the subject-matter. We
wish it to be remarked, however, that the manner of proceeding is
another affair, with which we do not meddle now.
It was only upon the principle that the subject-matter in cases of
contract determined- the jurisdiction, that this court decided the
cases of The Aurora, 1 Wheat. 96, The General Smith, 4 Wheat.
438, and The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409.
If, then, in both classes of civil cases of which the instance court
has jurisdiction, subject-matter in the-one class, and locality in the
other, ascertains it, neither a jury trial nor the concurrent jurisaletion of the common law courts can be a test for jurisdiction in either
class. Crimes, as well those of which the admiralty has jurisdiction
as those of which it has not, except in cases of impeachment, the
-

460

SUPtfEME COURT.
Waring et al. v, Clarke.

constitution declares shall be tried by.a jury. But there is no provision, as the, constitution. originally was, from which it can be inferred that civil causes in admiralty were to be tried by a jury,
contrary to, what the framers of the constitution knew was the mode
of trial of issues of fact in the admiralty. We confess, then, we
cannot see how they are to be embraced in the seventh amendment
of the constitution, providing that in suits at common law the trial
by jury should be preserved. - Cases under twenty dollars are not
so provided for. *Does not the specification of amount show the
class of suits meant in the amendment, if any thing could show it
more conclusively than the term "suits at common law" ?
Suits- at common law are a distinct class, so recognized in the
constitutibn, whether they be such as are concurrent with suits
of which there is jurisdiction in admiralty, or not. Can concurrent. jurisdiction imply exclusion of jurisdiction from tribunals,
, in cases admitted to have been cases in admiralty, without trial by
jury ? Again, suits at common law indicate a class, to distinguish
them from suits in eqjuity and admiralty; cases in admiralty another class distinguishable from both, as well as to the system of
laws determining them 6s the manner of trial, except that in equity
issues of fact Inay be sent to the common' law courts for a trial y
jury. Suppose, then, the seventh amendment of the constitution bad,
not been made, suits at the common law and in admiralty would have
been tried in the accustomed way of each. But an amendment is
made, inhibiting any law from being passed which shall take away the
right of trial by jury in suits at iommon law. Now by what rule of
interpretation or by what course of reasoning can such a provision
be converted into an inhibition upon the mode of trial of suits which
are not exclusively suits at common law, recogiz~d, too, as such by
tie constitution, for 'the trial of which Congress can establish courts
which are not courts of common law, but courts of admiralty, without or with a jury, in its discretion, to try all issues of fact ? Tried
in either way, boughb, they are ยงtill cases in admiralty, and this power,
in Congress; under the grant of admiralty jurisdiction, to try issues of
fact
by jury, being as well known when the seventh amendment
.was made as it is now, is conclusive that it was done with reference
this result,
law alone.
There
is no escape
to suitsitis
at common
unless
to be implied
that the
amendments
werefrom
proposed
by
Ipersons careless or ignorant o the difference in the mode of trial of
not so, and
for
suits,
at some
common
law and
in 'admiralty.
But they
were
we finLi
of them
in Congress,
a few months
after,
preparing
concurring in the enactmentof a. law, that the "trials of issues in
fact in the District Courts, in all causes except civil causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, shall be by jury:"
In respect tothe -cluen the ninth section of the udeiary
s
Act, -"
saving and reserving to. suitors in all cases a common
-law remedy where the common law is competent to give it," -we

JANUARY

TERN, 1847..

461

Waring et al..v. Clarke.

remark, its meaning is, that in cases' of concurreit jurisdiction, inadmiralty and common law, the jurisdiction in the latter is not
taken away. The saving is for the benefit of suitors, plaintiff and
defendant, when the plaintiff in a case of coricurrent jurisdiction
chooses to sue in the common law courts, so giving to himself and
the defendant all the advantages wlich such tribunals can give.to
suitors in them. It certainly could not have been intended more
for the benefit of the defendant than for the plaintiff, which would
be the case ithe could at his will force the plaintiff into a common
law court, and in'that way release himself and his property from 'all
the responsibilities which a court of admiralty can impose upon both,
as a security and indemnity for injuries of which a libellant may complain, - securities which a court of common law cannot give. Having disposed of the objections to the jurisdiction of the
courts of admiralty of the United States, growing out of the supposed limitation of them to the cases allowed in England and from
the test of jury trial, we proceed to consider thabt objection to jurii
diction in this case, because the collision took place ifra corpus
comitatus. We have admitted the validity of this objection in
England, but on the other hand it cannot be denied-that the restriction there to cases of collisinn happening super altum mare, bf
without the fauces ierrn, was imposed -by the statutes of Richard,
contrary to what had been in England the annient exercise of
admiralty jdrisdictibn in ports and bavefts within the ebb and flow of
the' tide. We have seen no case, ancierit or modeim, from which it
can correctly be inferred, that such exercise of jurisdiction was pr6hibited by mere force of the common law. -The most that call be
said in favor of the statutes of'Richard being affirmative of the common law, are. the assertions of Lord Coke and the prohibitions of
the common law courts, subiequent to those statutes, and founded
upon them, restricting the jurisdiction of the courts of admiralty
to cases of collisions 'happening upon the high seas ; contrary to
what we have already said was its ancient jurisdiction in ports and
havens in cases of torts and collision, and certhiily in opposition
to what was th'en, and still continues to be, the admiralty jurisdiction, in cases of collision, of every other country in Europe.
But giving to such prohibitions of the cdurts of common law
the utmost authority claimed for them, - that is, that they aire affir nances of the common law as interpretations of the statutes, of
Richard, - does it follow. that they are to be taken as a rule in'the
admiralty courts oit the United States in cases of collision ? Must
it not first be'shown that the statutes of Richard were in force a
such in America, and that the colories considered and adopted that
portion of the common l4w as applicable to their situation ? Now,
the statutes of Richard were never in force in anj of the colonies,
except ds-they were adopted by the legislation of some of tfiem ;
and the common law only in its geneial principles., as they were ap39*

462

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

plicable, with such portions of it as were adopted by common
consent in any one of the colonies, or by statute. This bding so,
the rule in England for collision cases being neither obligatory here
by the statutes of Richard nor by the common law, we feel ourselves permitted tp look beyond them, to ascertain what the locality
is which gives jurisdiction-to the courts of the United States in
cases of collision or tort, or what makes the subject-matter of any
service or undertaking a marine contract. Are we bound to say,
because it has been so said by the common law courts in England
in reference to the point under discussion, that sea always means
high sea, or the main sea ? - that the waters flowing from it into
havens, ports, and rivers are not "parcel of the sea " ? -that
the fact of the political division of a country into counties makes it
otherwise, and takes away the jurisdiction in admiralty, in respect
to all'the marine means of commerce and the injuries which may
be done to vessels in their passage from the sea to their ports of
destination, and in their outward-bound voyages until they are upon
the high sed ? Is there not a surer foundation for a correct ascertainment of the locality of marine jurisdiction in the general admiralty law, than the designation of it by the common.law courts in
England f Especially when the latter has in no instance been apPlied by England as a limitation upon the general admiralty law in
any of her colonies ; and when in ill of them, until the -act of .2
William IV., c. 51, was passed, thie commissions gave to herviceadmirals jurisdiction "throughout all and every of the sea-shores,
public streams, ports, fresh-water rivers, creel~s and arms, as well
of the sea as of the rivers and coasts whatsoever." Besides, the
use of the word sea to fix admiralty jurisdiction, and what part of
it might be within the body of a county, have not been settled
points among the common law judges in England. Lord Hale differed from Lord Coke. The former, in defining what the sea is,
says,- " that -it "s either that- which lies within the body of the
county or without ; that-arm or branch of the sea which lies within
the fauces terrac is, or at least may.be, within the' body of a county ;
that part which lies not within the body of a county is called the
main sea.' It is difficult to reconcile the differences of opinion and
of definition given by the common law tourts in Lord Coke's day,
and for fifty years afterwar ds, as to the meaning and legal application of the word sea, so as to make a practical rule to govern the
decisions of cases, or to determine what were cases of admiralty
jurisdiction. But there is. no difficllty in making such a rule, if
the construction -of it, by the admiralty courts, is adopted. In
that construction, it meant- not Qnly high sea, but arms of the sea,
Waters flowingq.rom it into ports and havens, and as high upon rivers
as the tide ebbs and flows. We think in the controversy between
the courts of admiralty and common law, upon the subject of jurisaiction, that the former have the best,of -the argument ; that they

JANUARY

T]DRMi, 1,847,

46.

Waring ,et al. v. Clarke.

maintin the jurisdiction for which they contend with more learnmg, more directness of purpose, and without any of-that verbal
subtilty which is found in the arguments of their adversaries. The
conclusions of the admiralty, too, are more congenial with our geographical conditi6n. We may very reasonably infer they were
thought so on that a~count by the framers of the constitution when
the judicial grant was expressed by them in .the words, - ," all
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." In those words it
is given by Congress to the courts, leaving to them the interpretation of what were such cases ; as well the subject-matter which
makes them so, as the locality which gives admiralty jurisdiction
in cases of tort and collision. The grant, too, has been interpreted
by this court in some cases of the first class, which leaves no doubt
upon our minds as to the locality which gives jurisdiction in the
other. We do not consider it an open question, but res adjudicata
by this court. In Peyroux et al. v. Howard & Varion),.7 Pet.
342, the objection to the jurisdiction was overruled, upon the
ground that the subject-matter of the service rendered was maritime, and performed within the ebb .and flow of the tide, at New
Orleans. The court say, although the current in the Mississippi at
New Orleans may be so strong as not to be turned backward by
the tide, yet if the effect of the tide upon the current is so great as
to occasion a regular rise and fall of the water, it may. properly be
said to be within the ebb and flow of the tide. The material consideration is, whether the service is essentially a maritime service
and to be performed on the sea or on tide water. In the case of The
Steamboat Orleans v. Phcebus, 11 Peters, 175, the jurisdiction of
the court was denied, on the ground that the boat was not employed
or intended to be employed in navigation and trade on the sea, or
on tide waters. In Steamboat Jefferson; Johnson claimant, 10
Wheat. 428, this court says, -" 1 In respect to contracts for the! ire
of seamen, the admiralty never pretended to claim, nor could it
rightfully exercise, any jurisdiction, except in cases where the service'was substantially performed, or to be performed, an the sea or
upon waters idithin the ebb and flow of the tide. This is the prescribed limit, which it was not at liberty to transcend. We say,
the service was to be substantially performed on the sea, or on tide
water, because there is no doubt that the jurisdiction exists, although the comamencernent or termination of the voyage may happen to be at som place beyond the reach of the tide. The material consideration is, whether the service is essentially a maritime
service. In the. present case the voyage, not only in its commencement and termination, but in all its intermediate progress,
was several hundred miles above the obb and flow of the tide ; and
iii no just sense can the wageยง be considered as earned in a maritime employment." In- United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72,
where th3 question certified to thb court directly involved what was

464

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

the admiralty jurisdiction, under the grant of " all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," the language- of this court is, "The question which arises is, What is the true nature and extent
of the admiralty jurisdiction ? Does' it, in cases where it is dependent upon locality, reach beyond high-water *ark ? Our opinion is, that in cases purely dependent upon the locality of the act
done, it is limited to the sea, and to tide waters, as far as the tide
flows ; and that it does not reach beyond high-water mark. It is
the doctrine which has been repeatedly asserted by this court; and
we see no reason to depart from it." Now, though none -of the
foregoing cases are cases of collision upon tide waters, but of contracts, services rendered essentially maritime, and in a case of wreck,
-the
point ruled in all of them, as to the jurisdiction of the court
in tide water as far as the tide flows, was directly presented for decision in each of them. The locality of jurisdiction, then, having
been ascertained, it must comprehend cases of collision happening
in it. Our conclusion is, that the admiralty jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States extends to tide waters, as far as the
tide flows, though that may be infra corpus comitatus ; that the
case before us did happen where the tide ebbed and flowed infra
corpus comitatus,' and that the court has jurisdiction to decree upon
the claim of the libellant for damages.
Before leaving this point, however, we desire to say that the ninth
section of the Judiciary Act coontenances all the conclusions which
have been announced in this opinion. We look upon it as legislative action contemporary with the first being. of the constitution,
expressive of the opinion of some of its framdrs, that the grant of
admiralty jurisdiction was to be interpreted by the courts in accordance with the acknowledged principles of general admiralty law.
In that section the distinction is made between high seas and waters
which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons
burden. Admiralty jurisdiction is given upon both, and though the
latter is confined by the language to cases of seizure, it is so with
the understanding that such cases were strictly of themselves within
the admiralty jurisdiction. It declares that issues of fact- in civil
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction shall not be tried by a
j uy, and makes so clear an assignment to the 6ourts of jurisdiction
in b'timinal, admiralty, and common law suits, that the two last cannot be,,so confounded as to place both of them under the seventh
amendment of the constitution, which is, In suits at common
law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the
right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury
shall be 'otherwise r6examined, in any court of the United States,
than according to the rules of the common law."
As to the merits of this case, as they.are disclosed by the evidence, we think that the Luda was run down, whilst she was in the
accustomed channel of upward navigation, by the De Soto, being

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

465

Waring~et al. v. Clarke.

out of that for which she should have been steered to make the port
to which she was bound. It is a fault which makes -the defendants
answerable for the losses sustained from the collision. That loss
will not be more than compensated by the decree of the Circuit
Court. We shall direct the decree to be affirmed.
There is a point in thts" case still untouched by us, which we will
now decide. The libellants claim a recovery, independently of all
the other evidence in the case, upon the single fact disclosed by it,
that the collision happened whilst the De Soto was navigating the
river at night without such signal lights as are required by the tenth
section of the act of the 7th of July, 1838 (5 Stat. at Large, 304).
It is entitled, "An act to provide for the better security of the lives
of passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole or part .by
steam." The tenth section of it declares, - "It shall be the dUty
of the master and owner of every steamboat, running between sunset
and sunrise, to carry one or more signal lights, that may be seen by
other boats navigating the same waters, under the penalty of two
hundred dollars." This section, and the other provisions of the act,
except as it has been changed by the act of 1843 (5 Stat. at Large,
626), apply to all steamers, whatever waters they may bd navigated
upon, within the Uanited States or upon the coast of the same, between any of its ports. Signad lights at night are a proper precau
tion conducing to the safety of persons and property. The neglect
of it, or of any other requirement of the statute, subjects the masters and owners of steamboats to a penalty of two hundred dollars,
which maybe recovered by suit or indictment (ยง 11). But, besides the penalty, if such neglect or disobedience of the law shall
be proved to exist when injury shall occur to persons or property, it
would throw upon the master and owner of a steamboat by whom
the law has been disregarded the burden of proof,. to show that the
injury done was not the consequence of it.
It is said, in this case, that the De Soto had not signal lights.
Whether this be so or not, we do not determine ; but it is certain,
from some cause or other, that they were not seen by those navigating the Luda. If they had been, it is not improbable that the
collision would have been avoided. We do not put our decision of
this case, however, upon this ground, but we do say, if a collision
occurs between steamers at night, and one of them has not signal
lights, she will be held responsible for all losses until it is proved
that the" collision was not the consequence of it.
The act of July 7th, 1838, in all its provisions, is obligatory
upon the owners and masters of steamers navigating the waters of
the United States, whether navigating on waters within a State or
between States, or waters running from dne State into another
State, or on the coast of the United States between the ports of
the same State or different States.

466

SiPREME

COURT"

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

Mr. Justice CATRON.
The question here is, how far the judicial powers of the District
Courts extend in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as
conferred by the constitution. With cases of prize, and cases
growing out of the revenue laws, we have no concern at present.
These 'depend on the general power conferred on the judiciary to
try all cases arising under the laws of the United States. It isonly with the extent of powers possessed by the District Courts,
acting as instance courts of admiralty, we are dealing. The act of
1789' gives the entire constitutional power to determine "all civil
cadfses of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," leaving the courts to
ascertain its limits, as cases may arise. And the precise case here
is, whether jurisdiction exists to try a case of collision taking place
on, the Mississippi river, on fresh water slightly influenced by the
pressure of tide from the ocean, but ivithin the body of the State
of Louisiana, and between vessels propelled by. steam, and navigating that river only. It is an extreme case ; still, its decision
either way must govern all otheis taking place in the bays, harbours,
inlets, and riVers of the Unifed States where the tide flows ; as the
rule is, that Iccality gives jurisdiction in cases of collision, and that
it exists if the influence of the tide is at all felt (2 Browne's Civil
and Admiralty Law, 110; 7 Peters, 343). Where this collision
occurred, the influence of the tide was felt.
We have, then', presedted, simply and broadly, the question
whether the District Courts, when acting as instance courts of
admiralty, have power to try any case. of collision occurring in the
body of a county of any State.
In Great Britain, in 1776, when our separation from that country
took place, the common law courts issued writs of prohibition to the
Court .of Admiralty, restraining the exercise of this' jurisdiction in
cases of collision taking place on rivers 'within the flow of tide,
and within the body of an English county ; but the admiralty has
continued at times to exercise the jurisdiction, nor do I think the
validity of such a decree could be called in- question, because of the
want of power. In the British colonies 6n this- continent, and
elsewvhere, the jurisdiction to proceed in rem (in such a case) has
been undisputed, so far as I can ascertain, and a cause of collision
in the instance court of admiralty is peculiarly'a suit in 'ein, commencing with the arrest of the shipJ Abbott on .Shipping, 233.
I agree with my dissenting brethren, that the consti tution of the
United States is an instrument and plan of 'government fbunded in
the common law, and that to common.law terms tand principles we
must refer for a true understanding of it, as a .general rule having
few exceptions ; and so, also, to the common law modes of proceeding.in the exercise of the judicial power we must refer as a
general rule covering the whole ground of remedial justice to' be
administered by the national courts.' To this there, are two promi-

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

467

Waring et al. v. Clarke.-

nent exceptions ; first, the trial of cases in equity ; and, secondly,
of cases of admiralty and maritime ju1lsdiction. These may be
tried according to the forms of the English chandery court, or the
English admiralty court, and. without the intervention of. a jury.In chancery, the true limit of judicial power is preseribed by the
The equity powers
sixteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
begin where the common law powers end, in affording an adequate
remedy. So, in cases arising in bodies of counties (where the
common law prevails) that would be cognizable in the admiralty
had the cause of action arisen on the ocean, the English rule has
been equally stringent in maintaining the common law remedies
where they could afford plain and adequate'relief. And I hink the
case before us must be tested by the foregoing principles. The
proceeding is against the vessel, which the decree condemns ; -the
case is the same as on a bottomry bond enforced against the vessel,
or of a mortgage enforced in chancery. Iii neither case have the
common law courts any power to afford relief, by enforcing the lien
on the thing - still, the remedy at law, in case of the mortgage

or the collision, is open to the injured party to proceed against the
person ; that is, of the debtor in the one case, and against the trespasser in the other. By the maritime law, the vessel doing the
injury is liable in rem for the tort ; this is the right, and the remedy
must be found somewhere. Chancery has no power to interfere,
nor have the common law courts any power to seize the vessel and
condemn her ; and it seems to me to be a strange dnomaly, that
where no other court Can afford the particular relief, in a case 'confessedly within the admiralty jurisdiction if occurrmig.on the. ocean,
that the power did not exi't because the trespass tPok place in the
body of a State and county.
I have thus briefly stated my reasons for sustaining admiralty jurisdiction in this instance, because of the divided opinions of the
judges on the question; and because I do not intend to be committed to any views beyond those arising on the precise case before
the court. I therefore concur that the jurisdiction exists. The
-facts in my judgment authorize the affirmance of the decree
below.
WOODBURY, J., dissenting.
It is important to notice in the outset some unusual features in
this case. The Supreme Court is balled. upon to try the facts as
well as the law in it, and to decide them between parties in interest
who belong to the same .State, and as to a transaction which happened, not on the high seas, as is usaal in torts under "admiralty
jurisdiction, but two hundred miles above the mouth of the Mississippi river, within the limits of a coi-ity, and in the heart of the
State of Louisiana. A question of jurisdiction, therefore, arisesin

this, which is very important, and must first be disposed of.

It

468

SUPREME COURT.
Waring'et al. v. Clarke.

involves the trial by jury as to trespasses of every kind happening
between the ocean and the head of tide-waters in all -tlie numerous
rivers of the United States, as well as the rights of the citizens near
them, in such disputes with their neighbours, to be tried by their
own local tribunals and their own laws, rather than be subject to th.
great inconvenience and expense of coming hither, at such a distance,
and under a different code to vindicate their just claims. These
interesting considerations in the case, and my differing in opinion
on them from the majority of the court, will, it is hoped, prove a
sufficient apology for justifying that difference in some detail.
A. great principle at the foundation of our political system applies strongly to the pi'esent case, and is, that, while supporting all
the powers clearly granted to the general government, we ought to
forbear interfering with what has been reserved to the States, and,
in cases of doubt, to follow where that principle leads, unless prevented by the overruling authority of high judicial decisions. So,
under the influence of kindred considerations, in case of supposed
improvements or increased convenience by changes of the law, it is'
an imperative duty on us to let them be made by representatives
of the people and the States, through acts of Congress, rather than
by judicial legislation. Paine's C. C. 75. Starting with these
views, then, what is the character of the adjudged cases on the facts
here to which they are to be applied ? Those to b, found on the subject of torts through the collision of
vessels are mostly of English origin, coming from a nation which is
not only the source of much of our own jurisprudence, but entitled
by her vast commerce to great respect in all matters of maritime
usage and admiralty law. No principle appears to be better settled there than that the court of admiralty has not jurisdiction over
torts, whether*to person or property, unless committed on the high
seas, and out of the limits of a county.

3 Bl. Com. 106 ; 4

Instit. 134; Doug. R. 13; 2 East's Crown Law, 803; Bac.
Abr., Courts of .Bdmiralty, A ; 5 Rob. Ad. 345 ; Fitzh. Abr.
192, 416 ; 2 Dod. 83 ; 4 Rob. Ad. 60, 73 ; 2 Browne's Civ. and

Ad. Law, 110, 204 ; 2 Hag. Ad. 398;'3 D. & E.,315; 3 Hag.
Ad. 283, 369 ; 4 Instit. 136; Chamberlain et al. v. Chandler, 3 Mason's C. C. 244. This is not a doctrine which has grown up there
since the adoption of our constitution, nor one obsolete and lost
in the mist of antiquity ; but it is laid down in two acts of Parliament as early as the fourteenth century, and has been adhered to
uniformly since, except where modified Within a few years by express statutes. The Public Opinion, 2 Hag. Ad. 398 ; 6 Dane's
Abr. 341.

The first of these acts, the thirteenth of Richard II., declared
that the admiralty must "not meddle henceforth of any thing done
within the realm, but only of a thing done upon the sea." 3 Hag.
Ad. 282 ; 1 Statutes at Large, 419.

Then, in two years after,

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

469

Waring et al. v. Clarke.
to remove any doubts as to what was meant by. the realm and the
sea, came the fifteenth of Richard II., ordering, that of "things
done withih the bodies of counties, by land or water, the admirals
shall have no cognizance, but they shall be tried by the law of the
land." 2 Pickering's Statutes, 841. This gave to the common law
courts there, and forbade to the admiralty, the trial of all collisions
between vessels when not on the high seas, and not out of the body
of a county, though on waters navigable and salt, and where strong
tides ebbed and flowed. 2 Hag. Ad. 398 ; Selden on Dominion
of the Sea, B. 2, ch. 14. And it did this originally, and continued
to do it, not only down to the eighteenth century, but to our Revolution, and long since ; because it was necessary to secure the
highly prized trial by jury, rather than by. a single judge, for every
thing happening where a jury could be had from the vicinage of the
occurrence within a county, and because it secured a decision on
their rights by the highly prized common law, inherited from their
fathers, and with which they were familiar, rather than by the civil
law or any other foreign code, attempted to be forced upon the
commons and barons by Norman conquerors or their partisans.
Among the cases in point as to this, both long before and since
our Revolution, one of them, Velthasen v. Ormsley, 3 D. & E.
315, happened in A. D. 1789, the very year the constitution was
adopted. See also Violet v. Blague, Cro. Jac. 514; 2 Hag.
Ad. 398 ; 4 Instit. 134-138 ; 6 Dane's Abr. 341, Prohibition.
And one of the most strenuous advocates for admiralty jurisdiction
in Great Britain admits, that for damages d6ne by the collision of
ships, "if done at sea, remedy can be had in the admiralty, but not
if it happen within the body of a county." 2 Brownes Civ. and
Ad. LaTยฃ, I111.
Since then, on his complaint, an express statute has been passed;
1 and.2 George IV., ch. 75, ยง 32, that any damage done by a
foreign ship, "in any harbour, port, river, or creek," may be
prosecuted either in admiralty or common law courts. The Christiana; 2 Hag. Ad. 184 ; 38 British. Statutes, ch. 274. And, later
still, a like change is considered by some to be made concerniug
injuries by domestic ships, under the 4 and 5 Victoria, ch. 45.
See it in the Statutes at Large. But till these statutes,, not a case
of this kind can probably be found sustained in admiralty, even on
the river Thames, at any place within the body of a county, though
.yearly covered with a large portion of the navigation of the world.
See cases before cited, and 1 Dod. Ad. 468 ; 1 Win. Rob. 47,
131,182, >16, 371, 391, 474 ; Curtis's Admiralty, tit. Collision.
Nor is this a peculiarity in the admiralty system of that country
confined to torts alone. But the same rule prevails as to crimes,
and has always been adhered to, with a single exception, originally
made in the statute itself of Richard, as to murder and mayhem
committed in g eat vessels in the-great rive, s below the first bridges.
VOL.

V.

40

470

SUPREME' COURT.
Waring. -et al. v. Clarke.

Corn. Dig. .dmiralty, E, 5, note; Hale's History of Common
Law, 35; 3 Rob. Ad. 336; 4 Inst. 148; 1 Hawk. P. C., oh.

87, ยง 36 ; Palmer?s Practice in House of Lords, 371, note.

The next inquiry is, if this distinction, confining the jurisdiction
in admiralty over torts to such as happen on the high seas without
the limits of a county, rested on such important principles as to be
adopted in this country ? Some seem disposed to believe it of so
little consequence as hardly to have been worth attention. But
this is a great mistake. The controversy was not in England, and
is not here, a mere struggle between salt and fresh water,- sea and
lake, - tide and ordinary current, - within a county and without,
- as a technical matter only.
But there are imbedded beneath the surface three great questions
of principle in connection with these topics, which possess the
gravest constitutional character. And they can hardly be regarded
as 6f little consequence here, and assuredly not less than they possessed abroad, where they involve, (1.},the abolition of the trial
by jury over large tracts of country, (2.) the substitution there of
the civil law and its forms for the common law and statutes of the
States, (3.) and the encroachment widely on the jurisdiction of the
tribunals of the State over disputes happening there between its
own citizens.
Without intending to enter with any minuteness into the origin
and history of admiralty jurisdiction abroad, it will be sifficient, in
order to illustrate the vital im'portance of this question of locality, to
say that the trial by jury and the common law, so ardently adhered
to by the Anglo-Saxon's, was- soon encroached on after the Conquest by the Norman admirals claiming jurisdiction 'over certain
maritime matters, not only on the ocean, and trying them without a
jury, and on principles of their favorite civil law, but on the waters
within the body of a county, and where a jury'could easily be summoned, and where the principles of the common law had ever in
England. been accustomed to ptevhil. A struggle therefore, of
course, soon sprung up in respect to this, as their 'monarchs had
begun to organize an admiral's court within a century after the Conquest, but without any act of Parliament now found to vindicate it.
See the Statutes at Large, and 3 Reeves's History of the English
Law, 197. And laying down some regulations as to its powers
by ordinances, as at Hastings, under Edward the First, but not
by any acts of Parliament consulting the wishes of the barons and
the commons. Whether this-was constitutional or not, it was sufficient to make them look on the.. admiralty as a foreign and odious
interloper. Reeves says (3 Reeves's Hist. of English Law, 137),"The office of admiral is considered by the French as a piece of
state invented by them."
And whether it was imported thence by
the conquerors, or originated with the Rhodians, or Romans, or
Sitracens, rather than the French or English, its principles seem to

JANUARY

TERM,

1847.

471

Waring e t al. v. Clarke.

have been transplanted to Western Europe from the Mediterranean,
the cradle of commerce for all but the Asiatic world ; and it was
regarded by the commons and barons of England as an intruder into
that realm, and without the sanction of Parliament.
In the course of a few years, that same sturdy spirit, which in
Magna Charta was unwilling to let the laws of England be changed
for a foreign code, proceeded, by the 13th and 15th of'Richard II.,
to denounce and forbid the encroachments of the admirals, and
their new forms and code of the civil law, into the bodies of counties and the local business of the realm. It produced those two
memorable acts of Parliament, never since departed from in torts or
crimes except under express statutes, and fixing the limit of jurisdiction for them at the line between the counties and the high seas.
And they have ever since retained it there, except as above named,
from the highest principles of safety to the common law, English
liberties, and the inestimable trial by jury,- principles surely no
less dear in a republic than a monarchy.
If the power of the admiral was permitted to act beyond that line,
it was manifestly without the apology which existed thus far on the
ocean, of there being no jury to be called from the vicinage to try
the case. Prynne's Animadversiong, 92, 93 ; Fitzh. Abr. 192, 216.
And if the act, by an alias and a fiction, was alleged to be done in
the county, when in fact it happened at a distance, on the seas, the
jury would- be less useful, not in truth residing near the place of the
occurrence, not acquaint-i with the parties or witnesses, and the
case itself not being one happening where the common law usually
operated, and with which the people and the judges were familiar.
This last circumstance furnished another reason why the admiralty court was allowed there, arid should be here, to continue to
exercise 'some jurisdiction, beside their. militdry and naval power,
over the oonduct of seamen and the business of navigation when
foreign. Because such matters were connected with the ocean,
with foreign intercourseforeign laws, and foreign people, and it was
desirable to have the law as to them uniform, and administered by
those possessing some .practical acquaintance with such subjects ;
they being, in shcrt, matters extra-territorial, international, and
peculiar in some degree to the great highway of nations. It is
when thus confined to that great highway and its concerns, that
admiralty law deserves the just tribute sometimes paid to it of expansive wisdomand elevated equity.* Then only there is an excellence in such regulations as to navigation over those for rights
and duties on land ; the last being often more for a single people,
and their limited territory, while the former ate on most matters
more expanded, more liberal, - the gathered wisdom of and for
* And the vice-admiral is hence quaintly called "the justice of the peace for
the sea," by Sir Leoline Jenkins; but *ho ever supposed him the justice of the
peace two hundred miles inwrd froi the sei?

47!

SUPREME COURT6
Waring .et al. v. Clarke.

all maritime ages and nations. They are also what has been approved by all rather than a few, and for. the territory of all in common. And hence that beautiful tribute paid to them by Antoninus,
and just as beautiful, that be Was "lord of the world, but Law
the lord of the sea." 2 Browne's Civ. and Ad. Law, 38.
The sea being common to all nations, its police and the rights and
duties on it should be governed mainly by one code, known to all,
and worthy to be respected and enforced by all. This, it will be
seen, indicates in letters of strong light the very line of boundary
which we have been attemptingto draw, on grounds of deep prinqiple, here as well as in England. It is the line between State
territory abd State laws on the one band, and the ocean, the territory of all nations, and the laws of all nations, the admialty and
sea laws of all nations, on the other hand, leaving with those, for instance, residing within local jurisdictions, and doing business there,
the local laws and local tribunals, but with those whose home and
busine.,s are on the ocean the forms and laws and tribunals which
are more familiar to them. This line being thus a certain and fixed
one, and resting on sound principles, has in England withstood the
shock of ages. It is true, that some modifications have been recently made there, but only by express, statutes, and carefully
guarded" so as not to innovate on the common law and the trial by
jury. That this line of distinction was in fact appreciated quite as
highly here as in England is shown by various circumstances that
need not be repeated ; but among them were solemn resolutions of
the old Congress against acts concerning trade and revenue, extending the power of admiralty courts beyond their ancient limits,
and thus taking away the trial by jury. I Journal, 19, 20. And as
a striking evidence of the dangerous importance ittached to this
outrage, it was 'remarked in the convention of North Carolina, that
"the Stamp Act and the taking away of the trial by jury were the
principal causes of resistance to Great Britain." '4Elliot's Deb.
157. Indeed, this same jealousy of the civil law, and its mode of
proceeding without a jury, led, in the first legislation by Congress, to
forbid going into chancery at all, if relief at law is as ample and
appropriate. See sixteenth section of Judiciary Act, 1 Statutes
at Large, 83. So as to admiralty, -a statute of Pennsylvania,passed during the Revolution, allowed it only in cases " not cognizable at common law." I Dall. 106. And our fathers never could
have meant, that parties, for matters happening withi a county or
State, should be dragged into admiralty any more than equity, if as
full a remedy, and of as good a. kind, existed in courts of law,
where they could enjoy their favorite code and mode of trial. I
Bald. C. C. 405. This would leave much to admiralty still, as
well as to equity, and more especially in the former, by proceedings
in rem. And when it became convenient to vest additional power
in the same court, or power over a wider range of territory, as it

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

473

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

might in the progreis of society and business, it could be done here
by express statute, as it has been in respect to the Lakes, ufider the
power to regulate commerce, and allowing a trial by jury if desired.
In short, instead of less, much additional importance should be
attached to this line of distinction here, beyond what exists in
England; because it involves here not only all the important consequences it does there, but some which are new and peculiar.
Instead of being, as it once was there' a contest between 'courts
of one and the same government, it may become here a struggle
for jurisdiction between courts of the States and courts of the
United' States, always delicate, and frequently endangering the
harmony of our political system. And while the result there, in
favor of the adiniralty, would cause no additional incpnvenience and
expense, as all the courts sit in one city, such a result here compels
the parties to travel beyond their own counties or States, and in
case of appeal to come hither, a distance sometimes of a thousand
or fifteen hundred miles.
Admitting, then, as we must, that the doctrine I have laid down
as to torts was the established law in England at our Revolution,
and was not a mere technical doctrine, but rested on great prineiples, dear to the subject .and his rights and liberties, should it not
be considered as the guide here, except where altered, if at -all,
by
our colonial laws or constitutions, or acts of Congress, or analogies
which are binding, or something in it entirely unsuitable to our condition ? The best ahthorities require that it should be. 1 Peters's

Ad. 116, 236, note ; 1 Peters's 0.C. 104, 111-114 ; I Paine's
(C. . 111 ; 2 Gall. 398, 471 ; 3 Mason, 27 ; Bemis v. The Janus etal., 1 Baldwin's C. C. 545 1 12 Wheat. 638; 1 Kent's Com.
377 ; 4 Dall. 429 ; 4 Wash. C. C. 213. Yet this is contested
inthe present case.
Some argue that the constitution, by extending the judicial power
to " all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," meant cases
different from those recognized in England as belonging to the admiralty at the Revolution, or those as modified by ourselves when
colonies. These jurists stand prominent, and their views seem
to-day adopted by a portion of this court. See the -argument in
De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gall. 398.
The authorities which I have cited against this position seem to
me overwhelming in number and strength; and some of them come
from those either engaged in making the constitution, or in construing
it in the earliest stages of its operation. Let me ask, What books
had we for admiralty law, then, as well as commpn law, - both referred to in the constitutio,-but almost exclusively Englishones?
What had the profession here been educated to administer, - English or French admiralty ? Surely the former. The judges here
were English, the colonies English, and appeals, in all cases on the
instance side of the court, lay to the English admiralty at home.
40 *

474

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al, v. Clarke.

'What "cases of admiralty," then, were most likely to be in the
minds of those who incorporated those words into the constitution ? cases in the English reports, or those in Spain, or Turkey ? cases living and daily cited and practised on both in England and
here, or those in foreign and dead languages, found in the assizes
of Jerusalem near the time of. the Crusades ?
It is inferred by some, from 6 Dane's Abr. 352, 353, that cases
in admiralty are to. be ascertained, not by English law at the Revolution, but by principles of "gederal law." And Judge Washington
held, it is said, we must go to the general maritime law of the wdrld,
and not to England -alone. Dain et al. v..Sloop Severn, 4 Hazard's
Penn. Reg. 248, in 1828. But the whole tenor of Mr. Dane's
qpotalions and reasons, in respect to admiralty jurisdiction, is to
place it on the English basis ; and Judge Washington, in several instances, took it for his guide, and commended it as the legal guide.
"But still the
In the United States v. Gill, 4 Dall. 429, he says : "question "recurs, Is this a case of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
within the meaning of the constitution ? The words of the constitution must be taken to refer to the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of England, from whose code and practice we derived our systems of jurisprudence,, and, generaily speaking, obtain the bqt
glossary."
See also 4 Wash. 456, 457.
Neither of these eminent jurists was ever likely to go to the laws
of Continental Europe as guides, unless in cases not well settled
either here or in England, and' then, as in the common law courts
and in chancery, they might pr'operly search all enlightened systems
of jurisprudence for suggestions and principles to aid. Chaneellqr
Kent, also, with his accustomed modesty, yet with clearness, supporting a like doctrine with that just quoted from Judge Washington, observes, - ,,But I ipprehend it may fairly be doubted,
whether the corstitution of the United States meant, by admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, any thing more than that jurisdiction which
was settled and in practice in this country under the English jurisprudence when the constitution was made." 1 Kent's Com. 377.
Another strong proof that this was the opinion prevailing here at
thit time is, that a court of admiralty was established in Virginia, in
1779, under the recommendation of Congress to all the States to
make prize courts ; and, by the -act of Assembly, it is expressly provided tha: they are to be "governed in their proceedings and
decisions by the regulations of the Congress of the United States
of America, by the acts of the General Assembly, by the laws of
Oleron, and the Rhodian and Imperial laws, so far as they have
been heretofore observed in the English courts of admiralty, and
by the laws of nature and nations." 10 Hening's Stat. 98. They
thus, after our own laws, State and national, made England the guide.
It -is said by others, appealing to feelings of national pride, that
we are to look to our own constitkition and laws, and not to Eng-

JANUAI Y TERM; 1847.

4%

Waring et lal.v. Clarke.

land, for a guide. So we do look to our own laws and constitution
first, and when they are silent-go elsewhere. Bu; what are our own
laws and constitution, unless those in England before our Revolution,
except so far as altered here, either before, or then, or since, and ex4,
cept such in England then as were not applicable to our condition
and form of government ? This was the guide adopted by this
court in its practice as early as August 8th, -1791 (1 Howard, 24),
and as late as January, 1842, it treated the practice in England as
the rule in equity, where not otherwise directed ; and in Gaines
e'tal. v. Relf et al., 15 Peters, 9, it decided that when our own
"rules do not apply, the practice of the Circuit and District
Courts'must be regulated.by the practice of the court of chancery
in England."
See, also, Vattier v. Hinde, 7 Peters, 274. And
most of its forms and rules in admiralty have been adopted in our
District and Circuit Courts. See Rule XC., in 1 How. 66, Pref
And this court has again and again disposed of important admiralty
questions, looking to England alone, rather than the Continent, as a
guide when they differed.
Thus the Continental law would carry admiralty jurisdiction over
all navigable streams. Yet this court has deliberately refused to do
it, in.The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428. Had it not so refused, in repeated instances, there would have been no necessity for
the recent act of Congress as to the Lakes and their tributaries. So,
โขthe civil law gives a lien for repairs of domestic ships ; but this
court has not felt justified in doing it without a statute, because not
done in England. 7 Peters, 324. And in Hobartv. Drogan et al.,
10 Peters, 122, this court felt bound to follow the English decisions as to salvage, though in some respects harsh. See, also, 3
Howard, 568.
So, when the constitution and the acts of Congress speak, as they
do in several instances, of the "1common law," do they not 'mean
the English common law ? This court so decided in Robinson v.
-Campbell, 3 Wheat. 223, adhering, it said, "1to the principles of
common law and equity, as distinguished and defined in that country, from which we derive our knowledge of those principles."
Why not, then, mean the English admiralty law when they speak
of "1 cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction" ? They of
course must, by all analogous decisions and by established usage, as
well as by the opinions of eminent jurists. The English decisions furnish, also, the most natural, appropriate,, uniform, and wellknown principles, both for action and .judicial decision.
It would be extraordinary, indeed, for this court t6 undertake to
exercise a legislative power as to this point, and without warrant to
,search the world over and select, for the trial of private rights, any
law they may prefer. On the contrary, its duty rather is to declare
the law which has already become ours, which we inherited from
'our ancestors or have enacted ourselves, and which is not vagrant

476

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. r. Clarke.

and uncertain, but to be found in our own judicial history and instiiutions, our own constitution, acts of Congress, and binding precedents. Congress also might, in many instances, perhaps, make the
law better than it is, and mould it so as to meet new exigencies in society, and suit different stages of business and civilization ; and, by
new laws as to navigable waters, judicial tribunals, and various other
matters, is yearly doing this. But does this court possess that legislative power ? And if Congress chooses to give additional jurisdiction to the District Court on the Lakes, or tide-waters, or navigable streams between them, and allow jury trials when desired,
under its power to regulate commerce and collect a revenue, will
this not answer every valuable purpose, and supply any new want or
fancied improvement in a more satisfactory and more constitutional
manner than for courts to do it without consulting Congress ?
That Congress possess the power to do this cannot be plausibly
questioned. The late law as to jurisdiction over the Lakes, vhich
is given to the District Court, but not aยง an admiralty case under
the constitution, and with a jury when desired, is a strong illustration of legislative opinion being the way we contend.
Any expansion or enlargement can be thus made, and by withdrawing in part the jurisdiction now conferred on the District
Courts in any matters in admiralty, Congress can also abridge the
exercise of it as experience and time may show to be wise. For
this reason, we are unable to see the force of the argument just offe,'ed by four members of this court, that if the English admiralty
law was referred to in the expression of ",all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction," no change in it could be made, without being
at the trouble and expense of altering the constitution.
But in further answer to this, let me ask if the constitution, as
they contend, was meant to include cases in admiralty as on the
Continent of Europe rather than in England, could the law as to
them be more easily altered than if it was only the law of England ?
And would it not take the interpretation of the admiralty law as
much from the courts in one case as in the other ?
It is conceded, next, that legislation has, in some respects, in
England, since 1789, changed and improved her admiralty proceed,ngs ; but this only furnishes additional evidence that the law was
different when our constitution was framed, and that these .changes,
when useful and made at all, should be made by legislation and not
by judicial construction, and they can rightfully have no force here till
so made. United States v. Paul, 6'Peters, 141. The difference,
-too, between a change by Congress and by this court alone is, furtliermore, that the former, when making it, can and doubtless will
allow a trial by jury, while we are unable to do this, if we make the
change by construing the case to be one legitimately of admiralty
jurisdiction.
Finally, then, the law, as it existed in England at the time of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

477

Waring et al. i. Clarke.

Itevolution, as to admiralty jurisdiction over torts, is the only certiii.
and safe guide, unless it has been. clearly changed in this respect; either by the constitution, or acts of Congress, or some colonial authority. We have already seen that the constitutian has not used words
which are fairly open:to the idea that any such change was intended.
Nor has it made any alteration in terms as to torts. And no act of
Congress has introduced any change in respect to torts, having in this
respect merely conferred on the District Courts cognizance of" all
civil cases " in admiralty, without in a single instance defining what
shall be such cases in connection with torts. The next inquiry,
then, is, whether the colonies changed the law as to the locality of
torts, and exercised jurisdiction 6ver them inadmiralty, though'committed within a county and not on the high seas.
I am compelled to go into these details more than would otherwise be done, considering their tediousness, on account of the griat
reliance on them in one of the opinions just read. In 6rder to operate on the point under consideration, it will be seen that any colonial change must have been so clear and universal as to have been
referred to in the constitution and the act of Congress of 1789, and
to be the meaning intended by their makers to be embraced in the
expression of "c ases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,' .
rather than the meaning that had usually been attached to them by
the English language and the judicial tribunals of England, for centuries. And this' change, likewise, must have been clearly meant
to be referred to and adopted, notwithstanding its great encroachment in torts on the boasted trial by jury, and which encroachment
they were denouncing as tyranny in other cases, and notwithstanding
its natural consequences viould be new collisions with the powers
of the State tribunals, which they were most anxious to avoid. I
have searched in vain to find acts of assembly in afiy of the thirteen
colonies, before 1776, making such a change, much less in a majority or all of them. Nor can I find. any such judicial decisions by
vice-admiralty courts in any of-them, much less in all. Nor is it
pret-nded that any acts of Parliament or judgments in the courts in
England had prescribed a different rule in torts for the colonies
from what prevailed at home.
It would be difficult, then, to show that a law had become changed
in any free country, except by evidence contained in its legislation,
or constitutions, or judicial decisions. But some persons, and
among them a portion of this bench, have referred to commissions
of office to vice-admirals as evidence of a change here ; and some,
it is feared, have been misled by them. 1 Kent's Com. 367, note;
2 Gall. 373.
These-commissions, in the largest view, only indicated what might
be done, not what was actually afterwards done under them. In
the next place, all must see, on reflection, that a commission issued
by the king could not repeal or alter the established laws of the land.

478

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. r.

Clarke.

Beside the forms of some 'of these commissions, referred to in
De Lovio v. Boit (2 Gall. 398), an entire copy of one of them is
inStokes, and another in Dauonceau on Jurisdiction, p. 158, and
inWoodcock's Laws of the British Colonies, p. 66. It will be
seen that they are much alike, and though there are expressions in
them broad enough to cover' all " fresh waters " and rivers," and
even "I banks of any of the same" (Woodeock, 69), yet tidewaters are never named as the limit of jurisdiction ; and, over and
paramount to the whole, the judge is required to kee- and cause to
be executed there "1the rights, statutes, laws, ordinances, and customs anciently observed." Where anciently observed ? In England, of course; and thus, of course, were to comply with the English
statutes and decisions as to admiralty matters.
This limitation is inserted several times, from abundant caution, in
the commission in Woodcock, 66, 67, 69.
But beside these conflicting features in different parts of them, the
commissions of vice-admirals here seem, ii, most respects, copies of
mere forms of ancient date in England (Woodcock's Brit. Col.
123), and, of course, were never intended to be used in the colonies
as alterations of 4the laws, and were, as all know, void and obsolete
in England when differing from positive statutes. So virtually ft
was held in the colonies themselves. The Little Joe, Stewart's
Ad. R. 405; and The ApollQ, 1 Hag. Ad. 312; Woodcock's
Laws and Const. of the ColonieS, 123. These commissions, also,
if- they prove any thing here actually done different from the laws
in England, except what was made different by express statute, as to
matters connected with breaches of the laws of revenue and trade,
and not as to torts, prove quite too much, as they go above tidewater and even on the land.
But it is not believed that they led to any practices under them
here different from the laws at home in respect to torts. None can
now be found stated, either in reports of cases or contemporaneous
history' Probably in the colonies the same rules- as at home prevailed on this, for another reason ; because no statute was passed
as to torts here, and appeals to the admiralty at home existed, on
the instance side of the court, till a recent change, so ad to preserve
uniformity in the colonies and at home. Bains v. 'The James,
Baldw. 549 ; -Woodcock, 242. A case of one of those appeals is
reported in 2 Rob. 248, 249, The Fabius. There the enlarged
powers conferred on vice-admiralty-courts by the 6 and 7 of William
III., as to seizures and prosecutions for breaches -of the laws of
trade nd revenue, are not, as I understand the case, considered admiralty powers, and we all know they were not so per se or proprio
vigore. A looser practice in the colonies, but no difference of
pciple, except under statute, appears to have been tolerated.
oodeock's Laws, &c., 273.
In accordance with this, -Tucker, in his Appepdix to Part I.,

j"

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

479

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

of 1 Black.* Com. 432, after a careful examination of charters
and other documents, comes to the conclusion, that, the laws at
home before emigration, both statute and common law, so far' as applicable to the condition of the colonies, and in favor of life, liber4,
and property 'of the -subject, " remained in full force therein until
repealed, altered, or amended by the legislative authority of the colonies respectively, or"by the constitutional acts of the same when
they became sovereign and independent states." See, also, to
this effect, Montgomery v. Henry, 1 Dall. 49 ; 1 Chalmers's
Op. 195 ; Woodc9ck, 156. But what seems to settle this inquiry
is the treatise of a colonial judge, giving some data on this very subject,, and of course well informed on the subject. Stokes's View of
Constitution of British Colonies (p. 270) contains ar account of
the admiralty jurisdiction in the colonies before the Revolution.
Two things are clearly- to. be inferred from him :- 1st. That
admiralty and maritime cases extended only to matters " arising on
the high seas"; and, 2d. That the practice and rules of decision in
admiralty were the same here as in England.
, Thus, in chapter 13, page 271, lhe says :-'--"In the first place,
as to the jurisdiction exercised in: the court of vice-admiralty
in the colonie5, in deciding all -maritime caunses, or causes arising
on the high seas, I hive only to observe, that it proceeds in the
same mainer that the High Court of Admiralty in England- does'.'
" The only book that I have met with, which treats of the
practice of the .High, Court of Admiralty in England, is Clarke's
Praxis Admiralitatis, and this is the book used by the practitioners
in the colonies." *
In connection with this, all the admiralty reports we have of cases
before the Revolution, and of cases between 1776 and 1789, seem
to corroborate the same view, and are worth more to show the
actual jurisdiction here than hundreds of old commissions containing
obsolete powers never enforced. There is a manuscript volume
of Aticmty's decisions made in the vice-admirahy court in Massachusetts, about 1740. (See Curtis's Merchadit Seamen, 348,
note). It will be difficult to find in them, even in one colony, much
more- in the thirteen, clear evidence of any change here, before
the Revolution, in respect to the law concerning the locality of
torts.
The very first case of Quitteville v. Woodbury, April 15, 1740,
is a libel for a trespass. But it is carefully averred to have taken
place1 at the Bay of Hondurus; upon the open sea, on board the
ship King George.",
* Woodcock on the British Colonies is equally explicit, that the vice-admiralty
courts in the colonies were catlld so because in fact subordinate to the admiralty
at home, and with like jurisdiction, except where altered by positive statute.
Thus, Speaking of" the jurisdiction of the admiralty over subjects of maritime contract," he says,-(, With respect to this authority it may oe only necessary to observe, that in such matters the admiralty court in the colmies holds plea agreeably
to the course of the same court in England." (p. 272),

480

SUPREME COURT.
Wftring et al. v. Clarke.

-No- other case of tort is printed, and on a careful examination of
what has not been printed no case is found varying the principle. There is one for conversion rofa vessel and cargo, July
30th, 1742, tried before George Cradock, deputy judge in admiralty, Farrington v. Dennis. But the conversion happened on the
high seas, or what in those days was often termed the " deep sea."
So a decision in the State of Delaware, in 1788, reported in the
Introduction to 4 Dali. 2 (last edit.); the judge seems to concede
it to be law in that colony, that all cases, except prize ones, must
happen " on the high seas" in order to give the admiralty jurisdiction over them.
So a: few cases before the adoption of the constitution are re-.
ported in Bee's Admiralty Decisions, though they are mostly on
contracts. But they all make a merit of conforming to the course
in the English admiralty, rather than exhibiting departures from and
enlargements of its jurisdiction. See one in A. D. 1781, Bee's
Adm. 425, and, another in the same year (p. 419), and another in
1785 (p. 369). But the most decisive of all is a case in A. D.
1780, in the ligh Court of Appeals in Pennsylvania, Montgomery v.
Henry et al., 1 DalI. 49.
It was a proceeding in admiralty, regarded by some as sounding
in tort, and by some in contract ; but as to the line of jurisdiction,
this having happened, as averred, on the river Delaware, the
court say, through Reed, their president, -- " But it appears to us,
that from the 13th and 15th Richard II. the admiralty has had
jurisdiction on all waters out of the body of the county. There
has been great debate as to what is meant by high seas. A road,
haven, or even river, no within the body of the county, is high sea
in the'idea of civilians. Therefore, if the river Delaware is- out of
the body of any county, we think it clear that it is within the admiralty jurisdiction."
In short, as to this matter the first principles of English jurisprudence, ns applicable to her colonies, show that there could be no
difference here on a matter of this kind, unless authorized by express statute at home, extending to the colonies, or by acts of assembly here, expressly sanctioned~at -home.
Blackstone says, -"
For it hath been held, that if an uninhabited country be discovered and planted by English subjects, all
the English laws then in being, which are the birthright of every
subject, are immediately there in force." I Bl. Com. 108 ; 2 P.
Wis. 75. Exceptiops of course exist as to matters not a plicable
to their condition, but hone of them reach Ihis case,- and require
consideration.
Were not we then British colonies, and beginning here in an
uninhabited country, or, what is equivalent, tenanted by a people not
having any civilized laws ? Why, then, were not the principles of
English admiralty law in force here in the vice-admiralty courts, as

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

481

Waring et a]. v. Clarke.

much as the English common law in other courts, - and which has
been declared by this tribunal to have been the basis of the jurisprudence of all the States iii 1789 ? 3 Peters, 444. Indeed, any
laws in the plantations contrary to or repugnant to English laws
were held to be void, if not allowed by Parliament at honme. . 3
BI. Com. 109, App. 380, by Tucker.
What is left, then, for the idea to rest on of a change in respect
to the locality of torts here, to give admiralty courts jurisdiction
over them different from what existed in England in 1776 ? We
have already seen that there is nothing in the constitution, nothing
in any acts of Congress, nothing in any colonial laws, or colonial
decisions in the vice-admiralty courts. Some venture to infer it
merely from analogies.

But denying the competency for courts of

limited jurisdiction, like ours, to do this, if impairing jury trials alid
encroaching on State jurisdictions, without any express grant or authority to that effect, let me ask, what are the analogies ? The only
ones which can be imagined are cases of crimes, contracts, and
seizures for breaches of laws of revenue and trade. But the decisions as to crimes prove directly the reverse.
In respect to them, no change whatever on this pointLhas occurred, and the rule recognized in this country as the true one concerning their locality is, like that in England, if tried in admiralty as
being crimes by admiralty law, they must have been committed
without the limits of a county or State. 4 Mason, C. C. 308 ; 5
ibid. "290 ; I Dall. 49 ; 3 Wheat. 336, 371 ; 5 ibid! 76, 379;
12 ibid. 623 ; 4 Wash. C. C. 375 ; Baldw. C. C. 35.
And all crimes on the waters of the United States maJe punishable in the courts of the United States, by acts of Congress, with
few or no exceptions, if connected solely with admiriilty jurisdiction,
are scrupulously required to have bben committed on the sea or the
high seas, "out of th6 jurisdiction of any particular State."
In all criminal cases in admiralty in England, the trial has also
been by jury, by an express act of Parliament, ever since the 32
Henry VIII. (Com. -Dig., Ofdmiralty), and so far from the same
principle not being considered in force here, the constitution itself,
before any amendments, expressly provided fo ail criminal trials of
every kind being by a jury. Art. 3, ยง 2, and Federalist, No. 81.
So, the old Confederation (Article 9th) authorized Congress to
provide courts for the trial "of piracies and felonies committed on
the high seas." I Laws (Bioren's edit.), p. 16. And when Congress did so, they thought it expedient to adopt the same mode of
trial for acts "on the sea" as on the land, and " according to the
course of the common law" ; and under a sort of mixed commission, as under -the 28 Henry VIII., to try these offences, consisting
of the justices of the Supreme Court in each State, united with the
admiralty judge, they imperatively required the use of a jury. 7
Jouin. of Old Cong. 55 ; Duponceau on Jurjs. 94, 95, note.
NVOL. V.
41

482

SUPREME COURT.
Waripg et al.

-

. Clarke.

Finding, then, that any analogy from crimes directly opposes, rather
than favors, any change as to torts, let us proceed to the case of contracts. It will be necessary, before they can be allowed any effect,
for their friends to show, that the locality .of contracts has been
changed here, and then that such change should operate on torts.
Contracts, in one aspect of the subject, did not differ as to their locality from torts and crimes before Richard II. any more than after.
But as the 'question in relation to the locality of contracts here
is still undecided, and is before this court awaiting another argument,
on account of divisions of opinioh among its members in respect to it;
no analogy can be drawn to govern other questions from what is itself
thus uncertain ; and it is not deemed decorous by me. to discuss
here the moot question as to contracts, or, till the other action
p ending in relation to. them is itself settled, to draw any inference
from what I may suppose to be, or not to be, their locality.
Without, then, going farther into the subfilties as to the locality or
want of locality of contracts within "admiralty jurisdiction, so fully
discussed in 2 Gallison, 475, by Judge Story, on the one hand,
and in 12 Vrheaton, 622, by Justice Johnson, on the other, as
well as in the case of the Lexington, at this term, it is enough to say,
that is not the question now under consideration. It is, at the nearest, but bollateral, and differently situated. For in trespass it was
always a test, not only that it happened on the sea, instead of merely
tide-water, but out-of the body of a county.
And above all this, those very writers who contend that locality
does not govern the jurisdiction over contracts admit that it controls, and always has controlled, the right to try both torts and
crimes (with the exceptions before named, and not influencing. this
question), during all the fluctuations and struggles about contracts
during the last four hundred years.
In the resolutions said to have been prepared by the judges in
1632, with a view to arrange differences concerning jurisdiction, no
change or modification is made as to torts. Dunlap's Prac. 13, 14;
Bevans's case, 3 Wheat. 365, note.
Nor was there any it' the mutual arrangement between the different courts in 1575. See it, in 3 Wheat. 367, note; Prynne's Animadversions, 98, 99. And in Crowell's Ordinance 'of 1648, on the
jurisdiction of the admiralty, so much relied on by those friendly to
the extension of it, and by some supposed to have been copied and
followed in 'this country, damages by one ship to another were included, but it was meant damages on the sea, being described as
"damages happening thereon, or arising at sea in any way." Dunlap's Ad. 16. '
Hence, even in admiralty writers and admiralty courts, it is laid
down repeatedly, "in torts, locality ascertains the judicial'powers."1
And again, "1in all matters of tort, locality is the strict limit." 2
Bro. Civ. and Ad, Law, 110. Soin The Eleanor, 6 Rob. Ad. 40,

JANUARY TERM, 1847.
Waring et al

483

v. Clarke.

Lord Stowell said, "the locality is every thing," msteadof holding
it to be an obsolete or immaterial form.
Lastly, in respect to analogies in seizures for breaches of the laws
'of revenue and trade, it is claimed that some change has occurred
there, which should influence the jurisdiction over torts. But these
seizures are not for torts, nor has the change in relation to the trial
of them happened on any principle applicable to torts.. Moreover,
it has been made as to seizures only under express statutes, and the
construction put on those statutes ; and -if this is to be followed by
analogy, no change can be made as to torts except by &xpress
statutes.
But there has never been any such statute as to them, and if
without it-the change was made by analogy, tide-waters would not
be the test, as is here contended, but, like cases of, seizures, any
wateri navigable by a boat of ten tons burden. It is even a matter
of very grave doubt, whether a mistake was not committed in refusing a trial by.jury in cases of seizure, under our Judiciary Act,
whenever desired, or at least whenever not made on the high seas.
Kent, Dane, and several others, think the early decisions made on
this, and which have since been merely copied, .were probably erroneous. 1 Kent's Com. 376 ; 6 Dane, 357.
So thought Congress, likewise, when, Feb. 13th, I301 (see. 1 th),
it conferred on the Circuit Court jurisdiction over '.' all seizures on
land or water, and all penalties and forfeitures made, arising, or accruing under the laws of the United States." This was original cognizance, though not in a court of admiralty, and properly treated
seizures on water as on land, and to be all of course tried by a
jury. 2 Stat. at Large, 92. This was a change made by Congress,
itself, aided by some of the first lawyers in the country. But as
the ,.hole statute was repealed, on a6count of the obnoxious circumstances as to the judges under which it was passed, all the changes
fell with it.
.The adrhiralty in England did not exercise any jurisdiction over
seizures for revenue, though on the -ocean.
8 Wheat. 396,
note. But it was in the court of exchequer, and was devolved on
admiralty courts in the colonies for convenience, as no court of
exchequer existed there. Duponceau's Jurisdiction, 139, and note.
This additional jurisdiction, however, was not an adairalty one,
and ought-to have been used with a jury, if desired, as in the exchequer. Powers not admiralty are for convenience still devolved
on admiralty courts ; and it was a great grievance, complained of
by our ancestors here, that such a trial was rlot allowed in. such
cases before the Revolution. Uindoubtedly it was the -expectation
of most of those who voted for the-act of 1789, that the trial by
jury would not be here withheld in cases of seizures for breach of
laws of the revenue, which they.had always insisted on as their
constitutional right as Englishmen, and, a fortiori, as Americans.

484

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

They had remonstrated early and late, and complained of "this
abridgment of the trial by. jury even in he Declaration of- Independence, and as one prominent cause and justification, of the Revolution. 1 Journal of Old Congress, 45; 6 Dane's Abr. 357; Baldw.
C. C. 551. As plenary evidence of this, it is necessary to quote
here but a single document, as that was drawn up by John Jay, afterwards the 'chief justice of this court. It is the address by the old Congress, October 21st, 1774, to the people of Great Britain, and among
other grievances says, - " It was ordained, that whenever offences
should be committed in the colonies against particular acts imposing
duties and restrictions upon trade, the prosecutor might bring his action for the penalties in the courts of admiralty ; by which means
the subject lost the advantage of being tried by an honest, uninfluenced jury of the vicinage, and was subjected to the sad necessity of being judged by a single man, - a creature of the crown,
- and according to the course of a law (civil) which exempts the
prosecutor from the trouble of proving his accusation, and obliges
the defendant'either to evince his innocence or to suffer."
. Now, after these reprobations of such a practice, - after two specific amendments, to the constitution to secure the trial by jury in
cases before doubtfil, - and after three clauses in the Judiciary Act"
expressly allowing it in all proper cases, -who can believe that
they intended in the ninth section of that very act to use language
which ought to be construed so as to deprive them entirely of a
jury trial in that very class of cases where the refusal of it had
long been denounced by them as oppressive, unlawful, and one of
the grounds for a revolution ? Should we thus brand them with
duplicity, or tyranny ?
As a single illustration that their views in the act of 1789 have
probably been misconstrued or misapprehended, if seizures for
breaches of the Jaws of revenue and trade were in reality "cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," as meant in the constitution,
then no statute was necessary, like a clause in that of 1789, to make
them so, and to make them so not at the line of tide-water, which
is here contended for, but wherever a boat of twenty tons could go
from the ocean. And if they were not such cases 'to that extent
and in that manner without a statute, but were common law and
exchequer cases, thep.it is certain a statute would not make them
" admiralty cases," but might devolve their -trial on the District'
Court, allowing a jury, as that trial was expressly reserved by The
amendment to the constitution in all common law cases. Stokes
discloses the derogatory reason assigned for such a violation of our
forefathers' rights by some of the British'statutes before the Revolution (Stokes on Constitvtion of Colonies, 360). With much naivet6 , he says, - " In prosecutions in the courts of -vice-admiralty
in the colonies for the breach of any act of Parliament relating to
the trade and revenue of the colonies, all questions as well of fact

JANUARY .TERM, 1847.

485

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

as of law are decided by a judge alone, without the intervention
of a jury ; for such was the inclination of the colonists in many
provinces to carry on a contraband trade, that to try the fact of an
information by, a jury would be almost equivalent to the repealing
of the act of Parliament on which such information was grounded.
In other respects, I apprehend the proceedings should be conducted as near dis may be to the practice of the Court of Exchequer
-in England." And the reason said to have been assigned by Judge
Chase for the construction first put on the Judiciary Act - that seizures for violation of the laws of revenue -nd trade were meant by
Congress to be treated as cases in admiralty, and tried without a
jury, though they never had been so tried in England till the encroaching statutes, and never here except as our fathers declared to
be illegally - is almost as harsh, and more derogatory on our fathers themselves, as being an act done by themselves, in saying it
was to avoid "the great danger to the revenue if such cases should
be left to the caprice of juries." The United States v. Betsey, 4
Cranch, 446, note.
Whoever could conjecture, for such a reason, that a statute was
intended to have such a construction, seems to have forgotten the
remonstrances of our fathers against the odious measures of Engl
land corresponding with such a construction ; and to have overlooked the probable difference in the feelings of juries towards
laws made by themselves or their own representatives, and those
made by a Parliament in which they were not represented, and
whose doings seemed often designed to oppress, rather than protect,
ihem. And what presumption is there that an exclusion of juries
from trials as to trade and revenue, for causes like these, was
meant to be extended to torts ?
The reason is totally inapplicable, and hence the presumption
entirely fails. What a stretch of presumption without sufficient data
is it to infer that this resisted case of seizures is first strong evidence
of a ldrger jurisdiction in admiralty established here, and likely to
be adopted under the constitution by those who had always ardently
opposed it, and next is evidence of a larger jurisdiction in other
matters, disconnected ertirey with that and all the reasons ever
urged in support of it ?
The last inquiry on this question of jurisdiction is, What
have been the 'decisions concerning the locality of torts in admiralty in the courts of the United States since the constitution
-was adopted ?
It is the uncertainty and conflict concerning these, which has in
part renderea it necessary to explore with so much care how the
iaw was here, when our present system of government went into
operatior
It is a matter of surprise, on a critiel examination of the books,
to see upon how slight foundations this claimed departure from the
41 *

486

SUPREME COURTS
Waring et al. v. Clarke'.

established law in force in England as to torts rests, when looking
to precedents in this country. I do not hesitate to concede to.the
advocates of a change, that the doctrine has been laid down in two
or three respectable compilers., Curtis" on Merchant Seamen, 362 ;
Dunlap's Ad. 51. But others oppose it; and we search in vain
for reasons assigned anywhere in its favor. The authorities cited
from the books of reports in favor of a change here are not believed,
in a single instance, to be in point, while several appear to maintain a contrary doctrin6.
They are sometimes mere dicta, as the leading case of De
Lovio v. Boit, in 2 Gall. 467, 424, that having been a case of a
contract and not a tort ; or as in 1 Mason, C. C. 96, that having
occurred on the high seas. So Thomas v. Lane, 2 Sumner, 1 ;
Ware, 75, 96 ; 4 Mason, C. C. 380. Or they are cases cited,
such as Montgomery v. Henry, 1 Dall. 49, Which relate to dontracts alone.
(See, also, case by Judge Conkling, in New York
Leg. Ob., Oct. 1846 ; The Mary, I Paine's C. C. 673). Or they
happen 6d, as was averred in I Dall. 53, on waters out of any
county. Or they are cases of seizure for breaches of the laws of
trade, and navigation, and revenue, depending on express statute
alone. The Vengeance, 3 Dali. 297 ; The Betsy, 4 Cranch,
447 ; Wheelan v. The United States, 7 ibid. 112 ; Conkling's Pr.
350 ; I Paine's C. C. 504 ;" Gilp. 235 ; 1 Wheat. 920 ; 8 ibid.

391.

And are, as before explained, probably

isconstrued.

The parent of many of these mistaken references,
and of the decisions as to seizures, is the-case of The Vengeance, in 3 Dall. 297,
a case which Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, justly says
"was not sufficiently considered " (vol. 1, p. 376). It was not a
case of tort, as some seem to suppose ; nor even a seizure, under
the act of 1789, for a breach of the laws as to revenue and trade.
But it was an information for exporting arms, prohibited by a special
act, passed 22d May, 1793.
Some of the references, likewise, 'are to cases of prize, which in
England as well as here never depended on locality, like the high
seas, but might be even on land, and were at first conferred on the
admiralty courts by special commission, and were not originally a part
of its permanent jurisdiction. 10 Wheat. 315; 5 ibid. 120, App. ;
4 Dall. 2 ; Doug. 613, note; 1 Kent's Com. 357. Where any of
the references in the books here are to printed cases of tort, they
uniformly appear, to have been committed on the high seas, or
without the body of a county and State. Burke v. Trevitt, 1
Mason, 96, 99, 360; Mariro v. The Almeida, 10 Wheat. 474, 486,
487 ; The Josefa Segunda, ibid. 315; Thomas v. Lane, 2 Sumner, 1 ; The Appollon, 9 Wheat. 368; Plummer v. Webb, 4 Mason's C. C. 380, and Ware, 75 ; Steele v. Thatcher, Ware, 96.
If the act happened in foreign countries,, in fide-waters, there may
well be jurisdiction, ds being not within the body of any. county here.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

481

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

Thomas v. Lane, 2 Sumner, 9. Such was the case of The Appollon, 9 Wheat. 368, not being a case within tide-waters and a
county in this country.
There is an expression in 12 Peters, 76, which is supposed by
some to sanction a change. But it is only a dictum, that having been
a case of crime, and the idea and the expression are, not that torts
or crimes could be tried in admiralty, when committed within a
county, on tide-water therein, but that in no case, if committed on
land or above tide-water, could they be tried there as admiralty offences, but only as ofences defined and punished by acts of Congress under the power to regulate commerce. United States v.
Coombs, 12 Peters, 76. This may be very true, and yet in torts,
as well as crimes, they may not be punishable without a statute,
and as mere admiralty cases, unless committed on the ocean.
tDuring this session I have for the first time seen a case decided in
one of our circuits, which holds that the tide-waters of the Savannah
river are within the jurisdiction of the .admiralty, as to collisions
between boats. Bullock v. The Steamboat Lamar, 1 Western
L. J.444. '-But as the learned judge seems to have taken it for
granted that the question of jurisdiction bad been settled by previous
decisions, he does not go into an examination of its principles, and
cites only one authority (7 Peters, 324), which will be found to be
a case of contract and not tort. So that, with this single exception,.
so far as it be one, not a single reported case is found, and only one
manuscript case referred to (Dun!. Adm. 51), where a tort was
committed within one of our counties, though on tide-water, which
was adjudged to be within admiralty jurisdiction, since the country
was first settled, or of a like character in Ebgland, unless by recent
statutes, for the last four centuries.
On the contrary, in Bee's Admiralty Reports and Peters's, in
Gilpin's and Ware's, cases for torts are found, but all arising on the
high seas, unless some doubt exists as to one in the last, partly
overruled afterwards in the Circuit Court. So, whatever may be
the obiter dicta, it is the same as to all in Paine, Washington,
Baldwin, and even Gallison, Mason, Simner, and Story. Indeed,
this result accords with what was rightfully to be anticipated 'from
the rule laid down in the first elementary law-book in the hands of
the profession at the time of the Revolution, that " admiralty
courts" (3 Bl. 106), had cognizance of what is "committed
on the high seas, out of the reach of our ordinary courts of
justice." And "all admiralty causes must be, .therefore, causes
arising wholly upon the sea, and not within the precincts of any
county." 3 Bl. Com. 106.
Moreover, as to American authorities directly against these supposed changes as to torts, it is hardly possible to find any thing
stronger than the absence we have just -referred to, almost entire,
of any attempt in actions to sustain the. jurisdiction in admiralty

488

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

over torp, unless happening on the high seas, and the uniform
settled dcisions in England, that it exists only there. But, beside
this, there is the absence likewise of any colonial statutes or colonial decisions to bring in question at all the adjudged cases at home,
which governed this question here no less than there. There is next
the remark by Chancellor Kent, that if tides ebb and flow in a county, a recovery cannot be had for a tort there, on the principles of the
common law courts. 1 Kent's Com. 365, note ; 3 Hag. Ad. 369.
And no 6 ne can read the learned Digest of Dane without seeing
that in torts he conrsiders the trial by jury proper, wherever they
occur within the body of any county. 6 Dane's Abr. Prohibition.
And it is laid down generally, in several other instances in this
country, that the locality of,torts must be on "1the sea," in order to
confer jurisdiction on the admiralty. Thackery et al., Gilp. 524,
529 ; 3 Mason, 243; Baldw. C. C. 550-554. So in Adams v.
Haflards, 20 Pick. 130. See also the colonial case before cited
from 1 Dali. 53, Montgomery v. Henry et al., directly in point,
'that the line of the county was the test, and not tide-water, .unless
without the county. This was in 1780, and is most conclusive
proof, that no colonial enlargement of mere admiralty jurisdiction
as to this matter had occurred here in practice, either under the
words of commissions to vice-admiralty judges, or any difference
of circumstances and condition.
But, beside this, one resolve of the old Congress shows, that they
considered the line of the county as the true one ; and hence its violation in cases of trade and revenue, under statutes passed to oppress
them, caused their remonstrances that the vice-admiralty courts had
transgressed the ancient limits of the bodies of coun ies. I Journal
of Old Cong. 2 I -23.
How unlikely, then, is the inference from this,
that the framers of the constitution regarded this encroachment as
the true line, and, when protesting against it, not only meant to adopt
it, but extend it to cases of torts ?
It is not a little remarkable, too, tht in maturer life Judge
Story himself, in speaking of the jurisdiction over torts (3 Com.
on Constit. 1659), says, -"
The jurisdiction claimed by the
courts of admiralty as properly belonging to them extends to all acts
and torts done upon the high seas, and within the ebb and flow of
the sea."
That means, at common law, outside of a county.
Thus says Coke, in 4 Inst. 134 : " So as it is not material
whether the place be upon .the waters infra fluxum et refluxum
agum ; but whether it be upon any water within any county."
Sea
Laws-, 234. Again, the ebb and flow of tide, to give jurisdiction to
the admiral, means on the coast putside. Fortescue, De Laudibus
L. Ang. 68, note. So in 2 Madison Papers, 799, 800, it will be
seen that Judge Wilson deemed the admiralty jurisdiction to relate
to what the States had not exercised power over, and to the sea.
So in The Federalist, No. 80, cases arising on the high seas are
said to be those embraced.

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

489

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

Indeed, the departure from the settled line of jurisdiction as to
torts here, so far as it may have gone in theory or speculation,
seems likely to have begun in mistake rather than in any old commission or adjudication, founded on any statute or any well-settled
principle. It is likely to have commenced either by omitting to
discriminate between torts and contracts, or between torts depending
on general principles and seizures for violating laws of revenue and
trade, which depended on the words of a special statute, and the
construction given to those words ; or from a supposed but unfounded analogy to the rules as to prizes, with, which our-fathers
were very familiar in the Revolution, and taking cognizance of them
in admiralty here, as in England, if captured anywhere, not only on
tide-water or ", below high-water mark," but even on land. 4 Dall.
2 ; 2 Bro. Civ. and Adm. Law, 112 ; 5 Wheat., App. 120. Or it
may have occurred, and that probably was oftenest the case, from
various general expressions in the English books an4 cases as to the
admiralty jurisdiction being coextensive with tide-waters, when
that expression means, in all the adjudged cases in England as to
torts and crimes, - and must, on principle, as before shown, mean, in
order to secure the trial by jury and the common law, - the tidewaters on the sea-coast, the flux and reflux of the tide, out of the
body of a county.
There is a similar expression in Judge Story's Commentaries on
the Constitution (vol. 3, ยง 1667), as to crimes, in speaking of the
existence of admiralty jurisdiction over them in creeks " and bays
within the ebb and flow of tide" ; but he takes care to add, very
properly, "at least in such ds are out of the body of any county in
Probably-the true origin of the whole error was by looka State."
ing to expressions about tide-water, or the ebb ancl flow of tide,
without noticing further that the act must be in such tide-waters as
4"are out of the body of any county in a State," and that this was
indispensable to be observed, in order to protect the invaluable principles we have been discussing.
The power of the general government and its courts over admiralty matters was doubtless conferred on account of its supervision
over foreign trade and intercourse with other nations, and not to
regulate boats like these, far in the interior, and never going to any
foreign territory, or even adjoining State, much less touching the
ocean. Nothing can be more significant of the correctness of this
limitation to matters on the ocean, than the remarks of Chief .Tustice
Jay, in Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dal]. 475, that the judicial power
of the Union was extended to " cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, because, as the seas are the joint property of nations,
whose rights and privileges thereto are regulated by the laws of nations and 'reaties, such cases necessarily belong to national juris-

diction."
Our forms of proceeding, also, in admiralty, and which are founded

490

SUPREME COURT.
Wring et al. v. Clarke.

on substance, count usually on the. tramaction as having happened
on " the high seas," knowing full well that they are the great theatre and territory for the exercise of admiralty law and admiralty
power ; and being obliged to make such an allegation in England
in order to gain jurisdiction. Ross v. Walker, 2 Wils. 265.
Half the 'personal quarrels between seamen in the coasting trade
and our vast shore fisheries, and timber-men on rafts, and gundalo
men, and men in flat boats, workmen in the seacoast marshes, and
half the injuries to their property, are where the tide ebbs and flows
in our rivers, creeks, and ports, ,though not on' the high seas; But
they never were thought to be cases of admiralty jurisdiction when
damages. are claimed, -much lesg when prosecuted for crimes ;
never in cfeeks, though the tide ebbs arid flows there through half
.of our seaboard towbs, - never in rivers. All is within the county,
and is usually tried before State officers and by State laws.
It has just been remarked by one of my brethren, as to torts and
crimes, as has been before said by some in controversies as to contracts, that the statutes of Richard the. Second were not in force in
the colonies. 'See 2 Gall. 398, 473; 1 Peters's Ad. 233; Ware,
91 ; Hall's Ad. Pract. 17, Pref. I cheerfully concede it may well
be doubted whether any portion of the common law or English
statutes, passed before the settlement of this country, became in
force here, unless suited to ourcondition, or favorable to the subject and his liberties. But these statutes were both. They were
suited to the condition of thosu attached to the common law and
jury trial in the colonies, no lets than at home, and they were in
favor of the rights and liberties of the subject, to be tried by his
own and not foreign laws, and by'a jury for all matters happening
within the realm, and not on the high seas. And so far from ancient
statutes of that character not having any force here, they had as
much as those parts of the common law which were claimed, October 14, 1774, by Congress among the 1 indubitable rights and liberties to:'which the respective colonies are entitled." 1 Journal of
Congress, 28. They came here with them, as a part of their admiralty law, as much as came any portion of the common law, or
the trial by jury. They came as much as Magna Charta or the
Bill of Rights, and they should exist here now, in respect to all
matters, with all the vigor that characterized them at home at the
time'of our Revolution.. Baldw. C. C. 551 ; Ramsey v. Alleyne,
12 Wheat. 638. So decided .virtually in Montgomery v. Henry,
1 Dall. 53 ; Talbott v. The Three Briggs, 1 Dall. 106.
The principles, dear to freemen of the Saxon race, - preferring
the trial by jury, and the common law, to a single judge in admiralty.
and the civil law, - which were involved in these statutes, could
be no less highly prized by our American fathers than their.English
ancestry,, especially when we look to their numerous resolutions on

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

491

Waring. et al. v. Clarke.

this subject, both before and during the Revolution, cited in other

portions of this opinion. *
One of our soundest jurists has said long since, - "The common law of England, and every statute of that country made for
the benefit of the subject before our ancestors migrated to this country, were, so far as the same were applicable to the nature of their
situation, and for their benefit, brought over hither by them ; and
wherever they are not repealed, altered, o~r amended by the constitutional provisions or legislative declaration of the res.pective
States, every beneficial statute and rule of the common law still
Tucker, in Part II. of BI. Corn App. 99;
remains in force."
Im. Op. 75; Woodcock, 159.f
2
hether the 13 and 15 of Richard H. were in affirmance of
what was the true limit of admiralty jurisdiction at first in England,
or otherwise, is not very material. But it is certain that it was
likely to be but declaratory of that, as the people were so devoted
to the common law trials by jury. The extraordinary idea, that
these statutes were not in force here, was first broached in A. D.
1801, and then in a District Court, in direct opposition to the
views expressed in I Dall. 53. The point then decided under
that novel notion was, that a lien existed for repairs of a domestic
ship, without the aid of any statute, and has been 'since expressly
overruled by this court in The General Smyth, 4 Wheat. 413. And
why overruled by this court, but on the principld that the admiralty
jurisdiction here was what it had been in England before our constitution, and not elsewhere, - not that of France before the Norman conquest, or that of Holland now ?
Indeed, Justice Story, as a commentator in respect to other
clauses of the constitution no more open to such a construction
than this, concedes that they are to be " understood"- "according
to the known distinction in the jurisprudence of England, which our
ancestors brought with them upon their emigration, and with which
3 Story's
all the American States were familiarly acquainted."
Com. on the Constitution, 506, ยง 1639.
Nor let it be again 6ffered in extenuation, that, the power being
coneurr6nt in the common law courts, the plaintiff from choice goes
into the admiralty; because the other party, 'who is often prosecuted only to be vexed and harassed, and who has rights as well as
the plaintiff, may be thus forced into admiralty, rather than the
* They are so numerous as to remind one of the zeal and perseverance in favor
of the greAt charter, which wag such as to require it to be redd twice a y ar in each
by encathedral, and to have it ratified anew over thirty times, when put in p ril
croaching monarchs. 1 Stat. at Large (English), 274, ch. 3i also, . , note.
to ensFaves,
but
to
be
sent
out
"are
not
colonies
to
form
who
go
SThus people
joy equal privileges and freedom." Grotius, De Jure Belli, B. 2, ch. 9, ยง 10. Or
"the same rights and privileges as those who staid at home." Or, as in the charter
of Elizabeth to Raleigh, "1neioyall the privileges of free denizens or persons' na.
tive of England." Part I. 'of Tucker's BI., vol. 1, . 383, App.

492

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

common law, much against his choice. Nor let it be said further,
as an apology, that the trial by admiralty is better and more satisfactory, When our ancestors, both English and American, have resisted
it, and excluded it in all common law caseยง, for reasons most vital
to public liberty-and the authority of the local tribunals. Such an
enlargement of a power so disliked by our fathers is also unnecessary ; because, if desirable to have the United States courts try
such cases, rather than those of the States, they can be enabled to
do it by express provisions, under the power to regulate foreign
commerce and collect re'ienue,-as is now done on the .Lakes ; 12
Peters, 75 ; 5 Statutes at Large, 726 ; Act of February 26th,
1845 ; and reserving, as in that case, the'right of trial by jury.*
I have thus examined this question in all its various aspects, and
endeavoured to answer all which has been suggested in favor of a
change here as to the line of admiralty jurisdiction in the case of
,the collision of vessels, as well as other marine torts.
Among my remarks have been several, showing that there was
nothing in our condition as colonists, or since, and nothing in the
nature of the subject and the great principles involved, which should
render the same. line of jurisdiction not proper in Anierica which
existed in England,-but in truth some additional reasons in favor of
it here. I do not now, in conclusion, proposle to dwell much on
this peculiar condition of ours, though some members. of this court
have just urged it earnestly as a reason why the sam' line dos not,
apply,
they have
the statttes
of Richard
II. did , ot apply.
But theas idea
is a why
untenable
in respect
to the principle
generally,
looking to our condition, as we have already shown it to be in
respect to those statutes. Thus, in that condiiont,
what reason
was there ever for a change ? None. And, if otherwise believed,
when we were colonies, would not the change'have been made by
acts- of assembly approved at home, or an act of Parliament ?
And if not done when col6nies, but supposed to be proper after the
Revolution, would not the framers- of the -constitution, or of the
Judiciary Act, have knowo it as 'quicky-iil fully as this court:?
and was it not more proper for them to have made such a change
than this court ? If our political institutions or principles required
it,. did not they know, and should not they have attended to that
rather than we ? If such a change had already happened in the
then thirteen colonies, and was too well known and acquiesced in,
As some evidence that the makers of this last law did not suppose it settled
that the District Courts could, as admiralty courts, have any jurisdiction as to torts,
because committed on tide-waters within a State, when they felt obliged to pass a
special law to confer it on the Lakes, it'was not conferred there as exercised on
"tide-waters," which would have been sufficient, if so settled, but on "the high
seas, or tide-waters within the admirilty and maritime'jurisdiction," &c. This
statute is also scrupulous to save the trial by jury when'desired, and thus avoies
treating it as an admiralty power got in torts, unless on the high seas, by a con.truetion contrary to the political opinions and prejudices of our ancestors. and to
the whole spirit of our institutions.

JANUARY

TE'RM, 1847.

Waring et al. v.

493

Clarke.

as to torts and crimes, to need any written explanation or sa tion,
why cannot it be pointed out in colonial laws, or in judicial i cords,
or at least in contemporaneous history of some kind P And if such
a change was required and intended, as some insist, by resorting to
other than English law for a guide as to what were admiralty cases
within the meaning of the constitution, because'something less narrow, geographically or otherwise, as it has been argued, something on a grander scale, and in some degree commensurate in length
and breadth with our mighty rivers and lakes, was needed, - as if a
system which had answered for trade over all the ocean of the
globe was not large enough for us, -then why-not extend it at
least over all our navigable waters, and not halt short at the doubtful,
and fluctuating- and pent-up limits of tide-water ? And was a change
so much required to go into the bodies of numerous counties and
States, to the jeopardy of jury trials, by any increased dislike to
them among our jealous fathers? Were they wishing, by mere
construction, to let more and more go into the cognizance of tha
admiralty and be tried without a jury, and without the principles of
the common-law, when they had been so indignantly remonstrating
against any and every the smallest encroachment by England on that
sacred trial,? And is this guaiantee of a jury trial in such cases f6
be considered of subordinate moment in the views of those living at
the era of the formation of the constitution, and the passage of the
act of 1789, when their eagerness was such to guaranted it fully, that
two of the only twelve amendments ever made to it relate tb additional safeguards for this trial ? And in the Judiciary Act of 1789,
there are introduced, ex industria, three. separate provisions to secure jury trials.
Indeed, so far fromthere being any thing in our condition as colonists, or in public opinion at the Revolution, which demanded a
change enlarging admiralty forms and jurisdiction, the old Congress
specially resolved, November 25th, 1775, when recommending
to the colonies to institute courts to try captures, or devolve the
power on those now existing, that they "provide that all trials'in
such case be had by a jury," which was-going further in their favor,
instead of short of what had ever been done in England. And, in
1779, Virginia established admiralty courts, under recommendation
of the old Congress, and expressly allowed a jury in all cases where
either party desired it, if both were citizens. 10 Hening's Stat.
101. The same is understod to have been done in several other
States. See The Federalist, No. 83. In I'assachusetts, under
the old charter, as long ago as 1673, the court of admiralty was
expressly authorized to allow a jury when it pleased. Ancient
Charters and Laws, 721 (App.). Iredell says, also, in the North
Carolina Convention (4 Elliot's Deb. 155) :"
There are different practices in regard to this trial in different States. In some
VOL. V.

42

494

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v.* Clarke.

cases they have no juries in admiralty aud equity cases ; in others,
they have juries in them as well as in suits at common law."
And to the objectionis made against adopting the constitution, because the trial by jury might be restricted under it and suitors be
compelled to travel far for a hearing in ordinary cases (I Gales's Debates in First Congress)', it was argued that Congress would possess
the power to allow juries even in cases in admiralty (The Federalst, No. 83), and afterwards, by the origiiial amendments to the constitution, it was made imperative to allow them in all "I cases at
coinmon~law."
Yet now, by considering torts within a county as
triable, or as " cases in admiralty," which was not done by the commpn law, nor when the constitution was adopted, either in England
or here, we produce both the great evils deprecated; - an abridgment of the jury trial from what prevailed both here and in England,
and the forcing of citizens to a great distance from their State tribunals, to defend their rights under a different forum and a different
system of laws.
After these additional proofs of the ca ition of our ancestors to
checkthe usual admiralty poiver of trial without a jury, and more
especially to prevent any extension of it, could they for a moment,
when so jealous of the general government and its overshadowing
powers, wish to extend them further than ever before, either here
or in England ? * Did they mean to relinquish their time-honored
and long-cherished trial for torts on wafer within a county, and take
for a model despotic' France, for instance, which knew no trial by
jury in any case, and where the boundaries between the admiralty
and other courts were almost immaterial, being equally under the
civil law, and equally without the safeguard of their peers ? And
would they be likely to mean this, or wish it, when every such extension of admiralty jurisdiction was at the expense of the State
courts, and, transferring the controversies of mere citizens of one
State to distant jurisdictions, out of their counties aid in certain events
to the-remote seat of the general government, and then to'be tried
there, not by the common law, with whose ptinciples they were familiar, but by the civil, and when a full remedy existed at home
and in theit own courts ? Much less could they be supposed willing to do'this when the trial of fa.cts it this court was not to be by
their peers from the vicinage, or on oral' testimony, so that the witnesses could be seen, 'scrutinized, and well compared, but by judges,
who, however learned in the law, are less accustomed to' settle
facts, and possess less practical acquaintance with the subjectIfideed, in England it has been controverted whether the power in admiralty
to punish torts anywhere ever existed, even before Richard I. (3 Mason's C. (.
244), except through a jury, used to settle the facts at.J assess the damages. See
4 Rob. Ad. 60, note to Rucicer's case. The Black Book of the Admiralty, art. 12,
pl.169, is cited as speaking of the use of a jury twice in such cases. See'also Roughten, De Of Admiralis, 69, note. And at this day, in England, in thisciass of torts,.as
hereafr shown, the masters of Trinity House act virtually as a jury.

JANUARY TERM 1847.

495

Waring st al. v. Clarke.

matter in controversy.

And what are the urgent and all-controlling

reasons which exist to justify the new line urged upon -us, in such
apparent violation of the constitufion, and with so inauspicious a
departure from any thing required by our condition, or from. what
seems to have been the principles and precedents at the Revolution ?
It isnot the line even of the civil law, any more than of the common law. If this innovation had extended admiralty jurisdictiofi
over all navigable waters, it would have been, at least, less vague,
and found some vindication in its analogy to the civil code. - Digest, 43, tit. 12, 13 ; Code Napoleon, B. 2, ch. 2,tit. 556 ; Zouch's
Elements of Jurisp. .382. But the rule of tide-water within a
county, and not on the sea, 'conforms to' , no code norprecedent ;
neither marching boldly over all which' is -navigable, nor- halting
where the ocean meets -the land ; neither shunning to make wide
inroads into the territories of juries, nor pushing as far as all which
is nautical and commercial goes. The only plausible apology for
it, which I can find, is in a total misconception, before adverted to,
of the ancient and true rule, which was tide-water, but at the same
time tide-water without the body of the county, on the high seas.
But 'instead of the flux and" Teflux of the tide on the high seas, and
without the body of the countyk-,r State, and to support which line
stood the great pillars. of a jury trial -and the -common law, have
been attempted to be substituted, and that without authority of any
statute or clause in the.constitution, as to torts, the impulses from
the tides at any and every distance from the ocean, sometimes encroaching from one" to two hundred miles into the interior of counties .and States, and" prostrating those great' pillars most valuable
to the people of the States. And what, let me repeat the inquiry, is gained by such a hazardous construction? Not an adherence to old and established rules, not a respect f6r State rights ;
not strengthening the Union or its clear powers where assailed, but
weakening by extending them to doubtful, irritating, and unnecessary topics ; not an extension of a good system, hllowing the admiralty to'be one for all nautical matters, to all navigable waters and
commercial questions, but falling short, in some of our vast rivers or
inland seas, near one thousand miles from the bead of navigaiion,
and cutting off several cities with twenty, thirty, and even forty thousand population. 'The late act of February 26th, 1845 (5 Statutes
at Large, 726), was intended to remedy this, but does not include
any cases above tide-water on the Mississippi, or Cumberland, or
Ohio, and many others, but only those on the Lakes and their tributaries, and very properly even there reserves, with scrpulous care,
not only the right to either party of a trial by jury, but any remedy
existing at common law or in the States.
So, looking to results, if we disclaim jurisdiction here, what evil
dan happen ? Only that our citizens in this class of cases will be

06

SUPREME COURT.
Waring et al. v. Clarke.

allowed to be tried by their own State dourts, State laws, and State
juries. While, if we do the contrary, the powers of both States and
juries will be encroached on, and just dissatisfaction excited, and the
harmonious workings of pur political system disturbed. So, too,
if our national views have become actually changed so greatly, that
a trial by a single judge, and in admiralty, is preferred to a trial by
jury in the. State tribunals or the Circuit Courts, thefi our overruling
the jurisdiction in this case will only leave Congress to declare the
change, and provide for it-rather than this tribunal.
So the excuse for trying such cases in admiralty rather than in
courts of common law, which some have offered, on the ground that
the rules of decision are much the same, appears very ill-considered, when, if the civil law in this instance does not differ essentially
from the common law, the rules of evidence by it do, depriving us,
as triers, of the sight of the witnesses, and their apparent capacity
and character, and depriving the defendant of the invaluable trial by
jury, and stripping him of the right of being tried, and the State
courts of the right of trying controversies between their citizens, in
the neighbourhood where they occur. i' All controversies directly
between citizen and citizen will still remain with the local courts,"
said Mr. Madison in the Virginia convention. 3 Elliot's Deb. 489.
Now, after all this caution exercised in England not to extend no.
change admiralty jurisdiction there without the aid of express statute
and a reservation of common law remedies, - after a refusal to do it
here recently as to the Lakes and their tributaries, except in the
same way, and preserving the trial by jury, - after all the sensitiv&
ness of opr fathers in not doing it as to seizures for breach of
revenue and navigation laws, except by express statute, - after their
remonstrances ail cautions in various ways against abridging the
trial by jury, -after the jealousy entertained when the constitution
was adopted, that this court might absorb too much power from the
State tribunals, and the respect and forbearance which are always
justly due to the reserved rights of the States, - it certainly seems
much wiser in doubtful cases to let Congress extend our power, than
to do it ourselves, by construction or analogy.
So far from disturbing decisions and rules. of property clearly
settled; I am for one strongly disposed to uphold them, stare
decisis, and hence I am inclined in this case to stand by the ancient
landmarks, and not set every thing afloat,..- to stand, in fine, by
decisions, repeated and undoubted, which govern this jurisdiction,
till a different rule is prescribed by Congress.
The first doubt as to the jurisdiction in admiralty over the present case is thus sustained, but, being overruled by a majority of the
court, I proceed briefly to examine the next objection. It is one
founded in fact. It denies that the tide did in truth ebb and flow
at Bayou Gouia, the place of this collisi6n, in ordinary times.
There is no pretence that the water there is salt, or comes back

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

497

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

from the ocean, or that the tide there sets upward in a current, or
ever did, in any stage of the water in the Mississippi. Yet this is
the ordinary idea of the ebb and flow of the tide. I concede, however, that it has been settled by adjudged cases, that the tide is
considered in law to ebb and flow in any place where it affects the
water daily and regularly, by making it higher or lower in consequence of its pulsations, though no current back be caused by it.
Rex v. Smith, 2 Doug. 441 ; The Planter, 7 Peters, 343 ;
Hooker v. Cummings, 20 Johns. 98; Angell on Tide Waters, 637.
Yet this of course must be a visible, distinct rise an fall, and one
daily .caused by the tides, by being regular, periodicai, and corresponding with their movements. Amidst, conflicting evidence on a
point like this, it is much safer to rely on collateral facts, if thereobe
any important ones admitted, and on expert or scientific men, *ho
understand the subject, than on casual observers. The sea is conceded to be two hundred and three miles distant , and the current
of the Mississippi so strong as to be seen and felt far out to sea,
sometimes quite forty miles. The tides on that coast are but
eighteen or twenty inches high. The velocity of the current of the
river is ordinarily three to four miles an hour in high water, and the
river is two hundred feet deep for one hundred miles above New
Orleans. Stoddard's Hist. of Louisiana, 158. It therefore becomes
manifest, that on general principles such a current, with' its vast
volume of water, could not only never be turned back or overcome by the small tides of eighteen inches, as the flct of its influence forty miles at sea also demonstrates, but would not probably, in ordinary times, be at all affected in a sensible and regular
manner two hundred and three miles distant, and veakened by all
the numerous bends in that mighty river. From"New Orleans to
St. Louis the bends are such, that a boat must cross the stream
390 times. Stoddard's Hist, of Louisiana, 374.
Again, the descent in the river from the place of this collision to
the ocean is quite a foot and a half, all the usual rise of the tide on
the coast ; and hence, at a low stage of watar in the river, much
more at a high one, thirty feet above the lowest, no tides are likely
to be felt, nor would they probably be during the whole season of
a full river, from November to June.
In the next place, several witnesses testify as to their observations in respect to the tides, and confirm what might be expected
from these collateral facts. The most scientific among them took frequent observations for twQ years, at or nigh Jefferson College, thirtyseven miles nearer the sea than the place of this collision, to ascertain this very fact, and testifies that no regular daily influence is felt
there from the tides. Oscillations may occur, but not regularly, nor
as tides. They happen in that way even near the foot of the Falls
of Niagara, but of course are produced by causes entirely discon42*

498

SUPREME

COURT.

Waring .et -al. v. Clarke.

nected from the tides of the ocean. So they happen, from other
causes, on most of our interior lakes.
Sometimes cbntinued winds in one -direction make a great difference in the rise of the water at different places ; and sometimes, the
emptying in near of large tributary streams, changeable in their size
at different seasons. Both of these are testified to occur in the
Mississippi inits lower parts. At high water, which prevails over
half the year, from rains and the dissolving of snow, it also deserves
notice, that the fall of the river towards the ocean is near one and
two-thirds of an inch per mile ; and the difference betiveen high and
low water mark near Bayou Goula is also, as before noticed, from
thirty to thirty-three feet.
From"all -this it is easy to see, that, during more than half the year,
it is hardly possible that a regular tide from the ocean should be felt
there, though it is admitted ihat, in conflict with this, some witnesses testify to what they consider such tides there, and indeed as
high up as Bayou Sarah. But their evidence is insufficient,to overcome, in my-mind, the force of the other facts and testimony on

this subject.
In connectioxi with this point, it. seems to be conceded, also, that,
in order to give admiralty jurisdiction,- the vessels must be engaged
in maritime business, as well -as the collision have occurred where
the tido ebbs and flows. There might be some question, whether
themain business of either of these boats was what'is called marias to bring them and their
time, or touching the sea, -mare, -so
business within the scope of admiralty power. If, to do that, they
must be employed on thehigh seas, whidh is the English rule, neither
was so engaged in any part of its voyage or business. Or if, for
that purpose, it is enough, as may be contended in this country, that
they be engaged exclusively on tide-waters, neither was probably so
employed in this instance. And it is only by holding that it is
enough for one end of the voyage to be in tide-water, however fresh
the ,water or slight the tide, that their employment can be considered
maritime.
In The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, the court say, the end
or beginning of the employment may be out of' tide-water, if " the
service was to be substantially performed on the sea or tide-water."
So in The Phcebus, 11 Peters, 183. But in the case of the
Thomas Jefferson, as well as the Phmbus, the service, being in fact
chiefy out of tide-waters, was not considered as mharitime.
In the case of The Planter, 7 Peters, 324, the whole service
performed was in tide-waters, and was a contract, and hence
deemed maritime. Here the boats were employed in the trade between New Orleans at one point, and Bayou Sarah at the other, a
distance of one hundred and sixty-five miles. If the tide ebbs and
flows as high as Bayou Goula, or ninety-seven miles above New'
Orleans, which we have seen is doubtful, it is only'a small fraction

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

499

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

above half the distance, but not enough above half to characterize
the main employment of the vessel to be in tide-waters, or -to say
that her service was substantielly on -the sea, or even tide-water.
The De Soto made trips still higher' up than Bayou Sarah, to
Bayou Tunica, twenty-seven miles farther from New Orleans.
The testimony is, also, that both these boats were, in their construction, river, and not sea, boats ; and the De Soto was built for the
Red River trade, where no tides are pretended to exist, and neither
was ever probably on the ocean, or within a hundred miles of it.
It is doubtful if a vessel, not engaged in trade from State to State,
or from a State abroad, but entirely within a State, comes under
laws of the general govemment as to admiralty matters or navigation. It is internal commerce, and out of the reach of federal.,jurisdiction. Such are vessels on Lake Winnipiseogee, entirely
within the State of New Hampshire. In the Luda and De Soto
they were engaged in internal commerce, and not from State to
State*, or from a State to a foreign country. 1 Tucker's BI. Com.
250, note.
In most cases on the Mississippi, the boats are engaged in the
coasting trade from one State to another, and hence are different,
and assume more of a public character. So on the Lakes the vessels
often go to foreign ports, as well as to other States, and those on the
seaboard engaged in the fisheries usually touch abroad, and. are required to have public *papers. But of whit- use are custom-house
papers or admiralty laws to vessels in the interior, nevbr going from
State to State, nor from a State to a foreign country, as was the
situation and employment at the time of these two boats ?
These are strong corroborations that this is a matter of local
cogniz nce, - of mere State trade, - of parties living in the same
county, and doing business within the State alone, - and should no
more be tried without a jury, and decided by the laws of Oleron
and Wisbuy, or the Consulat del Mare, or the Black Book of Admiralty, than a collision between two wagoners in the same county.
. The second objection, then, as a whole, is in my view sustained;
and, being one of mere facf rather than law, it is to be regretted
that the court could not have agreed to dismiss the libel on that
ground, without settling the other poihts, and without prejudice to
the rights of either party in a trial at common law.. The plaintiff
would then be enabled to have all the facts on the merits examined
and adjudicated by a jury from the valley of the Mississippi ; much
more skilful than this court, from their residence and experience, in
judging upon accidents and negligences-in navigation on that great
thoroughfare.
The only good reason that the admiralty judge was ever intrusted
with the iecision of facts, rather than a jury, was, that originally fie
was but a deputy of the admiral, and often a nautical man, - acquainted with nautical matters, and acting only on them ; and now in

500

SUPREME COURT.
Waring-et al. v. Clarke.

England he calls to his aid on facts the experienced nautical officers
or masters of the Trinity House, - " a company," says Coke, "of
the chiefest and most expert masters and governors of ships.". 4
Inst. 149. He takes their opinion and advice on the facts as to
collisions of vessels before he himself decides. 2 Bro. Civ. and Ad.
Law, 112; 6 D. & E. 766 ; The Celt, 3 Hag. Ad. 327. The
case is often fully argued before them first. 1 Wn. Rob. 133- 135,
273, 314; Hall's Ad. Pr. 139 ; 5 Rob. Ad. 347. But every
thing here is so different,, and so much against the skill of judges
of this court in settling such facts, that in cases of doubt we are
very likely, as has now happened, to disagree, and it is far better
they should be examined by a jury in the vicinage of the collision.
Perhaps it was a consideration like this that led to the doctrine,
both abroad and here, in favor of the common law courts haying
concurrent jurisdiction in these cases of collision, even when they
happen on the high seas. 1 Chit. on P1. 152, 191 ; 15 Mass.
755 ; 3 East, 598 ; Percival v. 'Hickey, 18, Johns. 257 ; 15
Johns. 119 ; 14 Johns. 273 ; Curtis's Nerch. Seamen, 367 ; 2
Johns. 138 ; Smith v. Condry, 1 Howard, 36 ; Gilp. 483; 4
Mason, C. C. says it is-claimed; 2 Gall. 343 on precedent.
Indeed, the laws of Louisiana are quoted as pertaining to and
regulating the conduct of boats when passing on the Mississippi
within that State. 1 Bullard & Curry's Dig. ยง 794. 'But so far
from their being a guide to us in admiralty,. if having jurisdiction
in that way over these boats at this place, the- rights of parties,
as before seen in su6h questions, are to be settled by the laws existing in some undescribed part of the world, but not England in
A. D.. 1776 or A. D. 1789, or Louisiana in A. D. 1845. If
England, this case would not be tried at all in admiralty, as we
have seen ; and if Louisiana, then the case would not be settled
by admiralty law, but- by the laws of Louisiana, and in the State
tribunals.
Again, whoever affirms jurisdiction to be in the courts of the
United States must make it out, and remove all reasonable doubts,'
or the court should not exercise it. Bobyshall v. Oppenheimer, 4
Wash. C. C. 483; 7 Peters, 325; Peters's C.'C. 36. Because
these courts are courts of limited jurisdiction, and acting under
express grants, and can presume nothing beyond the grant, and because, in respect to admiralty power, if any thing is presumed when
not clear, it is presuming against the trial by jury, and the State
tribunals, and their reserved rights. Where a jurisdiction is of a
limited nature, "c they [claiming it]must show that the party was
brought within it." 1 East, 650. And where a case is in part dependent on common law, and in part on admiralty, it must be tried
in the courts of the former. Bee's Ad. 470.
But the second objection to our jurisdiction being also considered by the court untenable, this case is to be examined on the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

501

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

merits ; and as to these it seems to me not free from difficulty,
though ;n my view indicating some fault in both"the boats.
From the very nature of navigation, - as vessels cannot be always turned quick, and as a constant lookout is hardly practicable
both night and day, - collisions on rivers with frequent bends in
them, like the Mississippi, and during darkness, are occasionally almost inevitable, and often are attended by no blame. The danger
and injuryto both vessels is so great in almost every case, one or
both not unseldom going down, with all on board, that the strongest
motives exist with all to use care and skill to avoid' collisions. The
want of them, therefore, is never to be presumed, but is required
to be clearly proved. To presume otherwise would be to presume men will endanger their own lives and property, as well as
those of others, without any motive of gain or ill-will.
Hence our inquiries must start with the probability, that, in such
collisions, accident and misconception as to courses and distances
caused the injury, rather than -neglect or want of skill. Indeed, in
these cases it is laid down as a rule by Sir Christopher Robinson, in
The Ligo, 2 Hag. 356, that "the law requires that there shall be
preponderating evidence to fix the loss on the party charged, before the court can adjudge him to make compensation." 2 Dod. 83.
I am unable to discern any such clear preponderance in this case
in favor of the Luda. It is true that some allowance must be made
as to the testimony of the officers and men in each boat. In both
they would naturally be attached to her character or interests, and
desirous in some degree of vindicating themselves .or friends. And
it happens that, from such or some other cause, those on each side
usually testify more favorably as to the care and skill with which
the boat was conducted in which they were employed at the
time. Hence resort moist be had to some leading and admitted
facts as a guide, when they can be distinctly ascertained, to see
whether the, collision was from any culpable misconduct by either.
For like reasons, we should go to witnesses on shore and passengers, where they had means of knowledge, rather than to the officers
and crews implicated on either side. Taking these for our guidance
chiefly, and so far as it-is possible here to decide with much accuracy; most of the case looks to me, on the facts, quite as much like
one of accident, or one arising from error of judgment and mutual
misapprehension, as from any culpable neglect on the part of the
officers of the De Soto alone.
It is to be remembered, that this collision occurred in the night;
that neither of the regular captains were on the deck of either boat,
though both pilots were at their stations ; thaf being near a landing,
the De Soto supposed the Luda was going to stop there, and hence
pursued a different course from what she would if not so suppcsing ;
and that the Luda supposed the De Soro would not stop there, and
hence did got pursue the course she would if believing she was

502

SUPREME COURT.
Waring -t

al. v. Clarke.

about to stop. That both boats in the darkness seemed, till very
near, to believe each other farther off than they in truth were, and
hence did -not use so early the precautions they otherwise might
have done. It is to be remembered, also, that not one of the usual
sources of blame in the adjudged cases existed here clearly on the
part of the De Soto. Some witnesses swear to the De Soto's
having her light hung out, and several, including a passenger, that
if the Luda had not changed her course -unexpectedly, and when
near, she would not have been- struck by the De Soto ; and that
the De Soto, if changing hers, and going lower down than her port,
did so only to round to and lay with -her head up in the customary
manner. Nor was there any racing' between rivals, to the peril of
the vessels and life, which led to the misfortune, and usually deserves condign punishment. Nor was any high speed attempting
for any purpose ; and the movement of the De Soto, though with
the current, is sworn to have been slowest, and hence she was less
bound to look out critically. The Chester, 3 Hag. Ad. 319.
Nor is there any law of admiralty requiring a descending boat on a
river to lie still till an ascending one approaches and passes, though
an attempt was made to show such a usage on the Mississippi, which
was met by counter evidence. Again, the Luda was not at anebor,
so as to throw the duty on the De Soto to avoid her, as is often the
case on the sea-coast. The Girolamo,.3 Hag. Ad. 169; TheEolides;
ibid. 369. Nor was the Luda loaded and the other not, but in ballast
and with a wind, and hence bound not to injure her. The Baron
Holberg, 3 Hag. Ad. 244; The Girolamo, ibid. 173. Nor was
one moved by steam and the other not, and hence the former, being
more manageable, obliged to shun the latter. The Shannon, 2 Hag.
Ad. 173 ;- The Perth, 3 Hag. Ad. 417. Nor is there a rule here,
as in England, issued by the Trinity House in 1840-; and to be
obeyed or considered bad seamanship, that two steamboats approaching, and likely to hit, shall put their helms to port, though the
principle -is a sound one on which it rests. 1 Win. Rob. 274, 275;,
.Zjurist, 380, 999. Under considerations like these, if any blame
rests on the De Soto, and there. may be some, certainly quite as
much seems to belong to the Luda. Neither put the helm to port.
Both boats were in my view too inattentive. Both should have
stopped their engines earlier, till the course and destination of each
other were clearly ascertained ; and both should have shaped their
courses wider from each other, till certain they could pass without
injury. 7 Jurist, 380 ; 8 ibid. 320. The Luda certainly had
more conspicuous lights, though the De Soto is swornnot to have
been without them, and is admitted to have been seen by the Luda
quite half- a mile off, though in the, night: On the contrary, the
movements of the De Soto were slowest, which is a'favorable fact
in such collisions (7 Jurist, 381); though she did not lie by, as she
should have done, under the law of Louisiana, if that was in force,

JANUARY TERM,

1.847.

503

Waring et al. v. Clarke.

and she wished to throw all the risk on "the ascending boat" ; for
throwing that risk so is the only gain by conforming to the statute.
1 Louis. Dig. 528, Art. 3533, by Grimes.
But I do not propose to go more fully into this, as it is not the
point on which I think the 'case should be disposed of. I merely
refer to enough 'to show it is a question of difficulty and doubt
whether the injury did not result from casualty, orn~utual misapprehension and blame, rather than neglect, except in particulars common to both, or at least in some, attached to the plaintiffs, if not so
great, as those in respect. to which the "original defendants erred.
Any fault whatever in the plaintiffs has, it is said in one case, been
held to defeat his actioh. Vanderplank v. Miller, Moody & Malk.
1,39. But in any event, it must influence the damages essentially.
For though, when one vessel alone conducts wrongfully, she alone
must pay all damages to the extent of her value (5 Rob. Ad. 045),
and this agrees with the laws of Wisbuy if the damage be " done on
purpose ". (2 Peters's Ad. 84, 85, App.), and with the laws of,
Oleron (2 ibid. 28) ; yet if both vessels were culpable, the damage
is to be divided either equally between them (3 Hag. Ad. 328,
note ; 4 Adolph. & Ell. 431 ; 9 Car. & P. 613 ; Reeves v. The
Constitution, Gilpin, 579), or they are to be apportioned in some
other more appropriate ratio, looking critically to all the facts.
The Woodrqp-Sims, 2 Dod. Ad. 85; 3 Scott, X. R. 336 ;
3 Man. & G. 59 ; Curtis's Admiralty, 145, note. So in England,
though no damages are given, when there is no blame on the part
of the defendant. The Dundee, 1 -Hag. Ad. 120.; Smith et al. v.
Condry, 1 Howard, 36; 2 Browne's Civ. and Ad. Law, 204.
Yet, by the, laws of Wisbuy, 1 Peters's Ad. 89, App., -" If two
ships strive against one another, and one of them .unfortunately
perishes by the blow, the merchandise that is lost out of both of
theni shall be valued and paid for pro ratd by both owners, and the
damage of the ships shall also be answered for by both according
to their value." Sea Laws, 141. This is now the law in Holland,
and is vindicated by Bynkershoek, so as to cover cases of doubt and
equalize the loss. 2 Browne's Civ. and Ad. Law, 205,.206. So
now on the Continent, where a collision happened between vessels
in the river Elbe, and it was not the result of neglect, the loss was
divided equally. Story's Conflict of Laws, 423 ; Peters et al. v.
Warren Ins. Company, 14 Peters, 99 ; 4 Adolph. & Ell. 420.
Hence, whether we conform to the admiralty law of England on
this point, though refusing to do it on other points, or take the rule
on the Continent.for a guide, the amount of damages allowed in rhis
case is erroneous, if there was any neglect on.the part of the original plaintiffs, or if the collision between the boats was accidental.
Judge DANIEL requested his dissent to the judgment of the
courtto be entered on the record, aiid for reasons concurring generally with those offered by Judgd Woodbury.

504

SUPREME

COURT.

License Cases.-T-hurlow v. Massachusetts.

Mr. Justice GRIER concurred with Mr. Justice Woodbury in
the opinion delivered by him, so far as itrelated to the question of
the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty, and also that the weight of
evidence in this case was against the existence of a tide at the place
of collision, but concurred with the majority of the court that the
De Soto was in fault, and justly holden for the whole loss occasioned by the collision.

SADIUEL THUiL0W, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE COMMONWEALTH OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
JOEL FLETCHER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF REODE ISLAND
AND PROVIDENCE PLANT .TIONS.
ANDREw PEIRCE, JR., AND THOMAS W. PEIRCE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Laws of Massachusetts, providing that no person shall presume to be a retailer or
seller of wine, brandyi rum, or other spirituous liquors, in a less quantity than
twenty-eight gallons, and that delivered and carried away all at one time, unless
he is first licensed as a retailer of wine and spirits, and that nothing in the law
should be so construed as to require the county commissioners to grant any licenses,
when in their opinion the public good does not require them to be granted, Of Rhode Island, forbidding the sale of rum, gin, brandy, &c., in a less quantity
than ten gallons, although in this case the brandy which was sold was duly im.orted from France into the United States, and purchased by the party indicted
from the original importer,Of New Hlampshire, imposing similar restrictions to the foregoing upon licenses,
although in this case the article sold was a barrel of American gin, purchased in
Bostoti and carried coastwise to the landing at Piscataqna Bridge and there sold
in the same barrel,All adjudged to be not inconsistent with any of the provisiow of the constitution
of the United States or acts of Congress under it.

TiHUtsE caseswere all brought up from the respective State courts
by writs of error issued under the twenty-fifthsection of the Judiciary
Act, and were commonly known by the name of the License Cases.

Involving the same question, they were argued together, but by
different counsel. When the decision of the court was pronounced,
it was not'accompanied by any opinion of the court, as such. But
six of the justices gave separate opinions, each for himself. Four

of them treated ihe cases collectively in one opinion, whilst the
remaining two expressed opinions in the cases separately. Hence
it becomes necessary for the reporter to make a statement in each
case, and to postpone the opinions until the completion of all the
statements. The arguments of 6ounsel in each case will of course
follow immediately after the statement in that case. They are
placed in the order in which they are put by the Chief Justice in
his opinion, but where the justices have given separate. opinions in
each case, the order is observed which they themselves have chosen.

