410

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohiv,.

pectedly, which in the nature ef things must have subjected it
to great inconvenience and loss. By the payment, th credit of
the government, as the drawer of the bill, was sustained, and the
eventual liability of. the bank for principal and damages anticipated.
Now, as between individuals, this would entitle the holder of the
bill to the fifteen per cent. damages. And it is equally clear and
just, that the bank should receive the sme. There has been paid
to it by the government the principal, costs of protest, and the
commission charged by Hottinguer & 06t" as the agents of the
bank, who took up the bill, but not one cent has been paid to the
bank for the advance of the money at Paris. On the principles of
equity; independently of the statute, the bank is entitled to the difference in value of the sum paid by it in Paris, and the sum received by it from the government in this country. This -is reexchange, which the fifteen per cent., in my opinion, was intended
to cover. Of this opinion was the court which formerly decided
this case.
I think the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE also dissented from the ppinion of the
court.

Mr. justice WOODBURY, having given an official opinion as
Secretary of the Treasury against the claim of the bank in this
case, did not sit.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and- was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this.court,
that the judgment of the said-Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to that
court to award a venire facias de novo, and fok further proceedings
to be had therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

IALi.tNDA

Fox v. THE

STATE OF OHIO.

The-power conferred upon"Congress by the fifth and sixth clauses of the eighth
sectioti of the first article of the constitution of the United States, viz.: - " To
coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix the standard
of wqig~ts and measures"; "To -providefor 'the punishment of counterfeiting
thp securities uad current coin of the-United States " - does not prevent a
State from passing a law
to punish the offence of circulating counterfeit coin
of the United States. PM

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

411

Fox v. The State of Ohio.
The two offences of ceunterfeiting the coin, and passing counterfeit money, are
essentially different in their characters. The former is an offence directly
against the government, by which individuals may be affected; the latter is a
private
gree, bewrong,
reached.by which the government may be remotely, if it will in any deThe prohibitions contained in the amendments to the. constitution were intended
to be restrictions upon the federal government and not upon the authority of
the States.

THIS case was brought up by a.writ of error, issued under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme Court
of Ohio.
It was an indictment, in the State court, against Malinda Fox,
for "passing and uttering a certain piece of false, base, and counterfeit coin, forged and counterfeited to the likeness and similitude
of the good and legal silver coin currently passing in the State of
Ohio, called a dollar."
Being convicted, the case was taken by her, upon writ of error,
to the court in bank of the State, its highest judicial tribunal ; and
at the December term, 1842, of that court, the judgment of the
Common Pleas was affirmgd.
From this decision of the court in bank the plaintiff in error
brou;ht the case to this court, and claimed a reversal of the judgment, on the ground that the courts of that State ha. no jurisdiction of the offence charged in the indictment, but that the jurisdiction belongs exclusively to the courts of the United States.
The cause was argued by Mr. Convers, for the plaintiff in error,
and ,Mr. Stanberry (Attorney-General of Ohio), for the State.
The opening and closing arguments of Ml/r. Convers, for the
plaintiff in error, have been consolidated, and will be found after
that of Mr. Stanberry.
M. Stanberry made the following points :
-1. That the offence charged in the indictment is not for uttering
any counterfeit of the coin of the United States, or of any foreign
coin regulated by Congress, or made, current money of the Uhited
States.
2. That, if it should be held that the coin so passed was a counterfeit of any of the current coin of the United States, that 'for the
mere offence of uttering there is no jurisdiction in the courts of the
United States, but it exclusively belongs to the courts of ihe State.
I East's Pleas of the Crown, 162 ; 1 Hale's P. C. 19, 188 ; 1
Hawk. P. C. 20.
3. That if not exclusive, the jurisdiction of State courts is concurrent with those of the United States. Federalist, No. 32
Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 31 ; State v. Antonio, 3 Wheeler's
C. C. 508 ; State v. Tutt, 2 Bailey, 44 - Chess v. State, 1 Blackford, 198 ; White v. Commonwealth, 4 Bin. 418.
1. The first question which arises upon the transcrip is as to the

412

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

character of- the piece of coin which the plaintiff in error has been
convicted of passing. It seems to be taken for granted by her
counsel, that it was a counterfeit of sohae-piece of coin which, urder
the laws of Congress, has been made current money of the United
States. The only description given is) that it wasa piece of coin
in the similitude of the good and legal silver coin, currently passing
in'the State of Ohio, called a dollar.
The silver coins which have been made current by acts of Congress are the following :All silver coins of the coinage of the mint of the United States ;
Spanish milled dollars ;" Spanish pillar dollars ; French crowns ;
the five-franc pieces ; and the dollars of Mexico, Peru, and Bolivia.
The Congress of the United States, in the.exercise of the power
to coin money and regulate its value and the value of foreign coin,
has not seen fit to regulate the value of any other foreign silver coins
than those above mentioned. The -power to punish offences respecting the coin, vested in Congress by the sixth clause of the
eighth section of the first article of the constitution of the United
States, is limited to the counterfeitng of the current coin of the
lUnited States. No c6in can be said to be current coin of the
United States but that which has been made so by actual coinage
at the mint, or by some act of Congress regulating its value.
Here, then, is a power given, in the most unlimited terms, to regulate the value of all foreign coins, and to make them current money
of the Union ; and a further pbwer to punish the counterfeiting of
the coin so made-current. Obviously the power of punishment, in
other words, the jurisdiction over offences against the coin, is limited to the currency so established. The power to punish arises
out of the exercise-of the power to regulate. Does it then appear
that the piece of coin, which the plaintiff in error was convicted of
passing, was a counterfeit of any of the coins so made current by
Congress ?
There is no term of the description given of this coin which can
be relied upon as bringing it within the coin made current by Congress, except the words " good and legal silver coin." Now, if
that description of the coin can only refer to the national currency,
and could only be satisfied by proof that the counterfeit dollar was
in the similitude of an American, Mexican,, Pezuvian, or Bolivian
dollar, all which are established by act of Congress" then it would
be sufficient.
No such limited signification can-be given to these words. If the
averment was "good and legal silver coin of the United States,"
it would be different ; but it is "good and legal silver- coin, currently passing in the State of Ohio."
But there is a certain test of the meaning of this descrilitive allegation, and that is, to inquire whdthet a. conviction undL this in-

JANUARY

TERM,, 1847

413

Fox r. The State of Ohio.

dictment could hve been had, upon proof of Passing a. counterfokt
in the simiitftdFf .any of the foreign silver coins of the denomination of a dollar not nmde part of our national currency by act of
Congress.
- In order to this, we must look at the statute of Ohio creating the
offence, as well as at the indictment.
The words of the statute are :- " That if any person shall
counterfeit any of the coins of gold, silver, or copper, currently
passing in this State, or shall alter or put off counterfeit coin or
coins, knowing them to be such," &c. 29 Ohio Stat. 136.
There can be no question- iat this provision covers every description. of coin, domestic and foreign, whether made current by
act of Congress or not. Take, then, the case of passing a counterfeit of a German dollar, which is a description of coin not made
current by act of Congress, and what difficulty would be in the way
of a conviction under this statute and indictment.
It may be claimed, by the plaintiff in error, that the words 1"good
and legal silver coin currefltly passing in the State of Ohio," though
not used in the statute, 'yet make- a descriptive averment of some
coin made legal or current by act of Congress. If that be so,
there is no question that the averment, though unnecessarily made,
must be proved, uporn the familiar doctrine that all merely descriptive allegations become-material.
Now., these words, " good and legal coin,' are not found in that
clause" of the constitution which gives to Congress the power to
regulate the coin, or in the other clause which provides for the punishment of counterfeiting ; but the descriptive words there used are
"current coin of the United Staes. n These last are the operative
words which distinguish the national coin from the mass of the currency.
It may be argued, that legal coin can only mean current coi n of
the United States, as none other is legal. That is true in one
sense.- If we were new engaged in the cunstruction of a contract
to pay money, in which the payment was stipulatea to be made in
good and legal coin, the meaning undoubtedly would be current coin
of the United States ; for it is only that sort of coin which can discharge a contract to pay money, or which is a legal tender in payment. But we are not now looking for the meaning'of these words
as used in a contract, but in an indictment for passing counterfeit
money. Coin, which may not be legal for the payment of a debt,
may yet be legal as at currency; although not regulated in value by
act of Congress, it is yet lawful as a circulation. It seems to me
there can be no question that the latter is the true sense in which
these words are used in the indictment, especially when we take the
whole sentence, - "1 good and legal silver coin currently passing in
-the State of Ohio" ; and that, instead of being descriptive of a
particdlar coiPage, they are merely descriptive of the genuineness
35 *

414

SUPREME

COURT.

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

and lawfulness Df the original which has been counterfeited, and are
put in oposition to the other words used in the indictment, -to -express exactly the contrary.
"forged, base, aid counterfeit,"
2. The constitution authorizes Congress "to provide for the
puishment of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the
United States."
The plaintiff in error has been convicted of passing a counterfeit
dollar. I *claim, that though it be admitted this coin was of the
current coin of the United States, yet the offence of uttering or
passing it is not an offence cognizable by the United States.
This leads to a consideration of the meaning of the term "1counterfeiting," as used in the constitution. it is claimed for the plaintiff 'in error that it is a generic term, and includes every offence in
relation to the coin.
This clause does not carry with it a power to define and punish
the offence, as is the case in the clause in relation to piracies and
felonies committed on the high seas,'but is strictly limited to the
punishment of an offence named and designated. The consequence
is, that, in the absence of any grant of power to define or enlarge,
the jisdiction of the United States is to be confined to the very
offence so named, - the offence of counterfeiting. What, then, is
the meaning of this term, as tised in the constitution ? It is no-'
where defined in the constitution, itself, so that we are to find its
At the time the constitution was framed, the
meaning elsewhere.
offence of counterfeiting was well known and certainly defined ;
and in that country from which it was adopted; it stood among the
class of crimes which amounted to high treason..
It was never understood that the offence of counterfeiting the
coin of England, and the offence of passing coin so counterfeited,
were the same. On the contrary, they were carefully distinguished
and defined ; the one amounting to treason, the other to simple felony or misdemeanour.
Speaking of the English statutes against this species of treason,
Mr. East, in his Pleas of the Crown, vol. 1, p. 162, says:-" It
is first to be seen what is a coonterfeiting within these statutes.
There must be an actual counterfeiting, either by the party himself
or by, those with whom he conspires. A mene attempt to counterfeit, such as preparing the materials or fashioning the metal, is not
sufficient, except in those particular instances. which have been so
declared by statute."
So, toi5, in Hale's Pleas of the Crown. (p. 19):-" What shall be
a counterfeiting ? Clipping, washing, and filing of the money, for
lucre or gain, any of the proper money -of the realm, or of other
realms, allowed to be current by proclamation, not within this statute, butmade high treason by Stat. 5 Eliz., but no corruption of'
blood or loss of dower., Impairing, dimiinishing, falsifying, scaling,
or lightening the proper money of this realn, or the money of any

JANUARY

TER:M, 1847.

415

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

other realm made current by proclamation, thei, counsellors, coftsenters, and aiders, within neither of the former, but made treason
by the statute of 1.8 Eliz., but without corruption of blood or loss
of dower."
Several of these modes of debasing the coin were not understood
to be within the- common law offence of counterfeiting ; for it is
said by Hale, in reference to the statute against clipping the coin,
that it was "introductive of new laws."
1 Hawkins's P. "(. 20, is-yet closer to the point. "High treason, respecting the coin, is either with respect to counterfeiting the
king's
or branch
withrespect
to bringing false
money into
realm.
As to coin,
the first
of counterfeiting,
it is declared,
by the
25 Ed.
3,
be
shall
he
money,
king's
the
man.2counterfeit
a
if
uthat,
c. 2,
gultyto what degree
amountoftohigh
counterfeiting will
high treason.'
treason, it As
is said that those whoofcoin
money
the king's authority are guilty of high
treason within this
act, without
whether they utter it or not ; and that those who have the king's, authority to coin money are .guilty of tigh treason if they make it of
baser alloy than they ought; and that those also are guilty of the
same crime, who receive and comfort one who is known by them
to be guilty thereof ; but that clippers, &c., are not within the.
statute• But it seems that those who barely utter false money
made within this realm, knowing it to he false, are neither guilty
of high treason, nor of a misprision thereof, but only of a high misprils bin."
Further, in 1 East's Pleas of the Grown, p. 178, under the title,
"Receiving, uttering or tendering of counterfeit coin," it is said
" These may amount to different degrees of offence, according
to the circumstances. If A. counterfeit the gold or silver coin cur-.
rent, and by agre ree b
e such counterfeiting B is to receive
and vent the money, he is an aider and abettor to the act itself of
counterfeiting, and consequently a priiicipal traitor within the law."
" But if he had merely vented the money for his own benefit,
knowing it to be
in fraud of any person,
false,be was only liable
to be punished as for a cheat and misdemeanour, before the statute
15 Geo. 2, hereafter mentioned ; yet, if'he then knev ' by whom it
was counterfeited, it might be evidence of his concealment of the
treason, and-therefore a misprision of the same. In like manner, I
have before shown that the statutes against the iCwportation of false
money do not extend to the receivers, not having taken any part in
the briing in of such money."
These authorities show conclusively that the term " counterfeiting has had a l6ng and well-established meaning; that it is confined to the act of making or debasing;ta tathose only are gult
who are engaged in the act, either as principals or abettors; and
that the mere uttering of the false money so manufactured by another belongs to another and lowe r class of offences.

416

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

Now, how can it be said that this term is used in the constitution in any new or enlarged sense, as nomen generalissimum, including the passing, vending, receiving, and unlawful possession of
false coin, as well as the making and unlawful possession of the instruments for counterfeiting, and all the other like offences which
are found in the criminal laws of the several States,? If we give
this term its meaning at the common law, or its more enlarged
existence at the adoption of
signification in the English statutes in.
the constitution, it will not include any of these lesser offences.
It is certainly to be understood that the learned men who framed
the constitution were well advised of the true meaning of this term,
and if they intended to use it in any new sense, that intention would
have been expressed.
But I think it quite clear, not only from the use of a well-known
term, hut from the nature of the thing, that it was used expressly according to that meaning.
This criminal jurisdiction was given to the United States in aid
of its duty to coiD money and regulate'its value.
The coining and legitimation of money are prerogatives of the
sovereign power. (I Hale, 188.) The laws of England vest
this power inthe king ; and, to secure it, they declare that the offence of counterfeiting alone shall amount to. high treason. It was
not found expedient or necessary to guard this royal prerogative
by making any lesser offence touching the coin a matter of lese
majestie.
The constitution of the United States very wisely vests the
same prerogative in the federal government ;"and, following the
English laws, it vests along with the prerogative the power to
punish the single offence, which in England was found to be the
most dangerous invasion of the power. The prerogative is to coin
good money, and regulate its value, aud the offence is to coin bad
money, and impair the value of the good. The power to punish is
simply given in aid of the prerogative, and goes no further than the
offence which directly and necessarily impairs it.
3. If the court should be against the defendant in error upon the
foregoing points, we are next to consider the more imp-ortant question, Whether the States have jurisdiction over offences against the
current coin of the United States.
Such a jurisdiction, if not indispensable, is to the last degree useful and expedient. And it has been exercised almost, if not.quite,
universally by the different States which compose the Union. The
rightfulness of this, jurisdiction is now, for the first time, questioned
in this court. Certainly it presents a question of the first magnitude,
for no 6ne can foresee what may be the consequences of taking
from the States the power of sef-protecion, which they-.hav&e so
'long exercised, against a class of criminals-swarming over the entire
Union, and against a species of crime whicli,, more than any other
affects the common business of the people.

JANUARY TERM,

1847.

417

Fox v. The State of Ohio.-

The argument against the exercise of this jurisdiction by the
States proceeds upon the ground that it exclusively.belofigs to the
courts of the United States, and that it arises out of the provisions
of the constitution giving to Congress the power to -coin moneX,
regulate its value and the value of foreign coin, and to punish the
counterfeiting of the current coin of the United States ; and out of
the exercise of these -powers by Congress in the enactment of laws
regulating the coin, and providing punishment for the offence of
counterfeiting.
The question is smply' one of criminal jurisdiction over an offence cognizable in every State of the Union, either at the common law or by virtue of State legislation.
It is clear, in the first place, that this branch of criminal jurisdiction belonged to the States, resp'ectively, before the adoption of
the constitution ; and that it continues with them, unless it has
been wholly surrendered to the federal government. It is also
clear, that there is no express prohibition in the constitution to the
exercise of thii jurisdiction by the States. The exclusion of State
jurisdiction is argued from' the fact that the constitution vests a
jurisdiction over this offence in the United States, by authorizing
Congress. to pass laws for its punishment, which jurisdiotion, it is
said, must necessarily be exclusive. We deny this inference, and
claim that the jurisdiction may be concurrent.
The mere grant of a power in the constitution has never been
held to divest the States of the power so granted. Th6re must be
something more ; either a prohibition, a grant in exclusive terms, or
a manifest incompatibility.
Take, for instance, the power to levy taxes. This is granted in
the constitution, but no one has ever supposed that thereby the
States divested themselves of this power. So, too, in the.clause
granting to Congress the power to coin money ; inasmuch as this
power existed in. the States as independent sovereignties, it would
have remained in them, notwithstanding the grant, if, by a separate
clause, it had not been expressly prohibited to them.
This express prohibition against the coinage of money by the
States, which follows the grant of the power in the constitution, affords a cogent argument against any implied prohibition of jurisdiction: over offences against the coin. The prohibition was not left to
inference, but was expressly stated. It is, therefore, a legitimate
argument against a like prohibition of the criminal jurisdiction, that
it is not also expressed.
There are undoubtedly powers granted in the constitution which
are necessarily exclusive, though not expressly prohibited to the,
States. The power to establisb uniform rules for naturalization, to
regulate the value of foreign coin, to fix the standard of weights and
measures, -all these are necessarily exclusive ; for there could be no
regulation, uniformity, or fixed standard, if each State were allowed
to legislate upon these subjects.

418

SUPREME COURT.
Fox r. The State of Ohio.

In respect of -such powers as are -not necessarily exclusive, but
which it was deemed expedient to withdraw altogether from State
jurisdiction, it will be found that an express and cautious prohibition
accompanies the grant. This is so as to tjhe power to lay duties, to
coin money' to enter into treaties, to declare war, to emit bills of
credit, and to-maintain armies or navies in time of peace. It can
be said of-nearly all those powers, with infinitely more force than as
to the mere power of criminal jurisdiction now in question, that they
are essentially of a national character, and that the exclusion ofState authority might have been left to inference. Why, then, if a
prohibitioti of criminal jurisdiction was intended, was it not also expressed-?- Why expressly prohibit, with respect to powers of sch
a character, and omitf the prohibition as to a power much less
obvious to a prohibition by implication ?
In the. absence, then, of exclusive grant and express prohibition,
the plaintiff in error has no ground to stand upon, unless she makes
out a case of repugnancy or incompatibility.
I think it is quite evident that, if this power is lost to the States
on this doctrine of incompatibility, the loss is altogether fortuitous,
and not the result of intention ; and that, consequently, such a loss
ought not to obtain, except from the most rontrolling neaessity.
Indeed, that is true of all the exclusive p, wers claimed for the federal government on this ground.
The true doctrine is found in the thirty-second number of the
Federalist, and is stated as follows :" An etitire consolidation of the States into one complete national sovereignty would imply an entire subordination of the parts ;
and whatever power miglt remain in them would be altogether
dependent on the general will. But as the plan of the convention
aims only at a partial union or consolidation, the State governments
w6uld clearly retain all the rights of sovereignty which they before
had, and which were not, by that act, exclusively delegated to Congress. This exclusive delegation, or rather this alienation of State
sovereignty, would only exist in three cases; where the constitution
in express terms granted an exclusive authority to the Union ; where
it granted, in one instance, an authrity to the Union, and in another prohibited the States from exercising the like authority ; and
where it granted an authority to the Union, to which a similar authority in the States would be absolutely and totally contradictory
and repugnant: I use these terms to distinguish this last case from
another, which might appear to resemble it, but which would, in
fact, be essentially different ; I mean, where the exercise of a concurrent jurisdiction might be productive of occasional interferences
in the policy of any branch of administration, but would not. imply
any direct contradiction, or repugnancy, in point of-constitutional
authority."
It very clearly appears,-from this exposition of the powers of the

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

419

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

general government and of the States, that there may be an exercise
of concurrent jurisdiction in.the case of a granted power ; that
the mere grant works no exclusion of State sovereignty, even
where its concurrent exercise may lead to occasional interference in
the policy of either government, and that nothing short of absolute
and total repugnancy and contradiction will suffice.
And now what is there in the exercise of this criminal jurisdiction by the States, which makes it so absolutely repugnant to the
exercise of the same jurisdiction by the general government ? I
have heard nothing urged which amounts to more than an argument
of expediency or convenience, or that shows any thing beyond a
liability to " occasional interference."
And, in truth, these arguments from inconvenience are more
fanciful than real ; for the experience of forty years, during whih
there has been a concurrent exercise of this jurisdiction, has not
furnished a solitary instance of collision or practical inconvenience.
It is said the criminal may be subjected to a double prosecution
by this concurrent jurisdiction, and that the conviction or acquittal
inone tribunal will not bar a prosecution in the other. This admits
of serious question. The doctrine of criminal proceedings and
senten~es, between govnemments that are essentially foreign to, and
independent of, each othe,,cannot apply, in.full force, between the
United States and one of the States, in respect-of an offence committed within the limits of one of the States, and which is prohibited as well by the laws of the .Union and of the particular
State.
It is baid.by Mr. Justice Washington, in Houston v. Moore, 5
Wheat. 31, that,.in cases of concurrent criminal jurisdiction between
the general government and the States, the sentence of either court
may be pleaded in bar inthe other, in like manner as the judgment
in a civil suit. Crimes have reference to place, and are necessarily
confined to territorial limits. It follows from this that a crime committed in ond State cannot be cognizable in another, either for the
purposes of trial and punishment, and that the result of the prosecution, either of acquittal or conviction, is necessarily confined to the
territorial limits of the State. It has even been held that a conviction for an infamous offence in one of the States, which works a
.personal disqualification in the State where the conviction is had, is
of no force in another State. Commonwealth v. Green, 17 Mass.
R. 515.
The doctrine, it seems to me, does not apply to an offence committed in the body of a State, which is at the same time ariinfraction of federal and State law. It is not as to either, in regard to
territorial limits, a foreign qffence, except when committed in some
fort, arsenal, dock-yard, or other place lying within any State over
which the sole jurisdiction has been surrendered by the State to the
general government. Such places no longer belong to the States,

420

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

and are as essentially foreign to them, for all purposes of local jurisdiction, as if they were situate in another State.
The objection founded on the power of pardon vested in the two
executives is also made to the concurrent jurisdiction. It is said,
by the exercise of this power either government may obstruct the
due administration of the criminal laws of the other. This is not to
be intended, even if it should be granted that .a pardon by either
would expiate the offence against both. , Arguments founded on a
supposed abuse'of power are most unsatisfactory. In point of fact,
no sdch abuse has yet arisen, nor is it likely to arise ; for both
governments are deeply concerned in the prevention of this sort of
crime, and the State much more than the federal government.
But if it were admitted that the concurrent jurisdiction involved
a liability to a double prosecution, or that there was probability of
interference .by the exercise of the pardoning power, these results
would not divest the States of this portion of their sovereignty.
We must look for that in the constitution, - in the terms of the
grant ; and if the surrender is not found there, it is not to be tiken
from the States, merely on the ground of occasional interference or
collision.
The double proseuution never can extend to cases of life and
limb, for that is forbidden, as well to the States as to the general
government, by the fifth article of the amendments to the constitution. There is no constitutional difficulty in the wa'- of a double
prosecution, involving merely imprisonment or fine, or any other
punishment short of life or limb. Indeed, there are many cases of
admitted concurrent jurisdiction which lead'to ihis result. Such is
the case of a soldier of the United States who commits a crime in
the body of a State, and not within a place over which the United
States possess exclusive jurisdiction. He is unquestionably liable
to prosecution.and punishment, as well in the State courts as before
a court-martial of the United States. So, too, the same offence
may be punished by impeachment by the United States, and prosecution in the local criminal tribunals.
Indeed, in the ordinary administration of criminal law by the
respective States, it may happen that what at the common law is
considered, and is in fact, but one offence, may be punished in
two States. This is so in respect of goods stolen in one State and
carried into another. .Very many of the States take jurisdiction of
the offence, by reason of the mere asportation of the goods int6
their territory, and not one of them allows the plea of acquittal or
conviction of the larceny in .the State where the theft was committed, except, perhaps, the State of New York.
It is not pretended, on the part of the plaintiff in error, that there
has been any decision of the question at bar by this court. Reliance
is had. upon a solitary decision by the Supreme Court of one of the
States, in which State jurisdiction has been denied. This is the
case of Mattison v. Missouri, 3 Misso. Rep. 421.

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

421

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

That case, instead of e9tablishing a ruie, stands as a remarkable
exception to the universal practice of the courts of all the other
States. If it were necessary to say more, it might be added, that
the force of its authofity is weakened by a strong dissenting opinion
of one of the judges, and that it does not appe.ar to have been followed, or at all
relied upon,. in, a subsequent case before the same
court. State v. Shoemaker, 7 Alisso. Rep. 177.
In most of the States, this branch of concurrent jurisdiction has
constantly been exercised without question, an& in those States in
which it has been drawn into question the decisions have fully sustained the jurisdiction. State v. Antonio, 3 Wheeler, C. C. 508 ;
State v. Tutt, 2 Bailey, 44 ; Chess v. -State, 1 Blackford, 198;
White v. Commonwealth, 4 Bin. 418.
Another argument in favor of concurrent criminal jurisdiction is
found in the fact, that in every general law passed by Congress on
the subject of crimes, this power in the States has been recognized
by a provision very similar to that contained in the twenty-sixth
section of the act now in force. That section is in these words :" That nothing in this act contained shall be construed to deprive
the courts of the individual States of jurisdiction, under the laws of
the several States, over offences made punishable by this act,' 4
Statutes at Large, 121.
I admit that Congress cannot confer jurisdiction upon the State
courts, and that this provision could not give the power if it be surrendered in the constitution. It is not in that view that this section
helps out the State juiisdiction, but merely as a long-continued
exposition of the opinion of Congress tbat such jurisdiction exists,
and has not been surrendered.
Furthermore, this section quite overcomes any argument to be
derived from the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, which provides, that the Circuit Courts of the! United States shall have
exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable under
the authority of the United States, except where that act, or the
laws of the United States, shall otherwise provide. I Statutes at
Large, 78.
It is claimed for the plaintiff in error, that this provision in favor
of State jurisdiction ought to be limited to a jurisdiction under the
laws of the States in force at the time of its enactment ; and as
the law of Ohio, under'which this prosecution was had, has been
enacted -subsequently, it cannot be helped by the provision.
The case of the United States v. Paul, 6 Peters, 141, is relied
upon as establishing this distinction.
That case was a prosecution in the Circuit Court of the United
States, for an offence committed at West Point, a place within the
exclusive, jurisdiction of the United States. No question of concurrent jurisdiction could arise, for in such places the jurisdiction
of the United States is exclusive. The prosecution was for an
VOL. V.
36

422

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

offence not defined in the criminal code of the United States, and
was had under the pi ovisions of the third section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1825, .which provides, that all crimes committed
in places within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,
which crimes are not defined by any law of the United States, shall
he punished in the same manner in which such crimes are punished
hy the laws of the particular State. The offence was one not made
punishable by the laws of New York when the act of 1825 was
passed, and the only question was, whether the jurisdiction of the
United States should be limited to such offences as were then
defined by the State legislation. This court held, that the jurisdiction should be so limited.
The distinction between the question there made and the one at
bar is obvious. The third section of the act of 1825 .adopted the
entire criminal code of the States, as to all crimes other than those
specifically enumerated in the body of the act. This was a code
of criminal law for the regulation of all persons within the places
under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and it was
precisely equivalent to an enactment by Congress 6f every offence
then constituting the criminal codes of the States. No laws or
offences were adolited into this code of the United States but those
then in existence. To bring a subsequent 'State law or a new
offence into this code would require a further adoption, or a new
enactment by Congress. It could not otherwise be made the law
for the exclusive place, for it would work the greatest injustice to
persons within such place to make them liabre to new offences,
created by a foreign jurisdiction, not in any way provided for or
established by the laws under which they lived.
Now, with regard to the provision for concurrent jurisdiction by
State courts, under the twenty-sixth section, there is no reason for
a limitation to such laws as were in force at the time of the passage
of the act. The subsequent laws could only operate upon persons
within the jurisdiction in which they were enacted, and bound in
every sense to obey them.
The plaintiff in error also relies upon the case of Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 539. The doctrine declared in that case
is, that, as to fugitives from labor, the jurisdiction of the United
States is exclusive, and that no State can exercise any jurisdiction
even favorable to the right secured by the constitution.
There is perhaps nothing in the clause of the constitution upon
that subject which amounts to an express exclusion of State jurisdiction, and yet the peculiar nature of the subject leads to that result.
The reclamation of fugitives is ,essentially a national subject, and
matter of international law and treaty stipulations between independent sovereignties. It was therefore proper to provide for it in
our constitution, and the provision is so made as to execute itself
without the aid of any legislation. Besides, this provision is not so

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

42.3

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

much in the character of a grant or surrender of power, as of a
compromise or treaty between the States, securing to a portion of
the States an important and delicate right against all subsequent
interference. In this compromise the federal government is alone
vested with all: jurisdiction over the subject, and neither of the
States can, by the exercise of any jurisdiction or power, change or
impair the right so secured. It is wholly withdrawn from State
sovereignty.
I have now considered the arguments for t'he plaintiff in error
against the exercise of concurrent jurisdiction. They have been
shown to be all founded in supposed inconvonience. In conclusion, I must ask the attention of the court tc some of the consequences which must follow a denial of this juri!sdiction.
The criminal code of the United States is made up of a few
sections, and defines hut a few offences. Except in places under
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, it has a very limited
operation ; and as to such places, it adopts for their government
the criminal code of the particular State in which they happen to be
situate. It establishes no rules for criminal procedure, other than
by some general adoption of the State laws and practice. There
is no local magistracy in the several States appointed to take the
initiative in prosecutions ; and the courts of the United States,
sitting in one place, and at long intervals, are badly accommodated
.to the administration ot xniminal law. Besides all this, the federal
government does not possess a jail or penitentiary out of the District of Columbia or its Territories.
Now, to say nothing of other crimes, if it be held that the offence
of counterfeiting includes the long list of crimes which have relation
to spurious coin, and that jurisdiction over all of them is wholly
withdrawn from the States, any one'can see that the consequences
must be most disastrous. There is not a class of crime so common,
nor a class of offenders so dexterous, and requiring so much a local
vigilance. What speed could be made by the marshal of such a
State as Ohio, and his"deputy, the only executive officers in that
State bound to act in arresting and bringing to justice these offenders, carrying on their business in the eighty counties "of the State ?
If it be said that the State magistrates, sheriffs, and constables may
act, - a matter by the way of grave doubt, especially as to judicial
action, -yet no one pretends that they are bound to act'; you relieve them from the obligation to act under State law the instAnt
you oust the State jurisdiction.
And what is to be done with this class of criminals now convicted in State courts, and undergoing their punishment in the
penitentiaries of the States ? If this branch of jurisdiction does not
1 elong to the States, their sentences are nullities, and all these
felons
mustarebe some
released.
IThese
of the arguments .from inconvenience, from
a

424

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

denial of this salutary jurisdiction to the States ; and they far outweigh all like arguments which have been urged for the plaintiff in
error.
rf. Convers, in reply, for the plaintiff in error.
The whole subject-matter of the coin -its
creation, regulation,
its protection -is
vested exclusively ii the federal government
(Constitution of U. S., art. 1, §§ 8, 20). That the right to coin
money is exclusively inCongress is conceded ; for not dnly is the
power to coin expressly granted by the constitution, but the exercise of the coining power by the States is expressly prohibited.
This exclusive power of creation would, of itself, upon'all sound
principles of construction, carry with it the right of regulating and
of protecting the thing when created, even in the absence of express grant to regulate and protect. But as the right of coinage is
one of the highest attributes of sovereignty, the constitution, for the
-purpose of shutting out all controversy between the fedeial and
State goverrnments touching so delicate and important a power, proceeds, not from the necessity of the thing, but ex abundanti"cauteld,
to prohibit coining by the .States, - preferring that the exclusive
right of the federal government to this greit prerogative power should
not rest. upon construction alone, however clear and necessary might
be the implication in favor of 'its exclusive claim. * The prohibition
against the exercise of this power by the States was therefore inserted in the constitution.
So with respect to the right to punish an injury to the coin of
the United States, - the right to preserve it and make it subserve
the great purpose 'ofits creation, - this is a necessary incident to
the power to create, and as the chief power is exclusive, so is this
power to preserve the coin and make it available also" exclusive ;
for the incident follows and partakes of the charac.er of its .princi'pal. Notwithstanding this incidental power thus results, by necessary implication, as an exclusive power, it was prudent not to leave
it to construction, clear as that is ; but, in a matter of which the
people were so jealous as of the exercise of criminal, jurisdiction
by the federal government, to declare in express terms the right to
punish.
The legislative power over the subject being exclusive, it follows
that the judicial power of the United States over the same thing is
also exclusive. In all governments, the judicial is coextensive with
the legislative power. They are coexistent and coessential ele-'
ments of government. The courts of the 'States, therefore, have
no jurisdiction over offences'against the coin.
The constitution declares that the judicial power shall extend to
"all cases arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the
This is a grant of exclusive jurisdiction. It exUnited States."
tends to all cases arising under the laws of the United States. It

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

425

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

is clearly exclusive ; for the constitution, after declaring that the
judicial power shall extend to "all cases" of certain descriptions,
and proceeding to provide for other cases, in which it is admitted
the jurisdiction is concurrent, drops, ex industria, the word " all,"
and declares that it shall extend to " controversies between citizens
of different States," &c.; thus leaving, in the cases last enumerated, concurrent jurisdiction with the States. The distinction upon
which the constitution proceeds in this respect is a clear and intelligible one. Where the federal jurisdiction is made to depend upon
the subject-matter, the constitution extends it to " all cases" grow-

ing out of such subject-matter, and makes it exclusive.

Where it

depends, not upon the subject-matter, but upon the character of the
parties, it is simply declared to extend to "controversies 1 between
certain parties, not to " all cases" or to " all controversies"
between them, and the jurisdiction is not exclusive, but concurrent
with a like jurisdiction in the State tribunals.
Now, it has repeatedly been decided that the State courts cannot
take jurisdiction of a prosecution for an offence against an act of
Congress, or for the recovery of a penalty for the violation of any
of the penal laws of the United States. Commonwealth v. Feely, 1 Virginia Cases, 321 ; Jackson v. Rose, 2 ibid. 34 ; United
States v. Lathrop, 17 Johns. 4 ; Haney v. Sharp, I Dana, 442;
Eli v. Peck, 7 Connect. R. 244 ; Davison v. Champlin, ibid.;
State v. McBride, 1 Rice's So. Car. R. 400 ; Mathison v. Missouri, 4 Missouri R. 4.21. From these authorities it follows, that
Congress has no right to confer judicial power, touching its own
proper, legislation, upon State tribunali. They are not "ordained
Their judges are not imenable to
and established by Congress."
Congress. They hold, in many of the States, by a different tenure
of office from that declared by the federal constitution. The judicial power of the United States is declared to extend to all cases
arising under the laws of the United States, and is expressly vested
in the Supreme Court and such other tribunals as Congress may ordain and establish (art. 3, § 1).
It is true, that, in some of the cases just cited, it is said that the
State tribunals, although not bound to take the jurisdiction tendered
by Congress, yet may, if they see proper to do so, assume it. This
cannot be. The question is one of power under the constitution,
not of discretion.
Now, under the constitution, Congress has or has not the power
to transfer jurisdiction to the courts of the States. If it have the
puwer, then it is the duty of the States to receive and exercise the
jurisdiction ; for, in. the peculiar relations subsisting between the
general and State governments, the right on the part of Congress
to transfer jurisdiction implies the corresponding duty on the part
of'the States to receive it. Right and duty, used in reference to
the general and State governments, are correlative terms.- If
36 *

426

SUPREME"COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

it be not the duty of the States to take upon themselves the jurisdiction, when directed so to do by Congress, it is not the right of
Congress to confer it.
This view of the subject accords with the contemporaneoug construction of -the constitution afforded by the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act of 1790 (1 Stat. at Large, 78), which provides
that "1the'Circuit Courts of the United States shall have exclusive
cognizance of all crimes and off6nces cognizable under the authority
of the United States, except where that act or -the laws of the
United States shall otherwise provide." The latter part of this
provision has reference to the cases as to which that act or the laws
of the United States may provide that some other court of the
United States (not State court) shall have cognizance, instead of
the Circuit Court. •It countenances no such thing as giving to the
State tribunals cognizance of these crimes and offences.
The twenty-sixth section of the Crimes Act of March 3d, 1825
(4 Stat. at Large, 122), relied upon by the defendant in error, is
only a saving of jurisdietion to the States, under the laws thereof,
over offences made punishable by that act. It does not profess to
confer jurisdiction, but oply to leave with the States any jurisdiction
which, under their laws; they might rightfully have. That act assumed to exercise bver the offences therein declared all the jurisdiction rightfully belonging to the United States, under the constitution and by the twenty-sixth section, to guard against encroaching
upon the rights of the States.
But if this section of the act of 1825 did expressly provide that
jurisdiction should be vested in State courts over offences made
cognizable by that act, it would clearly be void; for, as already
shown, Congress hs no power to delegate judicial power to the
State courts. If it be intended to authorize the State legislatures
to make laws to be enforced in their own courts for the punishment
of the same offences punishable by that act, Congress transcended
its powers in thus attempting to assign to the States the power of
legislation, which, by the constitution, is vested in Congress itself.
The legislative power of Congress is not an assignable commodity.
The federal government is not an original, but derivative governmnent of delegated and limited, not original, powers. Its powers,
both legislative and judicial, are vested in itself, to be exercised by
itself, -not to be transferred to others, - delegatus non est delegare.
Whether, then, the saving in the 26th section of the act of 1825
were intended to apply only to the exercise of judicial power by the
State court over the particular " offences made punishable by that
act," where the laws of the States required their courts to take cognizance of offences against the :aws of the United States, in cases
where Congress so directs, or, what would be more objectionable,
to authorize the States to legislate for the punishment of the identical
offences made punishable by, the akt of Congress, and to enfrrce

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

427

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

such laws in the State forum, it is in either case alike unconstitutional and void.
But it is said, that, admitthig that the power to punish the offence
of counterfeiting is an exclusive power, being expressly granted
to the United States, yet that the power to punish the passing of
counterfeit coin does not, belong to Congress, or if it possess such
power at all, it holds if concurrently with the States. In support
of this, it is urged that whilst the constitution expressly invests Congress with power to punish the offence of counterfeiting, it is silent
as to the right to punish the uttering of false coin.
Indeed, the argument -of the counsel for the defendant in error
goes to the extent of denying to the general government the Tight to
punish at all the offence of passing counterfeit money. But the
argument cannot be sustained. The power to, punish the offence
of uttering is essential to enable Congress to protect its coinage,
and to make it available. The circulation of the base intryferes
with that of the genuine coin. It discredits it by casting suspicion
upon it. The law of self-protection gives to Congress the right to
provide against the uttering and passing of the counterfeit.
It is said, however, that technically there is a distinction between
the crime of counterfeiting and uttering. That the former is of
higher grade; that in England it is denounced as high treason,
while the latter is regarded as a misdemeanour. But this was not so
at common law. It is only in virtue of certain acts, of Parliament,
expressly declaring that counterfeiting should be regarded as treason
against the crown, and punished as such, -leaving the kindred
crimes of uttering, as all offences against the coin originally were,
misdemeanours only. Blackstone, in- his Commentaries (vol 4, pp.
88, 89), says, that there is no foundation in reason for the distinction created by the British statutes.
From the fact, that, at the time of the adoption of the constitution, this distinction obtained in' England, although only in virtue of
statutes of that realm, and with no reason to justify it, the counsel
for the defendant in error claims that the power given to Congress
to punish " counterfeiting" must be taken as restricted to that which
was declared high treason in England, ond does nct extend, therefore, to any of the offences which grow out of counterfeiting, and are
necessarily incident to it.
-This argument cannot be sustained. The reasoning by which it
is attempted to support it is too artificial to be applied to such an
instrument as the constitution, - the organic law of a great nation, which deals only in generals, and cannot, from its nature, be expected to descend into details. The constitution having granted
the power to punish the crime in chief, gives, as incidental to that,
the right to punish all other crimes of like nature, growing out of the
principal offence, and which are its necessary concomitants ; -especially where, as in this instance, the grant is of power to punith

428

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

the higher grade of the like offence, for the greater power includes
the less.
The term "1counterfeiting," as used in the constitution, is nome
generalissimum, - the generic term for crimes debasing of impairing
the coin. The passing of the spurious is an immediate and direct
injury to the genuine coin, for it displaces it in the circulation, and
discredits it by exciting distrust and suspicion. Indeed, it is only
by the passing of the base that the genuine is injured. To what
end is it, that the counterfeiting is prohibited and punished, but to
prevent the counterfeit from getting into circulation, - to prevent its
-passing ? The sole object of punishing the act of counterfeiting is
to prevent the circulation and passing of the counterfeit, to the prejudice of the genuine.
The argument of -the counsel for the defendant in error, while it
concedes the power to punish the act of counterfeiting, in order to
prevent the consequence which flows from it, - the passing and circulation of counterfeit coin, - would yet deny the power to punish for
bringing about that very consequence itself, - the passing ; for doing
the very thing to prevent which the act of counterfeiting is itself
made punishable.
However apposite the argument might be, on a question of criminal special pleading,* which deals in technical refinement, it is
wholly out of place when applied to constitutional construction.
Again ; the ground upon which it is claimed that the States have
power to punish offences against the coin of the United States is,
that the powers belonging to the States prior to the adoption of the
constitution are retained by them, unless prohibited by the constitution in express terms, or by necessary implication.
Now, if it were conceded that the exclusive right of punishing
the passing of base coin was not vested in Congress by express
grant, it would not follow that the States possessed that power, because the States never, at any time, had the power of 'punishing
offences against the coinage of the United States. They had no
such original power before the constitution, because no such coinage
was then in existence. They then had the power to punish counterfeiting of their own State coin, and of foreign coin. But the coin
of the United States is not the coin of a State, but of the federal
government. It is not a foreign coin ; for in regard to the federal
coin, the States are not foreign to each other, or to the United
States, - all deriving their coin from the same source, the federal
government.
A coin so peculiar in the relation which the States sustain to it
as that of the United States coin was wholly unknown to the original States. It is a new thin'g,- a creation of the constitution
itself. It cannot, therefore, be said that the States, before the
adoption of the constitution, weie ever possessed of the right to
punish offences against the federal coi;., or destructive of its end,

JANUARY TERM,. 1847'.

429

Fox v. The S.tate of Ohio.

and that such power, not being taken away from the States by.the
constitution, remains to them, to be exercised as part of their original proper powers. This view of the question seems conclusive in
favor of the exclusive power of the United States over the protection and .preservation of its coin, including the derivative and
secondary offence of passing, as well as the offence in chief of
counterfeiting. Finally, it is claimed on behalf of the defendant in
error, that if the United States possess the power to punish'the
uttering, it is only concurrent with a like power belonging to the
States.
What has been already said shows, I think, conclusively, that the
power of Congress to punish the crime of counterfeiting is exclusive ; and as the power to punish the passing is derived from the
same source, being necessarily incidental, that also is exclusive.
The same reasoning that supporti the claim of one to an exclusive
character supports that of the other to a like exclusive character.
The difficulties and collisions which result from the concurrent
exercise of power in either case are precisely the same. A slight
consideration of the consequences which result from regarding the
power to punish either the counterfeiting or the passing as concurrently vested in the federal and State governments, will conclusively show that no such concurrent power can exist.
Now, if the power be concurrent, a conviction in the State court
is, on the one hand, a bar to a-proscution in the federal court, and
e converso, a conviction -in the federal court is a bar to a prosecution in the State court ; or, on the other hand, such conviction in
one court is not a bar to a prosecution in the other. The weight
of authority is decidedly in favor of the doctrine, that a conviction
in either court is a bar to a prosecution in the other. It has been
repeatedly held that a man cannot be convicted and punished
for two distinct felonies growing out of the same idenical act, and
that a former conviction or acquittal of an offence of one denomination is a bar to another prosecution for an offence of another
and different denomination, founded upon the same act. I Green's
N. Jer. R. 362; 2 Haywood's N. Car. R. 4 ; 2 Hawks, 98 ; 2
Tyler, 387 ; 2 Virginia Cases, 139 ; 7 Connect. 54.
In regard to concurrent jurisdiction, it is also a universal principle, wherever the common law is known, that, of the concurrent
courts, the one which first takes jurisdiction acquires by that act
the right to go on and exercise the jurisdiction throughout, t6 the
exclusion of all other concurrent tribunals. The right to jurisdiction is -concurrent ; but when the exercise of the right once begins
in any one.o" the concurrent courts, so that jurisdiction attaches to
the particular case, the case then becomes one exclusively 'cognizable by that court, and the other tribunals cannot interfere. 16
Mass. R, 171 ; ibid. 203 ; 3 Yerger, 167 ; 2 Stew. & Port. 9;
1 Hawks, 78 ; Payne's Cir. Ct. R. 621.

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

In Antonio's case, 3 Wheeler's Crim. Cases, 508 (and also relported in 2 Comst. S. Car. R. 781), so strongly relied upon by
the defendant in error to show the concurrent power of the State,
it is said that a conviction in the State is a bar to a prosecution for
the same act -in the federal court. The same thing is said by Mr.
Justice Washington, in Huston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 31.
Now, if a prosecution in a State court isto be sustained under
the twenty-sixth section of the act of Congress of 1825, it follows
that Congress has the power to divest the courts of the United
States of their jurisdiction over acts declared offences and made
punishable by act of Congress, notwithstanding the constitution
expressly declares that the judicial power in "all cases arising
under the constitvtion, laws, and treaties of the United States "
shall be vested in the courts of the United States.. And Congress
in the twentieth section of that act has expressly provided for
punishifig the crime of passing and uttering counterfeit noin, -the
very crime of which the plaintiff in error was convicted in the State
court. And not only so,, but, if the conviction in the case now
before the court be sustained, being a conviction under a statute of
Ohio, passed in 1835, providing, for the punishment of the same
crime, Congress also parts with its proper power of legislation and
transfers that to the legislatures of the States, -transfers.a
power
given to Congresg to be exercised by itself alone for the benefit of
the-people of the whole Union, and not to be delegated to other
legislative bodies.
The principle that a State conviction is a br to a federal prosecution, and that, where there is concurrent jurisdiction, the tribunal first taking jurisdiction fterwards holds that jurisdiction, and
exercises it throughout, to the exclusion of all others, necessarily
leads to this result. Both the legislative and judicial powers of the
United States are thus rendered abortive. The States, by the
agency of Congress (whether the language of the act of Congress
authorizing it be in terms imperative or permissive), are made to
defeat the powers granted by the constitution to the general government.
But the evil doe not stop here. The jurisdiction of the States,
when a prosecution is once begun in their tribunals, is exclusive, as
well to discharge the convict from punishment, as for inflicting it ;
and the pardoning power, in such case, becomes exclusively vested
in the executive of the State. The President, then, has no right to
pardon, 'or to refuse to pardon, although the offence consists of an
act made punishable by Congress. The pardoning power vested
in him by the constitution is by the action of the State governments, by the directibn br with the consent of Congress, invaded.
Congress has placed a case which properly belongs to him, under
the constitution of the United States, beyond his reach.
Thus, upon this construction', not only are the functions of the

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

431

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

legislative and judicial departments of the federal government taken
from them, and vested in the States, but the President of the
United States is stripped of his prerogative of executive clemency.
Surely a doctrine leading to such results cannot be sustained;
and there 'is no escape.from it but to hold that a conviction in a
State court is no hal to a prosecution in the courts of the United
States. Fori if the concurrent jurisdiction of the. State courts do
not become exclusive,.upon a prosecution being commenced and
carried on to conviction and punishment, it follows that neither a
prosecution nor conviction in a State court can be a bar to a prosecution under the act of Congress in the federal courts ; and that a
person may be thus twice put in jeopardy, and twice punished, for
the same offence, contrary to the fifth article of the amendments to
the constitution of the United States, which declares that no person
shall "be subject, for the same offence, to be twice put in jeopardy
of life or limb."
If Congress merely permit the States to punish the offence,
when it might prevent it, and afterwards punish the same act itself,
it violates both the letter and spirit of this great safeguard of the
citizen, - one which is also a fundamental principle of the common
law. It has already pervaded-its criminal jurisprudence. Indeed,
even in civil cases the common law declares nemo bis vexare piro
eadem causa.
The constitution of Ohio contains a like piohibition against a
double prosecution and.double punishment ; and yet, if the doctrine
of the defendant in error be sustained, the plaintiff in error is liable,
notwithstanding this double guarantee, to be twice prosecuted, twice
convicted, and twice punished, for the same offence. These great
constitutional provisions become a mere mockery. There is no
esqape from the alternative presented, between divesting the judicial, legislative,'and executive departments of the federal government of their constitutional powers, and the double jeopardy and
punishment, except to hold that the cognizance of the offence is
exclusively veqted in the general. government.
It is suggested by the counsel forthe defendant in error that the
protection against the double jeopardy does not apply to this case,
where the punishment is imprisonment only, the language of the
fifth article of the amendment to the constitution being " twice put
in jeopardy of life or limb." He seems to think that it must be a
case of actual, total loss or destruction of limb, to come within the
constitutional protection. This is clearly a mistake. That it extends to cases where the punishment was total loss or destruction
of limb is true, although there were but very few cases of such
punishment known to the common law at any time, even in its
earliest aid most barbarous periods ; and I believe none at all when
the constitution was adopted. But the jeopardy of limb was not
confined to cases of actual dismemberment. It is a common law

-

432

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The Stake of Ohio.

term, and extends to all cases where punishment inflicted any injury
upon limb, and of course to confinement or restraint of the freedom
of limb, whether it be by imprisonment in the stocks, the dungeon,
or the penitentiary, as well as to cases of actual dismemberment.
In conclusion I ask, what reason is there for vesting a concurrent
jurisdiction in State tribunals ? The federal government has no
need of such aid. In its own-anple resources, in the plenitude of
its own proper powers, lie the means of its safety and protection.
Hic arma, hi currus. To hold that the States have concurrent
power will lead to jealousies and contentions between the two jurisdictions. It cannot be expected that this divisum imperium, this
"joint occupation'1 of the same ground by the federal and State
governments, can go on without engendering strifes and collisions.
In view, then, of the difficulties that result from the doctrine of
concurrent right in the States, as well as of the clear grant to the
federal government of the whole subject-matter of the coin, I submit whether the attempt to make out the concurrent right does not
fail, and ask, therefore, a reversal of the judgment.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio, by whose judgment was affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Common Pleas for the county of Morgan in that State, convicting the plaintiff of passing, with fraudulent intent, a base and counterfeit coin in the similitude of a good
and legal silver dollar, and sentencing her for that offence to imprisonment and labor in the State penitentiary for ihree years.
The prosecution against the plaintiff occurred in virtue of a statute of Ohio of March 7th,' 1835, and the particular clause on
which the indictment was founded is in the following language, viz.:"1That if any person shall counterfeit any of the coins of goid,
silver, or copper currently passing in this State, or shall alter or put
off counterfeit coin or coins, knowing them to be such," &c., "1every person so offending shall be deemed guilty o( a misdemeanour',
and upon conviction thereof shall b6 imprisoned in the penitentiary
and kept at hard labor not more than fifteen- nor less than three
years." As has been already stated, the plaintiff was convicted
of the offence described in the statute, her sentence was affirmed
by the Supremne Court of the State, and, with the view of testing the
validity of the sentence, a writ of error to the latter court has been
.issued.
With the exceptions taken to the formality or technical accuracy
of the pleadings -pending the prosecution, this court can have nothing
to do. The only question with which it can regularly deal in this
case is the following, viz. :-Whether that portion of the statute of
Ohio, under which the prosecution against the plaintiff has taken place,
and, consequently, whether the conviction and sentence founded on

JANUARY

TERM, 1847.

433

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

the statute, are consistent with or in contravention of the constitution
of the United States, or of any law of the United States enacted in
pursuance of the constitution ? For the plaintiff, it is insisted that
the statute of Ohio is repugnant to the fifth and sixth clauses of the
eighth section of the first article of the constitution, which invest
Congress with the power to coin money, regulate the value thereof
and of foreign coin, and to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the current coin of the United States ; contending that these
clauses embrace not only what their language directly imports, and all
other offences which may be denominated offences against the coin
itself, such as counterfeiting, scaling, or clipping it, or debasing it
in any mode, but that they embrace other offences, such as frauds,
cheats, or impositions between man and man by intentionally circulating or putting upon any person a base or simulated coin. On behalf of the State of Ohio, it is insisted that this is not the correct
construction to be placed upon the clautes of the constitution in question, either by a natural and philological interpretation of their language, or by any real neces.i-.y for the attainment of their objects ;
and that if any act of Congress should be construed as asserting this
meaning in the constitution, and as claiming from it the power contended for, it would not be a law passed in, pursuance of the constitution, nor one deriving its authority regularly from that instrument.
We think it manifest that the language of the constitution, by its
proper signification, is limited to the facts, or to the faculty in Congress of coining and of stamping the standard of value upon what
the government creates or shall adopt, and of punishing the offence
of producing a false representation of what may have been so created or adopted. The imposture of passing a false coin creates,
produces, or alters nothing ; it leaves the legal coin as it was, affects its intrinsic value in no wise whatsoever. The criminality of
this act consists in the obtaining for a false representative of the
true coin that for which the true coin alope is the equivalent.
There exists -an obvious difference, not only in the description of
these offences, but essentially also in their characters. The former
is an offence directly against the government, by which individuals
may be affected ; the other -is a private wrong, by which the government may be remotely, if it will in any degree, be reached. A
material distinction has been recognized between the offences of
counterfeiting the coin and of passing base coin by a government
which may be deemed sufficiently jealous of its authority ; sufficiently rigorous, tbo, in its penal code. Thus, in England, the counterfeiting of the coin is made high treason, whether it be uttered
or not ; but those who barely utter false money are neither guilty of
treason nor of misprision of treason. 1 Hawkins's Pleas' of the
Crown, 20. Again (I East's Crown Law, 178), if A. counterfeit
the gold or silver coin, and by agreement before such counterfeiting
B.-is to receive and vent the maoney, he is an aider and abettor to the
VOL. V.

37

434

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. T.he State of Ohio.

act itself of counterfeiting, and consequently a principal traitor
within the law. But if he had merely vented the money for his
own private benefit, knowing it to be false, in fraud of any person,
-he was only liable to be punished as for a cheat and misdemeanour,
&c. These citations from approved English treatises on criminal
law are adduced to show, in addition to ,the obvious meaning of the
words of the constitution, what has been the adjudged and established import of the phrase counterfeiting the coin, and to what
description of acts that phrase is 'restricted.
It would follow from these views, that if within the power conferred by the clauses of the constitution above quoted can be
drawn the power to punish a private cheat effected by means of a
base dollar, that power certainly cannot be deduced from either the
common sense or the adjudicated meaning of the language used in
the constitution, or from any apparent or probable conflict which
might arise between the federal and State authorities, operating
each upon these distinct characters uf offence. If any such conflict can- be apprehended, it must be from some remote, and obscure, and scarcely comprehensible possibility, which can never
constitute an objection to a just and necessary State power. The
punishment of a cheat or a misdemeanour practised within the State,
and against those whom she is bound to protect, is peculiarly and
appropriately within her functions and duties, anl it is difficult to
imagine an interference with those duties and functions which would
be regular or justifiable. It has been objected on behalf of the
plaintiff in error, that if the States could inflict penalties for the
offence of passing base coin, and the federal government should
denounce a penalty against the same act, an iiidividual under these
separate jurisdictions might be liable to be twice punished for the
one and the same crime, and that this would be in violation of the
fifth article of the amendments to the constitution, declaring that no
person shall be subject for the same offence to be twice put in
jeopardy of life or limb. Conceding for the present that Congress
should undertake,.and could rightfully undertake, to punish a cheat
perpetrated between citizens of a State because an instrument in
effecting thht cheat was a counterfeited coin of the United States,
the force of the objection sought to be deduced from the position
assumed is not perceived; for the position is itself without real
foundation. The prohibition alluded to as contained in the amendments to the constitution, as well as others with which it is associated in those articles, were not designed as limits upon the State
governments in reference to their Own citizens. They are exclusively restrictions upon federal power, intended to prevent interference with the rights of the States, and of their citizens. Such
has been the interpretation given to those amendments by this court,
in the case of Barron v. The Mlayor and City Council of Baltimore, 7 Peters, 243 ; nd such indeed is the only rational and in-

JANUARY TERMI,

1847.

43

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

telligible interpretation which those amendments can bear, since it
is neither probable nor credible that the States should have anxiously insisted to ingraft upon the federal constitution restribtions
upon their own authority, - restrictions which some of the States
regarded as the sine qua non of its adoption by them. It is almost
certain, that, in the benignant spirit in which the institutions both of
the State and. federal systems are administered, an offender who
should have suffered the penalties denounced by the one would-not
be subjected a second time to punishment by the other for acts essentially the same, unless indeed this might occur in instances of
peculiar enormity, or where the. public safety demanded extraordinary rigor., But were a contrary course of policy and action either
probable or usual, this would by no means justify the conclusion,
that offences falling within the competency of different authorities
to restrain or punish them would not properly be subjected to the
consequences which those authorities might ordain and affix to their
perpetration. The particular offence described in the statute of
Ohio, and charged in the indictment against the plaintiff in error,
is deemed by this court to be clearly within the rightful power and
jurisdiction of the State. So far, then, neither the statute in question, nor the conviction and sentence founded upon it, can be held
as violating either the constitution or any law of the United States
made in pursuance thereof. The judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Ohio, affirming that of the Court of Common Pleas,
is therefore in all things affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion of the court, and, as this is a constitutional question, I will state the reasons of my dissent.
The defendant in the State court was indicted and convicted of
passing "a certain piece of false, base, counterfeit coin, forged
and counterfeited to the likeness and similitude of the good and
legal silver coin, currently passing in the State of Ohio, called a
dollar." This is made an offence by the law of Ohio, and punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary, and being kept at hard laboi-,
not more than fifteen, nor less than three years. The defendant
was sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor for three years.
The act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1825, punishes the
same offence, "' by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, and
by imprisonment and confinement to bard labor not exceeding ten
years."
The.eighth article of the constitution gives power to Congress
"to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin."
Also, " to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities
and current coin of the United States."
Jurisdiction is taken in this case, on the ground that the law under
which the defendant in the State court was sentenced, is repugnant

436

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. 'Phe State of Ohio.

to the constitution of the United States, and the above-cited act of
Congress.
Objection is made to, the sufficiency of the description of the
counterfeit coin alleged to have been passed. But I think the indictment, although not technical in this averment, is maintainable.
The false coin is alleged td be of the similitude "of the good and
legal silver coin, currently passing in the State of Ohio, called a,
dollar." The words "legal," "currently passing," and" dollar,"
are significant, and must be held to be the coin made legal and current by act of Congress, and that the denomination of a dollar, so
connected, is a coin legal and current.
The power to " coin money, regulate the value thereof and of
foreign coin," vested by the constitution in the federal government,
is an exclusive, power. It is expressly inhibited, to the States.
And the power to punish for counterfeiting the coin is also expressly
vested in Congress. This power is not inhibited to the States in
terms, but this may inferred from the nature of the power. Two
governments acting independently of each other cannot exercise the
same power for the same object. Ii would be a contradiction in
terms to say, for instance, that the federal government may-coin
money and regulate its value, and that the same thing may be done
by the State governments. Two governments might act on these
subjects, if uniformity in the coin and its value were not indispensa-

-

ble. There can be no independent action without a freedom of
the will, and in this view how can two governments do the same
thing, not a similar thing ? The coin must be the same and the
value the same ; the regulation must be the result of the same discretion, and not of distinct and independent judgments. This
power, therefore, cannot be exercised by two governments.
The act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1825, "more effectuwly to provide for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States," &c., provides, by the twenty-sixth section, that
"nothing in that act shall be construed to deprive the courts of the
individual States of jurisdiction, under the laws of the several
States, over offences made punishable by that act."
Offences are made punishable in /that act committed on the high
seas, in navy-yards, and other places where the United States have
exclusive jurisdiction, and also for counterfeiting the coin' of the
United States. Now it must bV admitted that Congiess cannot
cede any portion of that jurisdiction which the constitution has,
vested in the federal government.
And it is equally obvious,
that a State cannot punish offences committed on the high seas,
or in any place beyond its limits. The above section, therefor,
cannot extend to offences without the State, nor to State statutes
subsequently enacted. It is a settled rule of construction, that the
statutes of a State subsequently enacted must be expressly adopted
by Congress. The statute under which the defendant below was

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

437

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

indicted was passed the 7th of March, 1835, so that no force could
be given to it by the act of Congress of 1825.
That Congress have power to provide for the punishment of this
offence seems tcl admit of no doubt. Coin is the creation of the
federal government ; and the power to punish the counterfeiting of
this coin is expressly given in the constitution. And these powers
must be incomplete, and in a great degree inoperative, unless Congress can also exercise the power to punish the passing of counterfeit coin. Such a power has been exercised by the federal government for many years, and its constitutionality has never been questioned.
Counterfeiting the notes of the Bank of the United States was
made an offence by Congress, and punishments were inflicted under
that law. This power was never doubted by any one who believed
that Congress had power to establish a national bank. It seemed
to be the necessary result of the power to establish the bank. For
the principal power was in a great degree a nullity, unless Congress
had power to protect that whici they had created. I speak not of
the power to establish the bank, but of the power which necessarily
resulted from the. exercise of that power. And if this power to
protect the notes of the bank was necessary, the power to protect
the coin is still clearer, as there can be no question as to the constitutionality of the act of Congress to establish the coin'and punish
the act of counterfeiting it. In relation to the bank, the principal
power is doubted by many, but in relation to the coinage there can
be no doubt. The protection of the coin was at least as necessary
as the protection of the notes of the bank. But it cannot be necessary further to illustrate the power of Congress to punish the passing
of counterfeit coin. It is a power which seems never to have been
doubted.
Under the power 11 to establish post-offices and post-roads," Congress have provided for punishing violations of the mail, regulated the
duties of the agents of the post-office department, required, under
heavy penalties, ferry-keepers to pass over the mail without delay,
&c. These and numerous other regulations are necessary to carry
out the principal power. And so in relation to the coins. Is it
reasonable to suppose that Congress, having power to coin money,
and to punish for counterfeiting the coin, should have no power to
punish for passing counterfeit coin ? Is this coin created by the
federal government, and thrown upon the community, without power
to prevent a fraudulent use of it ? The powers of the general government were not delegated in this manner. Where a principal
power is clearly delegated, it includes all powers necessary to give
effect to tha principal power. This is not controverted, it is believed, by any one. It would seem, therefore, that the power to
punish for passing counterfeit coin is clearly in the federal government.
37*

438

SUPREME COURT.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

Can this same power be exercised by a State. I think it cannot.
Formerly Congress provided that the State courts should have jurisdiction of certain offences under their laws, and in several States
indictments were prosecuted, and to a limited extent the laws of the
Union were enforced by the States. But some States very properly refused to exercise the jurisdiction in such cases, and it was too
clear for argument that Congress could not impose such duties on
State courts. And this doctrine is now universally established.
Consequently no State court will undertake to enforce the criminal
law of the Union, except as regards the arrest of person's charged
under such law. It is therefore clear, that the same power cannot
be exercised by a State court as is exercised by the courts of the
United States, in giving effect to their criminal laws.
In some cases the acts of Congress adopt the laws of the States
on particlar subjects ; but even these, so far as the United Statcs
are concerned, become their laws by adoption, as fully as if they
had been originated by them, and cannot be considered in any different light than as if they had been so passed.
If a State punish acts which are made penal by an act of Congress, the power cannot be derived from the act of Congress, but
from the laws of the State. And in this light must the act of
Ohio be considered, under which the defendant below was punished.
The act of Ohio does not prescribe the same punishment for
passing counterfeit coin as the act of Congress. This State law
must stand upon the power of the State to punish an act over which
the law of Congress extends and punishes.
The passage of counterfeit coin is said to be a fraud which the State may punish.
With the same propriety, it is supposed that a State may punish
for larceny a person who steals money from the mail or a post-office.
And yet a jurisdiction over this offence, it is believed, has not been
exercised by a State.
The postmaster or the carrier, as the case may be, has a temporary possession of letters, but the money abstracted from a letter
inthe mail or in the post-office may be laid in the owner, who, in
contemplation of law, retains the right of property until the money
shall be received by the person to whom it is forwarded.
Many, if not all, of the States punish for counterfeiting the coin
of the United States, ivhile the same offence is punished by act of
Congress. And, as before stated, the constitution vests this power
expressly in Congress. Now in these two cases, viz. counterfeiting
the coin, and passing counterfeit coin, the same act is punished by
the federal and State governments. Each government has defined
the crime and affixed the punishment, without reference to the action
of any other jurisdiction. And the question arises whether, in such
eases, where the federal government has an undoubted jurisdiction,
a State government can punish the same act. The point is not'

JANUARY TERM, 1847.

439

Fox v. The State of Ohio.

whether a State may not punish an offence under an act of Congress, but whether the State may inflict, by virtue of its-own sovereignty, punishment for the same act, as an-offence against the State,
which the federal government may constitutionally punish.
If this be so, it is a great defect in our system. For the punishment under the State law would be no bar to a prosecution under
the law of Congress. And to punish the same act by the two
governments would violate, not only the common principles of
humanity, but would be repugnant to the nature of both governments. If there were a concurrent power in both governments to
puaish the same act, a conviction under the laws of either could
be pleaded in bar to a prosecution by the other. But it is not
pretended that the conviction of Maliada Fox, under the State
law, is a bar to a prosecution under the law of Congress. Each
government, in prescribing the punishment, was governed by the
nature of the offence, and must be supposed to have acted in reference to its own sovereignty.
There is no principle better established by the common law, none
more fully recognized in the federal and State constitutions, than
that an individual shall not be put in jeopardy twice for the same
offence. This, it is true, applies to the respective governments ;
but its spirit applies with equal force against a double.punisbment,
for the same act, by a State and the federal government.
Mr. Hamilton, in the thirty-second number of The Federalist,
says there is an exclusive delegation of power by the States to the
federal government in three cases :- 1. Where in express terms an
exclusi4,e authority is granted-i 2. Where the power granted is inhibited to the States ; and 3. Where the exercise of an authority
granted to the Union by a State would be " contradictory and
repugnant."
The power in Congress to punish for counterfeiting the coin, and
also for passing it, is exercised under the third head. That a State
should punish for doing that which an act of Congress punishes, is
contradictory and repugnant. This is- clearly the case, whether
we regard the nature of the power or the infliction of the punish-.
ment. As well might a State punish for treason against the United States, as for the offence of passing counterfeit coin. No
government could exist without the power to punish rebellion
against its sovereignty. Nor can a government protect the coin
which it creates, unless it has power to punish for counterfeiting or
passing it. If it has not power to protect the constitutional currency which it establishes, it is the only exception in the exercise
of federal p6wers.
There can be no greater mistake than to. suppose that the federal
government, in carrying out any of its supreme functions, is made
dependent on the State governments. The federal is a limited government, exercising enumerated powers ; but the powers given are

440

.

SUPREME C OUR T.
Fox v. The State of Ohio.

supreme and independent. If this were not the case, if could not
be called a general government. Nothing can be more repugnant
or contradictory than two punishments for the same act. It would
be a mockery of justice and a reproach to civilization. It would
bring our system of government into merited contempt. The sixth
article of the constitution preserves the government from so great a
reproach. It declares, that " this constitution, and the laws of the
United States made in pursuance thereof, &c., shall be the supreme
law. of the land ; and the judges in every State shall be bound
thereby, any thing in the constitution- or laws of any State to the
contrary notwithstanding." That the act of Congress which punishes the passing pf counterfeit coin is constitutional, would seem
to admit of no doubt. • And if that act be constitutional, it is the
supreme law of the land ; and any State law which is repugnant to
it is void. As there cannot, in the nature of things, be two punishments for the. same act, it follows that the power to punish being in
the general government, it does not exist in the States. Such a
power in a State is repugnant in its existence and in its exercise to
the federal power. They cannot both stand'
I stand alone in this view, but I have we satisfaction to know,
that the lamented Justice Story, when this case was discussed by
the judges the last term that he attended the Supreme Court, and,
if I mistake not, one of the last cases which was discussed by him
in consultation, coincided with the views here presented. But at
that time, on account of the diversity of opinion- among the judges
present, and the absence of others, a majority of them being required by a rule of the court, in constitutional questions, to make a
decision, a reargument of the cause was ordered. I think the
judgment of the State court should be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and. was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment .of the said Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio, affirming that of the Court of Common
Pleas, in this cause be and the same is hereby in all things affirmed,
with costs.

