JANUARY TERM, 1847.

141

Truly v. Wanzer et al.

of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby
reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the same is-hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a
venire facias de nrvo.

BENNET

R.

TRULY, COMPILAINANT AND APPELLANT, V, MOSES WAXZER, JABEZ HARRISON, AND 'OHN R. NICHOLSON.

The preceding case of Rowan and Harris v. Runnels reviewed and confirmed.
Thb general principle with regard to injunctions after a judgment at law is this,that'any fact which proves it to be against couscience to execute such judgment,
and of whiclr-the party could not have availed himself in a court of law, or of
which he might have availed himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or accident, unmixed with any fault or negligence
in himself or his agents, will authorize a court of equity to interfere 1 y injuiction to restrain the adverse party
from availing himself of such judgment.
Hence, where a party-had remained for ten years in the undisturbed enjoyment of
the property which he purchased, it was no ground for an injunction to stay proceedings for the recovery of the purchase mopey, to say that the original purchase was void by the laws of the State, but that he bad neglected to urge thatdefence at law, or to say that he had heard that some persons unknown might
possibly-at some future time assert a title to the property.
Such an injunction, if.granted, must be dissolved.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Missi~sippi.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion of
the -court.
The case was argued by M7Ir. Crittenden, for the appellant, and
X1Ir. Coxe, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not easy to apprehend or appreciate the grounds upon which
the complainant in this case has invoked the aid of a court of chancery.
He purchased some negroes from one Herbert,-in 1836, to whom
he gave two notes in payment. On one of these, suit was brought
and a judgment obtained, which has bee i paid and satisfied. The
other remains unpaid, but the complainattt has been summoned as
garnishee of Herbert in a suit by Wanier and Harrison, in which
a judgment has also been obtained, and an execution issued; and
he now asks the interposition of a court of equity, not only to protect
him from the judgment and execution, but also to restore to him that
portion of the consideration which has been recovered by due
course of law.
The reasons alleged for this request are, firbt, because the
negroes purchased by him were brought into the State of Mississippi for sale contrary to the provisions of the constitution of the
State; and therefore the contract was illegal and Void. And,

142

SUPREME COURT.
Truly V. Wanzer et al.

-secondly, because he has been informed that the vender had not a

good title to the negroes, but held them as guardian for his infant
brothers and sisters, "-and ran them off to the State of Mississippi."
As the complainant. still retains the undisturbed possession of the
property without even a t~reat of molestation, this allegation would
seem to have been inserted in the bill not as containing in itself different grounds for an injunction, but rather to give some plausibility
to the charge of fraud and thus veil the naked deformity of his case.
That a note, given for th purchase of negroes brought into the
State of Mississippi after 1833 (when the constitution was adopted), and before 1837 (when the legislature imposed penalties to
enforce the -constitutional prohibition), was not void., has been decided.by this court in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters,
449, and again at the present term in the casefof Rowan & Harris
v. Runnels.
. But even if the alleged-illegality of the contract would have constituted an available defence to the payment of note, it w6uld be
a strange abuse of the functions of a court of equity to grant an injunction against the recovery of a judgment at law, because a purchaser with a full knowledge of his defence had omitted or was
ashamed to urge it.
It may be stated as' a general principle, with regard to injunctions after a judgment at law, that any fact which proves it to be
against conscience to execute such judgment, and of which the party
could not have availed himself in a court of law, or of which he
might have availed himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or
,accident, unmixed with any fault or.negligence ,in himself or his
agents, will authorize a court of equity to interfere by injunction to'
restrain the adverse party from availing himself of such judgment.
See 2 Story's Equity Jurisprudence,
887.
It is too pain for argument that none of these eonditions can be
predicated of the present case.
The complainant has had the undisturbed enjoyment of his purchase, without challenge of its title, for ten years; and it is with a
bad, grace that he now invokes the aid of a court of eqdity to shield
him from the payment of the consideration, on .the allegation that he
had neglected to urge an unconscionable defence, or that he had
heard that some persons unknown might possibly at some future
time assert a claim to the property. It is in vain to search the annals of equity jurisprudence for a precedent of an injunction granted
on such bald pretences.
"'There is no power, the exercise of which is more delicate,
which requires greater caution, deliberation, and sound. discretion,
or more dangerous in a doubtful case, than the issuing an injunction.
It is the strong arm of equityj that never ought to be extended, unless to cases of great injury, where courts of law cannot afford an
adequate , and commensurate remedy in damages. The right must

JANUARY

TERM,

Ford v. Douglas

1847.

148

et al.'

be clear, the injury impending, and threatened so as to be aveaed
only by the protecting preventive process of injunction." Baldwin's
Rep. 218. It never should be permitted to issue where it is even
suspected that it will be prostituted to the unworthy purpose of delaying, vexing, and harassihg suitors at law in the prosecution of their
just demands.
Let the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern .iDistrict of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court that the
decree of the said Circuit Court. in this cause be and the-same is
'hereby affirmed, with costs.

CHRISTOPHER FORD, APPELLANT, v. ARCHIBALD DOUGLAS, MAXWELV.
W. BLAND, AND EIELINE, His WIPE, APPELLEES.
By. the laws of Louisiana; where tmere has been a judicial sale of the succession by
a probate judge, a creditor of the estate, who obtains a judgmeit; cannot levy an
execution upon, the property so transferred, upon the ground that the sale was
fraudulent and void. fe should first bring an actign to set the sale aside.
The purchaser under the judicial sale having filed
a bill and obtained an idjunction
upon the creditor to stay the execution, it was alhiriegular mode of raising the
question of fraud for the creditor to file an answer setting it forth, and alleging
the sale to be void upon that ground. He should have filed a crass bin.. Exceptions to the answer upon thiis account were properly sustained by the' court
below.
But if the court below should perpetuate the injunction, upon the defendants' refusal to answer further, the injunction should be free from doubt, in leaving ,ae
creditor to pursue other property under his judgment, and also atliberty to file a'
cross bill. If the injunction does not clearly reserve these rights to the creditor
it goes too far, and the judgment of the couit below must be reversed.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
As the merits of the case were not involved in the decision of the
court, it will only be necessary. to give such a narrative of the facts
as will illustrate the points of law upon.which the decision turned.
On the 24th of November, 1837, James S. Douglas, of the
State of Louisiana, made his last will and testament, as follows I, James S. Douglas, of the parish of Concordia, and State of"
Louisiana, being feeble in body, and knowing the uncertainty of this
life, but of sound and disposing mind and memory, do make and
publish this my last will and testament.
First. I direbt that all my just debts be pai as soon after my

