OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

between this Government and other nations, where provision
is expressly made in regard to punishment. They frequently
provide that no person shall be triable or tried "or be punished" for any other offense than that for which he was delivered up, until he has had an opportunity of returning to
the country from which he was surrendered. But because
in some, of the treaties the words "or be punished" are contained we are not required to hold that in the case before us
the absence of those words permits such punishment, when
that construction is, as we have said, contrary to the manifest
meaning of the whole treaty, and also violates the statutes
above cited. The order of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

did not sit in the case and took no part

in its decision.

HUNT v. NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 314.

Submitted March 4, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

Quotations of prices on an exchange, collected, by the exchange, are property and entitled to the protection of the law, and the exchange has the
right to keep them to itself or have them distributed under conditions
established by it. Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198
U. S. 236.
In a suit brought by an exchange to enjoin defendant from receiving quotations from the. telegraph company to which it has given the right to
distribute them, and from using the same, the value involved is not merely
the amount which defendant pays the telegraph company, but the right
of the exchange to keep the control of the quotations and protect itself
from competition which is the object of the suit; and if the testimony
shows, as it does in this case, that such right is worth more than $2,000,
the Circuit.Court has jurisdiction, so far as amount is concerned; and when
the plea piesents such an issue the burden is on appellant to show that
the amount involved is less than the jurisdictional amount.

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The fact that defendant has, in another action in the state court, and to
which the exchange was not a party, obtained an injunction against
the telegraoh company, enjoining it from ceasing to deliver the quotations, does not deprive the Circuit Court of jurisdiction of the suit by the
exchange under ยง 720, Rev. Stat., the parties and the purpose not being
the same.
144 Fed. Rep. 511, affirmed.

THIS is a bill in equity brought by the New York Cotton
Exchange, a New York corporation, against appellant, a citizen
of Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee, to enjoin him from receiving
and using the quotations of sales made upon the Exchange.
The case is here on questions of jurisdiction, and only a synopsis
of the principal facts alleged is necessary.
The Exchange is a private corporation under the laws of
New York, with 450 members, and owns in the city of New
York a building for the use of its members, and conducts therein
on every business day cotton sales for present and future
delivery, the transfers aggregating many million bales of cotton
annually. The purchases and sales for future delivery are
permitted to be made and are made only during market hours
and by open viva voce bidding, and the knowledge of the prices
thus made has become a species of property of such value
that Telegraph Companies pay large sums of money to the
Exchange for the privilege of receiving instantaneously the
quotations and distributing the same to customers and many
persons in the United States who are engaged in the cotton
commission business. Such persons ar e willing to pay and do
pay the Telegraph Companies therefor, and the Exchange
realizes from the distribution of the quotations through the
Telegraph Companies large sums of money annually. The
quotations are such peculiar kind of property that their value
depends upon the power of the Exchange to confine the transmission and distribution thereof to such Telegraph Companies
and their distributing agencies as will contract therefor with
the Exchange, and, that, if any person or corporation is permitted to promptly acquire the quotations surreptitiously or

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

by theft, or without paying the Exchange therefor, such person
or corporation can promptly give the same to numerous other
.persons, and the Telegraph Companies contracting with the
Exchange would thus be put at a disadvantage in competition
with such persons so obtaining the quotations without paying
for them, and would thereby be deterred from continuing to pay
the Exchange the prices provided in the contracts with the
Telegraph Companies: The manner of collecting and distributing the quotations is detailed, and yearly the cost to the Exchangej it is alleged, is $4,500. Prior to 1893 the Exchange
permitted the Telegraph Companies to-gather the quotations
through their own employ6s upon the floor of the Exchange
building, and to distribute them without any effective restrictions upon the persons entitled thereto, with the result that
many persons used the same in conducting so-called "bucket
shops," by reason thereof the bucket shop evil assumed such
large proportions and became so serious as to materially affect
the legitimate transactions upon the floor of the Exchange,
and its members were deprived of many customers. The
Exchange therefore'found it necessary to terminate such right
or license of the Telegraph Companies, and to that end made
contracts with them. The contracts are attached to the bill.
It is enough to say of them that under them the companies
receive the quotations under the condition not to furnish them
to any persons, firms or corporations who, or which, may be
directly or indirectly engaged in the promotion or maintenance
of "bucket shops "or other places where such continuous quotations are used as a basis for bets or other illegal contracts based
upon fluctuations of the prices of cotton dealt in on the Exchange. Nor shall the companies directly or indirectly furnish
the quotations to any person, firm or corporation, whether
members of the Exchange or not, until such person, firm or
corporation shall have submitted an application in Writing to
the-Exchange in such form as it shall provide, and until it has
approved of the application. The Exchange has power to
revoke its approval. In such event the companies shall cease

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to furnish the quotations, and if they have installed tickers or
wires in the office or place of business of such person, firm or
corporation they shall immediately remove the same. This,
however, they are not required to do, "or to discontinue service
furnished by any other means, which are under restraint by
injunctions of the courts during the pendency of the injunction." In case of an application once approved and afterwards disapproved by the Exchange and a suit be commenced
against the companies on account of the continuance of the
quotations, the Exchange shall defend such suit at its expense
and pay all fines, penalties, etc., to which the companies may
be subject. In cases where an application has not been approved by the Exchange suits against the companies for' the
refusal to furnish the quotations shall be defended at the expense of the companies, which shall use diligent efforts to secure
the removal of injunctions. If the suit shall be brought
against the Exchange it shall defend at its own cost. For the
purpose of protecting the companies against the use of quotations originating on the Exchange by parties not entitled to
them the companies may prosecute suits in their own name or
that of the Exchange to prevent or stop such competitive use.
The Western Union Telegraph Company has to pay the
Exchange for the quotations $13,584 per annum in equal installments of $1,132 at the close of each month. The form of
the application is attached to the contract.
It is alleged that all persons receiving the quotations have
made applications in the form set out, except in a few instances
where persons who were receiving quotations from the companies prior to the execution of the contracts have since the
execution thereof secured temporary injunctions (the Exchange not being a party to the suits) to enjoin the companies
from withholding or withdrawing the quotations on the ground
that such persons were not reqtUired to sign such applications
or secure the approval of the Exchange.
The defendant, Clarence P. Hunt (appellant), has not made
application to either of the companies or the Exchange, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the.Case.

205 U. S.

has the Exchange consented to his receipt of the quotations.
On JUly 14, .1903, .he was receiving from the Western Union
Telegraph Company the quotations, and the company on said
day notified him of the contract between it and the Exchange,
and that under said contract the company would be required
to and would cease furnishing the quotations. Hunt declined
to make an application, but in lieu thereof) on July 31, 1903,
filed in the Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, a
petition agairnst the company to enjoin it from ceasing to furnish him said quotations. An ex parte injunction was, issued.
The company then filed its answer, and, the cause coming on
for finfal hearing on appeal and answer, decree was entered for
-it. The Supreme Court of the State reversed the decree
without deciding the merits, for the reason that the Chancery
Court should not have decided the cause on bill and answer,
but should have awaited the taking of evidence. : The cause is
now pending and the injunction is still in force, 'and that by
reason thereof only the company is furnishing Hunt the quotations. And it is alleged "that such authorized receipt and
use of said quotations by said defendant is calculated to and
in timewill, if not entirely stopped, seriously impair the value
to your orator of its quotations, and that if even one person
within the jurisdiction of this court be allowed to secure such
quotations without restrictions as to the use thereof which
your orator imposes as afdresaid, such person can furnish them'
to all the bucket shops and other persons within the United
States desiring-them, and thus entirely defeat the efforts of
your orator to prevent their use in bucket shops as a basis
of their illegal bets, and materially, impair the right of your
orator to derive a revenue from the' distribution of said quotations."
It-is further alleged that there is no adequate remedy at law,
and that "the amount fnvolved and -matters in dispute, exclusive.of interest and costs, is much more than the sum, of
$2,000." An injunction was prayed. A preliminary injunction was 'issued., 144 Fed. Rep. 511.

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The appellant filed a plea to the jurisdiction, traversing the
allegations of the bill which averred the jurisdictional amount.
A replication to the plea was filed. The court sustained the
jurisdiction. The appellant then filed an answer, in which
he alleged that the contracts with the Telegraph Companies
were illegal and void, that the Exchange had no right to require
the making of applications to it and no right to require the
companies to refuse the quotations to persons applying therefor, because such persons refused to make application to the
Exchange. He admitted that he had not made an application
to the Exchange, but had been desirous and even anxious to
pay for the use of the quotations and conform to any reasonable
rules or regulations by whomsoever prescribed. He alleged
that those stated in the appeal were not reasonable, but unjust,
oppressive and illegal. And further, that he commenced
business in Memphis as a broker, dealing in cotton, stocks,
grain and provisions, about the month of March, 1898, and
made application to the Western Union Telegraph Company,
under its designation of the Gold and Stock Telegraph Company, for its quotations by "ticker." The application was
accepted, he agreeing to pay therefor 'the sum of $25 per month.
He has continued to receive the quotations until the present,
time, and has built up and has now a considerable business,
at great expense and labor, and the value and profits of the
business depend largely upon the receipt and use of the quotations "by and through the 'ticker,' under and in accordance
with the contract." The quotations are received through
the "ticker" automatically-a specimen of which is attached
to the answer-and the letters and figures are at once put upon
a blackboard in his office for reference and use, and are used
immediately for the transaction of 'business. They indicate
New York as the place from which the quotations are sent,
the time of sending, the month the cotton has been sold for..
He has transacted no business except as a broker, as stated,
and is duly licensed under the laws of Tennessee. Every transaction made by him is evidenced by a report made to his cus-

OCTOBER TERM, '1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

tomers upon a form, a copy of which is attached to the answer.
The report evidences the consummation of the contract ahd
has upon it the fdllowing:
"All orders for the purchase or sale of any article are received
and executed with the distinct understanding that actual
delicery is contemplated where order is executed, and that the
party giving the order so understands and agrees."
Shortly after July 14, 1903, he was informed that the Exchange had required the Telegraph Company to cancel its contract with him and to take the ticker out of his office and to
cease to furnish to him the quotations, thereupon he and other
persons similarly engaged in business of broker commenced
in the Chancery Court of Shelby County the suit mentioned
in the bill. , The record and proceedings in the suit are referred
to as part of the answer. The bill in that suit prayed an injunction against the Telegraph Company from removing the
ticker or refusing to furnish the quotations as long as the company furnished them to any other person. A preliminary
injunction was granted. The Western Union Telegraph
Company, the .defendant in the suit, answered, and based its
defense substantially upon its contract with the Exchange.
Hunt, upon the authority of such contract, and upon information and belief, averred that the answer Was so filed by the
company at the request and by the direction and for the benefit of the Exchange, "and with the view and for the purpose
of asserting and setting up 'for him, and in his belief, the very
same matters and grounds and causes of action as are set up
and relied upon in this suit." Upon the hearing the injunction Was discharged and the suit dismissed'. The decree was
reversed by the Supreme Court of the State and the injunction,
continued in force. The opinion of the Supreme Court is
made part of :the answer. It appears therefrom that the
court considered that a serious question was presented by the
defense of, the contracts between the Telegraph Companies
atid the Exchange. It was said upon the defense two ques'tions arose-one of fact, whether the contract were made;

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

the other of law, whether, conceding the existence of the contracts, did "they furnish a sufficient answer to the demands
of the complainants." The court declined to pass upon either
question, regarding the record imperfect. The court continued
the injunction.
The suit is still pending in the Chancery Court, and by reason
of his contract with the company of May I, 1899,. and the. injunction, Hunt has remained in the use and enjoyment of
the ticker, "and is receiving, and the Western Union Telegraph
Company has been and is furnishing him, the continuous
quotations described in the bill and in this answer." And
it is-averred that that suit embraces the same questions of fact
and law as this present suit and is between the same parties
plaintiffs and defendants, and the decree to be
pronounced
will adjudicate and dispose of the same matters of controversy.
That suit is relied on as a bar to the present one, and it is insisted that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to grant or
issue the injunction prayed for, as "it would require and compel the violation and breach of the injunction granted and
in force in the Chancery Court of Shelby County, and the undoing of what has been done and is to be done in the course
of the said suit." The other allegations of the answer are not
mIaterial to the question now involved. A replication to the
answer was filed. The case was submitted on the pleadings
and exhibits, agreement of counsel as to certain paragraphs
of the bill, evidence taken before the court, which consisted
of the record of the suit in Shelby County, and testimony of
witnesses. It. was decreed that a permanent injunction issue
restraining Hunt in accordance with the prayer of the bill.
-Extracts from the testimony will appear in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Thomas B. Turley and Mr. William H. Carroll, for appellant, submitted:
There is no evidence tending to establish that the matter
in dispute between the parties to'this suit amounts to $2,000,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

205 U. S.

exclusive of interest and costs, and the learned trial judge
committed an error in so holding.
Board of Trade; v..The Christie Grain Co., 198 U. S. 236,
can be distinguished. The matter in controversy in the
,Christie case was not the subject-of argument or pleading.
The bill is a quia timet one, pure and simple. It is
neither alleged nor .proven that the contract between the appellee and the Telegraph Company was impaired, stopped,
impeded or interfered with. The allegation is that such
unauthorized receipt and use of said quotations by the appellant is calculated to, and in time will, if not entirely stopped,
seriously impair the value to your orator, of its quotations.
The proof established that the value of the contract between
the appellee and the Telegraph Company is the amount in
,dollars and cents received and paid. So the question is
whether the subject matter of this litigation, is that through
the fear and apprehension that unless the appellant is restrained, the value of the contract between the appellee and
the Telegraph Company will be depreciated. Thus far that
value has not been affected. The Exchange receives the price
it stipulated for, and the appellant has paid the Telegraph
Company for quotations which he receives from it.
The compensation provided for the privilege of receiving
and selling said quotations, necessarily embraces the right to
sell such quotations to persons who occupy the relation of the
appellant to the Telegraph Company, protected by the injunctive process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
This question is not analogous to the cases holding for jurisdictional purposes, that the amount involved is the value of
the(conplainant's right to conduct its business without being
subject to the 'burden of a nuisance, an illegal tax, or a threatened appropriation of property under an unconstitutional act,
of the value' of $2,000, exclusive of interest and costs. Scott
v. Donnell, 165 U. S. 107; Railroad v. Ward, 2 Black, 485;
Ins. Co. v. Morrison, 178 U. S. 262, discussed and distinguished.
Manifestly; the object sought to be accomplished by the

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

bill in this case is stopping the receipt by the appellant of
continuous cotton quotations which hle is receiving by virtue
of the injunctive process in his suit against the Telegraph
Company, now pending in the state court, and necessarily the
amount in controversy is determinable by the value to the
appellee of the accomplishment of that object. McNeill v.
Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543, 558; McDaniel v. Traylor, 196
U. S. 415, 422.
Upon the facts and circumstances of this case, the Circuit
Court of the United States, in equity, had no jurisdiction to
grant the injunction herein.
In this case appellant is not a stranger to the trust, and
therefore is not to be restrained, because he does not get
at the knowledge which he requires by inducing a breach of'
trust, nor is he using the knowledge obtained by sucha breach.He gets at that knowledge by paying for it.
The transactions on the Chicago Board 6f Trade and the
New York CottQn Exchange and the New York Stock Ex_'
change are legal transactions, and enforcible, and so far as the
appellant is concerned every transaction which he makes is a
legal transaction, within the cases adjudged' by this court.
Clews v. Jamison, 182 U. S. 461, 489.
Whether this case be viewed as a case analogous to a trade
secret, or the use of valuable information gathered by others,
upon the facts disclosed by the record, the court was without
jurisdiction to grant the final decree enjoining the appellant.
High on Injunction, 4th ed., ยง 19, p. 27.
The appellant, under the peril of a contempt proceeding, is.
deprived of the benefit of the judgment of the state court;
and the effect of -the decree is to enjoin him from enforcing
the decree of the state court.
Mr. Henry-S. Robbins, Mr. Henry W. Taft and Mr. Henry
Craft, for appellee:
The amount in dispute exceeds $2,000.
Upon this issue the burden of proof was upon appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

205 U. S.

Sheppard v. Graves, 14 How. 504, 510; Adams v. Shirk, 55
C. C. A. 25; S. C., 117 Fed. Rep. 801; Penna. Co. v. Bay, 138
Fed. Rep. 203; Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115; Gage v. Pumpelly, 108 U. S. 164; R. R. Co. v. Ward, 2 Black, 485; Ry.
Co. v. Kuteman, 54 Fed. Rep. 547; Whitman v. Hubbell, 30
Fed. Rep. 81; McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 558;
Hutchinsonv. Beckham, 118 Fed. Rep. 399; Butchers' &c. Co. v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 14 C. C. A. 290; S. C., 67 Fed. Rep.
35; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107; Amelia Milling Co. v. Tennessee Coal Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 811; Humes v. City, 93 Fed.
Rep. 857; Nashville Ry. Co. v. McConnell, 82 Fed. Rep. 65;
Smith v. Bivens, 56 Fed. Rep. 352; Lanning v. Osborne, 79
Fed. Rep. 657.
The question presented by the second assignment of error
is only whether the pendency of the prior state court suit is
a bar td relief in the suit at bar, and this, as respects jurisdiction, is not different in its nature from the question whether
in a suit in chancery the remedy is not at law. In both cases
this court has several times decided that the question thus
raised was not one of jurisdiction within the act of 1891.
Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355; Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S.
501, 507.
The objection that the court cannot grant the relief sought
because of prior state court litigation pending, or constituting
res adjudicata, does not present a 'question of jurisdiction.
Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501, 507; Huntington v. Laidley,
176 U. S. 668, 679; Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225;
Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523.
The prior pendency of a suit (not involving the court's
possession of the res) in one jurisdiction is no bar to a like suit,
even between the same parties, in another jurisdiction, and that
within this rule a stae court and a Federal court (even within
that State) are courts of different jurisdictions. Gordon v.
Gil/oil, 99 U. S. 168; Stanton v. Embrcy, 93 U. S. 548; Insurance
Co. v. Brune's Assignee, 96 U. S. 588; Merritt v. American Barge
Co., 24 C. C. A. 530; S. C., 79 Fed. Rep. 228; Shaw v. Lyman,

HUNT v' N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

79 Fed. Rep. 2; Defiance Water Co. v. City, 100 Fed. Rep. 178;
Marshall v. Otto, 59 Fed. Rep. 249; Hurst v. Everett, 21 Fed.
Rep. 218.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It will be observed that this case is like the Board of Trade
of the City of Chicago v. Christie Grain & Stock Company, 198

U. S. 236, and we therefore start w-ith some propositions established. It is established that the quotations are property
and are entitled to the protection of the law, and that the
Exchange "has the right to keep the work which it has done,
or paid for doing, to itself." It is, however, contended by'
appellant that the controversy about them that this suit
presents does not involve the value of $2,000, exclusive of
interest and costs. This is the issue pr6sented by the plea to
the jurisdiction. Appellant contends that the value involved
is measured by his contract with the Telegraph Company..
The Exchange contends that the matter. in dispute is the value
of the object sought to be accomplished by. the bill. The
Circuit Court expressed it to be "the value of the contract
between the New York Cotton Exchange and the Western
Union Telegraph Company."
On the issue presented by the plea the burden of proof was
upon the appellant, and he was required to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the amount involved was less
than the jurisdictional amount. Sheppard v. Graves, 14 How.
504; Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115; Gage v. Pnply, 108
U. S. 164; Adams v. Shirk, 117 Fed. Rep. 801. The only evidence offered by him was his contract with the Telegraph
Company in connection with evidence of the manner of his
receipt and use of the quotations. This testimony vas to the
effect that the quotations are communicated thirough a ticker,
which is a machine with a tape attached to it, that registers
the price of cotton, giving the hour, They come sometifc.i

O(TOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

not more than a quarter of a minute or a half of a minute apart,
and are copied from the tape and placed upon a blackboard,
where all can see them. When new quotations are received
the old ones are generally wiped 'out. The "ticker service
is very slow, and the value of it depends on the time it is received. After it is put upon the blackboard it becomes public
property, so far as concerns the value of it." And it was testified that a firm by the name of Ganong & Fitzgerald received
their quotations about five minutes before appellant, they
having better wire service. And also that there was a wire
running into the Memphis Cotton Exchange, and that not
quite a minute elapsed from the time the ticker registers the
market quotations to the time they areregistered on the blackboaid. in the city of Memphis and open to the public. Appellant testified that the amount of his business in cotton for future
delivery 'amounted to one-half million dollars per year, and
when he took a trade himself he was prepared to deliver the
cotton or commodity in conformity with the agreement between
himself and his customer, and goes so far as to write across
all orders that actual delivery is contemplated and understood.
A witness on the part of the Exchange testified that he was
employed by ,the Board of Trade as expert to investigate
persons 'Who pretended to be brokers, "but who were in fact
bucket shops," and was in that position for several years,
gathered statistics, made estimates of the..voliuime of business
during 1901 and 1902, and has kept -pretty well informed
ever since as to the number of bucket shops in the United
States. And he further testified that trades are carried on
in such shops in all commodities that are traded in on -the New
York Cotton Exchange, New York Stock Exchange and the
Chicago Board of Trade. 'Of the value of the right of the New
York Cotton Exchange to control the distribution of its' quotations he said: "One can, only estimate or approximate the
value of the right, for the reason that the volume of speculative
business in the country 'changes, and that changes the value
of the right. If there is a large volume of speculative business

HUNT v. N., Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in cotton the value to the New York Cotton Exchange would,
probably amount to a million dollars, while with a depressed
market it would not amount to more than $200,000 or-$300,000."
And this is the amount per year.
A superintendent of the Ekchange testified to his familiarity
in.
a general way with what is called the independent trader,
or independent trade, as distinguished from the trade or traders
who carry their transactions to the cotton exchanges of the
country, and in a measure with the volume of business done
by such persons in an approximate way.
Ie further testified that the amount of business thus diverted
from the Exchange made a difference to the Exchange of fully
one million dollars a year, and that the value of the right to
control the distribution of the quotations in the manner set
out in the bill would very much exceed $2,000.
The witness was unable to state the relafive amount of business done on the Exchange in the years 1903, 1904 and 1905,
because there was no record of the transactions kept, but he
reached the conclusion in regard to the value of the busifiess.
di'verted from the Exchange partly from the 6vidence given
by appelled and partly as to the business done by the bucket
shops. And he put the value, "in dollars and cents," of the
contract between the Exchange and the Telegraph Company,
independent of the amount of business diverted, at the amount
the Exchange received from. the Telegraph Company. The
fQllowifng colloquy took place between the witness and counsel
for appellant:
"Q. Now, Mr. King, whit time, up to this good moment'
and .hour, has that exchange failed to receiv6 the amount of
that contract, that is, for giving the Western Union Telegraph
Company the right to furnish tJhis information gathered on
the floor of the New York Cottofi Exchange?"A. It has not.
"Q. Then in short this here is nothing except fear and apprehension that unless these defen(lants'-are restrained that is,
likely to-happen, And affect th e value of the conttact?

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

"A. And the business upon the Exchange."
It is manifest that the injury to the Exchange is not the r'ate
paid by the appellant to the Telegraph Company. The purpose
of the suit is to enjoin the appellant from receiving, using or
selling, directly or indirectly, the Exchange's quotations or
permitting or maintaining any wire to his office over which
the quotations are passing, or distributing the quotations,
until he shall have acquired the right to receive them either by
contract of purchase from the Exchange, or with its consent
and approval, from one of the Telegraph Companies authorized
to distribute them. In other words, the object of the suit is
to keep the control of the quotations by the Exchange and its
protection from the competition of bucket shops or the identity
of itr business with that of bucket shops. And the right to the
quotations was declared, as we said in Board of Trade v. Christie
Grain & Stock Company, to be property, and the Exchange
may keep them to itself or communicate them to others.
The object of this suit is to protect that right. The right,
therefore, is the matter in dispute, and its value to the Exchange determines the jurisdiction, not the rate paid by appellant to the Telegraph Company. The value of the right was
testified to be much greater than $2,000. In Mississippi &
Missouri Railroad Company v. Ward, 2 Black, 485, it was decided that jurisdiction is tested by the value of the object to
be gained by the bill. To the same effect, is Board of Trade
v. Cella Commission Company, 145 Fed. Rep. 28. In the
latter suit the Chicago Board of Trade obtained a decree restraining the use of its continuous quotations by the Cella
Commission Company. It was said that the amount or value
of Such right is not the sum a complainant might recover in an
action at law for the damage already sustained, nor is he required to wait until it reaches the jurisdictional amount.
The latter declaration is supported by Scott v. Donnell, 165
U. S. 107.
Counsel for appellant do not deny that jurisdiction is determinable by the object sought to be accomplished by the bill,

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

but they assert that the value of that was speculative and
changed with the volume of business. Counsel lay great stress
on the testimony of the superintendent of the Exchange, t6
the effect that the value of the contract between the Exchange
and the Telegraph Company, independent of the business
diverted from the Exebange, is, in dollars and cents, the amount
it receives from the Telegraph Company. Upon this testimony
counsel assert the right claimed by the Exchange to be the
narrow one of preventing the appellant from receiving the continuous quotations from the Telegraph Company, which he
pays for, pending a litigation in the'state courts, and this
distinguishes the case from the Board of Trade v. Christie
Grain & Stock Company, and contend that the jurisdictional
amount has not been established, as the Telegraph Company
is fulfilling its contract with the Exchange. Of the latter
contention we have sufficiently indicated our view, and it is'
only necessary to add that because the value of the quotations
to the Exchange varies with the volume of business does not
impair the effect of the testimony that the value of its right
to control them is "much greater than $2,000." We cannot
concur in the conclusion urged by appellant that this case is
distinguishable in principle from Board of Trade v. Christie
Grain & Stock Company, either in the right asserted or in the
defense against it. Even if the cases were distinguishable,
it might still be contended, that would be of no consequence in
determining the jurisdictional amount of the matter in dispute.
But wewill consider the difference claimed to exist between
the cases. In the Christie case, it is contended, the right
asserted was "to prevent gettingat the knowledge of a trade
secret or the quotations of the market surreptitiously, and
using the knowledge so obtained," and that, it is insisted, was
the matter in controversy. ' Here," it is said,%"there is no,
violation of a duty or trust. The market quotatio"s, are not
received surreptitiously. The appellint is not depriving the
appellee of the protection of the law:" In the Christie case
the quotations were gotten and published, "il sonic way not
VOL. ccv-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

disclosed," but, it was said, as the defendants did not get them
from the Telegraph .Companies authorized to distribute them,
had declined to sign contracts satisfactory to the plaintiff
(Board of Trade) and denied the plaintiff's rights altogether,
it was a reasonable conclusion that they got, and intended to
get, their knowledge in a way which was wrongful. This,
however, was not said to limit the plaintiff's right but to express
a violation of it. The right was clearly defined to be, the right
of the Board of Trade to keep the quotations to itself or communicate them to others. And this is also the right of the
Exchange in the case at bar. It can be violated not only by
getting the quotations surreptitiously or "in some way not
disclosed," or by getting them from a person forbidden to
communicate them.
The next contention of appellant is that the court had no
jurisdiction to grant the injunction and pronounce the decree
appealed from. The only question involved in this branch
of the case, appellant says, is "whether it comes within the
provision of the Revised Statutes, ยง 720, which is to the effect
that no writ of injunction shall be granted by a court of the
United States to stay proceedings of any court except in matters of bankruptcy."
And, appellant insists, that this suit necessarily offends
that section, because under its decree he "cannot have the
benefit of the judgment of the state court without being in
contempt of the Federal court," and that he is restrained by
the Circuit Court from receiving from the Telegraph Company
what the company is forbidden to refuse him by the state
court. To sustain his contention appellant cites United States
v. Parkhurst Davis Mercantile Company, 176 U. S. 317, and
cases there referred to. Also Diggs v. Woolford, 4 Cranch,
179; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 579;. Dyall v. Reynolds, 96
'C. S.340; Central &c. Bank v. Stevens, 169 'U.S.433. These
cases do, not sustain his contention. In Central Bank v.
Stevens it was decided that a state court had no power to enjoin
a party whose rights had been adjudged by a Circuit Court of

HUNT v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States from .proceeding with a sale of property
under a decree of that court. In the other cases cited, except
Watson v. Jones, the purpose was to directly enjoin parties
from proceeding in the state courts. In Watson v. Jones was
considered what identity of parties, rights and relief prayed
for were necessary to enable the pendency of an action in one
court to be pleaded in bar in another court, and it was said:
"The identity in these particulars should be such that if the
pending case had already been disposed of, it could be pleaded
in bar as a former adjudication of the same matter between
the same parties.". The principle was also expressed in that
case, and sustained by authorities, that the possession of property by one court cannot be interfered with by another, and,
that "The act of Congress of March 2, 1793 (now ยง 720 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States) as construed in Diggs
v. Walcott, 4 Cranch, 179, and Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 625,
are equally conclusive against any injunctions from the Circuit
Court, forbidding the defendants in the case to take possession
of property which an unexecuted decree of a state court required the marshal to deliver to them." The case at bar has
not that feature, nor has it identity with the case in the Chancery Court of Shelby County. Its parties and purposes are
different. The pendency of a suit in a state court does not
deprive a Federal court of jurisdiction. Gordon v. Gilloil,
99 U. S. 168; Insurance Co. v. Brunes' Assignee, 96 U. S. 588;
Stanton et al. v. Embrey, Administrator, 93 U. S. 548; Merritt
v. American Barge Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 228- Bank of Kentucky v.
Stone, 88 Fed. Rep. 383.
The Circuit Court had jurisdiction, and its decree is
Affirmed.

