OCTOBER TERM. 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC,
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 225. Argued March 6, 7, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.
Foreign corporations can be served with process in a State only when
doing business therein, and such service must be upon an agent who
represents the corporation in such business.
Under the circumstances of this case a railroad company is not doing business in a State simply because another railroad company,. of which it
owns practically the entire capital stock, does do business therein, nor is
the latter company or its officers and employ6s agents of the former company for the purpose of service of process even though such agents may
at 'times also represent that company as to business done in other States.
There is no partnership liability under such circumstances by which the
company owning or controlling the capital stock of the other can be
brought into court' to respond for a tort by serving the latter company
with process.

case comes here upon a certificate from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Texas,
raising the question of the jurisdiction of that court over an
action brought by plaintiffs in error, Augusta A. Peterson and
Ida Peterson, the latter a minor, suing by her mother and
next friend, and both being citizens of Texas, against the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, an
Illinois corporation, hereinafter at times referred to as the
Pacific Company.
The plaintiffs in error, wife and daughter of one John Peterson, an employ6 of the Pacific Company, sought recovery for
the alleged negligent killing of said John Peterson while engaged as an engineer in its employ, at Chickasha in the Indian
Territory, on October 19, 1903. It is charged in the petition
that the Pacific Company was then engaged in carrying on
its business in the State of Texas in the name. and through
the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railroad, a corporation
of the State of Texas, hereafter at times referred to as the
Gulf Company, which latter corporation, it was alleged, was
THIS

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 365
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

an auxiliary corporation and agent of the defendant, and was
then and there dominated and controlled by it, its lines of
railroad being operated by the Pacific Company as. a part of
the Rock Island system.
It was charged that S. B. Hovey, Vice President and General Manager of the Gulf Company, residing in Tarrant County,
Texas, was also the general manager and local agent of the
Pacific Company in that State. It was also alleged that
F. E. Merfell was the local agent in Tarrant County, Texas, of
the Pacific Company, and that M.' E. Sebree was the local
agent for it in said county and State.
Service of citation was made on the defendants by serving
the parties above named as its agents in Tarrant County, Texas,
in pursuance of the statute of the State. The defendant
moved -to quash the service on the ground that neither of
the parties were such agents, and filed in support of its motion
the affidavits of each, Hovey, Merrell and Sebree, denying
such agency. Thereafter plaintiffs made application for additional process in pursuance of a later statute of the State
of Texas, to be hereinafter noticed, and charged that A,. L.
Thomas, who resides in Tarrant County, Texas, was a train
conductor engaged in handling trains over the tracks of the
Gulf Railroad in the State of Texas 'and over those of the
Pacific Railroad beyond the limits of the State, and that he
was engaged in running and handling passenger trains on the
tracks of boih said companies on both sides of the state line,
and was an agent and representative of the defendant company.,
residing in Tarrant County, Texas. It was further charged
that V. N. Turpin, who resides in Fort Worth, Tarrant County,
Texas, was a ticket agent engaged in the selling of tickets and
the making of contracts for transportation and for. and in the
behalf of the Pacific Company from the city of Fort Worth,
Texas, over the lines of the Gulf Company in th'e State of
Texas and over the line of the defendant company beyond
the line of said State, and was an agent and representative
of Jthe defendant company insaid State and county.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

These persons, Thomas and Turpin, were accordingly
served under the application for new process as the agents
and representatives of the defendant company in the said
county and State.
The defendant company filed a supplemental motion to
quash this service upon the grounds that these persons were
not the agents or representatives of the defendant company,
filing their affidavits in support of said motion. In the return
of the writ served on Hovey it was also set forth that he was
general manager of the Pacific Company, residing in Tarrant
County, Texas. The motion and supplemental motion to
quash the service was heard by the court, the motion sustained and the cause dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the
court holding that the defendant had not been properly served
with process.
Frorq the stipulated facts, documentary evidence and
testimony embodied in the bill of exceptions the following
facts, pertinent to the determination of the issues, may be
gathered:
The Pacific Company and the Gulf Company are both of
the "Rock Island System" of railroads. The second annual
report of the "Rock Island Company" June 30, 1904, shows
that it is the owner of the entire capital stock, except directors'
shares, of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad
Company, a corporation of Iowa; that company owns 695,574.75
shares of the capital stock of the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of the States of
Illinois and Iowa, and 286,349 shares of the common capital
stock of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad Company,
a corporation of the State of Missouri, and the report adds:
"Each of the two latter companies operates independently
its lines of railway and each is interested through the ownership, directly or indirectly, of at least the majority of the
capital stock, in certain subsidiary companies, each of which
operates its property independently. The lines of the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, including lines

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 367
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

formerly of the Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Company, the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway
Company, and the Rock Island and Peoria Railway Company,
together with the lines of its subsidiary companies, namely,
the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company,/aid.
the Chicago, Rock Island and El Paso Railway Company,
comprise what is known as the 'Rock Island System.'
"As the Rock Island Company is the owner of the entire
capital stock, except directors' shares, of the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railroad Company, the income of both
the companies is included in the following statement."
This report purports to be 'made by order of the board of
directors, was dated October 17, 1904, and was signed 'by
Robert Mather, President. Appended to this report as a
part of it, under the head of "Statements and Exhibits,
Rock Island System Lines," Was the following statement,
to wit:
"On page 23 of 'said report, under the heading of 'Rock
island System-State of Mileage Operated:'
"The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company:
Terral, I. T. (Red River), to Dallas, Texas ......... 126.67
Bridgeport, Texas, to Graham, Texas ............. 53.29
Texhoma, 0. T., to Bravo, Texas-New Mexico state
lin e..................
......................... 9 1.7 5
Texola, 0. T. (Texas state line), to Amarillo, Texas... 112.97
Total Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Com......................... 386.68"
pany .......
evidence a railroad folder, dated
Plaintiff also introduced' in*
July 10, 1904, on which was printed in large letters "Rock
Island System Time Table," in which appears the names of
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company;
Chicago, Rock Island and El Paso Railway Company, and
the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company; with
a list of the names and residences of the passenger and freight
agents, and a, schedule of the passenger trains on said lines.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

On the inside of the cover of the folder is a map showing the
lines of the said railroad company, so connected as to belong
to one system. Below the map is printed:
"The Rock Island System (if
America.
"The Rock Island System covers a territory which is 1,000
miles long by 1,000 miles wide, supports a population of more
than 21,000,000 people and is capable of supporting at least
four times that many. The area of this territory is as great
as the combined area of France, Germany, Italy, Spain,
Austria-Hungary, Denmark, the Netherlands, Turkey, Switzerland and Greece, and its productive capacity is greater.
"Here are produced more than half the wheat, more than
halfthe corn, and nearly Ialf the cotton, silver, and gold produced in .the United States."
The origin of the Gulf Company is thus stated in the annual
report 6f the Rock Island road, June 30, 1904:
"Consolidation of Texas Lines.
"The legislature of the State of Texas, by an act passed
March 27th, 1903, authorized the sale of the railroads and
properties of the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway
Company, extending from the Red River to Fort Worth,
Texas, with a branch from Bridgeport,- Texas, to Graham,
Texas. The Chicago, Rock Island and Mexico Railway
Company extending from the Texas-Oklahoma line near
Texhoma to the Texas-New Mexico line at Bravo; and the
Choctaw-Oklahoma and Texas Railroad Company, extending
the Texas-Oklahoma line near Texola, Texas, to Amarillo,
Texas to the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company, which had constructed a line of railroad from Dallas,
Texas, to Fort. Worth, Texas, where it connected with the
line first named above.
"In accordance with the authority granted, the properties
referred to were, by appropriate corporate action, deeded to
the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company on
December 1, 1903.

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 369
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"This consolidation permits the properties in question to
be operated by one management instead of four separate. sets
of officials, as heretofore, resulting in economy of qperation
and greater efficiency in service.
"In stating the assets and liabilities of the companies
forming the system, the holdings of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company in the bonds and capital stock
of auxiliary lines, together with loans between system -companies, have been eliminated from the liabilities and a like
reduction made in the value of the assets; the figures as stated,
therefore, represent the value of the assets and the real liability
without duplication."
Plaintiffs also introduced in evidence the twenty-fourth
annual report of the Pacific Company for the year ending
June 30, 1904, in which it is set forth:
"They have included therein operations and affairs of the
operated lines and auxiliary companies forming the 'Rock
Island System.'
"In order to make exhibits comparative the figures for the
last preceding year have been restated to meet changed conditions due to the including in this report the operation of
the auxiliary compan~ts.
"These 'lines, thus forming the Rock Island System, are
the following:
"Mileage Operated.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway ...... 6,760.74
111.50
The Chicago, Rock Island and El Paso Railway ......
386.92
The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway .........
"On page 9 of said report, under the head of 'Property'
and 'Franchises,' occur the following:
"During the year expenditures were made for construction
of extensions and completion of system lines as follows:
Fort Worth, Texas, to Dallas, Texas ............ $111,371 55
108,615 64
Yarnall, Texas, to Amarillo, Texas ........ ....
Jacksboro, Texas, to Graham, Texas ............. 32,138 96
VOL. ccv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

Red Piver to Fort Worth, Texas... : ............. 28,013 04
Texhoma (Texas state line) to Bravo, Texas ....... 9,646 03
Texola (Texas state line) to Yainall, Texas ........ 2,328 30
"In addition to the expenditures during the year as above,
there has been transferred to property account sundry amounts
expended prior to July 1st, 1903, for construction of new lines
and shops, and purchase of equipment, which have been heretofore stated in the system assets as 'Advances for Construction and Equipmont,' the property represented by such
amounts having been deeded to the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company or the Chicago, Rock Island and
Gulf Railway Company, $23,169.83.
"There has also been transferred to this account the expenditures made prior to July 1st, 1903, for the purchase of
shares of capital stock of the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and
Northern Railway Company and the Rock Island and Peoria
Railway Company, also cost of stock of the Choctaw, Oklahoma
and Gulf Railroad Company in excess of its par value and
the value of bonds of the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas
Railway Company, owned by the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company, the value of said property appearing upon balance sheets shown in prior year's report as 'Stocks
and Bonds of Constituent Companies,' $16,446,009.73.
"On page 11 of said report, under the heading 'New Lines
Open for Operation,' the following statements are made, viz:
"Additions have been made to the operated systemmileage since the last report as follows:
"By the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company,
Fort Worth, Texas, to Dallas, Texas, 33.26 miles, opened
for operation in December, 1903.
"Yarnall, Texas, to end of track west of Amarillo, Texas,
18.40 miles, opened for operation in November, 1903.
"Corrections in measurements, Red River to Fort Worth,
Texas, .83 miles.
"Operated system mileage was decreased 18.22 miles between Yarnall, Texas, and Amarillo, Texas.

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 371
205 U. S.

Statemeni of the Case.

"Fort Worth, Texas, to Dallas, Texas.-This line was
completed and the line opened for operation by the Chicago,
Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company, December 1st, 1903.
It is 33.26 miles in length, connecting with the line of the
former the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company at Fort Worth, and extending to Dallas, where, by an
agreement with the Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe Railway
Company, it has the joint use of the latter company's terminal
facilities.
"The opening of this line gives the Gulf Company direct
entrance into Dallas, enabling it to compete, for the traffic of,
that important commercial center.
"On page 12 of said report is the following statement, viz:
"System Mileage Under Construction.
"By the Chicago, Rock.sland and Gulf Railway Company:
Amarillo, Texas, to Texas-New Mexico boundary ....... 69.87
"Amarillo, Texas, to Tucumcari, N. M. The grading for
a considerable portion of this line has been done from Amarillo
westward.
"It was deemed advisable,. however, to suspend active
construction until such time as the business outlook would
warrant the expenditure necessary to complete."
Upon the hearing, counsel made an agreed statement of
facts, as follows"The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company
is a consolidated corporation, chartered under the laws of
Illinois and Iowa. It has been an existing railroad corporation
for over twenty years. In June of the year 1892 and for
some years prior to that time the said railway company
owned and operated a line of railway from the city of Chicago
in a southwesterly direction through the States of Illinois,
Iowa, Missouri and Kansas to Minco, Indian Territory. During
the year 1892 this company extended its line from Minco,
Indian Territory, in a southerly direction to the north boundary
line of Texas in Montague County.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

"The Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company
was a .corporation organized under the laws of Texas on the
15th day of July, 1892. It had an authorized capital stock
of three million dollars, in shares of one hundred dollars each,
of which seven hundred and fifty-four shares were subscribed
for at the time of its organization. Below is a list of the
names of the stockholders and the number of shares of capital
stock of this company subscribed for by each, at its original
organization.
[The list shows that of the 754 shares subscribed, 745 were
held by one of the attorneys of the Pacific Company, and of
the other 9 shares, 3 were held by other employ6s of that
road.]
"Under the charter of the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas
Railway Company, it was authorized to construct a line of
road from the north boundary line of Texas at a point in
Montague County in a southerly direction through Montague, Wise and Parker Counties; the charter being afterward
amended, authorized the construction into Tarrant County.
This charter authorized the issuance of first mortgage bonds
amounting to fifteen thousand dollars per mile for construction
and not exceeding five thousand per mile for equipment.
"When the Chicago, Rock"Island and Pacific Railway
Company constructed its line to a point near the north bank
of the Red River, north of Montague County, construction
work stopped for a period of time. The Chicago, Rock Island
and Texas Railway Company began the construction of its
line at the north line of the State in Montague County some
time after the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company stopped work at a point north of Red River. After
construction work began on the Chicago, Rock Island and
Texas Railway Company south of Red River, the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company constructed its
line from the point where work had stopped north of Red
River, to a connection with the Chicago, Rock Island and
Texas Railway Company at the state line. The Texas com-

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 373
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

pany finished the construction of its line into Fort Worth in
the latter part of 1893. Some of the same contractors who
constructed the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
from Minco south to Red River also took contracts for work
on the Texas line.
"On the 2d day of January, 1893, after the Chicago, Rock
Island and Texas Railway Company had constructed and was
operating its line as far south as Bowie, Texas, it entered into
an agreement with the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, a true copy of which is hereto attached and
marked 'Exhibit A' for identification. This agreement went
into effect immediately after it was executed, and was acted
upon and observed by said companies until the 14th day of
April, 1903, when the same was canceled under authority of
the board of directors of each company by a written agreement,
a true copy of which is hereto attached, marked 'Exhibit B'
for identification.
[Exhibits A and B are not printed, as they are the contract
and cancellation thereof, both made before the present case
arose.]
"After the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company had constructed its line, it issued first mortgage bonds
to the extent of fifteen thousand dollars per mile thereon,
and these bonds were purchased by the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company, for which it paid the Texas
line one hundred cents on the dollar. The Chicago, Rock
Island and Texas line cost a large sum of money in excess of
the amounts for which it issued bonds, which additional cost
was paid by application of money subscribed by the stockholders and by borrowing from the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company, which money so borrowed has
long since been returned with interest.
"At the time the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
-Company constructed its line to Red River there was no town
or city at that particular point, but there were towns and
cities south, east and west of there in the State of Texas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

and a railroad line, being a part of the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway of Texas, nine miles south of that point.
"When the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company was first organized its general officbs were located at
Bowie, Montague County, Texas, and remained there for
some time, until the charter was amended removing them to
Fort Worth. The first general officers elected by the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company, and their residences,
were as follows: M. A. Low, Topeka, Kansas, President;
J. C.. McCabe, Bowie, Texas, General Freight Agent, and
H. F. Weber, Bowie, Texas, Vice President, Superintendent,
Secretary and Treasurer. All these men, prior to the time
they were elected officials of the Chicago, Rock Island and
Texas Railway Company had been employed in some capacity
by the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company.
In 1893 S. B. Hovey was elected Vice President of the Texas
company and remained the Vice President and Superintendent
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company
from that date until it was sold out under an act of the legislature in 1903. Mr. M. E. Sebree, who was served with citation in this case, was, for a number of years and until the date
of its sale, trainmaster of the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas
Railway Company and assistant trainmaster of the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, with jurisdiction
.on that line up to Chickasha, Indian Territory. Prior to the
time he was employed by the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas
Railway Company he had been employed by the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company as brakeman,
conductor, etc. M. A. Low, of Topeka, Kansas, remained
the President of the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway
Company from its organization until the 8th day of November,
1900, during all of which time he was one of the general attorneys of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company.
"The Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company
never issued or sold any equipment bonds, but before it was

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 375
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

sold out under special act of the legislature to the Chicago,
Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company, it had purchased
and was the owner of between one thousand and twelve hundred freight cars of various kinds. During the time it had no
equipment of its own, it rented rolling stock from various
railway companies, but principally from the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company, and paid therefor prices
prevailing between other lines of railway in the State of Texas.
"After the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company constructed its line into Fort Worth from Bowie and
after the execution of the contract between it and the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, of date of January 2d, 1893, the most of the passenger and freight trains
running over its line from Red River to Fort Worth and from
Fort Worth to Red River were operated beyond its lines as the
trains of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company. The employ6s operating these trains were under the
control of and paid by the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas
Railway Company while working on its line, and they were
also under the control of and paid by the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company while on its line. The
equipment in the various trains went as far north as the
business justified, some of the passenger equipment going as
far as Chicago, and some to Kansas City, while the freight
equipment stopped at points beginning at Chickasha, and
from there north wherever the freight was destined. The
passenger equipment coming south stopped at Fort Worth
and the freight equipment, where the freight was handled in
carload lots, went to destination, wherever that might be.
"Whenever necessary the Texas company would operate
a local train to handle freight between Fort Worth and Red
River, but as a general rule the through service maintained
took care of this business. It operated a local freight and
passenger train between Bridgeport and Jacksboro and afterward to Graham from the time that branch was built until it
was sold out, which was several years. On the through

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

freight trains the run made by the crews was from Fort Worth
to Chickasha and on the through passenger train the run
made by the crews was from Fort Worth to Caldwell, Kansas,
these crews being handled and paid as above set forth. Outside the Pullman cars, which were in each passenger train,
nearly. all the passenger equipment used by the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company belonged to the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, for
which it paid rental, as provided for under the terms of the
contract herein first referred to.
"Defendant's witness will testify that the Texas company
paid no part of the cost of operating the Chicago, Rock Island
.and Pacific Railway, nor did the Pacific Company pay any
part of the cost of the operation of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Texas Railway, nor did either of them participate in the
earnings of the other. The relationship between the companies is fully disclosed by the terms of the contract dated
January 2d, 1893, which was observed up to the time of its
cancellation.
"The passenger conductors, brakemen and train guards wear
regular train uniforms and on the lapel of the coat are the
words 'Rock Island,' anl on the cap is the word 'Conductor,'
'Brakeman' or 'Porter.' Any member of these train crews,
while working on the line of the Texas company, may be discharged by the proper officer of that company; and while
working on the line of the Pacific Company may be discharged
by the proper officer of that company. Either company,
of course, employs additional men when needed.
. "At the time the contract of January 2d, 1893, was canceled
the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company was
operating about an hundred and forty miles of road, and the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific was operating about three
thousand three hundred miles. For a considerable time after
the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway Company was
built into Fort Worth it employed and maintained at its
Fort Worth office a train dispatcher, who gave orders for the

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 377
205 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

movement of trains over its line, but as a matter of economy
this was abolished, and the Texas company paid a part of
the salary of the train dispatcher located at Chickasha to give
orders for the movement of trains over its rails.
"On the 22d day of September, 1903, the Chicago, Rock
Island and Texas Railway Company, under authority of a
special act of the legislature known as Senate Bill No. 161,
was purchased and absorbed by the Chicago, Rock Island and
Gulf Railway Company, and since that time has ceased to
exist as a railroad or do any business as such.
"At the time the Gulf Company purchased the Texas company it had constructed and was operating a line of road from
Fort Worth in Tarrant County to Dallas in Dallas County.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company now
owns and operates three hundred and eighty-six miles of road,
all of which is located inside of the State of Texas. It does
not own any railroad outside the State of Texas. It owns
at the present time about sixteen hundred cars, including
ballast, refrigerator and cattle cars, twenty locomotives,
and eight cabooses, but does not own any passenger equipment
other than the Pullman cars which are used in each of its
passenger trains; it rents its passenger equipment from the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, and
pays therefor current rental charged by connecting lines in
Texas. The train crews on both the through passenger and
freight trains are handled in the same way that they were
when the line into Fort Worth was operated by the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company, but the Chicago,
Rock Island" and Gulf Railway Company is now operating
in many places local trains between local points in Texas.
"The following is a list of stockholders and the amount of
stock of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company
owned by each.
[The list is not printed, as the record discloses that, except
directors' shares, the stock is held for the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

"The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company
is operating under a lease that part of the line of the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company which begins at
the north boundary line of the State of Texas, extending northward to the town of Terral, Indian Territory, a distance of
about 14 miles.
"Blank passes, properly signed by different railroads,
including the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific, Texas and
Pacific, Houston and Texas Central and other lines are sometimes placed with S. B. Hovey, and when so placed he has
the permission of such line to fill in the names of parties and
countersign the pass, and when so countersigned such pass
is recognized by the line over which it is issued. The local
ticket agents of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway.
Company sell coupon tickets over the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company's line and nearly all other
lines in the United States, which tickets are duly honored
by the respective roads over which they read. The Chicago,
Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company operates only one
passenger train each way daily, between Fort Worth and
Dallas, while it operates two trains each way from Fort Worth
north. It operates also only a local freight service between
Fort Worth and Dallas, but no through freight service. Proper
officials of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company and of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company exchange reports with each other as to the amount
of exchange business done.
"No dividends were ever paid on the stock of the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company, and none have
been paid on that of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company. The net earnings of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Texas Railway Company were put into betterments and
improvements, and the same is the case with the Chicago,
Rock Island and Gulf.
"In 1897, L. G. Hastings, then secretary of the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company, reported to the

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 379
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Interstate Conimerce Commission that the Chicago, Rock
Island and Texas Railway Company was controlled by the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, through
the ownership of a majority of its bonds. In 1899 he reported it as controlled by the Pacific Company, through its
ownership of a majority of its capital stock.
"On the 2d day of August, 1904, M. E. Sebree, who resides
in Fort Worth, Texas, was trainmaster of the Chicago, Rock
Island and Gulf Railway Company, and was also assistant
trainmaster of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company between the north line of Texas and Chickasha,
Indian Territory. He is paid by the Gulf Company for the
work he does for it and by the Pacific Company for the work
he does for it. S. B. Hovey is Vice President and Superintendent of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company, and will testify that he is not connected with, nor does
he perform any service for, any other railroad.
"After making certain changes and additions, the Chicago,
Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company adopted the book
of rules issued by the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company for the control of the operation of its line, and
such rules are now in force. The cars and engines belonging
to the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company,
when in need of repairs, have the work done at its shops at
Fort Worth and Dallas, if the cars and engines are convenient to these two points; otherwise, the work is done at
some other convenient place, either on or off the line of the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, wherever
the cars or engines may be at the time the repairs are needed.
"On the 2d day of August, 1904, the Chicago, Rock Island
and Gulf Railway Company had a different president and
altogether different executive officers from any of the lines
above listed as included in the Rock Island system. The
Chicago, 'Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company does not
now and never has paid any part of the salary of any officer
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

or of any of the lines named as constituting the Rock Island
System.
"Before the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company purchased the Chicago; Rock Island and Texas Railway Company, the Chicago, Rock Island and Mexico Railway
Company and the Choctaw, Oklahoma and Texas Railroad
Company, M. E. Sebree was trainmaster of the Chicago, Rock
Island and Texas Railway Company and division trainmaster
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company,
with jurisdiction to Chickasha, Indian Territory. Since the
purchase by the Gulf Company of the above-named Texas
lines Mr. Sebree's jurisdiction extends over what were the
Chicago, Rock Island and Mexico Railway Company and the
Choctaw, Oklahoma and Texas Railroad Company, otherwise
there has been no change in his employment or jurisdiction
for the past five to ten years.
"The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company
pays a portion of the salary of a joint train dispatcher located at Chickasha, Indian Territory, under the same character of arrangement which existed between the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company and the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company.. This train dispatcher in giving orders for the handling of trains on- the
Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company is subject
to the control, direction and supervision of the executive
officers of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company as if exclusively employed by it. '
"The rails of the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway
Company on the line running from Fort Worth north connect
at the state line with the rails of the Chicago, Rock Isla'nd
and Pacific Railway Company. The point of connection is
somewhere near the middle of Red River on a bridge. At
this particular point there is no town, station or turnout,
and the trains going in either direction do not stop at said
point. It was not possible to build a town or station at the
exact point of connection."

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 381
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

,It was further stipulated as to Thomas, the conductor,
and Turpin, the ticket agent, after they were served with
process, as follows:
A. L. Thomas "was at the date of said service and is now
and has for many years been a conductor running on and
handling passenger trains for the defendant, the, Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, the Chicago,
Rock Island and Texas Railway Company, and later on the
Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company, after its
purchase of the Texas company, running and handling such
trains between Fort Worth, Texas, and Caldwell, Kansas.
That the run of said Thomas is now and has been from Fort
Worth, Texas, to Caldwell, Kansas, as aforesaid, on both
sides of the state line, and that Caldwell, Kansas, is the end
of the first passenger division on said lines north of Fort
Worth. And it is further agreed that V. N. Turpin, upon
whom process was served herein as the ticket agent of the
defendant company was, at the date of the service of said
process and has been for a long time ticket agent of the Chicago,
Rock Island and Gulf Railway Company at Fort Worth,
engaged in selling tickets for the said Chicago, Rock Island
and Gulf Railway Company, over its lines and also over the
lines of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company and all of its connections. It is further agreed that
the facts are that 'Thomas is carried on the Pacific Company's
pay roll and paid for services rendered while on that company's
line north of the Texas state line; and is carried on the Gulf
Company's pay roll and paid by the Gulf Company for services
rendered on its line south of the Texas state line; and that
Turpin is carried on the Gulf Company's pay roll alone, and
is not carried on the Pacific Company's pay roll, aid is not an
agent of the Pacific Company, unless the above st6,ted facts
make him one.',
The annual report of the Pacific Company shows that the
board of directors of said company consists of thirteen members, with an *executive committee of eight members.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 T. S.

The report of the Rock Island Company shows that the
. board of directors of said company consists of sixteen members and its financial committee of six members.
Eleven members of the board of directors of the Pacific
Company are also members of the board of directors of the
Rock Island Company. Five members of the executive
committee of the Pacific Company are also members of the
finance committee of the Rock Island Company. The officers
of the Rock Island Company, with two exceptions, are also
officers of the Pacific Company and a majority of the officers of either said companies are common to both of
them.
S. B. Hovey, upon whom service was made as aforesaid,
was also produced as a witness, and testified that at the time
of the service of citation upon him he was the Vice President
and Superintendent, of the Gulf Railroad Company, and resided at Fort Worth, Texas; that he held the same position
in the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Company before it
acquired the Gulf Company, and before that time he had been
for many years an employ6 of the Pacific Company; that
the train dispatcher of the Pacific Company, located on its
lines at Chickasha, in the Indian Territory, is also train dispatcher of the Gulf Company. He was a "joint man," as
the trains were operated by the same crews across the Texas
state line without stopping; that the movements of trains on
the Gulf route are directed from Chickasha as are those on
the line of the Pacific Company after they cross the state line
going northward. The daily reports of the cars on the Gulf
line are made to the chief dispatcher at Chickasha; that the
business could not be handled in any other way.
Settlements between the two companies are made on a
mileage basis. Reports are made by the officers of the Gulf
Company and Mr: Winchel, who is President of the Gulf Company and of the Pacific Company. The Gulf Company keeps
a fund on deposit with the Pacific Company at Chicago and
receives interest thereon; that when the defendant company

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 383
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

constructed its line of road across the Red River in 1802, the
Texas Company was organized, and the Pacific Company
furnished the money with which the road was constructed
south from Red River to Fort Worth'. Most of the directors
of the Texas Company were employ~s of the Pacific Company.
No dividends were paid on the stock of the Texas Company,
and when the Gulf Company took over its property the-directors surrendered their stock in the old company and got
back their $5.00 each; that the transfer to the Gulf Company
of the Texas road, the El Paso road and the Mexico road was
for the purpose of consolidating these roads and getting under
one management, the management of the system. The
employ6s who run over both the Pacific and Gulf lines while
in Texas are employed and discharged by the latter company;
north of the Texas line they are employed and discharged
by the Pacific Company; the operation of trains was then
as it had been before the Rock Island and Texas .road ceased
to exist; that the Pacific Company did not pay any part of
the salaries of the heads of the 'departments of the Gulf Company-none for the general office. It, the Pacific Company,
pays the train men according to the number of miles run on
its rails. The Gulf Company pays the expenses of the men
while on the rails of that company according to the number
of miles run; that the Rock Island and Gulf Company had
separate cars, servants and agents of its own; that the Gulf
Company lines booked trains daily between Fort Worth and
its northern terminus and back, which trains do not run on
the lines of the Pacific road. He also testified that the lines
mentioned on the Rock Island folder as constituents of the
Rock Island System, namely, the Chicago, Rock Island and
Mexico; the Chicago, Rock Island and El Paso; the Choctaw,
Oklahoma and Gulf; the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas;
and the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific, were not operated
as one road, but were operated separately; that the revenues
were divided just as revenues earned by the Chicago, Rock
Island and Galf and T. & P. would be divided; that they were

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

divided on a mileage basis; that no reports were made by the
Gulf Company to the head of the traffic department of the
Pacific Company; that reports were made by the Gulf Company to the President of the Gulf Company, who was also
President of the Pacific Company; that no representative
of the Pacific Company was sent to examine the books of the
Gulf Company further than just as a representative of any
other connecting line would occasionally check up business
with the Gulf Company; that the books of the latter company
had never been audited from the Chicago office; that there
was no contract between the Gulf Company and the Pacific
Company, except a traffic agreement as to the division of rates,
made by the general freight agent of each line, of the same
character of contracts which exist between the Gulf Company
and other lines with which it interchanges business; that the
Gulf Company owned about 1,500 or 1,600 freight and cattle
cars and about twenty engines, which were marked C. R. I.
and G.; the train dispatcher has no power to furnish cars on
the Gulf road "if I instruct him not to do so "; that since he had
been Vice President of the Gulf Company, he had had no
connection whatever with the Pacific Company and no duties
to perform with any other railroad than the Gulf Company;
that for traffic hauled over the two lines the Gulf Company
received the amount agreed upon by the general freight agents
in the same'manner that the Gulf Company and the T. and P.
divided the revenues; that neither road pays any part for moving freight over the other line, nor pays any part of the loss
sustained while in the hands of the other company by damage to freight; that the Gulf Company has on deposit with the
Pacific Company several hundred thousand dollars, for which
it receives six per cent interest per annum. When needed it
is checked out..
A copy of the folder of the "Rock Island System's" lines
was sent up with the record. A copy of the map shown on
the folder is printed on the freight window of the office of the
agent of the Gulf Company and calendars with that map

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 385
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

printed on them are distributed for the purpose of advertising
the system lines.
Mr. D. T. Bomar, with whom Mr. Sam. J. Hunter was on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error; submitted:
By organizing the Chicago, Rock Island and Texas Railway
Company, and through it operating the railroad in Texas,
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company
was doing its business in Texas by and through those persons
who purported to represent the sub-corporation, and the
principal corporation was legally in Texas through its said
agents, and was liable to suits in the courts of this State by
service of process upon the agents which represented it in
that business. St. Claire v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Hatcher v.
Leasing Co., 75 Fed. Rep. 368; Manufacturing Co. v. Kelly,
160 U. S. 327; S. C., 16 Sup. Ct. 307; Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
Anoka Nat'l Bank, 47 C. C. A. 454; S. C., 108 Fed. Rep. 482;
Norton v. Railroad Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 618; Interstate Tel. Co. v.
Baltimore & 0. Tel. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 49; Montgomery v.
Frobes, 148 Massachusetts, 252; Day v. Telegraph Co., 66
Maryland, 365.
Since the defendant company so completely owns, dominates
and controls the auxiliary corporation through its ownership
of the stocks and bonds of the latter company, the contract
mentioned became useless and its cancellation did not lessen
or affect the control of the 'defendant over the subordinate
corporation. It follows that the service had on the officers
and agents of the latter company was valid service on the
defendant. Buie v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., supra, also other
cases supra and the authorities there cited and reviewed.
See also the following authorities: Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197; Van Dresser v. Oregon Ry. & Nay.
Co., 48 Fed. Rep. 202; Lehigh Valley Ry. Co. v. Dupont, 128
Fed. Rep. 841; Newcomb v. N. Y. Cent. Ry. Co., 81 S. W. Rep.
1072; Oriental Invest. Co. v. Barclay, 64 S. W. Rep. 87; C. &
0. Ry. Co. v. 'Howard, 178 U. S. 153-167; Tuchband v. C. &
voL. cv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

A. Ry. Co. 115 N. Y. 437; 6 Thomp. Corp., §§ 7505, 8034,
8037; Barrow Steamship Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100.
The facts established by the agreement of counsel for the
defendant and by evidence that was undisputed, show conclusively that the Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway
Company was and is controlled and dominated by defendant
in such a way and to such an extent as to make it such a local
agent of defendant in Texas as is contemplated by Art. 1223
of the Texas statutes, and such facts show conclusively that
S. B. Hovey, F. E. Merrell and M. E. Sebree who were severally
served with process in this case were each and all such agents
of defendant as is contemplated by said statute.
The parties served with process at the time of such service
sustained to the defendant the exact relation prescribed by
Texas statute regulating such service. Such statute was
enacted to provide for the service of process in just such
cases as this one and to meet the conditions here presented.
The real question at issue, therefore, is: Had the Texas legislature the power to enact such law? If yea, then the service was valid service on the defendant. Barrow Steamship Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 107, 108; Lafayette Ins. Co. v.
French, 18 How. 404; Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369;
New England Mut. L. Ins. Co. v. Woodworth, 111 U. S. 138,
146; Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co. (Ex parte Shaw), 145 U. S.
444, 452.
Mr. M. A. Low for defendant in error:
A foreign corporation can only do business in a State with
its consent expressed or implied. The laws of Texas give no
such express consent to a foreign railway company and none
can be implied, either from its laws or its action with respect
to such corporations. It does not authorize a foreign railway
company to own, lease or operate a railway wikhin the State.
There is nothing in the record to show that the Rock Island
Company was doing business in Texas with the consent of
the State. The Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404;

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 387
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Barrow Steamship Company v.
Kane, 170 U. S. 100.
The evidence offered on the hearing of the motions to quash
the service of citations was not sufficient to, show that the
Rock Island Company was doing business in Texas. As a
matter of law, it could not own, lease or operate the railway
of the Gulf Company; nor could these companies consolidate.
On the facts stated in the petition the court will take judicial
notice that each company was a separate and independent
corporation, created under the laws of different States, and
that they could not be one company, substantially or otherwise, because they had no power to so unite.
The fact that the Rock Island Company loaned money
to the Texas Company to assist it in constructing or extending its railway, that it owned all or any part of the capital
stock of the Gulf Company, and that it exercised such authority in the selection of directors of the company as a stockholder lawfully may, does not tend to show that it was doing
business in Texas. United States v. American Bell Telephone
Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 17; Pullman Car Co. v. Missouri Pacific Co.,
115 U. S. 587, 596; Potter v. PittsburgSteel Co., 120 U. S. 649;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Jones, .155 U. S. 333, 344; Earle v.
Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 235; Central Grain &
Stock Exch. v. Board of Trade, 125 Fed. Rep. 463; St. Louis &
S. W. R. Co. v. Gate City Co-operative Co., 70 Arkansas, 10;
St. Louis & Southwestern R. Co. v. Smith, 71 Arkansas, 290;
Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S.406.
None of the citations issued in this case was legally served,
and on the facts in evidence, the court did not err in sustaining
the motion to quash.
To the validity of service of process upon a foreign corporation, it is necessary that the corporation be at the time
actually and substantially doing business in the State, and
.that the service be made upon an agent representing the
corporation with respect to the business carried on in the State,
in such a capacity that, in the absence of express authority,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

acquiescence . in the exercise of, such authority ought to be
clearly implied. The agent upon whom service is made must
sustain such a representative relation to the business transacted
by the corporation in the State. as to charge him with the
duty of accepting service: Story on Agency, § 140; St. Clair v.
Cox, 1067U. S. 350, 357; Fit2gerald Const. Co. v. Fitzgerald,
137 U. S.'98-106; Mexican Central Ry. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S.
194; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 51.8, 521, 522; Uni,ted States Y. American Bell Telephone Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 17;
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, X72 U. S. 602, 617, 619;
Earle v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 235, 240;
Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406; Central
Grain & Stock Exchange v. Board of Trade, 125 Fed. Rep. 463;
N. K. Fairbanks & Co. v. Cincinnati N. 0.. & T. P. Ry. Co.,
54 Fed. Rep. 420, 423; Strain v. Chicago Portrait Co., 126.
Fed:.' Rep. 831, 833, 834; Frawley v. PennsylvaniaCasualty Co.,
124 Fed. Rep. 259; Union Pacific R. ,Co. v. Miller, 87 Illinois,
45.
Service upon one partner or joint obligor will not confer
jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against another
partner or joint obligor.. D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165";
Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 521; In re Grossmayer,
177 U. S. 48; 1ingsley v. Great Northern R. Co., 91 Wisconsin,
380.
MR. JusTIca-DAY, after making the foregoing, statement,

deliv.ered the opinion of the court.
This- case presents a question of jurisdiction to be deter.mined as one of fact. It may be divided into two propositions:
First. Was the Pacific Company doing business in the State
of. Texas?: Secondly. If so, were the alleged agents served
with process ii the State of Texas duly authorized as such
and competent to be thus served, in such wise as to give jurisdictiop of the Pacific Company?
'The statutes which, concern service .on. corporations in the
State of Texas are as follows (Sayles' Texas Civil Statutes):

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 389
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Art. 1194, Sec. 25. Foreign, private or public corporations,
etc.-Foreign, private or public corporations, joint stock
companies or associations, not incorporated by the laws of,
this State, and doing business within this State, may be sued
in any court within this State having jurisdiction over the
subject matter, in any county where the cause of action or a
part thereof accrued, or in any county where such company
may have an agency or representative, or in the county in
which the principal office of such company may be situated;
or when the defendant corporation has no agent or representative in the State, then in the county where the plaintiffs or
either of them reside."
"Art. 1223. Foreign corporations, how served.-In any
suit against a foreign, private or public corporation, joint stock
company or association, or acting corporation or association,
citation or other process may be served on the president,
vice president, secretary or treasurer, or general manager,
or upon any local agent within this State, of such corporation,
joint stock company or association, or acting corporation or
association."
By the act of March 13, 1905, General Laws of Texas, 1905,
p. 30, an additional method of serving foreign corporations
was provided as follows:
"SEc. 2. That service may be had on foreign corporations
having agents in this State in addition to the means now
provided by law by serving citation upon any train conductor
who is engaged in handling trains 'for two or more railway
corporations, whether said railroad corporations are foreign
or domestic corporations, if said conductor handles trains
over foreign or domestic corporations' tracks across the state
line of Texas, and on the track of a domestic railway corporation within the State of Texas, or upon any agent who has an
office in Texas, and who sells tickets or makes contracts for
.the transportation of passengers or property over any line of
railway or part thereof, or steamship or steamboat of any such
foreign corporation or company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

"SEC. 3. For the purpose of obtaining service of citation
on foreign railway corporations, conductors who are engaged in handling trains and agents engaged in the sale of
tickets or the making of contracts for the transportation of
property as described in sec. 2 of this act, are hereby designated as agents of said foreign corporations or companies upon
whom citation may be served."
It is settled by the decisions of this court that foreign corporations can be served with process within the State only
when doing business therein, and such service must be upon
an agent who represents the corporation in. its business. St.
Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S.350; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S.
518, 521, 522; Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S.
406.

It is contended upon the part of the. plaintiffs in error that
the Pacific Company was doing business in the State of Texas,
because of a partnership arrangement with the Gulf Company,
or because the latter company was the agent of the Pacific Coinpan/y, or, as it is sometimes said, the representative of the
Pacific Company in the State of Texas. As to the question
of partnership,'we do not think this record presents a question
of that sort. The suit is not for a partnership liability. It is
an action upon a single cause of action for the tort of the Pacific
Company. Service is not had by serving one partner. The
real contention is that the service reaches the Pacific Company
because of the agency or representative character of the Gulf
Company.
Is it true that the Gulf Company was the agent of the Pacific
Company or its mere creature in such a sense that to serve
it is equivalent- to serving the controlling company? It is a
fact that both companies had common agents and employfs
to a certain extent, but the record shows that such employ~s
were paid in proportion to the business done for each company.
And that while in the service of the companies respectively
they were under the exclusive management and control .of
the company in whose service they were engaged, with no

PETERSON v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 391
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power to discharge or employ, the one company for the other;
and that, although the service was in a sense common, it was
kept distinct and separate in the control and payment of
the employ~s while in the separate service of the respective
companies.
It is true that the Pacific Company practically owns the
controlling stock in the Gulf Company, and that both companies constitute elements of the Rock Island System. But
the holding of the majority interest in the stock does not mean
the control of the active officers and agents of the local company doing business in Texas. That fact gave the Pacific
Company the power to control the road by the election of the
directors of the Gulf Company, who could in turn elect officers
or remove them from the places already held; but this power
does not make it the cdmpany transacting the local business.
This record discloses that the officers and agents of the
Gulf Company control its management. The fact that the
Pacific Company owns the controlling amounts of the stock of
the Gulf Company and has thus the power to change the
management does not give it present coritrol of the corporate
property and business. Pullman Palace Car Company v.
Missouri Pacific Co., 115 U. S. 587, 597.
In Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406, suit
was brought upon a contract with the Mathieson Alkali Works.
The defendant had designated no agent upon whom summons
could be served, and service was made upon two members
of the board of directors resident of the city of 'New York.
Upon motion made to set aside the service of summons a
reference was directed to ascertain whether the defendant
corporation was doing business in the State of New York.
The master reported, among other things, that the defendant
had operated a plant at Niagara Falls, but had conveyed all
its property to another corporation organized under the laws
of Virginia. That the consideration expressed for the conveyance was $1.00 and other valuable consideration, but the
substantial consideration was the entire capital stock of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

grantee, the Castner Electrolytic Alkali Company. That
the business of the defendant since said transfer was carried
on in Providence, where it had its principal place of business.
The master found that the company at the time of attempted
service was not doing business in New York. Of the effect
of the transfer of the entire stock of the new company to the
defendant the master found: "The fact that it held the entire
capital stock of the Castner Electrolytic Alkali Company, and
that the operations of that company were carried on under
the same management as before December 31, 1900, is not
material. The new corporation was a separate legal entity,
and, whatever may have been the motives leading to its creation, it can only be regarded as such for the purpose of legal
proceedings. It was that corporation alone which transacted
any business in this State, notwithstanding it may have been
for all practical purposes merely the instrument' of the defendant corporation. People v. American Bell Telephone Co.,
117 N. Y. 241;. United States v. American Bell Telephone Co.,
29 Fed. Rep. 17."
Upon exceptions the. master's report and conclusions were
affirmed and the service set aside. That -judgment was
affirmed in this court. In the course of the opinion, Mr. Justice McKenna, speaking for the court, coming to deal with
.the effect of the transfer to the Castner Company, said: "The
defendant'was competent to convey its property to the Castner Electrolytic Alkali Company and afterwards make the
locality of its own business Providence and Saltville. Whether
the transfer to the latter company was fraudulent we certainly
annot decide from this record, and the by-law which provided for a monthly meeting in New York could not of itself
keep the corporation in New York., The testimony is positive
that no 'business of the corporation was done in New York
city after the tranisfer of the Niagara Falls plant; that all of
the bbusiness of the corporation was conducted at Providence,
except of a purely manufacturing character, which was conducted at Saltville."

PETERSON v. CHICAGO; ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 393
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

So, in the case at bar, notwithstanding the ownership of the
stock in the Gulf Company by the Pacific Company, the former
company transacts the business in Texas, and is a separate
legal entity, authorized under the laws of Texas and legitimately
carrying on business there.
There is no evidence that the Pacific Company may not
lawfully hold the stock of the Gulf Company, and under the
statute of Illinois it seems to be authorized so to do. Starr &
Curtis, Ill. Stat. vol 3, p. 3229. It is true that the Pacific
Company loaned the money to build the road of the Texas
Company, predecessor of the Gulf Company. But as was
well observed by Judge (afterwards Justice) Jackson in United States v. American Bell Telephone Company, 29 Fed. Rep.
17: "For one person to supply means for another to do business
on is not the doing of that business by the former."
,-The conduct and control of the business in Texas was entrusted to the Gulf Company. As the largest stockholder
the Pacific Company had an interest in that business, but a
separate corporation had been legally created in Texas, with
authority to make contracts and control its own affairs and
carry on its own business. This separate corporation had its
own officers, a large amount of its own property, was responsible
for its contracts and to persons with whom it dealt.
. Nor do we think that the persons served with process are
agents of the Pacific Company doing the business of the company in Texas. Section 2 of the act of March 13, 1905, Laws
of Texas, 1905, p. 30, is very broad, and would seem to comprehend conductors who handle trains for two or more corporations over foreign or domestic roads across the state lines
of Texas and on the track of a domestic railroad within the
State of Texas, or upon any agent who has an office in Texas
and who sells tickets or makes contracts for the transportation
of passengers or property over any line of railroad or part
thereof, of any such foreign corporation or company; and such
companies and agents by section 3 of the act are made agents
of the. foreign corporation or company, upon whom the cita-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

tion may be served. But it is essential to the validity of such
service that the corporation shall be doing business within
the State, and that the service be upon an agent representing
the corporationwith respect to such business. Goldie v. Morning News, 156 IT. S. ubi sup.; Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Co.,
190 U. S. ubi sup.
The conductors, one of whom was served, when he crossed
the Texas line, this record shows, became the servant and agent
of the Gulf Company.' The, ticket agent sold tickets for the
Gulf Company, in whose employment he was. He- would
also sell tickets good upon its line, and over the lines of the
Pacific Company, but he transacted this business as the agent
of the Gulf Company. As to Hovey, the record fails to show
that he was agent of the Pacific -Company; on. the contrary,
it shows that he had no connection with the company, and
that his duties were confined to the affairs of the Gulf Company.
The same is true of Merrell; and as to Sebree, the record shows
that for the services- rendered as trainmaster he was paid
by each company for the service performed for it and had no
charge as-agent of the business of the Pacific Company in the
State of Texas.
We reach the conclusion that the Pacific Company was not
doing business in the State of Texas and that the attempted
service, was not upon agents of that company transacting its
business in that State in such a sense as to give jurisdiction
by service of citation upon them. The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
Dissenting: The. CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MOODY.

