KAWANANAKOA v. POLYBLANK.
205, U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

its rights from the contract and, of course, got only such rights
as the contract gave. Some other subordinate suggestions
were made, but we have disposed of the only questions that
are open here.
Judgment reversed.

KAWANANAKOA v. POLYBLANK.
APPEAL

FROM THE

SUPREME COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

HAWAII.
No. 273.

Argued March 21, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

Under Equity Rule 92, where a part of the mortgage premises has been
sold to the sovereign power which refuses to waive its exemption from
suit, the court can, all other parties being joined, except the land so conveyed and decree sale of the balance and enter deficiency judgment
for sum remaining due if proceeds of sale are insufficient to pay the debt.
A sovereign is exempt from suit, not because of any formal conception or
obsolete theory, but on the logical and practical ground that there can
be no legal right as against the authority that makes the law on which
the right depends, and as this doctrine is not confined to full sovereign
powers it extends to thbse, such as the Territories of the United States,
which in actual administration originate and change the law of contract
and property.
A Territory of the United States differs from the District of Columbia in
that the former is itself the fountain from which rights ordinarily flow,
although Congress may intervene, while in the latter the body of private
.rights is'created and controlled by Congress and not by a legislature of
the District.
17 Hawaii, 82, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Sidney M.
The owners of
premises covered
suit in equityto

Ballou, for appellants, submitted:
the equity of redemption of all parts of the
by a mortgage must be made defendants in a
foreclose that mortgage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

205 U. S.

The result of a violation of this rule is that the whole burden
of the mortgage debt will be placed on a part of the land instead
of being distributed pro rata over the whole thereof, which
would be manifestly unjust. See Detweiler v. Holderbaum,
42 Fed. Rep. 337.
The Territory of Hawaii is a municipal corporation with
capacity to sue and be sued. 1 Dillon on Municipal Corporations, § 20; 1 Thompson on Corporations, § 1.
This court has called the Territories "organized municipalities" and likened them to the District of Columbia. Talbott
v. Silver Bow Co., 139 U. S. 438, 445.
The closest analogy that can be drawn is between the Territory of Hawaii and the District of Columbia. The latter has
been held to be a municipal corporation. Barnes v. District
of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540.
Every municipal corporation may be sued.
It is entirely immaterial that the Organic Act is silent upon
the right of the Territory to sue and be sued. These powers
are inherent in all municipal as well as other corporations. In
addition to the statement from Thompson on Corporations
quoted above, in connection with the definition of a corporation, we may cite the following authorities: 2 Dillon Mun.
Corps., § 935. See also Ingersoll on Pub. Corps., p. 492;
Prout v. Pittsfield Fire District, 154 Massachusetts, 450; City
of Janesville v. Milwaukee &c. R. R. Co., 7 Wisconsin, 484.
The Territory of Hawaii cannot by its own legislative enactments exempt itself from liability to suit or prescribe any
certain class of 'cases in which alone it may be sued. The
exemption of the United States and each of the several States
from suit, except so far as is authorized by their own legislatures, has nothing to do with the corporate capacity of either
the United States or the several States, but is a mere privilege
which when waived leaves the sovereign State liable to suit
like any other public corporation. It is based solely upon
sovereignty, and the reading of any of the cases which discuss
this principle will show how inapplicable the reasoning of those

KAWANANAKOA v. POLYBLANK.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

cases will be when applied to a Territory which has no sovereignty.
But even if no relief could be had against the Territory in
this action, the mortgagee would not be entitled to a deficiency
judgment against the mortgagors. She is entitled to such a
judgment under Equity Rule No. 92 only upon a sale of the
mortgaged land and if she is not able to compel a sale of all
of that land even through no fault of her own, she cannot have
deficiency judgment though she may have a remedy in some
other proceeding.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton
and Mr. E. A. Douthitt were on the brief, for appellees:
The Territory of Hawaii cannot be joined as party respondent
in suit to foreclose a mortgage.
There is no provision of the Hawaiian laws providing for
suit against the Territory in such case as this. The only
provisions of law relating to suits against the Territory are
contained in § 2000, Rev. Laws of Hawaii, originally § 1, chap.
26, Laws 1894. This section confers a right of action against
the Territory in four different classes of cases, within none of
which does the cause at bar fall.
It is elemental, of course, that the state or sovereign cannot
be sued in its own courts without its consent; and this is as
applicable to a dependent state or sovereignty as to one which
has no suzerain or overlord. The political entity which makes
laws and creates tribunals for their enforcement, which creates
judicial remedies and legislates as to how, when, and under
what conditions rights may be litigated and remedies enforced,
manifestly cannot be sued in the courts of its creation except
by its own consent and legislative provision. In the other
case, such political entity would be subordinate to its own
creatures. Beers v. State of Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529.
The immunity of the Territory from suit save by its consent
rests upon the more easily defined basis, the practical and
common-sensd, ground that a body politic which enacts its

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

own laws and creates its own courts, defining and limiting their
jurisdiction, is of necessity exempt from the jurisdiction of
those courts save by its own consent.
In the very nature of things, the creator is not, save with
its own consent, under the dominion of its creature; the power
which creates tribunals must of necessity be superior to their
jurisdiction. If there were to be any general judicial jurisdiction over the Territory, Congress would naturally have placed
it in the Federal courts; yet § 86 of the Organic Act creating
the Federal court of local jurisdiction contains no such provision.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree affirming a decree of foreclosure and sale under a mortgage executed by the appellants to
the appellee, Sister Albertina. 17 Hawaii, 82. The defendants
(appellants) pleaded to the jurisdiction that after the execution
of the mortgage a part of the mortgaged land had been conveyed
by them to one Damon, and by Damon to the Territory of
Hawaii, and was now part of a public street. The bill originally made the Territory a party, but the Territory demurred
and the plaintiffs dismissed their. bill as to it before the above
plea was argued. Then the plea was overruled, and after
answer and hearing the decree of foreclosure was made, the
appellants having saved their rights. The decree excepted
from the sale the land conveyed to the Territory and directed
a judgment for the sum remaining due in case the proceeds
of the sale were insufficient to pay the debt. Eq. Rule 92.
. The appellants contend that the owners of the equity of
redemption in all parts of the mortgage land must be joined,
and that no deficiency judgment should be entered until all
the mortgaged premises have been sold. In aid of their contention they argue that the Territory of Hawaii is liable to suit
like a municipal corporation, irrespective of the permission
given by its statutes, which does not extend to this case.
They liken the Territory to the District of Columbia, Metro-

KAWANANAKOA v. POLYBLANK.
205 U. S.

Opinion* of the Court.

politan R. R. Co. v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, and point
out that it has been a party to suits that have been before
this court. Damon v. Hawaii, 194 U. S.154; Carterv. Hawaii,
200 U. S. 255.
The Territory, of course, could waive its exemption, Smith
v. Reeves, 178 U. S.436, and it took no objection to the proceedings in the cases cited if it could have done so. See Act
of April 30, 1900, c. 339, § 96; 31 Stat. 141, 160. But in the
case at bar it did object, and the question raised is whether
the plaintiffs were bound to yield. Some doubts have been
expressed as to the source of the immunity of a sovereign
power from suit without its own permission, but the answer
has been public property since before the days of Hobbes.
(Leviathan, c. 26, 2.) A sovereign is exempt from suit, not
because of any formal conception or obsolete theory, but on
the logical and practical ground that there can be no legal
right as against the authority that makes the law on which
the right depends. "Car on peut bien recevoir loy d'autruy,
mais il est impossible par nature de se donner loy." Bodin,
Republique, 1, c. 8. El. 1629, p. 132. Sir John Eliot, De
Jure Maiestatis, c. 3. Nemo suo statuto ligatur necessitative.
Baldus., De Leg. et Const., Digna Vox (2d ed., 1496, fol. 51b.
Ed. 1539, fol. 61).
As the ground is thus logical and practical, the doctrine is
not confined to powers that are sovereign in the full sense of
juridical theory, but naturally is extended to those that in
actual administration originate and change at their will the
law of contract and property, from which persons within the
jurisdiction derive their rights. A suit presupposes that the
defendants are subject to the law invoked. Of course it cannot
be maintained unless they are so. But that is not the case with
a territory of the United States, because the Territory itself
is the fountain from which rights ordinarily flow. It is true
that Congress might intervene, just as in the case of a State
the Constitution does, and the power that can alter the Constitution might. But the rights that exist are not created by
VOL. cv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

Congress or the Constitution, except to the extent of certain
limitations of power. The District of Columbia is different,
because there the body of private rights is created and controlled by Congress and not by a legislature of the District.
But for the Territory of Hawaii it is enough to refer to the
organic act. Act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, §§ 6, 55; 31 Stat.
141, 142, 150; Coffield v. Hawaii, 13 Hawaii, 478. See further
Territory of Wisconsin v. Doty, 1 Pinney, 396, 405; Langford
v. King, 1 Montana, 33; Fisk v. Cuthbert, 2 Montana, 593, 598.
However it might. be in a different case, when the inability
to join all parties and to sell all the land is due to a conveyance
by the mortgagor directly or indirectly to the Territory the
court is not thereby deprived of ability to proceed.
Decree affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

concurs in the result.

THE WINNEBAGO.1
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Nos. 218, 219.

Argued February 28, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

A state law will not be held unconstitutional in a suit coming from a state
court at the instance of one whose constitutional rights are not invaded,
because as against a class making no complaint it might be held unconstitutibnal.
Whether a state lien statute, otherwise constitutional, applies to vessels
not to be used in the waters of the State; on whose credit the supplies
were furnished; whether the lien was properly filed as to time and place;
and what the effect thereof is as to bona fide purchasers without notice,
are not Federal questions, but the judgment of the state court is final and
conclusive on this court.
Whether a state lien statute is unconstitutional as permitting the seizure
and sale of a vessel and the distribution of the proceeds in conflict with
1 Docket titles: 218, Iroquois Transportation Company, Claimant of the
Steamer "Winnebago," v. De Laney Forge and Iron Company; 219, Same

v. Edwards.

