OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

the Constitution of the United States. The Circuit Court
held that the court rendering the first decree had jurisdiction,
to determine the ownership of the ore bodies underneath the
surface of the Skookum claim. The court thus really decided
a question of res jidicata between the parties upon general
principles of law. And it does not convert the decision into
one involving the construction and application of the Constitution of the United States to aver, argumentatively, that
to give such effect to a former adjudication under the circumstances amounts to depriving a party of due process of
law.

We are of opinion therefore that the case does not come
within the fifth section of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act as
one directly appealable to this court.
The writ of error is dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
this court.

ROCHESTER RAILWAY COMPANY vi.CITY OF ROCHE STER.
ERROR TO THE SU~PREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 156.

Argued January 14. 15. 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

Although the obligations of a legislative c6ntract granting immunity from
the exercise of governmental authority are protected by the Federal
Constitutioii from impairment by the State, the. contract itself is not
property which as such can be transferred by the owner to another, but
is personal to him with whom it is made and incapable of assignment,
unless by the same or a subsequent law the State authorizes or directs
such transfer; and so held as to a contract of exemption with a street
railway company from assessments for paving between its tracks.
The rule that every doubt is resolved in favor of the continuance of governniental power, and that clear and unmistakable evidence of the intent
to part therewith is required, which applies to determining whether a legislative contract of exemption from such power was granted also applies to
determining whether its transfer to another was authorized or directed.
A legislative -ithority to tiansfer the estate, property, rights, privileges

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U.S.

2.37

Statement of the Case.

and franchises of a corporation to another corporation' does not authorize
the transfer of 'a legislative contract of immunity from assessment.
Where a corporation incorporates under a general act which creates certain
obligations and regulations, it cannot receive by transfer from another
corporation an exemption which is inconsistent with its'own charter
or with the Constitution or laws of the State then applicable, even though
under legislative authority the exemption is transferred by words'which
clearly include it.
Although two corporations may be so united by. one of them h6lding the
stock and franchises of the other, that the latter may. continue to exist
and also to hold an exemption under legislative contract, that is not the
case where its stock is exchanged for that of the former and by operation
of law it is left without stock, officers, property or franchises, but under
such circumstances it is dissolved by operation of the law which brings
this condition into existence.
182 N. Y. 116, affirmed.

THE defendant in error brought an action against the piaintiff in error, a street surface railroad corporation, hereiliafter
called the Rochester Railroad, to recover $18,274.02, the
expense of making new pavements of two streets within the
space between the tracks, the rails of the tracks and two feet
in width outside the tracks of the railroad. The action was
brought under section 98 of chapter 39 of the General Laws
of New York, which was enacted in 1890, and is as follows:
"Every street surface railroad corporation, so long as it shall
continue to use any of its tracks in any street, avenue or public
place, in any city or village, shall have and keep in permanent
repair that portion of such street, avenue or public place between its tracks, the rails of its tracks and two feet in width
outside of its tracks, under the supervision of the proper local
authorities and whenever required by them to do so and in
such manner as they may prescribe. In case of the neglect
of any such corporation to make pavemteits or repairs after
'the expirationi of thirty days' notice to do so the local ,authorities may make 'the same at the expense of such corporation.
."
The Rochester Railroad was incorporated on February 25,
1890, under a law of New York enacted May 6, 1884. Chap.
252. Laws of New York, 1884. That law authorized the

I
OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

formation of street surface railroad corporations and provided that they should "have all the powers and privileges
granted and be subject to all the liabilities imposed by this
act." Among the liabilities was that imposed by section 9
of the act, which is as follows:
"Every such corporation incorporated under, or constructing, extending, or operating a railroad constructed -or extended, under the provisions of this act, within the incorporated cities and villages of this State, shall also, whenever
and as required and under the supervision of the proper local
authorities, have and keep in permanent repair the portion
of every street and avenue between its tracks, the rails of
its tracks and a space of two feet in width outside and adjoining the outside rails of its track or tracks, so long as it shall
continue to use such tracks, so constructed, under "he pro-visions of this act. In case of the neglect of such corporations
to make such pavement or repairs the local authorities may
make the same at the expense of'such corporation after the
expiration of thirty days' notice to do so."
Section 18 of the act provides that "all acts and parts of
acts, whether general or special, inconsistent with. this- act
are hereby repealed, but .,nothing in this act shall
interfere with or repeal or invalidate any right heretofore
acquired under the laws of this State by any horse railroad
company or affect or repeal any right of, any existing street
surface railroad company to construct, extend, operate and
maintain its road in accordance with the terms and provisions
of its charter and the acts amendatory thereof."
The Rochester Railroad Cbmpany was incorporated for the
purpose of acquiring the property of the Rochester City and
Brighton Railroad Company, hereinafter called the Brighton
Railroad. The Brighton Railroad was incorporated March 5,
1868, under a general law of the State of New York. Chap.
140, Laws of 1850. That law contained no provision respecting the repairs of streets, and, differences having arisen between
the Brighton Railroad and the city, as to the extent of the

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

239

Statement of the Case.

burden of such r(epairs properly to be borne by the railroad,
they joined in an application to the legislature for the enactment of a law which should regulate that and other subjects.
Such a law was enacted February 27, 1869; and its fifth section
was as follows:
"Said company shall put, keep and maintain the surface
of the streets inside the rails of its tracks in good and thorough
repair, under the direction of the committee. oin streets and
bridges of the common council of said city of Rochester;
but whenever any of said streets are, by ordinance or otherwise, permanently improved, said company shall not be
required to make any part or portion, of such improvement,
or bear any part of, the expense thereof, but it shall make its
rails in such street or streets conform to the grade thereof."
On the twenty-fifth day of February, 1890, the Brighton
Railroad duly executed and delivered a lease of its property,
franchises, rights and privileges, for the unexpired term of
its charter, to the Rochester Railroad, which accepted the
lease and took possession of the property. Subsequently,
in the same year the Rochester Railroad acquired the pntire
capital stock of the Brighton Railroad. The acquisition of
stock was in pursuance of the authority contained in chapter 254 of 'the Laws of New York of 1867, which, as amended
by chapter 503 of the Laws of 1879, is as follows:
"Any railroad corporation created by the laws of this State,
or its successors, being the lessee of the road of any other
railroad corporation, may take a surrendbr or transfer of
the capital stock of. the stockholders, or any of them, in. the
corporation whose road is held under lease, and issue in exchange therefor the like additional amount of its own capital
stock at par, or on such other terms and conditions as may
be agreed upon between the two corporations; and whenever
the greater part of the capital-stock of any such corporation
shall have been so surrendered or transferred, he directors
of the corporation taking such surrender or transfer shall
thereafter, on a resolution electing so to do, to be entered

OCTOBER TERM; 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

on their minutes, become ex officio the directors of the corporation whose road is so held under lease, and shall manage
and conduct the affairs thereof, as provided by law; and
whenever the whole of the said capital stock shall have been
so surrendered or transferred, and a certificate thereof filed
in the office of the Secretary of State, under the common seal
of the corporation to whom such surrender or transfer shall
shall have been made, the estate, property, rights, privileges
and franchises of the said corporation- whose stock shall have
been so surrendered or transferred shall thereupon vest in
and be held and enjoyed by the said corporation, to whom
such surrender or transfer shall have been made, as fully
and entirely, and without change or diminution, as the same
were before held and enjoyed, and be managed and controlled
by the board of directors of the said corporation to whom such
surrender or transfer of the said stock shall have been made,
.and in the corporate name of such corporation. The rights
of any stockholder not so surrendering or transferring his
stock shall not be in any way affected hereby, nor shall existing liabil'ities or the rights of creditors of the corporation,
where stock shall have been so surrendered or transferred,
be in any way affected or impaired by this act."
Subsequently, the Rochester Railroad duly obtained permission to convert the road into an electric trolley road,
expended large sums of money in doing so, and, in the acquisition of the stock of the Brighton Railroad and the conversion of its road into an electric road, relied upon the provisions of the act of 1869 as a contract_ exempting it, with
respect to the streets covered by the tracks of the Brighton
Railroad, from other street repairs than those therein described. The city acquiesced in this view until October,
1898, when, upon the suit of an owner of adjoining property,
the Court. of Appeals held that under section 9 of the Act of
1884 and section 98 of chapter 39 of the General Laws, which
were regarded as substantially the same, the Rochester Railroad was bound to.bear the expense of a new pavement on

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

241

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the location acquired from the Brighton Railroad. Conway v.
Rochester, 157 N. Y. 33. Subsequently, the city repaved two
streets which were within the location acquired and operated
by the Brighton Railroad, prior to the passage of the Act of
1884, and, in obedience to the decision in the Conway case,
assessed against the Rochester Railroad its share of the ex-;
pense of pavement and brought this action to recover the
amount of the assessment. It was set up in defense of the
action that by the Act of 1869, the State of New York had
entered into an inviolable contract with the Brighton Railroad,
exempting it from the expense of pavement, that the contract
had passed with the property of the Brighton Railroad to
the Rochester Railroad and that the assessment was in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. The contentions
of the Rochester Railroad were denied by the Court of Appeals
of New York, 182 N. Y. 116, which held, first, that the statute
mentioned did not constitute a contract between the State
and the railroad company, and, second, that if it did, the
exemption granted by the statute was personal to the Brighton
Railroad and did not pass to the Rochester Railroad. The
case was remanded to the Supreme Court. and a judgment
entered pursuant to the remittitur from the Court of Appeals,
and by writ of error that judgment is brought here for review.
Mr. Charles J. Bissell, with whom Mr. William C. Trull and
Mr. Joseph S. Clark were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The general railroad acts, in imposing liability upon the
plaintiff in error and the railroad and property of the plaintiff
in error for the permanent improvement of the streets mentioned in the complaint, impair the obligation of the contract
existing between the plaintiff in error, and the State of New
York, and the city of Rochester, relieving plaintiff in error
from liability to pay or bear any portion of such expense.
The company accepted the franchise and acted under it for,
many years, extending its road and complying with all the
conditions of the act of 1869. This property right was trailsVOL.

McCV.16

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

ferred to the plaintiff in error, under the merger acts, which
accepted the provisions and expended upon the faith thereof
nearly four millions of dollars. Under the practical construction placed upon the contract by the state and city authorities,
extending from 1869 to 1897, no question. was raised that the
railroads were exempted from paving between the tracks and
two feet outside, in all the streets in which the franchise was
obtained and the road constructed; prior to the date of the
passage of the General Street Railroad Act of 1890, under
which, as construed by its highest court, the State now seeks
to strike down benefits annexed to this franchise, and enforce
to the letter the burdens imposed by it.
This cannot be done. Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50;
Detroit v. Railway Co., 184 U. S. 368; Cleveland v. Railway-Co.,
194 U. S. 517; Pearsallv. Gr. Northern Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 646;
L. S. & M. S. R. R. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 694; New Jersey
v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331;
McGee v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95
U. S..679; Asylum v. New Orleans, 105 U. S. 362; Powers v.
D.The
G. H.
& M. Ry. Co., 201 U. S. 543.
court
erred in holding that even if the act
of 1869,
together with the ordinances of 1862 and 1869, constituted a
contract, it was personal to the Rochester City & Brighton
Railroad Company, and did not pass to the plaintiff in error,
under the lease, followed by the merger, made pursuant to the
provisions of the act of the legislature of the State of New
York, chapter 254 of the Laws of 1867. and chapter 503 of the
Laws of 1879, the latter act amending the act of 1867.
The merging comp4ny, the plaintiff in error, took everything
which the lessor had by the same title and to the same extent
as any stockholder purchasing the entire stock would take it,
only the merging company took title to all the property,
privileges, etc., as well as to the stock. That everything was to
pass to the merging company was clearly the legislative intent.
Each corporation continued in life, the lessor corporation,
although it had parted.with all its property, as well as the

ROCHESTER RAIIWAY CO. '. ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

943

Argument for Defendant in Error.

lessee corporation which acquired it. In re New York Elec.
Co., 133 N. Y. 690; Morgan v. Louisiana,93 U. S. 217; L. &
N. R. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244; C. & 0. R. R. Co. v.
Virginia, 94 U. S.718; C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Miller, 114 U. S.176;
Wilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319,
and other cases discussed and applied.
In the light of all these cases, giving to them, all their full
force and effect and construing the grant to the Rochester
City & Brighton Railroad Company of an exemption from
paying for new pavements, as a privilege personal to that
company, the same legislature, the same power that conferred
the privilege, expressly provided in the Merger Acts of 1867
and 1879, that that particular privilege should pass to any
merging company which might thereafter comply with the
provisions of the Merger Acts.
The Rochester Railway Company was a merging corporation
contemplated by the statutes, and when it acquired the entire
capital stock of the Rochester City & Brighton Railroad Company, then h01d under lease, and filed the certificate required
by the Merger Acts, it acquired all the estate, property, rights,
privileges and franchises of the Rochester City & Brighton
Railroad Company, and now holds them as "fully and entirely
and without change or diminution, as the same were before
held and enjoyed," and that directly within the meaning and
the authority of the several cases examined and digested under
this head.
Mr. William B. Webb and Mr. Benjamin B. Cunningham for
defendant in error:
The alleged immunity from taxation being personal to the
Rochester City & Brighton Railroad Company could not be
acquired by the plaintiff in error by lease or purchase, of said
company's property and franchises, unless with the permission
of the legislature of the State of New York. The decision of
the state court, that the state statutes did not permit this
immunity to pass to plaintiff in error, was based upon the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 4906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

struction of state statutes, and no Federal question is pre-

sented.

However, the decision of the state court accords with

the construction placed by this court upon similar statutes.
The decision of the state court that the alleged immunity was
personal and did not pass to the plaintiff in error, is correct, and
this court will agree with a state court in its construction of a
state statute, whenever the question decided is balanced with
doubt. Mead v. Portland,200 U. S. 148; Water Works Co. v.
Tampa, 199 U. S. 241.
The settled doctrine of this court is that a grant to a corporation of the franchises, rights and privileges of a former corporation does not operate to transfer an immunity from taxation. Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. Hewes, 183 U. S. 66; Phanix Fire &
Marine Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Wilmington &c.
R. ?. Co. v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S 279; Pickard v. East Tenn. &c.
R. R. Co., 130 U. S. 637; Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Miller.
114 U. S. 176.
Plaintiff in error was incorporated under an act which provides that it shall be subject to all liabilities imliosed thereby,
that it shall pave between its tracks
one of which liabilities is:
and two feet outside thereof. It acquired its corporate life
under this act, and accepted its corporate capacity and leased
the property and franchises of the Rochester City & Brighton
Company subject to the provisions and liabilities of the act
under which it was incorporated.
The act of 1884, under which plaintiff in error was incorporated, modified ch. 503 of the Laws of 1879, so as to forbid a
corporation formed under the Laws of 1884 to acquire by lease
or purchase any immunity from paying the costs of paving
between the tracks and two feet outside of the tracks of the
railroad operated by it.
A corporation is bound by the provisions of the act under
which it is incorporated, and that when it has taken advantage
of the provisions of a statute granting it corporate capacity,
it assumes all liabilities arising therefrom. Grand Rapids &
Indiana Ry. Co. v. Osborn, 193 U. S. 17.

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

245

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

By the judgment of the highest court of the State of New
York, the city of Rochester was allowed to recover from the
Rochester Railroad, a street surface railroad corporation,
the cost of laying new pavements on the parts of two streets
which lay between the tracks, the rails of the tracks and two
feet outside of the tracks of the railroad. This recovery was
had under a statute of New-York, whichrequired such railroads
to keep that part of the street over which their tracks ran in
permanent repair. The requirement of permanent repair
includes the duty of laying new pavements.. Conway v.
Rochester, 157 N. Y. 33.
The Rochester Railroad, not denying its liability in ordinary
cases to bear the expense of pavhg, asserts that, with respect
to the two streets in question, it was exempted from that
burden by contract with the State of New York, made with
its predecessor in title, the Brighton Railroad, and transferred
to it with the title to the property of that railroad. The
contract relied upon is found in a law enacted in 1869, for the
benefit of the Brighton Railroad, which relieved that road
from the burden of pavement of any part of the streets in
which its tracks were situated. The Rochester Railroad
claims that the law of New York, so far as that law imposes
upon it the cost of the pavement of the streets in question,
was in violation of that provision of the Constitution of the
United States which forbids a State to pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
The Brighton Railroad was incorporated in 1862, under
the general law of 1850, which contained no provision with
respect to the railroad's share of street repairs. Until the
enactment of the law of 1884, under which the Rochester Railroad, was subsequently incorporated, there was no general
law regulating the apportionment between street railroads
and municipalities of the expense of such repairs, and 'the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

question was determined in individual cases either by agreement or a special law. Differences having arisen between
the Brighton Railroad and the city of Rochester as to the
share of the expense of street repair which ought to be borne
by the railroad, they joined in a request for legislation which
would settle this and other disagreements. In response to
that request the law of 1869 was enacted. The fifth section
of the law, after providing that the railroad should put and
keep the surface and street inside of the rails of its tracks
in repair, enacts that: "Whenever any of said.streets are by
ordinance or otherwise permanently improved said company
shall not be required to make any part or portion of such
improvement or bear any part of the expense thereof."
This law obviously, as held by the Court of Appeals, exempted the railroad from the expense of new pavements,
which is the expense sought to be recovered in this action.
This was the effect conceded to the statute by the city for
the whole time during which the railroad property was owned
and operated by the Brighton Railroad, and even after it
parted with the property, and until the decision in Conway v.
Rochester, 157 N. Y. 33, in 1898. Whether this statute was a
contract between the State of New York and the Brighton
Railroad inviolable by the Federal Constittution, and if so,
whether. its .benefits have been waived or it has been lawfully
modified or repealed by virtue of the powers reserved by the
constitution or laws of New York, are questions which have
been much argued at the bar. We do not deem it necessary
in this case to decide those questions, and therefore put out
of view many facts found in the record which were deemed
by both parties to be relevant to them. We assume, for the
purpose ofour decision, that there was a contract exempting
the Brighton Railroad from the expense of street pavements,
and that the contract could not constitutionally be impaired
)y the State of New York, and that its benefits have not been
waived.
It becomes therefore necessary to inquire whether the

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
.205 U. S.

247

Opinion 6f the Court.

contract has been transferred with the property of the Brighton
Railroad to the Rochester Railroad, the plaintiff in error.
The Rochester Railroad was incorporated for the purpose
of acquiring the property of the Brighton Railroad, which
was accomplished by a lease of the property, franchises, rights
and privileges of the Brighton Railroad, followed by the
purchase of its capital stock. This was done under the authority of a statute, which provided that a railroad corporation,
being the lessee of the property of another railroad corporation,
might acquire the whole of the capital stock of the latter,
and in such a case its "estate, property, rights, privileges,
and franchises should vest in and be held and enjoyed by"
the purchasing corporation. It is contended that the effect
of the transfer under this law is to vest in the Rochester Railroad the exemption from the expense of street pavement
which the Brighton Railroad enioyed through • the contract
with the State of New York. This contention presents the
question to be decided.
This court has frequently had occasion to decide whether
an immunity from the exercise of governmental power which
has been granted by contract to one, has by legislative authority been vested in or transferred to another, and in the
decisions certain general principles, which control in the
determination of the case at bar, have been established.
Although the obligations of such a contract are protected
*by the Federal Constitution from impairment by the State,
the contract itself is not property which, as such, can be
transferred by the owner to another, because, being personal
to him with whom it was made, it is incapable of assignment.
The person with whom the contract is made by the State
may continue to enjoy its benefits unmolested as long as he
chooses, but there his rights end, and he cannot by any form
of conveyance transmit the contract or its benefits, to a successor. Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217; Wilson v. Gaines,
103 U. S. 417; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Palmes,
109 U. S. 244; Picard v. Tennessee &c., 130 U. S. 637; St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Louis &c.. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Norfolk & Western Railroad v. Pendleton, 156 U. S. 667. But the State, by virtue
of the same power which created the original contract of
exemption, may either by the same law, or by subsequent
laws, authorize or direct the transfer of the exemption to a
successor in title. In that case the exemption is taken not
by reason of the inherent right of the original holder to assign
it, but by the action of the State in authorizing or directing
its transfer. As in determining whether a contract of exemption from a governmental power was granted, so in determining whether its transfer to another was authorized
or directed every doubt is resolved in favor of the continuance
of the governmental power and clear and unmistakable evidence
of the intent to part with it is required.
Keeping these fundamental principles steadily in mind,
we proceed to inquire whether the State of New York has
authorized or directed the transfer from the Brighton Railroad
to the Rochester Railroad of the contract of exemption.
A legislative authorization of the transfer of "the property
and franchises," Morgan v. Louisiana, ub. sup.; Picard v.
Tennessee &c. Co., ub. sup.; of "the property," Wilson v.
Gaines, ub. sup.; Louisville & Nashville R. R. ub. sup.; of
"the charter and works," Memphis &c. Railroad Co. v: Commissioners, 112 U. S. 609; or of "the rights of franchise and
property," Norfolk & Western Railroad Co. v. Pendleton,
ub. sup., is not sufficient to include an exemption from the
taxing or other power of the State, and it cannot be contended
that the word "estate" has any larger meaning. It is, however, argued that the word "privileges" is sufficiently broad
to embrace within its meaning such an exemption, and that
when it is added to the other words the legislative intent to
transfer the exemption is clearly manifested, and that the
words of the law under consideration, "the estate, property,
rights, privileges and franchises," indicate the purpose to vest
in the purchasing corporation every asset of the selling corporation which is of conceivable value. There is authority

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

24.9

Opinion of the Court.

sustaining this position, which cannot be set aside without
examination.
In the case of Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244, it appeared
that the charter of the Northeastern Railroad Company
granted by the State of South Carolina originally contained
no exemption from taxation, but that by amendment to the
charter some years later the real estate and stock of the company were exempted from all taxation during the continuance
of its charter. Subsequently, the legislature granted the
charter of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company,
and provided that "all the powers, rights and privileges granted
by the charter of the Northeastern Railroad Company are
hereby granted to the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company." The State of South Carolina attempted to tax the
stock and property of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad
Company, and the validity of that taxation was the question
in the case. The court held that the powers, rights and
privileges granted to the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad
Company were those contained in the amendment of the
charter, as well as those contained in the original charter,
and said, by Mr. Justice Hunt: "All the 'privileges,' as well
as the powers and rights, of the prior company were granted
to the latter. A more important or more comprehensive
privilege than a perpetual immunity from taxation can scarcely
be imagined. It contains the essential idea of a peculiar
benefit or advantage, of a special exemption from a burden
falling upon others." Upon this reasoning it was held that
the stock and real estate of the Cheraw and Darlington Railroad Company were exempt from taxation. See Gunter v.
Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S. 273
In Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 718,
it was said that an act conferring upon a railroad corporation
"the benefits of the charter" of another corporation which
had an immunity from taxation, and "the rights, privileges,
franchises and property" of another corporation, which when
formed would have the "rights, privileges and franchises

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. 8.

and property" of the corporation holding the immunity,
was sufficient to transfer the immunity from taxation. But
this expression of opinion was unnecessary'to the decision
of the case, which merely decided that where a railroad corporation acquired the property of another railroad corporation, to which was attached an immunity from taxation,
that immunity did not extend beyond the property thus
acquired. In Southwestern Railroad Company v. Georgia,
92 U. S. 665, where a statute allowed the Muscogee Railroad
to unite with the Southwestern Railroad into one company,
under the charter of the latter, and it was provided that "all
the rights, privileges and property [of the Muscogee Railroad
Company] shall be part and parcel of the Southwestern Railroad," it was held that the immunity from taxation enjoyed
by the Muscogee Railroad passed with its property to the
Southwestern Railroad.
In Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 139, it was held that a
statute conferring u)on a railroad corporation "all the rights,
powers and privileges" of another railroad corporation, and
"all the powers and privileges" of a third railroad corporation
included the immunities from taxation enjoyed respectively
by the latter corporations, the ground of the decision being
that an exemption from taxation is, in the common acceptation of the term, a privilege.
If the authority of these four cases, supported by some
dicta which need not be cited, remained unimpaired, it would
justify the opinion that a legislative transfer of the "privileges"
of a corporation includes an exemption from the taxing or
other governmental power granted by a contract with the
State. But other and later cases have essentially modified
the rule which may be deduced from them.
In the case of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Company v.
Miller, 114 U. S. 176, it was held that the foreclosure of
a mortgage on railroad property under the provisions of a
statute which authorized the purchaser under a foreclosure
sale to become a corporation, and -provided that Iit should

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U.

251

Opinion of the Court.

"succeed to all such franchises, rights and privileges" as were
possessed by the mortgagor company, did not vest in the
purchasing corporation an immunity from taxation.
In Picart v. East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia Railroad
Company, 130 U. S. 637, Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the
opinion of the court, said:
"The later, and, we think, the better opinion, is that unless
other provisions remove all doubt of the intention of the
legislature to include the immunity in the term 'privileges,'
it will not be so construed. It can have its full force by
confining it to other grants to the corporation."
In Wilmington & Weldon Railroad Company v. Alsbrook,
146 U. S. 279, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, in delivering the opinion
of the court, said on page 297: "We do' not deny that exemption from taxation may be construed as included in the word
'privileges,' if there are other provisions removing all doubt
of the intention of the legislature in that respect."
In Keokuk & Western R. R. Co. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301,
Mr. Justice Brown, in delivering the opinion of the court,
said: "Whether under the name 'franchises and privileges'
an immunity from taxation would pass to the new company
may admit of some doubt, in view of the decisions of this
court, which, upon this point, are not easy to be reconciled."
These conflicting views were before the court in Phenix
Fire & Marine Insurance Company v. Tennessee, 161 U. S.
174. The plaintiff in error in that case claimed to have an
immunity from taxation by virtue of a provision in its charter
granting it "all the rights and privileges" of the De Soto
Insurance Company, which had an immunity from taxation
by virtue of a provision in its charter. granting it "all the
rights, privileges and immunities" of the Bluff City Insurance
Company, whose charter contained an expressed immunity
from taxation.- Mr. Justice Peckham, in delivering the
opinion of the, court, stated the question for decision in these
words: "Is immunity from taxation granted to plaintiff in
error under language which grants 'all the rights and privileges'

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

of a company which has such immunity?
Much significance
was given to the fact that the word "immunity," which
clearly includes an exemption, was used in the charter of the
De Soto company and not used in the charter of the plaintiff
in error, granted seven years later. But the decision was
not rested on this circumstance, although the omission was
thought to cast a grave doubt upon the plaintiff's claim.
The opinion reviews all the cases, cites the foregoing quotations from the opinions of Mr. Justice Brown, Mr. Justice Field
and of the Chief Justice, and, after saying "There must be
other language than the mere word 'privilege' or other provisions in the statute removing all doubt as' to the intention
of the legislature before the exemption will be admitted,"
concludes that "If this were an' original question we should
have no hesitation in holding that the plaintiff in error did
not acquire the exemption from taxation claimed by it, and
we think at the present time the weight of authority, as well
as the better opinion, is in favor of the same conclusion which
we should otherwise reach."
In Gulf & Ship Island Railroad Company v. Hewes, 183
U. S. 66, Mr. Justice Brown, in delivering the opinion of the
court, said, citing this case as-authority: "The better opinion
is that a subrogation to the 'rights and privileges' of a former
corporation does not include an immunity from taxation."
We think it is now. the rule, notwithstanding earlier decisions and dicta to the contrary, that a statute authorizing
or directing the grant or transfer of the "privileges" of a
corporation, which enjoys immunity from taxation or regulation, should not be interpreted as including that immunity.
We, therefore, conclude that the words "the estate, property,
rights, privileges and. franchises," did not embrace within
their meaning the immunity from the burden of paving enjoyed by the Brighton Railroad Company. Nor is there
anything in this, or any other statute, which tends to show
that the legislature used the words with any lbrger meaning
than they would have standing alone. The meaning is not

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v.ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

253

-Opinion of the Court..

enlarged, as faintly suggested, by the expression in the statute
that they are to be held by the successor "fully and entirely
and without change and diminution," words of unnecessary
emphasis, without which all included in "estate, property,
rights, privileges and franchises" would pass, and wxith which
nothing more could pass. On the contrary, it appears, as
clearly as it did in the Phenix Fire Insurance Co. case, supra,
that the legislature intended to use the words "rights, franchises and privileges" in the restricted sense. The law under
which this transfer was made was enacted in 1867 and amiended
in 1879. In 1869 an act was passed authorizing the merger
and consolidation of railroad corporations, chap. 917, Laws
of 1869, which provided that'upon the consolidation "all
and singular the rights, privileges, exemptions and franchises
should be transferred to the newv corporation." In 1876 an
act was passed, chap. 446, Laws of 1876, which authorized the
purchasers of the rights, privileges and franchises of railroad corporations (except street railroad corporations) under
a foreclosure sale to become a corporation, and thereupon
have "all the franchises, rights, powers, privileges and immunities" of the corporation whose property was sold. The
omission in the statute under consideration of the words
"exemptions" or "immunities," either of which would be
"apt to transfer the immunity claimed, is significant, in view
of the fact that each of these words was employed by the
legislature about the same time in other statutes dealing with
the transfer of corporate property, and raises a doubt of the
intention of the legislature, which in cases of the interpretation
of a statute claimed to divest the State of a governmental
power is equivalent to a denial.
The conclusion that the exemption of the Brighton Railroad
did not accompany the transfer of its property to the Rochester
Railroad is reached by another and entirely independent
course of reasoning, based upon a consideration of the law
under which the Rochester Railroad was incorporated. That
was the general incorporation law of 1884. Every corporation

IOCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court. -

205 U. S.

incorporated under it was made "subject to all the liabilities
imposed by the act," (§ 1) and directed to keep the street
surface about and between its tracks "in permanent repair,"
(§ 9) which, as held by the state court, includes the duty of
laying such pavement as is in controversy here. We follow
the construction by that court of §9, so fi." as it holds that
that section applies to all tracks, whether constructed under
this law or any other law, owned and operated by a corporation incorporated under it. Whether the section applies,
or constitutionally can apply, to a corporation not deriving
its powers from the act of 1884, in respect of tracks not constructed under its provisions, it is not necessary for us to consider. There may have been a saving of the rights of such
corporations under § 18. That question would be presented
if the Brighton Railroad, instead of a successor in title, were
claiming an exemption. Here a corporation, deriving its
right to exist under the act of 1884, is asserting an exemption
from a duty imposed upon it by the law which created it.
The authorities are numerous and conclusive that no corporation can receive by transfer from another an exemption
from taxation or governmental regulation which is inconsistent with its own charter or with the constitution or laws
of the State then applicable, and this is true, even though,
under legislative authority, the exemption is transferred by
words which clearly include it. Trask v. Maguire, 18 Wall.
391; Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Maine Central R. R. v.
Maine, 96 U. S. 499; Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359;
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244;
Memphis &c. R. R. v. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 609; St. Louis
&c. R,. R. v. Berry, 113 U. S. 465; Keokuk &c. R. R. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301; Norfolk & Western R. R. V. Pendleton,
156 U. S. 667; Yazoo &c. R. R. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 1;
Grand Rapids &c. R. R. v. Osborn, 193 U. S. 17; San Antonio
Traction Co. v. Altgelt, 200 U. S. 304.
The. principle governing these decisions, so plain that it
needs fho reasoning to support it, is that those who seek and

ROCHESTER RAILWAY CO. v. ROCHESTER.
205 U. S.

255

Opinion of the Court..

obtain the benefit of a charter of incorporation must take
the benefit under the conditions-and with the burdens prescribed by the laws then in force, whether written in the constitution, in general laws or in the charter itself. The Rochester Railroad, therefore, having accepted its charter under
a law which imposed upon it the duty of laying pavements
is bound to perform that duty, -even in respect of tracks,
which, while owned by a predecessor in title, would have been
exempt.
The foregoing considerations would be conclusive of the
case were it not that the plaintiff in error takes another position, which, if tenable, would avoid the result reached by
either course of reasoning. It 'is insisted that this is not a
case of transfer of an exemption; that the rules governing
transfer are not applicable here; that the Brighton Railroad
has not ceased to exist as a corporation; that it has been
merely joined by merger with the Rochester Railroad, which
controls it by stock holdings, and operates it by virtue of
its franchises; and that, therefore, the Rochester Railroad
may claim and enjoy the exemption of the Brighton Railroad in its behalf in respect of its property. In support of

this view counsel cite Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460;
Central Railroad v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665; Tennessee v. Whitworth, ub. sup. These cases hold that where corporations
are united in such manner that one continues to exist as a
corporation, owning and operating its property, by virtue
of its own chart6r, the corporation thus continuing to exist
still bolds its immunities and exemptions in'respect of the
property to which they apply. But the cases have no application here. It may well be that a proceeding for condemnation
of property, begun by the Brighton Railroad, Would not abate
by reason: of its consolidation with the Rochester. Railroad,
as held in: 43 State Reporter, 651, affirmed 133 N. Y. 690.
An examination, however, of the statute under which the
union of the two corporations was made, and the transactions
by which the union was accomplished, shows that the Brighton

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U.S.

Railroad has ceased to exist as a corporation. The Rochester
Railroad first took a lease of the Brighton Railroad, apparently
for the purpose of bringing itself within the provisions of
the act of 1879. Then all the stock of the latter corporation
was acquired by exchange of shares of stock of the former
corporation. Then a certificate of the transfer of stock
was filed with the Secretary of State. Thereupon, by operation of the law, the "estate, property, rights, privileges and
franchises" of the Brighton Railroad vested in the Rochester
Railroad, to be thereafter controlled by the Rochester Railroad
in its own corporate name. The law does not expressly
dissolve the selling corporation, but it leaves it without stock,
officers, property or franchises. A corporation without shareholders, ,without officers to manage its business, without property with which to do business, and without the right lawfully
to do business, is dissolved by the operation of the law which
brings this condition into existence. Maine CentralRailroad v.
Maine, ub. sup.; Keokuk &c. Railroad v. Missouri, ub. sup.;
Yazoo &c. Railroad, ub. sup.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of New York is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

concurs in the result.

