34

OCTOBER
TERM, 1906.
/
Syllabus.

205. U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER: The same decrees will be
entered in each of these cases as in the foregoing.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

took no part.

HALTER v. NEBRASKA.
ElRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 174.

Submitted Jauary 23, 1907.-Decided March 4, 1907.

A long established and steadily adhered to principle of constitutional
construction precludes a judicial tribunal from holding a legislative
enactment, Federal or state, unconstitutional and void unless it is manifestly so.
Except as restrained by its own fundamental law, or by the supreme law
'of the land, a State possesses all legislative power consistent with a republican form of government; and it may by legislation provide not
only for the health, morals and safety of its people, but for the common
good as involved in their well-being, peace, happihess and prosperity.
There are matters which, by congressional legislation, may be brought
within the exclusive control of the National Government but over which
in the absence of such legislation the State may exert some control in
the interest of its own people; and although the National flag of .the
United States is the emblem of National sovereignty and a congressional
enactment in regard to its use might supersede state legislation in regard
thereto, until Congress does act, a State has power to prohibit the use
of the National flag for advertising, purposes within its jurisdiction,
The privileges of citizenship and the rights inhering in personal liberty are
subject in their enjoyment to such reasonable restraints as may be. required for the public good; and no one has a right of property to use
the Nation's emblem for individual purposes.
A State may consistently make a classification among its people based on
some reasonable ground which bears a just and proper relation to the'
classification and is not arbitrary.
The statute. of Nebraska -preventing and punishing the desecration of the
flag of the United States and prohibiting the sale of articles upon which
there is a representation of the flag for advertising purposes is not un-

HALTER v. NEBRASKA.
205 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

constitutional either as depriving the owner of such articles of his property without due process of law, or as denying him the equal protection
of the laws-because of the exception from the operation of the statute
of newspapers, periodicals or books upon which the flag may be represented if disconnected from any advertisement.

facts, which involve :the constitutionality of the act
of Nebraska to prevent and punish the desecration of the
flag of the United States, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Sylvester R: Rush, for plaintiffs in error:
The flag is the emblem -of National sovereignty and the
property of the people of the United States under the laws
and Constitution of the United States. It is not a state
emblem, and has never ieceived the attention of the state
legislature until the act in question was passed July 9, 1903.
Nebraska has never by law adopted a flag of her own. The
flag under consideration is, therefore, solely a creation of the
Federal law, and neither this nor any other State has a right to
prescribe, the use that" may be made of it by citizens of the
United States.
It cannot be said that by reason of the silence of the Federal -statute on the use of the flag state legislation is thereby
permitted on that subject. Prigg v. Pennsylvania 16 Pet.
539, 618; Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 236.
Where the power of Congress to regulate is exclusive, the
failure of Congress to make .expresg regulations indicates its
will that the subject.shall be left free from any restrictions
or impositions; and any regulation -of the subject by the
States, except in matters of local concern only, is repugnant
to such freedom. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing Dist.,
120 U. S.493. See also Western Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162
U. S. 655; United States v. E. C. Knight, Co., 156 U. S. 11;
Pittsburg &c. Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S.588; In re Rahrer,
140 U. S.555; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.110; Philadelphia&c.
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 336; Walling v.
Michigan, 116 U. S.455; Escanaba &c. Transp. Co. v. Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

107'U. S. 687; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 282;Rhea v. Newport News, dc. R. Co., 50 Fed. Rep. 22; 'Pacific Coast Steam
Ship Co. v. Railroad Commissioners, 18 Fed. Rep. 11; The
Barque Chusan, 2 Story (U. S.), 455; S. C., 5 Fed. Cas. No.
2,717; Southern Express Co. v. Goldberg, 101 Virginia, 621.
Theract in question is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment ,to the Federal Constitution. Ruhstrat v. People, 185
Illinois,, 133, :145; People ex rel. McPike v. Van De Carr,91
N. Y. Sup. Ct. Rep. 20.
The police power of the State cannot be consistently invoked to sustain suchi.a law. Smiley v. McDonald, 42 Nebr.aska, 5.
The flag law is void for the reason that it attempts to de,strdy existing property rights. People ex rel. McPike v.
Van' De Carr, 178 N. Y. 425.
The flag law is class legislation, and, therefore, null and void.
This law directly permits the publishers of 'newspapers and
books, the stationer and the jeweler to use the flag in their
business, to place it,upon their goods and wares, thereby
attracting attention to them, -advertising them, and by such
means increasing their trade and business; but if any other
merchant or. business man uses the flag in his business, or as
a part of a trademark, under which his business is carried on,
he thereupon becomes subject to the pains and penalties of
this statute,,
While there may be aclassification of subjects for legislative
purposes, such classification must be reasonable, not arbitrary;
must arise out ,of consideration of sound reasons of public
polk~y, not mere whims-advantages extended to one citizen
and denied to antther. Lancashire Ins. Co. v. Bush, 60 Nebraska, 123.
Mr. Norris. Brown, Attorney General of the State of Nebraska, b(r defendant in error:
Under the police p(wer of the State the. legislature may
.enact laws to punish persons who desecrate the National

HALTER v. NEBRASKA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

emblem or use it for advertising a private business. Updegraph v. Commonwealth, 11 Serg. & Rawl. (Pa.) 406; Vidal v.
Girard, 2 How. 198.
No act of Congress or any provision of the state or of
the Federal Constitution prohibits the legislature of Nebraska
from enacting a law to prevent the desecration or misuse of
the flag of the United States, and the State is left free to
enact such a law. Fox v. State, 5 How. 410.
The flag law is not unconstitutional as destroying existing
property rights. Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 507; Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
The flag law is -not unconstitutional as class legislation.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 660.
The Illinois and New York cases cited in support of the objection to the flag law of Nebraska are not precedents to be
followed. Vidal v. Girard, 2 How. 198; Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 389; Fox v. State, 5 How. 410; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97
U. S. 507; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Davis v. State,
51 Nebraska, 302; Rosenbloom v. State, 64 Nebraska, 344.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the validity, under the Constitution of
the United States, of an act of the State of Nebraska, approved July 3d, 1903, entitled "An act to prevent and punish
the desecration of the flag of the United States." 1
1 "§ 2 3 7 5 g. Any person who in any manner', for exhibition or display
shall place, or cause to be placed, any word, figure, mark, picture, design,
drawing, or any advertisement of any nature, upon any flag, standard,
color, or ensign, of the United States of America, or shall expose or cause
to be exposed to public view any such flag, standard, color, or ensign, upon
which shall be printed, painted, or otherwise placed, or to which shall be
attached, appended, affixed, or annexed, any word, figure, mark, picture,
design .or drawing or any advertisement of any nature, or who shall expose

to public view, manufacture, sell, expose for sale, give away, or. have in
possession for sale, or to give away, or for use for.any purpose, any.article
or substance, being an article of merchandise, or a receptacle of merchandise,
upon which shall have been printed, painted, attachedLoxrotherwise placed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

The act, among other things, makes it a misdemeanor,
punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both, for any one to
sell, expose for sale, or have, in- possession for. sale, any article
of merchandise, upon which shall have been printed or placed,
for purposes of advertisement, a representation of the flag of
the United States. It expressly excepted, however, from its
operation any newspaper, periodical, book, etc., on which
should be printed, painted or placed' a representation of the
flag "disconnected from any advertisement." 1 Cobbey's Ann.
Stat. Neb. 1903, c. 139.
Thd plaintiffs in error were proceeded against by criminal
informatin .,upon the charge of having, in violation of the
statute, unlawfully exposed to public view, sold, exposed for
sale,. and had in their possession for sale a bottle of beer, upon
which, for purposes of advertisement, was printed and painted
a representation of the flag of the United States.
a representation of any such flag, standard, color or ensign, to advertise,
call attention to; decorate, mark, or distinguish, the article, or substance
on which so placed, or who shall publicly mutilate, deface, defile, or defy,
trample upon or cast contempt, either by words, or act, upon any such flag,
standard, color or ensign, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for not-more than thirty days, or both in the discretion of the
court.
"§ 2375h. The words flag, color, ensign, as used in this act shall include
any flag, standard, ensign, or any picture or representation, or either thereof,
made of any substance, or represented on any substance, and of any size,
evidently purporting to be, either of said flag, standard, qolor 'or ensign, of
the United States of America, or a picture, or a representation, of either
thereof, upon which shall be shown the colors, the stars, and the stripes, in
any number of either thereof, or by which the person seeing the same,
without deliberation may believe the same to represent the flag, color, or
ensign, of the United States of America.
"§ 2375i. This act shall not apply, to any act permitted by the statutes
of the United States of America, or by the United States Army and Navy
regulations, nor shall it be construed to apply to newspaper, periodical,
book, pamphlet, circular, certificate, diploma, warrant, or commission of
appointment to office, ornamental picture, article of' jewelry, or stationery
for use in. correspondence, or any of which shall be printed, painted or
placed,' said flag,, disconnected from any advertisement."
I Cobbey's
Ann. Stat. Neb. 1903. c. 139.

HALTER v. NEBRASKA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants pleaded not guilty, and at the trial insisted
that the statute in question was null and void, as infringing
their personal liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and depriving
them, as citizens of the United States, of the right of exercising a privilege, impliedly if not expressly guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution; also, that the statute was invalid
in that it permitted the use of the flag by publishers, newspapers, books, periodicals, etc., under certain circumstancesthus, it was alleged, discriminating in favor of one class and
against others. These contentions were overruled and the
defendants having been found guilty by a jury were severally
adjudged to pay a fine of $50 and the costs of the prosecution.
Upon writ of error the judgments were affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska, and the case has been brought here
upon the ground that the final order in that court deprived
the defendanfts, respectively, of rights specially set up and
claimed under the Constitution of the United States.
It may be well at the outset to say that Congress has established no regulation as to the use of the flag, except that in
the act, approved February 20, 1905, authorizing the registration of trade marks in commerce with foreign nations and
among the States, it was provided that nomark shall be refused as a trademark on account of its nature "unless such
mark

.

.

.

consists of or comprises the flag or coat of

arms or other insignia of the United States, or any similation
thereof or of any State or municipality or of any-foreign nation." 33 Stat. 724, §5.
The importance of the questions of constitutional law thus
raised will be recognized when it is remembered that more
than half of the States of the Union have enacted statutes
1 Ariz., Rev. Stat. 1901, p. 1295; Colo., 3 Mills Anno. Stat., vol.. 3, Rev.
Supp., 1891-1905, p. 542; Conn., Gen. Stat., 1902, p.. 387; Cal. Stat., 1899,
p. 46; Del., 22 Sess. Laws, p. 982; Hawaii, Sess. Laws, 1905, p. 20; Idaho,
Sess. Laws, 1905, p. 328; Ill.,
Sess. Laws, 1899, p. 234; Ind., Acts, .1901,
p. 351; Kans., Gen. Stat., 1P05, p. 499, § 2442; Me., R. S.,' 1903, p. 911;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

substantially similar, n their general scope, to the Nebraska
statute. That fact is one of such significance as to require
us to pause before reaching the conclusion that a majority of
the States have, in their legislation, violated the Constitution
of the -United States. Our attention is called to two cases in
which the constitutionality of such an enactment has been
denied-Ruhstrat v. People, 185 Illinois, 133; People ex rel.
McPike V. Van De Carr, 178 N. Y. 425. In the Illinois case
the statute was held to be unconstitutional as depriving a
citizen of the United States of the right of exercising a privilege,
impliedly, if not expressly, granted by the Federal Constitution, as unduly discriminating and partial in its character, and
as infringing the personal liberty guaranteed by'the state and
Federal constitutionig. In the other case, decided by the
Court of Appeals of New York, the statute, in its application
to articles manufactured and'in existence when it went into
operation, was held to be in violation of the Federal Constitution as depriving. the-owner of property without due process
of law, and as taking private property for public use without
just compensation.
In our. consi(leration of the questions presented we must
not overlook certain principles of constitutional construction,
long ago- etablished and steadily adhered to, which preclude
a judicial tribunal from holding a legislative enactment, Federal or state, unconstitutional and void, unless it be manifestly
so. Another vital principle is that, except as restrained by
its own fundamental law, or by the Supreme Law of the Land,
a Staf possesses all. legislative power consistent with a republiean form of government; therefore each State, when not
Md., Laws, 1902, p. 720; Mass., 2 Rev. Laws, 1902, p. 1742; Mich., Pub.
Acts, 1901, p., 139; Minn., Rev. Laws, 1905, .§ 5180; Mo., 2 Anno. Stat.,
1906, § 2352; Mont., Laws, 1905, p. 143; N. H., Pub. Stat., 1901, p. 810;
N. J., Laws, 1904, p. 34; New Mex., Laws, 1903, p. 121; N. Y., Laws, 1905,
vol..), p. 973; N. Dak., Laws, 1901, p. 103; Ohio, Laws, 1902, p. 305; Ore.,
Gen. Laws, 1901, p. 286; R. I., Sess. Acts, Jan. & Dec., 1902, p. 65; Utah.
Laws, 1903, p. 29; Vt., Laws, 1898, p. 93; Washington, Session Laws, 1901,
p. 32J;1 Wjs., Laws, 1901. p. 173; Wyo., Laws, 190.5, p. 86.

HALTER. v. NEBRASKA.
205 U. S.

41

Opinion of the Court.

thus restrained and so far as this court is concerned, may,
by legislation, provide not only for -the .health, morals andsafety of its people, but for the common good, as involved
in the well-being, peace, happiness and prosperity of the
people.
Guided by these principles, it would seem difficult to hold
,that the statute of -Nebraska, in forbidding the use of the flag
of the United States for purposes of mere advertisement, infringes any right protected by the Constitution of the United
States or. that it relates to a subject exclusively committed
to the National Government. From the earliest periods in the
history of the human race, banners, standards and ensigns
have been adopted as symbols of the power and history of
the peoples who bore them. "Itis not then remarkable that
the American people, acting through the legislative branch
of the Government, early in their history, prescribed a flag
as symbolical of the existence and sovereignty of the Nation.
Indeed; it would have been extraordinary if the Government
had started this' ountry upon its marvelous career without
giving it a flag to be recognized as the emblem of the American
Republic. For that flag every true American has not simply
an appreciation but a deep affection. No American, nor any
foreign born person who enjoys the privileges of American
citizenship, ever looks upon it without taking pride in the
fact that he lives under this free Government. Hence, it has
often occurred that insults to a flag have been the cause of
war, and indignities put upon it, in the presence of those who
revere it, have often been resented and sometimes punished
on the spot.
It may be said that as the flag is an emblem of National
sovereignty, it was for Congress alone, by appropriate legislation, to prohibit its use for illegitimate pprp9ses. We cannot
yield to this view. If Congress has not chosen to legislate
on this subject, and if an, enactment by it would supersede
,state laws of like character, it does riot follow that in the
absence of National legislation the State is without power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

act. There are matters which, by legislation, may be brought
within the exclusive control of the General Government, but
over which, in' the .absence of National legislation, the State.
may exert some control in the interest of its own people. For
instance, it is well established that in. the absence of legislation
by Congress a State' may, by-different methods, improve and
protect the navigation of a waterway of the United States'
-wholly within the boundary of such State. So, a State may,
exert its power to strengthen the bonds of the Union and
therefore, to that end, may encourage patriotism and*love of
country among its people. When, by its legislation, the State
encourages a feeling of patriotism towards the Nation, it necessarily encourages a like feeling towardl the State. One
who loves the Union will love the State in which he resides,
and-love both of the common country and of the State will
diminish in proportion as respect for the flag is weakened.
Therefore a State will be wanting in. care for the well-being of
its people if it ignores the fact that they regard the flag as a
symbol of their country's power and prestige, and will be impatient if any open disrespect is shown 'towards it. By the
statute in question the State has in substance declared that
no one subject to its jurisdiction shall fise the flag for purposes
of trade and traffic, a purpose wholly foreign to that for which
it was provided by the Nation. Such an use tends to degrade
,and cheapen, the flag in the estimation Iof the people,*as well
as to defeat the object of maintaining it as an emblem of
National power and National honor. And we cannot hold
that any privilege.of American citizenship or that any right
of personal liberty is violated by a state enactment forbidding
the flag to be used as an advertisement on a bottle of beer.
•Itis familiar law -that even the privileges of citizenship and the
rights inhering in personal liberty are subject, in their enjoyment, to such reasonable restraints as may be required for the
general good. Nor can we hold that any one has a right of
property which is violated Iy such an enactment as the one,
in question. If it be said that there is a right of property

HALTER v. -NEBRASKA.
205 U;.S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the tangible thing upon which a representation, of the flag
has been placed, the answer is that such representationwhich,* in itself, cannot belong, as property, to an individual
"-has been placed on such thing, in violation of law and subject to the power of Government to prohibit its use for purposes. of advertisement.
Looking then at the provision relating to the placing of
representations Of the flag upon articles of merchandise for
purposes of advertising, we are of opinion that those, who
enacted the statute knew, what is known of all, that to every
true American the flag is the symbol of the Nation's power,
the emblem of freedom in its truest, best sense. It is not
extravagant to say that to all lovers of the country it signifies
government resting on the consent of the governed-, liberty.
regulated by law; the protection-of the weak against the strong;
security against the exercise of arbitrary power; and absolute
safety for free institutions against foreign. aggression. As
the statute in question evidently had its origin in a purpose
to cultivate a feeling of patriotism among the people of Nebraska, we are unwilling to adjudge that in legislation for that
purpose the State erred in duty or has infringed the constitu-'
tional right of anyone. On the contrary, it may reasonably
be affirmed that a duty rests upon each State in every legal
way to encourage its people to love the Union with which the
State is indissolubly connected.
Another contention of the defendants is that the statute
is unconstitutional in that, while applying to representations
of the flag placed upon articles of merchandise' for purposes of
advertisement, it does not apply to a newspaper, periodical,
book, pamphlet, etc., on any of which shallbe printed, painted,
or placed the representation of the flag disconnected from any
advertisement. These exceptions, it is insisted, make an
arbitrary classification of persons which, in legal effect, denies
to one class the equal protection of the laws.
It is well settled that when prescribing a rule of conduct
for persons or corporations a State may, consistently witb

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

the Fourteenth Arpendment, make a classification among its
people based "upon some reasonable ground-some difference
which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification-and is not a mere arbitrary selection." Gull, Colorado
& Santa Fe Railway Ca. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 159, 160, 165.
In Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79, there
was a difference of opinion in the court as ta what was necessary to be decided, but all agreed that a state enactment
regulating the charges of a certain stock yards company, and
which exempted other like companies from its operation, was a
denial of the equal protection of the laws and forbidden by the
Fourteenth Amendment. In Connolly v. Union Sewer Company, 184 U. S. 540, 552, 562, 563, 564, the question arose as to
the validity, under the equality clause of the Constitution, as
to the validity of a statute of the State of Illinois, forbidding,
under penalty, the existence of combinations of capital, skill or
acts for certain specified purposes, but -exempting from its operation agricultural products or.live stock while in the hands
of the producer. By reason of this exemption the statute was
adjudged to operate as a denial of the equal protection" of the
laws, and was, therefore, void. The court observed that such
a statute was not a legitimate exertion of the power of classification, rested upon no reasonable basis, was purely arbitrary,
and therefore denied the equal protection of the laws to those
against whom it discriminated. It said: "We conclude this
part of the discussion by saying that to declare that some of
the class engaged in domestic trade or commerce shall be
deemed criminals if they violate the regulations prescribed by
the State for the purpose of protecting the public against illegal
combinations formed to destroy competition and to control
prices, and that others of the same class shall not be bound
to regard those regulations, but may combine their capital,
skill or acts to destroy competition and to control prices for
their special benefit, is so manifestly a denial of the equal
protection of the laws that further or extended argument to
establish that position would seem to be unnecessary."

HALTER v. NEBRASKA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The present case is distinguishable from the Connolly case.
The classification there involved was of persons alike engaged
in domestic trade, which trade, the court said, was of right
"open to all, subject to such regulations, applicable alike to all
in like conditions, as the State may legally prescribe." Now,
no one can be said to have the right, secured by the Constitution, to use the country's flag merely for purposes of adveTtising articles of merchandise. If everyone was entitled of'right
to use it for such purposes, then, perhaps, the State could not
discriminate among those who so used it.. It was for the
State of Nebraska to say how far it would go by way of legislation for the protection of the flag'against improper usetaking care, in such legislation, not to make undue discrimination against a part of its people. It chose not to forbid the
use of the flag for the exceptional purposes specified in the
statute, prescribing the fundamental condition that its use
for any of 'those purposes should be "disconnected from any
advertisement." All are alike forbidden to use the flag.as
an advertisement. •It is easy to be seen how a representation
of the flag may be wholly disconnected from an advertisement
and be used upon a newspaper, periodical, book, etc., in such
way as not to arouse a feeling of indignation nor offend the.
sentiment' and feelings of those who reverence it. In any
event, the classification made by the State cannot be regarded as
unreasonable or arbitrary or as bringing the statute under
condemnation as denying the equal protection of the laws.
It would )e going very far to say that the statute in question had no reasonable connection with the common. good
and was not promotive of the peace, order' and well-being of
the people. Before this court can hold the statute void it
must say that and, in addition, adjudge that it violates rights'
secured by the Constitution 'of the United States. . We cannot so say and cannot so adjudge.
Without further discussion, we hold that the provision
*ginst the use of representations of the flag for advertising
articles of merc.handise is not repugnant to the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 UI.S.

of the United States. It follows that the judgment of the
state court must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

CITIZENS' SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY, v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS._
No. 238.

Submitted January 7, 1907.-Decided March 4. 1907.

The repealing section of the Judiciary Act of 1887-1888 did not reach § 8
of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, and that section is still in force.
Jellinik v. Huron Copper Mining Co., 177 U. S. 1, i0.
A suit brought by owners of stock of a railroad company for the cancellation
of deeds and leases under and by authority of which the properties of the
company are held ard managed is a suit within the meaning of § 8 of the
act of March 3,1875, 18Stat. 470, as one to remove incumbrances or-clouds
upon rent or personal property and local to the district and within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the district in which the property is
situated, without regard to the citizenship of defendants so long as diverse
to that of the plaintiff, and foreign defendants not found can be brought
in by order of the court subject to the condition prescribed by that section,
that any adjudication affecting absent non-appearing defendants shall
affect only such property within the districts as may be the subject of the
suit and under the jurisdiction of the court.
Non-resident defendants appearing in the Circuit Court under protest' for
the sole purpose of denying jurisdiction do not waive the condition in § 8
of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, that any judgment of the court
shall affect only property within the district.

in equity was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern DistriCt of Illinois against the
Illinois Central Railroad Company, the Belleville and Southern
Illinois Railroad Company, the St. Louis, Alton and Terre
THISSuit

