DAVIDSON STEAMSHIP CO. v. UNITED STATES. 187
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

DAVIDSON STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 220. Argued March 1, 1907.-Decided Marc"25, 1907.
Where negligence is a mere question of fact and nothing appears which is
negligence per se, the determination of the question is peculiarly the
province of the jury and its conclusions will not be disturbed unless it
is entirely clear that they were erroneous.
There is an obligation. on all persons to take the care which, under 'the
special circumstances of the case, a reasonable and prudent man would
take, and the omission of that care constitutes negligence.
It is within the province of the jury to determine whether-a captain of a
steamship, also acting as pilot thereof, who fails to keep himself informed of changes made from time to time in the different harbors which
he is likely to visit, is guilty of negligence in colliding with a Government
breakwater, in course of erection, and on which the lights have been
changed, and even though there may have been evidence warranting
the finding of contributory negligence on the part of the Government
in the way it left the lights, this court will not set aside the verdict after
it has been approved by the trial court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
142 Fed. Rep. 315, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles E. Kremer and Mr. Hermon A. Kelley for
plaintiff in error:
The existence of the breakwater was not known, and it
could not, in the darkness, be seen in sufficient time to be
avoided.
It is not claimed that any notice of the actual construction
of the breakwater or what its condition was on the night
of the disaster, or what light it bore, was ever Sent out prior
to the disaster. The court refused to permit the defendant
to show that it was sent out afterwards on October 19, 1901.
No negligence is shown on the part of the master of the
Shenandoah.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

The notices which the Government sent out to mariners,
Exhibits "B" and "C," were either never sent to Captain McAvoy, master of the Shenandoah, or were not received by him.
Had he-received and read them, they would not have informed him of the obstruction, which he encountered and
collided with:
1i
The evidence shows such contributory negligence on the
part of the Government that there is no right of recovery.
The specific negligence of the Government consists:
In not having published or given notice of the actual construction or location of the breakwater.
In not giving notice of the white light which was being
displayed to mark it.
In giving misleading notices indicating that the breakwater
was completed and that the end of it was marked by a red
light.
In using a white instead of a red light to mark the outer
end of the, breakwater.
Mr. Milton. D. Purdy, Assistant to the Attorney General,
for defendant in error:
Where contributory negligence is alleged by the defendant,
such question is to be determined by the jury, unless no
recovery could be had upon any view of the case. Railroad
Co. v. Fraloif, 100 U. S. 24, 31; Kane v. Northern Central
Ry. Co., 128 U. S. 91, 94; Dunlap v. Northeastern R. R. Co.,
130 U. S. 652; R. & D. R. R. Co. v. Powers, 149 U. S. 43, 44,
47; Alaska Steamship Co. v. Collins, 127 Fed. Rep. 937, 940;
Chicago Great Western Ry. v. Price, 97 Fed. Rep. 423, 428,
and cases cited.
The cases citea by counsel for plaintiff in error to sustain
their contention that the Government was guilty of contributory negligence, when properly examined do not support
'the position. Casement v. Brown, 148 U. S. 615; Harrison v.
Hughes, 110 Fed. Rep. 545; United States v. Dunn & Co.,
124 Fed. Rep. 705, 707, discussed and distinguished.

DAVIDSON STEAMSHIP CO. v. UNITED STATES. 189
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the 'court.
On April 1, 1902, the United States commenced this action
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota to recover for injuries charged to have been done
through the negligence of the Davidson Steamship Company
to a Government breakwater at Two Harbors, Lake Superior.
The defendant answered, denying the negligence and alleging
that the result was due to the negligence of the Government,
the plaintiff. No question was made as to the amount of
the injury. Trial was had before a jury, which returned a
verdict for the Government. Judgment thereon was entered
by the Circuit Court. This judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth .Circuit, 73 C. C. A. 425,
and from that court brought here on writ of error.
In a general way, the facts"are that on the night of July 24,
1901, the steamer Shenandoah, the property of the steamship
company, ran into the Government breakwater at Two Harbors, Minnesota. Agate Bay, Lake Superior, is the harbor
of the village of Two Harbors, and is an open bay, across the
mouth of which there are breakwaters extending from either
shore, running in an easterly and westerly direction, and
leaving an open space as an entrance to the iron ore and other
docks in the bay. The breakwater extending from the easterly
side had been constructed for a number of years, extending
,into the bay for a distance of about seven hundred and fifty
feet, and its outer end indicated in the night time by a fixed,
large red light, fifteen or twenty feet high. In 1899 the
Government projected an extension of this- breakwater of
about three hundred feet in length, and at an angle of fortyfive degrees from the original breakwater. At the time of
the injury this extension, composed of wooden cribs filled
with stone, had been carried to its full length, but not built
up to its intended height, and, in fact, rising only a few inches
above the surface of the water. On the extreme outward
end of the new extension was a mast or pole about twelve feet

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

high, and on it was hung an ordinary white light or lantern.
The original fixed red light on the old breakwater had been
moved back some thirty feet, in order that the new work could
be properly joined to the old.
On the evening named the Shenandoah loaded a cargo of
iron ore at Superior, Wisconsin, and proceeded to Two Harbors, to take in tow a barge that was being loaded there.
When the vessel left Superior the. night was dark and stormy
and the sky covered with clouds, with a heavy wind blowing
from the northeast, making a high sea. Arriving off Two
Harbors at about 11 o'clock, the steamer headed for the
entrance, intending to enter port, as she had formerly done,
close to the easterly breakwater. When she had approached
within about two hundred feet the surf was seen breaking
over the extension of the breakwater. Her engines were
promptly stopped and reversed, but, notwithstanding this,
she struck this extension about one hundred and twenty-five
feet from the fixed red light, and did considerable damage
to it, but without injury to herself. The port of Two Harbors
is on the north side of Lake Superior, about twenty-seven miles
from Duluth, and one of the most important iron ore loading
points on the Great Lakes.
Now, whether the injury was the result of negligence, and
which party was guilty of negligence, are questions of fact
properly determinable by a jury. These questions are the
only ones discussed by counsel for the steamship company,
and therefore to them alone we direct our attention. It is
true in the assignment of errors some other matters are named,
but they are not called to our attention in brief or argument,
and an examination of them shows that very properly counsel
for the steamship company considered them not sufficiently
important to justify any discussion.
It is well, before noticing the testimony, to consider the
extent to which our inquiry may properly go. The settled
rule is that where negligence is a mere question of fact, and
nothing appears which is negligence per se, the determination

DAVIDSON STEAMSHIP CO.. v. UNITED STATES. 191
205 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the question is peculiarly the province of a jury, and its
conclusions will not be disturbed unless it is entirely clear
that they were erroneous. Courts do not approach the question as an original one and consider whether, intheir judgment,
the testimony does or does not prove negligence, but accept the
determination of the jury, if there is any evidence upon which
it can be rested. This is the general rule in respect to all
mere questions of fact. Authorities in this court, as well as
in others, are abundant and clear on this point. It is sufficient
to refer to one or two.
Railroad Company v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657, was an action to
recover damages in behalf of a boy six years of age for injuries sustained upon a turntable belonging to the railroad
company. This turntable was in an open space, about eighty
rods from the company's depot, in a village of from one hundred to one hundred and fifty persons. The railroad ground
was not enclosed or visibly separated from the adjoining
property, and was about three-quarters of a mile distant
from the house- of the child's parents. Th6 boy, with two
older boys, ,went to the turntable and commenced playing
on it. It was not watched or guarded by any servant of the
company. It was not fastened or locked, and revolved
easily on its axis. While so playing he was injured. The
jury found the company guilty of negligence. In affirming
the judgment this proposition was stated (664):
"It is this class of cases and those akin to it that the law
commits to the decision of a jury. Twelve men of the average
of the community, comprising men of education and men
of little education, men of learning and men whose learning
consists only in what they have themselves seen and heard,
the merchant, the mechanic, the farmer, the laborer; these sit
together, consult, apply their separate experience of the affairs
of life to the facts proven, and draw a unanimous conclusion.
This average judgment thus given it is the great effort of the
law to obtain. It is assumed that twelve men know more
of the common affairs of life than does one man, that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S

can draw wiser and safer conclusions from admitted facts
thus occurring than can a single judge."
In Railroad Company v. Fraloif, 100 U. S. 24, 31, one question was as to the value of property for which the company
was responsible. Sustaining a judgment against it, we said:
"If the jury acted upon a gross mistake of facts, or were
governed by some improper influence or bias, the remedy
therefor rested with the court below, under its general power
to set aside the verdict. But that court finding that the
verdict was abundantly sustained by the evidence, and that
there was no ground to suppose that the jury had not performed their duty impartially and justly, refused to disturb
the verdict, and overruled a motion for a new trial. Whether
its action, in that particular, was erroneous or not, our power
is restricted by the Constitution to the determination of the
questions of law arising upon the record. Our authority
does not extend to a reexamination of facts which have been
tried by the jury under instructions correctly defining the
legal rights of parties. Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 446; 21
How. 167; Insurance Company v" Folsom, 18 Wall. 249."
In Dunlap v. Northeastern Railroad Company, 130 U. S.
649, 652, this was the ruling:
"The Circuit Court erred in not submitting the question of
contributory negligence to the jury, as the conclusion did not
follow, as matter of law, that no recovery could be had upon
any view which could be properly taken of the facts the evidence tended to establish. Kane v. Northern Central Railway,
12'8 U. S. 91; Jones v. East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia
Railroad Co., 128 U. S. 443."
In Richmond & Danville Railroad Company v. Powers,
149 U. S. 43, 45, the jury having found the railroad company
guilty of negligence, we sustained the verdict and judgment,
saying:
"It is well settled that where there is uncertainty as to the
existence of either negligence or contributory negligence, the
question is not one of law, but of f'act, and to be settled by a

DAVIDSON STEAMSHIP CO. v. UNITED STATES. 193
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jury; and this, whether the uncertainty arises from a conflict in the testimony, or because the factsbeing undisputed,
fair-minded men will honestly draw different conclusions from
them. Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657; Washington &
Georgetown Railroad v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554; Delaware &
Lackawanna Railroad v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469."
From these authorities, and many more of a kindred nature
could be cited, it is obvious that the question for us to consider is whether there was testimony from which the -jury
might rightfully find the .defendant guilty of negligence. It
appears that the captain of the steamship had been for many
years on the lakes, and that he was acting as pilot of the ship
at the time of the collision. The harbor was one of great
importance, although he had not been in it for over a year.
He knew that harbor improvements on the Great Lakes were
being made by the Government, that information of the condition of those.improvements was given from time to time by
cir "ars from the Departments, and still made no efforts to
ascertain the then condition of the' harbor, the only chart
he had being an old one. In addition to the fact that he
knew where information could be obtained, might have assumed that he would be likely to be sent to any "one of the
many important harbors, and ought to have prepared himself
therefor, there was testimony that official circulars and notices
were mailed to him at his post office address, although he
states that he failed to receive them, and relied upon the
knowledge which he had from his visit of more than a year
theretofore and upon what he should find as he entered the
harbor. Now there is an obligation on all persons to take
the care which under the. special circumstances of the case a
reasonable and prudent man would take, and the omission
of that care constitutes negligence. It was said by Mr. Justice
McLean, delivering the opinion in Cullertson v. Shaw et al.,
18 How. 584, 587:
"When a steamer is about to enter aharbor great caution
is required. There being no usage as to an open way; the
VOL. (1cCV-l 3

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

vigilance is thrown upon the entering vessel. Ordinary care,
under such circumstances, will not excuse a steamer for a
wrong done."
In Atlee v. Packet Company, 21 Wall. 389, 396, Mr. Justice Miller, commenting on the duty of a pilot of a river steamer,
makes these observations:
But the pilot of a river steamer, like the harbor pilot, is
selected for his personal knowledge of the topography through
which he steers his vessel. In the long course of a thousand
miles in one of these rivers, he must 'be familiar with the
appearance of the shore on each side of the river as he goes
along. Its banks, towns, its landings, its houses and trees,
and 'its openings between trees, are all landmarks by which
he steers his vessel. The compass is of little use to him. He
must know where the navigable channel is, in its relation to
all these e.xternal objects, especially in the night. He must
also)-e familiar with all dangers that are permanently located in the course of the river, as sand bars, snags, sunken
rocks or trees, or abandoned vessels or barges. All this he
must know and remember and- avoid. To do this he must be
constantly informed of changes in the current of the river,
of sand bars newly made, of logs, or snags, or other objects
newly presented, against which his vessel might be injured.
In the active life and changes made by the hand of man or
the action of the elements in the path of his vessel, a year's
absence from the scene impairs his capacity, his skilled knowledge, very seriously in the course of along voyage."
It would not be strange if the jury found that a captain
engaged in the navigation of the waters of Lake Superior
was guilty of negligence in not keeping himself informed of
changes going on from time to time in the different harbors
which he was likely to be called upon to visit. His very want
of knowledge, when he had the means of ascertaining the
facts, could properly be regarded as negligence. Clearly if
could not be held as matter of law not to be so.
It is true'he was apparently misled by the lights on the

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
205 U. S.

Syllabus.

breakwater, and we do not mean to intimate that there was no
evidence from which the jury would have been warranted in
finding that the Government was guilty of negligence in' the
way in which it left those lights. But no omission or negligence on the part of the Government avoids the fact that
there was testimony from which the jury was justified in finding the captain guilty of negligence, and for that negligence
the steamship company was responsible. The jury might
have thought that if he had kept himself properly informed
in reference to the condition of that as of other important
harbors he 'would not have been misled by the condition of the.
lights. At any rate the verdict of the jury was against the
contention of contributory negligence on the part. of the
Government, and the jury was the tribunal to determine
this, as well as the question of negligence. We could not set
aside the verdict of the jury, approved as it was by the trial
court and the Court of Appeals, without ourselves exercising
the function of triers of fact, when under the law such questions are committed to the determination of a jury.The judgment is
Affirmed.

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 236.

Submitted March 8, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

In a contest over a homestead entry, whether there was a sale and whether
the thing sold was or was not the tract in question, are matters of fact to
be determined by the testimony, and the findings of the Land Department
in those respects are conclusive in the courts.
While a homesteader cannot make a Valid and 6nforceable 66ntract to sell the
land he is seeking to enter, he is not bound to perfect his application but
may abandon or relinquish his rights in the land, and if he in fact makes
a sale he is no longer interested in the land and the Government can treat
the sale as a relinquishment and patent the land to other applicants.
83 Paq. Rep. 882, affirmed.

