OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

the facts stated, should be the final judgment. It is, obviously,
as if the court had been asked, generally, upon a statement of
all the facts, to determine what, upon those facts, is the law
of the case. We thus state the matter, because it is apparent
that the case turns altogether upon the question propounded
as to the validity, in view of all the facts stated, of the contract
under which the plaintiff's cattle were transported. This
court is without jurisdiction to answer the question certified
in its present imperfect form and the certificate must be dismissed. Sadler v. Hoover, 7 How. 646.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

PATTERSON v. COLORADO Ex rel. THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE STATE O, COLORADO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADG.
No. 223.

Argued March 5, 6, 1907.-Decided April 15, 1907.

The requirement in the Fourteenth Amendment of due proc-ess of law does
not take up the special piovisions of the state constitution and laws into
the Fourteenth Amendment for the purpose of the case, and in that way
subject a state decision that they have been complied with to revision
by this court.
Whether an information for contempt is properly supported, and what
constitutes contempt, as well as the time during which it may be committed, are all matters of local law.
As a general rule the decision of a state court upoti a question of law is not
an infraction of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
and reviewablo by this court on writ of error merely because it is wrong
or because earlier decisions are reversed.
While courts, when 'a case* is finished, are subject to the same criticisms
as other people, they have power to prevent interference with the course
of justice by premature statements), arguments, or intiiidation, and the
truth is not a defense in a contempt proceeding to an improp& publication made during the pending suit.

PATTERSON v. COLORADO.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In punishing a person for contempt of court the judges act impersonally
and are not considered as sitting in their own case. United States v
Shipp, 203 U. S. 563, 674.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas M. Patterson, pro se, with whom Mr. Henry M.
Teller, Mr. Charles S. Thomas, Mr. Sterling B. Toney, Mr.
James H. Blood, Mr. Harvey Riddell, Mr. S. W. Belford and
Mr. John A. Rush were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The articles and cartoon were legitimate and privileged
criticisms. They did not relate to "pending" cases within
the meaning of the law; and whatever reference they made to
cases were in no wise calculated to interfere with the due administration of justice. These matters are jurisdictional, and
by reason of them the court was without jurisdiction to proceed
against respondent for contempt and to adjudge a fine against
him, and in so doing it was the rendering of a judgment that
deprived him of his property without due process of law.
Titus v. The People, 7 Colorado, 451; New Orleans v. Steamship
Co., 20 Wall. 387.
It follows that in cases of criminal contempt not committed
inthe presence of. the court, there must be a charge, in writing,
and stating the facts constituting the contempts, and unless
the facts set out constitute a contempt the court is without
jurisdiction to either issue a citation or proceed further with
the cause. Codper v. The People, 13 Colorado, 337; Mullin v. The People, 15 Colorado, 440; Wyatt v. The People,
17 Colorado,' 252.
Once a suit is decided newspapers may make whatever
comments they will about it, and though the honor and integrity of the court may be.assailed, judges, like other persons,
are relegated to the courts for redress.
To issue a citation in contempt proceedings upon an unverifled information confers no jurisdiction, and all proceedings
thereafter in such proceedings are void for want of jurisdiction.
4 Blackstone's Commentaries, 286; Thomas v. The People,

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

.14 Colorado, 254; Cooper v. The People, 13 Colorado, 355, and
cases
.Thecited.
legislature having defined contempts,
fixed a practice
and declared a punishment, the court was without authority
to ignore the statutes .and proceed in defiance of their provisions.
The legislature did exercise its authority over contempt
and changed the rule of the common law by positive statute.
It, like Congress, declared what should constitute contempt,
and in doing so it included whatIhas been divided by the courts
into civil and criminal contempts in its enumeration. Sec. 321,
Colorado Civil Code.
Every one of these enumerated contempts are declared by
Rapaije to be criminal contempts, and Rapalje's definitionis
approved by the Colorado Supreme Court. Rapalje on Contempts, § 21;, Wyatt v. The People, 17 Colorado, 258.
To fine or imprison an accused person in contempt proceedings 'for publishing the truth about-a judge or court when
the truth of the charge is pleaded in justification and an offer
to prove the same is mhade, isto deprive him of liberty or
p.operty Without ,due process of law. 4 Blackstone's Conmentaries, 285; Cooper v. People, 13 Colorado, 337, 365;
Matter of Sturock, 97 An . Dec. 626; State V. Circuit Court,
38 L. R. A. 559, 560; In. re Shortridge, 99 California, 526;
Postal Co. V. Adams, 155 U. S. 698; Windsor v. MeVeagh,
93 U. S.277; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350; 'Hovey v. Elliot,
167 U. S.414, 419.
This court has a right to review the decisions of the. state
courts in contempt-cases. Walker V. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.90;
Eilenbecher v. Plymouth County District Court, 134 U. S. 31;
Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S.101; Manley v. Park, 187 U. S.
547; Detroit Co. v. Osborne, 189 U. S. 383; Abbott-v. National
Bank of Commerce, 175.U. S.. 409..
Mr. I. B.- Melville and Mr. Horace G. Phelps, with whom
Mr, William H. Dickson, Attorriy General of. the .State of'

PATTERSON v. COLORADO.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Colorado, Mr. Samuel H. Thompson, Jr., and Mr. N. C. Miller
were on the brief, for defendant in error:
This court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Colorado in this case. No treaty or
Federal statute of, or any authority exercised under, the
United States is involved. No statute of, or authority exercised under, the State of Colorado is involved on the ground
of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws
of the United States.
The legislature of the Territory of Colorado in 1861 adopted
the common law of England, so far as applicable and of a
general nature, as well as all the acts and statutes of a general
nature passed by the British parliament in aid of the common
law prior to the fourth year of James I. Laws of Colorado,
1861, p. 35.
A following legislature, in 1868, repealed this statute, but
afterwards, at the same session, reenacted it, and it has ever
since remained in force in this commonwealth. 2 Mills' Ann.
Stat. § 4184; Herr v, Johnson, 11 Colorado, 393, 396; Chilcott et al. v. Hart, 23 Colorado, 40, 51; Teller v. Hill, 18 Colo.
App. 509, 512.
The constitution of the State of Colorado was adopted July 1,
1876, and the Supreme Court of such State was created and its
duties defined by article VI thereof. 1 Mills' Ann. Stat. 252.
The original thirteen States inherited the common law,
and so held it at the time of the adoption of their respective
constitutions. Colorado adopted the common law by legislative enactment, and so held it at the time of the adoption
of its constitution.
When the courts of those States came into existence by
constitutional creation, they became possessed of common law
powers by reason of the existence of the common law in their
respective jurisdictions; and for the same reason, when the
Supreme Court of Colorado came into.existence, by virtue of
the constitution of such State, it became possessed of common
law powers, except as otherwise provided in said instrument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Colorado is a constitutional court,
with common law powers, and right of self-preservation is an
inherent right in such courts. Rapalje on Contempts, § 1; Abbott's Trial Brief (Crim. 2d ed.), 13; 7 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law
-(2d ed.), 30; 9 Cyc. of Law & Proc. 26; 2 Bish. New Crim. Law,
§ 243; Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cr. 75, 94; United States v. Hudson,
7 Cr. 32, 34; Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 227; Ex parte
Kearney, 7 Wheat. 39, 42; Randall v. Brig4am, 7 Wall., 523,
540; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 510; Ex parte Terry,
128 U. S. 289, 303 et seq; Ex parte Savin, 131 U. S. 267, 275;
In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 596.
It follows that the legislature is without power to limit or
restrict the exercise of such inherent power, whenever the
latter is necessary for the protection and preservation of the
efficiency and usefulness of such court. Rapalje on Contempts,
§ 1; Abbott's Trial Brief (Crim. 2d ed.), note, p: 13; 9 Cyc.
Law: & Proc. 27, and cases cited under note 40; 7 Am. & Eng.
Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 33, and cases cited- under note 1; Ex parte
Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 510.
While freedom of the press, like that of freedom of speech, is
necessary to the perpetuation of a republican form of government, this does not mean that either can be carried to such an
extreme as to impede, embarrass, or unjustly influence the due
and orderly administration of justice, or prejudice .the rights
of litigants in pending cases, for the latter would more surely
impair the existence of our government than the former.
Cooley's Const. Lim. (7th ed.), 604, 605; 7 Am. & Eng. Enc. of
Law (2d ed.), 59; 9 Cyc. Law and Proc. 20; 2 Bish. New Crim.
Law, § 259; Abbott's New Trial Brief (Crim. 2d ed.), 15;
Oger's Libel & Slander (3d ed.), 519, 524.
•MRI.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of. error to review a judigment upon an information for contempt. The contempt alleged was the
publication of certain articles and i. cartoon, which, it was

PATTERSON v. COLORADO.
205 U, S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged, reflected upon the motives and conduct of the Supreme Court of Colorado in cases still pending and were intended to embarrass the court in the impartial administration
of justice. There was a motion to quash on grounds of local
law and the state constitution and also of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. This
was overruled and thereupon an answer was filed, admitting the publication, denying the contempt, also denying
that the cases referred to were still pending, except that
the time for motions for rehearing had not elapsed, and averring that the iuotions for rehearing subsequently were overrule(!, except that in certain cases the orders were amended
so that the democratic officeholders concerned could be sooner
turned out of their offices. The answer went on to narrate
the transactions commented on, at length, intimating that the

conduct of the court was unconstitutional and usurping, and
alleging that it was in aid of a scheme, fully explained, to seat
various republican candidates, including the governor of-the
State, in place of democrats who had been elected, and that
two of the judges of the court got their seats as a part of the

scheme. Finally, the answer alleged that the respondent
published the articles in pursuance of what he regarded as a
public duty, repeated the previous objections to the information, averred the truth of the articles, and set up and claimed
the right to prove the truth under the Constitution of the

United States. Upon this answer the court, on motion, ordered judgment fining the*plaintiff in error for contempt.
The foregoing proceedings are set forth in a bill of exceptions,

and several errors are alleged. The difficulties with those
most pressed is that they raise questions of local law, which
are p~ot open to reexamination here. The requirement in
the Fourteenth Amendment of due process of law does not
take up the special provisions of the statconstitution and
laws into the Fourteenth Amendment for the plurposes of the
case, and in that way subject a state( decision that they have
been complied with to revision 1by this court. French -0.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Taylor, 199 U. S. 274, 278; Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S.
638, 639; Burt v. Smith, 203 U. S. 129, 135. For this reason,
if for no other, the objection that the information was not
supported by an affidavit until after it was filed cannot be
considered. See further Ex parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265. The
same is true of the contention that the suits referred to in the
article complained of were not pending. Whether a case shall
be regarded as pending while it is possible that a petition for
rehearing may be filed, or, if in an appellate court, until the
remittitur is issued, are questions which the local law can
settle as it pleases without interference from the Constitutibn
of the United States. It is admitted that this may be true
in some other sense, but it is not true, it is said, for the purpo of fixing the limits of possible contempts. But here again
the plaintiff in error confounds the argument as to the common
law, or as to what it might be Wise and humane to hold, with
that concerning the State's constitutional power. If a State
should see fit to provide in its constitution that conduct otherwise amounting to a contempt should be punishable as such
if occurring at any time while the court affected retained
authority to modify its judgment, the Fourteenth Amendment
would not forbid. The only question for- this court iA the
power of the State. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 318;
Missouri Y. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165, 171.
It is argued that the decisions criticised, and in some degree
that in the present case, were contrary to' well-settled previous
adjudications of the same court, and this allegation is regarded
as giving some sort of constitutional right to the plaintiff in
error. But while it is true that the United States courts do
not always hold themselves bound, by state decisions in cases
arising before them, that principle has but a limited application to cases brought from the state courts here on writs of
error. Except in exceptional cases, the grounds on which
the Circuit Courts are held authorized to follow an earlier
state decision rather than a later one, or to apply the rules of
commercial law as understood by this court, rather than those

PATTERSON v. COLORADO.
205 U. S.

Opinion of. the Court.

laid down by the local tribunals, are not grounds of constitutional right, but considerations of justice or expediency.
There is no constitutional right to have all general propositions
of law once adopted remain unchanged.. Even if it be true,
as the plaintiff in error says, that the Supreme Court of Colorado
departed from earlier and well-established precedents to meet
the exigencies of this case, whatever might be thought of the
justice or wisdom' of such a step, the IConstitution of the
United States is not. infringed. It is unnecessaryto lay down
an absolute rule beyond the possibility of exception. Excep-

tions have been held to exist. , But in general the decision of a
court upon a question of law, however wrong and however contrary to previous decisions. is not an infraction of the Fourteenth Amendment merely because it is wrong or because
earlier decisions are reversed.
It isargued that the articles did not constitute a contempt.
In view of the answer, which set out more plainly and in fuller
detail what the articles insinuate and suggest, and in view of
the position of the plaintiff in error that he was performing
a public duty, the argument for a favorable interpretation of
the printed words loses some of its force. However, it is
enough for us to say that they are far from showing that' innocent cofiduct has been laid hold of as an arbitrary pretense
for an arbitrary punishment. Supposing that such a case
would give the plaintiff in'error a standing here, anything
short of that is for the state court to decide. What constitutes
contempt, as well as the time during which it may be committed, is a matter of local law.
The defense upon which the plaintiff in error most relies
is raised by ,the allegation that the articles complained of are
true and the claim of the right to prove the truth. He claimed
this right under the constitutiong both of the State and of
the United States, but the latter ground alone comes into consideration here, for reasons already stated.. Ex parte'Kemmier,
136 U. S. 436. We do not pause to consider whether the claim
was sufficient in point of form,. although it is easier to refer-to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

the Constitution generally for the supposed right than to point
to the clause from which it springs. We leave undecided
the question whether there is to be found in the Fourteenth
Amendment a prohibition similar to that in the First. But
even if we were to assume that freedom of speech and freedom
of the press were protected from abridgment on the part not
only of the United States but also of the States, still we should
be far from the conclusion that the plaintiff in error would'
have us reach. In the first place, the main purpose of such
constitutional provisions is "to prevent all such previous
restraints upon publications as had been practiced by other
governments," and they do not prevent the subsequent punishment of such as may be deemed contrary to the public
welfare. Commonwealth v. Blanding, 3 Pick. 304, 313, 314;
Respubica v. Oswald, 1 Dallas, 319, 325. The preliminary
freedom extends as well to the false as to'the true; the subsequent punishment may extend as well to the true as to the
false. This was the law of criminal libel apart from statute
in most cases, if not in all. Commonwealth v. Blanding, ubi
sup.; 4 B1. Com. 150.
In the next place, the rule applied to criminal libels applies
yet more clearly to contempts. A publication likely to reach
the eyes of a jury, declaring a witness in a pending cause a
perjurer, would be none the less a contempt that it was true.
It would tend to obstruct the administration of justice, because even a correct conclusion is not to be reached or helped
in that way, if our system of trials is to be maintained. The
theory of our system is that the conclusions to be reached in
a case will be induced only by evidence and argument in open
court, and not by any outside influence, whether of private
talk or public print.
What is true with reference to a juiy is true also with reference to a court. Cases like the present are more likely
to arise, no doubt, when there is a jury and the publication
may affect their judgment. Judges generally, perhaps, are
less apprehensive that publications impugning their own

PATTERSON v. COLORADO.
205 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting,'

reasoning or motives will interfere with their administration
of the law. But if a court regards, as it may, a publication
concerning a matter of law pending before it, as tending toward
such an interference, it may punish it as in the instance put.
When a case is finished, courts are subject to the same criticism as other people, but the propriety and necessity of preventing interference with the course of justice by premature
statement, argument or intimidation' hardly can be denied.
Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289; Telegram Newspaper Co. v.
Commonwealth, 172 Massachusetts, 294; State v. Hart, 24
W. Va. 416; Myers v. State, 46 Ohio St. 473, 491; Hunt v.
Clarke, 58 L. J. Q. B. 490, 492; Rex v. Parke [1903], 2 K. B.
432. It is objected that the judges were sitting in their own
case. But the grounds upon which contempts are punished
are impersonal. United States v. Shipp, -203 U. S. 563, 574.
No doubt judges naturally would be slower to punish when
the contempt carried with it a personally dishonoring charge,
but a man cannot expect to secure immunity from punishment
by the proper tribunal, by adding to illegal conduct a personal
attack. It only remains to add that the plaintiff in error had
his day in court and opportunity to be heard.. We have
scrutinized the case, but cannot say that it shows an infraction
of rights under the Constitution of the United States or discloses more than the formal appeal to that instrument in the
answer to found the jurisdiction of this court.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

I cannot agree that this writ of error should be dismissed.
By the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, it is provided that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or abridgirig the freedom
of speech, or of the pr'ess, or of the right of the people peaceably
to assemble and to petition the Government for redress."
In the Civil Rights cases, 109 U. S. 1, 20, it was adjudged that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
HARLA

, J.', dissenting.

205 U. S.

the Thirteenth Aniendinent, although in form prohibitory, had
a reflex character in that it established and decreed universal
civil and political freedom throughout the United States.
In United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552, we held
that the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to
petition the Government for a redress of grievances-one
of the rights recognized in and protected by the First Amendment against hostile legislation by Congress-was an attribute
of "national citizenship." So the First Amendment, although
in form prohibitory, is to be regarded as having a reflex charactef and as affirmatively recognizing freedom of speech and
freedom of the press as rights belonging to citizens of the
United States; that is, those rights are to be deemed attributes
of ,.ational citizenship or citizenship of the United States.
No one, I take it, will hesitate to say that a judgment of a
Federal court, prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amend.ment, impairing or abridging freedom of speech or of the press,
would have been in violation of the rights of "citizens of the
United States" as guaranteed by the First Amendment;
this, for the reason that the rights of free speech and a free press
were, as already said, attributes of national citizenship before
the Fourteenth Amendment was made a part of the' Constitution.
Now, the Fourteenth Amendment declares, in express
words, -that "no State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of- citizens of the
United States." As the First Amendment guaranteed. the
rights of free speech and of a free press against hostile action
by the United States, it would seem clear that when the
Fourteenth Amendment prohibited the States from impairing
or abridging the privileges of citizens of the United States
it necessarily prohibited 'the States from impairing or abridging
the constitutional rights of such citizens to free speech and
a free press. .But the court announces that it leaves undecided the specific question whether there is to be found in the
Fourteenth Amendment a prohibition as to the rights of free

PATTERSON v. COLORADO.
205 U. S.

BREWER, J., dissenting.

speech and a free press similar to that in the First. It yet
proceeds to say that the main purpose of -such constitutional
provisions was to prevent all such "previous restraints" upon
publications as had been practiced by other governments,
but not to prevent the subsequent punishment of such as may
be deemed contrary to the public welfare. I cannot assent
to that view, if it be meant that the legislature may impair
or abridge the rights of a free press and of free speech whenever
it thinks that the public welfare requires that to be done.
The public welfare cannot override constitutional privileges,
and if the rights of free speech and of a free press are, in their
essence, attributes of national citizenship, as I think they are,
then neither Cngress nor. any State since thexadoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment can, by legislative enactments or
by judicial action, impair or abridge them. In my judgment
the action of the court below was in violation of the rights
of free speech and a free press as guaranteed by the Constitution.
I go further and hold that the privileges of free speech and
of a free press, belonging to every citizen of the United States,
constitute essential parts of every man's liberty, and are protected against violation by that clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment forbidding a State to deprive any person of his
liberty without due process of law. It is, I think, impossible
to conceive of liberty, as secured by the Constitution against
hostile action, whether by the Nation or by the States, which
does not embrace the right to enjoy free speech and the right
t( have a freepress.
MR.JusTvmc

BREW i.:,

separately dissenting.

While not concurring in the views expressed by.Mr. Justice
Harlan, I also dissent from the opinion and judgment of the
court. The plaintiff in error made a distinct claim that he
was denied that: which he asserted to be a right guaranteed

by the Federal Constitution. His claipi cannot be regarded
as a frivolous one. nior en the proceedings for contempt be
VOL. o'e\-(

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

entirely disassociated from the general proceedings of the case
in which the contempt is charged to have been committed.
I think, therefore, that this court has jurisdiction and ought
to inquire and determine the alleged rights of the plaintiff in
error. As, however, the court decides that it does not have
jurisdiction, and has dismissed the writ of error, it would
not be fit for me to express any opinion on the merits of the
case.

CHANLER v. KELSEY, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATE'S

COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW

YORK AND STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 240.

Argued March 14, 1907.-Decided April 15, 1907.

Notwithstanding the common law rule that estates created by the execution
of a power take effect as if created by the original deed, for some purposes
the execution of the power is considered the source of title.
This court must follow the decision of the state court in determining that
the essential thing to transfer an estate is the exercise of a power of appointment..
The imposition of a transfer or inheritance tax under ch. 284, Laws of
New York, 1897, on the exercise of a power of appointment in the same
manner as though the estate passing thereby belonged absolutely to the
person exercising the power, does not, although the power was created
prior to the act, deprive the person taking by appointment, and who
would not otherwise have taken the estate, of his property without due
process of law in violation, of the Fourteenth Amendment; nor does it
violate the obligation of any contract within the protection of the impairment clause of the Federal Constitution.
176 N. Y. 486, sustained.
THIS is a writ of error to the Surrogate's Court of the county
of New York, State of New York, but its real purpose is to

