PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1. Siubmitted March 4, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.
The averment that territory named in the complaint is a part of the United
States is a conclusion of law and not admitted by a demurrer.
The court takes judicial cognizance whether or not a given. territory is
within the boundaries of the United States, and is bound to take the fact
as it really exists however it may be averred to be.
Who is the sovereign de jure or de facto of territory is not a judicial, but a
political, question,.the determination of which by the legislative and executive departments of any government conclusively binds the judges as
well as all other officers, citizens and subjects of that government. Jones
v. United States, 137 U. S. 202.
The Isle of Pines under the prvisions of the Platt Amendment and the
Constitution of the Republic of Cuba is de facto under the jurisdiction-of.
the Republic of Cuba, and, as the United States has never yet taken
possession thereof, it has remained and is foreign country within the
meaning of the Dingley Tariff Act of 1597. DeLima v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 1; United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246.

THE facts, which involve the political status of the Isle
of Pines and whether it is under the jurisdiction of Cuba or
that of the United States, and whethermerchandise therefrom
is subject to duty, as coming from a foreign country within
the meaning of the Dingley Tariff Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James C. Lenney for plaintiff inerror:
Up to the ratification of the second Treaty of Paris (April 11,
1899), the Isle of Pines was under the sovereignty of the Crown
of Spain. It did not belong to, nor was it a part of, the Island
of Cuba.
Spain acquired title to and sovereignty over the Isle of Pines
by right of discovery.
Spain, until A. D. 1899, retained the title and sovereignty
thus acquired..
VOL. cOV-i7

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

Since a territory can have but one sovereignty at one time,
it follows that the Island of Cuba at no time prior to 1899
acquired any title to the Isle of Pines, either expressly or by
implication.
No authority has been found to hold that the maritime
jurisdiction of one island can extend to another island located
in the open sea forty miles distant from the nearest shore.
Geographically, then, there appears to be no ground for holding that the Isle of Pines belonged to or was a part of the Island
of Cuba.
In the absence, therefore, of any express cession of sovereignty to Cuba, or of any impliable intention to include this
isle as a part of Cuba, or of any good geographical reason
for so doing, it must follow that on April 11, 1899, Spain did
own, and Cuba, *a mere colony, did not own or include, the
Isle of Pines.
Under article II of the said treaty-"Spain cedes to the
United States the Island of Porto Rico and other islands now
under Spanish sovereignty in the West Indies.
.- the
Isle of Pines passed direct from the sovereignty of the Crown
of Spain to that of the people of the United States.
The only reasonable construction is that by article II of the
treaty, as above quoted, the United States acquired all the
islands under Spanish sovereignty .inthe West Indies except
the Island of Cuba.
The very language of the treaty itself, as explained in the
protocols and construed according to its fair and ordinary
meaning, is overwhelmingly in favor of this proposition.
On or about August 14, 1899, the United States War Department, in an official letter stated:
"The Isle of Pines, . . . was ceded by Spain to the
United States, and is, therefore, a part of our territory."
The maps and other data prepared and issued by the General Land Office of the Department of the Interior indicate
the Isle of Pines as being United States territory.
The "Platt Amendment" provided:
.

.

PEARCtY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"That the Isle of Pines shall be omitted from the proposed
constitutional boundaries of Cuba; the title thereto being left
to future adjustment by treaty."
When Cuba was transferred to the government of its people,
on May 20, 1902, the American military governor of Cuba was
ordered by the United States Secretary of War to continue
"the present government of the Isle of Pines" (which was American) "as the de facto.government."
By the terms of the proposed treaty, negotiated in 1903 and
still pending in the United States Senate, our country's present
ownership of the Isle of Pines is clearly recognized by the sections which provide for a transfer of our title to Cuba, the consideration being certain naval stations which we theretofore
possessed.
Under article II of the treaty, the Isle of Pines was ceded
directly to the United States.
It is a historical fact that at this time Spanish sovereignty
in the West Indies. was limited to Cuba,. Porto Rico, the Isle
of Pines, and some very small, insignificant islands, mostly
uninh abited and located round about these three large ones.
Such being the fact, the only reasonable conclusion from this
language can be, that by the "other islands" phrase it was the
intention of the parties to cede, and they did cede, the Isle of
Pines direct from the Crown of Spain to the people of the
United States just as plainly as Porto Rico, in the same article,
was ceded. It cannot be too greatly emphasized that such
is the only reasonable construction applicable to this phrase.
Unless it refers to the Isle of Pines,, it means nothing, and certainly it would be a most serious imputation to hold that the
learned commissioners deliberately. inserted words meaning
nothing or worse than nothing into so important a document
of state.
Official acts and declarations subsequent to the treaty support the same view.
Not only did all the parties thus intend at the time of the
making of the treaty, but subsequent acts .and declarations

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

for more than three years thereafter were almost uniformly

in support of this view. We already have official declarations, both executive and legislative.
The "Platt Amendment" expressly excludes the ,Isle -of
Pines from the boundaries of Cuba.
Plaintiff calls attention to article VI of the amendment
to the Army Appropriation Bill, passed March 2, 1901, and
widely known by the popular title "Platt Amendment."
This amendment, which is still in force, expressly provided
"that the Isle of Pines shall be omitted from the proposed
constitutional boundaries. of Cuba, the. title thereto being left
to future adjustment by treaty."
This clause is doubly significant, showing, as it does, the
attitude of both the republics. Up to this point we have
been noting- the acts of our own Government -and the attitude of our own people. That the Cubans themselves claimed
no conflicting title is clearly proven by their vote on June 12,
1901. Without discussion and without debate, the Cuban
Congress incorporated this identical language into their own
constitution. By so doing they expressly admitted, first, that
the Isle of Pines was- not then a part of the Cuban Republic,
and, secondly, that the isle should not become Cuban soil
unless granted to the Republic from the United States by
good and valid treaty. The effect of this action must have
been to leave the isle as theretofore, under American admin-.
istration and control; for when the congresses of both countries have expresslydeclared that at present the Isle of Phies
is not Cuban territory it must be territory of the United
States.
The Isle of Pines, not being a foreign country under the
tariff law, but, like Porto Rico, a part of the United States,
it follows that the seizure, etc., complained of 'by plaintiff
and the detention after' demand made was unwarranted,
illegal, and an act of conversion. De Lima v. Bidwell, 182
U. S.,1, 199'et seq.; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222;
Armstronjg v. United States, 182 U. S. 243.

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The Attorney General, The Solicitor General and Mr. Otis J.
Carlton, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for defendant in error, submitted:
Whether the Isle of Pines be included within the boundaries
of the United States is a political question, which cannot be
decided by this court, being nonjudicial in its nature.
The question in this case resolves itself irto a question of
boundaries within the principle of the following cases: Foster
v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253; Garciav. Lee, 12 Pet. 511; United States
v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691.
It is well settled that the courts of the United States are
scrupulous to exercise no power not clearly judicial in its
nature. Hayburn's case, 2 Dallas, 409; United States v. Ferreira, 13 How. 40; United States v. Yale Todd, 13 How. 52
(note); Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S. 697.
If it be considered that the title to the Isle of Pines has been
determined by the political departments to be in the United
States, the fact that the question of ownership by mutual agreement between the United States and the Republic of Cuba is
to be settled by arbitration, the adjudication to take the form
of a treaty, excludes this court from its jurisdiction to decide
the question of title in this case.
While this court, as a general rule, will decide questions of
individual rights, founded upon a treaty, by ascertaining and
following the determination of the political departments upon
political questions, still, if those departments, charged with
the settlement of our relations with foreign powers, have directed that political questions be settled in a certain manner,
that determination is, conclusive on the courts.
It is well settled that, even to determine questions judicial
in their nature, special tribunals may be erected, their decisions
to be final and conclusive on the courts. United States v.
Ferreira, 13 How. 40; Murray v. Hoboken &c.Co., 18 How.
280; Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 109; United States
v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S.253.
The Isle of Pines was not ceded to the United States by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

treaty of peace, article II, but was included within the term
"Cuba" in article I.
The Isle of Pines is, by a well-settled principle of international law, a part of Cuba. Hall'g International Law, edition

of 1895, pp. 129, 130.
We intervened in aid of the Cuban revolutionists from the
highest motives of. humanity, and not to wage a war of conquest.
The term "Cuba," historically and politically, includes the
Isle of Pines.
This is shown by the official acts of the Spanish Government, which, from 1774 to 1898, treated the Isle of Pines, as
included in the political division known as Cuba, just as the
Island of Nantucket is included in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.
Conceding, for the purposes of argument only, that the Isle
of Pines was ceded to the United States by the treaty of peace,
as we have never taken possession of the island, and as it has
been and is being governed by the Republic of Cuba, it has
not ceased to be "foreign country" within the Dingley Act.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff brought his action in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York against
the then collector of the port of New York to recover the value
of certain cigars seized by him, which had been brought to that
port from the Isle of Pines, whbre they had been produced and
manufactured. This seizure was made under the Dingley
Act, so called (act July 24, 1897, 30 Stat. 151, c. 11), and the
regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury thereunder. The
Dingley Act provided for the imposition of duties "on articles
imported from foreign cQuntries," and in' plaintiff's complaint
it was asserted that the Isle of Pines was "in possession of and
part of the United States," and hence- domestic territory.
The Government demurred, the demurrer was sustained, the

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

complaint dismissed and the case brought here on a writ of
error.
Whether the Isle of Pines was a part of the United States
is a conclusion of law not admitted by the demurrer. It was
certainly not such before the treaty of peace. with Spain, and,
if it became so, it was by virtue of that treaty. The court takes
judicial cognizance whether or not a given territory is within
the boundaries of the United States, and is bound to take the
fact as it really exists, however it may be averred to be. Jones
v. United States, 137 U. S.202; Lincoln v. United States, 197
U. S.419; Taylor v. Barclay, 2 Sim. 213.
August 12, 1898, a protocol of agreement for a basis for the
establishment of peace was entered into between the United
States and Spain, which provided:
"ARTICLE I. Spain will relinquish all claim of sovereignty
over and title to Cuba.
"ARTICLE II. Spain will cede to the United States the
island of Porto Rico and other islands now under Spanish
sovereignty in the West Indies, and also an island in the
Ladrones to be selected by the United States." 30 Stat. 1742.
This was followed by the treaty of peace, ratified April 11,
1899, containing the following articles:
"ARTICLE I. Spain relinquishes all claim of sovereignty over
and title to Cuba.
"And as the island is, upon its evacuation by Spain, to be
occupied by the United States, the United States will, so long
as such occupation shall last, assume and discharge the obligations that may under international law result .from the fact
of its occupation, for the protection of life and property."
"ARTICLE

II. Spain cedes to the United States the island

of Porto Rico and other islands Aow under Spanish sovereignty
in the West Iidies, and the island of Guam in the Marianas or
Ladrones." 30 Stat. 1754-1755.
In Neely v. Henkel, 180 U. S.109 (Jan. 14, 1901), the question was whether Cuba was a foreign country or foreign territory
within the act of Congress of June 6, 1900 (31 Stat. 656, c. 793),

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

providing for the extradition from the United States of persons
committing crimes within any foreign country or foreign territory or any part thereof, occupied or under the control of the
United StsVes. And it was held that Cuba was within this
description. Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion of the
court, said:
"The facts above detailed make it clear that within the
meaning of th6 act of-June 6, 1900, Cuba is foreign territory.
It cannot bQ regarded, in any constitutional, legal or international sense, a part of the territory of the United States.
"While by the act of April 25, 1898, declaring war between
this country and Spain, the President was directed and empowered to use our entire land and naval forces, as well as the
militia of the several States to such extent as was necessary,
to c rry such act into effect, that authorization was not for
the purpose of making Cuba an integral part of the United
States but only for the purpose of compelling the relinquishment by Spain of its authority and government in that island
and the withdrawal of its forces from Cuba and Cuban waters.
The legislative and'executive branches of the Government, by
the joint resolution of April 20, 1898, expressly disclaimed any
purpose to exercise sovereignty, jurisdiction or control over
Cuba 'except for the pacification thereof,' and asserted the
determination of the United States, that object being accomplished, to leave the government and controf of Cuba-to its
own people. All that has been done in relation to Cuba has
had that end in view and, so far as the court is informed by
the public history of the relations of this country with that
island, nothing has been done inconsistent with the declared
object of the war with Spain.
"Cuba is none the less foreign territory, within the meaning of the act of Congress, because it is under a military governor appointed by and representing the President in the work
of assisting the inhabitants of that island to establish a government of their owh, under which; as a free and independent
peopl,- they mrny control their own affairs without inter-

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ference by other nations. The occupancy of the island by
troops of the United States was the necessary result of the
war. That result could not have been avoided by the United
States consistently with the principles of international law
or with its obligations to the people of Cuba.
"It is true that as between Spain and the United Statesindeed, as between the United States and all foreign nationsCuba, upon the cessation of hostilities with Spain and after
the treaty of Paris was to be treated as if it were conquered
territory. But as between the United States and Cuba that
island is territory held in trust for the inhabitants of Cuba to
whom it rightfully belongs and to whose exclusive control it
will be surrendered when a stable government shall have been
established by their voluntary action."
If then the Isle of Pines was not embraced in article II of
the treaty, but was included within the term "Cuba" in article I, and therefore sovereignty and title were merely relinquished, it was "foreign country" within the Dingley Act.
This inquiry involves the interpretation which the political
departments have put upon the treaty. For, in the language
of Mr. Justice Gray, in Jones v. United States, 137 U. S.
202, "who is the sovereign, de jure or de facto, of a territory
is not a judicial but a political question, the determination of
which by the legislative and executive departments of any
Government conclusively binds the judges as well as all other
officers, citizens, and subjects of that Government."
By the joint resolution of April 20, 1898, 30 Stat. 738, entitled "Joint resolution for the recognition of the independence
of the people of Cuba, demanding that the Government of
Spain relinquish its authority and Government in the Island
of Cuba, and to withdraw its land and naval'forces from Cuba
and Cuban waters, and directing the President of the United
States to use the land and naval forces of the United States
to carry these resolutions. into effect," the United States disclaimed any disposition or intention to exercise sovereignty
or control over Cuba, except in the pacification thereof, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

asserted its determination, , when that was accomplished, to
leave the control of the island to its people. What was the
signification of the word "Cuba" at that time?
The record of the official acts of the Spanish Government
from 1774 to 1898 demonstrates that the Isle of Pines was included in the political division known as "Cuba." The first
official census of Cuba, in 1774; the "Statistical Plan of the
Ever Faitful Isle of Cuba for the Year. 1827;" the establishment by fe Governor General, in 1828, 6f a colony on the
island; the census of 1841; the budgets of receipts and expenses; the census for 1861, 1877, 1887, and so on, all show
that the Isle of Pines was, governmentally speaking, included
in the specific designation "Cuba" at the time the treaty was
made and ratified, and the documents establish that it formed
a municipal district of the province of. Habana.
In short, all the world knew that it was an integral part of
Cuba, and in view of the language of the joint resolution of
April 20, 1898, it seems clear that the Isle of Pines was not
supposed to be one of the "other islands" ceded by article II.
Those were islands not constituting an integral part of Cuba,
such as-Vieques, Culebra and Mona Islands adjacent to Porto
RiCo.
Has. the treaty been otherwise interpreted by the political
departments of this Government? The documents to which
we have had access, with the assistance of the presentation of
the facts condensed therefrom in the brief for the United States,
enable us to sufficiently indicate the 'situation in that regard,
and we think it proper to do this, notwithstanding the determination of the case turns at last on a short point requiring no
elaboration.
The Spanish 'evacuated Havana January 1, 1899, and the
government of Cuba was transferred to a military governor
as the representative of the President of the United States.
The President ordered, August 17, 1899, a census to be taken
as a first step. toward assisting "the people of Cuba." to establish "an effective system of self-government." In accomplish-

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
Opinion of tile Court.

205 U; S.

ing this the island was divided into 1,607 enumeration districts. Three enumerators took the census of the Isle of Pines,
which was described as a municipal district of the judicial
district of Bejucal, in the Provine of Habana. The report on
the census, as published by the War Department in 1900,
stated: "The government of Cuba has jurisdiction not only
over the island of that name, but also over the Isle of Pines,
lying directly to the south of it, and more than a thousand
islets and reefs scattered along its northern and southern
coasts.

.

.

. The Isle of Pines, with an area of 840 square

miles, is a municipal district of the Province of Habana.
.

.

.

The total population of Cuba, including Pe -Isle of

Pines and the neighboring keys, was, on October" 16, 1899,
1,572,797."
The population tables give the population of the Isle of
Pines as a municipal district of Habana' Province, and so' of
the statistics as to rural l)opulation; sex, nativity and color;
school attendage and sex; birthplace; conjugal condition;
ance; foreign whites; number and size of families; dwellings of
families-these and like items are given as to thc Isle of Pines
as under the Province of Habana.
In August, 1899, the Military Governor of Cuba appointed
a mayor fnd first assistant mayor of the Isle of Pines.
On June 16, 1900, an election was held throughout the
island, at.which the people of Cuba in all their municipalities
elected their municipal officers, participated in by the inhabitants of the Isle of Pines, as is stated in the report of the Colnmittee on Foreign Relations, Senate Document No. 205, Fiftyninth Congress, though this was denied ini a minority report.
A constitutional convention was called and the inhabitants
of the Isle of Pines participated in the election of delegates
thereto, September 15, 1900.
The convention conclude.I its work by October 1, 1901, and
December 31, 1901, an election was held to choose goverlors
of provinces, provincial councillors, members of the houise of
representatives, and presidential and senatorial electors, i i(ter

OCTOBER, TERM 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

an order of General Wood of October 14, 1901, No. 218, approved by the War Department, which divided the Province
of Habana into four circuits, the third being composed of several ayuntamientos, of which the Isle of Pines was one.
February 24, 1902, the electors met, chose senators, and
elected Sefior Palma, President, and Sefior Romero, Vice President.
The government was transferred to Cuba, May 20, 1902, and
in making the transfer, and declaring the occupation of Cuba
by the United States and the military government of the island
to be ended, the Military Governor wrote to "The President
and Congress of Cuba,," among other things: "It is understood
by the United States that the present government of the Isle
of Pines will continue as a de facto government, pending the
settlement of the title to said island by treaty, pursuant to the
Cuban constitution and the a~t of Congress of the United States
approved March 2, 1902[1]." On the same day President
Palma replied:
"It is understood that the Isle of Pines is to continue de
facto under the jurisdiction of the government of the Republic
of Cuba, subject to such treaty as may be entered into between
the Government of the United States and that of the Cuban
Republic, as provided for in the Cuban constitution and in the
act passed by the Congress of the United States, and approved
on the 2d of March, 1901." 31 Stat. 897.,
At that date the Isle of Pines was actually being governed
by the Cubans through municipal officers elected by its inhabitants, and a governor of the Province of Habana, councillors, etc., in whose choice they had participated. And see
Neely v. Henkel, 180 U. S. 109, 117, 118.
February 16, 1903, the Senate of the United States, by resolution, requested the President "to inform the Senate as to the
present status of the Isle of Pines, and what government is
exercising authority and control in said island."
In reply the President submitted a report from the Secretary
of War, which stated:

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

.269

Opinion of the Court..'

"The nature of the de facto government under which the
Isle of Pines was thus left pending the determination of the
title thereof by treaty is,
shown in the following endorsement
upon a copy of the said resolution by the late military governor of Cuba:
[Here follows the endorsement, dated February 20, 1903,
of which the following is a part:]
" 'At the date of transfer of the Island of Cuba to its duly
elected officials the Isle of Pines constituted a municipality
included within the municipalities of the. Province of Habana
and located in the judicial district of Bejucal. The government of theisland is vested in its municipal officers, sufbject
to the general control of the civil governor of the Province of
Habana, who is vested under the constitution of Cuba with
certain authority in the control of municipal affairs. Under
the military government of Cuba the Isle of Pines was governed
by municipal officials, subject to the general authority of the
civil governor, who received his authority from the Governor
General. The Isle of Pines, as it had existed under the military
government, was transferred as a de facto 'government to the
Cuban Republic, pending the final settlement of the status of
the island by treaty between the United States and Cuba.
The action taken by the military government was in accordance with telegraphic orders from the honorable the Secretary
of War. The government of the island to-day is in the hands
of its municipal officers, duly elected by the people unler the
general control of the civil governor of the Province of Habana
and the Republic of Cuba. As I un(lerstand it, the government of the Isle of Pines is vested in the Republic of Cuba,
pending such final action as may be taken by the United States
and Cuba looking to the ultimate disposition of tie island.
No special -action was taken to protect the interests of the
citizens of the United States who have purchased' property
and have settled in the Isle of Pines, fr the reason that no
such action was necessary. All Americans in the island are
living under exactly the same conditions as other foreigners,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

and if they comply with the laws in force it is safe to say that
they will not have any difficulty or need special protection.
At the time these people purchased property they understood
distinctly that the question of ownership of the Isle of Pines
was one pending settlement, and in locating there they took
the risks incident to the situation.'
We are justified in assuming that the Isle of Pines was always
treated by the President's representatives in Cuba as an integral part of Cuba. This was indeed to be expected in view
of the fact that it was such at the time of the execution of the
treaty and its ratification, and that the treaty did not provide
otherwise in terms, to say nothing of general principles of international law applicable to such coasts and shores as those
of Florida, the Bahamas, and Cuba. Hall, 4th ed., 129, 130;
Louisiana v. Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1, 53; The Anna, 5 C.Rob.
273.
In August, 1902, the Treasury Department decided that
duties should be assessed on goods coming from the Isle of
Pines at the same rates as on similar merchandise imported
from other places.
On July 2, 1903, a treaty with Cuba was signed, relinquishing any claim by the United States to the Isle of Pines under
the treaty of peace, but this failed of ratification, and on
March 2, 1904, another treaty was signed, which relinquished
all claim of title under that treaty.
November 27, 1905, the Secretary of State wrote an American resident of the Isle of Pines:
"The treaty now pending before the Senate, if approved by
that body, will relinquish all claim of the United States to the
Isle of Pines. In my judgment the United States has no substantial claim to the Isle of Pines. The treaty merely accords
to Cuba what ishers in accordance with international law and
justice.
"At the time of the treaty of peace which ended the war
between the Uiited States and Spain, the Isle of Pines was
and had been for several centuries a part of Cuba. I have no

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

doubt whatever that it continues to be a part of Cuba and that
it is not and never has been territory of the United States.
This is the view with which President Roosevelt authorized
the pending treaty, and Mr. Hay signed it, and I expect to
urge its confirmation."
There are some letters of an Assistant Secretary of War or
written by his direction, and other matters, referred to, which
we do not regard as seriously affecting the conclusion that the
Executive has consistently acted on the determination that
the United States had no substantial claim to the Isle of Pines
under the treaty.
The only significant legislative action is found in the proviso
of the act of March 2, 1901, the Army Appropriation Act (31
Stat. 895, c. 803), commonly called the Platt Amendment
(897), which reads:
"Provided further, That in fulfillment of the declaration
contained in the joint resolution approved April twentieth,
eighteen hundred -and ninety-eight, entitled 'For the recognition of the independ6nce of the people of Cuba, demanding
that the Government of Spain relinquish its authority and
government in the island of Cuba, and to withdraw its land
and naval forces fronr Cuba and Cuban waters, and directing
the Presidtent of the United States to use the land and naval
forces of the United States-to carry these resolutiois into effect,'
the President is hereby authorized to 'leave the government
and control of the island of Cuba to its people' so soon as a
government shall have been established in said island under a
constitution which, either as a part thereof or in an ordinance
appended thereto, shall, define the future relations of the
United States with Cuba, substantially as follows:,"
Then follows eight clauses, of which the sixth is:
"VI. That the Isle of Pines shall be omitted from the proposed constitutional boundaries of Cuba, the title thereto being
left to future adjustment by treaty."
It appears that certain American citizens, asserting interests in the Isle of Pines, had contended that it belonged to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

United States under the treaty, and the sixth clause of the
Platt Amendment, while not asserting an absolute claim of
title on our part, gave opportunity for an examination of the
question of ownership and its settlement through a treaty
with Cuba. The Republic of Cuba has been governing the
isle since May 20, 1902-the present situation need not be
discussed-and has made various improvements in administration at the suggestion of our Government, but Congress has
taken no action to the contrary of Cuba's title as superior to
ours.
It may be conceded that the action of both the political
departments has riot been sufficiently definite to furnish a conclusive interpretation of the treaty of peace as an original
question, and as yet no agreement has been reached under
the Platt Amendment. The Isle of Pines continues at least
de facto under the jurisdiction of the government of the Republic of Cuba, and that settles the question before us, because
as the United States have never taken possession of the Isle
of Pines as having been ceded by the treaty of peace, and as
it has been and is being governed by the Republic of Cuba, it
has remained "foreign country" within the meaning of the
Dingley Act according to the ruling in De Lima v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 1, and cases cited; United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat.
246. There has been no change of nationality for revenue
purposes, but, on the contrary, the Cuban Government has
been recognized as rightfully exercising sovereignty over the
Isle of Pines as a de facto government until otherwise provided.
It must be treated as foreign, for this Government has never
taken, nor aimed to take, that possession in fact and in law
which is essential to render it domestic.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concurred in the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurred

specially.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part.

PEARCY v. STRANAHAN.
205 U. S.

WHITz and HOLMES, JJ., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

with whom was MR.JUSTICE

HOLMES,

concurring.
My reasons for agreeing to the conclusion announced by the
court are separately stated to prevent all implication of an
expression of opinion on my part as to a subject which in my
judgment the case does not require and which, as it is given me
to see it, may not be made without a plain violation of my duty.
The question which the case raises, by way of a suit to recover duties paid on goods brought from the Isle of Pines, is
whether that island, by the treaty with Spain, became a part
of the United States, or was simply left or made a part of the
Island of Cuba, over which the sovereignty of Spain was relinquished.
I accept the doctrine which the opinion of the court anhounces, following Jones v. United States, 137 U. S.202, that
"who is the sovereign de jure or de facto of a territory is not a
judicial but a political question, the determination of which
by the legislative and executive departments of any government conclusively binds the judges as well as other officers,
citizens and subjects of that governinent." That the legislative
and executive departments have conclusively settled the present status of the Isle of Pines .as de facto a part of Cuba and
have left open for future deterliniation the de jure claim, if
any, of the United States to the island, as the court now declares, is to me beyond possible contention. Thus, by the
amendment to the act of 1891, which was enacted to determine
the de facto position of the island and to furnish a rule for the
guidance of the executive authority in dealing in the future
with the island, it was expressly provided "that the Isle of
Pines shall be omitted from the proposed constitutional boundaries of Cuba, the title thereto being left. to future adjustment
by treaty." So, also, when the Island of Cuba vas turned
over to the Cuban government by the military authority of
the United States, that governiment was expressly notified by
such authorifv, un(ler the direction of the President, that
voL. ca\--18

-OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
WHITE AND HOLMES, JJ.,

coucurring.

205 U. S.

whilst the de facto po6ition of the Isle of Pines as a part of

Cuba was not disturbed it imst be understood that its de jure
relation was reserved for future deterinination by treaty between Cuba and the United States. And this notification and
relation was in terms accepted by the President of the Republic
of Cuba. If the opinion now announced stopped with these
conclusive expressions I should of course have nothing to say.
But it does not do so. Although declaring that the de facto
position of the Isle of Pines as resulting from 'legislative and
executive action is binding upon courts, and although referring
to the conclusive settlement of that de facto status and the
reservation by the legislative and executive .departments of
the determination of the de jure status for future action, the
opinion asserts that it is open and proper for the court to express an opinion upon the de jure status, that is, to decide upon
the effect of the treaty. In doing so it is declared that all the
world knew that the Isle of Pines was an integral part of Cuba,
this being but a prelude to an expression of opinion as to the
rightful construction of the treaty. To my mind any and all
expression of opinion concerning the effect of the treaty and
the de jure relation of the Isle of Pines is wholly unnecessary
and cannot be indulged in without disregarding the very principle .upon which the decision is placed, that is, the conclusive
effect of executive and legislative action. In other words, to me
it seems, that the opinion, whilst recognizing the force of
executive and legislative action, necessarily disregards it.
This follows, beeause the views which are expressed on the
subject of the meaning of the treaty amount substantially to
declaring that the past action of the executive and legislative
departments of the government on the subject have been
wrong, and that any future attempt by those departments to
prceed upon the hypothesis that the de jure status of the
island is unsettled will be a violation of the treaty as now unnecessarily interpreted.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs.

