OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

the court any statement of those grounds purporting to be
exhaustive and complete, and the court cannot make an
inquisition into his mental processes to see whether they were
correct. See DeCambra v. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119, 122.
.We doubt if Congress meant to open an appeal to the courts
in all cases where an applicant is dissatisfied. Of course
the promise of the United States that there shall be allotted
one hundred and sixty acres to each member of the Wichita
,band may be said to confer an absolute right upon every
actual member of the band. But some one must decide who
the members are. We already have expressed the opinion
that the primary decision must come from the Secretary.
There is np indication of an intent to let applicants go farther.
There are insuperable difficulties in the way of at least this
form of suit, and the Department of the Interior generally
has been the custodian of Indian rights.
Judgment affirmed.

PEROVICH v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
THIRD DIVISION OF THE TERRITORY OF ALASKA.
No. 405.

Submitted January -29, f907.-Decided March 11, 1907.

While in this case there wias no witness to the homicide and the identification of the body found was not perfect, owing to it condition caused by
its having been partially burned, yet as the circumstantial evidence was
clearly enough to warrant the jury in finding that the body was that of
the person alleged to have been murdered and that he had been killed by
defendant, the trial court '*ould not have been justified in withdrawing
the case from the jury, but properly overruled a motion to instruct a
verdict of not guilty for lack of proof of the corpus delicti.
In the absence of positive proof, but where there is circumstantial evidence
of the corpus delicti, it is not error to submit to the jury the question of
defendant's guilt with the instruction that the circumstantial evidence

PEROVICH v. UNITED STATES.
205 U. S.

Argument for Iefendant in Error.

must be such as to satisfy the jury beyond a reasonable doubt that the
corpus delcti has been established.

The testimony of a marshal as to conversations betwden him and the defendant charged with murder which were voluntary, and not induced by
duress, intimidation or other improper influences, are admissible.
Whether in a criminal trial the court interpreter should be appointed is a
matter largely resting in the discretion of the court, and its refusal so to
do is not an error where it does not appear that the discretion was in any
way abused.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

There was no appearance or brief filed for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cooley, for defendant in error:
The orderly trial of criminal cases would be impossible if
the rule of practice contended for in the defendant's first
exception were adopted. It is settled law that exceptions
to the charge should be taken before the jury retires, in order
that the court may correct any error that may have been
made. Norman v. United States, 20 App. D. C. 494.
The court properly refused, after the Government had
rested its case, to instruct the jury to bring in a verdict of not
guilty because the corpus delicti had not been proved; because
the evidence was insufficient; because the evidence in no way
connected the defendant with the death of Jacob Jaconi,
and for other reasons, is assigned for error. This motion
was made after the Government rested its case. It was then
denied and an exception allowed. The defense then put in,its evidence and the motion was not subsequently renewed.
When, after such a motion, the defendant introduces testimony, an exception to the action of the court in refusing
to direct a verdict is waived. Union Pacific R. R. v. Daniels,
152 U. S. 684, and cases cited; Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S.
216, and Hansen v. Boyd, 161 U. S. 397.
The grounds upon which the request to strike out the
conversations with the deputy marshal was based, were
not stated. The motion, therefore, was properly overruled.
Camden v. Doremus, 3 How. 515; United States v. McMasters,

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U.S.

4 Wall. 680; Burton v. Driggs, 20 Wall. 125; Toplitz v. Hedden,
146 U. S. 252:
As no objection was taken to the ruling of the court sustaining the objection of. the district attorney to the appointment of an'interpreter, and as it will be seen, by reference to
the defendant's testimony that an interpreter was uniecessary, there was no error. The defendant evidently understood the questions that were asked him and answered them
intelligently. Moreover, whether or not the appointment
of an interpreter is necessary is within the sound discretion
of the trial court. Schall v. Elisner, 58 Georgia, 190; State v.
Severson, 78 Iowa, 653.
It is not the law that the corpus delicti "must be distinctly
proved, either by direct evidence of the fact or by inspection
of the body," because that would eliminate proof of the corpus
delicti by circumstantial evidence. Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush. 295; State v. Williams, 7 Jones (N. C.), 446.
Moreover, the defendant was not entitled to this instruction in the precise terms -prayed, and the court properly refused it. Catts v. Phalen, 2 How. 376; Robinson v. Parker,
11 App. D. C. 132.
This prayer was also fully covered in part of the court's
charge to the jury.
And as the law was there clearly stated to the jury, it was
not error to refuse the instruction. Coffin v. United States,
162 U. S. 664; Grand Trunk R. R. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408;
Erie Ry. v. Winter, 143 U. S. 60-74.
The instruction as to reasonable doubt complained of in
the eleventh assignment of error is taken verbatim from the
charge of Chief Justice Shaw to the jury in Commonwealth v.
Webster, 5 Cush. 320, and is cited with approval in Miles v.
United States, 103 U. S. 312.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
On July 17, 1905, Vuko Perovich, now plaintiff in error,
was indicted in the United States District Court of Alaska,

PEROVICH- v. UNITED-STATES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Third Division, for the murder of Jacob Jaconi. The trial,
on August 5, 1905, resulted in a verdict of "guilty of murder
in the first degree, and that he suffer death." Motions for
a new trial and arrest of judgment having been overruled,
he was, on September 15, 1905, sentenced to be hanged. To
review that judgment this writ of error was sued out. The
record was filed in this court on September 24, 1906, and
on application the case was advanced for hearing on January 21,
1907. No counsel appeared for plaintiff in error and no
brief was or has been filed in his behalf. The case was submitted by the Government 6n its brief. Although unaided
by counsel for plaintiff in error, we have carefully examined
the record and considered the assignments of error.
The testimony in the case was circumstantial. No witness saw the killing. Indeed, the first and principal question
is whether there was a homicide. Jaconi was a fisherman,
living alone in a log cabin covered' by a tent, about midway
between Fairbanks and Chena, a distance of about four miles
from each place. On October 28, 1904, the last time he was
seen alive,'he was at Fairbanks between 1 and 2 o'clock in
the afternoon, and had in his possession several nuggets, a
Yukon gold ring, a gold chain watch charm and some money,
part of which he deposited in a bank. In the early morning
of October 29 the dogs of the deceased were heard barking,
and two shots from a gun were heard-in the direction of his
cabin. On that day about noon one who had been the partner of Jaconi arrived at his camp and found the cabin in which
the deceased had lived partially destroyed by fire and the fire
still burning. In the rear where the bunk had been he saw the
back part of d head, a leg bone and the trunk of a man. The
head was sunken on the chest. While the cabin was not totally
destroyed, it was burned more towards the back where the
bunk had been, and the ground in the vicinity of the bunk
was saturated with oil. It appeared that Jaconi had in his
cabin about one and one-half gallons of olive oil. On that
day or the next several witnesses were at the cabin and saw

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

the skull and the other parts of the skeleton, still smoking,
and the bones so burned that they crumbled to pieces when
touched. Some two weeks before the fire the defendant
had said to a witness that he was broke but knew where he
could get some money if he had a partner to go with him,
as there was a man who ]ived abQut five miles from Chena
who had $500, a. watch and chain, a ring and a gun. On
October, 15, he was at the cabin of Jaconi about daylight.
At that time he said to the former partner of Jaconi, when
asked what he wanted, that he was travelling and looking
for a job. On October 20, defendant and a witness went to
Chena and on their way stopped at the cabin of Jaconi. After
leaving defendant told witness that .he had been there several
times before, and that the deceased had a roll of money, and
that he would lick him with an ax some day and throw him
in the water, or that he would make a fire and burn everything up. On October 28, the day on which Jaconi was
last'seen, the defendant was at Fairbanks, and said he was
going to the cabin of one of his countrymen to see if he could
find-anything in it. On October 29, between half past 3 and
4 o'clock in the afternoon, he arrived at a camp about twenty
miles from Chena. He had a rifle and. a canvas bag in his
possession, a Yukon ring and a gold watch and chain. He
made different and- contradictory statements to witnesses
about the watch. On November 5 he was arrested, having
in his possession $50 and a gold watch. He said that he
traded a nugget chain with two men for a'sack of clothes and
the watch. Later a sack of clothes was found where he had
left it. He said that he and his partner had made the chain,
and that he had bought his partner's interest in it. His partner testified that they owned the nugget chain, and that it
had never been out of his possession after it was made. Several of these articles and others found in possession of the
defendant were identified as the property of Jaconi. Other
circumstances of a similar nature were also shown in evidence.
It is assigned for error that the court overruled a motion

PEROVICH v. UNITED STATES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to instruct the jury to bring in a verdict of not guilty for the
reason that the corpus delicti had not been proved. This
motion was made after the plaintiff had rested, and upon
its being overruled the defendant proceeded to offer testimony.
The motion was not thereafter renewed. Without resting
upon the proposition that introducing testimony after such
a motion has been overruled is a waiver of any exception, to
the action of the court (Union PacificRailway v. Daniels,
152 U. S. 684; Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216; Hansen v.
Boyd, 161 U. S. 397), weare of the opinion that neither.at
that time nor at~the close of all the testimony would the court
have been justified in .withdrawing the case from the jury.
While it is true there was no witness to the homicide and the
identification of the body found in the cabin was not perfect
owing to its conditi6n caused. by fire, yet, taking all the circumstances together, there was clearly enough to warrant
the jury in finding that the partially burned body was that of
Jaconi and that he had been killed by the defendant. Upon
this question the case of Commonwealth v. Williams, 171
Massachusetts, 461, is closely in .point and instructive. While
the particular facts are not identical, the character and scope
of the testimony are substantially the same.
Again, it. is alleged that there was error in overruling a
motion made by defendant to strike out all the testimony
given by a deputy marshal of conversations between him and
the defendant. As, these conversations were not induced
by duress, intimidation or, other improper influences, but were
perfectly voluntary, there is no reason why they should not
have been received.
Other matters referred to in the assignment of errors require but slight notice. One is that the court erred in refusing
to appdint an interpreter when the defendant was testifying.
This is a matter largely resting in the discretion of the trial
court, and it does not appear from the answers made by the
witness that there was any abuse of such discretion.
Error is also alleged in refusing an instruction as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

evidence necessary to establish the corpus delicti. It is enough,
in answer to this objection, to refer to the summary of the
testimony we hAve already given and to note the fact that
the court instructed that the evidence fmust be such as to
satisfy the jury beyond a reasonable doubt.
The defense asked one or two instructions, such as this:
"The fact that Jacob Jaconi has not been seen since the
twenty-eighth day of October, 1.904, does not create a presumption of his death." Singling out a single matter and
emphasizing it by special instruction as often tends to mislead as to guide a jury. Doubtless the isolated fact that
Jaconi had not been seen world not of itself establish the
fact of his death. It is only a circumstance which, taken in
connection. with the other facts in the case, tends to prove
the death.. It is merely one iink in a long chain, and the court
is seldom called upon by special instructions to single out any
single link in a chain, and affirm either its strength or weakness.
Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408, 433; Rio Grande
Western Ry. Go. v. Leak, 163 U. S. 280, 288.
Objection is made to the instruction ii reference to reasonable doubt. This instruction is taken from the charge of
Chief Justice Shaw to the jury in Commonwealth v. Webster,
5 Cush. 295, 320, and that case has been cited with approval
by this court. Miles v. United States,,103 U. S. 304, 312.
These are all the questions which we deem it necessary
to notice, and while we should have been glad to have had the
assistance of counsel for plaintiff in error, yet we are satisfied
from our examination of the record that the defendant was
properly convicted, and the judgment is
Affrmed.

