TINDLE v. B1RKETT.
Syllabus.

205 U; S.

they will leave the prisoner to be dealt with by the courts of
the State; that after a final determination of the case by the
state court, the Federal courts will even then generally leave
the petitioner to his remedy by writ of error from this court.
The reason for this course is apparent. It is an exceedingly
delicate jurisdiction given to the Federal courts by which a
person under an indictment in a state court and subject to its
laws may, by the decision of a single judge of the Federal court,
upon a writ of habeas corpus, be taken out of the custody of the
officers of the State and finally discharged therefrom."
Without now expressing any opinion as to the constitutionality of the statute in question, or as to the mode in which it was
administered in the state court, for the reason's stated the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, with directions to set aside the order discharging the appellee, and to
enter an order denying the application for a writ of habeas
corpus, leaving the appellee in the custody of the State, with
liberty to apply for a writ of error to review the above judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington.
It is so ordered.

TINDLE v. BIRKET.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 217.

Argued February 28, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

Where a claim is founded upon an open account or upon a contract, express
or implied, and can be proved under ยง 63a of the bankruptcy act, if the
claimant chooses to waive the tort and take his place with the other
creditors, the claim is one provable under the act and barred by the
discharge. The words in the fourth subdivision of ยง 17, "while acting
as an officer, or in any fiduciary capacity," extend to "fraud, embezzleCrawford v. Burke,
ment, misappropriation," as well as "defalcation."
195 U. S. 176.
183 N. Y. 267, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U.S.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank Gibbons for plaintiffs in error:
Section 17 of the act provides that none but provable debts
are released by a discharge. These debts are not provable
debts and, therefore, are not released within the principles laid
down in the second proposition of Crawford v. Burke, 195U. S. 176, 193.
The qualifying clause "while acting as an officer or in any
fiduciary capacity" found in ยง 17, subd. 4, of the act, relates
to the word "defalcation" only and not to any of the preceding words, "fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation."
Under the bankruptcy act of 1867 debts created by fraud
or arising out of fiduciary relations and in tort generally, were
not dischargable. In the highest courts of many of the States,
as well as in many of the United States Circuit Courts, it was
held that, if, prior to the bankruptcy, a judgment was obtained for the fraud, then the fraud and tort became merged
into the judgment, a contract of record, and was released as a
contract indebtedness. Wolcott v. Hodges, 81 Massachusetts,
547; Ellis v. Hays, 28 Maine, 385; Crouch v. Gridley, 6 Hill,
256; Kellogg v. Schuyler, 2 Denio, 73; Blake v. Biglow, 5 Georgia,
437; Comstock v. Grout, 17 Vermont, 512; In re Adson Comstock, 22 Vermont, 642; Manning v. Keyes, 9 R. I. 224; In re
Wiggers, 2 Bliss, 71; In re Samuel Book, 3 McLean, 317; Hays
v. Ford, 55 Indiana, 52.
No counsel appeared for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action brought in 1899 to recover damages
claimed to have been sustained in consequence of specified
false and fraudulent representations made by the firm of which
the defendant was survivor, by reason whereof plaintiffs alleged

TINDLE v. BIRKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

they were deceived into selling goods to defendant's firm, which
they otherwise would not have done. The complaint contained three counts, setting up separate items of damages,
namely, $349.30, $230.83 and $321.73 for goods sold, and
judgment was demanded for the aggregate with interest on
each item.
One of the defenses was that plaintiffs' claims were barred
by a discharge in bankruptcy of defendant's firm, to which
plaintiffs replied that they were not such as could be discharged in. bankruptcy proceedings.
The New York Court of Appeals held that, according to the
rulings of this court in Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176, the
alleged indebtedness to plaintiffs was covered by the discharge,
and directed plaintiffs' complaint to be dismissed. Tindle v.
Birkett, 183 N. Y. 267.
This writ of error was then prosecuted, and plaintiffs' counsel
contends that their debts were not provable debts and therefore not. discharged, and that Crawford v. Burke might well be
modified in view of certain suggestions deemed to be novel.
Sections 17 and 63a of the bankruptcy act of 1898 read as
follows:
"SEc. 17. A discharge in bankruptcy shall release a bankrupt from all of his provable debts, except such as .
(2) are judgments in actions for frauds, or obtaining property
by false pretenses or false representations, or for willful and
malicious injuries to the person or property of another; .
or (4) were created by his fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, or defalcation while acting as an officer or in any fiduciary
capacity."
"SEc. 63. Debts which may be proved:
"(a) Debts of the bankrupt may be 'proved and allowed
against his estate which are (1) a fixed liability, as evidenced
by a judgment or an instrument in writing, absolutely owing
at the time of the filing of the petition against him, whether
then payable or'not

.

.

.

; (4) founded upon an open ac-

count, or upon a contract express or implied; and (5) founded

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

upon provable debts reduced to judgments after the filing of
the petition and before the consideration of the bankrupt's
application for a discharge,
Counsel admit that the claims in question were all liquidated. By their nature and amount as well as by the form
of the complaint they stand upop the contracts originally
made. Whiteside .v.Brawley, 152 Massachusetts, 133, 134.
Crawford v. Burke was an action in trover instituted in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, by Burke against
Crawford and Valentine, plaintiffs in error, to recover damages for the willful and fraudulent conversion of the interests
of the plaintiff in certain shares of stock. There were ten
counts in .the declaration, five charging fraudulent conversion
-of that stock, and five, the obtaining of money from plaintiff
in the way of margins by means of false and fraudulent representations. Defendants pleaded their discharge in bankruptcy, but were found guilty on all the counts, and judgment
was entered against them, which was affirmed by the Appellate
Court and by the Supreme Court of Illinois. This court
held that plaintiff's claim was "provable under the bankruptcy

act," that is, was "susceptible of being proved," and that
it might have been proved under section 63a as "founded
upon an open account or upon a contract express or implied,"
if plaintiff had chosen to waive the tort and take his place
with the other creditors of the estate. And that the words,
in the fourth subdivision of section 17, "while acting as an
officer, or in any fiduciary capacity," extended to "fraud,
embezzlement, misappropriation" as well as "defalcation."
That case completely determines this as the New York
Court of Appeals correctly held.
Judgment affirmed.

