OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

MERCANTILE TRUST COMPANY v. HENSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 245. Submitted March 15, 1907.-Decided April 8. 1907.
It is for the plaintiff in error to show affirmatively that error was committed, it is not to be presumed and will not be inferred from a doubtful
statement in the rec6rd.
Where thereis no evidence of the amount of damage caused by each partiqular breach but only 'of the total amount sustained, the attention of
the trial court should have been called to the plaintiff's objection to a
recovery of particular damage permitted, and a request made foy direction of verdict, and in the absence thereof the objection cannot be
argued here.
Although under a building contract the builder, to be entitled to payment,
must first obtain the certificate of* the architect, in the absence of a
provision in plain language to that effect, the certificate is not conclusive
as to the amount due nor a bar to the owner showing a violation of the
contract, in material parts, by which he has sustained damage.
27 App. D. C. 210, affirmed..

THE Mercantile

Trust Company, by this writ of error, seeks to
review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, affirming a judgment against it of the Supreme
Court of the District for the sum of $8,468. The action was
brought upon a bond for fifty thousand dollars, executed
January 24, 1900, by the company as surety for one Jones, for
the performance by him of a written contract entered into on
the,.same date between him and the defendant in, error, who
was the plaintiff below, relative to the completion by Jones
for the defendant in error of certain houses already in process
of. construction' in the city of Washington, 'The condition of
'the bond was, in substance, that if the principal, Jones, should
duly an d faithfully perform and fulfill all the conditions of
the contradt entered into between him and the defendant in
error the bond was to be void, otherwise to remain in force.
The contract provided that Jones, for the consideration
mentioned therein, would within seven monthS from the date
thereof well and sufficiently erect and replace all defective

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. HENSEY.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

work and finish the twenty-one brick dwelling houses mentioned "agreeably to the drawings and specifications made by
Melville D. Hensey, architect, and which. planSand specifications are signed by the said parties hereto and hereunto annexed within the time aforesaid in a good, workmanlike and
substantial manner, to the satisfaction and under the direction
of Bates Warren, or the architect placed in charge by him,
to be testified by writing or certificate under the hand of'Bates
Warren, or the architect placed in charge by him, and also
shall and will find and provide such good; proper and sufficient material of all kinds whatsoever as shall be proper and
sufficient for the completing and finishing all of said twentyone houses and other works of the said buildings mentioned
in the said specifications for the sum of eighty-nine thousand
two hundred and fifty dollars, to be paid as set out in the,
schedule of payments hereto annexed and signed by the
parties hereto and made a part hereof." Hensey, "in consideration of the covenants and agreements being strictly
performed and kept by the said party of the second part as
specified," agreed to pay the contractor the above-named sum
"as the work progresses in the manner and at the time set
out" in the schedule of payments hereto annexed and signed
by the parties hereto and made a part of this agreement;
provided that in each of the said cases a certificate shall be
obtained from and signed by the architect in charge that the
contractor is entitled to payment, said certificate, however,
in no way lessening the total and final responsibility of the
contractor; neither shall it exempt. the contractor from liability to replace work if it be afterwards discovered to have
been ill done oi" not according to the drawings and specifications
either. in execution or materials; and, further, that the party
of the second part shall furnish, if required, satisfactory evidence that no lien does or can exist upon the work." The last
payment provided for in the contract vas to be made, "when
the houses are fully completed in accordance with the said
agreement and the plans and specifications prepared therefor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

All the materials were to be new and of the best quality,
and the contractor was to "execute and complete all the work
as set forth in the specifications and drawings in the best and
most workmanlike manner." It was agreed that " in all cases
of doubt as to the meaning of the drawings reference is to be
made to the architect in charge, whose decision will be final."
Although this contract was entered into in January, 1900,
and under it the houses were to be completed in seven months,
yet, for some reason, Bates Warren, the person named in the
contract, did not appoint an architect until April, 1901, when
he appointed Mr. W. J. Palmer. The evidence given on the
part of the plaintiff tended to prove that the contractor,
Jone*, abandoned the work on the houses early in the fall of
1900, leaving them uncompleted, and the work was otherwise
carried on during the following winter, but that there was no
architect in charge until Mr. Palmer's appointment. From
that time Mr. Palmer seems to have in some degree superintended the work, and on the twenty-ninth of July, 1901,
reported in writing to Mr. Warren the completion of the
houses in question. In his letter Mr. Palmer said: "The
work has been done according to my interpretation of the plans
and specifications, and where deviations have been made from
the plans and specifications it has been where the same were
inconsistent and ambiguous, and in all cases of inconsistency
and ambiguity the work has been done according to the interpretation most beneficial to the houses."
This action was subsequently commenced for the purpose
of recovering the damages which the plaintiff Hensey alleged
he had sustained by reason of the failure of Jones to fulfill and
carry out the contract. Issue being duly joined between the
parties, the plaintiff gave evidence tending to prove that the
houses were not completed within the contract time, nor
according to the plans and specifications in the particulars
stated, and that the value of the houses was between two
and three thousand dollars less on each house than it would
have been had they been completed according to the contract,

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. HENSEY.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

plans and specifications. The defendant duly objected to
such evidence and took exceptions to its admission.
A verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiff in the sum
of $8,468, after allowing the- defendant's claim of set-off of
$29,032.
Mr. Hayden Johnson and Mr. John Ridout, for plaintiff in
error, submitted:
The testimony of all the. plaintiff's witnesses who testified
in respect of deficiencies in construction being as to the total
damage sustained by the plaintiff, as the result of structural
defects, defective materials and omissions, and the trial court
having ruled that the jury should consider omissions alone,
there was no basis upon which the jury could segregate damages caused by defective materials and damages caused by
omissions so as to reach a verdict in accordance with the
court's rulings.
All the witnesses who were produced by the plaintiff testified, in proof of the damage sustained by the plaintiff, that the
difference in the value of the houses by reason of the omissions,
structural defects and defective materials was' from $2,000
to $3,000 less on each house than it would have been had they
been completed according to the witness's interpretation of
the contract, plans and specifications. No witness was in-.
terrogated in respect of the difference in the value of the
houses by reason of omissions alone. No witness undertook
to segregate the items assigned as breaches, and give tie
damage arising from each alleged defect.
Under the rulings of the court, therefore, the case was submitted to the jury for them to assess damages only for omissions, if any they should find, and they were expressly instructed not to assess damages for substitutions of material or
modification of construction mad- vith the approval of the
architect under his interpretation of the plans and specifications.
This necessarily requires, in view of the testimony of the
architet, that what "substitutions of material and modifica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

tions of construction were made with his approval and according to his interpretation of the plans and specifications,
that the jury segregate the damage arising from omissions
from the damages resulting from substitutions of material
and modifications of construction. Unless from the testimony
they can do this, the charge given them in the twelfth prayer,
and its explanation by the court, becomes idle and useless.
And yet all the testimony in the case, as far as the money
estimate for damage is concerned, lumps omission, structural
defects and defective materials, and furnishes no basis whatever upon which they can be segregated. Even though all
of the substitution of materials and modifications of construction were not made with the consent of the architect,
it is conceded that some of them were, so this segregation is
none the less essential in giving the jury a basis upon which
to assess damages.
Under the building agreenent, the architect's certificate of
completion should have been held to be final and conclusive
of such completion, there being no evidence of fraud or bad
faith on his part.
Taking into consideration that there is not one word in the
record from which fraud or bad faith on°the part of either
Warren or Palmer could be inferred, it is believed that they,
having been made the arbitrators by Hensey as to the proper
construction of the work, and the Trust Company having
acted under their directions, their decision is final and binding
upon Hensey.
The law upon the subject is entirely settled. Boettler v.
Tendick, 73 Texas, 494; Crane Elevator7Co. v. Clark, 80 Fed.
Rep. 705; Railway Co. v. Gordon, 151 U. S. 285; RailroadCo. v.
Price, 138 U. S. 188; Sweeney v. United States, 109 U. S. 618.
Mr. Arthur A. Birney and Mr. Henry F. Woodard, for defendant in error, submitted:
While.it is competent for parties to agree that the certificate
of an engineer, architect or other person shall be final and

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. HENSEY.
205 U. S.

6pinion of the Court.

conclusive, and that in such case, and "in the absence of fraud,
or such gross mistake 'as to necessarily imply bad faith, or
failure to exercise an honest judgment, the action 'of the
architect would be final," this attribute of finality attaches
only where the parties have so agreed, either in terms or by
necessary implication, is clear from the decisions.
Cases of such express agreement for conclusiveness which
are cited by the other side, are Boettler v. Tendick, 5 L. R. A.
270; Sweeney v. United States, 109 U. S. 618; Railroad Co. v.
March, 114 U. S. 549; Railroad Co. v. Pice, 138 U. S. 185;
Sheffield R. R. Co. v. Gordon, 151 U. S. 287; while Kihlberg v.
United States, 97 U. S. 400, is a case of necessary implication,
treated by the court as an express agreement.
These cases and others are reviewed in Central Trust Co. v.
Louisville &c. Ry' Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 282, where, after pointing
out that the provision for finality is found in the contracts
in those cases where the certificate was held conclusive, the
court says that the court should not imply such an agreement
but should require clear and express language, because it is
contracting away the right of the party to appeal to the courts
of justice in case of a controversy.
But however it may be in other cases 7vhere the architect,
agent of the owner, accepts and certifies' work as done according to the contract, in this case the certificate cannot
bind, because the right of the owner, 'notwithstanding a
certificate, to claim for bad work and inferior materials is
expressly reserved to him; and 'the certificate is so clearly
wrong as to prove either fraud or such mistake by the architect as necessarily to imply bad faith, and for this reason is
not binding. Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S. 402.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

After even more than the usual number of pleas, additional
pleas, replications, rejoinders and demurrers, which are to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

found in the pleadings in this District, the parties came to
trial on the issues of fact, and the plaintiff recovered a verdict
as stated. The judgment entered'on the verdict was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals. 27 App. D. C. 210.
The grounds submitted in this court for the reversal of the
judgment are reduced to two, set forth in the brief for the
plaintiff in error, as follows:
"First, that the testimony of all the plaintiff's witnesses
who testified in respect of deficiencies in construction being
as to the total damage sustained by the plaintiff as the result
of structural defects, defective materials and omissions, and
the trial court having ruled that the jury should consider
omissions alone, there was no basis upon which the jury could
segregate damages caused by defective materials and damages
caused by omissions so as to reach a verdict in accordance
with the court's ruling.
"Second, that under the building agreement, the architect's
certificate of completion should have been held to be final
and conclusive of such completion, there being no evidence
of fraud or bad faith on his pirt."
In regard to this first ground of reversal, the record is at
first sight somewhat confused. The plaintiff in error asserts
that there was no evidence given segregating the items upon
which the sum total of the damage was arrived at; that the
evidence given on the part of the plaintiff, was that the houses
were each worth between two and three thousand dollars less
on account of the failure of plaintiff in error to fulfill the conditions of the contract, but that it is impossible to discover
from that evidence what amount of the damage was due to
omissions, what amount to structural defects and what amount
to defective material; and, as the court instructed the jury that
in considering the question of structural defects -they were
not at liberty to consider anything but omissions, and were
not entitled to consider substitutions of material or modifications of construction made with the approval of the architect
under his interpretation of the plans and specifications, there

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. HENSEY.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was in reality no evidence before the jury upon which they
could have estimated the damages under the instruction
given them by the court; that all the witnesses testified simply
as to the total diminution in value, as a result of the three
items mentioned-omissions, structural defects and defective
material-while the court charged, agreeably to the twelfth
request of the plaintiff in error, that they were at liberty only
to consider damages resulting from omissions.
The twelfth prayer of the plaintiff in error, which its counsel
asserts was granted by the court, is as follows:
"The jury are instructed that, in considering the question of
structural defects, they are not at liberty to consider anything
but omissions, if any they find, and are not entitled to consider substitutions of materials or modifications of construction
made with the approval of the architect, under his interpretation of the plans and specificrations."
There are several answers to the first ground urged by the
plaintiff in error for a reversal of this judgment.
(1) It does not appear that there is any basis in the record
for the assertion of the plaintiff in error, that there was no
evidence given showing the amount of damage sustained
from each of the breaches of the contract, but only a state-.
ment of the sum total sustained by reason of all the breaches.
The bill of exceptions does not purport to set forth all the
evidence given upon the trial of the case. There is a generalstatement that the plaintiff in error gave evidence by several
witnesses that, the houses were not completed according to
the plans and specifications in the contract, in the particulars
set forth in the assignment of breaches, and that the value,
by reason of the omissions, structural defects and defective
materials, was from two to three thousand dollars less-on
each house than it would have been had they been completed
according to the contract, plans and specificati(ns. This
is not at all equivalent to saying that there is no evidence
except as to the total damage. It is much more probable
that on the trial such evidence was given, and that the stateVOL. ccv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

ment in the bill is simply a summary of the total amount of
damage, which the evidence showed in detail had been sustained from each particular breach. It does not mean that
there was no evidence of the amount of the damage caused
from each breach that was proved. It is very improbable
that the case was tried in any such manner. The amount of
damage on account of each breach, that was proved would
most naturally have also been proved as part of the case.
It is part of the duty of a plaintiff in error, affirmatively
to show that error was committed. It is not to be presumed,
and will not be inferred from a doubtful statement in the record.
We think in this case the record fails to show the absence
of thp evidence as argued by the plaintiff in error.
(2) If, however, we assume that there was no such evidence in detail and only a conclusion given as to the total
amount of damage, and if we further assume that the twelfth
request of the plaintiff in error was charged by the court,
and the right of recovery was thereby limited as stated, it
does not appear that the plaintiff in error made any point on
the trial of the absence of the evidence of damage in detail,
or that the court was asked to direct a verdict for the defendant on account of its absence. If there were no evidence
of the amount of damage caused by each particular breach,
but only of the total amount sustained, and the plaintiff in
error desired to avail itself of that objection to a recovery
for the particular damage permitted, counsel should bave
called the attention of the court to the point, and requested a
direction of a verdict for the defendant on that ground. No
such request was made, and nothing was said which would
show that counsel for the plaintiff in error had any such
objection in mind, and he cannot argue an objection here
which was never taken in the trial court.
(3) In truth the court did not limit the recovery of damages,
as is set forth in the above-mentioned twelfth request to
charge, but permitted a recovery for the total sum of the
various items proved.

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. HENSEY.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant in error insists that the twelfth request,
instead of being charged, was in fact refused by the court.
We think that in this assertion the defendant in error is perfectly right. Some little confusion at first appears on looking
in the record, caused by a mistaken reference to the request
which was charged, but a more careful perusal of all that
appears regarding the charge of the court, and the requests
and refusals to charge, brings us to the conclusion that there
is not the slightest doubt that the court refused the twelfth
request, instead of charging it. In such case there was no
occasion for segregating the items of damage proved.
This leaves the argument of the plaintiff in error upon the
first ground wholly without merit.
The other ground taken for a reversal in this case is that
the architect's certificate of July 29, 1901, was conclusive
between the parties and was a bar to the maintenance of
this action.
Mr. Palmer, in his letter or certificate, reported the completion of the buildings according to his interpretation of
the plans and specifications, and that where deviations had
been made from them it was where the same were inconsistent and ambiguous, and in all cases of inconsistency and
ambiguity the work had been done according to the interpretation most beneficial to the houses.
We do not think this certificate was conclusive, and it did
not, therefore, bar the maintenance of this action. The
language of the contract, upon which the claim is based,
is set out in the foregoing statement, and while it provides
that the work shalt be completed agreeably to the drawings
and specifications made by M. D. Hensey, architect, in a good,
workmanlike and substantial manner, to the satisfaction and
under the direction of Bates Warren, or the architect placed
in charge by him, to be testified by writing or certificate under
the hand of Bates Warren, or the architect placed in charge
by him, it omits any provision that the certificate shall be
final and conclusive between the parties. In other words

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion'of the Court.

205 U. S.

the contract provides that before the builder can claim payment at all he must obtain the certificate of the architect;
but after such certificate has been given, there is no provision
which bars the plaintiff from showing a violation of the contract in material parts, by which he has sustained damage.
A contract which provides for the work on a building to be
performed in the best manner and the materials of the best
quality, subject to the acceptance or rejection of an architect,
all to be done in strict accordance with the plans and specifications, does not make the acceptance by the architect final and
conclusive, and will not bind the owner or relieve the contractor from the agreement to perform according to plans and
specifications. Glacius v. Black, 50 N. Y. 145; Fontano v.
Robbins, 22 App. D. C. 253.
There is also in the contract the provision already mentioned in the statement of facts in regard to payments as the
work progressed, which showed that a certificate was to be
obtained from and signed by the architect in charge, before
the contrac tor was entitled to payment, but it was provided
that the certificate should "in no way lessen the total and
final responsibility of the contractor; neither shall it exempt
the contractor from liability to replace work, if it be afterwards discovered to have been done ill, or not according to
the drawings and specifications either in execution or materials."
There is the further positive agreement of the contractor to
execute and complete all the work as set forth in the specifications in the best and most workmanlike manner, and also
that final payment is to be made only when the houses are
completed in accordance with the agreement and the plans
and specifications prepared therefor.
. The whole contract shows, in our opinion, that
the certificate
that the houses had been completed according to the contract
and its plans and specifications was not to be conclusive of
the question, and the plaintiff was not thereby precluded
from showing that in fact the contractor had not complied
with his contract, and the plaintiff had thereby sustained

JOHNSON v. BROWNE.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

damage. The cases cited in the opinion of the court below,
Fontano v. Robbins, 22 App. D. C. 253; Bond v. Newark,
19 N. J. Eq. 576; Memphis &c. R. R. Co. v. Wilcox, 48 Pa.
St. 161; Adlard v. Muldoon, 45 Illinois, 193, are in substance
to this effect. To make such a certificate conclusive requires
plain language in the contract. It is not to be implied. Central Trust Co. v. Louisville &c. R. R. Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 282,
284. The cases of Sweeney v. United States, 109 U. S. 618;
Martinsburg &c. Railroad Co. v. March, 114 U. S. 549; Chicago &c. Railroad Co. v. Price, 138 U. S. 185; Sheffield &c.
R. R. Co. v. Gordon, 151 U. S. 285, were all cases in which the
contract itself provided that the certificate should be final
and conclusive between the parties.
The only case in which the certificate of the architect or
his decision was by the contract made final was in case of
doubt as to the meaning of drawings, in which case reference
was to be made to the architect in charge, whose decision was
to be final.
Both grounds urged by the plaintiff in error in this court for
reversal of the judgment are untenable, and it must therefore
be
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

took no part in the decision of this case.

JOHNSON

v. BROWNE.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN
No. 481.

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March 4, 5, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

Although the surrender of a person demanded under an extradition treaty
has been made, it is the duty of the courts here to determine the legality
of the subsequent imprisonment which depends upon the treaties in
force between this and the surrendering governments.

