CASES ADJUDGED
IN TIlE

SUPREME COURT OF TilE UNITF) STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.

SCHLEMMER, v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER AND PITTSBURG RAILVAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STA'TE OF PENNSYIVANIA.
No. 41.

Argued January 18, 21, 1907.--Decided March 4, 1907.

Statements of a -witness although based ol hearsay constitute evidence in
the cause unless seasonably objected to as hearsay.
The provisions of § 2 of the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, as
amended ,April 1, 1896, declaring it to be unlawful for any common
carrier engaged in interstate commerce to haul or permit to be hauled
or used on its line any car used in moving interstate commerce not equipped
with couplers coupling automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled without the necessity of .men going between the ends of the cars,
relate to.all kinds of cars running on the rails, including locomotives and
steam shovel cars. Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 I,1. S. 1.
The object of that statute was to protect the lives and limbs of railroad
employes by rendering it unnecessary for men operating the couplers
to go between the ends of the cars, and the words "used in moving interstate traffic" occurring therein are not to be taken in a narrow sense.
In a suit based upon the Safety Appliance Act of March 2,1893, as amended
April 1, 1896, the plaintiff is not called upon to negative the proviso
of § 6 of said act, either in his pleadings or proofs. Such proviso
merely creates an exception and if the defendant wishes to rely thereon
the burden is upon it to bring itself within the terms of the exception;
those who set up such an exception must establish it.
Where a Federal question is duly raised at the proper time and in a proper
manner in the state court and the judgment of the state court necesVol. Cv-I
(I)

1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

sarily involves the decision of such question this court on writ of error
will review such judgment although tim state court in its opinion made
no reference to the question. And if it is evident that the ruling of the
state court purporting to deal only with local law has for its premise or
necessary coneomitant a cognizable mistake, that may be sufficient to
wvarrant a review.
Assumption of risk as extended to dangerous conditions of machinery,
premises and th like, obviously shades into negligence as commonly understood. The difference between the two is one of degree rather than

of kind.
Section 8 of the Automatic Coupler Act having exonerated the employ6
from assumption of risk under specified conditions, the employd's rights

in that regard should not be sacrificed by charging him with assumption of risk under another name, for example, with contributory negligence.

In this case the so-called contributory negligence of the deceased employ6
was so involved wvith and dependent upon erroneous views of the statute,
that the judgment complained of must be reversed.
207 P'a. St. 198, reversed.

''HE facts are stateid in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney and Mr. Luther M. Walter,.
with whom Mr. Edward A. Moseley and Mr.A. J. Truilt were
on the brief, fvr the plaintiff in error:
The steam shovel which the deceased, in the performance of
his duty as a brakeman, was endeavoring to couple up'to the
caboose was a "car" within the purview of section 2 of the.
act of March 2, 1893, commonly known as the "Safety Appliance Act." The purpose of that act was to promote the safety
of employds and travelers upon railroads; the act is remedial
in'its character and should be construed so as best to accomplish the intent and purpose of the Congress. Johnson v.
Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1; Kansas City Co. v. Crocker,
11 So. Rep. 262; Thomas v. Railroad-Co., 38 Georgia, 222,
Perez v. San Antonio &c. Ry. Co., 28 Texas Civ. App. 255;
Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Webb, 72 S. W. Rep. 1044.
The steam shovel was en route from Limenstone, New York,
to a point in Pennsylvania. That the steam shovel was bolted
to a platform which was supported on trucks running upon
the rails does not militate against the conclusion that its

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, &c. RY.
205 U. S.

3

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.movement across state lines and from a point in one State to
a point in another constituted interstate commerce. Though
supported by its own trucks and running on its own wheels it
nevertheless was freight and was being trarsported by defendant in error in pursuance of its general business as a common
carrier. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wh. 1; Lottery case, 188 U. S.
321-345;'Peoria& Pekin Union Ry. Co. v. C., R. I. & P. Ry.
Co., 109 Illinois, 135.
Inasmuch as the steam shovel car was within the purview
of the statute, it follows that as it was not equipped with an
automatic coupler as required by that statute its movement
was in violation of law. Section 8 of the act of March 2, 1893,
provides that if any employ6 of a common carrier subject to
the act is injured by any car in use contrary to the provision
of the act such employ6 shall not be deemed to have assumed
the risk thereby occasioned.
• It is our contention that the doctrine of assumption of risk
in this case was so inextricably interwoven with the question
of supposed contributory negligence on the part of the deceased that the prime matter for adjudication by the state
court was the applicability of the Federal statute to the facts
disclosed by the evidence. The refusal of the state court to
accord to the statute controlling influence constituted, upon
the facts and circumstances shown by the evidence, reversible
error.
This court has jurisdiction to review judgments of the
Supreme Court of a State when a Federal question has been
properly raised in and disposed of by that court. Whether a
Federal right was sufficiently pleaded and brought to the
attention of the state court is itself a Federal question, and the
decision of this court on writ of error is not concluded by the
view taken by the highest court of the State, Carter v. Texas,
177 U. S. 442, 447, citing Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370,
396-397; Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633, 645; Boyd v. Thayer,

143 u. S. 135, 180.
Where in this court a party asserts that the final judgment

OCTOBER TERI, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

of the highest court of a State denied to him a right or immunity
set up and claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United
States and the court finds that a Federal question involving
such claim was properly raised below, jurisdiction of this court
to review that judgment cannot be defeated by the mere
failure or the refusal of the highest court of the State to refer
to the question so raised. Erie R. R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S.
148.

It is immaterial that the state court considered the case to
fall within the principles of general law untrammeled by
statutory enactments. The grasp of the Federal statute, if
any it had, must first have been released before the general
law can be given play. The construction, scope, and applicability of the statute invoked to the facts disclosed.by. the
evidence raise Federal questions in respect to which the party
who claims under such statute, and whose claim is denied,
has a right to invoke the judgment of this court. Anderson v.
Carkins, 135 U. S.483.
While it is conceded that this court cannot enter upon an
inquiry as to whether the finding of a jury in a state court is
against the evidence, Missouri, Kansas & Texas R. R. Co. v.
Haber, 169 U. S. 639, nevertheless the question as to- the sufficiency, competency, or legal effect of the evidence as bearing
upon a question of Federal law raised in the course of the trial
to support the conclusion reached' by the state court may be.
reviewed by this court, as the supreme court of error of a State
may review the proceediogs of inferior courts of original jurisdiction. Mackey v. Dillon, 4 How. 447; Dower v. Richards,
151 U. S.658.
Before accepting this steam shovel car it was the defendant's
duty to inspect it and to see that it complied with the statute.
Railroadv. Mackey, 157 U. S. 72; United States v. Southern Ry.,
135 Fed. Rep. 122.
The proximate cause of the accident in this case was the
failure of the defendant company to require the equipment of
the chr,with automatic couplers. Railroad Co. v. Holloway,

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, &c. RY.
205 U. S.

5

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

191 U. S. 334; Elmore v. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co., 41 S. E.
Rep. '786.
A violation of a statutory obligation by an employer is
negligence per se. Union Pac. Ry. Co. v. McDonald, 152 U. S.
262, and cases cited. Contributory negligence will not bar a
recovery when the defendant itself has violated a positive
requirement of law. Flint &c. R. Co. v. Lull, 28 Michigan,
510, 515; The Pennsylvania, 19 Wall. 125; Carterville Coal Co.
v. Abbott, 181 Illinois, 49,5; Kansas City, M. & B. R. R. v.
Flippo, 138 Alabama, 487.
The evidence in this case should have been submitted to the
jury. It may well be doubted whether there is any evidence
of negligence on the part of deceased. It certainly can not be
said that all minds, from the evidence, would arrive at the
conclusion that deceased had been guilty of negligence causing
his own death. The decisions of this court have well settled
the law to be that the case must go to the jury wherever there
is reasonable ground for ordinary minds to arrive at different
conclusions. Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657, 663.
The witnesses as to the, occurrence of the accident were employ s of the defendant in error and in a sense were interested
witnesses; therefore the measure of credence to be given their
evidence should have been left to the jury. Texas & Pac.
R. Co. v. Carlin, 189 U. S. 354, 361.
The defendant in error by -refusing to haul the defective
car could have avoided the injury to Schlemmer, and although
Schlemmer might have been guilty of ordinary want of care
and caution, still the defendant in error was liable, since by
using reasonable care and prudence it might have avoided
the consequences of plaintiff's negligence. Grand Trunk
Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408.
From theimmere fact of the occurrence of the injury negligence
is not to be presumed. Northern Pac. R. I?. v. Everett, 152
U. S. 107.
In the courts of Pennsylvania, as well as those of the United
States, 'the trend of decision in the more recent cases is to the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

effect that, except in cases in which both the evidence and all
inferences which may be drawn therefrom are all one way,
questions of negligence and contributory negligence are for the
jury.. Esher v. Mineral R. & Min. Co., 28 Pa. Super. Ct. 387;
Kilkeary v. Thackery, 165 Pa. 584; HogaV. v. West Mahony Tp.
&c. Co., 174 Pa. 352; Fettermanv. Rush Twp., 28 Pa. Super. Ct. 7.
Mr. M. E. Olmsted, with whom Mr. C. H. McCauley and
Mr. A. C. Stamm were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The state court having decided the case upon the ground of
corntributory, negligence, which does not present a Federal
question, its judgment would not be reviewable here even
though another issue, presenting a Federal question, had been
squarely raised.
Even though a Federal question had been squarely raised in
the Supreme Court of. Pennsylvania, nevertheless, as the defense of cofitributory negligence was found by that court to be
a complete defense, it would have been unnecessary for it to
pass upon the Federal questi6fr and its failure to (to so could
not have been assigned as error here. Adams County v. Burlington & Missouri R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 123; Ohouteau v. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; Murdock v-. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 636. See
also Jenkins v. Loewenthal, i10 U. S. 222.
Where the Supreme Court of a State decides a Federal question, in rendering a judgment, and also decides against the
plaintiff in error on an independent ground not involving a
Federal question, and broad enough to maintain the judgment,
the writ of error will be dismissed, without considering the
Federal question. Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; McManus v.
O'Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578; Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327; Citizens'
Bank v. Board of Liquidation,98 U. S. 140; Chouteau v. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; Adams County v. Burlington & Missouri Railroad, 112 U. S. 123; Detroit City Raiway v. Guthard, 114U. S.
133; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Refining
Co., 125 U. 8. 18; De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216, 234.
The trial judge having declared that upon plaintiff's own

SCHLEMMEIR v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTEIM, &c. R.Y.
205 U. S.

7

Argument for Defendant in Error.

evidence she was not entitled to recover because of the contributory negligence of the deceased; and the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania having affirmed the judgment upon that ground
alone, there is nothing to which- the jurisdiction of this court
can attach.
Assumption of risk and contributory negligence are separate
and distinct defenses. The act of 1893 relates to the former
only. It does not take away the latter.
Under the law of Pennsylvania, plaintiff would not be entitled to recover even if the deceased had not been guilty of
contributory negligence, because it is the law, of that State
that an employ6 assumes the risks incident to the discharge
of his duties, even though those duties are hazardous, if he'
has had an opportunity to ascertain their dangerous character. Pattersonv. R. R. Co., 76 Pa. St. 389; Pittsbiirgh & Connellsville R. R. Co. v. Sentmeyer, 92 Pa. St. 276.
The act of 1893 do6 not apply to this case at all; but if it
did it simply took away from defendant that single ground
of defense, namely, the assumption of risk by the employ6.
Recovery by a plaintiff is precluded where his or her own
negligence has proximately contributed to his or her own
injury. Washington & Georgetown R. R. Co. v. McDade, 135
U. S. 554; 7 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 371; Sunney v. Holt, 15
Fed: Rep. 880; Motey v. Pickle M. & G. Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 155.
Although under the act of 1893, where applicable, an employ6 will not be deemed to have assumed the risk of the
employment, nevertheless he must act in such manner that
injury shall not befall him as the result of his own fault or
imprudence. The distinction between "assumption of risk"
and "contributory negligence" has always been clearly drawn.
C. 0. & G. R. R. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64; Narramore v. Ry.
Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 298; St. Louis Cordage Co. v. Miller, 126
Fed. Rep. 495; Hesse v. R. R. Co*, 58 Ohio St. 167; Miner v.
R. R. Co., 153 Massachusetts, 398.
The provision in the act of 1893 that no employ6 of a common carrier, who may be injured by any car in use contrary .to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

the provisions requiring automatic couplers, shall be deemed
to have assumed the risk occasioned thereby, can have no
effect on the general principle of law that recovery by a plaintiff
is precluded where his own negligence has proximately contributed to, and, as in this case, caused, his own injury. Winkler
v. Phila. & R. R. R., 53 Atl. Rep. 90; C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co.
v. Baker, 91 Fed. Rep. 224; D. & R. G. R. R. Co. v. Arrighi,
129 Fed. Rep. 347; Narramore v.. C. C. C. & St. L. R. R., 96
Fed. Rep. 298; L. E. & W. Ry. Co. v. Craig, 73 Fed. Rep. 642;
Hodges v. Kimball, 104 Fed. Rep. 745; Dixon V. W. U. Tel. Co.,
68 Fed. Rep. 630; Kilpatrik,. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 27 Am.
& Eng. R. R. Cases, 945.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for the. death. of. the plaintiff's intestate,
Adam M. Schlemmer, while 'trying to couple a shovel car to a
caboose. A nonsuit was directed at the trial and the direction
was sustained by the Su'retne Court of the State. The shovel
car was part of a train on its way through Pennsylvania from
a point in New York, and was not-equipped with an automatic
coupler in accordance with theact of March 2, 1893, c. 196, § 2,
27 Stat. 531. Instead of such a coupler it had an iron drgwbar
fastened underneath the car by a pin and projecting about a
foot beyond the car. This drawbar weighed about eighty
pounds and its free end played up anddown. On this end was
an eye, and the coupling had to be done by lifting the free end,
possibly a foot, so that it should enter a slot in an automatic'
coupler on the caboose and allow a pin to drop through the eye.
Owing to the absence of buffers on the shovel car and to its
being so high that it would pass over those on the caboose,
the car and caboose would crush any one between them if
they came together- and the coupling failed to be made.
Schlemmer- was ordered.to make the coupling as the train was
slowly approaching the caboose. To do so he had, to get between the, crs, keeping below the level of the bottom of the

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, &c. RY.
205 U. S.

9

Opinion of the Court.

shovel car. It was dusk and in endeavoring to obey the
order and'to guide the drawbar he rose a very little too high,
and, as he failed to hit the slot, the top of his head was crushed.
The plaintiff in her declaration alleged that the defendant
was transporting the shovel car from State to State and that
the coupler was not such as was required by existing laws.
At the trial special attention was called to the United States
statute as part of the plaintiff's case. The court having directed a nonsuit with leave to the plaintiff to move to take
it off, a motion was made on the ground, among others, "that
under the United States statute, specially pleaded in this case,
the decedent was not deemed to have assumed the risk owing
to the fact that the car was not equipped with an automatic
coupler." The question thus raised was dealt with by the
court in overruling the motion. Exceptions were allowed and
an appeal taken. Among the errors assigned was one "in
holding that the shovel car was not a car used in interstate
commerce or any other kind of traffic," the Words of the court
below. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment in words
that we shall, quote. We are of opinion that the plaintiff's
rights were saved and that we have jurisdiction of the case,
subject to certain matters that we shall discuss.
On the merits there are two lesser questions to be disposed
of before we come to the main one. A doubt is suggested
whether the shovel car was in course of transportation between
points in different States, and also an argument is made that
it was not a car within the contemplation of §'2. On the
former matter there seems to have been no dispute below.
The trial court statesthe fact as shown by the evidence, and
testimony that the car was coming from Limestone, New York,
is set forth, which, although based on the report of others, was
evidence, at least unless objected to as hearsay. Damon v.
Carrol,163 Massachusetts, 404, 408, 409. It was the testimony
of the defendant's special agent employed to investigate the
matter.
The latter question is pretty nearly answered by Johnson v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 16. As there observed,
"Tested by context, subject matter and object, 'any car'
meant all kinds of cars running on. the rails, including locomotives." "The object was to protect the lives and limbs
of railroad employds by rendering it' unnecessary for a man
operating the couplers to go between the ends of the cars."
These considerations apply to shovel cars as well as to locomotives, and show that the words "used in moving interstate
traffic" should not be taken in a narrow, sense. The later act
of March 2, 1903, c. 976, 37 Stat. 943, enacting that the provision shall be held to apply to all cars and similar vehicles,
may be used as an argument.on either side, but in our opinion
indicates the intent of the original act. 196 U. S. 21. There
was an error on this. point in the decision below.
A faint suggestion was made that the proviso in § 6 of the
act, that nothing in it shall apply to trains composed of fourwheel cars, was not negatived by the plaintiff.. The ,fair inference from the evidence is that this was an unusually large car of.
the ordinary pattern. But, further, if the defendant wished to
rely upon this proviso, the burden was upon it to bring itself
within the exception. The word "provided" is used in our
legislation for many other purposes beside that of expressing
a condition. The only condition expressed by this clause is
that four-wheeled cars shall be excepted from the requirements
of the act. In substance' it merely creates an exception,,
which has been said to be the general purpose of such clauses.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 361 37.
"The general rule of law is, that a proviso carves special exceptions only out of the body of the act; and those who set UP
any such exception must establish it," etc. Ryan v. Carter,
93 U. S.78, 83. United States v. Dixon, 15 Peters; 141, 165.
The rule applied to construction is applied equally to the burden of proof in a case like this. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall.
168; Commonwealth v. Hart, 11 Cush. 130, 134.
We come now to the main question. The opinion of the
Supreme Court was as follows: "Whether the Act of Congress
.

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, &(;..RY. 11
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

has any applicability at all in actions for negligence
in the courts of Pennsylvania, is a question that does not arise
in this case, and we therefore express no opinion upon it.
The learned judge bblow sustained the nonsuit on the ground
of the deceased's contributory negligence and the judgment
is affirmed on his opinion on that subject." It is said that the
existence of contributory negligence is not a Federal question
and that as the decision went off on that ground there is nothing
open to revision here.
We certainly do not mean to qualify or limit the rule that,
for this court to entertain jurisdiction of a writ of error to a
state court, it must appear affirmatively that the state court
could not have reached its judgment without tacitly, if not
expressly, deciding the F"ederal matter. Bachtel v. Wilson,
January 7, 19.07, 204 U. S. 36. But on the other hand, if
the question is duly raised and the judgment necessarily, or
by what appears in fact, involves such a decision, then this
court will take jurisdiction, although the opinion below says
nothing about it. Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay
& Missi. Canal Co., 142 U. S.254. And if it is evident that a
ruling purporting to deal only with local law has for its premise or necessary condorhitant a cognizable mistake, that may
be sufficient to warrant a review. Terre Haute & Indianapolis
.Railroad Co. v. Indiana, 194 U. S. 579. The application of this
rather vague principle will appear as we proceed.
It is enacted by § 8 of the act that any employ6 injured by
any car in use contrary to the provisions of the act, shall not
be deemed to have assumed the risk thereby occasioned,
although continuing in the employment of the carrier after
the unlawful use had been brought to his knowledge. An early,
if not the earliest, application of the phrase " assumption of
risk " was the establishment of the exception to the liability of a
master for the negligence of his servant when the person injured was a fellow servant of the negligent man. Whether an
actual assumption by contract was supposed on grounds of
'economic theory, or the assumption was imputed because of a

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion o-f the Court.

205 U.

conception of justice and convenience, does not matter for the
present purpose. Both reasons are suggested in the wellknown case of Farwell v. Boston & Worcester R. R. Co., 4 Met.
49, 57, 58* But, at the present time, the notion is not confined
to risks of such negligence. It is extended, as in this statute
it plainly is extended, to dangerous conditions, as of machinery,
premises and the like, which the injured party understood
and appreciated when he submitted his .person to them. In
this class of cases the risk is said to be assumed because a
person who freely and voluntarily encounters it has only himself to thank if harm comes, on a general principle of our law.
Probably the modification of this general principle by some
judicial decisions and by statutes like § 8 is due to an.opinion
that men who- work with their hands have not always the freedom and equality of position assumed by the doctrine of
laissez faire to exist.
Assumption of risk in this broad senseobviously shades into
negligence as commonly understood. Negligence consists in
conduct which common experience or the special knowledge
Of the actor shows to be so likely to produce the result complained of, under the circumstances known to the actor, that
he is held answerable for that result, although it was not certain,
intended, or foreseen. He is held to assume the risk upon the
same ground. Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf R. R. Co. v. McDade,
191 U. S. 64, 68. Apart from the notion of contract, rather
shadowy as applied to this broad form of the latter conception,
the practical difference of the two ideas is in the degree of their
proximity to the particular( harm. The preliminary conduct
of getting into the dangerous employment or relation is said
to be accompanied by assumption of the risk. The act more
immediately leading to a specific accident is called negligent.
But the difference between the two is one of degree rather than
of kind; and when a statute exonerates a servant from the
former, if at the same time it leaves the defense of contributory
negligence still open to the master, a matter upon which we
express no opinion, then, unless great care be taken, the

SCHLEMMEIM v. BUFFALO. ROCHESTIlR, &c. RY.
205 U. S.

13

Opinion of the Court.

servant's rights will be sacrificed by simply charging him with
assumption of the risk under another name. Especially is this
true in Pennsylvania, where some cases, at least, seem to have
treated assumption of risk and negligence as controvertible*
terms. Patterson v. Pittsbrg & Comtellsrille R. R.. Co., 76
Pa. St. 389. We cannot hel l) thinking that this has happened
in the present case, as well as that the ruling upon Schlemmer's
negligence was so involved with and dependent upon erroneous
views of the statute that if the judgment stood the'statute
would suffer a wound.
To recur for a moment to the facts, the only ground, if any,
on which Schlemmer could be charged with negligence is that
when he was between the tracks he was twice warned by the
yard conductor to keep his head down. It is true that he had
a stick, which the rules of the company required to be used in
coupling, but it could not have been used in this case, or at
least the contrary could not be and was not assumed for the
purpose of directing a nonsuit. It was necessary for him- to
get between the rails and under the shovel car as he did, and
his orders contemplated that he should do so. But the opinion
of the trial judge, to which, as has been seen, the Supreme
Court refers, did not put the decision on the fact of warning
alone. Oh the contrary, it began with a *statement that an
employ6 takes the risk even of unusual dangers if he has notice
of them and voluntarily exposes himself to them. Then it
went on to say that the deceased attempted to make the coupling with the full knowledge of the danger, and to imply that
the defendant was guilty of no negligence in.using the arrangement which it used. It then decided in terms that the shovel
car was not a car within the meaning of § 2. Only after these
preliminaries did it say that, were the law otherwise, the deceased was guilty of contributory negligence; leaving it somewhat uncertain what the negligence was.
It seems to us not extravagant to say that the final ruling
was so implicated with the earlier errors that on that ground
alone the judgment should not be allowed to stand. We are

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
BRE~wER, PECKHAM, McKENNA and DAY, JJ.,.dissenting.

205 U.

clearly of opinion that Schlemmer's rights were in no way impaired by his getting between the rails and attempting to
couple the cars. So far he was saved by tho provision that he
did not assume the risk. Te negligence, if any, came later.
We 'doubt if this was the opinion of the court below. But
suppose the nonsuit has been put clearly and in terms on
Schlemmer's raising his head too high after he had been warned.
Still we could not avoid dealing with the case, because it still
would be our duty to see that his privilege against being held
to have assumed the risk of the situation should not.be impaired
by holding the same thing under another name. If a man not
intent on suicide but desiring to live, is said to be chargeable
with negligence as matter of law when . he miscalculates the
height of the car behind him by an inch, while his duty requires
him, in his crouching position, to direct a heavy drawbar
moving above him into a small slot in front, and this in the
dusk, at nearly nine of an August evening, it is utterly impossible for us to interpret this ruling as not, however unconsciously,
introducing the notion that to some extent the man had taken
the risk of the danger by being in the place at all. But whatever may have been the meaning of the local courts, we are of
opinion that the, possibility of such a minute miscalculation,
under such circumstances, whatever it may be called, Was so
inevitably and clearly attached to the risk which Schlemmer
did not assume, that to enforce the statute recuires that the
judgment should be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE .BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
PECKHAM, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE DAY,
dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case and
for these reasons:
This was an action in the Common Pleas. Court of Jefferson
County, Pennsylvania, to recover damages on account of the
death of the, husband of plaintiff. On the trial the court or-

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER,.&c. RY.
205 U. S.

15

BREWER, PECKHAM, MCKENNA and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

dered a nonsuit on the ground of contributory negligence on
the part of the decedent, with leave to the plaii~tiff to move
to take the same off. This motion was made and overruled;
judgment for the defendant was entered, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. The decedent was killed
while attempting to couple a steam shovel to a caboose. The
steam shovel was being moved in interstate transportation
and was not equipped with the safety, coupler required by
act of Congress of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531. The eighth
section of that act provides:,
"That any employ6 of any such common carrier who may
be injured by any locomotive, car or train in use contrary to
the provision of this act shall not be deemed thereby to have
assumed the risk thereby occasioned, although continuing in
the employment of such carrier after the unlawful use of such
locomotive, car-or train had been brought to his knowledge."
This, while removing from the employ6 the burden of any
assumption of risk, does not relieve him from liability for contributory negligence. For the rule is.well settled that while,
in cases of this nature, a violation of thestatutory obligation of
the einployer is negligence per se, and actionable if injuries
are sustained by servants in consequence thereof, there is
no setting aside of the ordinary rules relating to contributory
negligence, which is available as a defense, notwithstanding
the statute, unless that statute is so worded as to leave no doubt
that this defens-e is also to be excluded. Taylor v. Carew
Manufacturing Cohipany, 143 Massachusetts, 470; Krause v.
Morgan, 53 Ohio St. 26; East Tenne.ssee, &c. RailroadCompany
v. Ru.sh, 15 Lea (Tenn.), 145, 150; Qtieen v. Dayton Coal, &c.
Company, 95 Tennessee, 458; Reynold, v. Hindman, 32 Iowa,
146; 'Caswell v. Worth, 85 E. C. L. 849; Buckner v. Richmond,
&c. RailroadCompany, 72 Mississippi, 873; Victor Coal Company
v. Muir, 20 Colorado, 320; Holum., Admr., &c. v. Chicago, &c.
Railway Company, 80 Wisconsin, 299; Kilpatrick v. Grand
Trunk Railway, 74 Vermont, 288; Denier & R. G. Railroad
Company v. Arrighi, 129 Fed. Rep. 347; Winkler v. Pila-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
BREWER, PECKHAM, MCKENNA and DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

205 U. S.

delphia &c. Railroad Company, 4 Pennewill's Delaware Rep.
80. The Interstate Commerce Commission held this to be the
rule in reference to this particular statute. 14th Ann. Rep.
1900, p. 84. Indeed it is not contended by the majority that
the defense of contributory negligence has been taken away.
That there is a vital difference between assumption of risk
and contributory negligence is clear. As said by this court in
Choctaw, Oklahoma, &c. Railroad Company v. McDade, 191
U. S. 64, 68: "The question of assumption of risk is quite apart
from that of contributory negligence." See also Union
Pacific Railway Co. v. O'Brien,' 161 U. S. 451, 456. This
proposition, however, is so familiar and'elementary that citation
of authorities is superfluous.
In the motion for a nonsuit the second proposition was that
"the evidence upon behalf of plaintiff proves conclusively that
the accident happened because the deceased failed to keep his
head at least as low as the floor of the steam shovel-that this
omission was the fault of the deceased exclusively-and that
deceased was guilty of contributory negligence and there can
be no recovery in this case."
In ordering the nonsuit. the trial court said:
"True, under said act he was not considered to have assumed
the risks of his employment, but by this is certainly meant no
more than such risks as he was exposed to thereby, and resulted in injury free from his own negligent act. It would
hardly be argued that defendant would be liable, under such
circumstances, were the employ6 to voluntarily inflict an injury
upon himself by means of the use of the improperly equipped
car. And yet it is but a step from contributory negligence to
such an act.
"It seems very clear to us that, Whatever view we may take
of this case, we are led to the legal conclusion that decedent
was guilty of negligence that contributed to his death, and
that the plaintiff, however deserving she may be, or however
much we regret the unfortunate accident, cannot recover."

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, &c. RY.
205 U. S.

BREWER, PECKHAM, McKENNA'

and

DAY,

17

JJ., dissenting.

The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment in the following
per curiam opiiion:
"Whether the act of Congress in regard to the use of automatic couplings on cars employed .ininterstate commerce has
any applicability at all in actions for negligence in the courts
of Pennsylvania is a question that does not arise in this case,
and we therefoie express no opinion upon it. The learned
judge below sustained the nonsuit on the ground of tle deceased's contributory negligence, and the judgment is affirmed
on his opinion on that subject."
That contributory negligence is a non-Federal question is"
not doubted, and that when a state court decides a case! upon
grounds which are non-Federal and sufficient to sustain the
decision this court has no jurisdiction is conceded.
While sometimes negligence is a mixed question of law and
fact, yet in the present case, whether the decedent in attempting to make the coupling, after the' warning given by the conductor, lifted his head unnecessarily and negligently, is solely
a question of fact, and in cases coming on error from the judgment of a state dourt the findings of that court on questions
of fact have -always been held conclusive on us. See Chriman
v. Miller, 197 U. S. 313, 319, and the many cases cited in the
opinion.
It would seem from this brief statement that the case dught
to be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. Escape. from this
Tconclusion can only be accomplished in one of these ways: By
investigation of the testimony and holding that there was no
proof of contributory negligeice. If the case came from one
of the lower Federal courts we might properly consider whether
there was sufficient. evidence.of contributory negligence; but,
as shown above, a very different rule obtains in respect to
cases- coming from a state court. We. said this very term, in
Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S; 36, 40, in reference to a case coming from a state court to this: "'Before we can pronounce this
judgment in conflict with the Federal Constitution it must be.
made to appear that this dccision was one necessarily in conVOL. ce\,-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
BREWER, PECKHAM, MCIKENNA and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

205 U. S.

flict therewith, and not that possibly or even probably it was.,"
Before then we can disturb this judgment of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania it must (paraphrasing the language
just quoted a little) be made to appear that its decision of the
question of contributory negligence was one necessarily in
disregard of the testimony and not that possibly or even
probably it was.
It cannot be said that there was no evidence of negligence on
the part of the decedent. The plaintiff's testimony (and the
defendant offered none) showed that deceased was an experienced brakeman; that the link and pin coupling was in
constant use on other than passenger coaches; that before the
deceased went under the car the pin had already been set;
that as he was going under the car he was twice notified to be
careful and keep his head down, and yet, without any, necessity
therefor being shown, he lifted his head and it was crushed
between the two cars; that all he had to do was to guide the
free end of the drawbar into the slot, and while the drawbar
weighed seventy-five to eighty pounds, it was fastened at one
end, and the lifting and guiding was only of the other and loose
end; that the drawheads were of the standard height and the
body of the shovel car higher than that of the caboose. Imme 7
diately thereafter the coupling was made by another brakeman
without difficulty. If an iron is dangerously hot, and one
knows that it is hot and is warned not to touch it, and does
touch it without any necessity therefor being shown, and is
thereby burned, it is trifling to say that there is no evidence of
negligence.
A second alternative is that this court finds that the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania recognizes no difference between assumption of risk and contributory negligence. But that is
not to be imputed in view of the rulings in the lower*court,
affirmed by the Supreme Court, to say nothing of the recognized standing and ability of that court.
Or we may hold that the Pennsylvania courts intentionally,
wrongfully and without any evidence thereof found that there

SCHLEMMER v. BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, &c. RY. 19
205 U. S.

BREWER, PECKHAM, McKENNA

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

was contributory negligence in order to avoid the binding force.
-of the Federal law. During the course of the argument, in
response to an interrogation, counsel for plaintiff in error
bluntly charged that upon those courts. Of course this court
always speaks in respectful terms of the decisions it reviews,
but the implication of the most courteous language may be
as certain as a direct charge.
It is intimated that the Pennsylvania courts confuse assumption of risk and contributory negligence-in other words,
are unmindful of the difference between them, and Patterson
v. Pittsburg, &c. Railroad Company, 76 Pa. St. 389, is cited as
authority. That case was, decided more than thirty years
ago, and might, therefore, fairly be considered not an expression of the. present views of those courts. But on examination
of the case, in which a judgment in favor of the railroad was
reversed by the Supreme Court, we find this language which
is supposed to indicate the confusion. (pp. 393, 394):
"In this discussion, however, we are not to forget that the
servant is required to exercise ordinary prudence. If the
instrumentality by which he is required to perform his service
is so obviously and immediately dangerous, that a man of
common prudence would refuse to use it, the master cannot be
held liable for the resulting damage. In such case the law
adjudges the servant guilty of concurrent negligence, and will
refuse him that aid to which he otherwise would be entitled.
But where the servant, in obedience to the requirement of the
master, incurs the risk of machinery, which though dangerous,
is not so much so as to threaten immediate injury, or where it
is reasonably probable that it may be safely used by extraordinary caution or skill, the rule is -different. In such case the
master is liable for a resulting accident."
Curiously enough in Narramore v. Cleveland, &c. Railway
Company, 37 C. C. A. 499, 505, a recent decision of the Court
of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, in the opinion announced by
Circuit Judge Taft'is language not altogether dissimilar:
"Assumption of risk and contributory negligence approxi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Sylblabus.

205 IT. S.

mate where the danger is so obvious and imminent that no
ordinarily prudent man would assume the risk of injury therefrom. But where the danger, though present and appreciated,
is one which many men are in the habit of assuming, and which
prudent men who must earn a living are willing to assume for
extra compensation, one who assumes the risk cannot be said

to be guilty of contributory negligence if, having in view the
risk of danger assumed, he uses care reasonably commensurate
with the risk to avoid injurious consequences. One who does
not use such care, and who, by reason thereof, suffers injury,
is guilty of contributory negligence, and cannot recover,
because he, and not the master, causes the injury, or because
they jointly cause it."
For tfiese reasons I dissent from the opinion and judgment,
and am authorized to say that Ma. JUSTICE PECKHAM, MR.
JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in this dissent.

TINSLEY v. TREAT, UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 369.

Argued December 3, 4, 1906.-Decided March 4, 1907.

A district judge of the United States on application to remove from the
district where defendant is arrested to that where the offense is triable
acts judicially and the provision of § 1014, Rev. Stat., that the proceedings are to be conducted agreeably to the usual mode of process in the
State against offenders has no application to the inquiry on application
-for removal.
While in a removal pro'ceeding under § 1014, Rev. Stat., an indictment
constitutes prima facie evidence of probable cause it is not conclusive,
and evidence offered by the defendant tending toshow that no offense
triable .in the district to which removal is sought had been committed
is admissible; and its exclusion is not mere error but the denial of a right
secured under the Federal Constitution.

