OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

entirely disassociated from the general proceedings of the case
in which the contempt is charged to have been committed.
I think, therefore, that this court has jurisdiction and ought
to inquire and determine the alleged rights of the plaintiff in
error. As, however, the court decides that it does not have
jurisdiction, and has dismissed the writ of error, it would
not be fit for me to express any opinion on the merits of the
case.

CHANLER v. KELSEY, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATE'S

COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW

YORK AND STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 240.

Argued March 14, 1907.-Decided April 15, 1907.

Notwithstanding the common law rule that estates created by the execution
of a power take effect as if created by the original deed, for some purposes
the execution of the power is considered the source of title.
This court must follow the decision of the state court in determining that
the essential thing to transfer an estate is the exercise of a power of appointment..
The imposition of a transfer or inheritance tax under ch. 284, Laws of
New York, 1897, on the exercise of a power of appointment in the same
manner as though the estate passing thereby belonged absolutely to the
person exercising the power, does not, although the power was created
prior to the act, deprive the person taking by appointment, and who
would not otherwise have taken the estate, of his property without due
process of law in violation, of the Fourteenth Amendment; nor does it
violate the obligation of any contract within the protection of the impairment clause of the Federal Constitution.
176 N. Y. 486, sustained.
THIS is a writ of error to the Surrogate's Court of the county
of New York, State of New York, but its real purpose is to

CHANLER v. KELSEY.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

review a decision of the Court of Appeals of the State sustaining an order of the Surrogate's Court,. which imposed a transfertax upon certain estates arising under appointment by Laura
Astor Delano, deceased. 176 N. Y. 486.
Laura Astor Delano was the daughter of William B. Astor.
Upon the occasion of her marriage in 1844 to Frank H. Delano,
Mr. Astor executed a deed in the nature of a marriage settlement, conveying certain real and personal property to trustees
in trust to pay the income to said Laura Delano for life, with
remainder to her issue i. fee, or in default of issue, to her heirs
in fee; and giving ler power in her discretion to appoint the
remainder "amongst her said issue or heirs, in such manner
and proportions as she may appoint by instrument in its nature testamentary, to be acknowledged by her as a deed and
in the presence of two witnesses or published by her as a
will."
In the years '1848, 1849 and 1865 William B. Astor made
other deeds, by way of addition to the original marriage settlement, substantially similar in their terms. That of 1848 conveyed certain real estate to Mrs. Delano for life, with power
of appointment as to said premises, or any part thereof, "to
an(1 among her said issue, brothers, sister Alida, or their issue,
in such manner and proportions as she may appoint by instrument iii its nature testamentary, to be acknowledged by
her as a deed in the presence of two witnesses or acknowledged
by her as a will." The deed of 1849 conveyed to trustee
certificates for $50,000 of the public debt of Ohio; "to hold
the same in trust for the benefit of Laura Astor Delano during
her life, and at her death to transfer and convey the capital
of the said stock to her issue, but in case she left no issue, then
,to her surviving brothers and sister Alida and to the issue of
any of them who dio'l leaving issue; and said instrument contained a power of appointment to Laura Astor Delano as follows: 'Provided, however, that it shall be lawful for the said
Laura, by any instrument executed duly as a will of personal
estate, to dispose of the said capital unto and amongst her

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

issue, brothers, sister and their issue, in such shares and proportions as she may think fit and upon such limitations, by way

of trust or otherwise, as in her discretion may be lawfully
devised.' " These deeds were- absolutely irrevocable, took
effect upon delivery, and 'Were not made in contemplation of
the death of the grantor.
Laura A. Delano died June 15, 1902, in Geneva, Switzerland,
leaving no descendants. By her last will and testament, duly
admitted to probate in the county of New York on October 14,
1902, she exercised the power of appointment conferred in the
deeds from her father in favor of the plaintiffs in error.
One of the plaintiffs in error, Arthur Astor Carey, a grandson of William B. Astor, and an appointee to whom Mrs.
Delano had appointed the property originally conveyed by the
deeds of 1848 and 1849, took an appeal f'om the order of the
Surrogate's Court refusing to dismiss the petition to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, vhere it Wvas held that
the act under which the tax was imposed, as applied to this
case, was unconstitutional. Matter of Delano,, 82 App. Div.
147. The state comptroller appealed to the Court of Appeals
from the decision of the Appellate Division.
That court sustained the rightto impose the transfer tax
upon the interests appointed by Mrs. Delano under the powers
created by the deeds above referred to. Subsequent decisions
were made pro jorma and a final order on the last remittitur
of the Court of Appeals was: made in the Surrogate's Court, and
the case brought here by all the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Lucius H. Beers for plaintiff in error:
The power of the State to take property by heans of a
succession tax arises only when the succession is caused by the
death of the former owner of the property taken.
Death is the generating source from which the particular
taxing power takes its being. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41, 56; Cohen v. Brewster, 203 I. S.543, 550; Mager v. Grina,
S How. 4)0, 49:3: Inted Stote.s v. Perkin,, 163 IT. S. 625;

CHANLER v. KELSEY.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, 124; Matter of Swift, 137
N. Y. 77, 83; Matter of Sherman, 153 N. Y. 1, 3-5; 'Matter
of Lansing, 182 N. Y. 238, 248; Minot v. Winthrop, 162 Massachusetts, 113; Re Wilmerding, 117 'California, 281; State v.
Dalrymple, 70 Maryland, 294; State v. Henderson, 160 Missouri,
190; State v. Alston, 94 Tennessee, 674; Kochersperger v. Drake,
167 Illinois, 122; Strode v. Commonwealth; 52 Pa. St. 181.
The validity of a succession tax depends, not on the general
taxing power of the State, but on the existence of a power in
the State to regulate the particular succession sought to be
"taxed.'
In a series of decisions this court and the New York Court
of Appeals have held that this is not a tax on property or a
tax on persons. United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, 629.
The powers under which this property was appointed to the
plaintiffs in error were created by deed inter vivos and that
fact distinguishes this case from the case of Orr v. Gilman, 183
U. S. 278, where the power was created by will. See also
Cahen V. Brewster, 203,U. S., 543, 551, where the precise distinction here contended for is pointed out.
The amendment .of 1897 was not an exercise of the State's
general power to tax, but was intended to impose a succession
tax.
It is not necessary for the court to consider here, whether
the statute would be constitutional if it were regarded as an
exercise of the general taxing power of the State, for -the New
York Court of Appeals has in this case held that the statute
in question "does not attempt to impose a tax upon property,
but upon the exercise of the power of appointment." See
Matter of Pell, 171 .N. Y. 48.
There has been no succession to the remainders originally
transferred by the deeds of 1844, 1848 and 1849 which would
permit the imposition of a succession tax.
There can be powers which make the property involved
practically the property of the donee, but those must give the
donee the unlimited power of appointment. Such powers the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in 1rror.

205 U. S.

law treats as tantamount to ownership, at least so far as the
rights of creditors are concerned. Here the powers are in trust
and were limited to be exercised only in favor of certain descendants of the creator of the power. For these distinctions
see Matter of Lansing, 182 N. Y. 238.
The instrument by which Mrs. Delano exercised these powers
of appointment created by deed was not a "will" in so far
as it exercised those powers.
The imposition of a tax under the amendment of 1897 will
deprive the plaintiffs in error'of property without due process
of law.
The legislature has based this exaction on an hypothesis as
to the facts, which it deliberately recognizes to be a false
hypothesis.
In this case there has been no succession, and there can be
no succession tax here unless it is within the power of the
legislature to avoid constitutional limitations by "deeming"
the facts to be what they are not.
'States have repeatedly attempted to treat an appointment
as a succession for the purpose of collecting a succession tax,
but such attempts have uniformly failed for the reason that an
appointment is not legally a succession because the appointed
property does not belong to the donee of the power. Emmons
v. Shaw, 171 Massachusetts, 410; Commonwealth v. Duffield, 12
Pa. St. 277; Commonwealth v. Williams, 13 Pa. St. 29; Matter
of Stewart, 131 N. Y. 274, 281; Matter of Harbeck, 161 N. Y.
211.
The amendment of 1897 in imposing a succession tax on the
property of the plaintiffs in error impaire(d the obligation of a
contract.
Each of the remaindermen named in the original deeds
took a vested remainder subject to being divested only by
the exercise of the power in -favor of some other member of
the class. Root v. Stvyes'ant, IS Wend. 257, 267.
A transfer tax cannot constitutionally be imposed on a
remaind(er which vested before the'tax was .(,ate. .Motter

CHANLER v. KELSEY.
20.5 U. S.

Argument for f)efendant in Error.

of Pell, 171 N. Y. 48, 55; Matter of Lansing, 182 N. Y. 238,'
247, 248.
The clause of the United States Constitution providing that
no State shall pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts
applies to grants and other executed contracts, as well as to
executory contracts. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 136.
Mr. David B. Hill for defendant in error:
The instrument by which Mrs. Delano exercised the powers
of appointment was a "will."
Rev. Stat., Part 2, chap. I,
title II, Art. III, § 110, or 1 Rev. Stats. 735, § 110.
At the time of the making of the deeds herein, Ladra Astor
Delano had the right given by § 110 above, to make a will for
the purpose of exercising the power given by said deeds.
William B. Astor is presumed to have made thesb deeds
with ktowledge of this provision of law.
The decision of the Court of Appeals of the State of New
York that the statute, chapter 284 of the laws of 1897, subdivision 5 of § 220 of the Tax Law, does not violate any provision of the constitution of the State of New York will be
regarded as conclusive upon this court upon that .question.
Orr v. Gilman, 183 N. Y. 278; People ex rel. Met. St. Ry. Co.
v. N. Y. State Board of Tax Com'rs, 199 U. S. 1; Seneca Nation
v. Christie,'162 U. S. 283; Missouri R. R. Co. v. Haber, 169
U. S.613; Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S.447; Hibben v. Smith,
191 U. S.310.
The legislature of the State of New York had the right to
enact chapter 284 of the laws of 1897 (now subdivision 5 of
§ 220 of the Tax Law), and the same is not a violation of any
of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
The legislature by this act does not impose a tax upon
property, but it does impose a tax upon the exercise of a power
of appointment.
It can make no difference when the right was given to the
exercise of the power, or how it was created. No tax is made
upon the giving of the power, but only upon the exercise by

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205.11. S.

the donee of the power of appointment. It does not impair
the obligation of any contract between William B. Astor and
the plaintiffs in error, made prior to the passage and enactment of the statute, nor does it deprive the plaintiffs in error
of their property without due process of law, or deny to them
the equal protection of the laws. People ex rel. Eisrnan-v.
Ronner, 185 N. Y. 293; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625;
McMillan v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37.
. The right to take property by devise or descent is the creature of the law, and not a natural right-a privilege, and therefore the authority which confers it may impose zonditions upon
it. Magoun v. Ill* Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 288;
United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625; In re Cullom, 145 N. Y.
593; Wallace v. Myers, 38 Fed. Rep. 184; Matter of Hoffman,
143 N. Y. 327.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The tax in controversy was imposed under an amendment
of the general transfer-tax law of the State of New York,
chapter 284, Laws of 1897, which provide.s as follows:.
"Whenever any person or corporition shall exercise the
power of appointment derived from any disposition of property
made either before or after the passage of this act, such appointment when made shall be deemed, a transfer, taxable
under the provisions of this act, in the same manner as though
the property to which such appointment relates belonged
absolutely to the donee of such power and had been-bequeathed
or devised by such donee by will; andfwlenever any person or
corporation possessing such a power of appointment so derived shall omit or fail to exercise the same within the time
provided therefor, in whole or in part, a transfer taxable under
the provisions of this act shall be deemed to take place to the
extent of such omissions or failure,. in the same manner as
though the persons or corporations thereby becoming entitled

CHANLER v. KELSEY.
205 U. S.

Opinion bf the Court.

to the possession or enjoyment of the property to which such
power related had succeeded thereto by a will of the donee
of the power failing to exercise such power, taking effect at
the time of such omission or failure."
The validity of this tax was attacked in the courts of New
York upon objections pertaining to both the Federal and state
constitutions. The latter are not open here, and we shall
consider the case only so far as it relates to the objections made
to the validity of this statute by reason of alleged violations
of the Federal Constitution. These are: First, that by the
imposition of the tax the property of the beneficiaries is taken
without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and, second, that such taxation violates the
obligation of a contract within the protection of section 10
of Article I of the Federal Constitution.
The objection that the property is taken without due process
of law is based upon the argument that the estate in remainder
was derived from the deeds of William B. Astor and not under
the power of appointment received from those deeds by Mrs.
Laura A. Delano. In support of this contention, common law
authorities are cited to the proposition that an estate created
by the execution of a power takes effect in the same manner as
if it had been created by the deed which raised the power; that
the beneficiary takes, not under the execution of the power
by the donee, but by authority and under grant from the
grantor, in like manner as if the power 'and the instrument
, which created it had been incorporated into one instrument.
4 Kent's Com. 327; 2 Washburn, Real Property, 320. The
argument is that the estate which arose by the exercise of the
power came from William B. Astor and not from Laura A.
Delano, and was vested long before the passage of the amendmient of 1897, under the authority of which the tax was imposed, and to tax the exercise of the power therefore takes
property without due process of law.
However technically correct it may be to say that the estate
came from th, donor and not from the don e of th, power, it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

self-evident that it was only upon the exercise of the power
that the estate in the plaintiffs in error became complete.
Without the exercise of the power of appointment the estates
in remainder would have gone to all in the class named in the
deeds of William B. Astor. By the exercise of this power some
were divested of their estates and the same were vested in
others. It may be that the donee had no interest in the estate
as owner, but it took her act of appointment to finally transfer
the estate to some of the class and take it from others.
Notwithstanding the common law rule that estates created
by the execution of a power take effect as if created by the
original deed, for some purposes the execution of the power is
considered the source of title. It is so within the purpose of
the registration acts. A person deriving title under an appointment is considered as claiming under the donee within
the meaning of a covenant for quiet enjoyment. 2 Sugden on
Powers, 3d ed., 19.
"So on an issue to try whether the plaintiff was entitled by
two writings, or any other, purporting a will of J. S., and the
evidence was of a feoffment to the use of such person as J. S.
should appoint by his will, in which case it was contended
that the devisees were in by the feoffment and not by the will,
the court held that this was only fictione juris, for that they
were not in without the will, and therefore that was the principal
part of the title, and such proof was good enough and pursuant
to the issue, and a verdict was accordingly given for the plaintiff." 2 Sugden on Powers, 19, citing Bartlett v. Ramsdern, 1
Keb. 570.
So, in the present case, the plaintiffs in error are not in
without the exercise of the power by the will of Mrs. Delano.
By statute in England, for the purposes of taxation, it has
been provided that the donee of the power shall be regarded,
in case of a general power, as the one from whom the-estate
came. In Attorney General v. Upton et al., L., R. 1 Ex. 224,
the Court of Exchequer had under consideration the Succession Duty Act (16, 17 Vict. c. 51), and it was held that the

CHANLER v. RELSEY.
205 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

appointee under a general power of appointment, taking effect
on the death happening since the commencement of the act,
takes succession from the donee of the power. The testator,
Admiral Fanshawe, by will devised certain lands to the use
of his wife, Caroline Fanshawe, for life, remainder to such use
as she should by deed or will appoint, and, in default of appointment, for the use and benefit of testator's nephews, C. F.
and J. F. Fanshawe, and their issue. She by deed appointed
to the use that trustees should after her death receive an annuity during the lives of the wife of the testator's nephew, and
of the children of the nephew by her, in trust for the separate
use of the wife, Elizabeth Fanshawe. Section 4 of the act,
which is there construed, provides that any person having a
general power of appointment, under any disposition of property, taking effect upon' the death of any person dying after
th6 time appointed for the commencement of the act, shall, in
the event of his making any appointment thereunder, be deemed
to be entitled at the time of his exercising such power to the
property or interest thereby appointed as a succession derived
from the donor of the power. All the judges agreed that under
section 4 of the act the nephew's wife took the annuity as a
succession from the testator's widow and not from the testator
himself; that, therefore, a duty of ten per cent was payable.
Bramwell, B., was of opinion that the duty was also payable
under section 2, which provides that "every past or future
disposition of property, by reason whereof any person has or
shall become beneficially entitled to any property
shall be deemed to have conferred, or to confer, on the person
entitled by reason of any such disposition . . . a succession." In speaking of this section the Baron said:
"Now, will these annuitants take by reason of the will of
Admiral Fanshawe? We must look, not at the causa remota,
but at the causa proxima, and that is the disposition of Caroline
Fanshawe. Again, the act says, that the term predecessor
'shall denote the settlor, disponer, testator, obligor, ancestor,
or other person from whom the interest of the successor is or

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

shall be derived.' From whom, then, is the interest derived?
As I said in Barker's case (1), these are ordinary English words,
and ought to be construed by lawyers as ordinary Englishmen
would construe them. Now, not one man in a hundred would
say that this interest was derived from Admiral Fanshawe or
from any other person than the donee of the power. I do not
mean to deny or attempt to cast any doubt on the rule of law
that an appointee takes his estate from the donor of the power,
but I say that it is a rule not applicable to the construction
of this statute, and it is not true, as is supposed, that there is
any decision of the House of Lords to the contrary."
The learned Baron seems to have gone farther, as, to section 2,
than his brethren were willing to. Attorney General v. Mitchef/, L. R. 6 Q. B. I). 548. His observations are nevertheless
suggestive..
While the entire bench recognized the common law rule that
the estate is taken to come from the donor of the power, it
enforced the statutory change as to a subsequent exercise of
the power, treating the estate as coming from the donee, by
whose act it was appointed to the beneficiary.
The statute of New York in question acts equally
upon all
persons similarly situated. It affects an estate which only
became complete by the exercise of a power subsequent to its
enactment.
'The exercise of the power bestowing property in the present
case was made by will. And we need not consider the case,
expressly reserved by the Court of Appeals in its opinion, as
to the result if it had been exercised by deed.
That the will was effectual to transfer the estate was ruled
by the Court of Appeals, and its decision on this question is
binding here, as was held in Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278,
which came here for a review of a decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals of New York, rendered in Matter of Dows, 167 N. Y.
227, a case which arose under the same statute of 1897. In
that case the testator devised real estate in trust to pay the
income to his son for life, and, upon his death, to vest abso-

CHANLER
205 U. S.

. KELSEY.

Opinion of the Court.

lutely and at once in his children and the issue of his deceased
children, as his son should appoint by will. If, however, the
son should die intestate the estate was to vest absolutely and
at once in his children then living, and the issue of the deceased
children. The son exercised the power of appointment by his
last will, probated in 1899. The Court of Appeals held that the
property was subject to the taxation imposed by the act of
1897; that such 'tax was on the right of succession and not on
the property. "It became important in that case to determine
whether the property passed by virtue of the will of the donor,
David Dows, Senior, and then became vested in the grandchildren, or only became vested in them when the power of
appointment was exercised by the will of' David Dows,'Junior.
This court held that the answer to this question must, of
course, be furnished by the Court of Appeals in that case. 183
U. S.282. In other words, the Court of Appeals of New York
had the exclusive right to construe instruments of title in that
State, and determine for itself the creation and vesting of estates through wills under the laws of the State. "The Court
of Appeals held that it was the execution of the power of appointment which subjected grantees under it to the transfer
tax. This conclusion is binding upon this court in so far as'
it involves a construction of the will and of the statutes."
183 U. S. 288. In the present case the New York Court of
Appeals has spoken in no uncettain language upon. the subject:
"As the tax is imposed upon the exercise of the power, it is
unimportant how the power was created. The existence of
the power is the important fact, for what may be done under
it is not affected by its origin. If created by deed its efficiency
is the same as if it had been created in the same form by will.
No more and no less could be-done by virtue of it in 'the one
case than in the other. Its effective agency to produce the
result intended is neither strengthened nor weakened by the
nature of thiT instrument used by the donor of the power to
create it.' The power, however or whenever created, authorized the donee by her will to divest certain defeasible estates

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

and to vest them absolutely in one person. If this authority
had been conferred by will, instead of by deed, the right to act
would have been precisely the same, and the power would have
neither gained nor lost in force.

.

.

. 176 N. Y. 493.

"As we said through Judge Cullen in the Dows case: 'Whatever be the technical source of title of 'the grantee under a
power of appointment, it cannot be denied that in reality and
substance it is the execution of the power that gives to the
grantee the property passing under it.' This accords with the
statutory definition of a power as applied to real estate, for it
includes an authority to create or revoke an estate therein.
(Real Property Law, § 111.) Such was the effect of the exercise of the power under consideration, for it both revoked and
created estates in the real property and the interests in the
personal property. No tax is laid on the power, or on the
property, or en the original disposition by deed, but simply
upon the exercise of the power by will, as an effective transfer
for the purposes of the act." 176 N. Y. 494.
As in Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. supra, we must accept this
decision of the New York Court of Appeals holding that it is
the exercise of the power which is the essential thing to transfer the estates upon which the tax is imposed. That power
was exercised under the will of Laura Delano, a right which
was conferred upon her under the laws of the State of New
York and for the exercise of which the statute was competent
to impose the tax in the exercise of the sovereign power of the
legislature over the right to make a disposition of property by
will. United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S.625, 628; Magoun v.
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.283, 288.
We cannot say that property has been taken without due
process of law, within the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment, by the manner in which the Court of Appeals has construed and enforced this statute. Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S.
supra.
Nor do we perceive that the effect has been to violate any
contract right of the parties. It is said that this is so, because

CHANLER v. KELSEY.
205 U. S.

HOLMES and MOODY, JJ., dissenting.

instead of disposing of the entire estate, ninety-five per cent
of the property included in the power has been transferred
and five per cent taken by the State; but as there was a valid
exercise of the taxing power of the State, we think the iiuposition of such a tax violated no contract because it resulted
in the reduction of the estate.
Certainly the remaindermen had no contract with the donor
or with the State. For whether the remaindermen received
aliquot parts of the entire estate or the same was divested in
whole or in part for the benefit of others in the class, depended
upon the exercise of the power by the donee. The State was
not deprived of its sovereign right to exercise the taxing power
upon the making of a will in the future by which the estate
was given to the appointees.
We find no error in the judgment of the Surrogate's Court
entered on the remittitur from the Court of Appeals, and the
same is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

with whom was MR. JUSTICE MOODY,

dissenting.
I have the misfortune to differ from the majority of my
brethren in this case, and although the argument which seemed
and still seems to me unanswerable was presented and has not
prevailed, I think that the principles involved are of sufficient
importance to justify a statement of the reasons for my disgent.
A state succession tax stands on different grounds from a
similar tax by the United States or a general state tax upon
transfers. It is more unlimited in its possible extent, if not
altogether unlimited, and therefore it is necessary that the
boundaries of the power to levy such taxes should be accurately understood and defined.
I always have believed that a state inheritance tax was an
exercise of the power of regulating the devolution of property
by inheritanco or will upon the death of the bwner,-a power

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
HOLMES and Moony, JJ., dissenting.

205 U. S.

which belongs to the States; and I have been fortified in my
belief by the utterances of this court from the time of Chief
Justice Taney to the present day. Mager v. Grima, 8 How.
490, 493; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, 627, 628;
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 288;
Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, 124, 126, 137; Billings v.
Illinois, 188 U. S. 97, 104; Campbell v. California, 200 U. S.
87, 94; Cahen v. Brewster, 203 U. S. 543, 550. See also Matter
of Sherman, 153 N. Y. 1, 4. For that reason the power is more
unlimited than the power of a State to tax transfers generally,
or the power of the United States to levy an inheritance tax.
The distinction between state and United States inheritance
taxes was recognized in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 58,
and whatever may be thought of the decision in Snyder v.
Bettman, 190 U. S. 249, I do not understand it to import a
denial of the distinction, reaffirmed by the dissenting members
of the court. 190 U. S. 256.
If then a given state tax must be held to be a succession tax
in order to maintain its validity, or if in fact it is held to be a
succession tax by the state court of which it is the province
to decide that matter, it follows that such a tax cannot be
levied except where there is a succession, and when some
element or step necessary to complete it still is wanting when
the tax law goes into effect. If some elepient is wanting at that
time, the succession depends, for taking effect, on the continuance pf the permissioi to succeed or grant of the right on the
part of the State; and, as the grant may .be withdrawn, it may
be qualified by a tax. But if there is no succession, or if the
succession has fully vested, or has passed beyond dependence
upon the continuing of the State's permission or grant, an
attempt to levy a tax under the power to regulate succession
would be an attempt to appropriate property in a way which
the Fourteenth Amendment has been construed to forbid,
No matter what other taxes might be levied, a succession tax
could not be,. and so it has been decided in New York. Matter
of Pell, 171 N. Y. 48, 55; Matter of Seaman, 147 N. Y. 69.

CHANLER v. KELSEY.
205 U. S.

HOLMES and MOODY, JJ., dissenting.

It is not denied that the tax under consideration is a succession tax. The Court of Appeals treated it as such in the
present case. It said:"If the power had been exercised by
deed a different question would have arisen, but it was exercised by will and owing to the full and complete control by
the legislature of the making, the fori and the substance of
wills, it can impose a charge or tax for doing anything by will."
Matter of Delano, 176 N. Y. 486, 494, reversing S. C., 82 App.
Div. 147. That it was such a tax and valid for that reason
was decided in Matter of Dows, 167 N. Y. 227, affirmed by this
court. Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278, adopting the New York
view. 183 U. S. 289. And these decisions and some of the other
decisions of this court cited above were relied upon by the
Court of Appeals. 176 N. Y. 492. See further Matter of
Vanderbilt, 50 App. Div. 246; aff'd 163 N. Y. 597; Matter of
Lansing, 182 N. Y. 238, 248. Probably the tax would be invalid for other local reasons besides those mentioned in Matter
of Dows, but for the construction which it has received. Matter
of Pell, 171 N. Y. 48, 60.
This being then a succession tax, I should have thought it
plain that there was no succession for it to operate upon.
More precisely, even if otherwise any element of succession
could have been found, a matter that I think wbuld need
explanation, the execution of the power did not depend in
any way upon the continued co6peration of the laws of New
York by way of permission or grant. I am not concerned to
criticise the statement of the Court of Appeals that in substance it is the execution of the power that gives to the grantee
the property passing under it. It is-enough if it is remembered thiat the instrument executing the power derives none of
its efficiency in that respect from the present laws of New York.
It is true that the instrument happens to be a will, and that it
could not have operated as a will except by the grant of the
privilege from the State at the time when Mrs. Delano died.
But what would execute the power depended, in the first
place, upon the deed creating it, and if that deed did not
VOL. coy-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
HOLMES and MQODY, JJ., dissenting.

205 U. S.

require a will but only an instrument otherwise sufficiently
characterized, it did not matter whether the instrument was
also good as a will or not. Ela v. Edwards, 16 Gray, 91, 100.
What the deeds which I am considering required was "an
instrument in its nature testamentary to be acknowledged by
her (Mrs. Delano) as a deed in the presence of two witnesses or
published by her as a will." The language was chosen carefully, I presume, in view of the incapacities of married women
at that time. By the terms used a will was unnecessary. It
was enough if Mrs. Delano sealed and acknowledged an instrument in its nature testamentary in the presence of two witnesses, whether it was good as a will or not. Strong v. Wilkins,
1 Barb. Ch. 9, 13; Heath v. Withington, 6 Cush. 497. This she
did. In Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278, the power was created
by will, and, what is more obviously material, it required a will
for its execution, and so might be held to invoke and submit
itself to the law in force when the execution should take place.
Therefore that case has no bearing upon this. The ground
upon which this tax is imposed is, I repeat, the right of the
State to regulate or, if it sees fit, to destroy inheritances. If
it might not have appropriated the whole it cannot appropriate
any part by the law before us. And I also repeat that it has
no bearing upon the matter that by a different law the State
might have derived an equal revenue from these donees in the
form of a tax. I do. not understand it to be suggested that the
State without compensation could have appropriated the remainderafter Mrs. Delano's life, which Mr. Astor parted with
in 1844 and shortly following years. If it could not have done
so I am unable to see on what ground this tax is not void. The
English decisions throw no light upon the question before us
because they are concerned only with the construction of
statutes which, however construed, are law.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

concurs in this dissent.

