BEHN v. CAMPBELL.
Statement; of the Case.

205 U. S.

out of the business to be assessed. We think the State had
the power to do this, and that the foreigner doing business
cannot escape taxation upon his capital by removing temporarily from the State evidences of credits in the form of
notes. Under such circumstances, they have a taxable situs
in the State of their origin.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Affirmed.

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. CAMPBELL & GO TAUCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 227.

Argued March 7, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

In the absence of modification by statute the rule in respect to all courts
whose records are brought for review to this court is that ,errors alleged
to have been committed in an action at law can be reviewed here only by
writ of error; but this court has always observed the rule recognized by
legislation that while an appeal brings up questions of fact a6 well as of
law, on writ of error only questions of law apparent on the record can be
considered, and there can be no inquiry whether there was error in dealing
with questions of fact.
In reviewing judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
the same rule applies as does irn reviewing judgments of the Circuit Court
of the United States that alleged errors of law not stated in the assignment
of errors filed with the petition for the writ of error will be disregarded
unless they are so plain that under the provision in the thirty-fifth rule
to that effect the court may at its option notice them, but this court will
not subject the opinion of the court below to minute scrutiny to discover
error of law when on the whole it is clear, as in this case, that the facts
found by that court justify the judgment under review.
THE defendants in error, hereinafter called the plaintiffs,
brought an action in the Court of First Instance of the city of
Manila in the Philippine .Islands, to recover from the plaintiff
in error, hereinafter called the defendant, the sum of 9,250.62
pesos, alleged to be due on account of labor and materials
furnished under a building contract and its modifications.
The defendant among other defenses set up first, that the labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

was performed in a negligent and unworkmanlike manner,
which.caused the defendant great damages; and, second, that
the plaintiffs contracted in writing with the defendant to fill
a certain lot of land with earth and sand at a given rate per
cubic meter, and had been paid upon their representation of
the amount of earth and sand used in the filling $81,497.65,
Mexican currency; that the amount of sand and earth used
was much less than that represented, and that the plaintiffs
had been overpaid $41,197.63, Mexican currency. The defendant sought to recover this overpayment by way of counter
claim.' A trial before the judge of the Court of First Instance
resulted in a finding that the defendant had been damaged
through the negligent and unWorkmanlike manner of furnishing
the labor under the building contract and its modifications,
to an amount equal to the sum remaining due under the terms
of that contract, and that there had been an overpayment on
the filling contract, as alleged by the defendant. Accordingly
judgment was rendered dismissing the plaintiffs' complaint
and that the defendant. recover from the plaintiffs $52,000,
Mexican currency. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Islands. That court found as a fact substantially
that the plaintiffs had fully complied with their contract and
were entitled to recover the amount they alleged to be due;
that the amount paid by the defendant to the plaintiff on
account of filling was determined by actual measurements
made at the time of the filling by defendant's representatives;
that there was no fraud or mistakd, and' that the defendant,
therefore, was not entitled, to recover anything on account of
overpayment on that account. The judgment of the Court of
First Instance was reversed, and judgment ordered for the
plaintiffs in the sum of $9,250.62, Mexicancurrency. Thereupoii the defendant appealed to this court. The appeal was
dismissed by this court for want of jurisdiction. The defendant
then sued out a writ of error, which was allowed by a justice
of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, and filed with
its petition the following assignment of errors:

BEHN v. CAMPBELL.
205 U. S.

Statement' of the Case.

The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
reversing the judgment of the Court of First Instance for the
city of Manila to the effect that the plaintiffs in error were
'entitled to the sum of $9,250.62, Mexican currency, as damages
sustained by reason of the faulty construction of the premises
in question.
"2. The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands •erred in
reversing the judgment of the Court of First Instance for the
city of Manila granting judgment in'favor of the plaintiff in
error in the sum of $52,000, Mexican currency, the amount
overpaid by the plaintiffs in error to the defendants in error
for the delivery of sand.
"3. The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
finding as matters of fact the following:
"(1.) That in the construction of the building the contract,
plans and specifications have been complied with, with the
exception of a variation to the advantage of the owner, which
is that the principal posts rest upon layers of stone, instead
of upon the ground as called for by the plan.
"(2.) That if there has been any variation from the original
plan, this was done largely, if not wholly, with the consent of
the owner, and, at all events, with that of his agent, the in-,
specting engineer, and that these changes have been improvements.
"(3.) That the house was constructed under a contract and
specifications -which did little more than to designate the size
of the building, the material to be employed, and, with the plan,
gave a drawing of the building, leaving the details necessary
almost completely to the direction of the inspecting architect
or engineer.
"(4.) That the owner entrusted the direction of the work
to an inspecting engineer selected by himself, with full authority
to represent him, and that the contractor has performed the
work solely in accordance with the direction of the said inspecting engineer.
"(5.) That although there is some evidence to indicate that
"1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Counsel for Parties.

205 U. S.

a part of the house has settled more than other parts, this is
due either to the ground itself or to a defect in plan, or to the
directions of the inspecting engineer, and cannot be attributed
to a failure on the part of the contractor to comply with the
conditions of the contract.
"(6.) If there are any cracks in the floor and in the joints
in the building, this is due to the .class of lumber which was
selected by the owner.
"(7.) That the plan of the work and the placing of the principal posts were approved by the city engineer and were in
conformity with the ordinances.
"(8.) That the owner took possession of the house in the
month of May, 1902, and has occupied it since that time as a
dwelling house.
"By the very fact of accepting the house and occupying it,
the defendants acknowledged that it was constructed substantially as required by the contract, plans, and specifications;
and this is the law even when the work is not done according
to the contract, but accepted.
"4. The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
not finding that the evidence in the case was not sufficient to
justify the court reversing the judgment of the Court of First
Instance.
"5. The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
reversing the judgment of the Court of First Instance for the
city of Manila, and in giving judgment against the plaintiff in
error in the sum of $9,250.62, Mexican currency.
"6. The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
not confirming the judgment of the Court of First Instance
of the city of Manila in giving judgment in favor of the plaintiff
in error in the sum of'$52,000, Mexican currency."
Mr. Henry E. Davis, with whom Mr. Charles C. Carlin was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton was
on the brief, for defendants in error.

BEHN v. CAMPBELL.
205 U. S.

MR.

Opinion of the Court.

JUSTICE MOODY,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant first appealed from the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, which had been rendered against it, and the appeal was dismissed. 200 U. S. 611.
The reason, so plain that it seemed not to require statement,
was that errors alleged to have been committed in an action
at law can be reviewed here only by writ of error. This in
the absence of modification by statute is the rule in respect
to all courts whose records are brought here for review. Walker
v. Dreville, 12 Wall. 440; United States v. Hailey, 118 U. S. 233;
Deland v. Platte County, 155 U. S.221; Comstock v. Eagleton,
196 U. S. 99.
The defendant, having failed in its appeal, has now brought
a writ of error and asks this court to review, the facts to the
same extent that they would be reviewed on appeal. But
this overlooks the vital distinction between appeals and writs
of error which has always been observed by this court, and
recognized in legislation. An appeal brings up questions of
fact as well as of law, but upon a writ of error only questions
of law apparent on the record can be considered, and there
can be no inquiry whether there was error in dealing with
questions of fact. Wiscart v. D'Auchy, 3 Dall. 321; Generes
v. Campbell, 11 Wall. 193; United States v. Dawson, 101 U. S.
569; England v. Gebhard, 112 U. S. 502; Martinton v. Fairbanks, 112 U. S.670; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.658 (where
the cases are reviewed by Mr. Justice Gray); Elliott v. Toeppner,
187 U. S. 327; § 1011, Rev. Stat.
The assignment of errors in the case at bar does not allege
any errors of law but deals exclusively with questions of fact.
There are six assignments. The first, second, fifth, and sixth
assignments severally allege that the Supreme Court erred in
rendering the judgment which it did and in reversing the judgment of the Court of First Instance. The third assignment
specifically recites that "the Supreme Coutt of the Philippine

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Islands erred' in finding as matters of fact the following;" then
come eight specifications of errors in such findings. It is,
however, argued by counsel that the fourth assignment of
error in effect alleges an error in law. That assignment is
as follows: "The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
erred in not finding that the evidence in the case was not sufficient to justify the court reversing the judgment of the Court
of First Instance."
The Philippine Code of Procedure (Public Laws of Philippine
Commission, Act 190, 1901) prescribes in chapter 22 the
practice of the Supreme Court in reviewing the judgments of
courts of first instance. It confines the review to questions of
law, with certain exceptions, one of which is as follows:
"If the excepting party filed a motion in the Court of First
Instance for a new trial, upon the ground that the findings of
fact were plainly and manifestly against the weight of evidence,
and the judge overrules said motion, and due exception was
taken to his overruling the same, the Supreme Court may
review the evidence and make such findings upon the facts
and render such final judgment as justice and equity require.
But, if the Supreme Court shall be of the opinion that the
exception is frivolous and not made in good faith, it may impose double or treble additional costs upon the excepting party,
and may order them to be paid by counsel prosecuting the bill
of exceptions, if in its opinion justice so requires." Sec. 497,
subdiv. 3.
Th3 Supreme Court, in the case at bar, acted upon the authority conferred by this subdivision. It is said that the
Supreme Court can review the evidence taken in the Court
of First Instance and thereby arrive at a different conclusion
of facts from that found by the trial court only in the case
that "the findings of fact were plainly and manifestly against
the weight of evidence." It is therefore urged that whether
the court erred in setting aside the conclusions of the lower
court as plainly and manifestly against the weight of evidence
is a question of law which may be brought here by writ of error.

BEHN v. CAMPBELL.
205 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

It was held in De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S.303, that
upon an appeal this court will consider whether a reversal
by the Supreme Court of the findings of the Court of First
Instance was justified on the ground that the findings below
were plainly and manifestly against the weight of evidence,
and upon being satisfied that the action of the Supreme Court
was not warranted on that ground would reverse it. But
this case was one of appeal, and the vital distinction between
an appeal and a writ of error has already been -shown. The
principle acted upon in that case is not applicable to writs of
error. The fourth assignment of error, therefore, raises no
cjuestion of law.
The case would stop here were it not for the fact that the,
defendant in its brief and in the oral argument in its behalf
goes beyond the assignment of errors and sets up three alleged.
errors of law not contained in them.
It is said that the court below erred:
"(1) In holding as a matter of law that the fact of taking
possession of said dwelling house was an acknowledgment'
by the plaintiffs in error that it was constructed substantially
as required by the said contract;
"(2) In holding as a matter of law that the plaintiffs in error
were.not entitled to recover their overpayments for earth and
sand because no mutual mistake was-shown in the premises;
"(3) In rendering judgment for a sum in Mexican currency
instead of in Philippine pesos."
It is provided in the act giving this court jurisdiction to
review the judgtnents of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands that they may be reviewed here "in the same manner,
under the same regulations, and by the same procedure, as
dar as applicable, as the final judgments and decrees of the
Circuit Court of the United States." In such cases alleged
errors not stated in the assignment of errors filed with the
petition for the writ, have sometimes been considered. The
limits of this practice is accurately stated in the thirty-fifth
rule of this court.. There it is said that if errors are not assigned

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

with the petition for the writ they will be disregarded, except
that the court in its option may notice a plain error not thus
assigned.
But we find no such plain error in the opinion of the Supreme
Court as warrants us in reversing its judgment. The findings
of fact made by that court support. and require the judgment
which it rendered. We do not think it necessary or desirable
to select from an opinion, which was engaged with a discussion
of evidence and the inferences which might properly be drawn
from it, statements of law and subject them to minute scrutiny,
where on the whole it is clear that the facts found by the court
justify the judgment which it rendered. Therefore we do not
consider any questions except those set forth in the assignments of errors, and, deeming that they allege no errors in law,
we affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 213.

Argued February 27, 28, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

Where a question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals contains more
than a single question or proposition of law it will not be answered by
this court.
Where the qualified voters of the county vote for an issue of bonds for subscription to stock of a.railroad on condition. that the county be exonerated
from a prior subscription authorized for another railroad, and thereafter
the judge of the county court authorized by statute to make the subscription enters an order to that effect, receives the stock subscribed for, and
issues the bonds, and nothing further is ever done in regard to the prior
subscription, although no formal exoneration thereof was over made or
attempted, a bona fide purchaser before maturity of the bonds and coupons
for value is entitled to assume in his purchase that the county had been
fully exonerated from the prior subscription.
PLAINTIFF

in error brought an action in the Circuit Court of

