OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

The attempted confirmation by Special Orders No. 97 must
fail of effect under section 7 for like reasons;
Other questions argued at the bar need not be discussed.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded, with a,direction to
enter judgment in favor of claimant for $125.

TRACY v. GINZBERG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 204. Argued February 26, 1007.-Decided March 18, 1907.

The decision of a state court involving nothing more than the ownership
of property, with all parties in interest before it, cannot be regarded by
the unsuccessful party as a deprivation of property, without due process
of law,*simply because its effect is to deny his claim to own such property.
The Fourteenth Amendment did not impair the authority of the States
to determine finally, according to their settled usages and established
-modes of procedure, such questions, when they do not involve any right

secured by the Federal Constitution or by any valid act of Congress, or
by any treaty.
189 Mass. 260, affirmed..

THIS suit was instituted in the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts by the plaintiff in error, a.citizen of New York,
against the defendant in error, a citizen of Massachusetts individually and as trustee to H. C. Long & Company, Composed
of H. C. Long and Frank-A. Sanderson.
The case p1ade by the bill of complaint is as follows: On the
twenty-third of December, 1902, the plaintiff sold to Long and
Sanderson the. personal property used in carrying on hotel
business at a certain place in Boston, and assigned to them. the
leiwe of the realty occupied by the hotel. "As partial payment
therefor he. took back a mortgage on'the perspal property for
the sumof .$7,500, running to the James Everard's Breweries,
.a corporation. of New York.. The mortgage covered not only

TRACY v. GINZBERG.
205 U. S.-

Statement of the Case.

a part of the purchase price, but also $3,000 in cash, which the
plaintiff paid for the liquor license, which, on or about the
above date, he procured to- be assigned to Long and Sanderson
and to himself, as joint owners, and also the sum of $1,400 1h
cash, which the plaintiff paid to the city of Boston as a fee for.
the liquor license issued by the bobard of police of that city to
Long and Sanderson and to the plaintiff. That license expired by limitation on May 1, 1903.
In -consideration of the advance, by plaintiff's procurement,
of the above sums of $3,000 and $1,400, Long 9nd Sanderson,
on the above date, by writing, assigned their right, title and
interest in said license to the plaintiff, covenanting and agreeing that all future applications forrenewals of -the license should
be in the names of Long and Sanderson and the plaintiff, and
that upon such renewal being granted they would assign,.
transfer and set over any such license.
Long and Sanderson being without money for the purpose,
the plaintiff paid $1,400 to the city as the renewal- fee, and
*thereupon a new first and fourth class license was issued by
the board of police to Long and Sanderson and the plaintiff
to sell intoxicating liquors in the said hotel building. This
license was taken by the plaintiff into his possession, and he
had it in lhis possession at the bringing of this suit.
On the payment of the license fee. for 1903-1904. Long and
Sanderson, by an instrument of writing dated April.24, 1903,'
assigned, transferred and set over to the.plaintiff their interest
in that license, and further agreed to assign and set over to
him their interest in any renewal bf the license so long as they
should be indebted to James Everard's Breweries. The plaintiff alleged that that assignment was for present and valuable
consideration, and that by reason thereof he-became the sole
owner of the license.,
Long and Sanderson were adjudged bankrupts on the
twenty-third of July, 1903, being at the time indebted, and
are still indebted, to James Everard's Breweries in a sum
exceeding $7,000..

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

The number of first and fourth class licenses in Boston is
limited by law and are substantially all issued each year, so
that a new license cannot be issued until an old license is
cancelled. Old licenses are of great value to persons who desire to engage in the liquor business in Boston. They sell from
$3,000 to $5,000 to persons who present them for cancellation
together with an application for a new license to themselves.
Because of the large surrender value of old licenses and of
the long-continued custom of reissuing licenses to old holders
until refused for cause, such licenses have been recognized by
courts of Massachusetts as property rights, and the powers of
the board of police in dealing with them have been limited
to the exercise of the sound discretion within the limits established by the laws of the Commonwealth.
The defendant Ginzberg, having full knowledge of the above
facts, procured the board of police, on or about the first of
April, 1904, to cancel the plaintiff's license. This was done
without notice to plaintiff or hearing on any charge of the
violation of the terms of the license. With the assistance of
the police board, prior to the cancellation of the license, Ginzberg sold the license for $3,000, which he refused to pay over
to the plaintiff. He also collected from the city the sum of
$200 as a rebate upon the plaintiff's license, and refused to account for any sum to the plaintiff whatever. In the matter
,complained of Ginzberg acted beyond his powers as trustee
of the bankrupt estate and without warrant of law disposed
of [to one O'Hearn] a valuable privilege belonging to the plaintiff, and has procured the destruction and cancellation of the
plaintiff's valuable rights.
The relief prayed was that the title of the plaintiff to the
first and fourth class liquor license issued to Long and Sanderson and himself be established; that Ginzberg be ordered
to account for the sums received by him as the proceeds of the
plaintiff's license and be required to pay the same over to
plaintiff; that the plaintiff's losses and damages by reason of
the acts of defendant be established, and that he be ordered

TRACY v.GINZBERG.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to pay the same; that execution issue against Ginzberg, individually, for such sums as may be found due to the plaintiff.
by reason of his wrongful interference with plaintiff's property; thalif upon hearing it should appear that defendant
acted within his duties as trustee of the bankrupt estate, thatthe decree run against him as such trustee but without execution thereon; and that the plaintiff have such other and further
,reief as may be just.
.
Such is the case made by the bill. After answer and replication the evidence was taken by a special commissioner, to be
reported to the full court. In 'its finding, of facts the 66ourt
said: "In the case at bar, the police commissioners were satisfied that the name of Tracy was inserted in the two licenses
to secure to his principal the debt, or part Of the debt, due
from the defendants Long & Sanderson; that he wa not a.
partner in the liquor business, and for. that reason the police
commissioners gave a preference to O'Hearn, who was nominated'by the trustee in bankruptcy, with [out] the 6onsent, or
against the objections, of Tracy, in deciding to whom a license
should be issued on the vacancy caused by Long & Sanderson
going out of business. The trustee received three thousand
dollars for the nomination by him, and I find that it is, in fact,
the value of such a nomination. It follws that the three
,thousand dollars received by the defendant was received for
something which he had, and not for anything which the plaintiff had, and the defendant is entitled to have the bill dismissed with costs." By the final decree the bill was dismissed
and the case carried before the full court, which affirmed the.
decree of the trial court.
The Supreme Judicial Court 9 f Massachusetts affirmed the
judgment, holding that to sell intoxicating liquor, was a personal privilege, valuable as property, in a certain sense, for
the personal use of the holder but not assignable or transferable
by him in any way; and that "the value of the release is recognized as depending wholly upon the practice of ,the police
commissioners, and because there is no legal right to assign

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

the privileges of such a license, and the police commissioners
refuse to be bound by assignments, or to recognize at all
assignments for security, the court holds that a holder of an
assignment for security has no rights under the assignment."
Further: "In the present case the release or assignment of the
.licenses by the bankrppts to one who wishes to obtain licenses
for the next year, induced him to pay the trustee in bankruptcy
three thousand dollars. The money so received was not for any
property owned by the plaintiff. It was for a position before
the police commissioners, from which the payor had reasonable
ground to expect their favorable action. The plaintiff could
not control this position, or do anything that would induce
the payment by O'Hearn of the money which the defendant
received. Upon the facts shown, the board of police commissioners did not consider the insertion of the plaintiff's name
in the original license as affecting their right to issue new
licenses. It is plain-that they were right as regards the licenses
for the ensuing year. Whether they were right or not in regard to the plaintiff's relation to the old licenses is immaterial,
for it is -plain that the money received by the defendant was
not paid on account of the plaintiff's interest, but on account
of what the defendant did in enabling O'Hearn to obtain the
new licenses." Tracy v. Ginzberg, 189 Massachusetts, 260.
Mr. H. J. Jaquith, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Barry was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The present use of the term "license," as' an act of goveminent, in many respects is synonymous with "franchise."
Kent defines a franchise as a privilege conferred by grant
.from government and
in individuals. 3.Kent Com.
458; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 213.
A license for a stated period and. for a valuable consideration cannot be revoked except for breach of conditions. Davis
v. Townsend, 10 Barb. 333, 343; Cook v. Stearns, 11 Massachusetts, 533, 537; Commonwealth v. Moylan, 119 Massachusetts,.
109. It is a franchise. State v. C., M. & St. PL Railway, 56 Wis-vested

TRACY v. GINZBERG.
205 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

consin, 256, 259; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 102 111nois, 560, 576; Hancock v. Singer Mfg. Co., 62 N. J. Law, 289,:
335; Logan v. Pyne, 43 Iowa, 524; Commonwealth v. Standard

Oil, 101 Pa. St. 119, 145; State v. Schlier, 59 Tennessee, 280,
286.
The power to mortgage is coextensive with the power to
alienate, and is an incident that cannot be divorced from
ownership. Commonwealth v. Smith, 10 Allen, 448.
The only limitation upon this power is that the holder of a
franchise or license for the benefit of the public cannot do
anything to disqualify him from performing his public duties.
Evans v. Boston Heating Co., 157 Massachusetts, 37.
A license is property. The word property is legally understood to include every class of acquisitions which a man can
own or have an interest in. In re Fixen, 102 Fed. Rep. 295,.
296; In re Emrich, 101 Fed. Rep. 231 (market license); In re
Gallagher, 16 Blatchf. 410; Fisher v. Cushman, 102 Fed. Rep.
860, 864, 865; In re Becker, 98 Fed. Rep. 407; In re Brodbine,
93 Fed. Rep. 643.
Other privileges are also regarded as property., In re Hurlbutt Hatch Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 504; Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S.
523, 525 (stock exchange); Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U. S. 1, 12;
In re Ketclium, 1 Fed. Rep. 840; In re Warder, 10 Fed. Rep. 275.
A privilege is intangible property, and is recognized and
protected as!property. Adams Ex. Co. v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185,
218, 219.

The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court does not seem to
have fully determined for itself in just what position before
the law the capital invested in licenses stands. Surely the
several millions of capital invested in licenses in Boston is
within the protection of the law. Tehan v. Court, 191' Massachusetts, 92.
. A trustee in bankruptcy is bound by all the agreements of
the bankrupt-as fully as the bankrupt, except as to frauds and
preferences and executory contracts; and in taking over property or property rights, he takes them subject to such. liefis,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

enciffibrances; or assignments as existed prior to the bankruptcy, provided they are not obnoxious as frauds or preferences. Mitchell v. Winslow, 2 Story, 630; S. C., Fed. Cas.
9,673; Ex parte Newhall, 2 Story, 360; S. C., Fed. Cas. 10,159;
Fletcher v. Morey, 2 Story, 555; S. C., Fed. Cas. 4,864; Windsor
v. Kendall, 3 Story, 507; S. C., Fed. Cas. 17,886; Windsor v.
McClellan, 2 Story, 492; S. C., Fed. Cas. 17,887; Ex parte
Dalby, 1 Lowell, 431; S. C., Fed. Cas. 3,540; .Potterv. Coggeshall, Fed. Cas. 11,322; Coggeshall v. Potter, Fed. Cas. 2,955;
Williamson v. Colcord, Fed. Cas. 17,752.
..These cases have been approved and followed by the United
States Supreme Court and by the courts of most of the States.
Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516, 526.
Upon these authorities the plaintiff was -entitled to the-aid.
of a court of equity to enforce his- rights against Long &
Company as fully as though they had not gone into bankruptcy.
Mr. Alfred W. Putnam, with whom Mr. William B. Sullivan
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
. A liquor license, of course, only purports to grant to 'the
holder the privilege of conducting for a limited period of time
what would otherwise be an unlawful business. The very
most that Tracy could have claimed as of right was that he
was permitted to engage in the liquor trade in the city of
Boston.
That privilege is the only "right" which he can fairly and
reasonably assert that he acquired as a direct licensee.
The permission to sell intoxicating liquor is not a right or a
privilege within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution. *Crowley v." Christensen, 137 U. S.
86; Giozza v. Tiernai, 148 U. S. 657; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18
Wall. 129.
A license is not a contract and confers no contractual rights
upon the holder. Calder v. Kurby, 5 Gray (Mass.), 597; Le
-Croix.v.*County-Commissioners, 50 Connecticut, 321; Board oj

TRACY v. GINZBERG.
205 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Excise v. Barrie,34 N. Y. 657; Sprayberry v. Atlanta, 87 Georgia,
120; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814-820.
The revocation of a license does not constitute taking of
property without due process of law.* Board of Excise v.
Barrie, 34 N. Y. 657; Sprayberry v. Atlanta, 87 Georgia, 120;
Schwuchow v. Chicago, 68 Illinois, 444.
The fund of $3,000 is rightfully held by the trustee in bankruptcy as assets of the bankrupt's estate. It does not lie in
the mouth of plaintiff in error to assert that this money is not
properly assets o -the estate, nor to accuse the defendant in
error of being an intermeddler if he fails to prove a better title
to the money.
Money realized from the nomination for a license is assets of
a bankrupt estate. In re Fisher,98 Fed. Rep. 89 (D. C. Mass.);
Fisher v. Cushman, 103 Fed. Rep. 860 (C. C. A.); In re Mc-.
Ardle, 126 Fed. Rep. 442.(D. C. Mass.).
MR.

JUSTICE

HARLAN, after making the 'foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff insists that the action of the police commissioners deprived him of property without due process of law.
The answer to this contention is that the expectation called a
right, or property was of the board's creation and therefore
subject to the limitations which the board imposed.
The plaintiff also insists that by the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts he has been deprived
of his property without the.due process of law guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. This proposition is without merit. Within the meaning of that amendment,,the court, by its judgment, did not
deprive the plaintiff of property without due process of law.
He sought a decree adjudging that he was entitled to the money
received by Ginzberg from O'Hearn. The court, proceeding
entirely upon principles of general and local law, and giving
all parties interested in the question an opportunity to be
VOL. ccv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

heard, decided that plaintiff had no right to that money.
The decision of a state court, involving nothing more than the
ownership of property, with all parties in interest before it,
cannot be regarded by the unsuccessful party as a deprivation
of property without due process of law, simply because its effect
is to deny his claim to own such property. If we were of opinion, upon this record, that the money received by Ginzberg
from O'Hearn really belonged to Tracy-upon which question
we express no opinion-still it could not be affirmed that the
latter had, within the meaning of the Constitution, and by
reason of the judgment below, been deprived of his property
without due process of law. Under the opposite view every
judgment of a state court, involving merely the ownership of
property, could be brought here for review-a reult not to be
thought of. The Fourteenth Amendment did not impair the
authority of the States, by their judicial tribunals, and according to their settled usages and established modes of procedure,
to determine finally, for the parties before it, controverted questions as to the ownership of property, which did not involve
any right secured by.the Federal Constitution, or by any valid
act of Congress, or by any treaty. Within the meaning of that
amendment, a deprivation of property without due process of
law oc.urs when it results from the arbitrary exercise of power,
inconsistent with "those settled usages and modes of proceeding existing in the common and statute law of England before
the emigration of our ancestors, and which are shown not to
-have been unsuited to their civil and political condition by
having been acted on by them after the-settlement of this
country." Bank of Columilia v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235, 244;
Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken: &c., 18 How. 272. It cannot be
said that the state court in this case, by its final judgment,
departed from those usages or modes of proceeding.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

