OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 Vr. S.

FIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 395. Argued March 12, 13, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.
While under § 6 of the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, 26 Stat. 828, a
certiorari can only be issued when a writ of error cannot be, it will
not be issued merely because the writ of error will not lie; but only where
the case is one of gravity, where there is confliat between decisions of
state and Federal courts, or between those of Federal courts of different
circuits, or something affecting the relations of this nation to foreign
nations, or of general interest to the public.
One who embezzles money from an estate forfeits his right to commissions,
irrespective of whether he is or is not convicted of any crime in respect
thereto, and his conviction does not involve the pecuniary amount of
the commissions which he forfeits by reason of the embezzlement; nor
does the fact that such commissions amount to over $5,000 give this
court jurisdiction under § 233 of the Code to. review the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia affirming the conviction. Therule that a writ of error does not lie from this court to
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a criminal case applies in such a case.
Writ of error to review 27 App. D. C. 433, dismissed.
THOMAS M. FIELDS was indicted in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia at the January term, 1905, for embezzlement. Of eight counts in. the indictment seven were
disposed of by demurrer or by verdict in favor of the defendant.
The trial, begun on May 8, and ending May 15, 1905, resulted
in a Verdict of guilty under the third count. Motions in arrest
of judgment and for a new trial having been overruled, he was
sentenced to imprisonment and labor in the penitentiary for
five years. The Court of Appeals of the District modified the
judgment of the Supreme Court by striking out the order for
"labor," and, as so modified, affirmed it. 27 App. D. C. 433.
The case was brought to this court on writ of error. A motion
to dismiss and a petition for certiorari were presented by the
respective parties, the consideration of both of which was
postponed to the hearing on the merits. The indictment was
found under section 841 of the District Code, which is as follows:

FIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"Any executor, administrator, guardian trustee, -receiver,
collector, or other officer into whose possession money, securities, or other property of the property or estate of any
other person may come by virtue of his office or employment,
who shall fraudulently convert or appropriate the same to
his own use, shall forfeit all right or claim to any commissions,
costs, and charges thereon, and shall be deemed guilty of embezzlement of the entire amount or value of the money or other
property so coming into his .possession and converted or
appropriated to his own use, and shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not
exceeding ten years, or both."
The statute under which the writ of error was sued out is
section 233 of the District Code, which reads:
"SEc. 233. Any final judgment or decree of the Court of
Appeals may be re-examined and affirmed, reversed, or modified by the Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of
error or appeal, in all cases in which the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars,
in the same manner and under the same regulations as existed
in cases of writs of error on judgments or appeals from decrees
rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on
February ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, and also
in cases, without regard to the sum or value of the matter in
dispute, wherein is involved the validity of any patent or
copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a
treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United States."
Mr. Frank J. Hogan and Mr. John C. Gittings, with whom
Mr. Henry E. Davis was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The forfeiture under § 841 is not merely of some right or
claim to some commissions, but 6f all right or claim to any of
them; nor is the forfeiture confined merely to commissions, but
it extends to costs and charges, and hence operates to leave
a fiduciary deeply in debt for proper costs and charges which

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

he has duly paid, even under express orders of the appointing
court, as in this case.
Under §841 such commissions are involved in this case,
and measure the value in money of the matter in dispute.
It can even be said that the commissions are themselves the
matter in dispute for the purpose of jurisdiction on this writ
of error, even though in one sense an incident to the prosecu-

tion for embezzlement.

Under Chapman v. United States,

164 U. S. 436, and Sinclair v: District of Columbia, 192 U. S.
16, if this statute and proceeding involve only the bare question of guilt or innocence of the elementalact as a crime,
this court has no jurisdiction on the writ of error, because in
such event the matter in dispute is incapable of pecuniary
estimation; but by the imperative terms of the statute itself,
.and the necessary effect of the judgment (if valid) the case at
bar presents as the matter in dispute, one that is not only
capable of pecuniary estimation, but has actually been so
estimated to the very penny; whereas, the Chapman case and
the Sinclair case were utterly devoid of this essential element.
While the mere guilt or innocence of the accused is ordinarily a matter that is incapable of pecuniary estimation,
yet the statute can make it otherwise. Under § 841 the
guilt and forfeiture are inseparable-the one cannot arise or
exist without the other. The forfeiture is purely pecuniary,
and can be said to make the guilt or innocence a. matter in
dispute that is capable of a money valuation, and, moreover,
fixes this value as the amount of the commissions, costs and
charges to which the accused is entitled.
In this case the matter in dispute is whetler the plaintiff
in error, as a chancery receiver, is subject to a prosecution
ending in a sentence depriving him of all right of claim to any
commissions, costs and charges as receiver, amounting to
$10,070.82; or such commissions themselves can-be considered
as the matter in dispute for the purpose of jurisdiction. It is
not the form, but the substance, of the proceeding that determines the matter 'in dispute. The statute controls abso-

FIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lutely the entire controversy. Property rights are often concluded in criminal cases, and criminal issues are often determined in civil cases as the basis of pecuniary claims.
There
is no hard and fast rule to prevent such proceedings and
results, especially when based upon statutes. Smith v. Adams,
130 U. S. 167; Stinson v. Dousman, 20 How. 461.
If these commissions be in one sense an incident to the
prosecution for embezzlement, still this court has jurisdiction.
Simms v. Simms, 175 U. S. 162; De La Rama v. De La Rama,
201 U. S. 303.
In the case at bar, though this court may have no jurisdiction of the embezzlement feature of the case .as such, yet
it has of the forfeiture feature, but it cannot determine the
latter without passing on the siifficiency of the evidence of
the former, because both points of the case rest upon exactly
the same evidence; and this, therefore, opens the whole record
and sets the matter at large.
M. James S. Easby-Smith, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The petition for a certiorari must be first considered.
A certiorari can be issued only when a writ of error cannot.
26 Stat. 828, sec. 6, last two paragraphs. There have been
two or three instances in which, after a writ of error has been
allowed, an application for a certiorari has been filed, the latter
because of doubt whether the former would lie. It must not
be supposed that because we have before us both a writ of
error and an application for certiorari that the rules laid down
by this court governing the latter applications are to be ignored, and the case held in this court by either the writ of error
or the certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

In this case there is no sufficient ground for a certiorari.
The application comes within none of the conditions therefor
declared in the decisions of this- court. However important
the case may be to the applicant, the question involved is not
one of gravity and general importance. There is no conflict
between the decisions of state and Federal courts or between
those of Federal courts of different circuits. There is nothing
affecting the relations of this nation to foreign nations, and
indeed no matter of general interest to the public.
Will a writ of error lie? Is the case one of which this court
has jurisdiction? It is settled that a criminal case, as such,
cannot be brought here on writ of error from the Court of
Appeals of the District, Chapman v. United States, 164 U. S.
436, and cases cited in the opinion; Sinclair v. District of
Columbia, 192 U. S. 16.
The authority of these cases is not questioned, but it is
contended that the forfeiture of all right or claim to any
commissions, etc., was determined by the judgment in the
case at bar, and that, therefore, it comes within the pecuniary
provisions of section 233. Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167,
is cited as authority. In that case we sustained our jurisdiction
over a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District, dismissing a petition for a writ of prohibition to a court martial
convened to try an officer for an offense punishable by dismissal
from the ,service and consequent deprivation of salary, which,
during the term of his office, would exceed the sum of $5,000.
But that case is very different from this. There the direct
result of an -adverse judgment of the court martial was the
deprivation of an office with a salary of over $5,000. That
sum, therefore, was involved in the trial sought to be restrained.
But no' such result follows in this case. The act of the defendant in fraudulently converting or appropriating the moneys
in his possession operates to forfeit all right or claim to any
commissions, etc., and this, irrespective of the question whether
he is or is not convicted of any crime in respect thereto. It is
tre such fraudulent conversion or appropriation is declared

FIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
205 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be embezzlement, and the defendant was prosecuted and
convicted of that offense, but the forfeiture of commissions
does not follow the judgment, but follows the wrongful conversion or appropriation of the moneys. The only direct
pecuniary result of a conviction is a fine not 6xceeding $1,000,
and that as a punishment for the offense. United States v.
More, 3 Cranch, 159, 174. It adjudges no forfeiture of commissions. It may be that it furnishes evidence in respect
to the forfeiture of commissions, but'if so it is simply evidence.
Nor does the criminal offense depend at all upon the amount
of the appropriation. If the official fraudulently converts
or appropriates $1,000, the crime is the same as though he
fraudulently converts or appropriates $50,000. All that can
be accomplished by the criminal prosecution is the statutory
punishment for the offense, which cannot exceed a fine of
$1,000, or imprisonment for ten years, or both. The conviction is conclusive as to the fact of a fraudulent conversion
and appropriation, but not as to the amount thereof, any more
than a conviction of larceny is a conclusive adjudication that
the larceny was committed at. a day named or of the precise
amount or value of the property charged to have been stolen.
Those are incidental and minor facts, which may or may not be
proved exactly as stated. All that is necessary to sustain
the judgment before us is that there was a fraudulent conversion or appropriation of some amount of money in the
possession of the official. For these reasons, the writ of error
cannot be sustained.
The application for a certiorari is denied and the writ of
error is
Dismissed.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

concurred -in-the judgment.

