TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

posed liability to subscribe to the stock of the Elizabethtown
and Tennessee Railroad shows conclusively that he was right.
Construing the second question to inquire not whether there
is conclusive presumption, but Whether on the facts found
there is any presumption at all that the county had been exonerated from its former subsciption to another railroad, we
answer it

Yes.

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS' OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 76. _ Aued November 1, 2, 1906.-Decided April 15, 1907.
While the predominant idea of the testator's mind when discovered is to
be heeded as against all doubtful and conflicting provisions which might
defeat it, effect must be given to all the words of a will if by the rules
of law it can be done; and the words "without leaving a wife or child
or children" will not be construed as "without leaving a wife and child
or children," notwithstanding a general dominant interest on the part'
of the testator that his real estate should descend only through his sons.
A man and woman', neither of whom was a resident of Virginia, and who
had not obtained any marriage license, went through a ceremony in
Virginia which the woman thought was a marriage by a clergyman; they
immediately went to New Jersey, she assuming the man's name; they afterwards went to Maryland and then returned to New Jersey permanently,
where they lived and cohabitated as husband and wife and were so regarded for many years until his death, she joining in a mortgage with
hin, and also being described in his wills-as his wife; she meanwhile
and, prior to the later residence in New Jersey, had ascertained that the
person performing the ceremony was not a minister and that there was
no license, but the cohabitation continued and there was testimony that
the man assured her that they were married, and afterwards in his last
will he appointed his wife executrix and she qualified assuch; Held, that:
'Marriage in fact, as distinguished from a ceremonial marriage, may be
proved by habit and repute, and, except in cases of adultery and bigamy
when actual proof is required, may be inferred from continued cohabits-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

205 U. S.

tion and reputation; and even though in view. of the statutory requirements in those States the marriage might have been invalid in Virginia
for want of license, and in Maryland for want'of religious ceremony, the
cohabitation in good faith and reputation during their residence in
New Jersey, and their conduct towards each other from the time of the
ceremony until the man's death., established an agreement between the
pa ties' per verba de prwsenti, to become husband and wife which was as
effective to establish that status in New Jersey as if made in words of
the present tense after the parties had become domiciled in that State.
25 App. D. C. 567, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Bernard Carter and Mr. Arthur A. Birney, with whom
Mr. Charles.H.Stanley, Mr. Edward A. Newman and Mr. Fillmore BeaU were on the brief, for appellants:
.The testator devised all his real estate, except a small portion
theteof, to his four sons. By a codicil he revoked the devise
to his daughter Elizabeth and gave that parcel to one of his
sons.
In making the devises to his son Elias and a portion to his
son Joseph, he made them to such son, "his heirs and assigns
forever in fee simple. ' The other devises are to his several
sons, "their heirs and assigns forever," without the addition
of the words "in fee simple." No devises are in terms of a
less estate. That the testator deliberately nyde the distinction
in the terms of these two classes of devises is shown by the
"general provision," of the will, to the effect of which he
subjects each of the devises of the second class.
The language of the devises was, without more, ample to
create a fee simple. Qualified by the general provision, each
of the devises affected thereby became a determinable fee in
the first taker, with an executory -devise over to the surviving
sons and the child or children of such as might be dead. Abbott v. Essex Company, 18 How. 202; Richardson v. Noyes,
2 Massachusetts, 56; Underhill on Wills, 1272, 1274.
It is a rule in construing wills that where a general intent is
apparent upon the face of the will, and a particular intent
is also expressed whic conflicts with such general intent, the

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

latter will prevail. 2 Williams on Executors (7th Am. ed.), 333;
Chase v. Lockerman, 11 G. & J. 286; Thompson v. Young,
25 Maryland, 459; Taylor v. Watson, 35 Maryland, 524; Smith
v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68; In re Banks' Will, 87 Maryland, 425.
The construction of the will is to be made from the entire
instrument, including the codicil, and the intent of the testator
thus ascertained be permitted to govern. Jones v. Wright,
2 Bligh, 49; White v. Crenshaw, 5 Mackey, 115.
Where two clauses in a will operate on the same property,
devising it differently, giving it to different devisees, or showing
a different technical intention, the latter clause will prevail.
Dugan v. Hollins, 13 Maryland, 149; Manning v. Thurston,
59 Maryland, 226.
The general intent of the testator being to keep his real
estate within the male line of descent, to the exclusion of the
female, is it to be supposed that he was willing that this intent
should be defeated by the mere marriage of a son? He might
be willing to measurably provide for a widow, through an
allowance equal to dower, but the existence of the widow
affords no reason for letting in the daughters to heir.
Courts will change or mold language so as to give effect to
the intention. Schouler on Wills, 3d ed., § 477; Jarman on
Wills, 505, 507; Doe v. Watson, 8 How. 263, 272; Hance v.
Noble, 172 U. S. 383, 389; Hardenberghv. Ray, 151 U. S. 126;
Shugloff v. Johns, 87 Maryland, 273; Scarlett v. Montell, 95
Maryland, 157.
The words "wife or child or children" should be read wife
and child or children. The cases cited and many others
-justify such change.
If the will be construed as we contend, the proceeds of the
devises to James, affected by the general provision, must be
awarded to the appellants, for it will not be claimed that he
left a child surviving him; if, however, this point be ruled
:against the appellants, they must yet succeed, unless it has
been shown, either, first, that James Travers married and his
wife survived him; or, second, that he and his brother Elias

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

205 U. S.

(the last survivor of the brothers) entered into a binding
agreement with their sisters that they should share as heirs
in the property thus devised to James. No such marriage
was proved, and the alleged agreement or estoppel was not
established.
The testimony of the woman, Sophia V. O'Brien, should
have been rejected as wholly unworthy of belief, and with
this out of the case there would not have Jeen the slightest
evidence that James Travers was ever married, except the
recitals of his mutilated will of 1881, of his will .of 1883, and of
the mortgage deed of September 27, 1867.
The mortgage, and the will of 1881, were both made ,in
Maryland, where the "common law marriage," so called,
is unknown, and a ceremony in facice ecclesie is necessary to a
valid union. Denison v. Denison, 35 Maryland, 297.
The will of 1883 seems to have been made in New Jersey,
where a looser rule prevails, but where a contract to marry
is as important as it is in Maryland.
The Court of Appeals had no basis in the evidence for the
assertion in its opinion that during the whole time he called
her and introduced her as his wife, and she was so recognized
.in the. conmmunity generally.
The only witness sworn was the woman. She certainly
could not establish her own repute as married. She said
nothing whatever of her life at Point Pleasant, before the death
of Travers, and, of her, life elsewhere, said only, that Travers
introduced her as his wife, and that she was called "Mrs. Travers." This-falls far short of proving that" public recognition,"
which this court has declared "necessary as evidence of its
existence," in the-case of the marriage without ceremony or
record. Maryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S.490, 495; Commonwealth v. Stump, 53 Pa. St. 132 (cited 112 U. S. 495); Jones v.
Hunter, 2 La. Ann. 224; Taylor v. Swett, 22 Am. Dec. 159, note.
This case, then, must turn upon the question whether there
was a valid marriage between James Travers and Sophia Grayson at Alexandria, Virginia, on August .15, 1865.

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

The Virginia statute required that in all cases a license
should issue and without it there could be no valid marriage.
The emphatic decision of the Court of Appeals of Virginia,
delivered in 1901, would foreclose discussion on this subject
were it not for the ground taken by Mr. Justice Gould, in sustaining as a marriage the union under discussion. "Offield v.
Davis, 100 Virginia, 250; Beverlin v. Beverlin, 29 W. Va. 732.
The Virginia decision is conclusive that without a license
there could be no marriage in that State. Leffingwell v.
Warren, 2 Black, 599, 603; Green v. Lessee of Neal, 6 Pet. 291;
Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 652; Meister v. Moore, 96 U. S.
82; Fairfieldv. County of Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47, 52.
Mr. William A. Gordon, Mr. George E. Hamilton and Mr. M.
J. Colbert, with whom Mr. J. Holdsworth Gordon was on the
brief, for appellees:
While the marriage in Virginia in 1865 did not 'comply with
the statute of that State, under Offield v. Davis, 100 Virginia,
250, and would have been void as to the status of the parties
in that State and as to property there located, as the parties
immediately left that State and never returned there, but
subsequently resided in New Jersey and Maryland, and as
the property in controversy is located in the District of Columbia, the status of Sophia as the wife of James Travers at
the time of his decease does not depend upon the law in
Virginia.
It has never been held that the law in the District of Columbia denied validity to marriages good at common law,
and in fact the only dicta on the subject lean toward the
validity of such marriages, even when, contracted in said
District. Thom as v. Holtzman, 18 App. D. C. 66.
The fact that letters testamentary were granted .to her by
the New Jersey court as the widow of James Travers, although
her name was not given in the will, is conclusive proof of the
reputation of marriage in that community; hnd the fact that
his next of kin and heirs-at-law permitted her as "wif&"

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

to qualify as executrix and take under the devise to his "wife"
shows conclusively that she was recognized by them as the
wife of their brother.
The bequest in the will of his sister Elizabeth, a nun in
the convent at Georgetown, to Annie E. Travers, the reputed
child of James, as her "niece" should be received as evidence
of reputation, so far as that sister is concerned, as to the
marriage, and that James and Sophia V. Travers were man
and wife.
These acts certainly constituted a marriage under the laws
of New Jersey, and if a lawful marriage in that State it will be
recognized as such in the District of Columbia.
Atlantic City R. R. Co. v. Gooding, 62 N. J. 394, it was held
that a contract of marriage made per verba de prwsenti constitutes an actual marriage and is valid, and in Stevens v. Stevens, 56 N. J. Eq. 490, that a common law marriage is good.
Even though the marriage in Virginia did not constitute a
lawful marriage in that State, it did constitute an agreoment
between the parties to accept each other as man and wife,
thus constituting a marriage good at common law, and their
stay in New Jersey immediately after said common law
marriage, and especially the residence in that State in 1883,
prior to the death of James Travers, and their living there in
compliance with the terms of the contract entered into in
Virginia, made their status that of man and wife. Meister v.
Moore, 96 U. S. 76; Meyer v. Pope, 110 Massachusetts, 314;
Smith v. Smith, 52 N. J. 207.
The decision in Offield v. Daiais, rendered in 1902, is not
conclusive on this court, as in 1877 it decided, in Meister v.
Moore, supra,in construing a-statute in many respects identical
with the Virginia statute, that a marriage similar to. that now
under consideration was valid.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was originally brought for the partition or sale of

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certain real estate in the city of Washington devised by the
will (and codicils thereto) of Nicholas Travers who died in the
year 1849, leaving four sons and three daughters.
The only parts of that estate remaining in.dispute are certain
lots in square 291 in Washington, and the questions to be determined depend upon the construction of. that will and upon the
evidence touching the alleged marriage of James Travers, a
son of the testator, with Sophia V. Grayson.
By the first item of the will certain lots are devised to the
testator's son Elias "and his heirs and assigns forever in fee
simple." By the same item other lotg are devised to the same
son, ."which last two levises shall be subject to the general
provision hereinafter made in case of any sons dying without
leaving a wife or child or children."
By the second item the testator devised lot 5, in square 291,
to his son "Joseph Travers and his heirs forever," and two other.
specified lots "to him and his. heirs forever, in. fee simple;"
lot 5 "being subject to the general provision aforesaid hereafter.
made."
By the third-item he devised to his son Nicholas and his heirs
forever certain lots in square 291 "bubject to the general provision hereinafter made;" also "to him and his heirs forever,
in fee simple," other real estate in square 36, and a designated
parcel of ground in square 291, "said piece or parcel of ground
to be subject to the general provision hereafter made."
By the fourth item certain devises are made to the son.
"James Travers and his heirs forever," "all of which devises
are to be subject to thegeneral provision hereinafter made."
Here follows, at the close of'the fourth item, the "general
provision" referred to: "With regard to the several estates
hereinbefore devised'to my several sons, it is hereby declared
to be my will, and I do order and direct, as a general provision,
that if any of my sons should. die without leaving d'wife, or a
child or children living at his death, then his estate herein devised
to him, saving and excepting those portions thereof expressly
granted and so named to be ii fee simple,' and which they

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Oninion of the Court.

205 U. S.

can sell and dispose of as they think fit, shall go, and be invested in fee, to my surviving sons and the child or children
of such as may be dead, such child or children representing
the share of the father-but if either of my sons shall, at his
death, leave a wife either with or without a child or children,
such wife shall be entitled to her dower rights and privileges."
This was followed in the will by certain devises for the benefit
of the daughters, as well as by several codicils to the will, but
it is not necessary to give their provisions in detail.
By a codicil, dated June 26th, 1848, the testator revoked
certain parts of his will, providing: "And in lieu thereof I do
hereby give and devise all of said lots or part 0f lots, so as
aforesaid described, with the house and other improvements
and appurtenances, to my son James and his heirs, subject to
the express stipulations and restrictions contained in the will
to which this is a codicil, wherein I declare that all and every
sportion of my real estate not devised by the use of the words
'in fee simple,' shall be held by such Idevisees for'life, and then
according to stipulations and restrictions as therein contained
and declared by said will."
It is contended here, ,as it was in the courts below, that the
words in the above general provision, that "if any of my sons
should die without leaving a wife or child or children living
at his death," should be interpreted as if it read -"if any of my
sons shouild die without leaving a wife and child or children
living 't his death." The court is thus asked,, by interpretation, to substitute the word "and" in place of "or" in the
above sentence.
Looking at all the provisions of the will, and ascertaining,
as best we may, the intention of the testator, we perceive no
reason for interpreting the words used by him otherwise than
according to their ordinary, natural meaning.
It is insisted by appellants that the general, dominant purpose of the testator was that his real estate should descend
only through his sons, and that his daughters and their descendants should have no share therein. And the doctrine is in-

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

voked that "the predominant idea of a testator's mind, when
discovered, is to be heeded as against all doubtful and' conflicting provisions .which might of themselves defeat it; and
the general intent and particular intent being inconsistent, the
latter .(the particular) must be sacrificed to the former-the
general intent." Schouler on Wills, § 476. This general doc,trine is not controverted, but there are other cardinal rules in
the interpretation, of wills which must be regarded. Mr. Justice Story, speaking for this court, said that effect must be
given "to all the words of a will, if, by the rules of law, it can
be done. And where words occur in a will their plain andordinary sense is to be attached to them, unless the testator
manifestly applies them in some other sense." Wright v.
Denn, 10 Wheat. 204, 239. "The first and great rule in the
exposition of wills," said. Chief Justice Marshall, "to which all
other rules must bend, is that the intention of the testator
expressed in his will shall prevail, provided it be consistent with
the rules of law." Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68, 75; Finlay v. King,
3 Pet. 346, 377. The same thought, in substance, was expressed by Lord Chancellor Eldon in Crooke v. De Vendes, 9
Ves. 197, 205. . He said that "where words have once got a
clear, settled, legal meaning, it is very dangerous to cotijecture
against that, upon no better foundation than simply that it is
improbable, the testator could have meant to do one thing
by one set of words, having done another thing, using bther
words, as to persons in the same degree of relation to him."
It would seem clear that the words "withofit leaving a wife or
child or children," where they first appear in the above general
provision, were purposely chosen. They appear three times in
the will, and their usual meaning is not doubtful. We think
the testator meant "or," not "and." The court would not be
justified in making the proposed substitution unless the whole
context of the will plainly and beyond question requires that
,to be done in order to give effect to the will of the testator.
That the words, in the generai provision, "without leaving a
wife or a child or children," were deliberately selected is to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

some extent shown by the last sentence in the first item of the
will, "which two devises shall be subject to the general provision hereinafter made in case of any sons dying without
leaving a wife or child or children." We do not think that the
testator used the word "or," intending thereby to convey the
same thought as would be expressed by "and." We concur
with the Court of Appeals, speaking by Chief Justice Shepatd,
in holding that the words in question are unambiguous, and
their obvious, ordinary meaning must-not be defeated by conjecture. 25 App. D. C. 567, 576.
The important question remains whether James Travers,
the son of the testator, died leaving a wife or a child or children.
If he did, then the decree below must be affirmed.
The original bill averred that James Travers died in 1883
"without widow or lawful child or children or descendants of a
child or children surviving him." This averment was not
specifically denied in the answers, but in the progress of the
cause the defendants, 'children of the sisters of James Travers,
amended their answer and alleged that he left surviving him
"his widow, Sophia V. Travers, now Sophia V. O'Brien, who
was his lawful wife at the time of his death and who had been
his lawful wife for many years prior thereto, and he left one
child, Annie E. Travers, one of the defendants herein, who was
his lawful child." The issue thus made constituted the principal matfer to which the proof was directed. Both of the courts
below held that under the evidence Sophia V. was to be deemed
the lawful. wife of James Travers at the time of his death.
Children were born to them, but they died very young. It is
conceded that they left .no child surviving them, Annie E.
Travers being only an adopted child.
The appellants insisted throughout the case and now insist
that the relation between James Travers and Sophia V. was
not at any time one of a matrimonial cohabitation, but an
illicit or meretricious cohabitation, which did not create the
relation of husband and wife.
Upon a careful scrutiny of all the evidence as to the alleged

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

marriage we think that the fbllowing facts may be regarded
as established:
1. James Travers, whose domicil was in the District of
Columbia, and Sophia V. Grayson, whose domicil was in West
Virginia, were in Alexandria together on the fifteenth of'
August, 1865, when some sort of marriage ceremony (exactly
what does not appear) was performed by a 'friend of Travers,
whom the woman, then only about seventeen years of age,
and without living parents, supposed at the time was a minister,
entitled to officiate in that capacity at a marriage. She thought
it was a real marriage by a minister, although he did not produce or have any license to solemnize the marriage of these
parties. It must be taken upon the evidence that he was not
a minister. By the statutes of Virginia then in force it was
provided: "Every marriage in this State shall be under a license
and solemnized in the manner herein provided, but no marriage
-solemnized by any persons professing to be 'authorized to
solemnize the same shall be deeme%. or adjudged to be void,
nor shall the validity thereof be in any way affected on account
of any want of authority in such persons if the marriage be in
all other respects lawful and be consummated with a full belief
on the part of the persons so married, or either of them, that
they have been lawfully joined in marriage."
2. Immediately after the affair 'at Alexandria the parties-the woman, from and after that occasion, assuming the name
of Mrs. Travers-left Virginia and went to Shrewsbury, New
Jersey, where, as husband and wife, they remained for a short
time, after which they went to, Belair, Harford County, Maryland, living there, as husband and wife, at a rented place.
3. In 1867 Travers purchased a farm in Talbot County,
Maryland, on which he lived with said Sophia until some time
in 1883, when that farm was sold, and, on account of Travers'
health, they removed to Point Pleasant, New Jbrsey, and
purchased property there, having lived on the Talbot County
farm, as husband and wife, for more than fifteen years. Travers
died at Point Pleasant in the lat-ter part of the year 1883, and
vor. ccNv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

five years after his death the woman, claiming to be and
recognized in the community as the widow of James Travers.
married a lawyer of Philadelphia, the ceremony being performed at the Catholic Church in Point Pleasant.
.4. From the. fifteenth of August, 1865, up to his death, on
the first day of November, 1883-a period of more than
eighteen years-Travers and Mrs. Travers continuously cohabited as husband and wife. During all that period they
acted as if they were lawfully husband and wife, and uniformly
held themselves out as sustaining that relation; and beyond all
question they were regarded as husband and wife in the several
communities in which they lived after leaving Alexandria in
1865. There is no proof that any one coming in contact with
them regarded them otherwise.
5. About five or six years after the latter date Mrs. Travers
learned, for the first time, that Travers' "friend" who had
officiated at the ceremony in Alexandria was not a minister.
She was asked, when giving her deposition, this question:
"Q. After you discovered, some four or five years after you
went to live with Mr. Travers, that you had not been married
to him according to any ceremony, did he ever make any
promise to you in that regard? A. Always. Poor fellow, he
Mr. Birney: We object to that.
would have it all rightQ. And what did he say? A. Well, he would always say that it
was all right, and we were just as much married as if we had
been married before a priest or a minister." Upon the basis
of their being husband and .wife the parties continuously rested
their relations to each other up to the death of Travers.
6. That Travers recognized Mrs. Travers as his wife, and
held her out as such, appears from many facts: (a) In a mortgage executed- September 27th, 1867, to secure the balance of
the purchase money due on the Talbot County farm, the mortgagors are described, both in the body of the mortgage as
"James Travers and Sophia V. Travers, his wife, of Harford
County, in the 'State of Maryland," and in the certificate of
acknowledgment as "James Travers and Sophia V. Travers,

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

his wife," and she signed and acknowledged the mortgage as
Sophia V. Travers. (b) By a-mutilated, holographic will dated
February 8th, 1881, and signed by James Travers, he gave,
devised and bequeathed "to my wife Sophy Virginia Travers,"
all his household furniture, books, pictures, etc., to have and
to hold the same to her, and her executors, administrators and
assigns forever; also, to her the use,. improvement and income
of his dwelling house and farm, "to have and to hold the same
to her for and during her natural life; and from and after the
decease of my said wife, I give and bequeath," etc.; and by
which, further, he gave, devised and bequeathed "to my wife
Sophy Virginia Travers, for her sole use," all the rest and
residue of the testator's estate, real, personal or mixed, of
which he died seized and possessed, or to which he should be
entitled at the time of his decease. That will concluded:
"Lastly, I do nominate.apd appoint my said wife sole executrix
of this my last will-'and testament." (c) By a will dated at
Point Pleasant, New Jersey, October 5th, 1883, witnessed by
three persons, James Travers devised to his brothers and sisters
all his interest and property in the District of Columbia, and
"to my wife, while she remains my widow, all my property of
every description and character not hereinbefore disposed of
with full power of disposition and alienation, provided, however, that in case our daughter survives her, that all the
property not disposed of prior to. my wife's decease shall be and
become the pioperty of our said daughter, and in the event
of my wife's contracting another marriage, then, it is my will
that she shall possess and, enjoy as of her own right, only onethird of the property then remaining, and that the other twothirds shall be invested and held in trust for my daughter
Annie, and paid to her upon attaining her majority. . ..
I hereby appoint my wife Sole Executrix of this my last will
and testament." 'That will was duly proven before the Surrogate of Ocean County, New Jersey, jphrtly by Mrs. Travers,
and that officer certified that "Sophia Virginia Travers of the
county of Ocean, the executrix therein named, proved the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

same before me and she is duly authorized to take upon herself
the administration of the estate of the testator agreeably to
said will." That will was duly filed and recorded in the proper
office in the District of Columbia.
In view of these facts, the question is whether the woman
Sophia was to be deemed the lawful wife of James Travers at
the time of his death in 1883. Marriage in fact, as distinguished
from a ceremonial marriage, may be proven in various ways.
Of course the best evidence of the exchange of marriage consent between the parties would come from those who were
personally present when they mutually agreed to take each
other as husband and wife, and to assume all the responsibilities
of that relation. But a legal marriage may be established in
other ways. It may be shown by what is called habit or repute.
Referring to marriage at common law, Kent says: "The consent of the parties may be declared before a magistrate, or
simply before witnesses, or subsequently confessed or acknowledged, or the marriage may even be. inferred from continual
cohabitation and reputation as husband and wife, except in
cases of civil actions for adultery, or in public prosecutions for
bigamy or adultery, when actual proof of the marriage is required." 2 Kent, 12th ed., 88.
Naturally, the first inquiry must have reference to what
occurred at Alexandria, Virginia, in 1865, when, as the woman
supposed-in good faith, we think-that there was a real, valid
marriage between her and James Travers. But we will assume
for the purposes of this case only that that marriage was not a
valid one under the laws of Virginia. We do this in deference
to the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia in
Offield v. Davis, 100 Virginia, 250, 263, in which that court, construing the above statute of that Commonwealth, held it to be
mandatory, not directory, and had abrogated the common law
in force in Virginia, and that no marriage or attempted marriage, if it took place there, would be held valid there, unless
it be shown to have been under a license, and solemnized according to the statute of that Commonwealth. We will also

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assume, but only for the purposes of the present decision, tnd
because of the earnest contentions of the plaintiffs in error,
that cohabitation in Maryland, as husband and wife, for more
than fifteen years, and the recognition of that relation in the
communities where they resided in that State, did not entitle
James Travers and the woman Sophia to be regarded in that
State as lawfully husband and wife. We make this assump.tion also because it appears here that James Travers and
Sophia V. Grayson did not become husband and wife in virtue
of any religious ceremony, and because it has been decided
by the Court of Appeals of Maryland that in that State "there
cannot be a valid marriage without a religious ceremony,"
although "a marriage may be competently proved without the
testimony of witnesses who were present at the ceremony."
Richardsonv. Smith, 80 Maryland, 89, 93. That court also said
in the same case: "The law has wisely provided that marriage
may be proved by general reputation, cohabitation and acknowledgment; when these exist, it will be inferred that a
religious ceremony has taken place; and this proof will not be
invalidated because evidence cannot be obtained of the time,
place and manner of the celebration of the marriage. On this
point we think it unnecessary to do more than quote from
Redgrave v. Redgrave, 38 Maryland, 93, 97: 'Where parties live
together ostensibly as man and wife, demeaning themselves
towards each other as such, and are received into society and
treated by their friends and relations as having and being entitled to that status, the law will, in favor of morality and
decency, presume that they have been legally married. 1
Taylor, Evidence, §§ 140, 517; Hervey v. Hervey, 2 W. B1.
877; Goodman v. Goodman, 28 L. J. Ch. 1; Jewell v. Jewell,
1 How. 219, 232. Indeed, the most usual way of proving marriage, except in actions for criminal conversation and in prosecutions for bigamy, is by general reputation, cohabitation and
acknowledgment. Sellman v. Bowen, 8 Gill & John. 50; Boone
v. Purnell, 28 Maryland, 607.' " We may refer, in this connection, to what the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

speaking by Judge Merrick, who was learned in the law of
Maryland, said in Thomas v. Holtzman, 18 D. C. 62, 66: "In
the first place, it is not at all apparent that it ever was the law
that a marriage in facie de ecclesixs was necessary for the purpose of legitimating the issue. It is true that the Court of
Appeals of Maryland in the last four or five years has decided
that such was the law, but that decision is not binding upon
us. It is laid down by Blackstone that a marriage per verba
de prcesenti without the intervention of a clergyman is a legitimate marriage. And both Story and Kent say that according
to the universal understanding in this country a marriage
per verba de prxsenti, without the intervention of a clergyman,
followed by cohabitation, makes a legitimate marriage."
In Voorhees v. Voorhees, 1 Dick. Ch. 411, 413, 414, the Court
of Chancery of New Jersey said: "Two essentials of a valid'
marriage are capacity and consent.

.

.

Marriage is a

civil contract, and no ceremonial is indispensably requisite to
its creation. A contract of marriage made per verba de prcesenti
amounts to an actual marriage and is valid," quoting O'Gara
v. Eisenlohr,38 N. Y. 296. In Atlantic City y4 Gordin, 62 N. J.
394, 400, the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals said:
"In the Voorhees case Vice Chancellor Van Fleet concedes that
a contract of marriage made per verba de proesenti amounts to
an actual marriage and is valid, and in the case of Stevens v.
Stevens, 11 Dick. Ch. Rep. 488, Vice Chancellor Pitney declares the law on the subject to the same effect, citing abundant authority."
This brings us to consider what were the relations of these
parties after selling the Maryland farm and after taking up
their residence in New Jersey in 1883. That their cohabitation, as husband and wife, after 1865 and while they lived in
Maryland, continued without change after they became domiciled in New Jersey and up to the death of James Travers; and
that they held themselves out in New Jersey as lawfully husband and wife, and recognized themselves and were recognized
in the community as sustaining that relation, is manifest from

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

all the evidence and circumstanceS. It is impossible to explain,
their conduct towards each other while living in New Jersey
upon any other theory than that they regarded each other as
legally holding the matrimonial relation of husband and wife.
It is true that no witness proves express words signifying an
actual agreement or .contract between the parties to live
together as husband and wife. No witness heard them say,
in words, in the presence of each other, "We have agreed to
take each other as husband and wife, and live together as such,"
But their conduct towards each other, from the time they left
Alexandria in 1865. up to the death of James Travers in 1883,
admits of no other interpretation than that they had agreed,
from the outset, to be husband and wife. And that agreement,
so far as this record shows, was faithfully kept up to the death
of James Travers. When it is remembered that James Travers
assured the woman Sophia that they were as much married as
if they had been married by a priest or minister; that in his
mortgage of 1867 she is described as his wife; that in th&holographic will of 1881 he recognized her as his wife; that in his
last will, made at his domicil in New Jersey, he referred to her
as his wife, and devised by that will property to her while she
remained his widow and did not contract another marriage; and
that he made her the sole executrix of his -will, describing her.
as his wife; when these facts are supplemented by the fact that
they lived together, without intermission, in good faith, and
openly, for more than eighteen years as husband and wife,
nothing more. is needed to show that he and the Woman had
mutually agreed to sustain the relation of husband and wife.
Under the evidence in the cause they are to be held as having
prior to the death of James Travers, agreed per verba de prcesenti
to become husband and wife.
Did the law of New Jersey recognize them as husband and
wife after they took up their residence in that State and lived
together, in good faith, as husband and wife and were there
recognized as such? Upon the authorities cited this question
must be answered in the affirmative.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

We are of opinion that even if the alleged marriage would
have been regarded as invalid in Virginia for want of license,
had the parties remained there, and invalid in Maryland for
want of a religious ceremony, had they remained in that State,
it was to be deemed a valid marriage in New Jersey after James
Travers and the woman Sophia, as husband and wife, took up
their permanent residence there and lived together in that relation, continuously, in good faith, and openly, up to the death of
Travers-being regarded by themselves and in the community as
husband and wife. Their conduct towards each other in the eye
of the public, while in New Jersey, taken in connection with
their previous association, was equivalent, in law, to a declaration by each that they did and during their joint lives were to
occupy the relation of husband and wife. Such a declaration
was as effective to establish the status of marriage in New
Jersey as if it had been made in words of the present tense
after they became domiciled in that State.
The views we have expressed find support in the authorities.
In Meister v. Moore, 96 U. S. 76, 79, it was said that an informal marriage by contract per verba de pr&,senti constituted
a marriage at common law, and that a statute simply requiring
"all marriages to be entered into in the presence of a magistrate
or clergyman, or that it be preceded by a license, or publication of banns, or be attested by witnesses," may be construed
"as merely directory, instead of being treated as destructive of
a common law right to form the marriage relation by words of
present assent."
In Maryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490, 494, 495, the court
said: "It is proper to say that, by the law of Pennsylvania,
where, if at all, the parties were married, a marriage is a civil
contract, and may be made per verba de presenti, that is, by
words in the present 'tense, without attending ceremonies,
religious or civil. Such is also the law of -many other States
in the absence of statutory regulation. It is the doctrine of'the
common law. But where no such ceremonies are required, and
no record is made to attest the marriage, some public recogni-

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of it is necessary as evidence of its existence. The protection of the parties and their children and considerations of
public policy require this public recognition; and it may be
made in any way which can be seen and known by men, sucl
as living together as man and wife, treating each other and
speaking of each other in the presence of third parties as bcing
in that relation, and declaring the relation in documents
executed by them whilst living together, such as deeds, wills,
and other formal instruments."
So in Hoggan v. Craigie, Mac. & Rob. 942, 965, in which
Lord Chancellor Cranworth, referring to contracts of marriage
per verba de prcesenti, said: "It is not necessary to prove the
contract itself; it is sufficient if the facts of the case are such as
to lead to satisfactory evidence of such a contract having taken
place; upon this principle the acknbwledgment of the parties,
their conduct towards each other, and the repute consequent
upon it, may be sufficient to prove a marriage. . . . Everything, therefore, is pertinent and relevant in an inquiry like the
present, which indicates the present or previous consent of the
parties." Again, in Campbell v. Campbell, known as the
Breadalbane Case, L. R. 1 Sc. App. 182, 192, 196, 211, Lord
Chancellor Chelmsford said: "Habit and repute arise from
parties cohabiting together openly and constantly, as if. they
were husband and wife, and so conducting themselves towards
each other for such a length of time in the society or neighborhood of which they are members as to produce a general belief
that they are really married." In the same case Lord Westbury, after observing that it might not be strictly correct to
speak of cohabitation with habit and repute as a mode of contracting marriage, said: "It is rather a mode of making manifest to the world that tacit consent which the law will infer to
have been already interchanged. If I were to express what I
collect from the different opinions on the subject I should
rather. be inclined to express the rule in the following language:
that cohabitation as husband and wife is amanifestation of the
parties having consented to contract the relationship inter se.

OCTOBER, TERM 1906.
HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

205 U. S.

It is a holding forth to the world by the manner of daily life
by conduct, demeanor, and habit, that the man and woman
who live together have agreed to take each other in marriage
and to stand in the mutual relation of husband and wife; and
when credit is given by those among whom they live, by their
relatives, neighbors, friends, and acquaintances, to these representation and this continued conduct, then habit and repute
arise and attend upon the cohabitation. The parties are holden
and reputed to be husband and wife; and the law of Scotland
accepts this combination of circumstances as evidence that
consent to marry has been lawfully interchanged." In his
Treatise on Domestic Relations, Eversley says: "Marriage may
also be proved between the parties by their conduct towards
each other, and the first consent need not be proved; 'it is sufficient if the facts of the case are such as to lead to satisfactory
evidence of such a contract having taken place; the acknowledgment of the parties, their conduct toward each other, and the
repute consequent upon it, may be sufficient to prove a marriage'" p. 41. See also 2 Greenleaf on Evidence (Harriman's
ed.), §§ 461, 462, and notes; 3 Wigmore on Evidence, §§ 2082,
2083, and authorities cited.
Without further discussion or citation of authorities, we
adjudge that the courts below did not err in holding that, under
the evidence, James Travers and the Mrs. Travers who lived
with him constantly and openly as his wife for more than
eighteen years, were_ iff law, to be deemed husband and wife
at the time of his death, in New Jersey, in 1883. It results
from this view that the decree of the Court of Appeals, affirming the decree of the Supreme Court of the District, must itself
be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE MOODY

did not

participate in the decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

I feel some doubts in this case which I think that I ought

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
205 U. S.

HOLMES,

J.; dissenting.

to state. I understand it to be assumed, as it must be admitted, that James Travers and Sophia V. Grayson lived together for many years, calling themselves man and wife, when
they were not man and wife and probably knew that they
were not man and wife. This condition of things lasted from
1865, the time of the pretended marriage in Virginia to which
their cohabitation referred for its justification, until 1883, the
. year of James Travers' death. So long as they lived in Maryland, that is until some time in 1883, if they had attempted to
make -their union more legitimate by simply mutual agreement
they could not have done it. Therefore the instances of James
Travers calling Sophia his wife during that period may be laid
on one side.
Just before he died Travers moved to New Jersey and there
made his will. As in Maryland, he spoke of his wife in that
instrument, and as I understand it, the decision that he was
married must rest wholly on this recognition and the fact that
in New Jersey a marriage may be made without the intervention of a magistrate. I do not see how these facts can be
enough. Habit and repute might be evidence of a marriage
when unexplained. But they must be evidence of a contract,
however informal, to have any effect. When an appellation
shown to have been used for nearly eighteen years with conscious want of justification continues to be used for the last
month of lifetime, I do not see how the fact that the parties
have crossed a state line can make that last month's use evidence that in that last moment the parties made a contract
which then for the first time they could have made in this way.
It is imperative that a contract should have been made in
New Jersey. Therefore even if both parties had supposed
that they were married instead of knowing the contrary it
would not have mattered. To live in New Jer.-ey and think
you are married does not constitute a marriage by the law of
,that State. If there were nothing else in the case it might
be evidence of marriage, but on these facts the belief, if it was
entertained, 'referred to the original inadequate ground.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

Collins v. Voorhees, 47 N. J. Eq. 555. A void contract is not
made over again or validlited by being acted upon at a time
when a valid contract could be made. When a void contract
is acted upon, the remedy, when there is one, is not on the
contract, but upon a quasi-contract, for a quantum meruit.
There is no such alternative when a marriage fails.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILWAY COMPANY v. WILLIAMS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 243.

Argued March 14, 15, 1907.-Decided April 15, 1907.

Under § 6 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
826, the certificate of the Circuit Court of Appeals as to questions or
propositions of law concerning which it desires instruction must present
a distinct point of law, clearly stated, which can be decided without
passing upon the weight or effect of the advice on which the question
arises, and if not so presented this court is without jurisdiction; and
where the question certified practically brings up the entire case, and this
court is asked to pass upon the validity of a contract and indicate what
the final judgment should be, the certificate will be dismissed and the
questions not answered.
THIS case is before the court upon a question certified by
the Circuit Court of Appeals under the sixth section of the
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, providing that in every case
within its appellate jurisdiction a Circuit Court of Appeals
may certify to this court any questions or propositions of law
concerning which it desires instruction for the proper decision
of such case. 26 Stat. 826, c. 517.
Accompanying the certificate is a detailed statement of the
case as disclosed by the evidence. It is well to give that statement in full. It is as follows:

