OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 UI.S.

of the United States. It follows that the judgment of the
state court must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

CITIZENS' SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY, v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS._
No. 238.

Submitted January 7, 1907.-Decided March 4. 1907.

The repealing section of the Judiciary Act of 1887-1888 did not reach § 8
of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, and that section is still in force.
Jellinik v. Huron Copper Mining Co., 177 U. S. 1, i0.
A suit brought by owners of stock of a railroad company for the cancellation
of deeds and leases under and by authority of which the properties of the
company are held ard managed is a suit within the meaning of § 8 of the
act of March 3,1875, 18Stat. 470, as one to remove incumbrances or-clouds
upon rent or personal property and local to the district and within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the district in which the property is
situated, without regard to the citizenship of defendants so long as diverse
to that of the plaintiff, and foreign defendants not found can be brought
in by order of the court subject to the condition prescribed by that section,
that any adjudication affecting absent non-appearing defendants shall
affect only such property within the districts as may be the subject of the
suit and under the jurisdiction of the court.
Non-resident defendants appearing in the Circuit Court under protest' for
the sole purpose of denying jurisdiction do not waive the condition in § 8
of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, that any judgment of the court
shall affect only property within the district.

in equity was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern DistriCt of Illinois against the
Illinois Central Railroad Company, the Belleville and Southern
Illinois Railroad Company, the St. Louis, Alton and Terre
THISSuit

CITIZENS' SAV. & TR. CO. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 47
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Haute Railroad Company, all Illinois corporations (to be
hereafter called, respectively, the Illinois the Belleville,
and Terre Haute companies), and the United States Trust
Company, a New York corporation. The last named corporation -was never served with process and did not appear in the
suit.. The case presents a question as to the jurisdiction of
the court below.
The plaintiff, an Ohio corporation, is the holder of four
hundred shares of the common stock of the Belleville Company, and sues as well in its own as on the behalf of all other
stockholders of that company or beneficiaries, who may choose
to come in and bear their proportion of the cost and expenses
of the proceedings. Assuming. the allegations of the bill to
be true, the suit is not a collusive one, and could be properly
brought by a stockholder of the Belleville Company, making
that company a defendant.
The bill refers to various instruments, deeds and leases,
as follows: A deed of October 1st, 18 9 5 j, between the Terre
Haute Company, the Illinois Company and the Belleville
Company, whereby the railroad and properties of the Belleville Company, then held by the Terre Haute under a lease
executed in 1866, were transferred to the Illinois Company
for a period of ninety-nine years; a deed of September 10th,
1897, to which the Belleville and Terre Haute Companies
were parties and which purported to transfer the title to all
the railroad properties of the former to the latter company;.,
a lease of September 15th, 1897, by the Terre Haute Company. to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, confirming
the above lease of October 1st, 1895, and covering, among
other properties, the Belleville railroad, extending from
Belleville, in St. Clair County, Illinois, to Duquoini, Perry
County, in the same State; and, a deed of February 17th,
1904, between the Terre Haute Company and the Illinois
Company, purporting to convey to the latter company all
the railroad properties, corporate rights and franchises of. the
former company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statementof the Case.

205 U. S.

The plaintiff prayed that these leases and deeds, so far as
they affect or purport to affect the properties, franchises,
rights or, liabilities of the Belleville Company be cancelled
and. declared void, and that that company be required to
return and account for whatever consideration it may have
received under such leases and deeds to the party or parties
from whom the consideration may have moved.
The bill charges, in substance, that said deeds were illegally
and fraudulently procured by the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, and by mieans of those instruments, and by various
improper schemes, that company has acquired not only complete control over and possession of the B6lleville Company,
and all its properties but has managed, and iscontinuing to
manage those properties, in its own interest and in total disregard of the rights of holders of the common stock of the
Belleville Company. ' Indeed, it is charged that what the Illinois Central Railroad. Company has done, is doing, (and, unless restrained, will continue to do), has practically destroyed
the value of such stock.
The plaintiffs also prayed for a decree ordering the defendant, the Illinois Central Railroad Company, to account
for and pay over to the Belleville Company, or to a recei'ver
to be appointed for that company, such proportion of the
yearly gross earnings as the Belleville Company is entitled
to under the lease executed by and between the Belleville
Company and the Terre Haute Railroad Company, bearing
date October 1st, 1866; such accounting to cover each fiscal
year, or part thereof, from the time when the Illinois Central
Railroad Company first acquired the railroad properties of'
The Belleville Company as lessee or sub-lessee under the lease
executed on or about the first of April, 1896, up to the time of
such accounting; further, for "an order appointing a receiver
for The Belleville & Southern Illinois' Railroad Company,
witli the usual powers of such receivers; and that the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, through its officers and agents,
to be ordered to surrender and deliver to said receiver all the

CITIZENS' 8AV. & TR. CO. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 49
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

corporate assets, books, papers and everything that rightfully belongs to The Belleville & Southern Illinois Railroad
Company, and that the Illinois Central Railroad Company
be ordered to account to such receiver, Ias is hereinbefore
prayed. That the defendant, the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, its officers and agents, be restrained from further
violating the rights of your orator, and be ordered, directed
and miestraine'd in particular from interfering in any way
with said receiver, or with the operation of said Belleville
Company as an.independent and separate railroad company;
and for such other and further relief as the equity of the case
may require."
Process in the case .against the Illinois Company was served
upon its ticket agent at East St. Louis, "there being no President, Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer of that Company
found" in the District; and against the Belleville and Terre
Haute companies, upon a director of each company, at Pinkneyville, Illinois, there being no President, Vice President,
Secretary or Treasurer of either of those companies found in
the District.
The Belleville Company pleaded-especially appearing
under protest for the purposes of its plea and n6 other-that
the court'below was withbut jurisdiction to proceed- against
it, in that the defendant was an inhabitant of the Northern
Division of the Northern District of Illinois, having its residence in that Division and District at Chicago, where its
corporate meetings: were held and its corporate business
transacted.
Similar pleas were filed by the Terre. Haute Company
and the Illinois Central Railroad Company, each speciallyappearing under protest for the purpose only of denying the
jurisdiction of the. court below and each company claiming
to be an inhabitant and resident of the Northern District of
Illinois.
By its final order the court sustained the pleas-tq.the jurisdiction, and dismissed the suit.
VOL. ccV-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

205 U. S.

Mr. Edward C. Eliot and Mr. William B. Sanders, for appellant:
The Circuit Court of the Eastern District of Illinois has
jurisdiction of this suit, because it is a suit brought to enforce
an equitable lien upon or claim to, or to remove an incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real estate within the
Eastern District of Illinois, and comes within § 8 of the act
of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. L. 472. Jellenik v. Huron Copper
Co., 177 U. S. 1; Mellen v. Moline Iron Works, 131 U. S.352.
Section 738 has never been confined to actions which were
strictly local at common law. McBurney v. Carson, 99
U. S. 567; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556. See also
Evans v. Charles Scribners Sons, 58 Fed. Rep. 303; Cowell v.
Water Supply Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 769; McGee 'v.
Railroad Co.,
48 Fed. Rep; 243; Castello v. Castello, 14 Fed. Rep. 207; Single v. Paper Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 553.
A suit for the specific performance of a contract for the
sale of land may be either a suit in personam or a suit in rem,
or quasi inrem.
Section 738 is'
meant to include more than suits that were
local at common law. Greeley v. Lowe, 155 U. S. 58, 70;
Adams v. Cowles, 96 Missouri, 501; Acker v. Leland, 96 N. Y.
383.
The present suit is one brought to enforce an equitable claim
to, or to remove an incumbrance or cloud upon, the title to
real estate within the Eastern District of Illinois. Irrespective of the question, as to whether or not the present suit is
local, as determined by the principles of common law, no
one will urge that Congress intended to exclude from § 738
any suit which would have been local at common law. At
common law the suit brought by complainant would have
been local and not transitory. Chapin v. Dodds, 104 Michigan,
232; McKenzie v. Bacon, 38 La. Ann. 764.
A proceeding in rem, strictly construed, is one taken directly against the property, in which the property itself is
actually impleaded, as in the case of a libel in admiralty.

CITIZENS' SAV. & TR. CO. v. ILLINOIS CENT. -R. R. 5t
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

But to determine the locality of an action, a proceeding in
rem is construed more broadly, and embraces many actions
brought against individual defendants, proceedings which
properly, perhaps, should be called quasi in ren. Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 734.
Mr. J. M. Dickinson and Mr. Blewett Lee, for appellees:
In order to determine whether the suit is really one "to
remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to
real or personal property within the district where such suit
is brought" our only recourse is to the bill itself, and it is
clear that the bill is' one for an accounting according to the
terms of a certain lease, and incidentally for the cancellation
of certain. instruments and the appointment of a general
receiver of corporate assets. The incidental effect of granting all the relief prayed for in the bill might be to clear the
supposed title of the Belleville Company to the railroad which
it formerly owned, but this relief, like that of appointing a
receiver, would be ancillary only. Ellis v. Reynolds, 35
Fed. Rep. 394.
The essence of the bill is that a sufficient rental is not realized from the railroad formerly owned by the Belleville
Company, and. that the common stockholders are not getting any dividends and will not get any under present conditions. To the end that the common stockholders may
get dividends, the bill prays that every instrument. which
stands in the, way of that' laudable end shall be cancelled,
and an accounting rendered upon a basis which will make
money for the common stockholders. The general cancellationi of leases and conveyances -is all for the purpose of an'
accounting at an adequate rental for the use of the railroad
formerly belonging to the Belleville Company. Essentially
the bill is one for an accounting and nothing else, and the
suggestion that it is one to quiet title is an ingenious afterthought.
While it is possible that upon the facts alleged in the bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellees.

205 U. S.

a suit might have been framed in such a way as to be a claink
to real estate or to remove an incumbrance or lien upon real
estate within the meaning of this statute, the complainant
has not elected so to frame his bill. The bill is not one to
remove an incumbrance or lien upon the title to real estate,
nor is it a bill to reniove a cloud upon the title to real estate.
In order to file a bill to remove a cloud from title the complainant must be in possession of the premises. Frost V.
Spitley, 121 U. S. 552, 556; Florida.v. Furman, 180 U. S.
402, 428.
On the contrary, the bill shows that the railroad formerly
of the Belleville Company is in the possession of the, Illinois
Company .and an inspection of the prayer will show that it
does not ask that the possession of the railroad be restored
to the Belleville Company or to cancel the lease of October 1,
1866, by which the railroad formerly of the Belleville Company was leased to the Terre Haute Company
for a period of
.999 years. The bill, therefore, is not one to'enforce a claim
to real estate, nor is it one to enforce an equitable lien 'upon
real estate. While the bill prays for an accounting upon the
basis that the lease of the Belleville Company to the Terre
Haute Company of October 1, 1866, is. still in force, it also
prays that the Belleville Company be ordered to return and
deliver up and account for whatever considerations it may
have received under the various deeds and leases since that
time.
In the cases cited by complainant the bill as actually framed
and upon all the facts shown was really one to enforce "an
equitable lien upon, or claim to, or to remove an incumbranc6
or lien or cloud upon title to real or personal property
within the district where such suit is brought," instead of
being, like the present suit, essentially one 'n personam
Jellinik v. Huron Co., 177 U. S. 1; Goodman v. Niblack, 102
U. S. 556; McBurney v. Carson, 99 U. S.567; Mellen v. Moline
Iron Works, 131 U. S. 352; Greeley v. Lowe, 155 U. S. 58,
and other cases, discussed an-d distinguished.

CITIZENS' SAV. & TR. CO. v. ILIANOIS CENT. R. I. 53
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here upon a certificate as to the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court.
The Eastern District of Illinois was created by the act of
Congress approved March 3d, 1905, c. 1427. 33 Stat. 992,
995. The, present suit in equity was, as we have stated,
instituted in the Circuit Court for that District, but its jurisdiction was denied by the judgment below upon the ground
solely that each defendant railroad corporation was shown
to be an inhabitant of the Northern District of Illinois, not
of the Eastern District, and, therefore, this suit was not
local to the latter District.
By the eighth section of the act of March 3d, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, it was provided: "That when in any suit, commenced in any circuit court of the United States, to enforce
any legal or equitable lien upon, or claim to, or to remove
any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real or personal property within the district where such suit is brought,
one or more of the defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of, or found within, the said district, or shall not voluntarify appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court'to makean order directing such absent defendant or defendants to
appear, plead, answer, or demur, by a day certain to be designated, which order shall be served on such absent defendant
or defendants, if practicable, wherever found, and also upon
the person or persons in possession or charge of said property, if any there be; or where such personal service upon"
such absent defendant or defendants is not practicable, such
order shall be published in such manner as the court may
direct, not less than once a week for six consecutive weeks;
and in case such absent defendant shall not appear, plead,
answer, or demur within the time so limited, or within some
further time, to be allowed by the court, in-its discretion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinio,, of the Court.

205 U. S.

and upon proof of the service or publication of saidiorder,
and of the performance of the directions contained in the
same, it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction,
and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of such suit
in the same manner as if such absent defendant had been
served with process within the said district; but said adjudication shall, as regards said absent defendant or defendants
without appearance,- affect only the property which shall
have been the subject of the suit and under the jurisdiction
of the .court therein, within such district," etc. 18 Stat.
470, 472, c. 137.
These, provisions were substantially those, embodied in
§ 738 of the Revised Statutes, except that the act of 1875
embraced (as § 738 did not) suits in equity "to remove any
encumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real or personal property." Both section 738 and the act of 1875 related to legal and equitable liens or claims on real and personal
property within the district where the suit was brought.
The repealing clause of the Judiciary Act of 1887-1888
did not reach the 8th section of-the act of 1875. That section is still in force, as was expressly held in Jellenik v. Huron
Copper Mining Co., 177 U. S. 1, 10.

We are then to inquire as to the scope of the eighth section of
the above act'of 1875. And that inquiry involves the question whether this suit is one "to enforce any legal or equitable
lien upon, or claim to, or to remove any encumbrance or lien or
cloud upon the title, to real or personal property" within the
Eastern. District of Illinois where the suit was brought.
In Mellen i,. Moline Malleable Iron Works, 131 U. S. 352,
we had occasion to examine the provisions of the act of 1875.
A'question there arose as to-the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court
of the United States to render a decree annulling a trust deed
and chattel mortgage covering property within the district
where the suit was brought, in which suit the defendants
did not appear, but were proceeded against in the mode
authorized by the above act of 1875. This court said: "The

CITIZENS' SAV. & TR. CO. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 55
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

previous statute gave the above remedy only in suits 'to
enforce any legal or equitable lien or claim against real or
personal property within the district where the suit is brought,'
while the act of 1875 gives it also in suits brought 'to remove
any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to' such
property. Rev. Stat. § 738; 18 Stat. 472, c. 137, § 8. We
are of opinion that the suit instituted by the Furnace Company against the Iron Works and others belonged to the
class of suits last described. The trust deed and chattel mortgage in question embraced specific property within the district
in which the suit -was brought. The Furnace Company, in
behalf of itself and other creditors of the Iron Works, claimed
an interest in such property as constituting a trust fund for
the payment of the debts of the latter, and the right to have
it subjected to the payment of their demands. In Graham v.
Railroad Company, 102 U. S. 148, 161, this court said that
'when a corporation became insolvent, it is so far civilly
dead, that its property may be administered as a trust fund
for the benefit of the stockholders and creditors. A court
of equity, at the instance of the proper parties, will then make
those funds trust funds, which, in other circumstances, are
as much the absolute property of the corporation as any
man's property is his.' See also Mumma v. Potomac Company, 8 Pet. 281, 286; County of Morgan v. Allen, 103 U. S.
498, 509; Wabash &c.-Railway.v. Ham, 114 U. S. 587, 594;
2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1252; 1 Perry on Trusts, § 242. The
trust deed and chattel mortgage executed by the Iron Works
created a lien upon the property, in favor of Wheeler, Carson,
Hill, and the Keator Lumber Company, superior to all other
creditors. The Furnace Company, in behalf of itself and
other unsecured creditors, as well as Wheelock, denied the
validity of Hill's lien as against them. That lien was therefore an incumbrance or cloud upon the title, to their prejudice.
Until such lien or incumbrance was removed, they could not
know the extent of their interest in .the property or in the
proceeds of its sale. The case made by the oiiginal, as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

as cross-suit, seems to be within both the letter and the spirit
of the act of 1875."
A recent case is that of Jellinik v. Huron Copper Mining Co.,
supra. That was a suit by stockholders of a Michigan corporation. Its object, as the bill disclosed, was to remove the
cloud that had come upon their title to the shares of stock
held by them. The issues in the case made it necessary to
determine the scope of the above act of 1875, c. 137. This
court said: "Prior to the passage of the above act of March 3,
1875, the authority of a Circuit Court of the United States
to make an order directing a (efendant-who was not an
inhabitant of nor found within the district and who did not
voluntarily appear-to appear, plead, answer or demur, was
restricted* to suits in equity brought to enforce legal or equitable liens or claims against real or personal property within
the district. Pev. Stat. § 738. But that act extended the
authority of the court to a suit brought 'to remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real or personal
property within the district where such suit is brought.' One
of the objects of the present suit-was to remove an incumbrance or cloud upon the title to certain shares of the stock
of a Michigan corporation. No question is made as to the
jurisdiction of the court so far as it rests upon the diverse
citizenship of the parties. The plaintiffs alleged that they
were the equitable owners of that stock, although the legal
title was in certain of the defendants. The relief asked was
a decree establishing their rightful title and ownership; and

in order that such a decree might be obtained the defendants
referred to were ordered to appear, plead, answer or demur;
but as they refused to do so, the Circuit Court decided that it
could not proceed further. That court was of opinion that
'the shares of stock in question are not personal property
within the district within the purview of the statute of the
United States authorizing the bringing in by publication of
notice to-non-resilent defendants who assert some right or
claim to the property which is the subject of suit.' 82 Fed.

CITIZENS' SAV. & TR. CO. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 57
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 778, 779. The proper forum, the court said, for the
litigation of the question involved would be in the State of
which the defendants were citizens. The question to be
determined on this appeal is, whether the stock in question
is personal property within the. district in which the suit was
brought. If it is, then the case is embraced by the act of 1875,
c. 137, and the Circuit Court erred in dismissing the bill."
Again: "It is sufficient for this case to say that the State under
whose laws the Company came into existence has declared,
as it lawfully might, that such stock is to be deemed personal
property. That is. a rule which the Circuit 'Court of the
United States sitting in Michigan should enforce as part of
the law of the State in'respect of corporations created by it.
The stock held by, the defendants residing outside of Michigan
who refused to submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court being regarded as personal property, the act
of 1875 must be held to embrace the present case, if the stock
in question is 'within the district'in which the suit was brought.
Whether the stock is in Michigan, so as to authoiize that
State to subject it to taxation as against individual shareholders domiciled in another State, is a question not presented in this case, and we express no opinion upon it. But
we are of opinion that it is within Michigan for the purposes
of a suit brought. there against the Company-such shareholders being made parties to the suit-to determine whether
t6je stock is rightfully held by them. The certificates are
only evidence of the ownership of the shares, and the interest'
represented by the shares is held by the Company for the
benefit of the true owner. As the habitation or domicil of
the Company is and must be in the State that created it, the
property represented by its certificates of stock may be deemed
to be held by thxe Company within the State whose creature
it is, whenever it is sought by suit to determine who is its real
owner. This principle is not affected by the fact that the defendant is authorized by the laws of Michigan to have an
office in another State, at which a book showing the transfers

OCTO3ER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Coirt.

205 U. S.

of stock may be kept." See, also, Dick v. Foraker, 155 U. S.
404.
These decisions, we think, make it clear that this suit comes
within the act of 1875, as one to remove an incumbrance or
cloud upon the title to real property within the Eastern District of Illinois. -The railroad in, question is wholly within
that district, although .the defendant corporations, including
the Belleville Company, may hold their annual or other meetings in Chicago. - The bill seeks the cancellation of the deeds
and leases under and by authority of which the properties
of the Belleville Company are held and jnanaged in the interest, as is alleged, of the Illinois'Central' Railroad Company,.
and to th destruction of the rights of the stockholders of the
Belleville Company.. The bill also, as we have seen, prays
for the appointment of a receiver of the Belleville Company
and the surrender and delivery to such receiver of all its
corporate assets, books, papers and everything that rightfully

belongs to it, and account to such receiver, as prayed; also,
that the Illinois Central Railroad Company be restrained
from interfering in any way with the receiver, or with the
operation of the Bellevill" railroad as an independent, separate
company.

In addition, there is a prayer. in the bill for general

relief. If the deeds and leases in question are adjudged to
be void, the entire situation, as to the possession and control
of the Belleville railroad properties, will be changed, and the
alleged incumbrances upon the properties of the Belleville
Company will be removed. We express no opinion upon the
question whether, upon its own showing, or in the event the
allegations of the bill 'are sustained by proof, the plaintiff is
entitled to a decree giving the relief asked by it. There was
no demurrer to the bill as being insufficient in equity. The
only inquiry now is whether, looking at the allegations of the

bill, the suit is of such a nature as to bring it within the act
of 1875, as one to remove incumbrances or clouds upon real
or personal property within the district where the suit was brought,
and, therefore, one local to such district. The' court below held

CITIZENS' SAV. & TR. CO. v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. 59
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the suit was not one which could be brought and maintained against the defendant corporations found to be inhabitants of another district and not voluntarily appearing
in the suit; and this, notwithstanding the railroad in question
is wholly within the district where the, suit was brought.
18 .Stat. 472; 25 Stat. 436. If the suit was within the terms
of the act of 1875, then the Circuit Court of the Eastern District of Illinois, although the defendant corporations may
be inhabitants of another district in Illinois, could proceed
to stich an' adjudication as the facts would justify, subject,
of course, to the condition prescribed by the eighth section of
that act, that any adjudication, Affecting absent defendants
without appearance, should affect only such property, "within
the district as may be the subject of the suit and under the
jurisdiction of the court.
The plaintiff contends that this condition was waived, and
the general appearance of the defendants entered, when their
counsel, at the hearing as to the sufficiency of the pleas to
the jurisdiction, argued the merits of the, case as disclosed by
the bill. This is too harsh an interpretation of what occurred
'in the court below. There was no motion for the dismissal
of the bill for want 'of equity. The discussion of the merits
was permitted or invited by the court in order that it might
be informed on that question in the event it concluded to
consider the itierits along with the question of the sufficiency
of the pleas to the jurisdiction. We are satisfied that the
defendants did not intend to waive the benefit of their qualified appearance at the time of filing the pleas to the jurisdiction.
We adjudge that the suit is of such a nature as to bring it
within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for thea Eastern
District, under. the act of 1875. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed and the cause remanded that the plaintiff
may proceed, as it may be advised, with the preparation 'of
its case under the act of 1875.
It is so ordered.

