OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

from the evidence that the company would not accept their
surrender until they had lapsed, and that they had not lapsed
either when the petition Was'filed or the bankruptcy adjudged.
But this is tantamount to saying that no policy can ever have
a surrender value. According to the testimony, policies
which have a stipulation for such, value are subject to the
same condition. And there is nothing in the record to show
that the practice and policies of other companies are not the
same as those of the- Equitable Life Assurance Society. Section 70 is broad enough to accommodate such condition.
It permits the redemption o a policy by the bankrupt from
the claims of creditors by paying or securing to the trustee
the cash surrender value of the policy "within thirty days"
after such value "has been ascertained and stated to the
trustee by the company issuing the same."
Judgment affirmed.

MOORE v. McGUIRE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT -COURT OF THE UNITEDR STATES, FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
-No. 222.

Argued March 1, 4,1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

Where the bill is brought in the Circuit Court to quiet, and remove a cloud
upon, the title of land alleged to be within the State and District where
the suit is brought, and the cloud is based upon tax sales made under the
authority of an adjoining State in which defendants claim the land is
situated, although the chief difference may be upon the question of fact
as to the location of the boundary line between. the two States, if the
construction of the 'act of Congress admitting one of the States to the
Union and defining its boundaries is also in dispute the Circuit Court has
jurisdiction of the case as one arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States. Joy v. St. Louis, 201 U. S. 332, distinguished.
Under the acts of Congress of March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 348, admitfing Mis-

MOORE v. McGUIRE.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

sissippi, and of June 15, 1836, 5 Stat. 50, admitting Arkansas- to the
Union, the boundary line between the two States is the middle of the
main channel of the Mississippi River as it was in 1817, and at the point
where Island No. 76 is situated it was at that time on the Mississippi
side of that island which has never beeft within the State of Mississippi,
notwithstanding attempts on the part of that State to exercise jurisdiction
thereover.
In this ease the court determined a controversy between private parties
involving the location of the boundary line between two States favorably
to the party in possession of the land involved under the authority, of
the State actually exercising jurisdiction thereover, but expressed doubt
as to whether courts should in such a case go further than the actual
conditions rather than leave it to the other State, if dissatisfied, to bring
a suit in its own name.
142 Fed. Rep. 787, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. E. Myers and Mr. U. M. Rose, with whom Mr. W. E.
Hemingway and Mr. G. B. Rose were on the brief, for appellants:
The boundary line between the States is the thread of the
Mississippi River. If the western boundary of the Mississippi
was at the time of her admission into the Union the eastern
shore of the river, as the act of admission would seem to have
intended, the act of admission of Arkansas, making her eastern
line th6 thread of the river, had the effect to amend the former
act so as to make the line identical for both States. "Where
territories are coterminous they, must have a common boundary." Coflee v. Groover, 123 U. S. 22.
This line is not changed by any later displacements of the
main navigable channel of the river. Missouri v. Nebraska,
196 U. S. 23; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143'U. S. 360; Indiana v.
Kentucky, 136.U. S. 508..
There is no one iving now who knows personally where
the main channel of the river at Island 76 was in 1817. It is
equally impossible to establish the fact by general reputation,
which has passed away with the generation that fqrmed'it.
Nothing then, is left but tradition; ant[ that is the best evidence because it is the only evidence. Ellicott v. Pearl, 10,
Pet. 435.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.,

205 U. S.

Evidence of tradition is admissible in cases of this kind.
"Repute," "reputation" and "tradition" are used convertibly
in this kind of case. 28 Am. & Eng. Ene. Law, 2d ed. 443,
note 7. See also 1 Elliott Ev., §§ 402-403.
Courts have always been liberal in receiving evidence with
regard to boundaries which would not be strictly competent
in the establishment of other facts. Old surveys, perambulations of boundaries, even reputation, are constantly received on the question of boundaries of large tracts of land.
Ayers v. Watson, 137 U. S. 596; Orton v. Smith, 18 How. 266;
Hart v. Sansom, 110 U. S. 155; Boardman v. Reed, 6 Pet. 341;
Beard v. Talbott, Cook (Tenn.) (Cooper's ed.), 142.
On the whole testimony the court below found "that the
evidence conclusively establishes the fact that ever since 1839,
and probably two or three years before that time, up to the
year 1881, the main channel was east of the island."
The effect and construction of a United States land patent
must, in the very nature of the subject, be a question for the
United States courts to determine for themselves, without
reference to the rules of construction adopted by the States
for their grants. Scranton v. Wheeler, 57 Fed. Rep. 811.
The question as to boundaries betwe*en the States is not
governed by the locaLlaw. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367.
The decision of the Land Department that lands are swamp
and overflowed lands is final and conclusive. Rogers Locomotive Works v. Emigrant Co., 164 U. S. 560; Heath v. Wallace,
138 U. S. 573; Wright v. Rosebery, 121 U. S. 509.
A patent is the highest evidence of title, and is'conclusive
as against the Government, and all claiming under junior
patents or titles until it is set aside or annulled by some judicial tribunal in a direct proceeding for that purpose. Moore
v. Robins, 96 U. S. 533.
With the patent passes away all authority or control of
the executive department over the land, and over the title
which it has conveyed. Noble v. Union River Logging Ry.,
147 U. S. 175; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 400.

MOORE v. McGUIRE.
205 U. S.

Argument'for Appellee.

The letters of the United States Land Officers embraced
in'the transcript are wholly irrelevant, except as showing
that the State of Mississippi years ago was fully advised of
the situation from a legal point of view as affecting the questions of acquiescence and prescription.
As no patent has ever issued from the United States to the
State of Mississippi, the defendants are not in a position to
contest the title of the plaintiffs. Stringer v. Young, 3 Pet. 337;
Chotard v. Pope, 12 Wheat. 590; Carrollv. Safford, 3 How. 461.
There is no charge of fraud or unfairness. Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 335.
The Swamp Land Act of September 28, 1850, only granted
lands "which shall remain unsold at the passage of this act."
The defendants have no standing in court unless they can
show a prior right. Schaer v. Gliston, 24 Arkansas, 137;
Holland v. Moon, 39 Arkansas, 120; Miller v. Gibbons, 34
Arkansas, 213; Dewees v. Reinhardt, 165 U. S.392.
A .mere intruder without title cannot attack the judgment
of the Land Department. Ehrhardt v. Hogaboom, 115 U. S.
69; Bates v. Railway Co., 1 Black, 208.
Defendants show no interest in the lands whatever. The
State of Mississippi could only acquire title by patent; and
as a patent has already issued no patent can ever be issued to
that State. Rogers Works v. Emigrant Co., 164 U. S. 570.
Mr. J. M. Moore, with whom Mr. Alexander Y. Scott, Mr.
Charles Scott and Mr. E. H. Woods were on the brief, for appellee:
Usucaption and prescription as generally asserted is not a
positive rule of international law, whereby one nation can
acquire territory of right belonging to another; said rule is
merely a rule of evidence aiding in the construction of treaties
or the ascertainment of the true and ancient boundary.
The Act of Congress admitting Mississippi into the Union,
made the middle channel of the Mississippi River the western
boundary of the State of Mississippi.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

In 1817, the date Mississippi was admitted into the Union,
the main channel of the Mississippi River ran west of Island 76.
Even
• .J in case the court should hold the western boundary
of Mississippi to be the eastern bank of the Mississippi River,
the boundary of Mississippi would extend to the eastern bank
of the main channel of said river, for navigation purposes
and hence to the western bank of Island 76, including said
Island within the territorial jurisdiction of Mississippi.
Arkansas never had such possession of Island 76 and never
exercised such jurisdiction over the territory of said island
as to warrant the invoking of the pretended doctrine of usucaption.
Mississippi never abandoned or relinquished its possession
so that the so-called doctrine of prescription could be invoked
against her; but on the contrary, she has held possession of
said island from 1817 to the present date; and Arkansas has
not claimed possession for a sufficient length of time. to obtain
title: under the pretended doctrine of usucaption and prescription.
The act of an executive officer, or officers within the State,
cannot transfer title to property within the territorial jurisdiction of the Nation or State or change or affect the boundary
of said State.
The Land Department of tha United States cannot change
the boundaries between two States by the mere ministerial
act of offering the land for sale,. erroneously as within one or
the other of the States.
The Sovereign right of taxation belonging to a State is not
defeated by the Federal Government patenting land within
its territorial jurisdiction to a citizen of the State. or of a foreign
State.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the cotirt.

This is a bill to quiet and remove a cloud upon the title to
land alleged to be in. Arkansas. The Circuit Court found that

MOORE v.: McGUIRE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the land was in Mississippi and dismissed the case for war~t
of jurisdiction. 142 Fed. Rep. 787' The judge made the
usual certificate, and an appeal was taken to this court.
The land in controversy is Island No. 76, formerly called
Chapeau Island, in the Mississippi River, and whether it is
part of Arkansas or of Mississippi depends, as both parties
agree, on what was the western boundary of Mississippi,
as established by the Act of Congress admitting that State to
the Union. Act of March 1, 1817, c. 23, 3 Stat. 348. In
that Act the State is bounded by a line "beginning on the
river Mississippi" and running around the State- "to the
Mississippi river, thence up the same to the beginning."
The plaintiffs contend that these words should be construed
to bound the State on the eastern bank of the river, while
the defendants maintain that they refer to the middle of the
main channel, as it then was. The chief dlifference is upon
the question of fact whether the main channel was to the east
or west of the island in 1817, but as the construction of the
statute also is in dispute, there is jurisdiction, and Joy v.
St. Louis, 201 U. S. 332, cited by the appellees, does not apply.
We shall assume for the purposes of decisi)n that the boundary is the middle of the main channel as it Was in 1817, and
address ourselves at once to the chief issue. Some facts are
clear. Arkansas was admitted to the Union by Act of Congress
of June 15, 1836, c. 100, 5 Stat. 50. This Act purported,
in terms, to bound the new State by the middle of the main
channel; that is, of course, as it then was, so that if at that
time the channel was on the Mississippi side, the act of the
Government imported an understanding that the boundary
of Mississippi went no farther. In 1847, 1848 and 1849. there
were purchases of a great part of the island at the United
States Land Office iii' Helena, Arkansas, and certificates and
patents were issued by the United States Government. The
titles thus created are not attacked, but are said to have been
lost by the Mississippi tax sale hereafter mentioned. The
small remnant- was conveyed by the United States to Arkansas

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

ten years later by a patent under the Swamp Land Act. Arkansas regularly taxed the island as far back as its books
are preserved, and presumably before. The above mentioned
greater part was forfeited for taxes to the State. Then the
State instituted a statutory proceeding to decide whether
the forfeiture was valid, and, if not, to collect the taxes by
a new sale. A new sale was ordered in due time, made, and
the deed approved by the court. The plaintiffs are purchasers from the grantor under this sale and also from grantees
of the residue patented under the Swamp Land Act to the
State.
Thus it is apparent that Arkansas has exercised dominion
over the island from 1847 down to recent times. The State
of Mississippi, on the other hand, only recently and since the
channel has changed, as we shall state, has attempted to tax it.
In 1891, it purported to sell the land for taxes, but the next
year the money paid was refunded to the purchaser, on the
certificate of the Governor and Attorney General of the State
that the land was "within the limits and the property of the
State of Arkansas." Later, in 1899, the State changed its
mind and sold the land for taxes again, the defendants getting
their title from this sale, but the possession of Arkansas and
the plaintiffs under it has remained. In view of these conditions there may be a doubt whether courts should go beyond
them in a private controversy, rather than leave it to the
State of Mississippi, if dissatisfied, to bring a suit in its own
name. See Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202; Foster v.
Neilson, 2 Pet. 253; Filhiol v. Torney, 194 U. S. 356; Bedel v.
Loomis, 11 N. H. 9; State v. Dunwell, 3 R. I. 127; State v.
Wagner, 61 Maine, 178, 184. But, however this may be,
the facts stated give us a starting point and raise a presumption
which is fortified by some further matters also beyond dispute.
The court below finds that "ever since 1839, and probably
two or three years before that time, up to the year 1881, the
main channel was east of the island in controversy, and since
.1881, up to the present time west .of the island;" the change

MOORE v. McGUIRE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

being due, it seems to the washing away of the old Napoleon
Island, ten miles or so above. There is no serious attempt
to cast doubt upon this finding and we deem it correct. In
connection with the finding it should be noticed that a Mississippi statute of 1839, repeated in the Code of 1857, p. 64, gives
as one boundary of Bolivar County, "thence down the main
channel of the said Mississippi," thus seemingly adopting
the channel as it then was, on the Mississippi side, as the true
boundary, and furnishing evidence from which we should
not lightly depart. In 1849, the island was surveyed and
platted as part of Arkansas, and the survey was certified by
William Pelham, the Surveyor of Public Lands in Arkansas.
The field notes state that the main channel is on the Mississippi
side. and that the inhabitants of the island vote and pay taxes
in Arkansas. They add that the channel or chute on the
other side is wide, but in low water very shallow, and that on
December 27, 1845, the surveyor got his skiff through with
difficulty. This is the most exact and 'authentic of the surveys produced on either side.
The presumption raised by the facts thus far recited is
confirmed by the evidence of an old steamboat captain, whose
personal experience went back to 1839. He testified that
he learned under his father and brother, and that they instructed him that the channel was on the east side in 1812.
He further stated that one of the first wood yards. established
on the Mississippi River for selling wood, to steamers was
just above No. 76 on the Mississippi side. Another witness,
who lived in the neighborhood iii 1839 and after, testified that
the channel was- considered to be on the east side, that the
boats passed directly in front of her house and that they could
not pass up the chute on the other side, except in very high
water. Having in mind the finding that we have quoted
we mention the last testimony only for the" indication that
it gives of a more or less permanent condition existing at the
time when the witness's memory, began.
As against this consensus of action on the part of the two

OCTOBER TERM, 190.6.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

States concerned and the United States, this presumption
from the establishment of the channel for a time running
back nearly or quite to the admission of. Arkansas, and this
testimony from memory and tradition, the chief reliance of
the defendants is upon certain maps and the statement in a
letter to which we shall refer. The first and most important
of the maps is one of a "Reconnoissance of the Mississippi
and Ohio Rivers," made during the months of October, November and December, 1821, by two captains and a lieutenant
of engineers under the direction of the board of engineers.
This exhibits Chapeau Island with a dry sand bar on the
Mississippi side, and indicates by dots that the channel is
to the west. If the distances are accurate the sand bar at
the top approaches pretty near to Mississippi; but in view
of the small scale of the map and the absence of measurements
'there is no sufficient warrant for assuming that the distances
are.-, accurate. As to the indication of the channel, it would
not be, surprising, considering the short time during which
the reconnoitre extended, if it had been determined, by nothing more than the visible width. But in any event it hardly
would do more than confirm a conjecture suggested by, other
sources which we shall mention, that in some years the western
passage was as good as or better than the more permanent one
to the east.
The next map is one certified January 22, 1829, of a survey
in February, 1827, showing the Arkansas shore sectionized and
the island sketched in, with distances indicated at some points,
but notiSectionized. This map cannot be said to help either
side. except 'by speculation of an uncertain sort. The next
map, however, is more definite. It isa, map of Township
21, Range 8 west, Mississippi, said to be projected from field
notes of Benjamin Griffin, also produced, made in January
and February, 1830. Here the island is divided up as part
of .the township, although not sectionized under the 'United
States statutes, and there are other slight indications that
the draughtsman regarded the island as belonging to Mis-

MOORE v. McGUIRE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sissippi. This map is more or less counteracted by another
map of the same township signed by Benjamin Griffin, which
does not sectionize the island and indicates, if it indicates
anything about it, that the channel is on the east side. The
field notes in two places speak of "where the west boundary
comes to the river," and they give-the width of the east channel
at the top as 2,920 feet. The defendants contend that the
first mentioned of*these two maps is the completed work, but
that hardly can be said to be proved.
In addition to these maps there is some correspondence, etc.,
from which it appears that the island was selected by Mississippi under the Swamp Land Act, and that after, the selection had been approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
but before any patent had issued, the island was sold by the
State in 1854 to one Ford. In 1859, Ford wrote to the Governor of Mississippi complaining that Arkansas claimed jurisdiction and that the island had been disposed of as public
domain' within the limits of that State, asking the Governor
to c1aim a patent from Washington and enclosing, a letter to
the writer, Ford, from one Downing, who is said to have been
Surveyor General of Mississippi at an earlier date. This letter
is much relied upon. It purports to answer an inquiry as to
the island, refers to the survey :of 1830 or 1831 and says that
at that time, and for some years after, the Island Chute, as
it was called, was quite narrow, not over one hundred yards
wide about opposite the middle of the island, and that at that
time the writer never heard Qf a steamboat going up or down
•on the east side. The main river then passed on the west side.
The writer adds that he thinks it was in 1835 that he spent
some time in examining the land in T. 21, R. 8 W., and that
the Island Chute' was quite narrow then.
Presumably this letter was. written with knowledge of
Ford's object, andit hardly can be said tQ stand on the footing
of' disinterested tradition. Whether it was admissible or not
we need not consider. It was forwarded to the Department,
of the; Jnteriaor: by 'the- Governor with Ford's claim.
The

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Commissioner answered the letter, expressing an opinion
favorable to Mississippi from inspection of the plats and
Downing's statement, and enclosing a similar opinion of a
former Commissioner in 1855, also from inspection of the plats.
Both letters, however, called for evidence of the condition in
1817, and the later one specifically asked for an affidavit from
Downing and another disinterested witness. It was assumed
that the land, or most of it, was disposed of, and that the
question would be of reimbursement. The affidavits asked
for seem not to have been furnished, and nothing more appears
to have been done until June 27, 1896. At that date another
letter from the Acting Commissioner speaks of the land as
having been mostly disposed of before the Swamp Land Act
and therefore not granted by it, and suggests the submission of
a list containing the 51 acres hot so disposed.of for approval
to Mississippi, giving the Governor sixty days for action.
Nothing further was done.
'This evidence appears to us insufficient to meet the established facts to which we have referred. It must be admitted to raise a doubt whether the channel has not varied
from time to time before 'the great changes about 1881. This
doubt is enhanced by other sources of information not put in
evidence but partially referred to by the plaintiffs at the argument. A map in Samuel Cumming's Western Navigator,
Philadelphia, 1822, Vol. 1, 'indicates the channel on the Arkansas side, and this is confirmed by the text. Vol. 2, p. 44.
In the Navigator, Zadok Cramer., published for a number of
years at Pittsburgh for the information of pilots, in 1806 the
channel is said .to be good on both sides. In 1808 and 1811
it is said that the left (east) side is the best in low water. In
1814, 1817 and 1818, on the other hand, the best channel
is said to be on the right side at all stages. . We refer to all
the years that we have seen. In view of thi statement for
the very year when Mississippi was admitted, it is impossible
not to hesitate, but in Cumming's Western .Pilot for 1833 we
read "channel either side: the right is nearest, and the left

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 225
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

is probably rather deepest," and this seems to us to have
been true for the whole time. Upon the whole evidence we
are compelled to decide that the plaintiffs have made out their
case.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN agrees with the Circuit Court as to
both the facts and the law, and therefore dissents.

MR.

JUSTICE PiCKHAM

took no part in the decision.

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING AND DEVELOPING
COMPANY v. HANLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR.
THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO.
No. 206.

Argued February 1, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

In a suit in the Circuit.Court of the-United States where diverse citizenship
exists, if the real question is the controlling effect of res judicata of a
decree rendered between the parties in another suit, and whether the
court rendering it had jurisdiction so to do and those questions are decided upon principles of general law, the case is not one involving the
construction and application of the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and a direct appeal does not lie to this court under § 5 of the
Court of Appeals Act of 1891,29 Stat. 492; nor can the decision appealed
from be converted into one involving the construction and application
of the Constitution by averring argumentatively that to give such effect
to the former adjudication amounts to depriving a party of due process
of law.
THE defendant in error, complainant below, brought suit
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Idaho against the Empire State-Idaho Mining and Developing
Company and the Federal Mining and Smelting Company,
appellants herein. The bill filed July 27, 1904;-- alleged di%oI7. cc%\--I"5

