UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.

105

Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 188.

Argued January 28, 29, 1907.-Decided March 11. 1907.

The rule that prior negotiations are merged in the contract is general in
its nature and does not preclude reference to letters between the parties
prior to the execution of a contract in order to determine whether from
the language used in the contract the parties intended stipulated deductions for delay as a penalty or as liquidated damages.
Where in response to Government advertisements the same party submits
different bids, the largest price being for the shortest time of delivery,
the acceptance of the bid for the shorter time is evidence that the element of time is of essence, and a stipulated deduction of an amount per
day equivalent to the difference between the short and long time for
delivery is to be construed as liquidated' damages for whatever delay
occurs in the delivery, and not as a penalty, although the word penalty
may have been used in some portions of the contract.
41 C. Cl. 19, reversed.

THE Bethlehem Steel Company recovered a judgment in
the Court of Claims (41 C. Cl. 19) for the sum of $21,000
against the appellant, from which judgment the United States
has appealed to this court.

The company filed its petition in the Court of Claims seeking to recover a balance which it alleged was due from the

United States on a contract, which had been entered into by
the company with Brigadier General Flagler, Chief of Ordnance,
in behalf of. and for the United States, for the construction of
certain gun carriages, which the company alleged had been
constructed according to the contract and for which the
Government had failed to pay the full amount which became
due upon its performance.
The facts were found by the Couft f Claims, from which
it appears that the Government on the eighth day of March,
1898, advertised for proposals for the construction of six
disappearing gun carriages, and the specifications accompany-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

ihg the advertisement set forth the character and extent of
the work. The claimant, in response to the advertisement,
submitted four distinct sealed proposals to the War Department for the construction of such carriages. By the first
proposal the company agreed to furnish five or more gun
carriages for the sum of $31,000 each, the first to be delivered
!,within six months of the date of contract, to be followed by
two carriages every three months thereafter. By the second
proposal the company offered to furnish the same number for
the sum, of $33,000 each, the first to be delivered 'within five
months from date of contract, to be followed at the rate of one
carriage every month thereafter. By the third proposal the
offer was to furnish the same number for the sum of $35,000
each, the first to be delivered within four months, and the
second within five months of date of contract; the remaining
carriages to follow at the rate of three carriages every two
months thereafter. By the fourth proposal the offer was to
furnish the same number for the sum of $36,000 each, the first
to be delivered in four months, the second in five months, and
the remaining carriages at the rate of two carriages every
month thereafter.
These alternative proposals were made in consequence of a
lette written the company by the Chief of Ordnance, dated
March 11, 1899, of which the following is a copy:
"Office of the Chief of Ordnance,
"United States Army,
"Washington, March 11, 1898.
"Gentlemen: It is suggested that in making bids for carriages you estimate, first on the price of carriages under the
supposition that. the woirks will run for twenty-four
hours;
second, that later, if it .be found advantageous, the ordinary
working hours may be -observed. It is considered best that
bids should be made for carriages by numbers, as, for instance,
so much for five 8-inch carriages, for six, eight, etc. Therefore
it is considered judicious that bids should be made for rapid

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM 'STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

107

Statement of the Case.

delivery of a certain number of carriages or for less rapid
delivery of the same. It should be understood, however, that
time will be considered very important.
"Respectfully,
D. W. FLAGLER,
"Brig. Gen., Chief of Ordnance."
The following are the further findings of the Court of Claims:
"IV. The defendants, through the War Department, accepted proposal No. 4 of the claimant company.
"V. In drawing up the contract between the United States
and' the claimant company a slight modification of proposal
No. 4 was decided upon, which was as follows:
"Whereas in proposal No. 4 claimant company was to deliver five or more carriages, the first in four months, the second
in five months, and the remaining ones to follow at the rateof two carriages per month. In drawing up the contract this
was changed so as to provide for the delivery of one carriage
in four months (as proposed) and five carriages in six months
from the date of contract, thus reducing the time of delivery
of all the carriages from seven to six months, this reduction
of the total delivery being offset by the increased latitude
given claimant company as to intermediate deliveries.
"VI. On April 4, 1898, the Ordnance Department transmitted a form of contract of even date to the claimant company for execution and return by letter, as follows:
"'Office of the Chief of Ordnance,
" 'United States Army,
"'Washington, April 4, 1898.
"'The Bethlehem Iron Co., South Bethlehem, Pa.
" 'Gentlemen: I am instructed by the Chief of Ordnance to
transmit herewith contract, in quintuplicate, dated the 4th
instant, for six 12-inch disappearing gun carriages, model
1896, for execution and return to this office.
Respectfully,
R. BIRNIE,
" 'Capt., Ord. Dept., U. S. A.'

.108

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

"To this letter the claimant company made reply on April 5,
1898:
"'The Bethlehem Iron Company,
"'South Bethlehem, Pa., April 5, 1898.
"'Chief of Ordnance, U. S. A.,
"'War Department, Washington, D. C.
"'Sir: We have examined the contract, forms, covering six
disappearing gun carriages, model 1896, for 12-inch B. L. rifles,
for which we submitted proposals under the date 19th ultimo,
and write to call your attention to the third clause, relating to
our liability on account of any patent rights granted by the
United States, is not struck out, as has been done in the case
of previous contracts for carriages.
"'We also note that the penalty mentioned in the contract for each day of delay in delivery of each carriage is $75
instead of $10, as is stipulated in the instructions to bidders
and specifications.
" 'We made our bid under the understanding that the
penalty for non-delivery was to be $10 per day, and we respectfully request that the contract forms may be modified
in accordance with this understanding.
"'We return herewith the contract forms, and remain,
"'Respectfully,
"'TuE BETHLEHEM IRON COMPANY,
".

'R.

W. DAVENPORT,

"'Second Vice President.'
"Whereupon the claimant company was informed by the
Chief of Ordnance, by letter of April 9, 1898, as follows:
"'Office of the Chief of Ordnance,
"'United States Army,
"'Washington, April 9, 1898.
"'The Bethlehem Iron Company,
"'South Bethlehemrn, Pa.
"'Gentlemen: In reply to your letter of April 5, 1898, returning contract forms, I have the honor to inform you that

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

109

Statement of the. Case.

your request in regard to your liability on account of patent
rights has been complied with and the third paragraph has been
stricken out.
"'In regard to the penalty for delay in delivery being $75
per day instead of $10 per day, I have to state that the former
amount is the average difference in time of delivery between
your price recently bid for slow delivery of these carriages and
the price under the accepted bid- The department feels it to
be just that this average difference should be the prescribed
penalty; but, if you should prefer, instead of taking the average
difference, that the exact difference per day for each particular
carriage should be prescribed, the forms will be altered accordingly.
"'The contracts are returned, hoping this explanation will
be satisfactory.

"'Respectfully,

D. W. FLAGLPR,
"'BrigadierGeneral,Chief of Ordnance.'

"Thereafter it was found that an error, had been made, in
the above computation, in that the $75 per day deduction provided for should have been $35 instead, and the claimant
company was duly informed .of this by letter dated April 16,
1898, which is as follows:
"'Office of the Chief of Ordnance,
"'United States Army,
"'Washington April 16, 1896.
"'The Bethlehem Iron Company,
"'Suth Bethlehem, Pa.
"'(Through the Inspector of Ordnance, U. S. A.)
"'Gentlemen:
Referring to my letter, No. 21985, of the
9th instant, I would invite your attention to the fact that an
error was made in the computation in the amount of the deduction in price per day of delay in delivery of 12-inch disappearing carriages, L. F., model of 1896, recently ordered
from you, and to inform you that the contract-should read that
such deduction in price should be $35 per day of delay - in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the. Case.

205 U. S.

delivery, in accordance with principle stated in my abovementioned letter.
D. W. FLAGLER,
",!Respectfully,
"'Brigadier General, Chief of Ordnance.'
"Before signing the contract in its present form the claimant company, by communication on April 20, 1898, requested
that the.same should be modified in some respects, which request is contained in the following comnunication:
"'The Bethlehem Iron Company,
"'South Bethlehem, Pa., April 20, 1898.
'O'Chief of Ordnance, U. S. A.,
" 'War Department, Washington, D. C.
to the forms of contract for six 12-inch
Referring
"'Sir:
disappearing gun carriages, carrying the date of April 4, 1898,
which have recently been received, but not yet executed, and
to the conversation which the writer had with you on Thursday last, we beg to state that on further carefully considering
the possibilities of the case we do not believe that we will be
able to deliver the six carriages within six months, as called
for by the proposed contract. We will, however, undertake
to complete, in accordance -with our bid, the delivery of the
first carriage in four months, the gecond within five months,
and the remaining four at the rate of two per month, thus
making the total time of delivery of the six carriages seven
instead of six months, it being understood that no penalty
will be charged against us for the one month of delay which
will thus accrue on the fifth and sixth carriages.
By agreeing to this proposition the department will be
the gainer, in that the second carriage will be due at the end
of the fifth month, while, as the contract now reads, it would
not be due until the end of the sixth month.
"'With the above understanding confirmed, we will execute
the colitract as it now stands, except, as to the amount of
penalty for delay in delivery, which, in accordance with your
letter of April 16, will be $35 insfead of $75 per day.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

111

Statendnt of the Case,

"'We return the contract forms in order that the change
as regards penalty may be made.
"'We
remain, respectfully,
"'THE

BETHLEHEM, IRON COMPANY,

"'R. W.

DAVENPORT,
"

'Second Vice President.'

"To which letter the following reply was made:
"'Office of the Chief of Ordnance,
"'United States Army,
"'Washington, April 25, 1898.
"''The Bethlehem Iron Qompany,
"'South Bethlehem, Pa.
"'(Through Inspector of Ordnance,' U. S. A.)
"'Gentlemen : In reply to your letter of the 20th instant,
I have the honor to inform you that the schedule of deliveries
of 12-inch disappearing carriages contained therein will, in
view of the earlier resulting delivery of the second carriage,
be accepted in lieu of the schedule in the contract, without
emforcement of penalties which would result from the change
of schedule.
"'The amount of the penalty for delay indelivery is changed
from $75 to $35 per day in accordance with my letter of the
16th instant, and the cohtract forms are returned herewith
for execution.
"'Respectfully,
D. W. FLAGLER,
"'Brigadier General, Chief of Ordnance.'
"The above correction was therefore made in the said contract, and the same was duly signed and executed by the
claimant company and immediately tiansmitted to the War
Department. A copy of said contract is annexed to and
made part of the petition."
The following are the material portions of the contract:
" Under advertisement dated
, 189, the said parties
of the first part do hereby contract and engage with the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205'U. S.

United States to manufacture, for the Ordnance Department,
U. S. Army, in accordance with said instructions to bidders
as amended, specifications and drawings, all of which are
hereto attached and form part of this contract.
"Six (6) disappearing gun carriages, model 1896, for 12-inch
B. L. rifles, drawings dated April 27 and June 19, 1896 (latest
revision July 14 and December 30, 1897), at thirty-six thousand dollars ($36,000)-each, free on board cars at South Bethlehem, Pa.
"The first carriage to be delivered within four (4) months
from date of this contract, and the remaining five (5) carriages
within six (6) months from date of this contract.
"It is further stipulated and agreed that the party of the
first part will furnish such limited additional number of these
carriages, at the price and rate of delivery stated, as the party
of the second part may desire, under available appropriations.
"It is further stipulated and agreed that if any carriage
herein contracted for is not delivered by the party 'of the first
part at the times specified herein, there will be deducted, in
the discretion of the Chief of Ordnance, thirty-five ($35)
dollars per day from the price to be paid therefor for each day
of delay in delivery of each carriage, respectively. But if at
any time the Chief of Ordnance shall decidethat continuous
and great delay or other serious default 'has occurred, he may,
to protect the interests of the United States, apply the provisions of the 5th section of the regular contract form and
waive further per diem deduction in pride.
"All penalties incurred under this contract shall be offset
against any payments falling due to the said party of the first
part,
"The work must pass the required inspection at all stages of
its progress, and be approved by the officers of the Ordnance
Department before being accepted and paid for by the United
States.
"(Signed by the parties.)

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

(

113

Statement of the Case.

"VII. Thereupon the Bethlehem Iron Company-proceeded
to manufacture the said gun carriagesp and ultimately delivered them to the.United States, and they were accepted by
the latter. The following table gives, first, the date fixed
by the said contract for the delivery of each one of said carriages; second, the date of its delivery, and, third, the extent
of the delay in its delivery.
Number
of
riage.

16
17
18
19
20
21

Date for delivery fixed by
cnr-

August 4, 1898............
September 4, 1898 .........
October 4, 1898 ...........
October 4, 1898...........
November 4, 1898 .........
November 4, 1898 .........

ual)
Date of delivery (actuna.dy

Extent of
delay.

January 28, 1899 ....... .177 da ,.
t183
March 6, 1899 ........
April 13, 1899 .........
191
March 18, 1899 ........
165 "
April 29, 1899 .........
i76 "
May 27, 1899 ..........
204 "

Total delay..............................

1,096 days.

"Of the above days of delay, which amounted in the aggregate to 1,096 days, the United States, through the Chief of its
Bureau of Ordnance, decided that the Bethlehem Iron Company was responsible for delays to the extent of 100 days
upon eachi of the six disappearing gun carriages, or 600 days
in all, but did not charge said company with the balance of
said days, or 496 days in all; which, at the stipulated sum of.
deduction at $35 per day for each day. of delay in the delivery
of each gun carriage, amounted to the sum of $21,000, which
sum was deducted from the payments made the claimant
company, and the balance, or the sum of $195,000, was paid
over to the claimant company, who receipted for said payment under protest.
"VIII. The court finds as the ultimate fact that the defendants' officers hindered and delayed the claimant. in the
performance of the work by changes in the plans of'construction, as alleged in the petition, and in various other ways; but
the court also finds that the claimant contributed to the delay
VOL CCV-S

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

205 U. S.

in the completion of the work by being insufficiently equipped
and prepared to complete it within the time prescribed in the
contract and by taking other work to the exclusion of that
referred to in these findings; and the court further finds that
the transactions in the process of manufacture were so involved and intermerged that it is impossible, on the evidence
produced, for the court to ascertain and determine whether'
the defendants should be charged with a greater proportion
of the delays set forth in the foregoing table in Finding VII
than those assumed by the defendants' officers, to wit, 496
days out of the total amount of delays, to wit, 1,096 days.
"It does not appear that the defendants were ready to use
the gun carriages hereinbefore described at the time when
they were finally delivered by the claimant; nor does it appear
that they could have used them on their fortifications if they
had been delivered at an earlier day. Nor does it appear
that thb defendants suffered any injury or damage whatever
.bythe delay of the claimant in delivering the said gun carriages
hereinbefore set forth.
"Conclusion of law.
"Upon the foregoing findings of fact the court decides, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimant recover judgment in the
sum of twenty-one thousand dollars ($21,000)."
The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Van Oridel, with whom Mr. Franklin W. Collins was on the'
brief, for appellant:
Time was of the essence of the contract. Time may be of
the-,essence of a contract for the sale of property. Taylor v.
Longworth, 14 Pet. 172; Jones v. United States, 96 U. S. 24,
Secombe v. Steel, 20 How. 94-104; Brown. V. Guaranty Trust
Co., 128 U. S. 403. In this case it was an all-important consideration, was so represented in the advertisements and the
instructions to bidders, and. was so treated by the appellee in
its proposals and in the contract itself.

UNITED,STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

115

Argument for Appellant.

The per diem deductions were not penalties, and: though
referred to as such in the contract neither the Government
nor the court in its interpretation of the contract is to
be concluded by the use of the technical term "penalty."
Davis and Davidson v. United States, 17 C. Cl. 201; cited
with approval in Halladay v. United States, 35 C. Cl. 453;
also in Edgar Thompson Works v. United States, 34 C. Cl.
218.
Courts have frequently held the sum stipulated
to be paid
on breach of the agreement to be, from the nature of the case,
a penalty, notwithstanding the strongest language showing
the intention of the parties to be that it should be paid in
full as liquidated damages. Boys v. Ancell, 5 Bing. (N. Car.)
391; Davies v. Penton, 6 B. & C. 216; Horner v. Flintoff, 9
M. & W. 678; Reindel v. Shell, 4 C. B. (N. S.) 97.
On the other hand, cases are numerous in which the parties
have used the term "penalty" Which seems on its face to import a forfeiture rather than a valuation of damage, yet the
courts have held that the stipulated sum was, from the very
nature of the case, to be considered as liquidated damages and
recoverable in full. Sainter v. Ferguson, 7 C. B. 716; Leighton
v. Wales, 3 M. & W. 545; Sparrow v. Paris, 7 H. & N.
594.
On the other hand, a contract for a "penalty" may appear
from the context to be a contract for "liquidated damages,"
and may be so treated. Page on Contracts, 1905, ยง 1172;
Robinson v. Aid Society, 68 N. J. L. 723; Illinois Central Ry.
v. Cabinet Co., 104 Tennessee, 568; Clark v. Barnard, 108
U. S. 436; Jacqua v. Heddington, 114 Indiana, 309.
Where the contract calls for a per diem deduction as the
measure of injury, in the event of the occurrence of a specified
contingency, and the sum agreed upon does not appear unreasonable upon the face of the contract, and the actual damages are impossible of ascertainment, and no fraud or duress
has been practiced to induce either party to enter into the
contract, and the sources of information are open alike to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

205 U. S.

both parties, the court should hold that the sum stipulated is
the agreed measure of damages.
Mr. James H. Hayden for appellee:
The contract in suit is free from ambiguity and the parties are bound by it. Resort cannQt he had to their transactions which occurred while the contract was in fieri, for the
purpose of showing that they intended something different
from the import of the language employed in the instrument.
Simpson v., United States, 172 U. S. 372, 379; Brawley v.
United States, 96 U. S. .168, 173; Van Buren v. Digges, 11 How.
461, 466; Harvey v. United States, 8 C. Cl. 501, 506, 508.
If they .were relevant matter, the negotiations of the parties, which preceded the execution of the contract, would not
sustain the contention of the United States, to the effect that
the stipulation concerning penalty was intended to provide
for a deduction, as liquidated damages, or something else.
A review of the preliminary correspondence which passed
between the Chief of Ordnance and the Bethlehem Company
shows that the parties understood what they were doing when
they signed the contract, and that the penal clause providing
in terms for the imposition of penalty in case of the contractor's
default was framed by the Chief of Ordnance, exactly as he
wished it to be framed. The contract was drawn by him, not
by the claimant. The liability to be incurred by the contractor for delay in delivering the carriages was referrea1 to by
the Chief of Ordnance as penalty in letters which he directed
to the claimant on April 9, 1898, and April 25, 1898, and was
denominated penalty by the Bethlehem Company in its letters,
written to the Chief of Ordnance on April 5, 1898, and April 20,
1898. There is nothing to indicate that-the parties attempted
to ascertain what loss the Government would suffer from delay,
or that they fixed by agreement the measure of damages to be
recovered in case of the company's default.
The contract is to be interpreted as one which provided
for a forfeiture or penalty, in case of the contractor's default.

,UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that the delay, caused by both parties, did not
occasion actual damage and that a deduction made as liquidated damages, at the arbitrary rate of $35 per diem on each
carriage, would be extortionate and lead to an unjust result,
furnish sufficient reasons to sustain the judgment.
Time was not 'of -the essence of the -contract (Taylor v.
Longworth, 14 Pet. 172, 174; Jones v. United States, 96'U. S.
24; Secombe v. Steele, 20 How. 94, 104 distinguished), as in
those cases it was made so by express stipulation or by implication from the nature of the property and the avowed
objects of the seller and purchaser. Aside from naming a
period within which the gun carriages should be delivered, the
contract in suit contains nothing to indicate that time was of
the essence. The penal clause itself shows that the parties
contemplated the possibility of delays occasioned by acts of
one or both of them. Neither can it be implied from the
nature of the property that time was of the essence. The
conduct of the parties and the situation of the United States
shows that it was not. The progress of the work was hindered
by changes ordered by the Chief of Ordnance. The carriages
were accepted without complaint long after the date fixed by
contract for their delivery. The United States was not ready
to make use of them when delivered. It could not have made
use of them had they been delivered sooner. It would simply
have been put to the expense of storing and caring for them.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is objected on the part of the company that as the contract in question is, as asserted, plain and unambiguous in its
terms, no reference can be made to other evidence or to documents which do not form part of the contract. The general
rule that prior negotiations are merged in the terms of a written
contract between the parties is referred to, and it is insisted
that under that rule the various letters passing between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

parties prior to the execution of the contract are not admissible.
The rule that prior neg 9 tiations are merged in thecontract
is general in its nature, and, we think, does not preclude reference to letters between the parties priorto the execution of the
contract in this case. The language employed in this contract for a deduction, in the discretion of the Chief of Ordnance, of $35 per day from. the price to be paid for each day
of delay in the delivery of each gun carriage, respectively,
taken in connection with the subject-matter of the contract,
leaves room for the construction 6f that language in order to
determine which was intended, a penalty or liquidated damages. Whilc it is claimed that there is really no doubt as to
the l)roper construction of the contract' even if the contract
alone is to be considered, ye we think that much light is given
as to the true meaning of language that is not wholly free from
doubt by a consideration of th& correspondence between the
parties before the final execution of the contract itself. Under
such circumstances' we think it never has been held that recourse could not be had to the facts surrounding the case and
to the prior negotiations for the purpose of determining the
correct construction of the language of the contract. Simpson
v.' United States, 199 U..S, 397-399. In Brawley v. United
States, 96 U. S. 168-173, the court says: "Previous and contemporaneous transactions may be all very properly taken into
consideration to ascertain the subject-matter of a contract
and the sense in which the parties may have used particular
terms."
It is not for the purpose of making a contract for the parties,
but to understand what contract was actually made, that in
cases of doubt as to the meaning of language "actually used
prior negotiations may sometimes be referred to.
There has in almost innumerable instances been a question
as to the meaning of language used in that part of a contract
which related to the payment of damages for its non-fulfillment,
whether rthe provision therein made was one for liquidated

UNITED STATES v: BETHLEHEM
205 U. S.

STEEL CO.

119

Opinin -of the Court.

damages or, whether it meant a penalty simply, the damages
to be proved up.to the amount of the penalty. This contract
might be considered as being one of that class where .a doubt
might be claimed, .if
nothing but the contract were examined.
The courts at one time seemed to be quite strong in their views
and would scarcely admit"that' there ever was a valid contract
providing for liquidated damages. Their tendency was to
,construe the language as a penalty, so that nothing but the
actual damages sustained by the party aggrieved could be
recovered. Subsequently the courts became more tolerant of
such provisions, and have now become strongly inclined to
allow parties to make their own contracts, and to carry out
their intentions, even when it would result in.
the recovery of
an amount stated as liquidated damages- upon proof of the.
violation of the contract, and without proof of the damages
actually sustained. This whole subject is reviewed in Sun
Printing & Publishing Association v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642,
669, where a large number of authorities upon this subject are
referred to. The principle decided in that case is much like
the contention of the Government herein. The question
always is,, what did the parties intend by the language used?
When such intention is ascertained it is ordinarily the ditty,
of the court to carry it out. See also Clement v. Cash, 21
N. -Y.253, 257; Little v. Banks, 85 N. Y. 258, 266.
The Government at the time of the execution of this contract (which was dated April 4, 1898) was making preparation
for the expected war with Spain, which was imminent, and
which was declared by Congress a few days thereafter. The
Government was evidently desirous of obtaining the construction of these gun carriages as early as it was reasonably
possible, and it was prepared to pay an increased pride for
speed. The 'acceptance of the proposal at the highest price
for the delivery'of the carriages in the shortest time is also
evidence of. the importance with which the Government
officers regardd the element of speed. There can be no doubt
as to its importance in their opinion, or that such opinion was

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U, S.

communicated to- the company. In the light of this fact an
examination of the language of the contract itself upon the
question of deductions for delay in delivery renders its meaning quite plain. It is true that the word "penalty" is used
in -some portions of the contrapt, although in the clause providing for the $35 per day deduction that word is not used,
nor are the words "liquidated damages" to be found therein.
The word "penalty" is- used in the correspondence, even by
the officers of the Government, but we think it is evident that
the word was not used in the contract nor in the correspondence
as, indicative of the technical and legal difference between
penalty and liquidated damages. It was used simply to provide that the amount named might be deducted if there were
a delay in delivery. Either expression is not always conclusive
as to the meaning of the parlies.' Little v. Banks, 85 N. Y.,
supra; Ward v. Hudson River Building Co., 125 N. Y. 230.
What was meant by the use of the language in question in
this case is rendered, as we think, still more certain by the
manner in which the $35 per day was arrived at, as stated in
the letters of the officers representing the Government, which
were examined and criticised by the company before the signing of the contract. The correspondence shows that the sum
was arrived at by figuring the average difference in time of
delivery between the price bid for slow delivery of the carriages and the price under the accepted bid, the department
saying "that this average difference should be the prescribed
penalty."
Having this question before them and the amount stated
arrived at in the manner known to both parties, we think it
appears from the contract and the correspondence that it was
the intention of the parties that this amount should be regarded as liquidatd damages, and not technically as a penalty.
This view is also strengthened when. we recognize the great
difficulty of proving damage in a case like this, regard being
had to all the circumstances heretofore referred to. It would
have been very unusual to allow the company to obtain the

'UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

121

(.

contract for the construction of these carriages, and yet to
place it under no liability to fulfill it as to time of delivery,
specially agreed upon, other than to pay only those actual
damages (not exceeding $35 per day) that might be proved
were naturally and proximately caused by the failure to deliver. The provision under such circumstances would be of
no real value. The circumstances were such that it would be
almost necessarily impossible to show what damages (if any)
might or naturally would result from a failure to fulfill the
contract. The fact that not very long after the contract had
been signed and the war with Spain was near its end, the importance of time as an element largely disappeared, and that
practically no damage accrued to the Government on account
of the failure of the company to deliver, cannot affect the
meaning of this clause as used in the contract nor render its
language substantially worthless, for any purpose of security
for the proper performance of the contract as to time of delivery.
The amount is not so extraordinarily disproportionate to the
damage which might result from the failure to deliver the
carriages, as to show that the parties must have intended a
penalty and could not have meant liquidated dam)ges. If
the contract were construed as contended for by the company,
it would receive (as events have turned out) the highest price
for the longest time in which to deliver, which could not have
been contemplated by either party. This would result from
the finding that no damages in fact flowed from the failure
to deliver on time.
The eighth finding of the Court of Claims is in effect that the
failure to deliver was caused in part by both parties; that the
total number of days failure was 1,096 days, of which 496 were
caused by the defendant's officers, and it does not mean that
the court regarded itself as bound by the decision of the Chief
of Ordnance as to the'number of days that the claimant or the
Government delayed the delivery. It found the number of
days as stated, and that-the transactions were so involved that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

205 U. S.

whether the defendant should be charged with a greater
proportion of the delays than set forth in the finding, the court
could not decide on the evidence produced.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be reversed and
the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.
Rerersed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. SLAGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME C()TRT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON..
No. 152.

Argued January 11. 1907.-Devided March 11, 1907.

A judgment on demurrer is as conclusive as one rendered upon proof.
The question as to the-effect of a judgment as res judicata when pleaded
in bar of another action is its legal identity with the judgment sought in
the second action, and, as a general rule, its extent as a bar is not only
what was pleaded or litigated, but what could have been pleaded or
litigated.
Where a plaintiff could have pleaded rights to property in addition to those
pleaded, he and his grantees are bound by that election, and after an
adverse judgment cannot again assert title to the same property against
the same parties under a different source of title.
A state statute of limitations does not commence to run against a government patentee until after the patent has been issued to him.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. James B. Kerr was
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error in this case and in No. 153
argued simultaneously herewith:'
The Spokane, company in 1886 filed proof of its incorporation as required by the act, and in 1886 and 1887 built its
railway while the lands were public lands of the United States
free from any claim of record. While the defendant in error
had lived on the lands since 1883, he had never entered or
attempted to enter them as a homestead, though they were
surveyed and were subject to entry. Hewitt v. Schultz,
I See p. 134, post.

