DELAMATER v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

bELAMATER v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. .149. Argued January 10, 11, 1907.-Decided March 11, 1907.

The general power of the States to control and regulate, within their borders,
the business of dealing in, or soliciting orders for, the purchase of intoxicating liquors is beyond question.
The purpose of the Wilson act, 26 Stat. 713, as a regulation of interstate
commerce was to allow the States to exert ampler power as to .intoxicating
liquors when the subject of such commerce than could have been exercised before the enactment of that statute, which enabled the States
to extend their authority as to such liquor shipped from other States
before it became commingled with the mass of other property in the
State by a sale in the original package.
Since the enactment of the Wilson law, which expressly provides that intoxicating liquors coming into a State should be as completely under
control of the State as though manufactured therein, the owner of intoxicating liquor in one State cannot, under the commerce clause of the
Constitution, go himself or send his agent into another State and, in defiance of its laws, carry on the business of soliciting proposals for the
purchase of such liquors.
Although a State may not forbid a resident therein from ordering for his
own use intoxicating liquor from another State it may forbid the carrying on within its borders of the business of. soliciting orders for such
liquor although such orders may only contemplate a contract resulting
from final acceptance in another State. Vance v. W. A. Vandercook
Co., 170 U. S. 438, distinguished.
The law of South Dakota imposing an annual license charged on travelling
salesmen selling, offering for sale, or soliciting orders for intoxicating
liquors in quantities of less than five gallons is not unconstitutional
because repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States'
The highest court of South Dakota having 'held that the -act imposing a
license on travelling salesmen soliciting orders for intoxicating liquors
is a police regulation and not a taxing act, it is within the purview of,
and riot in conflict with, the Wilson act. Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw,
198 U. S. 17, followed.
104 N. W. Rep. 539, affirrhed.

THE faqts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

Air. Herbert Jazkson for plaintiff in error:

Liquor is a legitimate subject of interstate commerce.
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 110; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.
545; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, 414; Bowman v. Railway
Co., 125 U. S. 465, and the statute complained of is a direct
interference with interstate commerce. Bowman v. Chicago
& N. W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465-524; Rhodes v. State of Iowa,'
170 U. S. 412-438. And see American Express Co. V. Iowa,
196 U. S. 133, 146, holding that liquor shipped C. O. .D. from
one State to another was interstate commerce; that the title
of the goods passed when same was delivered to the carrier,
and that any interference by the state authorities with the
merchandise was illegal, unless the goods were offered for
resale.
The act of the legislature of the State of South Dakota
was not a regulation in the interest of the morals of the community-its only purpose being to license and raise revenue.
It is not a police regulation.
The case does not come withi'n the rule laid down in Austin V. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343, 388.
Mr. S. M. Howard and Mr. Aubrey Lawrence, with whom
Mr. Philo Hall, Attorney General of the State of South Dakota, was on the brief, for, defendant in error:
The law is a license law and not a tax law,
The mere fact that a law of this character results in bringing a certain revenue to the State does not n.cessarily stamp
such an act as a revenue or tax law; the real test is as to whether
or not the purpose of the act was to secure revenue or regulate
and control. 17 Ency. of Law, 2d ed., p. 223, and citations;
21 Ency. of Law, 2d ed., pp. 774, 775.
The interpretation of the South Dakota courts upon the
act, which will be considered by this court, is to the same
effect. State v. Beuchler, 10 S. Dak. 156.
The title of the act is 'An act to provide for the licensing,
restricting and regulation of the manufacture and sale of

DELAMATER v. SOUTHI DAKOTA.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

spirituous and intoxicating liquors." Session Acts, South
Dakota, 1901, 246.
The law is one within the police powers of the State, and
thus subject to different rules than laws concerning the ordinary goods of commerce. Freund on Police Powers, sec. 10,
p. 7 .
Regardless of the Wilson act, which more fully placed
intoxicating liquors within the police power of the State, this
court for many years sustained the doctrine laid down in the
License Cases, 5 How. 523; arid see also Sherlock v. Alling,
93 U. S. 99; Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 201.
As the State has the constitutional power to prohibit even
the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, it must
undoubtedly have the power to regulate and restrict the sale
of intoxicating liquors, and as a part of that power has the
undoubted constitutional right to regulate and control any act
in furtherance of such sale, or any offer of sale completed within
the state boundaries which would lead up to the sale, which.
is restricted and controlled by the legislative .act. This is
not an interference with the interstate commerce clause and
cannot be said to act before the goods come within the jurisdiction of the State, because under the facts in the case at bar
the person who commits the act in question has voluntarily
appeared within the boundaries of the State and submitted
himself to the laws of that State, and has voluntarily chosen
to come within the State to engage in the business which is
restricted and controlled under the constitutional authority
of the State.
The act in question does not conflict with the interstate
commerce law.
The acts involved are committed by a person within the
jurisdiction of the State, who voluntarily engages within the
State in an occupation prohibited under the police power of
the State.
The taking of the order by the plaintiff for intoxicating
liquors was a part of the contract of sale. Lang v. Lynch

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

(N. H.) 4 L. R. A. 831.

205 U. S.

Drummers are mere solicitors of or-

ders for others and differ in no respect from clerks or salesmen
except that they are ambulatory in their operations and do
not usually carry or deliver the goods sold. Ex parte Taylor,
58 Mississippi, 478. The residence of the person who pursues
the business is immaterial. Bates- v. Mobile, 46 Alabama,
158; Mason v. Cumberland, 92 Maryland, 451; Washington v.,
McGeorge, 146 -Pa. St. 248.
See also Ficklen v. Taxing
District of Shelby County, 145 U. S. 1.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

A firm established in St. Paul, Minnesota, which was engaged in dealing in intoxicating liquors, employed Delamater,
the plaintiff in error, as a traveling salesman. As such
salesman Delamater, in the State of South Dakota, carried on
the business of soliciting "orders from residents of that State
for the purchase, from the firm in St. Paul, of intoxicating
liquors in quantities of less than five gAIlons. The course.
of dealing was this: The orders were procured in the form of
proposals to buy, and when accepted by the
firm the liquor
was shipped from St. Paul to the persons in South Dakota
who made the proposals, at their risk and cost, on sixty days'
credit. At, the time Delamater engaged in South Dakota
in the business just stated the law of that State imposed an
annual license charge uipon "the business of selling or offering
for sale" intoxicating liquors within the State, "by any
traveling salesman who solicits orders by the jug or bottle
in lots less than five gallons." A violation of the statute
was made a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment,
or both, in the discretion of the court. Delamater, not having paid the license charge, was prosecuted under the statute.
At the trial, although the uncontradicted proof established
the carrying on of business within the State, as above mentioned, Delamater requested a binding instruction to the
jury in his-favor, on the ground that the statute did not apply,

DELAMATER v.- SOUTH DAKOTA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of tihe Court.

and if it did, tlat it was void because repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. ExSception was taken to the refusal to give the instruction. The
Federal ground was reiterated in motions to arrest and for a
new trial, and the Supreme Court of the State, to which the
cause was taken, in affirming "the judgment of conviction
expressly considered and disposed of such Federal ground.
104 N. W. Rep. 537.
All the assignments of error involve -the proposition that
the state statute, as construed and applied by the court below, is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution.
It is manifest, as the subject dealt with is intoxicating liquors,
that the decision of the cause does not require us to determine
whether the restraints which the statute imposes would be a
direct burden on interstate commerce if generally applied
to subjects of such commerce, but only to decide whether
such restraints are a direct burden on interstate commerce
in intoxicating liquors as regulated by Congress in the act
commonly known as the Wilson act. 26 Stat. L. 313, chap.
728. For this reason we at once put out of view decisions
of this court, which are referred to in argument and which
are noted in the niargin, because they concerned only the
power of a State to deal with articles of interstate commerce
other than intoxicating liquors, or which, if concerning intoxicating liquors, related to controversies originating before
the enactment of the Wilson law.
The general power ,of the States to control and regulate the
business of dealing in or soliciting proposals within their
borders for the purchase of intoxicating liquors is beyond
question. With the existence of this general power we are
I Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Corson v. Maryland,
120 U. S. 502; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Stoutenburg v. Hennick, 129
U. S. 141; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U.S. 100; Lyny v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161;
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289;
Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 IT. S. 622; Norfolk & W. R. Co. v. Sims,
191 U. S. 441; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507.
VOL. COV-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

not, therefore; concerned. We are hence called upon only
to consider whether the general power of the State to control
and regulate the liquor traffic and the business of dealing
or soliciting proposals for the dealing in the same within the
State was inoperative as to the particular dealings here in
question, because they were interstate commerce, and therefore could not be subjected to the sway of the state statute
'without causing that statute to -be repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of.the United States.
It is well at once to give the text of the .Wilson act, which
is as follows (26 Stat. 713, c. 728):
"That all fermented, distilled, or other intoxicating liquors
or liquids transported into any State or Territory or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein,
shall upon arrival in such State or Territory be subject to the
operation and effect of the laws of such State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to the same extent and in the saiie manner as though such liquids or liquors
had been produced in such State or Territory, and shall not
be exempt therefrom' by reason of being introduced therein
in original packages or otherwise."
It is settled by a line of decisions of this court, noted in the
margin,' that the purpose of the Wilson act, as a regulation
by Congress of interstate commerce, was to allow the States,
as to intoxicating liquors, when the subject of such commerce,
to exert ampler power than could have been exercised before
the enactment of the statute. In other words, that Congress,
sedulous to prevent its exclusive right to regulate commerce
from interfering with the power of the States over intoxicating
liquor, by the Wilson act adopted a special rule enabling the
States to extend their authority as to such liquor shipped
rt-dahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Vance v.
W. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196
U, S. 133; Adams Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 147; Pabst Brewing Co.
v. Cren.haw, 198 U. S. 17; Foppiano v. Speed, 199 U. S. 501; Heyman v.
Southernt Ry. Co., 203 U. S.270.
* 1 In

DELAMATER v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from other States before it became commingled with the mass
of other property in the State by a sale in the original package.
The proposition relied upon, therefore, when considered
in the light of the Wilson act, reduces itself to this: Albeit
the State of South Dakota had power within its territory to
prevent the sale of intoxicating liquors, even when shipped
into that State from other States, yet South Dakota was
wanting in authority to prevent or regulate the carrying on
within its borders of the business of soliciting proposals for
the purchase of liquors, because the proposals were to be
consummated outside of the State, and the liquors to which
they related were also outside the State. This, however,
but come§ to this, that the power existed to prevent sales
of liquor, even when brought in from without the State, and
yet there was no authority to prevent or regulate the carrying on the accessory business of soliciting orders within the
State. Aside, however, from the anomalous situation 'to
which the proposition thus conduces, we think to maintain
it would be repugnant to the plain spirit of the Wilson act.
That act, as we have seen, manifested the conviction of Congress that control by the States over the traffic of dealing in
liquor within their borders was of such importance that it
was wise to adopt a special regulation of interstate commerce
on the subject. When, then, for the carrying out of this
purpose the regulation expressly provided that intoxicating
liquors coming into a State should be as completely under
the control of a State as if the liquor had been manufactured therein, it would be, we think, a disregard of the
purposes of Congress to hold that the owner of intoxicating
liquors in one State can, by virtue of the commerce clause,
go himself or send his agent into such other State, there in
defiance of the law of the State, to carry on the business of
soliciting proposals for the purchase of intoxicating liquors.
Passing from these general considerations let us briefly
more particularly notice some of the arguments relied upon.
As we have stated, decisions of this court interpreting the&

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Wilson act have held that that law did not authorize state
power to attach to liquor shipped from one State into another
before its arrival and delivery within, the State to which
destined. From this it is insisted, as none of the liquor covered by the proposals in this case had arrived and been delivered
within South Dakota, the power of the State did not attach
to the carrying on of the business of soliciting proposals,
for until 'the liquor arrived in the State there was nothing
on which the state authority could operate. But this is
simply to misapprehend and misapply the cases and to misconceive the nature of the act done in the carrying on the business
of soliciting proposals. The rulings in the previous cases to
the effect that, under the Wilson act, state authoiity did not
extend over liquor shipped from one State into another until
arrival and delivery to the consignee at the point of destination, were but a recognition of the fact that Congress did not
intend, in adopting the Wilson act, even if it lawfully could
have done so, to authorize one State to exert its authority
in another State by preventing the delivery of liquor embraced by transactions made in such other State. The proposition here relied on is. widely different, since it is that, despite the Wilson act, the State of South Dakota was without
power to regulate or control the business carried on in South
Dakota of soliciting proposals for the purchase of liquors,
because the proposals related to liquor situated in another
State. But the business of soliciting proposals in South Dakota was one which that State had,a right to regulate, wholly
irrespective of when or where it was contemplated the proposals would be accepted or whence the liquor which they
embraced was to b& shipped. Of course if the owner of the
liquor 'in another State had a right to ship the same into
South Dakota as an article of interstate commerce, and, as
.sich, there sell the same in the original packages, irrespective
of the laws of South Dakota, it would follow that the right
to carry on the business of soliciting in South Dakota was an
incident to the right to ship and sell, which could not be bur-

DELAMATER v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dened without directly affecting interstate commerce. But,
as by the Wilson act, the power of South Dakota attached
to intoxicating liquors, when shipped into that State from
another State after delivery but before the sale in the original
package, so as to authorize South Dakota to regulate or
forbid such sale, it follows that the regvilation by South Dakota of the business carried on within its borders of soliciting
proposals to purchase intoxicating liquors, even though such
liquors were situated in other States, cannot be held to be
repugnant to the cbmmerce clause of the. Constitution, because
directly or indirectly burdening the right to sell in South Dakota, a right which by virtue of the Wilson act did not exist.
2. Nor is there merit in the arguments based on the ruling
in Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438. The controversies in that case and the matters therein decided were
recapitulated in Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S.
17, as follows (p. 25):
. "In Vance v. W. A. Vdndercook Co., 170 U. S. 438, the
operation of a liquor law of South Carolina was considered.
By the act in question the State of South Carolina took exclusive charge of the sale of liquor within the State, appointed
its agents to sell the'same, and empowered them to purchase
the liquor which was to. be brought into the State for- sale.
The fact was that by the act in question the State of South
Carolina, instead of forbidding the traffic in liquor, authorized
it, and engaged -in the liquor business .for its own account,
using it as a source of revenue. -The act, in addition, affixed
prerequisite conditions to the shipment into South. Carolina
from other States of liquor to a consumer who had purchased
it for his own use, and not for sale. Considering the" Wilson
act and the previous decisions applying it, in so far as it took
charge in behalf of the State of the sale of liquor within the
State, and made such sale a source of revenue, was not an
interference with interstate commerce. In so'far, however,
as the state law imposed burdens on the right to ship liquor
from another State to a resident of South Carolina, intended

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

for his own use, and-not for sale within the State, the law was
heid to. be repugnant to the Constitution, because the. Wilson
act, whilst it delegated to the State plenary power to reguJate. the sale of liquors in South Carolina shipped into the
State from other States, did not recognize the right of a State
to. prevent an individual from ordering liquors from outside
Qf the State of his residence for his own consumption, and. not
for sale."
It having been thus settled that under the Wilson act a
resident -of one. State had the right to contract for liquors in
another State and receive the liquors in the State of his residence fof his own use, therefore, it is insisted the agent or
traveling salesman of a non-fesident dealer in intoxicating
*liquors had the right to go into South Dakota and there carry
on the business of soliciting from residents of that. State.
orders for liquor to be consummated by acceptance of the
proposals by the non-resident dealer. The premise is sound,
but the error lies in the deduction, since it ignores the broad
distinction between the want of power of a State to prevent
a resident from ordering from another State liquor for his
own use and the plenary authority of a State to forbid the
carrying on within .its borders of the business of soliciting
orders for intoxicating liqjuors situated in another $tate,
even although such orders may only contemplate a contract
to result from final acceptance in the State where the liquor
is situated. The distinction between the two is not only
obvious, but has been foreclosed by a previous decision of
this court. That a State may regulate and forbid the making
within its borders of insurance contracts with its-citizens by.
foreign insurance companies or their agents is certain. Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648. But that this power to prohibit does not extend to preventing a citizen of one State from
making a contract of insurance in another State is also settled.
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.578. In Nutting v. Massachusetts, 183 U31 S. 553, the court was called upon to consider
-these two subjects-that is,the, power of the State on the one

DELAMATER v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hand to forbid the making within the State of contracts of
insurance with unauthorized insurance companies and the
right of the individual on his own behalf to make a contract
with such insurance companies in another State as to property
situate within the State of residence. The case was brought
to this court to review a conviction of Nutting, a citizen of
Massachusetts, for having negotiated insurance with a company not authorized to do business in Massachusetts, contrary
to the statutes of that State. Briefly, the facts were that
Nutting, an insurance broker, solicited in Massachusetts a
contract of insurance on property belonging to MeKie situated
in that State. The proposal was accepted outside of the
State of Massachusetts. and the policy 'lso issued outside of
that State. The contenti6n of the plaintiff in error was that
as the contract was consummated outside of Massachusetts,
the conviction was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment,
because the acts done did not fall within the general principle
announced in Hooper v. CaliforniaI supra, but were within
the ruliAg in Allgeyer v. Louisiana. The conviction was
affirmed not because tlJe contract was consummated in Massachusetts, but upon the ground that'the right-of an individual
to obtain insurance for himself outside of the State of his
residence did not sanction the conduct 'of Nutting, as an
insurance i5roker, in carrying on the business- in Massachusetts
of soliciting unauthorized insurance. After reviewing the
Hooper and Allgeyer decisions and pointing out that there
was no conflict between the two cases, the court said (p. 558);
"As was well said by the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts: 'While the legislature cannot impair the freedom
of McKie to elect with whom he will contract, it can 'prevent
the foreign insurers from sheltering themselves under his
freedom in order to solicit contracts which otherwise he would
not have thought of making. It may prohibit, not only agents
of the insurers, but also brokers, from soliciting or intermeddling in such insurance, and for the same reasons.' - 175 Massachusetts, 156; 55 N. E. Rep. 895."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

The ruling thus, made is particularly pertinent to the. subject of intoxicating liquors and the power of the State in
respect thereto. As we have seen, the right. of"- the States
to prohibit the sale of liquor within their respective jurisdictions in and by virtue, of the regulation of commerce en.oodied
in the Wilson act is absolutely applicable to liquor shipped
from one State into another after delivery. and before the sale
in. the original package. It follows that the authority bf the
States, so far as the sale. of -intoxicating liquors within their
borders is concerned, is just as complete as is their right to
regulate within their jurisdiction the making of contracts
of insurance. It hence must be that the authority of the
States to forbid agents of non-resident liquor dealers from
coming within their borders to solicit contracts for the purchase of intoxicating liquors which otherwise the citizen of
the State "would not have thought of making,". must be. as
complete and efficacious as is such authority in relation to
contracts of insurance, especially in view of the conceptions
of public order and social well-being which it may be assumed
lie at the foundation of regulations concerning the traffic
in liquor.
3'. The contention that the law of South Dakota was a
taxing law and not a police regulation, and therefore not
within the purview of the Wilson act, is in conflict with the
purpose of that law as interpreted by the Supreme Court of
South Dakota. 'State v. Beuchler, 10 S. Dak. 156. Besides,
the contention is foreclosed by the ruling of this court in
PabstBrewing Co. v. Crenshaw, supra.
Affirmed.
The CiIEF JUSTICE dissents.

