GILA RESERVOIR CO. v. GILA WATER CO.
205 U. S.

279

Opinion 6f the Court.

Naturally enough, neither the Circuit Court nor the Supreme
Court referred to any Federal question whatever.
The writ of error cannot be maintained. Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville Railway Company v. McGuire, 196 U. S.
128, 132; Allen v. Allegheny County, 196 U. S. 458.
Writ of error dismissed.

GILA

BEND RESERVOIR AND IRRIGATION
PANY v. GILA WATER COMPANY.

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 226 of October term, 1905.. Petition submitted Octobir 9, 1906.-Decided April 8,
1907.

Petition for rehearing in Gi1a Reservoir Co. v. Gila Water Co., 202 U. S.
270, denied.
The failure to make a defense by a party who is in court is, generally speaking, equivalent to making a defense and having it overruled; and where
the question of the jurisdiction of a c6urt in a particular case over property in its actual possession was not presented in that court, the appellant cannot, in this court, question the power of that court to order a
sale of the property or the title conveyed to the purchaser.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh T. Taggart and Mr. William C. Prentiss for appellant.
Mr. Charles F. Ainsworth for appellee.
MR. JuSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
During the October term, 1905, and on May 14, 1906, 202 U. S
270, the decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona in this case was affirmed. On May 26 (the last day

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

of the term) an order was entered which in effect continued
the jurisdiction of this court to the present term, giving opportunity to plaintiff in error to present a petition for rehearing during the vacation. That petition was presented,
and in. the early part of this term, after full consideration,
was denied. Subsequently, lest in the confused state of the
record it might be supposed by either of the parties that the
facts had been misapprehended, we, on- January 7, 1907,
entered an order withdrawing the memorandum denying the
petition for reheafing and granting leave to counsel on both
sides to file such additional briefs as they desired. In pursuance of this leave, briefs on both sides have been filed, and
we have again examined the record.
This consists of the pleadings, the decree in favor of the defendant, a bill of exceptions divided into two parts-one being
a statement of exceptions, and the other a narrative of the
"circumstances and evidence"-the decree and opinion of
the. Supreme Court and a statement of facts prepared for the
review by this court. The opinion was filed March 26, 1904,
and the statement of facts allowed February 21, 1905, nearly
a year after the decision. In addition, there appears a motion
made in the Supreme Court by the appellee to strike from the
files the abstract of record for several reasons, one of which
was that it did not contain the findings of fact and the conclusions of law of the District Court. This is followed by the
suggestion of a diminution of the record in what purports
to be these findings and conclusions. It does not appear that
any action was taken by the Supreme Court upon this motion
or any leave given to amend the record by the addition of the
,findings and conclusions.
We copy in full the statement of facts prepared and allowed
by the Supreme Court:
"Statement of facts in this case in the nature of a special
verdict made by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona,
and also rulings of the court below on the admission and rejection of evidence as excepted to on the foregoing transcript

GILA RESERVOIR CO. v. GILA WATER CO.
205 U. S.

281

Opinion bf the Court.

of the record in the above-entitled cause, to be used by appellant herein in its appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States.
"That the above-entitled cause was tried in the court below
upon the complaint which was the statement of a cause of
action to quiet title to the property described in said complaint against the defendants therein mentioned; the amended
answer of the Gila Water Company, one of the said defendants,
denying the plaintiff in said complaint being the owner of the
property therein described, said defendant further alleging
peaceable and adverse possession of the property described
in plaintiff's complaint under the title and color of title for
more than three years preceding the date of the commencement of the above action, and also alleging peaceable and
adverse possession of said property for more than five years
before the commencement of the suit, using and enjoying the
same, paying taxes thereon, claiming under deeds duly recorded;
the cross complaint of said defendant, Gila Water Company,
claiming to be the owner in fee simple of all. the property described in plaintiff's complaint in said cause, and the answer
of appellant herein to said Gila Water Company's cross complaint;
"That all of the other defendants mentioned in said complaint answered and disclaimed any right, title and interest
in and to the property described in said complaint;
"That this Supreme Court adopts and makes a part of this
statement of facts the bill of exceptions in this case, part I,
exceptions, part II, circumstances and evidence, as certified
and signed on the 24th day of November, 1902, by Hon. Edward Kent, the presiding judge who tried this cause below, the
same as if it were set forth at length herein;
"That no order was made in the court below consolidating
the case known as No. 1728 in the trial court and the case
known as No. 1996 in the same court, said eases being those the
record of which is referred to in the above-mentioned bill
of exceptions;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

"That the receiver appointed in said case No. 1728 made
the sale and executed the deed under which the Gila Water
Company, appellee, claims title to the property in dispute;
that no order was in terms made extending the receivership
in said case No. 1728 to said case No. 1996, the latter case
being the one in which said rieceiver made said sale and by the
judgment rendered therein assumed to convey the title to said
property;, that the only orders made in said case No. 1996
relating to said receivership are those dated May 29, 1894,
November 23, 1898, July 21, 1894, November 20, 1894, and
January 10, 1895, referred to in said bill of exceptions.
"That from the foregoing record and facts, the court finds
that plaintiff and appellant herein, Gila Bend Reservoir and
Irrigation Company, a corporation, has not and did not have
at the commencement of this action any cause of action in
respect to, nor did it have and has not now any right, title or
interest in and to the property or any part thereof mentioned
and described in the complaint herein; that the defendant
appellee, Gila Water Company, a corporation, was at the time
of. the commencement of this action and is now the owner
in fee simple and in possession of all the property mentioned
and described in plaintiff's complaint herein."
Appellant invokes, the doctrine laid down in Herrick v.
Boquillas Cattle Company, 200 U. S. 96, 98; Harrisonv. Perea,
168 U. S. 311, 323, and cases cited in the opinion, to the effect
that our jurisdiction on an appeal from the Supreme Court
of a Territory, "apart from exceptions duly taken to rulings
on the admission or rejection of evidence, is limited to determining whether the findings of facts support the judgment."
Of course, if there are no findings or statement of facts and no
exceptions in respect to the introduction or rejection of testimony, the decree will be affirmed, if 'responsive to the allegations of the pleadings.
The statement of facts prepared by the Supreme Court,
standing by itself, is incomplete, but it is helped by a reference
to the bill of exceptions in the trial court, which is adopted

GILA RESERVOIR CO. v. GILA WATER CO.
205 U. S.

2S3

Opinion of the Court.

and made part of the statement. True, much of the matter
in this bill is a mere recital of testimony, but we find in it
copies of certain orders and decrees. Putting all together,
we are enabled to see clearly the scope of the inquiry. It
appears that prior to this litigation two suits were brought
in the trial court, one numbered 1728.and the other 1996.
The appellant was defendant in the latter. In the first an
order was made December 6, 1893, appointing James McMillan
receiver of the property now in question. The complaint in
suit No. 1996, alleging that the court had already appointed
a receiver in the prior case, prayed the appointment of a receiver or an enlargement of the powers of the one then acting,
and that he take possession of the property and sell the same
to pay the debts. No order appears of record in terms either
consolidating the two cases or extending the receivership in
case No. 1728 to case No. 1996. A decree was eintered in suit
No. 1996, of date November 20, 1894, which, after finding-the
amounts due certain creditors, adjudged and decreed "that
James McMillan, the receiver heretofore appointed by this
court, and now in possession of said premises, under the orders
of this court, proceed to advertise and sell said property and
distribute the proceeds as directed in the decree." On January 3, 1895, a report, bearing a double heading, to wit, the
titles and headings of both suits Nos. 1728 and 1996, and
purporting to be of a sale of the property by James McMillan,
receiver, under the order and decree in suit No. 1996, was filed
in the court, and on January 10, 1895, an order bearing the
same double heading of the two suits was entered, confirming
that sale. Subsequently a deed of the property to the purchaser was executed, purporting to be from the receiver duly
appointed in the two equity suits, with titles and numbers
as above.
The decree in suit No. 1996 was appealed to the territorial
and the United States Supreme courts, and affirmed by each of
them. The briefs of appellant in the territorial Supreme
Court show that the question of the jurisdiction of a court in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

a particular case over property in its actual possession was not
presented. In the brief of appellant filed in this case this
statement appears:
"So confident were counsel of the lack of equity in the bill
and of reversal by the appellate courts that the fundamental
question of jurisdiction, now urged, was overlooked.
"Indeed, the attention of counsel was so centered upon that
point and the question of change of venue that in the brief
in this court it was even stated that the receiver had been
appointed upon motion of the plaintiffs in suit No. 1996, and
that the decree therein of November 20, 1894, provided for
the appointment of a receiver."
It is now contended that, inasmuch as the question is one
of jurisdiction, neither the omission to call attention to the
matter in the prior litigation nor the misrecital of fact operates
to render the decree inthat case res judicataupon the question,
but leaves the matter open for present inquiry. Counsel are
mistaken. . In that litigation the present appellant was the
defendant. The property was in the possession of the court,
even if held under a prior receivership. The decree directed
its sale. It was sold. The sale was confirmed, the deed made
and the property delivered to the purchaser. The appellant
at least cannot now question the jurisdiction of the court in
that suit or the title which it conveyed to the purchaser at
the sale. A failure to make a defense by a party who is in
court is, generally speaking, equivalent to making a defense
and having it overruled.
Further, in the opinion heretofore filed, after referring to
the declaration of the Supreme Court of the Territory that the
trial "court, by its action, ratified the acts of the receiver in
the second suit, and thereby, in effect, extended his power
and authority as such receiver to such second suit," we said
(p. 274):
"The objection made by the appellant to it is, as we have
indicated, that suit No. 1996 was a proceeding in rem, and
that the court did not acquire jurisdiction of the property

BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

for the reason that it was in the custody of the court iii suit
No. 1728, and that the Court in the latter case (lid not extend
the receivership to the No. 1996, nor consolidate the suits,
and, therefore, had no power to order the sale of the property
by the receiver in No. 1728.
"This is tantamount to saying that the absence of formal
orders by the court must prevail over its essential action.
It is clear from the record that the District Court considered
the cases pending before it at the same time, consideced
No. 1996 as the complement of No. 1728, regarded the cases
as in fact consolidated,'and empowered the receiver appointed
in 1728 to sell the property and distribute the proceeds, as
directed by the decree in 1996."
Nothing further need be added to show that the case was
rightly decided. The petition for a rehearing is
Denied.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of this case.

BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 216.. Argued March 21. 1907-Decided April 8, 1907.
The old English rule that in chancery sales, until confirmation of the master's report the bidding would be opened upon a mere oqer to advance
the price ten per cent has-been rejected, and a sale will not be set aside
for inadequacy of price unless so great as to shock the conscience or
where there are additional circumstances against its fairness; and each
case stands upon its own facts.
While the confidence in the stability of judicial sales should not be disturbed, a sale under foreclosure of valuable property, worth at least seven
times the amount of the bid, should not be confirmed in the face of an
adverse report by the master and the trial court.
THIS

is an appeal fron a judgment of the Supreme Court of

