SWING v. WESTON LUMBER CO.
205 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court

SWING v. WESTON LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No 145.

Argued January 10, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

The State has undoubted power to prohibit foreign insurance companies
from doing business within its limits, or, in allowing them to do so, to
impose such conditions as it pleases.
Where the state court decides that a foreign insurance company cannot
recover assessments on a policy issued within the State because it has not
complied with the statutory conditions imposed by the State, no Federal
question is involved, and a request to find that the state statute could not
prevent the insured from going outside the State and obtaining insurance
on property within the State does not raise a Federal question, where
the fact was otherwise, and the writ of error will be dismissed.
140 Michigan, 344, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Patterson A. Reece, with whom Mr. Virgil I. Hixson
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward C. Chapin for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Circuit Court of Schoolcraft
County, Michigan, by Swing, trustee of the Union Mutual Fire
Insurance Company, a corporation of Ohio, against the Weston
Lumber Company, a corporation of Michigan, to collect its
share as a policy holder of an assessment male by the order
of the Supreme Court of Ohio in liquidating the liabilities of
the insurance company.
The assessment against defendant was in respect of a policy.
for $5,000 and a renewal thereof on defendant's lumber and
other property at Manistique, Michigan. The insurance company was never licensed to do business in Michigan, and the

OCTOI3ER TERM, 1906.
Opinion ,f the Court.

205 U. S.

defense was pleade(I that it was a foreign corporation, not allthorized to transact business in that State, and that the policies
were issued in direct violation of the laws of M1ichigan, the
company not having coniplied with those relating to foreign
insurance companies doing business in the State; and that the
contracts of insurance were at variance with and contrary to
the settled policy of the State.
The case was tried by the court without a jury. At the coniclusion of the trial plaintiff tna(Ie requests for certain findings
as inatters of law, including this:
"11. That the statutes of this State do not and could not
under the Constitution of the United States prohibit this defendant from going or sending outside of this State and there
procuring insurance on property belonging to the defendant
and located in this State from an insurance company not authorized to do business in this State;" which the court refused.
Findings of fact and conclusions of law were made and filed.
It was found, among other things, that"In the latter part of the summer of 1889 defendant desired
to increase the amount of insurance carried upon lumber accumulated in its yards, and made application to a local agency
conducted by a banking institution of the town for a considerable addition to the line of its insurance already held in that
agency. Not being able to write, in one risk, in its own companies, the amount of additional insurance desired, the local
agency, through W. C. Marsh, an enlploy6 of the bank, who
attended to its insurance business, placed twelve different
policies with outside agencies. Part of this line of insurance
was sent to George R. Lewis & Company, an agency of Minneapolis, Minnesota, through which concern the $5,000 insurance.
involved in this case was placed with the said Union Mutual
Fire Insurance Company of Cincinnati, Ohio."
It was admitted that the insurance company had never
complied with any of the requirements imposed by the statutes
of Michigan on insurance companies of other States seeking
to transact business in Michigan.

SWING v. WESTON LUMBER CO.
205 U. S.

Opinion bf the Court.

Sections 5157 and 10467 of the Compiled Laws of Michigan
of 1897 are as follows:
(5157.) "That it shall be unlawful for any person or persons,
as agent, solicitor, surveyor, broker, or in any other capacity,
to transact or to aid in any manner, directly or indirectly, in
transacting or soliciting within this State any insurance business for any person, persons, firm or copartnership who are
non-residents of this State, or for any fire or inland navigation insurance company or association, not incorporated by
the laws [or] of this State, or to act for or in behalf of any person or persons, firm or corporation, as agent or broker, or in
any other capacity, to procure, or assist to procure, a fire or
inland marine policy or policies of insurance on property
situated in this State, for any non-resident person, persons,
firm or copartnership, or in any company or association without this State whether incorporated or not, without procuring
or receiving from the commissioner of insurance the certificate
of authority provided for in section twenty-three of an act
entitled 'An act relative to the organization of fire and marine
insurance companies transacting business within this State,'
approved April third, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, as
amended. Such certificate of authority shall state the name
or names of the person, persons, firm or copartnership, or the
location of the company or association as the case may be and
that the party named in the certificate has complied with the
laws of this State, regulating fire, marine, and inland navigation insurance, and the name of the duly appointed attorney
in this State on whom process may be served." Act of 1881,

ยง.
(10467.) "But when, by the laws of this State, any act is
forbidden to be done by any corporation, or by any association
of individuals, without express authority by law, and such act
shall have been done by a foreign corporation, it shall not be
authorized to maintain any action founded upon such act,
or upon any liability or obligation, express or implied, arising
out of, or made or entered into in consideration of such act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Judgment was entered in favor of defendant, and affirmed,
on error, by the Supreme Court of Michigan. Swing v. Weston
Lumber Company, 140 Michigan, 344.
The Supreme Court held that a foreign mutual insurance
company, which had not been authorized to do business in
Michigan as provided by its statutes, could not maintain a suit
to collect assessments due on a policy issued by one of its agents
in another State on request of an insurance broker of Michigan
who was unable to place the whole line in his own authorized
companies. Seamans v. Temple Company, 105 Michigan, 400,
citing many cases, was referred to and quoted from. It appeared therefrom that it had been for years the policy of the
State to limit the business of insurance to such corporations,
domestic and foreign, as should be authorized to do business,
-after compliance with certain regulations and conditions prescribed by law, and that the statutes were intended to be
prohibitory in their character.
The power of the State to prohibit foreign insurance companies from doing business within its limits, or in allowing
them to do so to impose such conditions as it pleases, is undoubted. Hooper v. California,155 U. S.648; Security Mutual
Lie Insurance Company v. Prewitt, 202 U. S.246; Chattanooga
National Building & Loan Association.v. Denson, 189 U. S.408.
What was held here on the facts was that the contract was
brought about and completed in Michigan by a representative
of the foreign corporation. So far as defendant was concerned
its application for insurance was made and the business was
done with the local office .atManistique, with which it was in
the habit of doing business. It was not a case of defendant
"going or sending outside of this State and there procuring.
insurance on property belonging to the defendant and located
in this State from an insurance company not authorized to do
business in this State," as supposed in plaintiff's eleventh request for finding. That request is the only pretense in the
record of a Federal question 'being raised prior to the judgments below, and was entirely inadequate for that purpose.

GILA RESERVOIR CO. v. GILA WATER CO.
205 U. S.

279

Opinion 6f the Court.

Naturally enough, neither the Circuit Court nor the Supreme
Court referred to any Federal question whatever.
The writ of error cannot be maintained. Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville Railway Company v. McGuire, 196 U. S.
128, 132; Allen v. Allegheny County, 196 U. S. 458.
Writ of error dismissed.

GILA

BEND RESERVOIR AND IRRIGATION
PANY v. GILA WATER COMPANY.

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 226 of October term, 1905.. Petition submitted Octobir 9, 1906.-Decided April 8,
1907.

Petition for rehearing in Gi1a Reservoir Co. v. Gila Water Co., 202 U. S.
270, denied.
The failure to make a defense by a party who is in court is, generally speaking, equivalent to making a defense and having it overruled; and where
the question of the jurisdiction of a c6urt in a particular case over property in its actual possession was not presented in that court, the appellant cannot, in this court, question the power of that court to order a
sale of the property or the title conveyed to the purchaser.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh T. Taggart and Mr. William C. Prentiss for appellant.
Mr. Charles F. Ainsworth for appellee.
MR. JuSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
During the October term, 1905, and on May 14, 1906, 202 U. S
270, the decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona in this case was affirmed. On May 26 (the last day

