CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1983

KOEHLER, WARDEN v. ENGLE
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
No. 83-1.

Argued February 28, 1984--Decided March 26, 1984

707 F. 2d 241, affirmed by an equally divided Court.

Louis J. Caruso, Solicitor General of Michigan, argued the
cause for petitioner. With him on the brief were Frank J.
Kelley, Attorney General, and Thomas C. Nelson, Assistant
Attorney General.
John Nussbaumer argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
PER CURIAM.

The judgment is affirmed by an equally divided Court.
JUSTICE MARSHALL

case.

took no part in the decision of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Syllabus

466 U. S.

JEFFERSON PARISH HOSPITAL DISTRICT NO. 2
ET AL. v. HYDE
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 82-1031.

Argued November 2, 1983-Decided March 27, 1984

A hospital governed by petitioners has a contract with a firm of anesthesiologists requiring all anesthesiological services for the hospital's pa-

tients to be performed by that firm. Because of this contract, respondent anesthesiologist's application for admission to the hospital's medical
staff was denied. Respondent then commenced an action in Federal
District Court, claiming that the exclusive contract violated ยง 1 of the
Sherman Act, and seeking declaratory and injunctive relief. The District Court denied relief, finding that the anticompetitive consequences
of the contract were minimal and outweighed by benefits in the form of
improved patient care. The Court of Appeals reversed, finding the contract illegal "per se." The court held that the case involved a "tying
arrangement" because the users of the hospital's operating rooms (the
tying product) were compelled to purchase the hospital's chosen anesthesiological services (the tied product), that the hospital possessed sufficient market power in the tying market to coerce purchasers of the tied
product, and that since the purchase of the tied product constituted a
"not insubstantial amount of interstate commerce," the tying arrangement was therefore illegal "per se."
Held: The exclusive contract in question does not violate ยง 1 of the Sherman Act. Pp. 9-32.
(a) Any inquiry into the validity of a tying arrangement must focus on
the market or markets in which the two products are sold, for that is
where the anticompetitive forcing has its impact. Thus, in this case the
analysis of the tying issue must focus on the hospital's sale of services
to its patients, rather than its contractual arrangements with the providers of anesthesiological services. In making that analysis, consideration
must be given to whether petitioners are selling two separate products
that may be tied together, and, if so, whether they have used their
market power to force their patients to accept the tying arrangement.
Pp. 9-18.
(b) No tying arrangement can exist here unless there is a sufficient demand for the purchase of anesthesiological services separate from hospital services to identify a distinct product market in which it is efficient to
offer anesthesiological services separately from hospital services. The

