OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Per Curiam

466 U. S.

CAPITAL CITIES MEDIA, INC., TDBA THE WILKESBARRE TIMES LEADER, ET AL. v. TOOLE,
JUDGE, COURT OF COMMON PLEAS
OF LUZERNE COUNTY
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA, EASTERN DISTRICT
No. 83-599. Decided April 23, 1984
Held: The Pennsylvania Supreme Court's judgment-denying a petition
for a writ of prohibition with regard to respondent's orders in a criminal
trial prohibiting the publishing of the jurors' names and addresses; the
sketching, photographing, televising, and videotaping of the jurors
during the proceedings; and the handling of trial exhibits without court
permission-is vacated, and the cause is remanded for clarification of
the record, which does not disclose whether the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court passed on petitioners' federal constitutional claims or denied their
petition on an adequate and independent state ground.
Certiorari granted; vacated and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

The proceedings below were brought to challenge an order
by respondent who, in a criminal trial, barred the press and
public from publishing the names and addresses of jurors.
Respondent also prohibited the parties from sketching,
photographing, televising, and videotaping the jurors during
their service in the criminal proceedings and from handling
trial exhibits without permission of the court. Petitioners
filed a petition for a writ of prohibition with the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania. However, it was denied without
opinion. Petitioners, arguing that they have been denied
their federal constitutional rights, now urge us to grant
certiorari.
As matters now stand, the record does not disclose
whether the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania passed on petitioners' federal claims or whether it denied their petition for
a writ of prohibition on an adequate and independent state
ground. For this reason, we grant the petition for writ of

CAPITAL CITIES MEDIA, INC. v. TOOLE
378

379

Per Curiam

certiorari, vacate the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, and remand the cause to that court for such
further proceedings as it may deem appropriate to clarify the
record. See PhiladelphiaNewspapers, Inc. v. Jerome, 434
U. S. 241 (1978) (per curiam); California v. Krivda, 409
U. S. 33 (1972) (per curiam).
So ordered.

