WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP. v. VAUGHN
Per Curiam

WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP. v.
VAUGHN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 82-2042.

Argued March 19, 1984-Decided April 30, 1984

Certiorari dismissed.

Reported below: 702 F. 2d 137.

James W. Moore argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Walter A. Paulson II and Stuart
I. Saltman.
Clyde E. Murphy argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Jack Greenberg, James M. NabritIII,
Charles Stephen Ralston, 0. Peter Sherwood, Ronald L.
Ellis, Judith Reed, and John W. Walker.*
PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.

*Robert E. Williams, Douglas S. McDowell, and BarbaraL. Neilson
filed a brief for the Equal Employment Advisory Council as amicus curiae
urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Syllabus

466 U. S.

PULLIAM, MAGISTRATE FOR THE COUNTY OF
CULPEPER, VIRGINIA v. ALLEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 82-1432.

Argued November 2, 1983-Decided May 14, 1984

After respondents were arrested for nonjailable misdemeanors, petitioner,
a Magistrate in a Virginia county, imposed bail, and when respondents
were unable to meet the bail petitioner committed them to jail. Subsequently, respondents brought an action against petitioner in Federal
District Court under 42 U. S. C. ยง 1983, claiming that petitioner's practice of imposing bail on persons arrested for nonjailable offenses under
Virginia law and of incarcerating those persons if they could not meet the
bail was unconstitutional. The court agreed and enjoined the practice,
and also awarded respondents costs and attorney's fees under the Civil
Rights Attorney's Fees Awards Act of 1976. Determining that judicial
immunity did not extend to injunctive relief under ยง 1983 and that prospective injunctive relief properly had been awarded against petitioner,
the Court of Appeals affirmed the award of attorney's fees.
Held:
1. Judicial immunity is not a bar to prospective injunctive relief
against a judicial officer, such as petitioner, acting in her judicial capacity. Pp. 528-543.
(a) Common-law principles of judicial immunity were incorporated
into the United States judicial system and should not be abrogated absent clear legislative intent to do so. Although there were no injunctions against common-law judges, there is a common-law parallel to the
ยง 1983 injunction at issue here in the collateral prospective relief available against judges through the use of the King's prerogative writs in
England. The history of these writs discloses that the common-law rule
of judicial immunity did not include immunity from prospective collateral
relief. Pp. 528-536.
(b) The history of judicial immunity in the United States is fully
consistent with the common-law experience. There never has been a
rule of absolute judicial immunity from prospective relief, and there is no
evidence that the absence of that immunity has had a chilling effect on
judicial independence. Limitations on obtaining equitable relief serve
to curtail or prevent harassment of judges through suits against them by
disgruntled litigants. Collateral injunctive relief against a judge, particularly when that relief is available through ยง 1983, also raises a concern relating to the proper functioning of federal-state relations, but that

