OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

TATE, SUPERINTENDENT, CHILLICOTHE
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTE v. ROSE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-935 (83-1747).

Decided May 19, 1984

An application to stay the Court of Appeals' judgment affirming the District Court's grant of habeas corpus relief to respondent Ohio prisonerwho was convicted of murder in 1979 and who, under the Court of
Appeals' ruling, is entitled to a new trial and to release pending retrialis granted pending disposition of applicant's petition for a writ of certiorari. Petitioner concedes that certain statements made by respondent
to a police officer and introduced at respondent's trial were elicited in
violation of Edwards v. Arizona, 451 U. S. 477, which was decided after
respondent's conviction but before it became final. The Court of
Appeals concluded that Edwards should be applied retroactively to
respondent's case. Because petitioner's petition presents an open question and because this Court's subsequent decision in Solem v. Stumes,
465 U. S. 638, makes highly doubtful the correctness of the Court of Appeals' decision, it is likely that four Justices will vote to grant certiorari.
This Court will likely either reverse the Court of Appeals' judgment or
vacate the judgment and remand the case for reconsideration in light of
Solem. Finally, the "stay equities" balance in applicant's favor.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

Circuit Justice.

The petitioner in No. 83-1747 is the Superintendent of the
Chillicothe Correctional Institute at Chillicothe, Ohio. The

respondent is an Ohio prisoner in petitioner's custody.

Re-

spondent applied to the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Ohio for a writ of habeas corpus. The

District Court granted the writ, and the United States Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed. Rose v. Engle,
722 F. 2d 1277 (1983). Petitioner challenges that decision in
No. 83-1747.

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

466 U. S.

Respondent, who is entitled to a new trial under the Court
of Appeals' ruling, has been ordered released on May 21,
1984, pending retrial. Petitioner seeks a stay of the Court
of Appeals' judgment until this Court completes its consideration of his petition. In deciding whether to grant the
requested stay, I am obliged to determine whether four
Justices are likely to vote to grant certiorari, to balance
the "stay equities," and to gauge the likely outcome of
this Court's consideration of the case on the merits. See
Gregory-Portland Independent School District v. United
States, 448 U. S. 1342 (1980) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
I conclude that the stay should be granted.
Respondent was convicted of murder in 1979. At the
trial, the prosecutor introduced certain statements that
respondent made, after he had invoked his right to silence
and to the presence of an attorney, in response to a police
officer's renewed questioning. Petitioner concedes that
these statements were elicited in violation of Edwards v.
Arizona, 451 U. S. 477 (1981), decided two years after respondent's conviction.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's grant
of habeas relief because it concluded, following the analysis
of United States v. Johnson, 457 U. S. 537 (1982), that
Edwards should be applied retroactively to respondent's
case. The court observed that respondent's conviction had
not become final at the time Edwards was decided, since the
time for filing a petition for a writ of certiorari on direct
appeal expired at the end of the very day Edwards was handed
down. The issue presented in the petition is whether the
Edwards decision should have been applied to respondent's
case.
In Solem v. Stumes, 465 U. S. 638 (1984), this Court recently decided that Edwards v. Arizona "is not to be applied
in collateral review of final convictions." 465 U. S., at 650.
The Court expressly declined to decide whether Edwards
was retroactive in collateral proceedings for any case, such as

TATE v. ROSE
1301

Opinion in Chambers

respondent's, in which the conviction was not yet final when
Edwards was decided. The petition in No. 83-1747 accordingly presents a question left open in Solem v. Stumes.
The Court's decision in Stumes, however, sheds considerable light on the correctness of the Sixth Circuit's decision in
respondent's case. First, the Court concluded, contrary to
the Sixth Circuit's view, that the analysis adopted in United
States v. Johnson, supra, is not applicable to the decision
whether Edwards is retroactive. 465 U. S., at 643, n. 3.
Thus, the Court of Appeals followed an erroneous approach
in considering the retroactivity of Edwards. Second, the rationale of the Court in Solem v. Stumes casts into substantial
doubt the Sixth Circuit's conclusion that Edwards presents a
ground for ordering a new trial in respondent's case. The
Court reasoned that Edwards "has only a tangential relation
to truthfinding at trial," 465 U. S., at 643-644; that police
cannot "be faulted if they did not anticipate [the] per se
approach" of Edwards, 465 U. S., at 647; and that "retroactive application of Edwards would have a disruptive effect
on the administration of justice," id., at 650. Although new
arguments, of course, might be made to blunt the force of this
reasoning in cases presenting different facts from those presented in Stumes, the reasoning of Stumes strongly suggests
that Edwards should not retroactively render inadmissible a
statement, such as those at issue in respondent's case, obtained by police years before Edwards was decided.
Because the petition in No. 83-1747 presents an open question and because Solem v. Stumes makes highly doubtful the
correctness of the decision of the Court of Appeals, I think it
likely that four Justices will vote to grant the petition. As
for disposition of the case on the merits, I think it likely that
the Court will either (1) give plenary consideration to the
question left open in Solem v. Stumes and reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals or (2) vacate the Court of Appeals' judgment and remand the case for reconsideration in
light of Solem v. Stumes. I further conclude that the "stay

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

466 U. S.

equities" balance in petitioner's favor: granting the stay for
the time necessary to consider the petition should not cause a
significant incremental burden to respondent, who has been
incarcerated for several years, but doing so will relieve the
State of Ohio of the burden of releasing respondent or retrying him.
I therefore grant the application for a stay of the judgment
of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in
Rose v. Engle, supra, pending disposition of the petition for a
writ of certiorari in No. 83-1747.
It is so ordered.

