THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statemefit of the case.

or not the complainants could have made their money on
execution had it not been for the mortgage and assignment
to the defendant. The jury answered that they could, and
the defendant was made personally liable for the whole
amount.

Without attempting to decide whether the Territorial
legislature had or had not the power to legalize a verdict
rendered by three-fourths of a jury, we think the proceedings were erroneous, and the decree must be REVERSED and
the cause remanded for further proceedings
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.
1. The 107th section of the Internal Revenue Act of July 20, 1868, which
enacts that "the internal revenue laws imposing taxes on distilled spirits, fermented liquors,tobacco, snuff, and cigars, shall be construed to extend to such
articles produced anywhere within the exterior boundaries of the United States,
whether the same shall be within a collection district or not," applies to and
is in force in the Indian Territory embraced within the Western District
of Arkansas, and occupied by the Cherokee nation of Indians, notwithstanding the 10th article of the prior treaty of 1866, between the United
States and that nation, by which it was agreed that "every Cherokee Indian and freed person residing in the Cherokee nation shall have the right to
sell any products of his farm, including his or her live stock, or any merchandise
or manufactured products. and to ship and drive the same to market without
restraint, paying any tax thereon which is now or may be levied by the United
States on the quantity sold outside of the Indian territory."
2. An act of Congress may supersede a prior treaty.

ERROR to the District Court for the Western District of
Arkansas; the case involving, first, the question of the intention of Congress, and, second,'assuming the intention to
exist, the question of its power, to tax certain tobacco in
the territory of the Cherokee nation, in the face of a prior

treaty between that nation and the United States, that such
tobacco should be exempt from taxation.
The case was elaborately argued orally or on briefs, by
Messrs. .E. C. Boudinot, A. Pike, R. W. Johnson, and B. F.

Dec. 1870.]

THE

CHEROKEE

TOBACCO.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Butler,for the claimants; and by Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General, and Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General,for the United States.
Mr. Justice SWAYNITE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of the Western
District of Arkansas. The case, so far as it is necessary to
state it, lies within a narrow compass.
The proceeding was instituted by the defendants in error
to procure the condemnation and forfeiture of the tobacco in
question, and of the other property described in the libel of
information, for alleged violations, which are fully set forth,
of the revenue laws of the United States. Elias C. Boudinot,
for himself and his copartner, Stand Wattie, interposed, and
by his answer submitted, among others, the followng allegations: That the firm were the sole owners of the property
described in the libel; that the property was found and seized
in the Cherokee nation, outside of any revenue collection
district of the United States; that the manufacturing of the
tobacco was-carried on in the Cherokee nation, and that the
manufactured tobacco, raw material, and other property,
were never within any collection district, nor subject to the
taxes mentioned in the libel, nor were the owners bound to
comply with the requirements of the revenue laws of Congress; that the revenue laws were complied with as to all
tobacco sold or offered for sale outside of said Indian country, if any such there were; that the claimants are Cherokee
Indians by blood, and residents of the Cherokee nation, and
they deny that the property had become forfeited as alleged
in the libel.
At the trial, the claimants moved the court to instruct the
jury that the act of Congress, entitled "An Act imposing
taxes on distilled spirits, and for other purposes," approved
July 20th, 1868, is not in force in any part of the Indian
territory embraced in the Western District of Arkansas;
that the 10th article of the treaty of 1866, between the Cherokee nation and the United States, was in full force with
reference to the territory of the Cherokee nation; that the

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

67th section of the act of 1868 requires stamps to be sold
only to manufacturers of tobacco in the respective collection
districts, and that it gave the claimants no legal right to
buy such stamps to place on their tobacco in the Cherokee
nation, and that they are not responsible for not having done
so. The court refused to give these instructions. The jury
found for the United States, and judgment was entered accordingly. The claimants excepted to the refusal of the
court to give the instructions asked for, and have brought
the case here for review.
The only question argued in this court, and upon which
our decision must depend, is the effect to be given respectively to the 107th section of the act of 1868,* and the 10th
article of the treaty of 1866, between the United States and
the Cherokee nation of Indians.
They are as follows:
"Section 107. That the internal revenue laws imposing taxes
on distilled spirits, fermented liquors, tobacco, snuff, and cigars,
shall be construed to extend to such articles producedanywhere
within the exterior boundaries of the United States, whether
the same shall be within a collection district or not."
"Article 10th. Every Cherokee Indian and freed person residing in the Cherokee nation shall have the right to sell any
products of his farm, including his or her live stock, or any
merchandise or manufactured products, and to ship and drive
the same to market without restraint, paying any tax thereon
which is now or may be levied by the United States on the
quantity sold outside of the Indian territory."
On behalf of the claimants it is contended that the 107th
section was not intended to apply, and does not apply, to the
country of the Cherokees, and that the immunities secured
by the treaty are in full force there. The United States
insist that the section applies with the same effect to the
territory in question as to any State or other territory of the
United States, and that to the extent of the provisions of
the section the treaty is annulled.
* 15 Stat. at Large, 167.

Dec. 1870.]

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.
Opinion of the court.

Con3idering the narrowness of the questions to be decided,
a remarkable wealth of learning and ability have been expended in their discussion. The views of counsel in this
court have rarely been more elaborately presented. Nevertheless, the case seems to us not difficult to be determined,
and to require no very extended line of remarks to vindicate
the soundness of the conclusions at which we have arrived.
In The Cherokee Nation v. Georgia,* Chief Justice Mlarshall,
delivering the opinion of this court, said: "The Indian territory is admitted to compose a part of the United States.
In all our geographical treatises, histories, and laws it is so
considered." In The United States v. Rogers,t Chief Justice
Taney, also speaking for the court, held this language: "It
is our duty to expound and execute the law as we find it,
and we think, it too firmly and clearly established to admit
of dispute that the Indian tribes residing within the territorial limits of the United States are subject to their authority, and where the country occupied by them is not within
the limits of one of the States Congress may, by law, punish
any offence committed there, no matter whether the offender
be a white man or an Indian." Both these propositions are
so well settled in our jurisprudence that it would be a waste
of time to discuss them or to refer to further authorities in
their support. There is a long and unbroken current of
legislation and adjudications, in accordance with them, and
we are aware of nothing in conflict with either. The subject, in its historical aspect, was fully examined in Johnson
v. .XMctosh.t In the 11th section of the act of the 24th of
June, 1812, it was provided "that it shall be lawful for any
person or persons to whom letters testamentary or of administration shall have been or may hereafter be granted by
the proper authority in any of the United States or the territoriesthereof to maintain any suit," &c. In Mackey v. Coxe,ยง
it was held that the Cherokee country was a territory of the
United States, within the meaning of this act. The 107th
* 5 Peters, 17.

8 'Wheaton, 574.

- 4 Howard, 572.
18 Howard, 103.

THE

CHEROKEE TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the. court.

section of the act of 1868 extends the revenue laws only as
to liquors aud tobacco over the country in question. Nowhere would frauds to an enormous extent as to these articles be more likely to be perpetrated if this provision were
withdrawn. Crowds, it is believed, would be lured thither
by the prospect of illicit gain. This consideration doubtless
had great weight with those by whom the law was framed.
The language of the section is as clear and explicit as could
be employed. It embraces indisputably the Indian territories. Congress not having thought proper to exclude them,
it is not for this court to make the exception. If the exemption had been intended it would doubtless have been
expressed. There being no ambiguity, there is no room for
construction. It would be out of place.* The section must
be held to meailwhat the language imports. -Whena statute
is Clear and imperative, reasoning ab inconvenienti is of no
avail. It is the duty of courts to execute it.t Further discussion of the subject is unnecessary. We think it would
be like trying to prove a self-evident truth. The effort
may confuse and obscure but cannot enlighten. It never
strengthens the pre-existing conviction.
But conceding these views to be correct, it is insisted that
the section cannot apply to the Cherokee nation because it
is in conflict with the treaty. Undoubtedly one or the other
must yield. The repugnancy is clear and they cannot stand
together.
The second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States declares that "this Constitution
and the laws of the United States which shall be made in
pursuance thereof, and all treaties which shall be made under
the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law
of the land."
It need hardly be said that a treaty cannot change the
Constitution or be held valid if it be in violation of that in* United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheaton, 95.

t Mirehouse v. Rennel, 1 Clark & Finelly, 527; Wolff v. Koppel, 2 Denio,
872.

Dec. 1870.]

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.
Opinion of the court.

strument. This results from the nature and fundamental
principles of our government. The effect of treaties and
acts of Congress, when in conflict, is not settled by the Constitution. ' But the question is not involved in any doubt as
to its proper solution.

A treaty may supersede a prior act

of Congress,* and an act of Congress may supersede a prior
treaty.t in the cases referred to these principles were applied to treaties with foreign nations. Treaties with Indian
nations within the jurisdiction of the United States, whatever considerations of humanity and good faith may be involved and require their faithful observance, cannot be more
obligatory. They have no higher sanctity; and no greater
inviolability or immunity from legislative invasion can be
claimed for them. The consequences in all such cases give
rise to questions which must be met by the political department of the government. They are beyond the sphere of
judicial cognizance. In the case under consideration the
act of Congress must prevail as if the treaty were not an
element to be considered. If a wrong has been done the
power of redress is with Congress, not with the judiciary,
and that body, upon being applied to, it is to be presumed,
will promptly-give the proper relief.
Does the section thus construed deserve the severe strictures which have been applied to it? As before remarked,
it extends the revenue laws over the Indian territories only
as to liquors and tobacco. In all other respects the Indians
in those territories are exempt. As regards those articles
only the same duties are exacted as from our own citizens.
The burden must rest somewhere. Revenue is indispensable to meet the public necessities. Is it unreasonable that
this Small portion of it shall rest upon these Indians ? The
frauds that might otherwige be perpetrated there by others,
under the guise of Indian names and simulated Indian ownership, is also a consideration not to be overlooked.
We are glad to know that there is no ground for any im.
* Foster & Elam v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 314.
t Taylor v. Iorton, 2 Curtis, 454; The Clinton Bridge, 1 Walworth, 155

THE

CHEROKEE TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

putation upon the integrity or good faith of the claimants
who prosecuted this writ of error. In a case not free from
doubt and difficulty they acted under a misapprehension of
their legal rights.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY (with whom concurred Mir. Justice DAVIS), dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court just read. In my
judgment it was not the intention of Congress to extend the
internal revenue law to the Indian territory. That territory
is an exempt jurisdiction. Whilst the United States has
not relinquished its power to make such regulations as it
may deem necessary in relation to that territory, and whilst
Congress has occasionally passed laws affecting it, yet by
repeated treaties the government has in effect stipulated
that in all ordinary cases the Indian populations shall be
autonomies, invested with the power to make and execute
all laws for their domestic government. Such being the
case, all laws of a general character passed by Congress will
be considered as not applying to the Indian territory, unless
expressly mentioned. An express law creating certain special rights and privileges is held never to be repealed by
implication by any subsequent law couched in general terms,
nor by any express repeal of all laws inconsistent with such
general law, unless the language be such as clearly to indicate the intention of the.legislature to effect such repeal.
Thus it was held by the Supreme Court of New Jersey in
The State v. Brannin,* that whilst the provisions of a city
charter, it being a municipal corporation, may be repealed
or altered by the legislature at will, yet a general statute
repealing all acts contrary to its provisions will not be held
to repeal a clause in the charter of such a municipal corporation upon the same subject-matter and inconsistent therewith. The same point is decided in numerous other cases.
For example, when a railroad charter, subject to repeal,
* 3 Zabriskie, 484.

Dec. 1870.]

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.
Opinion of Bradley and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

exempted the company from all taxation except a certain
percentage on the cost of its works, it was held that this
exemption was not -repealed by a subsequent general tax
law, enacting that all corporations should be taxed for the
full amount of their property as other persons are taxed, and
repealing all laws inconsistent therewith. But where the
repealing clause in the general law repealed all laws inconsistent therewith, whether general or local and special, it was
held that it did repeal the special exemption.* In every
case the intent of the legislature is to be sought, and in the
case of such special and local exemptions the general rule
for ascertaining whether the legislature does or does not intend to repeal or affect them, is to inquire whether they are
expressly named; if not expressly named, then whether the
language used is such, nevertheless, as clearly to indicate the
legislative intent to repeal or affect them.
In the case before the court, I hold that there is nothing
to indicate such a legislative intent. The language used is
nothing but general language, imposing a general system of
requirements and penalties on the wholecountry. Had it
been the intent of Congress to include the Indian territory,
it would have been very easy to say so. Not having said
so, I hold that the presumption is that Congress did not -intend to include it.
The case before us is, besides, a peculiar one. The exempt
jurisdiction here depends on a solemn treaty entered into
between the United States government and the Cherokee
nation, in which the good faith of the government is involved, and not on a mere municipal law. It is conceded
that the law in question cannot be extended to the Indian
territory without an implied abrogation of the treaty Pro
tanto. And the opinion of the court goes upon the principle
that Congress has the power to supersede the provisions of a
treaty. In such a case there are peculiar reasons for applying with great strictness the rule that the exempt jurisdiction must be expressly mentioned in order to be affected.
* The State v. Minton, lb. 529.

BANK V.

CARROLLTON

RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

This view is strengthened by the fact that there is territory within the exterior bounds of the United States to which
the language of the 107th section of the recent act can apply, without applying it to the Indian territory, to wit, the
territory of Alaska. And it does not appear by the record
that there are not other districts within the general territory
of the United States which are in like predicament.
The judgmeut, according to these views, ought to be
reversed
The CHIEF JUSTICE, and NELSON and FIELD, JJ.,
did not hear the argument.

BANK V. CARROLLTON. RAILROAD.
1. A party coming into the right of a partner, whether by purchase from
such partner (no matter how broad the language of the conveyance may
be) or as his personal representative, or under an execution or commission of bankruptcy, comes into nothing more than an interest in the
partnership, which cannot be tangible, made available, or be delivered
but under an account between the partnership and the partner.
2. Where a complainant's right is thus only an equity to share in the surplus, if any, of the firm property after settlement of the partnership
accounts, the proper bill is a bill for such a settlement. Such bill will
not lie unless all the partners are made parties defendant.
3. Although in general a bill in chancery will not be dismissed for want of
proper parties, the rule resting as it does upon the supposition that.the
fault may be remedied, and the necessary parties supplied, does not
apply when this is impossible, and whenever a decree cannot be made
without prejudice to on i not a party. In such a case the bill must be
dismissed. Hence in a case where if all the partners were made parties
to the bill, the court in which the bill was filed would, from the character of its jurisdiction (which was confined to persons resident within
particular districts, which one of the partners here was not), be without
any jurisdiction of the controversy, the bill must be dismissed.
4. A bill for a settlement of partnership accounts which, without charging
fraudulent confederacy, shows that it is filed not against all the original
partners, but against one of them (yet remaining in the administration
of the firm concerns), and persons who have succeeded to the rights

