Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

REED V. UNITED STATES.
1. An order by the United States to the owners of a vessel, during the rebellion, to get her ready, under pain of impressment, to transport a
cargo to a particular place and back, under which order, though the
owners protested against going, they got ready the vessel, and sailed
with their own officers and crew. Held, not to make the government
owners for the voyage; but to leave the possession with the general
owners under a contract for per diem compensation from the commencement of the voyage until the same was broken up, including also so
many days in addition as would have been spent, if no disaster had
occurred, in completing the return trip.
2. A voyage was held to have been "completely broken up" by a vessel's
being blown aground on the Missouri, in July, 1865 (the owners having then made their protest to cover insurance), she having been swept
off and totally destroyed by an ice freshet in the river nine months afterwards. And this so held, although her engineer, a mate, and three
watchmen were left to take care of her, and a military guard sent to
protect her, until a rise should occur in the river; and though just before the boat was destroyed by the flood and ice, her owners, and the
government, in whcse'employ she was, dispatched a pilot and crew to
where the boat was aground, to get the boat afloat upon the rise of the
river, and to bring her to her home port.
8. The government not having been owner for the voyage, the expenses of
the pilot and crew just named were not chargeable against the United
States, though both were sent by the owners of the vessel, after consultation with the quartermaster of the United States at the port, and
for the purpose of protecting the interests of the government as well as
the interests of themselves.
APPEAL and cross appeal from the Court of Claims, in the
claim of Reed and others; the case, as found by the said
court, being this:
"The claimants were, on the 1st of June, 1865, owners of
the steamer Belleeoria. She was then lying at her wharf
in St. Louis. The said owners were applied to by the United
States quartermaster, at St. Louis, to take a cargo of military supplies to Fort Berthold, on the Missouri River, about
1700 miles from St. Louis. They declined on account of the
lateness of the season. They were then ordered by the quartermaster to prepare for the trip, and informed that in case

REED V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of refusal the boat 'would be impressed. They protested,
but, under the orders, got the boat in readiness, put on the
cargo, and left St. Louis on the 3dof June, 1865. The boat
arrived atFortBerthold on the 22d of July, 1865, discharged
her cargo, and started on her return trip ol the 24th of the
same month. She proceeded until the 26th, when a high
wind sprung up, and she, in attempting to land, was blown'
aground. All efforts to get her off proved unavailing. After
making all the eflbrt that was deemed advisable, and finding it impossible to get her off until a rise should occur in the
river, the officers and crew left her, leaving several persons
in charge. The crew left her on the 31st of July, 1865,
leaving on board one engineer, one mate, and three watchmen, who were to take care of the boat. These remained
until the 30th September. The officer in command at Fort
Rice also detailed and sent a military guard to protect the.
boat. The facts being communicated to the owners at St.
Louis, they made their protest in order to cover the insurance.
The boat remained aground until about the 15th of April,
1866, when by an ice freshet in the Missouri River she was
swept off and totally destroyed. The quartermaster at St. Louis, when he seized the boat,
fixed her per diem compensation at $272. She was paid
at this rate until the 10th day of August, 1865, being the
time when information arrived at St. Louis that she was
aground, and the captain and part of the crew returned.
She was also paid, from the 10th of August to the 30th of
September, at the rate of $101 per day. This was while the
engineer, mate, and watchmen remained on board. From
the 30th of September until the 30th of November, 1865,
vouchers were issued to the claimants at the rate of $80 per
day, which have not been paicL No vouchers were issued
after that date. On the 3d of April, 1866, the claimants
dispatched a pilot and crew up the Missouri River from St.
Louis to where the boat was aground, to get her afloat upon the
rise of the river, and to bring her down to St. Louis. These persons arrived at where the boat had been aground, about the
18th day of April, 1866, and after the boat had been de-

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. "UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

stroyed by the flood and ice. These persons were sent, after
consultation with the quartermaster at St. Louis, and for
the purpose of protecting the *interestsof the United States,
as well as those of the claimants. The just and necessary
expense incurred in these efforts to save the boat amounted
to $2500.
After the destruction of the boat, the claimants applied
to the third auditor, under the provisions of the act of 1849,
and its supplements, for the payment of her value. These
acts provide :*
"That any person . . who shall lose . . or have destroyed
by unavoidable accident any . . steamboat . . while such prop.
erty was in the service (of the United States), shall be allowed

and paid the value thereof, at the time he entered the service.
Provided, it shall appear that such destruction was without any
fault or negligence on the part of the owner of the property,
and while it was actually employed in the service of the United
States."

The claim was allowed and her value, as of the time of
her taking, June 1st, 1865, fixed at $30,000, and which
amount was paid to the claimants. The accounting officers
rejected the claim for the per diem compensation from September 30th, 1865, until April 15th, 1866, when the boat
perished, including the vouchers until November 80th, 1865.
The accounting officers also rejected a claim for $5401.41,
alleged to have been expended in efforts to save the steamboat.
This suit was brought to recover the amount of these
vouchers, and the per diem compensation of the boat from
November 80th, 1865, to April 15th, 1866, and also the ex.
penditure made in efforts to save the boat, making together
the sum of $21,161.41.
The court decided that the claimants were not entitled to
recover the amount of the vouchers up to the 80th of No* Acts of March 3, 1849, and March 3, 1863; 9 Stat. at Large, 415; 12 Id.

743,

5. X

VOL.

XI.

8

REED V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the claimants.

vember, 1865, nor for the per diem compensation of the boat
from November 30th, 1865, till the 15th of April, 1866, but
were entitled to recover the $2500, in efforts expended to
save the boat.
From this decision both parties appealed. The claimants,
because they did not have compensation for the use and
detention of the boat from the 30th September, 1865, when
engineer, mate, and watchmen left the boat, until the 15th
of April, when she was "swept off and totally destroyed."
The United States appealed, because they were charged
with this $2500 expenses.
31r. William Lazorence, of Ohio, for the claimants:
I. As to the appeal by the claimants: The facts as found
show that the implied contract was, to pay for a round trip,
which means all the time necessary to make it, or until it
became impossible.
From September 30th, 1865, when the engineer, mate,
and watchman left the boat, until she was destroyed by an
ice freshet, April 15th, 1866, she was guarded by a government military guard detailed by the officer in command at
Fort Rice. The object of this was, to return the boat to St.
Louis ihe next spring. The boat was blown aground July
26th, 1865. Such officers and crew as were not necessary to
guard the boat, left her, because there was no hope of getting
the boat off until the next spring, and it was desirable to save
expense. Up to this time, from June 1st, the government
paid the full per diem compensation of $27, fixed by the
quartermaster. Why pay for this part of the return voyage
if it was not agreed that all should be paid for and no matter
how long it might require, as long as any voyage was pos-

sible ?
From August 10th to September 30th, during which time
,one engineer, one mate, and three watchmen of the crew
remained aboard, and the boat aground, payment was made
at the rate of $101 per day. Here was a reduction in the
per dieni-a modification of the original contract-because
3nore of the crew were discharged. Why was a reduced per

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the claimants.

diem paid? Still, because the aga'eement, to pay until the
boat returned to St. Louis in the spring, or the voyage was
abandoned as impracticable, continued.
From September 30th to lNovember 30th, 1865, quarteimaster's vouchers were issued to the plaintiffs, at the rate of
$80 per day. The quartermaster was the officer charged
with the duty of providing transportation, and his vouchers
prove that his contract was a continuing one till the return of the boat; a matter then contemplated as certain to
take place in the spring. That arrangement could not be
terminated except by mutual consent, and it never was terminated until the boat was destroyed.The boat was destroyed and the voyage rendered impossible April 15th, 1866, and not before. The right of the
owners to recover the value of the boat from the government, depended by the statutes applicable to the case (those
of March 3d, 1849, and March 3d, 1863), on the fhct that
it was then "actually employed in the service of the United
States." Under these acts the third auditor allowed the
claim of $30,000 for the value of the boat as of the time of
her taking, June 1st, 1865, and the claim was paid by the
government. This allowance and payment necessarily found
the fact that the boat was actually employed in the service of the United States on the 15th April, 1866, and the
government is now estopped from controverting that fact.
If the boat was in the actual service that day it had been in
like service during all the previous time, and the facts show
it was in such service under contract for pay.
When the captain and most of the crew, abandoning all
hope of bringing the steamer to St. Louis during the current season, left het to lie aground till the next spring, there
was no purpose to abandon the return voyage, but the purpose was to resume it as soon as the rise of the river made
it practicable. All this was with the sanction of the government, and the boat left in charge of government officers
and soldiers, to the end that the return trip might be completed next spring. The facts determined by the Court of

REED V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the claimants.

Claims show that it "was impossible to get her (the boat)
off until a rise should occur in the river,"
The justice of this claim is clear. The court takes judicial notice of climate and rivers. The court know that the
plaintiff's boat could have navigated the rivers south of
St. Louis, and it is presumed would have earned freight
from September 30th, 1865, to April 15th, 1866. The plaintiffs, when applied to by the quartermaster, on June 1st, to
go from St. Louis, 1700 miles up the Missouri River, to
Fort Berthold, "declined on account of the lateness of the
season." They knew that the treacherous sands of the Missouri, and hazardous gales and receding waters, would probably, as they did, leave them aground for the winter, and
deprive them of safer trade, and pay which required no
quartermaster's vouchers, no auditor's adjustment, no Court
of Claims, no lawyer's fees, and none of this almost endless
delay. And having been deprived of the winter's trade in
milder waters, and of speedier pay, why should they not
now be paid, as the Constitution requires, "just compensation" for all the time their boat was detained by reason
of what the government officers did? They only ask that
compensation which they could have earned elsewhere, for
compensation for time during which the government has
admitted their boat was "actually employed in the service
of the United States." Why should they not have it?
The grounding was not the proximate, nor even remote
cause which destroyed her. The facts found by the Court
of Claims are that the boat, on her return trip, was blown"
aground July 26th, 1865, and that"The boat remained aground until about the 15th of April, 1866,
when, by an ice freshet in the Missouri River, she was swept off
and totally destroyed."
The ice freshet, then, was the proximate, and really the
only cause of the loss. The grounding was a peril, but it
did not continue, for the boat was "swept off" from her
grounding peril, and a totally different peril finally, and after

Dec.1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the claimants.

the termination of the grounding, destroyed her.- They may
have been successive or bumulative perils, but the grounding was in no sense a continuing peril, which finally destroyed the boat. If the claimants had sued the United
States and averred a destruction of the boat only by the
grounding, the evidence would not have sustained the allegation. The government has already decided that the boat
was in the actual service of the United States on the 15th
April, 1866, and there could be no constructive actual loss
before that.
It is text in the law of insurance that grounding is not a
constructive total loss. Parsons says:
"So stranding, which means the being cast on shore, may or
may not be an actual total loss. The mere flet that she (the
boat) rests on land or rock, and at low tide is high and dry
there, does not, of itself, constitute this total loss; for the next
high tide may lift her from the bottom, and if it cannot do this
without assistance, it may be practically possible to use means
to draw her off."*
In Patrickv. Commercial Insurance Conpany,t Kent, 0. J.,
says:
"It is well understood that stranding is not ipso facto a total
loss."
So in Pede v. Suffolk Insurance Cornpany,$ Parker, 0. J.,
said:
"The mere stranding, however perilous, is not of itself a total
loss, for the vessel may be relieved, and the damages may be
small."
The finding does not show the destruction of the boat by
the grounding; nor any facts which would justify an abandonment as for total loss. The date and fact of the liability
of the United States is only fixed by the proximate cause of
the loss-the ice freshet of April 15th, 1866. This is the
2 Marine Insurance, 72.

t 11 Johnston, 9.

7 Pickering, 254.

REED V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

reasonable rule as against insurers on a policy, and is certainly so as to the United States, under the act of March 3d,
1849.*
Suppose, ii1 this case, the contract had provided that in
no event should the boat be continued in service longer than
April 1st, 1866, by the very terms of the law the United
States could not have been held liable for the destruction of
the boat on the 15th of April, because the boat was not
then destroyed. There was then no liability for the boat
fixed until April 15th, and if not the liability for services
continued to that time.
Although there was a protest made to cover the insurance, there was no abandonment of the voyage when the
vessel ran aground, nor till the boat was finally lost. When
the protest wag made does not definitely appear, but it was
made "in order to cover the insurance," not against the
United States, but under a supposed or real policy of insurance. The boat was blown aground July 26th. Then, as
the facts show"All efforts to get her off proved unavailing, and finding it
impossible to get her off until a rise should occur in the river, the
crew left her on the 31st July, 1865, leaving on board one engineer, one mate. and three watchmen to take care of the boat."
The engineer, watchmen, and mate remained on board
until September 30th. The United States officer in command at Fort Rice detailed and sent a military guard ter
protect the boat, and they remained until her destruction.
The officers left her with the assent of the government, as an
economic measure to save the useless expense of a crew.
Then the case shows that"On the 3d of April, 1866, the claimants dispatched a crew
up the Missouri River, from St. Louis, to where the boat was
aground, to get her afloat upon the rise of the river, and to
bring her down to St. Louis."
2 Parsons, Marine Insurance, 108 n.; De Blois v. Ocean Insurance Co.,
16 Pickering, 303.

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.

Argument for the claimants.

"Down to St. Louis" for whom?

Of course for these

plaintiffs. Here is' the highest evidence that there never
was any intention to abandon the boat. Neither the United
States nor any insurance company ever took or held the boat
as theirs; never accepted any abandonment, and niever were
asked to do so. No protest or notice was ever served on the
United States, nor in fact on any insurance company; nor
was any demand made on the United States for pay for the
value of the boat until after she was destroyed. But the
protest, as affecting rights under a policy of insurance,
against an insurance company, was at most only precautionary; and a mere precautionary measure, never perfected
or pursued, cannot establish any right under a policy, much
less under another contract.
The boat was in the service of the government, under a
contract for a return trip. If the ice freshet had not destroyed the boat, it would have been completed. The crew
was sent up the Missouri River in the spring of 1866, for
the purpose of completing it. All parties treated the contract as subsisting up to that time. If it had been completed
no question would have been raised against the right to pay
for the use of the boat during the whole time.
H. As to the cross-appealby t e United States; the claim for
time, services, and expenses of the crew sent to recover and
return the boat in April, 1866.
The boat was in the custody and under the control of the
government when she went aground, July 26, 1865.
On the 81st July, 1865, the crew left the boat in care of a
military guard, with the approval of the military officers, to
save expense, intending, however, " to get her off" when
"a rise should occur in the river," in the spring.
The crew was sent out in April, 1866, "after consultation
with the quartermaster at St. Louis, and for the purpose of
protecting the interests of the United States as well as those
of the eldimants ;" that is, the crew was sent up to return
with the boat to St. Louis.
The boat was "actually employed in the service of the

REED V. UZNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

United States," April 15, 1866, and the destruction of the
boat "was without any fault or negligence on the part of the
owners." The case so comes within the statute.
As to the services and expenses of the crew, here are all
the elements of an implied if not ain express contract by the
government to pay for them. They were rendered and incurred at the instance and request of the proper military
officer, or with his sanction, and this was in pursuance of
the pre-existing arrangement made when the crew left the
boat, July 81, 1865, and the original purpose of the voyage.
If the crew had succeeded in returning the boat to plaintiff
at St. Louis, could any question have been made as to the
liability of the United States to pay ? The services of the
crew were only suspended during the winter; they had not
abandoned the service.
Mr. Akerrnan, Attorney-General, and Hr. Talbot, Assistant
Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court, both in the appeal by Reed and the cross appeal by
the United States.
I. IN THE APPEAL.

Affreightment contracts are of two kinds, and they differ
from each other very widely in their nature as well as in
their terms and legal effect.
Charterers or freighters may become the owners for the
voyage without any salp or purchase of the ship, as in cases
where they hire the ship and have by the terms of the contract, and assume in fact, the exclusive possession, command, and navigation of the vessel for the stipulated voyage.
But where the general owner retains the possession, command, and navigation of the ship and contracts for a specified
voyage, as, for example, to carry a cargo from one port to
another, the arrangement in contemplation of law is a mere
affreightment sounding in contract and not a demise of the

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

vessel, and the charterer or freighter is not clothed with the
character or legal responsibility of ownership.*
Unless the ship herself is let to hire, and the owner parts
with the possession, command, and navigation of the same,
the charterer or freighter is not to be regarded as the owner
for the voyage, as the master, while the owner retains the
possession, command, and navigation of the ship, is the
agent of the general owner and the mariners are regarded
as in his employment and he is responsible for their conduct.t
Courts of justice are not inclined to regard the contract
as a demise of the ship if the end in view can conveniently
be accomplished without the transfer of the vessel to the
charterer, but where the vessel herself is demised or let to
hire, and the general owner parts with the possession, command, and navigation of the ship, the hirer becomes the
owner during the term of the contract, and if need be he
may appoint the master and ship the'mariners, and he becomes responsible for their acts.:
On the first day-of June, 1865, the assistant quartermaster
of the United States, stationed at St. Louis, applied to the
plaintiffs, as the owners of the steamboat Belle Peoria, to
transport a cargo of military supplies from that port to Fort
Berthold, but the owners of the steamboat declined on account of the lateness of the season. fHe then ordered them
to prepare for the trip, and informed them that in case of
refusal the steamboat would be impressed. They protested,
but under the orders given got the boat in readiness, put
the cargo on board, and on the 3d of June, 1865, left St.
Louis for the place of destination where the steamboat ar* Donahoe v. Kettell, 1 Clifford, 137; The Volunteer, 1 Sumner, 551;

The Spartan, Ware, 153; Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheaton, 605; Clarkson V.
Edes, 4 Cowan, 470; Taggard v. Loring, 16 Massachusetts, 336; Christie v.
Lewis, 2 Broderip & Bingham, 410.
t Putnam v. Wood, 3 Massachusetts, 481.
$ Sherman v. Fream, 30 Barbour, 478; Reeve v. Davis, 1 Adolphus &
Ellis, 312; Frazer v. Marsh, 13 East, 238; Xarcardier v. Chesapeake Insurance Co., 8 Cranch, 39; 1 P9xsons on Shipping, 278; Campbell v. Perkins, 4 Selden, 430.

REED V. iTNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rived on the 22d of July following, when she discharged her
cargo and on the 24th of the same month started down the
river on her return, trip. She proceeded for two days in
safety, when a high wind "sprung up," and in attempting
to land she was blown ashore and grounded. All efforts to
get her off proved unavailing, and believing it impossible
to do so until a rise should occur in the river, the master,
most of the other officers, and crew decided to retur'n, leaving on board the mate, one engineer, and three watchmen
to take care of the boat, aided by a military guard detailed
and sent from Fort.Rice by the officer in command at that
post. Information that the steamboat was aground reached
the owners at St. Louis on the 10th of August, 1865, but
she remained aground until the 15th of April of the next
year, when she was swept off by an ice-freshet in the river
and totally destroyed. When the assistant quartern'aster
ordered the owners to prepare for the trip he fixed the per
diem compensation of the boat at $272, which pppears to
have been satisfactory to the owners, as they were paid at
that rate to the time they received information of the disaster, and they have presented no claim for any greater allowance for that period of time. They were also paid at the
rate of $101 per day from the said 10th of August to the
80th of September in the same year, covering the period, as
stated in the finding, that the mate, engineer, and the three
watchmen remained on board after the master and the rest
of the officers and crew returned. Vouchers were also issued
to the plaintiffs at the rate of $80 per day from the 80th of
September of the same year to the 30th of November following, but those vouthers have never been paid or recognized, and the plaintiffs sued the United States for the
amount of those vouchers and for compensation for the use
of the steamboat at the same rate from the time the last
voucher was issued to the time when the steamboat was
swept off from the place .where she was grounded by the
ice-freshet in the river and totally destroyed.
Although the plaintiffs objected to the order of the quartermaster at the time it was given, still it is quite evident

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

that they ultimately consented to perform the service as
matter of contract, and that they were content to receive
the per diem compensation fixed by the assistant quartermaster at the time he gave the order. Abundant conifirmation of that view is found, if any be needed, in the fact that
they voluntarily accepted the prescribed per diem compensation from the commencement of the trip to the 10th of
August following, when they received information of the
disaster, which was at the time when the master and all the
steamboat's company, except the mate, one engineer, and
three watchmen, returned to the port of departure, and that
the plaintiffs make no claim for any additional conipensation during that period. Compulsion is not set up by the
plaintifFs, and, if it was, the theory could not be supported,
as the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims does not extend to
torts. They have also been paid for the value of the steamboat, and also a per diem compensation of $101 per day
from the 10th of August to the 80th of September, which
is the date when the mate, engineer, and the three watchmen also left the steamboat and returned to St. Louis. No
additional compensation is claimed for that period, but they
claim for the amount of the vouchers issued at the rate of
$80 per day for the two months next succeeding that period,
and at the same rate from the end of that period to the 15th
of April in the following year, when the steamboat was
swept off by the ice-freshet and was totally destroyed.
Judgment was rendered for the claimants for certain
moneys, not involved in this appeal, which were expended
by them in efforts to save the steamboat, but the petition,
so far as respects the per diem compensation, was dismissed,
and the claimants appealed to this court.
Throughout the litigation the plaintiffs have prosecuted
their claim as a matter of contract, and it is quite clear that
it- could have no other foundation in the court where the
suit was brought, and of course it must depend upon the
proper application of the principles of commercial law to the
facts of the case as found by the Court of Claims.
By the terms of the contract, they were to carry the cargo

604

REED V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

of military supplies from the port of St. Louis up the Missouri River to Fort Berthold for $272 per day during the
voyage, including the return trip as well as the trip to the
place of destination, in full compensation for the entire services. By necessary implication the plaintiffs were to victual
and man the steamboat and keep her in a seaworthy condition, and in contemplation of law they retained the possession, control, and navigation of the steamboat, as the master
was one of their own selection and the crew were in their
own employment, and they were responsible for their conduct. Steamers require fuel as a means of creating motive
power, and it is quite obvious that it was the duty of the
plaintiffs to supply the steamboat with fuel for that purpose
as well as provisions for the officers and crew, and that the
master was their agent and not the agent of .the charterers.
Well-founded doubts eannotbe entertained upon that subject,
and if those conclusions of fact are correct then it follows as
a conclusion of law that the plaintiffs, as the general owners
of the steamboat, were also the owners for the voyage, and
that the true relation of the United States to the adventure
was that of a charterer for hire and shipper of the cargo.*
Through the assistant quartermaster at St. Louis the
United States put the cargo on board the steamboat, at a
fixed per diem compensation during the round trip, for transporting the military supplies constituting the cargo to the
place of destination, the steamboat having the right to take
a return cargo from other shippers or to return in ballast, at
the election of her owners. She performed the trip up the
river and delivered the cargo in good condition and started
on the return trip, the United States, as the charterers,
having no further interest in the voyage except that the
steamboat should return to the port of departure without
delay. All sea risks were unquestionably upon the owners
of the steamboat, as they were the owners for the voyage as
well as the owners in fact, and the record shows that they
must have so understood their own rights, as the statement
* Saville v. Campion, 2 Barnewall & Alderson, 510.

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

in the record is that when they received information of the
disaster "they made their protest in order to cover the insurance."
SVggestion may be made that the act of the United States
inpaying for the value of the steamboat after she was swept
off by the ice-freshet and destroyed is inconsistent with the
theory that they were merely the charterers for hire, and
that the plaintiffs were the owners for the voyage as well as
the owners in fact, but the adjudication of the third auditor
cannot change the rights of the parties in respect to any
matters not within his jurisdiction.* Whether that adjudication was correct or incorrect is not a question in this case,
and it is only referred to as showing that it cannot have any
weight in the decision of the case before the court.
Freight, it is said, cannot be earned unless the voyage is
performed and the cargo is delivered; but the voyage in
this case, so far as respects the cargo, was performed and
the cargo was duly delivered to the consignees, and to that
extent the freight was earned; but the plaintiffs were entitled, under the contract, to the same per diem compensation
during the return trip in case it was performed without unnecessary delay, and it may be that the United States could
not have claimed any deduction from the agreed compensation if the interruption in the voyage had been only a temporary one, and the master, when the cause of interruption
had been removed or overcome, had proceeded with the
steamboat to the return port.
Whatever repairs became necessary in consequence of the
disaster would have been a charge to the steamboat or her
owners, but it may be that the plaintiffs wbuld have been
entitled to the agreed compensation for the days spent in
executing the repairs as well as for the days actually spent
in the return trip, but it is not necessary to decide those
questions in this case, and the court does not express any
decided opinion upon the subject.t
* 9 Stat. at Large, 415.

Abbott on Shipping, 43; Hawkins v. Twizell, 6 Ellis & Blackburn,
88 ; Havelock v. Geddes, 10 East, 655.

REED V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

But the interruption in the voyage was not merely a temporary one in any proper sense of the term. On the contrary the voyage was completely broken up, as fully appears from the fact that the master and all the crew ultimately abandoned the steamboat, leaving her where she was
stranded, and that she remained there until the 15th of April
of the next year, when she was swept off by the ice freshet
and became a total loss. Broken up, as the voyage was,
by the perils of navigation, no doubt is entertained that the
plaintifis were entitled to the agreed per diem compensation
to that time, and to such further allowance at the same rate
and for such additional time as it would have required for
the steamboat to have completed the return trip. They had
performed the whole of the stipulated service for the United
States and had delivered the cargo to the assignees, and were
proceeding on the return trip in good faith, when the voyage
was broken up by causes beyond their control and without
any fault on their part or on the part of the master or crew.
Unless a carrier assumes the risk of all contingencies, he is
not liable because he fails to perform what is rendered impossible by the perils of the sea. Such events as are known
as the accidents of major force, or fortuitous events, or the
acts of God, always constitute an implied condition in every
such engagement.* N~either party is at liberty to abandon
the contract without the consent of the other, or without legal
cause, and such cause must not be one procured or occasioned
by the fault of the party who relies upon it.t
Different views have been expressed by different courts as
to the effect of a temporary interruption of a voyage upon
the rights of the owner of the ship and the shipper or charterer; but the rule seems to be well settled, that when the
voyage is broken up by a sea peril, that neither the shipper
nor the charterer is in general liable to the ship-owner beyond the time when the peril occurred; but that rule is more
particularly applicable in cases where the transportation of
* The Eliza, Davies's Admiralty, 318.

t Clark v. Insurance Co., 2 Pickering, 108.

Dec. 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

the cargo is not complete, and it cannot be applied at all to
the case before the court without considerable qualification.*
Reasonably construed, the contract gives the plaintiffs the
agreed per diem compensation from the commencement of
the voyage until the same was broken up, including also so
many days in addition as would have been spent, if no disaster had occurred, in completing the return trip. Apply
that rule to the case, and it is clear that the judgment of the
court below must be affirmed, as the United States, upon
the most liberal computation, have paid more than the contract would entitle the plaintiffs to demand. Payment was
made to the time when the mate, engineer, and three watchmen returned home, and the plaintiffs have no right to claim
aiything more.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

II. IN

THE

Cross

APPEAL.

Supplies for the military service were transported by the
appellees from St. Louis up the Missouri River to Fort Berthold, as more fully explained by the court in the case just
decided. They were the owners of the steamboat Belle
Peoria, and it appears by the findings in the court below
that the assistant quartermaster at that station, on the ist
day of June, 1865, applied to them to take such a cargo and
transport it to that place. Objections. were made by the
owners of the steamboat, as explained in the preceding case;
but they put the cargo on board, and on the 3d of the same
month started on the upward trip, and it appears that they
made the trip in safety, delivered the cargo to the consignees, and without any unnecessary delay started on the
return trip. Two days after they started on the return trip
the steamboat encountered a high wind, and while those in
charge of her were endeavoring to land she -was blown
aground and became fast. All efforts to get her off proving
*

Palmer v. Lorillard, 16 Johnson, 352.

608

REED V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

unavailing, the officers and crew, except the mate, one engineer, and three watchmen, left her and returneol to the
port of departure. By the findings, it appears that the
mate, one engineer, and three watchmen remained on board
to the 30th of September of the same year, when they also
left the steamer and returned.
Claim was made by the present appellees, in the case just
decided, for compensation for the service performed in ad.
dition to what they had received; but it is unnecessary to
entet into any of those details, except to say that the boat
remained aground until the 15th of April of the following
year, when.she was swept off by an ice freshet, and was totally
destroyed. 'Before that occurred, however, the owners of
the steamboat dispatched a pilot and crew up the river to
the place where the steamboat was aground, to get her afloat
and bring her down the river, but the steamboat had been
swept off and destroyed three days before they arrived at
the place of the disaster. Expenses of course were incurred
for the wages of the pilot and crew, and for'provisions and
transportation, and the court below found that those expenses amounted to the sum of $2500, and for that sum the
Court of Claims rendered judgment for the appellees, and
the United States appealed to this court.
Apart from what appears in the opinion delivered in the
other appeal, the only facts found by the court below in
support of the claim are what is exhibited in the following
statement: "These persons, meaning the pilot and crew,
were sent, after consultation with the quartermaster at St.
Louis, and for the purpose of protecting the interests of the
United States as well as those of the claimants."
Unless the United States, in contemplation of law, were
the owners of the steamboat for the voyage, they had no
property interests in the stranded steamboat, as the cargo
had, two days before the disaster occurred, been safely discharged at the place of destination and duly delivered to the
consignees.

They were not owners for the voyage, as the

court has just decided, so that if the statement is founded

1Dec 1870.]

REED V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

on that theory it is error, and entitled to no weight; and if
not founded on that theory, it does not appear to rest on any
substantial foundation, as the court has decided in the other
appeal that the appellees, as the general owners and owners
for the voyage, assumed all risks from sea perils for the
entire trip.
Temporary delays, if any had occurred, might have increased the per diem compensation which the United States
had agreed to pay; but the voyage had been broken up and
frustrated more than six months before the pilot and crew
were sent to the place of the disaster for the purpose of getting the steamboat afloat. Suppose, however, that it could
be admitted that the United States had some property interests in the steamboat, still the admission would not benefit
the appellees, as it is perfectly clear that th6 assistant quartermaster had no authority to bind the United States in any
such arrangement. He did not attempt to make any contract, and nothing of the kind can be inferred from the
finding of the court, even if it be competent for this court
to make inferences to support the judgment, which is not
admitted. All that is found is that the owners of the steamboat consulted with the quartermaster before they dispatched
the pilot and crew to the scene of the disaster, which falls
very far short of evidence to prove a contract, even if the
quartermaster had been invested with authority for any such
purpose. Viewed in any light, tle record does not show
any legal foundation for the judgment.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND THE CAUSE REMANDED
WITH DIRECTIONS TO DISMISS THE PETITION.

VOL XL

