UNITED, STATES V. HOWELL.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

that State, and from the inherent law of its nature could
not emigrate or become a citizen elsewhere. As the boats
were laid up on the Illinois shore when not in use, and the
pilots and engineers who ran them lived there, that locality,
under the circumstances, must'be taken to be their home
port. They did not so abide within the city as to become
incorporated with and form a part of its personal property.*'
Hence they were beyond the jurisdiction of the authorities
by which the taxes were assessed, and the validity of the
taxes cannot be maintained.t In our opinion, thb facts
found are sufficient to suppoet the judgment.
It has been insisted ably and learnedly by the counsel for
the defendant in error, that the taxes in question are taxes
upon the tonnage of vessels engaged in interstate commerce,
and are prohibited by the Constitution of the United States.
No argument as to this aspect of the case has been submitted
by the counsel upon the other side. We have not found it
necessary to consider the subject, and we express no opinion
upon it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. HOWELL.
1. The sixth section of the act of February 25th, 1862, to punish the counterfeiting of treasury notes is not void for repugnancy in its reference
to uttering or passing such counterfeited notes.
2. Nor is an indictment pursuing the language of the statute bad because it
describes the note passed by the prisoner as a false, forged, and counterfeit note of the United States, issued under the authority of that statute
or of other statutes authorizing the issue of such notes.
3. The words "false, forged, and counterfeit," necessarily imply that the
instrument s6 characterized is not genuine, but only purports to be, or
is in the similitude of such an instrument, and this implication is according to good usage and is supported by adjudged cases.

ON a certificate of division between the judges of the
Circuit Court for the District of California.
* Hays v.Pacific Steamship Company, 17 Howard, 599; City of New
Albany v.Neekin, 3 Indiana, 481.
t Railroad Company v.Jaclison, 7 'Wallace, 262.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HOWELL.
Statement of the case.

Howell was indicted for passing counterfeit treasury notes,
under the sixth section of the act of February 25th, 1862,*
which provides:
"That if any person or persons shall falsely make, forge,
counterfcit, or alter, or cause or procure to be falsely made,
forged, counterfeited, or altered, or shall willingly aid or assist
in falsely making, forging, counterfeiting, or altering any note,
bond, coupon, or other security issued under the authority of
this act, or heretofore issued under acts to authorize the issue
of.treasury notes or bonds; or shall pass, utter, publish, or sell,
or attempt to -pass, utter, publish, or sell, or bring into the
United States from any foreign place, with intent to pass, utter,
publish, or sell, or shall have or keep in possession, or conceal
with intent to utter, publish or sell, any such false, forged, counterfeited, or altered note, bond, coupon, or other security, with intent to defraud any body corporate or politic, or any other person or persons whatsoever, every person so offending shall be
deemed guilty of felony, and shall, on conviction thereof, be
punished by fine not exceeding $5000 and by imprisonment and
confinement to hard labor not exceeding fifteen years, according to the aggravation of the offence."
The indictment contained two counts.
The first count charges that the defendant "feloniously
did pass, utter, publish, and sell, a certain false, forged, and
counterfeited United States note, purporting to be a United
States iiote issued under the authority of" said act, with
intent to defraud, &c., well knowing the same to be false,
forged, and counterfeited.
The second charged that the defendant "feloniously did
pass, utter, publish, and sell, a certain false, forged, and
counterfeited treasury note, issued under the authority of"
said act, with intent to defraud, &c., well knowing the same
to be false, forged, and counterfeited.
Demurrer to the indictment and joinder. Afterwards, on
argument, the following questions occurred:
"1. Whether the second count in the indictment, in manner
and form as therein stated, is in itself repugnant.
12 Stat. at Large, 347.
VOL. XI.

28

UNITED STATES

v. HOWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the statute.

"2. Whether the sixth section of the act is repugnant; and
whether any person could, under the said act, be legally convicted of and punished for any offence whatever other than
that of altering, and causing and procuring to be altered, and
willingly aiding and assisting in altering a note, bond, coupon,
or other security issued under authority of said act.
"3. Whether the fourth paragraph or clause of the sixth sec-tion of the act, which is in the words following, to wit:
" ' Or shall pass, utter, publish, or sell, or attempt to pass, utter, publish,
or sell, or bring into the United States from any foreign place, with intent
to pass, utter, publish, or sell, or shall have or keep in possession, or conceal, with intent to utter, publish or sell, any such false, forged, counterfeited or altered note, bond, coupon, or other security, with intent to defraud, '

&c., is repugnant.
"4. Whether the defendant could, under the said fourth paragraph or clause, be legally convicted of and punished for uttering or passing a forged or counterfeit note purporting to be a
United States or treasury note issued under authority of said
act.

•

"5. Whether he could, under the said fourth paragraph or
clause, be legally convicted of and punished for any offence
whatever, other than 'passing, uttering, publishing, or selling,'
&c., an ' altered note, bond, coupon, or other security,'" &c.
On each of which questions the opinions of the judges
were opposed. Whereupon the disagreement was certified
to this court.
Mr. D. T. Sullivan,for the prisoner:

.First. The indictment is repugnant and inconsistent in
itself.
How could the note be a "false, forged, and counterfeit"
note if it was issued under the authority of an act of Congress? The object of issuing treasury notes is that they
may be "passed, uttered, published, and sold;" and how
can the defendant, Howell, be guilty of a criminal act .by
doing that which it was the very object of the act should be
done? The use of the adjectives "false, forged, and couu-

Dec.1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HOWELL.

Opinion of the court.

terfeit" are inconsistent with and repugnant to the allegation that the note was i~sued under proper authority; nor
are qualifying words of themselves, even if there be no repugnancy or inconsistency in the indictment, sufficient to
make a criminal offence.
Second. The statute under which the indictment is framed,
or at least so much thereof as relates to the charge of " passing, uttering, publishing, and selling" the note in question,
is repugnant and void.
The United States v. Cantrell,* is in point. Cantrell was indicted under act of Congress of June 27th, 1798,t for "uttering, passing;" &c., a ten dollar note, "purporting to be" a
note "issued by order of the president," &c., of the bank.
The words "purporting to be" were not in the statute, nor
were there any words such as are usually found in statutes
of this character; as, for instance, "in the similitude of;"
"in imitation of," or others pointing against the disposing
and putting off of notes which have not been issued by competent authority. The counsel for Cantrell made the objection
which we take here, that the statute was fatally defective in
not containing these or similar words, and the whole court,
through Marshall, C. J., adjudged the objection to the statute to be well taken, and for that reason ordered that the
judgment be arrested.
Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The judges of the circuit have certified to this court five
questions arising on.the indictment. The first question is,
whether the second count of the indictment is bad as being
in itself repugnant, and the four other questions relate to a
similar repugnancy in the statute under which the indictment is framed. As the count to which the first question
refers pursues the language of the statute, all the questions
resolve themselves into the single one of whether the act, so
far as it relates to altering and publishing forged or coun* 4 Cranch, 167.

t

1 Stat. at Large, p. 73.

UNITED STATES V. HOWELL.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

terfeit notes of the United States, is itself void for repugnancy.
The objection is, that if the note which the party is
charged with passing was, in the language of the statute,
"issued under the authority of this act, or heretofore issued
under acts to authorize the issue of treasury notes or bonds,"
it must necessarily be a valid or genuine note, and if it was
not issued under the authority of some of these acts, the
passing of the note is not made an offence by the law.
There is some degree of plausibility in this hypercriticism
at first blush, which, if it were sound, would make the act
void for want of any meaning, a result which one of the first
canons of construction teaches us to avoid if possible, and
which is at war with the common sense, which assures us
that the purpose of the act was to punish the making of
counterfeits of the notes and bonds described in the statute.
Nor is the criticism philologically just. The offence is described as the passing of false, forged, or counterfeited notes
or bonds issued under the authority of the statute. We are
to give due weight to all the words employed in describing
the instrument, and cannot reject the words false, forged,
and counterfeited, if it is possible to adopt any reasonable
construction which will permit them to stand. This is done
by mentally supplying the ellipsis which is in general use in
conversation or in writing in similar cases. We speak, for
instance, of "false diamonds." According to the criticism
we are considering this phrase has no meaning, because if
the stones spoken of are diamonds they cannot be false, and
if they are false they cannot be diamonds. But any one
understands the meaning to be false stones which purport
to be diamonds, or false similitude of diamonds. So we
speak of a bank note. Now if the paper spoken of is a forgery it is not a bank note, which means an obligation of
some bank to pay money. But here also the mind supplies
the ellipsis which good usage allows, and understands that
what is meant is a forged paper in the similitude of a bank
note, or which on its face appears to be such a note. And
in a similar manner we speak of a forged will. If the argu-

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HOWELL.
Opinion of the court.

ment of defendant's counsel is sound there can be no such
thing as a forged will, receipt, note, or bond, because if
forged they are void and therefore not notes, wills, bonds,
&c. In fact the phrase "void will" or "void note," is, according to this argument, a solecismi because the instrument
cannot be at once the will or note of the party, and be void.
The use of the words false, forged, and counterfeit, in the
statute, imply, therefore, when applied to any of the obligations of government mentioned, that it purports to be such
an instrument, but is not genuine or valid. And so are the
authorities. See 2 Russell on Crimes, 801; East's Pleas of
the Crown, 950.
It is conceded, that if the statute had, in describing the
offences, called the instrument uttered a note, purportingto
be issued under the authority of the statute, the difficulty
would have been removed. In the case of -ex v. Birch and
Martin, the indictment charged them "with publishing as
true, a false, forged, and counterfeited paper writing, purporting to be the last will of Sir Andrew Chadwick." It was
objected that the indictment was bad, because "it should
have been said that they forged a certain will," which was
the language of the statute, and not a paper writing purporting to be a will. "But," says Mr. East, who, in his Pleas
of the. Crown,* makes a full report of the case, "a variety
of precedents were found, so that the judges held it to be
good." But it is apparent, from the exception taken, and
from the language of East and of Russell, ihat the usual
mode of charging the offence was to say that the prisoner
had forged the will or bther paper, and that either form is
good.
The case of United States v. Gzntrell is relied on as holding
an opposite doctrine to that we have here presented. That
case was submitted without argument, and the report says
that the opinion of the court was that the judgment should
be arrested for the reasons assigned in the record. These
reasons are that the indictment was repugnant, because it
* Page 950.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. WEIDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

charged the prisoners with having published as true "a certain false, forged, and counterfeited paper, purportingto be a
bank bill of the United States for ten dollars, signed by
Thomas Willing, president, and G. Simpson, cashier." And
because the statute relating to the charge set forth in the
indictment is inconsistent, repugnant, and void. In this
statement, the words signed and purporting are italicized,
and the court may have held the indictment bad because
the former word was used, thus sustaining the objection
lnade in Rex v. Birch and Marlin. Or it may have held that
the language of the indictment amounted to an averment,
that the bill charged to be forged was signed in fact by the
president and cashier of the bank, in which case it could not
have been a forgery. Or it may possibly have thought that
under the peculiar language of that statute, which differs
materially from the one under consideration, they were
bound to hold it void for repugnancy. However that may
be, we do not consider the case,*as it is reported, an authority for holding the statute void which we are called on to
construe.
To the first and third questions, and the first branch of the
second, we answer, No.
To the fourth and fifth, and the second branch of the
second, we answer, YES.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. WEIDE.

1. On a suit on a policy of insurance against loss of a stock of groceries in
process of retail sale, by fire, it is competent, in the absence of trustworthy books and of specific evidence by persons other than the plaintiffs themselves, to show by witnesses in the town where the fire
occurred, engaged in the same business -with the plaintiffs, and whose
annual sales were as large, that grocery merchants in that city for the
six years prior to the fire had not carried, or had on hand at any one
time, more than one-fifth of their annual aggregate sales, and that this
was the case on the day the fire occurred. In other words, to show by
the general course of trade in that branch of business in the town that

