Dows

V. CITY OF CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the other defences set up against the complainants' right to
recover.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with instructions to DISMISS the complainants' bill as against the city of
New Albany.

Dows v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
A suit in equity will not lie to restrain the collection of a tax on the sole
ground that the tax is illegal. There must exist in addition special
circumstances, bringing the case under some recognized head of equity
jurisdiction, such as that the enforcement of the tax would lead to a
multiplicity of suits, or produce irreparable injury, or where the property
is real estate, throw a cloud upon the title of the complainant.

APPEALS from decrees of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois in two suits; one
original, the other a cross suit. The bill in the original suit
was filed by the complainant to restrain the collection of a
tax levied by the city of Chicago upon shares of the capital
stock of the Union National Bank of Chicago, owned by him.
The bank was organized and doing business in the city of
Chicago, under the general banking act of Congress, and
the complainant was a citizen and resident of the State of
New York.
The principal grounds alleged for the relief prayed were,
that there was, in the tax of the shares of the bank, a want
of uniformity and equality with the tax of other personal
property in Illinois, as required by the constitution of that
State; and that the shares of the bank followed the person
of the owner, and were incapable of having any other situs
than that of his domicile, and were not, therefore, property
within the jurisdiction of the State.
Other objections, relating principally to the manner in
which the tax lists were prepared, the want of notice of the
assessment to the complainant, and the absence of any deductions for debts, were also urged, tending more to show

Dec. 1870.]

Dows v. CITY

OF CHICAGO.

Opinion of the court.

irregularities in the proceedings than invalidity in the tax.
No special circumstances respecting the tax, or its enforcement, were alleged in support of the equitable jurisdiction
of the court.
The bill in the cross suit was filed by the Union Nqational
Bank of Chicago, and, besides alleging the illegality of the
tax assessed, on various grounds, averred that if the shares
were permitted to be sold, irreparable damage would not
only be done to each of the shareholders, but also to the
bank, which would be thereby subjected to great loss of
standing and other injury, for the redress of which the law
afforded no remedy; and that such also would be the result
if the bank paid the taxes, and was subjected to suits by each
of the shareholders by reason of doing so; and that in
either event a multiplicity of suits would be rendered necessary to adjust the rights of the parties. A demurrer was
interposed to the bills, original and cross. ,The Circuit
Court sustained the demurrers to both, and the complainants
in the two cases electing to abide by their bills, the court
entered decrees dismissing the bills. From these decrees
appeals were taken.
Messrs. X.

. Fuller and . R. Roberts,for the appellants.

M. -. Tuley, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion *ofthe court.
According to the view we take of this case, it is unnecessary to consider the force of any of the objections urged by
the appellants to the decrees rendered. Assuming the tax
to be illegal and void, we do not think any ground is presented by the bill justifying the interposition of a court of
equity to enjoin its collection. The illegality of the taxand
the threatened sale of the shares for its payment constitute
of themselves alone no ground for such interposition. There
must be some special circumstances attending a threatened
injury of this kind, distinguishing it from a common trespass, and bringing the case under some recognized head of

Dows v.

CITY OF CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

equity jurisdiction before the preventive remedy of injunction can be invokd. It is upon taxation that the several
States chiefly rely to obtain the means to carry on their respective governments, and it is of the utmost importance to
all of them that the modes adopted to enforce the taxes
levied should be interfered with as little as possible. Any
delay in the proceedings of the officers, upon whom the duty
is devolved of collecting the taxes, may derange the operations of government, and thereby cause serious detriment to
the public.
lNo court of equity will, therefore, allow its injunction to
issue to restrain their action, except where it may be necessary to protect the rights of the citizen whose property is
taxed, and he has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of the law. It must appear that the enforcement of
the tax would lead to a multiplicity of suits, or produce irreparable injury, or where the property is real estate, throw a
cloud upon the title of the complainant, before the aid of a
court of equity can be invoked. In the cases where equity
has interfered, in the absence of these circumstances, it will
be found, upon examination, that the question of jurisdiction
was not raised, or was waived. Such was the case of The
Bank of Utica v. The City of Utica,* where the tax was illegal,
and the chancellor stated that the complainant had a complete remedy at law, but as the parties submitted themselves
to the jurisdiction of the court, he passed upon the case and
enjoined the defendants from collecting the tax. So in the
case of The Utica Manufacturing Company v. The Supervisors
of Oneida County,t a demurrer to a bill filed to restrain an
illegal tax having been overruled, the chancellor affirmed
the ruling, stating, however, that as no question was raised
by counsel respecting the jurisdiction of the court, he had
not considered whether it was a proper case for equitable
cognizance.
NSumerous cases are found in the reports where jurisdiction
has been taken under similar circumstances and the collec* 4 Paige, 399.

t1 Barbour's Chancery, 432.

Dec. 1870.]

Dows v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
Opinion of the court.

tion of an illegal tax restrained, but our attention has not
been called to any well-considered case where a court of
equity has interfered by injunction after its jurisdiction was
questioned, except upon some one of the special circumstances mentioned.
The decision of the Court of Appeals of New York in
Heywood v. The City of Buffalo,* is in conformity with the
views here expressed. In that case the court held the
general rule to be that a court of equity will not entertain
an action by the party aggrieved for relief against an erroneous or illegal assessment, but said that this rule was subject to three exceptions, substantially these: where the enforcement of the assessment would lead to a multiplicity of
suits, or where it would produce irreparable injury, or where
the assessment on the face of the proceedings was valid, and
extrinsic evidence would be required to show its invalidity.
Whenever a case was made by the pleadings falling within
either of these exceptions, the court said that equity would
interfere to arrest the excessive litigation, or prevent the
irreparable injury, or remove the cloud upon the'title, but
would not interfere where none of these circumstances
existed. In Susquehanna Bank v. The Superi~sors of Broome
Countyt the same doctrine was substantially repeated, the
court declaring that a bill to restrain the collection of a tax
would not lie unless the case was brought within some ac-knowledged head of eqluity jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court of Illinois is equally clear upon this
question. In the case of Cook County v. The Chicago, Burlinglon, and Quincy Railroad Company,$ the subject was considered, and the court said that it had been unable to find
any decision, in its previous adjudications, asserting a right
to bring a bill to restrain the collection of a tax illegally assessed, without regard to special circumstances. Itconcludes
an examination of its former decisions by stating, that while
it was considered settled that a court of equity would never
entertain a bill to restrain the collection of a tax, except in
* 14 New York, 534.

t 25 Id. 812.

$: 85 Illinois, 465.

Dows v.

OITY OF CHICAGO.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

cases where the tax was unauthorized by law, or where it
was assessed upon property not subject to taxation, it had
never held that jurisdiction would be taken in these excepted
cases without special circumstances, showing that the collection of the tax would be likely to produce irreparable injury,
or cause a multiplicity of suits.
Upon principle this must be the case. The equitable
powers of the court can only be invoked by the presentation
of a case of equitable cognizance. There can be no such
case, at least in the Federal courts, where there is a plain
and adequate remedy at law. And except where the special
circumstances which we have mentioned exist, the party of
whom an illegal tax is collected has ordinarily ample remedy,
either by action against the officer making the collection or
the body to whom the tax is paid. Here such remedy existed. If the tax was illegal, the plaintiff protesting against
its enforcement might have had his action, after it was paid,
against the officer or the city to recover back the money,
or he might have prosecuted' either for his damages. No
irreparable injury would have followed to him from its collection.. iNor would he have been compelled to resort to
a multiplicity of suits to determine his rights. His entire
claim might have been embraced in a single action.
We see no ground for the interposition of a court of
equity which would not equally justify such interference in
any case of threatened invasion of real or personal property.
The cross-bill filed by the bank presents different features.
That institution insists that if it paid the tax levied uipon the
shares of all its numerous stockholders out of the dividends
upon their shares in its hands, which it is required to do by
the law of the State, or if the shares were sold, it would be
subjected to a multiplicity of suits by the shareholders, and
were it an original bill the jurisdiction of the court might be
sustained on that ground. But as a cross-bill it must follow
the fate of the original bill.
DECREES AFFIRMED IN BOTH SUITS.

