Dec. 187O.]

BANK OF LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT.

891

Syllabus.

rather as conferring an alternative authority than as words
of synonymous signification. Be that as it may, still it is
evident that the word certificates was used by the testatrix
as referring directly to the instruments in the hands of her
brother, which were given in the adjustment of her claim for
the balance due to l4er former husband to make his pay as
director-general equal to what it would have been if he had
been paid in specie.
Strong confirmation of that view is derived from the
cdurse pursued in the settlement of her estate and the long
acquiescence of the complainants in the pretensions of the
respondents and those under whom they claim. Evidence,
however, of the most satisfactory character was introduced
by the respondents showing that the laud warrant never was
in the h'nds of her brother prior to the date of the will, or
at any other time, but it is not deemed necessary to enter
into those details, as we are all of the opinion that the land
warrant, if it passed to the husband by the will, passed under
the devise which gave him during his life all the land which
the testatrix possessed, that it did not pass to him by the
other devise, and that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of complaint is correct.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

BANK OF LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT, ASSIGNEE.
1. Courts cannot assume, in their instructions to juries, that material facts
upon which the parties rely are established, unless they are admitted,
or the evidence respecting them is not controverted.
2. An agreement between persons insolvent and a bank, whereby the insolvents, for the purpose of securing their existing indebtedness to the bank,
as well as to obtain future advances, promise its president to deliver to the
bank, whenever it may desire, the entire stock of goods which they may
have at the time on hand in a store kept 'by them, the goods being in
the meantime retained in their possession, is void as against their other
creditors..
3. Such an agreement does not create any lien upon the property, or entitle
the bank to any preference over other creditors in the event of the
debtors being afterwards proceeded against under the Bankrupt Act

392

BANK OF LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Any subsequent sale, made in pursuance of the agreement, does not
take effect by relation at its date.
4. A mortgage of personal property, consisting of goods in a retail store,
executed in Kansas to secure the payment of certain promissory notes,
is void as against creditors of the mortgagors by statute, if the mortgage is not deposited in the ofice of the register of deeds of the county
where the property is situated, or the mortgagors reside, and is void
independent of the statute if the mortgagors remained in possession
of the goods by the terms of the mortgage, and continued to sell the
goods mortgaged with the assent of the mortgagees.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas.

This was an action brought by the assignee iu bankruptcy
of Keller and Gladding to recover of the Second National
Bank of Leavenworth the value of'certain property alleged
to have been transferred to it by them in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
On the trial evidence was introduced, on the part of the
plaintiff, tending to show that the bankrupts had made a
conveyance of their property to the defendants when they
were insolvent, and that the defendants had reasonable
grounds for believing that the bankrupts were in this condition at the time; that the transfer was not made in the
ordinary course of their business; and that, on the first day
of August, 1866, they executed a chattel-mortgage on portions of their property to the cashier of the bank to secure
the payment of two notes, each for four thousaid dollars,
belonging to that institution. This chattel-mortgage provided that in case of default in the payment of the notes or
interest, it should be lawful for the cashier of the bank to
take possession of the property and sell the same. The
mortgage was never deposited in the office of any register
of deeds of any county in Kansas. The statute of Yansas in
force at the time declared a mortgage of goods and chattels,
not accompanied by an immediate delivery of the property
and followed by an actual and continued change of possession, absolutely void as against creditors and subsequent
purchasers and mortgagees in good faith, unless the mortgage or a copy thereof was forthwith deposited in the office
of the register of deeds in the county where the property

Dec. 1870.] BANK or

LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT.

893

Opinion of the court.

was situated, or if the mortgagor was a resident of the State,
then in the county of which he was a resident.*
Thereupon evidence was given on the part of the defendants, tending to show that the bankrupts, in conversations
preliminary to the execution of the chattel-mortgage, for
the purpose of securing their existing indebtedness to the
bank, as well as to obtain future advances, promised its
president to deliver to the bank, whenever it should desire,
the entire stock of goods which they might have at the time
on hand; that in February, 1867, in pursuance of this agreement, they delivered a portion of their stock, amounting in
value to $2542, and in July following they turned over the
balance to the bank.
Evidence was also given, tending to show that the bankrupts continued to sell the goods included in the mortgage,
and all other goods at their store, with the consent of the
defendants, until the transfer in July, 1867, and that this was
contemplated by the parties when the mortgage was made.
The defendants thereupon prayed the court to instruct
the jury, that if they "believe from the evidence that the
conveyance by Keller and Gladding, il July, 1867, was made

in pursuance of the original agreement between them and
the bank, they are to regard the sale or transfer as valid,
and not [as made] in contemplation of evading the provisions of the bankrupt law."

The court refused to give

the instruction, and the defendants excepted. The correctness of this refusal was the question presented for consideration in this court. The plaintiff obtained judgment, and
the defendants brought the case here by writ of error.
Messrs. Sherry and Helm, for the plaintiffs in error; 2Uessrs.
Stillings and Wheat, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The question presented for our consideration arises upon
the refusal of the Circuit Court to give the instruction
* Compiled Laws of Kansas of 1862, p. 723.

894

BANK OF LEAVENWORTH V. HUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

prayed; and it is one easily answered. It would have been
error to have given the instruction, for it assumes that there
was an original valid agreement between the parties that
the plaintiffs should deliver to the bank the entire stock of
goods when desired.
In the first place, the record does not disclose that any
such agreement was established; it only discloses that the
evidence introduced tended to show that, in conversations
prelifuiinary to the execution of the mortgage, the bankrupts
made a promise to the president of the bank to that effect.
Courts cannot assume, in their instructions to juries, that

material facts upon which the parties rely are established,
unless they are admitted, or the evidence respecting them is
not controverted. The courts would otherwise encroach
upon the appropriate and exclusive province of juries.
In the second place, the supposed agreement, if established, was void as against other creditofs of the bankrupts.
It did not create any lien upon the property, or entitle the
bank to any preference over other creditors in the event of
the debtors being afterwards proceeded against under the
Bankrupt Act. The subsequent sale, even if made in pursuance of the agreement, did not take effect by relation at
its date. Transfers of personal property, situated as in this
case, only take effect as against creditors from the delivery
of the propei'ty to the purchaser.
The stipulation in the chattel-mortgage, providing that in
case of defhult in the payment of the notes or interest, it
should be lawful for the cashier of the bank to take possession of the property and sell the same, does not aid the defendauts for two reasons, both equally conclusive. 1st; The
mortgage was never deposited in the office of the register

of deeds of the county where the property was situated or
the mortgagors resided, and was therefore void as against
creditors under the statute of Kansas. 2d; The mortgagors
remained in possession of the goods notwithstanding the

mortgage, and by its terms; and the testimony tended to
show that they continued to sell the goods, with the assent
of the defendants, until the transfer in July, 1867. The

Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V. K1ENTUCKY.
Statement of the case.

court could not assume the instrument to be valid in the
face of this testimony, for if the facts were found by the
jury which the testimony tended to establish, the mortgage
was fraudulent and void as against creditors.*
In any view of the case the instruction prayed was prop-

erly refused.

JUDGMENT AF.FIRqD.

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.
1. On a question of the exact ancient course of a river in a wild region of
our country, maps made by early explorers being but hearsay evidence,
so far as they relate to facts within the memory of witnesses-e. gr.
since A. D. 1800-are not to control the regularly given testimony of
such persons.
2. It seems that the old maps (those ex. 9r: prior to A. D. 1800), indicative
of the physics and hydraulics of the Mississippi, are not greatly to be
relied on.
3. Wolf Island, in the Mississippi River, about twenty miles below the
month of the Ohio, is part of the State of Kentucky, and not part of the
State of Missouri. This fact settled by the te-stimony of witnesses as
to which Stite exercised jurisdiction; as to where the middle of the
min channel of the Mississippi River had been when the boundary
between the States was fixed; by the. character of the soil and trees of
the island, as compared with the soil and trees of Missouri and Kentucky respectively; and by the natural changes produced in the course
of the current by the physics and hydraulics of the river since the time
mentioned as generally and specifically shown.

THE State of Missouri brought here, in February, 1859,
her original bill against the State of Kentucky, the purpose
of the bill being to ascertain and establish, by a decree of
this court, the boundary between the two States at a point
on the Mississippi River known as Wolf Island, which is
about twenty miles below the mouth of the Ohio. The
State of Missouri insisted that the island was a part of her
territory, while the State of Kentucky asserted the contrary.
The bill alleged that both States were bounded at that point
by the main channel of the river, and that the island, at the
* Griswold v. Sheldon, 4 Comstock, 581; 'Wood v. Lowry, 17 Wendell,
492.

