INSURANCE COMPANY V. WEIDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

charged the prisoners with having published as true "a certain false, forged, and counterfeited paper, purportingto be a
bank bill of the United States for ten dollars, signed by
Thomas Willing, president, and G. Simpson, cashier." And
because the statute relating to the charge set forth in the
indictment is inconsistent, repugnant, and void. In this
statement, the words signed and purporting are italicized,
and the court may have held the indictment bad because
the former word was used, thus sustaining the objection
lnade in Rex v. Birch and Marlin. Or it may have held that
the language of the indictment amounted to an averment,
that the bill charged to be forged was signed in fact by the
president and cashier of the bank, in which case it could not
have been a forgery. Or it may possibly have thought that
under the peculiar language of that statute, which differs
materially from the one under consideration, they were
bound to hold it void for repugnancy. However that may
be, we do not consider the case,*as it is reported, an authority for holding the statute void which we are called on to
construe.
To the first and third questions, and the first branch of the
second, we answer, No.
To the fourth and fifth, and the second branch of the
second, we answer, YES.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. WEIDE.

1. On a suit on a policy of insurance against loss of a stock of groceries in
process of retail sale, by fire, it is competent, in the absence of trustworthy books and of specific evidence by persons other than the plaintiffs themselves, to show by witnesses in the town where the fire
occurred, engaged in the same business -with the plaintiffs, and whose
annual sales were as large, that grocery merchants in that city for the
six years prior to the fire had not carried, or had on hand at any one
time, more than one-fifth of their annual aggregate sales, and that this
was the case on the day the fire occurred. In other words, to show by
the general course of trade in that branch of business in the town that

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY

V. WEIDE.

439

Statement of the case.
the plaintiffs' loss could not have exceeded $24,000, if their sales during
the year amounted to only $120,000.
2. But the witness can testify only to his personal experience on the subject.
He cannot be asked what "the course of trade" was in regard to this
particular business.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota;
the case was thus:
In October, 1866, the Home Insurance Company insured,
for the term of one year, against fire, a stock of groceries
and other merchandise owned by C. & J. Weide, and which
were contained in a storehouse occupied by them in the
city of St. Paul. In February, 1867, the storehouse and its
contents were burnt, and this suit was brought to recover
for the loss of the stock of goods. At the trial the main
question in issue was the extent of the loss. As most of the
books were destroyed, and the defendants had introduced
evidence tending to show that those which were not burned
were not to be depended on, and afforded no data from
which the value of the goods on hand at the date of the fire
could be ascertained, or the extent of loss determined, the
case rested chiefly on the testimony of the plaintiffs. They
swore that their sales during the year preceding the fire
were about $129,000, and that the goods on hand at the
time of the fire were worth, at their cost value, $65,000.
The defendants insisted, on the basis of the sales, that the
loss was greatly overstated, and, as one means of proving it,
offered to show by witnesses in St. Paul, engaged in the
same business with the plaintiffs, and whose annual sales
were as large as theirs, that grocery merchants in that city
for the previous six years had not carried, or had on hand
at any one time, more than one-fifth of their annual aggregate sales, and that this was the case on the day when
the fire occurred. In other words, they wished to show by
the general course of trade in that branch of business in
St. Paul, that the plaintiffs' loss could not have exceeded
$24,000, if their sales during the year amounted to only
$120,000.
The court refused to allow the evidence to go to the jury,

INSURANCE COMPANY V. WEIDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinioi of the court.

and the correctness of this ruling was the only point in the
case which it was necessary here to consider. In the course
of the trial, however, the defendant asked a witness this
question:
"Supposing that the plaintiffs' sales were $120,000 for the

year preceding the fire, as grocery merchants, what average.
amount did they carry or have on hand during such year, ac-'
cording to the general course of business ?"
And on objection made to it, some discussion took place
below on the correctness of that question.
Mr. E. A. Storrs,for the plaintiff in error; Mr. W R. Peckham, with a brief of Mr. L. Allis, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Although we agree with Lord Ellenborough, "that the
rules of evidence must expand according to the exigencies
of society,"* yet it is not necessary to introduce any innovation upon these rules in order to hold that this evidence
should have been admitted. It is true there are no reported
cases on the subject, but on principle its admissibility can
be sustained.
It is well settled that if the evidence offered conduces in
any reasonable degree to establish the probability or improbability of the fact in controversy, it should go to the
jury. It would be a narrow rule, and not conducive to the
ends of justice, to exclude it on the ground that it did not
afford full proof of the non-existence of the disputed fact.
Besides, presumptive evidence proceeds on the theory that
the jury can infer the existence of a fact from another fact
that is proved, and most usually acbompanies it.t Many of
the affairs of human life are determined in courts of justice
in this way, and experience has proved that juries, under
the direction of a wise judge, do not often err in the reasoning which leads them to a proper conclusion on such evi* Pritt r. Fairclough, 3 Campbell, 306.

f Hart v. Newland, 3 Hawks, 122.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. WEIDE.
Opinion of the court.

dence. And if they should happen to reach a wrong conclusion, the court has in its own hands the mode and measure

of redress. In the nature of things, the officers of the insurance company were unable, by any direct proof; to contradict the testimony of the plaintiffs as to the value of the
goods destroyed. If the loss were an honest one it was
their duty to pay it, but if they had good reason to believe
it to be exaggerated, it was equally their duty to refuse to
pay it. As they had no direct evidence to produce bearing
on the subject, they offered to prove a fact which, uncontradicted and unexplained, would lead the jury to the conclusion that the plaintiffs had overvalued the property destroyed
by fire. It was neither opinion nor hearsay which they tendered to the court, nor was it a usage of trade they wanted
to prove, but a matter of fact concerning the business in
which the plaintiffs had been employed, which would render
it extremely improbable that they had sustained the loss
they claimed to have suffered. The plaintiffs testified when
the fire occurred the stock in their store was worth over
sixty thousand dollars, and yet their sales during the year
were only double that amount. The defendants said this
could not be so, because the merchants of St. Paul, engaged
in a like business, and to the same extent, did not at that
time, nor at any other time during the preceding six years,
have on hand on the average more than one-fifth of their
annual aggregate sales.
If this state of case could be proved by the united testimony of this class of merchants, it would- establish a fact
connected with this kind of business, to wit, the uniform
relation between the stock on hand and the annual sales, from
which the existence of another fact could be reasonably inferred, which is, that the business of the plaintiffs rested on
the same basis and was governed by the same rule of uniformity. Indeed, so strong would be this inference, that in the
absence of any attempt to explain or contradict the evidence,
the jury would be justified in adopting the conclusion which
it tended to prove. A presumption is an inference as to
the existence of a fact not actually known, arising from its

MEADER V. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

usual connection with another which is known, and on this
principle the jury should have been allowed to consider this
evidence.
As this case will have to go back for a new trial, and as
the poiiit was raised in the court below, it may be proper to
observe that no witness can be asked what the course of
trade is in reference to this particular business. This would
be either opinion or hearsay. He can only be allowed to
tell his personal experience on the subject about which he
is called to testify. It is only through the aggregated testimony of all the witnesses that the fact can be proved, which
so connects itself with the plaintiffs' business as to require
from him an answer.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO.

MEADER ET AL. v. NORTON.
1. Nothing more is contemplated by proceedings under the act of Congress
of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in California, than the separation of lands owned by individuals from the
public domain. A decree confirming a claim to land rendered in such
proceedings, even when followed by a patent of the United States, is
not conclusive upon the equitable rights of third persons. They can
assert such rights in a suit in equity against the patentee and parties
claiming under him with notice.
2. In a suit at law a patent is conclusive evidence of title against the
United States and all others claiming under the United States by a
junior title. Until the patent issues the fee is in the government, but
when it issues the legal title passes to the patentee. Persons therefore
claiming the land against the patent cannot have relief in a suit at law,
but courts of equity have full jurisdiction to relieve against fraud or
mistake, and that power extends to cases where one man has procured
the patent which belonged to another at the time the patent was issued.
3. In 1839 three sisters obtained from the governor of the Department of
California a grant of land, which was approved by the Departmental
Assembly, and official delivery of possession was given to them. Some
years afterwards the husband of one of the sisters, named Bolcoff, sup.
pressed or destroyed this grant and fabricated a pretended grant to
himself of the land, and also certain other papers intended to prove the

