648

UNITED STATES V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented from the tiecree, upon
the ground that the act of Congress in question did not confirm any claim previously adjudged void by the Federal
courts in pursuance of a prior act of Congress conferring
jurisdiction to hear and determine the controversy.

UNITED STATES V.

WRIGHT.

Under the 5th section of the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large,
702), which declares that "whenever by reason of the presence of a military
or naval force near any post-office, unusual business accrues thereat, the Postmaster-General is hereby required to make a special order allowing proportionately reasonalWe compensation to the postmaster, and for clerical services,"

the Postmaster-General is the sole judge to determine not only whether
the exigencies in the case provided for by the act have arisen, but also,
in case that he decides that they have, to determine the manner and

extent of the allowance to be mdde.
jury to revise his decision.

It is not competent for a court or

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee.
This was an action by the United States against a principal and his sureties on a postmaster's bond. At the trial,
the defendants claimed, by way of set-off, under the 5th section of the act of March 8, 1863,* centain credits which were
proved to have been presented by the postmaster to the department and disallowed. The section mentioned provides:

"That whenever, by reason of the presence of a military or
naval force near any post-office, unusual business accrues thereat,
the Postmaster-General is hereby required to make a special
order allowing proportionately reasonable compensation to the
postmaster, and for clerical services, during the period of such
extraordinary business."
Testimony was admitted as to the presence of United
States military forces near the office of the'postmaster during
* 12 Stat. at Large, 702.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the court.

the term to which his claim related, and the court charged
the jury that "if they were satisfied that, owing to the presence of such forces near said office, during said time, an increased amount of business -had been occasioned, it would be
proper for them to inquire as to what clerical assistance, if
any, wa§ rendered necessary thereby, and to allow said postmaster as a credit the fair compensation for such necessary
clerical assistance."
The question was, the correctness of this charge. It depended, of course, upon the construction to be given to the
5th section above quoted of the act of March 8, 1863.
It is necessary to state that by the 9th section of the act
of July 5, 1836,* which prescribes the general-duties of the
Postmaster-General, that officer is, among other things, required
the allowances to
.
.
"To control, according to law,
postmasters, the expenses of post-offices, and other expenses incident to the service of the department; to regulate and direct
the payment of the said allowances and expenses for which appropriations have been made," &c.
31r. Bristow, Solicitor-General,and Mr. C. .E. Hill, Assistant
Attorney-General,for the United States. No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The instruction given by the learned judge who tried the
case was clearly erroneous, for it referred to the jury a matter which, under the law, rested wholly in the discretion of
the Postmaster-Genefal. The act of March 3, 1868, which
embraces the section upon whose construction the disposition of the case depended, effected great changes in the administration of the post-office department, but it did not
take from the Postmaster-General the right to control and
regulate the allowances to postmasters and the expenses of
their offices, which was conferred by the 9th section of the
act of July 5, 1836. Indeed, it would seem that the general
* 6 Stat. at Large, 81.

MANN V. ROCK ISLAND BANK.

[Sup. at.

Syllabus.

power granted by that section was sufficient to meet the exigencies provided for by the fifth section of the act of March
3, 1863, but be this as it may, the latter section did nothing
more than to require the Postmaster-General, in case the
business of a particular post-office Was considerably increasedj on account of the location of the national forces in
its vicinity, to compensate the postmaster for the extra labor
performed and the additional expenses incurred.
The section did not go further and prescribe rules to govern the action of the Postmaster-General, nor did'it seek to
interfere with the judicial discretion of that officer. Congress constituted him the sole judge to determine not only
whether the 'exigencies in the case had arisen, but if they
had, the manner and extent of the allowance, and it is not
competent for court or jury to revise his decision, nor is it
re-examinable anywhere else, as there is no provision in the
law to that effect. It may be safely laid down as a general
rule, says Story, Judge, "that where a particular authority
is confided to a public officer to be exercised by him in his
discretion, upon an examination of facts, of which he is
made the appropriate judge, his decision upon these facts is,
in the absence of any controlling provisions, absolutely conclusive as to the existence of those facts."*
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE
DE NOVO AWARDED.

MANN V. ROCK ISLAND BANK.
In this case the court expresses its dissatisfaction with appeals being made
whose only effect is to throw upon it the burden of making minute investigations and analyses of evidence in controversies where the case
turned in every point upon simple questions of fact, and where there is
not a doubtful question of law involved in the entire record. And, declaring its conviction that the time of this court, due to other parties
* Allen v. Blunt, S Story, 745.

