LEVY V. STEWART.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

LEvy v. STEWART.
Though by the articles 3505 and 3506 of the civil code of Louisiana it is
provided that bills and notes are prescribed in five years from their
maturity, and that this prescription runs against minors, interdicted
persons, and persons residing out of the State,
Held, that the term of the late rebellion interrupted, on tbe principles announced in Hanger v. Abbott (6 Wallace, 534), and in the later case of
The Protector (9 lb. 687), the running of the prescription in favor of a
creditor who during the war resided in one of the loyal States.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
Levy, of Louisiana, gave, in August, 1860, to Stewart, of
New York, three promissory notes, at six months each.
They were dated on different days in the month just named
and payable at New'Orleans, on the corresponding days of
February, 1861. Very soon after the maturity of the notes
the rebellion broke out. On the 19th April, 1861, proclamation of blockade was made of the Southern coast and war
soon became flagrant. However, the city of New Orleans
was taken possession of by the government forces 6th May,
1862, and the Circuit Court of the United States reorganized
there 24th June, 1863. The notes had been duly presented
before the war, at maturity, and payment refused. Stewart
now, July 27th, 1868, sued on them in the court below.
The defendant pleaded what is known in Louisiana as the
prescription of fiv years, under sections 3505 and 3506 of the
civil code of the State; a plea in good degree resembling
that known in most States as a plea of the statute of limitations. This prescription, however, under the code runs
against minors, interdicted persons, and persons residing out

of the State; herein being unlike the statutes of limitations

in most of the States, or that of James I, from which most
of these were copied, where the rights of such persons are
specially saved. A plea alleging new facts being considered
by the Louisiana practice as denied, without replication or
rejoinder, the plea here was to be regarded as open to every
objection of law and fact, the same as if specially pleaded.

Dec. 1870.]

LEVY v).

STEWART.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

It was in proof that the defendant resided in Bayou Sara,
in the parish of West Feliciana, or at Clinton, in the parish
of East Feliciana, at the dates at which the notes sued on
were given and matured, and that he continued to reside
there during the war.
That he had an agent in N ew Orleans during the war,
and made one or two visits to lew Orleans towards the
close of the war.
That the plaintiffs resided in the city of New York during
the whole of the above-mentioned time.
That the plaintiffs brought suit on the same cause of action on the 4th day of March, 1868.
That the defendant made a compromise and settlement
of the suit with the attorney, who had brought it as the attorney at law of the plaintiffs; that in consequence of the
said compromise and settlement the attorney discontinued
the suit on the 8th of May, 1868.
That the attorney had no authority from the plaintiffs to
enter into the compromise, or make the settlement, or discontinue the suit; and that the plaintiffs repudiated his acts
in the case so soon as informed of them, and afterwards
brought the present suit.
On the foregoing facts the court overruled the plea of
prescription and gave judgment for the plaintiff.
The defendant excepted to the decision of the court, on
the ground:
First, that the bringing of the first suit, May 4th, 1868,
did not interrupt prescription; and,
Second, that by the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, the highest court in the State, the civil war did
not interrupt prescription, and that the courts of the United
States are bound to follow the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana upon the law of prescription of the State
of Louisiana.
31r. P. Phillips,for the plaintff in error:
The first suit, which was commenced the 8th May, 1868,
and which was discontinued, can have no effect upon the

LEvY v. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the phaintiff in error.

plea, for the code expressly provides, article 3485, that when
a plaintiff, "after making his demand, abandons or discontinues it, the interruption shall be considered as having never
happened."
The question then is, what effect was produced by the
war on the law of prescription, when the suit is brought in
Louisiana on a contract payable in Louisiana? Before considering which question of law a point of fat-a part of the
case, in truth, though not referred to in the record-must be
settled. That question of fact is,-when, for the purpose of
a suit by Stewart against Levy, did the war end ? It ended,
we suppose, in April or May, 1865.
By proclamation of the 29th of April, 1865,* all restrictions upon commercial intercourse with so much of the State
.of Louisiana as lies east of the Mississippi River, and were
.within the lines of military occupatiou,were removed. Bayou
Sara and Clinton, the resilence of the defendant, were at that date
within the lines, and they lie to the east of the river. This is matter
of indisputable fact, personally kno~vn to all residinig thereabouts, and is part of the public history of the war.
By another proclamation of the 10th of May, 1865,t it is
declared that armed resistance to the authority of the government in the insurrectionary States may be regarded as
virtually at an end.
We assume, then, that for the purpose of a suit the war
terminated in May, 1865. With that assumption we proceed.
As the District.Court of the United States was reorganized
in New Orleans in 1863, there was no impediment in the
way of the plaintiff, and he may have brought his suit at
any time from that period to February, 1866, before the
prescription of five years would have expired. From the
close of the war to this latter period there were still nine
months in which the parties could have brought their suit.
This they did not avail themselves of, but took their first
action three years after the termination of the war.
* 13 Stat. at Large,

76.

t Ib. p. 767.

Dec. 1870.]

LEVY V. STEWART.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Now, was this in time? We submit that it was not.
There are two well-established propositions which would
seem to show this:
1. That a fixed and received construction of a State statute.
by the highest court of the State, is as effectual as if written
into the statute by direct legislative declaration.
2. That this court has repeatedly held that the construe tion of the State statute of limitations is conclusive; and
that they will not only adopt the construction given by the
State court, but will follow any change of construction that
may be made by the State court.
On these propositions the language of the court is this:*
"The same reason which influences this court to adopt the
construction given to the local law, in the first instance, is not
less strong in favor of following it in the second, if the State
tribunals should change the construction. A refusal in the one
case as well as in the other, has the effect to establish in the
State two rules of property."
"If the construction of the highest judicial tribunal of a State
forms a part of its statute law, as much as an enactment by
the State legislature, how can this court make a distinction between them? There could be no hesitation in so modifying
our decisions as to conform to any legislative alteration in a
statute, and why should not the same rule apply when the judicial branch of the State government, in the exercise of its ncknowledged functions, should, by construction, give a different
effect to a statute from what had at first been given to it ?"
Now the five year prescription is construed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in Rabel v. Pourciau.t It is there
declared that the maxim "contra non valentem agere, non
curriiprescript ,"' does not 'apply to this peculiar prescription which runs against "minors, interdicted persons, and
absentees."
The court further hold that war was an impediment which
would excuse the party from acting while the war lasted.
But if after this impediment was removed, there still re* Green v. Neal, 6 Peters, 298.

t" 20 Louisiana Annual, 131.

LnvY v. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

mained the " tempaus utile" in which the creditor could have
sued before the expiration of the five years, be was bound
to act within that time. This ':tempus utile" is fixed by the
decision at six months.
And this is the doctrine of many eminent French jurists.
Troplong on the subject quotes a decree of the Court of
Cassation, 1st August, 1829, to the effect that war does not
suspend prescription when the creditor had the -means of
exacting his debt in another place than that declared in a
state of blockade. He then says as a logical consequence,
if the impediment proceeding from war or pestilence occurs
in an intermediate time, and not a time bordering on the
expiration of the prescription, it ought not to be taken into
account, since when the creditor is free to act he has all
is necessary to compel his debtor to pay, for
the time tl
where would be from that time the "force majeure," which
alone authorizes the suspension of prescription ? By way
of illustration, he says :*
"I reside in a city which is blockaded for the period of one
year, and twenty years remain to avoid the thirty years prescription of my right: would it not be ridiculous to atte mpt a
justification of negligence in not acting during this period and
demanding that this period of siege should not be counted as
part of the thirty years? What 'force majeure' has paralyzed
me, since for twenty years I could at any moment have avoided
this impediment?"
We must pay strict attention, says he, to the fact that a
hindrance founded on war is not written in the law, that it
is never legalized but by an act of "force maje? re," shown
to the satisfaction of the judge, and that he should never
admit it but when sustained by an irreparable and invincible
obstacle. He adds:
"When the creditor has had sufficient time (tempus utile) to redress himself, 'force majeure' is a vain allegation, and the time
thus lost, so easy to repair, just as the time of an apoplexy, or
* Droit Civile Expliqu6 de la Prescription, vol. 2, p. 258.

Dec. 1870.]

LEVY V.

STEWART.

Opinion of the court.

-fever, or grief. The time of prescription is in fine regulated by
law, with sufficient latitude and favor, so that itis not necessary
that each (every) day should be ' absolument utiles."'
But, *independently of this, the decision already quoted of
.Rabel v. Pourciau, cited, is sustained by fifteen cases, reported
in 20th and 21st Louisiana Annual;* and if any construction can be considered as part of the local statute, this must
be. As thus construed, it should be enforced by this court.
The appellee had nine months after the war terminated and
before the prescription expired. Nor is there anything hard
inthis view. Prescription it must be remembered is governed by the law of the forum; in other words the law of
the State in which the suit is brought. When we therefore ascertain what that law is, it governs all judicial proceedings, whether the same are instituted in the State courts
or the courts of the United States administering justice in
that State. A citizen of another State suing a citizen of
Louisiana on a Louisiana contract, can have no cause to
complain, if the law applicable to the limitation.of his right
to sue is the same as is applied to suits between her own
citizens.
Messrs. S. -ff. Johnson and C.

. Peck, contra.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Statutes of limitations exist in all the States, and with few
exceptions they have been copied from the one brought
here by our ancestors in colonial times.t They are regarded
as statutes of repose arising from the lapse of time and the
antiquity of transactions, and they also proceed upon the
presumption that claims are extinguished whenever they
are not litigated in the proper forum within the prescribed
period.
* See specially Durbin v. Speller, 20 Louisiana Annual, 219; Payne &
'
Harrison v. Douglass, lb. 280; Durand v. Hienn, Ib. 845; Marcy v. Steele,
lb. 413; Norwood v. Mills, Ib. 422; Lemon v. West, Ib. 427; Watts v.
Bradley, lb. 523.
-Story, Conflict of Laws, 576.

LEVY v. STEWARLT.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

Exceptions are to be found in all such statutes; but cases
where the courts of justice were closed in consequence of
insurrection or rebellion are not within the express terms
of any such exception, contained either in the original act
or any other of later date.
Express exceptions of the kind, it is conceded, do not
exist, and if none can be implied, then all debts due from
one belligerent to another, as well as executory contracts
involving commercial intercourse with the enemy, are practically discharged, as, if the war is of much duration, prior
claims will be barred by the local statute of limitations.
Enemy creditors cannot prosecute their claims subsequent
to the commencement of hostilities, as the rule is universal
and peremptory that they are totally incapable of sustaining
any contract in the tribunals of the other belligerent.
Absolute suspension of the right to sue and prohibition
to exercise it exist during the war by the law of nations, but
the restoration of peace removes the disability and opens
the doors of the courts.*
Peace, it is said, restores the right and the remedy, but it
cannot restore the remedy if the war is of much duration,
unless it be held that the operation of the statute of limitations is also suspended duriug the period the creditor is
prohibited by the existence of the war and the law of nations
from enforcing his claim.
On the twenty-seventh of July, 1868, the plaintiffs in the
court below commenced an action of assumpsit against the
present plaintiff on three promissory notes, signed atNew
York and made payable at New Orleans. One, dated August
6, 1800, due six months after date, for sixteen hundred and
eighteen 65 dollars; another, dated August 28, 1860, due
six months after date, for fourteen hundred and fifteen i
dollars; and the other, dated August 20, 1860, due six
months after date, for four hundred and forty-two ] dollars, all of which notes, at maturity, were duly presented for
* The William Bagaley, 5 Wallace, 405; Jecker et al. v. Montgomery,
18 Howard, 111; The Hoop, 1 Robinson, 200.

Dec. 1870.]

LEVY v.

STEWART.

Opinion of the court.

payment, which being refused, they were duly protested for
non-payment. Process was duly issued, and being served,
the defendant appeared and pleaded as a defence the prescription of five years as established by the civil code of the
State.
New facts alleged by the defendant in his answer are considered as denied by the plaintiff in the State courts without
any replication, and the same rules of practice have been
adopted in the Circuit Courts. Matters in avoidance, therefore, alleged in the answer, are open to every objection of
law and fact the same as if specially pleaded.*
Viewed in that light, as the pleadings must be, the issue
between the parties was the same as it would be in jurisdictions g,,verned by the common law, where the plaintiff replied denying the allegations of the answer, or pleaded
specially that the operation of the prescription was suspended
during the late civil war, and that the plaintiff did commence his suit within five years next after the cause of
action accrued.t
Testimony was taken and the parties were heard, but the
court, neither party requesting a jfiry, overruled the plea
of prescription, and entered judgment for the plaintiffs.
Subsequent to the judgment a statembnt of facts was filed,
signed by the judge and the parties, which consists of the
pleadings, the notes and documents offered in evidence, the
entries in the minutes of the proceedings, the judgment of
the court, together with a statement of the evidence introduced. By the statement it appears that the defendant, at
the dates at which the notes were given, and when they
matured, resided at Bayou Sara, and that he continued to

reside there during the war of the rebellion; that he had
an agent in New Orleans during that period, and that he
made one or t'wo visits there towards the close of the war;
that the plaintiffs resided throughout that period in the city
* D:quin v. Coiron, 3 Louisiana, 392; Muse v. Yarborough, 11 Id. 533;
Swilley v. Low, 13 Louisiana Annual, 412; Bank v. Allard, 8 Martin, N. S.
141.
t Riley v. Wilcox, 12 Robinson's Louisiana, 648; Code, article 329.

:LEVY v. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of New York; that on the 4th of March, 1868, they brought
a suit for the same cause of action; that the defendant made
a compromise and settlement of the same with the attorney
who instituted the suit, whereby the suit, on the eighth of
May following, was discontinued; that the attorney, in making the settlement and in disdontinuing the suit, acted without authority, and that the plaintiffs repudiated his acts in
the case as soon as they were informed of the same, and afterwards brought the present suit.
Exceptions were taken by the defendant to t6ie rulings
and decision of the court upon three grounds, as follows:
(1.) Because the bringing of the first suit did not interrupt
the prescription established by the laws of the State. (2.)
Because the civil war dia1 not interrupt the prescription
under the rule established by the decisions of the Supreme
Court of the State. (8.) Because the courts of the United
States are bound to follow the decisions of the Supreme
Court of the State in respect to the law of prescription, as
applied to such causes of action.
Different views, however, were entertained by the Circuit
Court, and judgment was rendered for the plaintii. Whereupon the defendant sued out a writ of error and removed
the cause into this court.
Much discussion of the first response made by the plaintiff to the defence of prescription as set up by the defendant
in his answer is unnecessary, as the court is of the opinion
that the decision of the case must turn upon the second response of the plaintiffs to that defence, which is, that in
computing the five years since the cause of action accrued
the period during which the courts of the State where the
defendant resided were closed in consequence of the late
civil war must be deducted.
Regulations exist in some of the States that where a first
suit is abated and a second suit is brought within a prescribed time the statute of limitation shall cease to run from
the date of the first suit, but the court is not referred to any
such enactment as applicable in this case, and it is believed
that none such exists, as the code of the State provides that

Dec. 1870.]

LEvy v. STEWART.
Opinion of the court.

if the plaintiff, after having made his demand, abandons or
discontinues it, the interruption shall be considered as having never happened.*
Grant all that, still the question remains to be considered
whether the alleged prescription was not interrupted by the
fact that the courts of the State where the defendant resided
were closed by the late civil war for such a period of time"
that the bar was not complete when the present suit was
commenced.
Proclamation of blockade was made by the President on
the nineteenth of April, 1861, and on the thirteenth of July
in the same year Congress passed a law authorizing the
President to interdict all trade and intercourse between the
inhabitants of the States in insurrection and the rest of the
United States.t
On the twentieth of August, 1866, the President by his
proclamation of that date proclaimed that the insurrection
was at an end and that peace, order, and tranquillity were
fully restored in all the States.$.
Permanent military possession of N~ew Orleans, it is conceded, was taken by our forces at a much earlier period, and
it is also true that the Circuit Court was organized there
at the date specified in the statement of facts, but that portion of the State where the defendant resided still remained
within the lines of the insurrectionists, and of course the
courts of the State were closed so far as respects the rights
of the plaintiffs in this case.ยง
Throughout the entire period between the dates of those
proclamations the courts of the State were closed to the
plaintiffs and they were totally incapable of instituting any
suit for the enforcement of their claim.I
Exceptions, not mentioned in the statute of limitations,
t 12 Stat. at Large, 257-258.
: United States r. Anderson, 9 Wallace, 70; 14 Stat. at Large, App. 7.
The Venice, 2 Wallace, 258.
fl The Hoop, 1 Robinson, 200; Wheaton's Law of Nations, by Lawrence,
544, 877; Esposito v. Bowden, 4 Ellis & Blackburne, 963; Griswold v.
Waddington, 16 Johnson, 438.
* Code, article 8485.

LEVY V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

have sometimes been admitted, and this court decided in
the case of Hangcr v. Abbott,* that the time during which
the courts of the States in rebellion were closed to the citizens of the rest of the Union is to be excluded in suits, since
brought, from the computation of the time filed by the
statutes of limitation within which suits may be brought,
though no such exception is expressly admitted in the limitation act. Neither laches nor fraud can be imputed to the
creditor in such a case, as the inability to sue becomes absolute by the declaration of war wholly irrespective of his consent or opposition. When the contract was made he was
competent to sue, but the effect of war is to suspend his
right during its continuance,.not only without any fault on
the part of the creditor, but under circumstances which
make it his duty to abstain from any such attempt. His
remedy, as was said in that case, is suspended by the two
governments and by the law of nations not applicable at the
date of the contract, and which comes into operation in consequence of an event over which he has no control.t
Recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the State are
referred to by the defendant in which it is denied that any
exception whatever is allowed in any case, in the law of
prescription, as to bills and notes.1
None of those decisions are founded upon any express enactment, and the reasons assigned for the conclusion are not
satisfactory. They admit that the maxim "contra non valentern agere non curritprescriptio" is a maxim of universal justice, but deny that it applies to causes of action founded
upon bills and notes, chiefly because "they are prescriptible
against minors and interdicted persons as well as others,"
which the chief justice of that court, in the case first cited,
held to be an unsatisfactory reason for the conclusion, and
in that view the court here entirely concurs.
Suppose that the rule of that court cannot be adopted,
* 6 Wallace, 532.

t The Protector, 9 Id. 689.

t Rlabel v. Pourciau, 20 Louisiana Annual, 131; Lemon v. West, 20 Id.
427; Smith v. Stewart et al., 21 Id. 75.

Dec. 1870.]

LEVY V.

STEWART.

Opinion of the court.

still it is insisted by the defendant that the suspension of
the prescription ceased when the rebellion came to an end;
that the suit was instituted too late, as it might have been
commenced within five years next after the cause of action
accrued, and certain continental authorities are referred to
where that rule is apparently maintained.*
Authorities of the kind, though entitled to great respect,
are not obligatory, and the court is of the opinion that the
rule adopted in the case of Hanger v. Abbott,t is more consonant with justice and more in accordance with the analogies of our law than the one suggested by those commentators.
Even the Supreme Court of the State which refused to
adopt that rule admits that the law ought to be so, but proceeds to show from certain prior decisions of this court that
it is not so, not one of which is an authority to support the
proposition for which they were invoked.
Evidently the case before the court is controlled by the
decision in the case of Hanger v. Abbott and The Protector,.
and the court as now constituted adheres to those decisions.
Creditors' debts due from belligerents are suspended during war, but the debts are not annulled. They are precluded during war from suing to recover their dues, but
with the return of peace we return the right and the
remedy.ยง
'Where a debt has not been confiscated during war the
rule is now universally acknowledged that the right to sue
revives when peace is restored, and the rule is that the restoration of peace returns to the creditor both the remedy
and the right, which necessarily implies that the law of
limitation was suspended during the same period.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* 2 Troplong, De la Pxescription, 258, &c.

9 Id. 687.
t 6 Wallace, 534.
ยง Chitty on C. and 31. 423; Wheaton's Law of Nations, by Lawrence,
5 1; Yattel, book iii, c. 6, 77.

[Sup. Ct.

GARNETT V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

NOTE.-The four cases which now immediately follow, to
wit, Garvett v. United States, Me Veigh v. Same, HMiller v. Same,
and Tyler v. Defrees, arose under two certain acts of Congress passed in 1861 and 1862, during the late rebellion, and
popularly known as the Confiscation Acts. Alohg with one
or two others they were argued at the last term; but after
being taken into advisement, were at the close of it ordered
to be re-argued at this. They were now fully argued very
much together. In the first of them nothing relating to
confiscation was reached; the case going off on a point of
jurisdiction. Ii the judgment in none of them did the
Chief Justice or Mr. Justice Nelson participate; both being
absent from the court from the causes mentioned in the
memoranda of the Term.
GARNETT V. UNITED STATES.
'Where a case has been tried in the District Court of the District of Columbia, the judgment or decree rendered therein must be reviewed by the
Supreme Court of the District, before the case can be brought before
this court for examination.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia;
this:
being
case
the
By an act passed in 1801,* there was organized for the District the "Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, vested
with all the powers of the Circuit Courts of the United
States." It had " cognizdnce of all crimes and offences
committed within said District, and of all cases in law and
equity," &c.
By act of 1802,t it was provided that the chief judge of the
District of Columbia should hold a District Court in and for
the said District, "which court shall have and exercise within
said District the same powers and jurisdiction which are by
law vested in the District Courts of the United States."
On the 3d March, 1863, + by act of that'date the courts of
the District were reorganized.
The first section of that organic act established a court,
ERROR

* 2 Stat. at Large, 105.

t 2 1b. 166.

1

2 Ib. 762.

