Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V. K1ENTUCKY.
Statement of the case.

court could not assume the instrument to be valid in the
face of this testimony, for if the facts were found by the
jury which the testimony tended to establish, the mortgage
was fraudulent and void as against creditors.*
In any view of the case the instruction prayed was prop-

erly refused.

JUDGMENT AF.FIRqD.

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.
1. On a question of the exact ancient course of a river in a wild region of
our country, maps made by early explorers being but hearsay evidence,
so far as they relate to facts within the memory of witnesses-e. gr.
since A. D. 1800-are not to control the regularly given testimony of
such persons.
2. It seems that the old maps (those ex. 9r: prior to A. D. 1800), indicative
of the physics and hydraulics of the Mississippi, are not greatly to be
relied on.
3. Wolf Island, in the Mississippi River, about twenty miles below the
month of the Ohio, is part of the State of Kentucky, and not part of the
State of Missouri. This fact settled by the te-stimony of witnesses as
to which Stite exercised jurisdiction; as to where the middle of the
min channel of the Mississippi River had been when the boundary
between the States was fixed; by the. character of the soil and trees of
the island, as compared with the soil and trees of Missouri and Kentucky respectively; and by the natural changes produced in the course
of the current by the physics and hydraulics of the river since the time
mentioned as generally and specifically shown.

THE State of Missouri brought here, in February, 1859,
her original bill against the State of Kentucky, the purpose
of the bill being to ascertain and establish, by a decree of
this court, the boundary between the two States at a point
on the Mississippi River known as Wolf Island, which is
about twenty miles below the mouth of the Ohio. The
State of Missouri insisted that the island was a part of her
territory, while the State of Kentucky asserted the contrary.
The bill alleged that both States were bounded at that point
by the main channel of the river, and that the island, at the
* Griswold v. Sheldon, 4 Comstock, 581; 'Wood v. Lowry, 17 Wendell,
492.

MISSOURI V.

KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

time the boundaries were fixed, was and is on the Missouri
side of said channel.
The answer stated that Kentucky, formed out of territory
originally embraced within the State of Virginia, was admitted into the Union on the 1st day of June, 1792, and
that she had always claimed her boundary on the Mississippi
to the middle of the river, and Wolf Island to be within her
jurisdiction and limits as derived from Virginia; a part of
Hickman County, one of the counties of Kentucky,- opposite to which it lay. And it denied that the island belonged
to Missouri, or that the main channel was on the eastern
side of it when the boundaries of the States were fixed.
An immense amount of testimony, derived from maps as
ancient as the earliest well-known navigation of the river;
from the journals of ancient and later travellers; from official
and quasi official surveys, &c., was introduced by the counsel
of both sides, but more especially by those of Missouri, to
show where the main channel had been and was-whether
on the cast or on the west of the island-in 1763, where the
boundaiy between France and England, then owners respectively of the regions now known as Missouri and Kentucky, and more particularly where it was in 1783, when by
our treaty of peace with Great Britain we succeeded to the
rights of that government; and also where it was in 1820,
wheni Missouri, part of the territory acquired from France,
was adinitted into the Union; the middle of the main channel of the river, confessedly, having been fixed in all these
cases as the boundary. The depositions of many witnesses
on both sides, particularly on the defendant's, were also read,
testifying as to where within the memory of man the channel
in dispute had been.
The witnesses of the complainant-to give the case of
Missouri more particularly-stated that from the present
time back to 1830 the main channel of the river was on the
east side of the island, and that from 1830 as far back as
1794, both channels were navigable. They admitted that,
from 1832 to the present time, the eastern channel had been
chiefly used for navigation.

Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the case.

The early maps and charts of the river, introduced by the
State of Missouri, laid down the island as nearly in the
middle of the river, but the larger portion of it west of the
middle line. Amongst these were the map of Lieutenant
Ross, of the British army, made in 1765, in an expedition
from Fort Chartres to New Orleans; the map of Captain
Philip Pittman, published in London in 1770; the map of
General Collot, in 1796; Hutchins's map, in 1778; and Luke
Munsell's map of Kentucky, made in 1818.
-Extracts from the books of early travellers stated their passage down the river on the east side; amongthese books were
the travels of Ashe in 1806, and of Sir Francis Baily in 1796.
The Pittsburg Navigator, in several editions from 1806 to
1818, was relied on, stating the channel to be on both sides,
but. best on the east side.
Reliance was had, too, on certain official or quasi official
maps of the Federal government. An official map, made
in 1821, by the United States Engineers' Department, under
an act of Congress of April 14, 1820, and a United States
Survey and Report, made in 1838, by the Land Department,
with official computation, showed the area of the cross section of the east channel to be 81,020.33 square feet, and of
the west channel to be 18,625.71, and the mean velocity of
the east channel to be 8.72 feet per second, and of the west
channel to be 2.79 feet, and giving.the gallons discharged by
the east channel per second as 115,395, and of the west channel 51,965, being less than one-half on the west side; and
also the greatest depth of water on the east side as being 23
feet against 22-. General Barnard's apparently official map
of 1821 was relied on as laying down the channel on the east
side; as also the United States Coast Survey map, of 1864,
presenting it in the same way. The island, it seemed, had
been surveyed by the United States, in March, 1821, as part
of Missouri; and in April, 1823, steps were taken to locate on
it a New Madrid certificate for 600 arpents; and in August,
1884, a plot of the island was sent to the Register of the Land
Office, at Jackson, Missouri.
The State of Missouri relied, also, a good deal on the fact,

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

which seemed to have been sufficiently proven, that in 1820
the sheriff of New Madrid County (the county in Missouri
opposite to the island), had executed process of the Missouri
courts on the island against the only settler ol it, one Hunter,
and who entered upon it prior to 1803; and that one of the
Missouri Circuit Court judges had once-though when did
not appear-resided on the island.
Evidence introduced by Missouri tended to show that the
first clear act of jurisdiction exercised by Kentucky was not
earlier than 1826; and that it was only in 1837, when her
legislature passed an act for the sale of lands on the island,
and her people purchased under her title so offered, that Kentucky asserted open and exclusive ownership of the island.
The State of Kentucky on its side gave proof, which was
much of it in direct opposition to that presented by Missouri. It proved that land on the island was entered in the
Virginia land office during the Revolutionary war; the State
now nown as Kentucky being then part of Virginia; and
that in 1828, one of the courts of Kentucky exercised jurisdiction over the island in a matter of apprenticeship. Although it presented fewer evidences from ancient maps and
books of travels than did the State of Missouri, it produced
more living persons whose recollections came in support
of its case. More than a score of witnesses, many of them
ancient, including boatmen, navigators, and several persons
who had lived from childhood close by the island, some opposite to it, and specially interested by their business to note
on which side vessels sailed, all testified that while now the
main channel of the river was to be regarded as on the east
side of the island, it was undoubtedly and within their mem'ory and knowledge not so formerly, but was on the west side;
many of these witnesses going into details, and showing a
positive and experimental knowledge on the subject upon
which they spoke; details of a sort that could not easily be
invented, and which if not invented but true, tended to give
the case to Kentucky.
The geology of the island and its sylva were relied on by

Dec. 1870.]

e ISSOURI *V. KENTUCKY.
Statement of the case.

Kentucky, and shown to be more coincident with its own
soil and woods than with those of Missouri; the argument
hence being that what was now an island, was originally
part of the mainland of Kentucky.
The counsel for Kentucky directed evidence yet more
specially, to the physical changes which the shores of the
two States had undergone since the years 1763, 1783, and
1820. It was -not denied by them, that now and since 1820,
the river on the east side of the island had become broad,
deep, and navigable; the testimony introduced by them
being directed to show that this was the result of physical
and hydraulic causes, working changes since the boundary
had been fixed; some of the changes being the results of
actual efforts of science to improve the channel, but others,
immeasurably more operative, natural ones only; a continuatio-n of those changes caused in the basin of the Mississippi, by the mighty rises to which the river is subject;
estimated at such magnitude that men of science* have
considered that the river poured past even at this high point
of it, at the rise in March, 1858, 1,130,000 cubic feet per
second; at the rise in April of that year 1,260,000, and at
the rise in the following June (continuing for several days),
the immense volume of 1,475,000 of cubic fe9t per second;
inundating cities, changing courses of the stream, and in
former ages leaving far to the west of the present rivercourse those crescent-shaped lakes, noted by Sir Charles
Lyell and other geologists, plainly bends in the ancient
channel.t
* See the report of Captain Humphreys and Lieutenant Abbott, of the
Topographical Engineers of the United States, upon the physics and hydraulics of the Mississippi River, made by order of Congress.
t- See Lyell's Second Visit to the United States, vol. ii, pp. 248, 250. By
way of illustrating the immense geological changes which the basin of the
Mississippi has undergone in the course of time, a passage was quoted from
Lyell's Principles of Geology (10th ed., vdl. i, p. 462). The author is describing a cliff near the Gulf, which he examined in 1846, and which he
says had been well described by Bartram, the botanist, sixty-nine years before; "a cliff continually undermined by the stream." He says:
"At the base of it, about forty feet above the level of the gulf, is buried a forest,
with the stools and roots in their natural position, and composed of such trees as

MISSOURI V. ICENTUCKY.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

These were causes, sufficient as the counsel of the State of
Kentucky argued, to account for the change in the course
of the channel ; and the counsel produced a map known as
H. G. Black's (see it infra, p. 409), showing how the eastern
channel had been produced by recent mighty rushings of
the river against the "iron banks," above the island ; and
which while they were able to iesist the current, threw it
with a rebound to the Missouri-side, but which now yielding
to the tremendous stream, and being gradually washed
away,'let the whole force of the river come in a more direct
and easy course.
The statement, in more detail, of this great body of evidence, tending only to the establishment of facts, would
serve no purpose of judicial science; and may be the more
properly omitted by the reporter, siuce, in most of the details
not already given, it is minutely presented by the learned
justice who gives, after stating it, the opinion of the court
as a result.
It was all systematically and clearly introduced for the
party whom it was supposed to aid, by Messrs. -l. Blair and
F. A. Dick, in.
behalf of the State of Alissouri, complainant; and
by Hessrs. G. Davis and H'. Stanbery, on the other side; the
arguments which, in view of the special nature of the case,
were not limited as to time, and were made by those same
gentlemen, having been elaborate and able.*
now live in the swamps of the Delta and alluvial plain. Above this buried forest
the bluff rises to a height of about seventy-five feet, and affords a section of beds of
river sand, including trunks of trees and pieces of drift-wood, and above the sand a
brown clay. From the top of the cliff the ground slopes to a height of about two
hundred feet. above the sea. From this section we learn that there have been great
movements and oscillations of level since the Mississippi began to form an alluvial
plain and to drift, down timber into it, and to bury under sand and sediment ancient
forests. When the trees were buried the ground was probably sinking, after which
it must have been raised again, so as to allow the stream to cut through its old alluvium. The depth of this ancient fluviatile is seen to be no less than two hundred
feet, without any signs of the bottom being reached."
*

Mr. Stanbery also raised and argued fully the point of jurisdiction;

the judgment in the already repozted case of Virginia v.

West Virginia

(supra, 39), by which discussion on that subject would have been concluded, not having been as yet announced.

Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary, for the purposes of this suit, to consider
whether, on general principles, the middle of the channel of
a navigable river which divides coterminous States, is not
the true boundary between them, in the absence of express
agreement to the contrary, because the treaty between
France, Spain, and England, in February, 1763, stipulated
that the middle of the River Mississippi should be the boundary between the British and the French territories on the
continent of North America. And this line, established by
the only sovereign powers at the time interested in the subject, has remained ever since as they settled it. It was recognized by the treaty of peace with Great Britain of 1783,
and by different treaties since then, the last of which resulted
in the acquisition of the territory of Louisiana (embracing
the country west of the Mississippi) by the United States in
1803. The boundaries of Missouri, when she was admitted
into the Union as a State in 1820, were fixed on this basis,
as were those of Arkansas in 1836.* And Kentucky succeeded, in 1792,1 to the ancient right and possession of Virginia, which extended, by virtue of these treaties, to the
middle of the bed of the Mississippi River. It follows,
therefore, that if Wolf Island, in 1763, or in 1820, or at any
intermediate period between these dates, was east of this
line, the jurisdiction of Kentucky.rightfully attached to it.
If the river has subsequently turned its course, and now
runs east of the island, the status of the parties to this controversy is not altered by it, for the channel which the river
abandoned remains, as before, the boundary between the
States and the island does not, in consequence of this action
of the water, change its owner.1
That Virginia claimed the ownership of the island as early
as 1782 is very certain, for at that date the arable land on it
was entered in the proper office of Virginia as vacant land
lying within the territorial limits of the State, although it
• 3 Stat. at Large, .543; 5 Id. p. 50.
Jieffer, Du Droit International, p. 143,
International, 62.

:

VOL. x1.

26

1] Id. 189.
66; Caratheodry, Du Droit

MISSOURI V. K3ENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

seems the bntry was never surveyed or carried into a grant.
And that Kentucky is now, and has been for many years
prior to the commencement of this suit, in the actual and
exclusive possession of the island, exercising the rights of
sovereignty over it, is beyond dispute. The island lies opposite to, and forms part of, Hickman County, one of the
counties of the State, and the lands embraced in it were, in
May, 1837, surveyed under State authority, and have since
tbun been sold and conveyed to the purchasers by the same
authority. The people residing on it have paid taxes and
exercised the elective franchise according to the laws of the
State. In 1851, a resident of the island was elected to represent the county in the General Assembly, and served in
that capacity. And as early as 1828, a minor living there
with one Samuel Scott, was bound an apprentice to him by
the proper court having jurisdiction of such subjects. This
possession, fully established by acts like these, has never
been disturbed. If Missouri has claimed the island to be
within her boundaries, she has made no attempt to subject
the people living there to her laws, or to require of them
the performance of any duty belonging to the citizens of a
State. Nor has there been any effort on her part to occupy
the island, or to exercise jurisdiction over it. If there were
proof that the island, by legislation, had been included in
the limits of New Madrid County, then the service of a writ
in 1820, on the solitary settler there, by the sheriff of the
county, would be an exercise of sovereign power on the part
of the State. But in the absence of this proof, there is
nothing to connect the State with the transaction, or from
which ail inference can be drawn that the sheriff was authorized to go on the island with his process. And for the same
reason, it is hard to see how the fact, conceding it to be true,
that a person occupying the position of a circuit judge of
Missouri, once lived on the island (when or how long we are
not informed), tends to show that the State intended to take
possession of it.
These things may prove that, in the opinion of the judge
and sheriff, the island belonged to Missouri, but they do not

Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.

Opinion of the court.

go further and put the State in any better position than she
was, if they had not occurred. And so with the locator of
the New Madrid claim in 1821. He doubtless believed he
had authority to locate his warrant on the island, but surely
the State cannot claim that she acquired any right by this
proceeding. There is, therefore, nothing in this record
which shows that Kentucky has not maintained, for a long
course of ;ears, exclusive possession and jurisdiction over
this territory and the people who inhabit it. It remains to
be seen whether she shall remain in possession and continue
to exercise this jurisdiction, or whether she shall give way
to Missouri. The case is certainly not without its difficulties,
but we think these difficulties can be removed by a fair examination of the testimony, and the right of the contestants
properly determined.
The evidence to be considered consists of the testimony
of living witnesses, the physical changes and indications at
and above the island, and the maps and books produced by
the complainant. In a controversy of this nature, where
State pride is more or less involved, it is hardly to be expected that the witnesses would all agree in their testimony.
And as this conflict does exist, it is necessary to consider
the evidence somewhat in detail, in order to justify the conclusions we have reached concerning it.
There are eight witnesses called for the complainant, who
testify confidently, that the main channel of the Mississippi
River was always east of 'Wolf Island, and one of them
(Swon), an experienced river-man, who navigated the river
from 1821 to 1851, in all stages of water, says there are no
indications that the main channel was ever on the west side.
Only three of them knew the river prior to 1820, and they
were engaged in the business of flat-boating, which is hardly
ever undertaken in a low stage of water. There is nothing
to show that any one of them ever made a personal examination of the channels and surrounding objects at this point,
and there is a remarkable absence of facts to sustain their
opinions. It is also noticeable, in connection with this evidence, that none of the witnesses (Hunter may be an excep-

MISSOURI V.

"ENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion) ever lived in the vicinity of the island, or remained
there any length of time, and that all the knowledge any
of them acquired of the state of the river was obtained by
passing up or down it at differdnt times, either on flatboats
or steamboats. Notwithstanding they swear positively that
the channel was always east of the island, yet Watson says
it changed for about three years, and Ranney testifies that
on one occasion, when the main channel was divided into
three parts, the deepest water for a short time in the fall of
the year was found on the west of the island, and. steamboats passed on that side. But they do not prove a deficieijcy of water at any time in the Missouri channel, or
that any boat, from that or any other cause, was ever hindered in any attempt to run it. It is uidoubtedly true that
the Kentucky channel, when the river was full, for many
years has afforded a safe passage for boats, because at such
a time, if the obstructions were not submerged they could
be avoided, and navigators would take it as it was five miles
the shortest. And passing the river only occasionally, and
without any knowledge of where the volume of water flowed
when the river was low, they would naturally conclude it
was the main channel. It is equally true that now it is the
main highway for the business of the river; but the point
to be determined is, was it so as far back as 1763, or even
1820? If in the investigation of such an inquiry, positive
certainty is not attainable, yet the evidence furnished by the
defendant affords a reasonable solution of it. And, at any
rate, it greatly outweighs the evidence on the other side,
and in such a case the party in possession has the better
right. The proof on behalf of the defendant consists of the
testimony of twenty-seven witnesses. Many of them have
been acquainted with the river from an early period in this
century, and quite a number have spent their lives near the
disputed territory, and, therefore, had better opportunities
for observing the condition of the river at this point than
the witnesses for the complainant, who only passed there
occasionally. Nearly all of them are old men, and there is
no diversity of opinion between them concerning the loca-

Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the court.

tion of the main channel of the Mississippi River at Wolf
Island. All who testify on the subject-there are only a
few who do not-agree that until a comparatively recent
period it ran west of the island, and to fbrtify their opinions
they describe the state of the respective channels at different
times, and tell what was done by themselves or others about
the navigation of the river. They concur in saying that in
early times it was difficult for flatboats, even in the highest
stage of water, to get into the Kentucky chute, owing to
the current running towards the Missouri side, and that if
they succeeded in doing it, the navigation was obstructed
on account of the narrow and crooked condition of the
stream, which was filled with tow-heads, .sand-bars, driftwood, and rack-heaps. One of the witnesses, ill describing
the appearance of this chute in 1804, states that it looked
like lowlands, with cottonwood and cypress on it, and that
there was only a narrow channel close to the island; all the
other space to the Kentucky shore, now open water, was
then covered with large cottonwood timber.
Other witnesses corroborate this testimony, and unite in
saying that in early times, at an ordinary stage of water, it
was impossible to take the Kentucky channel at all, on account of these obstructions, while the Missouri channel was
wide, deep, and unobstructed. And one of them expresses
the opinion that in low water, any one could have got to the
island from the Kentucky shore without wetting his feet,
by crossing the small streams on the drift-wood. But we
are not left to conjecture on this point, for Ramsey, an old
inhabitant of the country, swears that on one occasion he
walked over from the Kentucky side to the island, nearly
all the way on dry land, and the residue on drift-wood, and
noticed while on the island, that there was plenty of water
in the Missouri channel.
Can it be possible that such a stream at this time was the
main channel of the Mississippi River? Although the Kentucky channel, from natural causes, had improved in 1825,
still in the low water of that year it did not have a depth
of over two and a half feet nor a width exceeding one bun-

406

MIssouRI V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

dred and fifty yards, while steamboats passed through the
Missouri channel without any difficulty. The witnes, who
testifies to this state of things, at that time, had his attention
especially called to the subject as he kept a woodyard ol
the Kentucky side opposite the island, and missed the opportunity of supplying boats that ran the Missouri channel.
And there is no one who speaks of a scarcity of water in
the Missouri channel, until after Captain Shreve operated
in this locality with his snag-boats, which had the effect of
opening and deepening the Kentucky channel, so that it has
now become the navigable stream. Judge Underwood says
that in 1820 the west channel was between four and five
hundred yards wider than the east one, and must have discharged nearly double the quantity of water. And one
witness testifies that the east channel was formerly so narrow that two steamers could not pass in it abreast. It
would seem, therefore, that the condition of this channel, as
told by these witnesses, was proof enough that the main
channel was west of the island; but this is not all the proof
on the subject. Russell, who was appointed superintendent
of river improvements in 1842, and knew the island since
1814, and spent five months there in 1819, swears that in
descending the river in 1830 or 1831 he sounded the Kentucky chanel, and, not finding water enough in it by two
or three feet to float his boat, was compelled to go down on
the Missouri side, where there was nine or ten feet of water.
To the same effect is the evidence of Holton, who, in 1828,
being unalile to get up the east channel with a steamer
drawing upwards of six feet of water, went over to the Missouri side and passed through without any trouble. And,
three years later, Peebles saw three or four steamers attempt
to run up the Kentucky channel, and failing to get through,
back out and easily ascend the other. Christopher, who ran
the river from 1824 to 1861, on one occasion could not pass
the bar at the foot of the Kentucky chute with a boat drawing twelve feet of water, and was compelled to change to
the other side, and jot up without any difficulty; and there
are other witnesses who testify to the inability of boats to

:Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI
.
V. "KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the court.

pass east of the island, and to their safe passage west of
it. Indeed, the concurrent testimony of all the persons
engaged in the navigation of the river is, that they could
never safely go east of the island, unless in high water, and
that they uniformly took the west channel in dry seasons;
and the flatboatmen, in early times, even in high water,
were frequently compelled to uncouple their, boats in order
to descend the Kentucky channel, and then were obliged to
pull through by trees, on account of the narrowness of the
channel. In low water they would quite often get aground
and have to whit for a rise of the river to take them out.
It will readily be seen that this class of men would naturally
take risks in order to save five miles of navigation. Moseby:
who has lived in the vicinity for forty-two years, testifies to
the greater volume of water in the Missouri channel, and to
boats usually taking it; and all the witnesses agree that
since they knew the river the chutes around the island have
undergone great changes, and that the east one is now, in
depth, width, and freedom from obstructions, wholly unlike
what it was formerly. In this state of proof, how can it be
successfully contended that Missouri has any just claim to
the island?
But there is additional proof growing out of certain physical facts connected with this locality which we will proceed
to consider. Islands are formed in the Mississippi River by
accretions produced by the deposit at a particular place of
the soil and sand constantly floating in it, and by the river
cutting a new channel through the mainland on one or the
other of its shores. The inquiry naturally suggests itself, of
which class is Wolf Island? If the latter, then the further
inquiry, whether it was detached from Missouri or Kentucky.
The evidence applicable to this subject tends strongly to
show that the island is not the result of accretions, but was
once a part of the mainland of Kentucky. Islands formed
by accretions are, in river phraseology, called made land,
while those produced by the other process necessarily are
of primitive formation. It is easy to distinguish them on
account of the difference in their soil and timber.

MISSOURI V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It has been found, by observation and experience, that
primitive soil produces trees chiefly of the hard-wood varieties, while the timber growing on land of secondary formation-the effect of accretions-is principally cottonwood.
Wolf Island is of large area, containing about fifteen thousand acres of land, and, with the exception of some narrow
accretions on its shores, is primitive land, and has the primitive forest growing on it.
On the high land of the island there are the largest

poplar, chincapin, oak, and black-jack trees growing, and
primitive soil only has the constituent elements to produce
such timber. But this is not all, for trees of like kind and
size are found on the Kentucky side on what is called the
second bottom, near the foot of the Iron Banks, which is
about two feet higher than the bottom on which Columbus
is located. There are no such trees on the Missouri shore.
Those found there are of a different kind and much smaller
growth. Besides this, the high land on the island is on the
same level witb the second bottom on the Kentucky side,
while it is four or five feet higher than the land on the Missouri side opposite the island and above it. In this state of
the case, it would seem clear that this second bottom and
island were once parts of the same table of land, and, at
some remote period, were separated by the formation of the
east channel. In the nature of things, it is impossible to tell
when this occurred, nor is it necessary to decide that question, for, by the memory of living witnesses, we are enabled
to determine that the east channel, or cut-off, as it should
be called, was not the main channel down to 1820.
If the testimony already noticed be not enough to prove
this, there is the additional evidence furnished by the
changes which the river has accomplished in the neighbo.
hood of the island, within the recollection of many intelligent persons. These changes are important, and are shown
on the map of H. G. Black (on the opposite page), which
is proved to be a correct representation both of the present
and original position of the island, the river, and its banks.
The effect of the evidence on this subject is, that the filling

Dec. 1870.]

MISSOURI V.

KENTUCKY.

Map.

The original banks of the river and island
are represented by the continuous line; the
present ones by the dotted line.
A. The shaded parts, represent accretions
or made land.
B. Point once projecting from the Missouri shore, now washed away.
C. Toney's Point, once projecting from
the Kentucky shore, now washed away.

W 0
IS

LA

L F
N

410

MissouRi v. KETUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

up at the mouth of Town Creek, the washing away of the
point above on the Missouri hile, the abrasion of the Iron
Banks, and the partial destruction of Toney's Point, have
operated to straighten the banks above the island on the
Kentucky side, to bring the water closer to them, and, as
a consequence, to cast it into the east chamel. And that,
before these projecting points were removed, and the accretions made at Town Creek, the water was thrown towards
the Missouri side. This was necessarily so, as can readily
be seen by an inspection of the map. In the original condition of the river the current must have been carried from
the Missouri point to the Iron Banks opposite, and rebounded from them across to the Missouri side, so as to
carry the channel west of Wolf Island. And it is equally
clear that the changes which have occurred within this century have straightened the river and turned the channel to
the east of the island. Can there be any need of further
evidence to sustain the long-continued possession of k entucky to the island, and are not the witnesses, who swear
that in their tine the main channel of the Mississippi River
ran west of Wolf Island, abundantly fortified?
But it is said, the maps of the early explorers of the river
and the reports of travellers, prove the channel always to
have been east of the island. The answer to this is, that
evidence of this character is mere hearsay as to facts within
the memory of witnesses, and if this consideration does not
exclude all the books and maps since 1800, it certainly renders them of little value in the determination of the question in dispute. If such evidence differs from that of living
witnesses, based on facts, the latter is to be preferred. Can
there be a doubt that it would be wrong in principle, to
dispossess a party of property on the mere statements-not
sworn to-of travellers and explorers, when living witnesses,
testifying under oath and subject to cross-examination, and
the physical facts of the case, contradict them ?
But, it is claimed the books and maps which antedate human testimony, establish the right of Missouri to this island.
If this be so, there is recent authority for saying they are

Rec. 1870.]

THE MONTELLO.
Syllabus.

unreliable.

In 1861 Captain Humphreys and Lieutenant

Abbott, of the corps of Topographical Engineers, submitted

to the proper bureau of the -War Department, a report based
on actual surveys and investigations, upon the physics and
hydranlics of the Mississippi River, which they were directed
to make by Congress. In speaking on the subject of the
changes in the river,* they say: "These changes have been
constantly going on since the settlement of the country, but
the old maps and records are so defective, that it is impossible to deternine much about those which occurred prior
to 1800." In the face of this report, authorized by the government, and prepared with great learning and industry,
how can we allow the books and maps published prior to
thi century, to have any weight in the decision of this controversy ?-

ritliout pursuing the investigation further, oi full con-

sideration of all the evidence in the case, we are satisfied
the State of Missouri has no just claim to the possession of
Wolf Island.
It is therefore ordered that the bill be
DSMISSED.

TE

MONTELLO.

1. A river is a navigable water of the United States when it forms, by itself
or by its connection with other waters, a continued highway over
which commerce is or may be carried on with other Stat.s or foreign
countries in the customary modes in which such commerce is conducted
by wator.
2. If a river is not of itself a highway for commerce with other States or
foreign countries, or does not form such highway by its c,,nnection
with other w:ters, and is only navigable between different places within
the State, then it is not a navigable water of the United StateF, but
only a navigable water of the State.
S. The acts of Congress providing for the enrolment and license of vessels
only apply to vessels employed upon the navigable waters of the United
States.
Page 104.

