610

DuPvny v. KLEINSMITII

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

DUNPHY v. K'LEINSMITH AND

DUER.

1. A complaint which is in form and substance such a complaint as is made
in "a creditor's bill," is a case of equitable jurisdiction, and one requiring equitable relief as distinguished from legal.
2. In a Territory of the United States where the systems of common law.
and chancery are found as separate systems, chancery can alone give
relief on such a bill.
S. If a case presented by a creditor's bill is tried like a common law case;
that is to say by a jury, and a decreeis entered on the verdict as a mere
conclusion of law upon the facts found, and not as the result of the
chancellor's own judgment, though of his judgment aided by the finding, it is error.
4. A decree on a creditor's bill, which makes the defendant who has cooperated with the debtor responsible for damages which the creditor has
suffered in consequence of the conveyance sought to be avoided, is erroneous. On such a proceeding be is liable but to account. If damages
are sought against him they should be sought by a proceeding at law.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Mon-

tana. •
The case was that of a creditor's bill filed by Kleinsmith,
one appellee, against E. M. Dunphy, the appellant, and one
Benajah Morse, surt'iving partner of Elkanah Morse, on behalf of himself and all other judgment creditors, to obtain
satisfaction of a judgment recovered by Kleinsmith on the
12th of March, 1868, for $16,957. The bill alleged that an
execution issued on the judgment was returned wholly unsatisfied, and that no part of the judgment had been paid.
It then charged that on the 31st of October, 1867, Morse
and his brcther Elkanali (then living) executed to Dunphy a
mortgage to secure the payment of $30,000 in one year from
date, covering property to the amount of $70,000, including
a ranch in the county of Gallatin, containing 640 acres of
laud, with two-thirds of the crops and all the stock thereon,
embracing 225 head of cattle, and all the goods in their
store at Gallatin, together with the lot and storehouse and
all the book accounts and evidences of debt of E. &B. Morse.
The bill stated that at the time of executing this mortgage
the M'Norses were largely indebted to different persons, and

Dec. 1870.]

DUNPHY v. 11LEINSMITH.
Statement of the case.

charged that it was made to hinder, delay, and defraud the
creditors of the firm, and was not accompanied by change
of possession; but that the Morses continued in possession
for several months, selling and disposing of the goods for
their own benefit. It further charged that the Morses did
not owe Dunphy any such amount as $30,000; did not, in
fact, owe him more than $6000 or 7000, the balance being
.fictitious; and that both Dunphy and the Morses had acknowledged as much to different persons. The bill further
charged that, by means of this fraudulent mortgage and
fictitious debt, Dunphy had prevented the plaintiff.and othei
judgment creditors of E. & B. Morse from collecting their
just demands; that Dunphy had claimed title to the property under the mortgage, and had forbidden the sheriff to
levy upon it, and that consequently the sheriff had refused
to do so, and that*Morse and Dunphy were engaged in disposing of the property, and that Dunphy had already got
more than $30,000 therefrom. The-bill prayed that the
mortgage might be declared fraudulent and void; that a
receiver should be appointed to hold the property, and that
if what was left should not be sufficient to satisfy the complainant and other judgment creditors, Dunphy might be
made personally liable for the deficiency. By an amended
bill the complainant alleged that, on the 3d of January, 1868,
Morse executed to Dunphy an assignment of all the property embraced in the mortgage, and authorized him to sell
and dispose of it with due regard to his own interests and
the interests of the dreditors of E. & B. Morse; but that,
notwithstanding the assignment, Morse still continued in
possession and control of the property for several mouths,
and to sell the same and collect the proceeds thereof; and
that the assignment was fraudulent and void.
To this bill Dunphy filed an answer, insisting on the boia
fides of his debt, and setting forth that it consisted of $12,500
for a stock of goods sold to the Morses, and $10,000 for
money lent to them at the date of the mortgage, the balance
being for interest to accrue during the year the mortgage
had to run, namely, one per cent. a month on the former

DUNPHY V. KLEINSMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sum, and five per cent. a month on the latter, which was
allowed by the laws of the Territory. The appellee, Duer,
recovered a judgment against Morse on the same day that
Kleinsmith's was entered, failed to obtain satisfaction, and
filed a petition to intervene as a co-complainant in the suit,
and was admitted to intervene accordingly. The cause was
put at issue and came on for trial in March, 1869.
It appeared that by an act of the Territorial legislature
of Montana, passed in December, 1867, it was declared:
"Sec. 1. That there shall be in this Territory but one form of
civil action for the enforcement or protection of private rights
and the redress or prevention of private wrongs."
And,
"Sxc. 155. That an issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless
a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered as provided in
this act."
By another act, passed in January, 1869, it was provided.:
"IThat in all civil cases, if three-fourths of the jurors agree
upon a verdict, it shall stand and have the same force and effect
as if agreed upon by the whole of the jurors."
The cause was tried in pursuance of these provisions of
the Territorial law. In order to present distinct issues for
trial the court framed a series of questions (twenty-two in
number), and submitted them to the jury: as
"1st. Did E. & B. Morse retain possession and control and
continue to dispose of the property mortgaged after the execution of their mortgage to E. M. Dunphy on the 31st day of October, 1867?
"2d. State whether B. Morse, after the 3d day of January,
1868, continued to remain in possession of the property assigned
to Dunphy, and also to exercise control over it, and to sell and
dispose of it?
:4th. Did E. & B. Morse owe E.M. Dunphy $30,000 at the
time of the execution of their mortgage to him on the 31st day
of October, 1867?

Dec. 1870.]

DUNPEY v. 1_LEINSMITH.
Statement of the case.

"9th. Did the mortgage to Dunphy prevent the collection of
the judgments of Kleinsmith and Duer ?
117th. Was the mortgage to Dunphy executed and accepted
for the purpose of covering up the property of E. & B,Morse,
and delaying or preventing the collection of demands found
against them or either of them ?" &c., &c.
To all these questions nine of the jury returned answers
adverse to Dunphy and favorable to the complainants, and
three dissented.
This verdict was rendered on the 25th of March, and accepted by the court, and on the 3d of April a decree was
made, which, after reciting the principal findings of the jury,
proceeded as follows:
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said
mortgage from E.& B. Morse to E.M. Dunphy for $30,000 be set
aside as fraudulent and void, and of no effect, and that the said
plaintiffs recover of the said E.M . Dunphy the sum of $35,737,
the amount of plaintiffs' judgments, interest, and costs, together
with the costs of this action, taxed at $7149; that the said judgments be credited by the money in the possession of the receiver
"inthe above cause, and that plaintiffs have execution against
the said Dunphy for the residue of said judgment after such
credit has been entered."
This judgment was rendered in the District Court for the
third judicial district of the Territory. It was taken to the
Supreme Court and affirmed. An appeal was then taken
to this court.
The principal question presented by this case was whether
these proceedings, conducted in the manner stated, could be
sustained.
By the organic act constituting the Territory of Montana,
passed by Congress May 26th, 1864, section 6, the legislative
power of the Territory was declared to extend'to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution
of the United States and the provisions of that act. By the
9th section provision was made for establishing various
cou'ts of the Territory, namely, a Supreme Court, District

DUNPHY V. -LEINSMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Courts, Probate Courts, and justices of the peace; and it.
was enacted that the Supreme and District Courts, respectively, should possess chancery as well as common-law jurisdiction. By the 13th section it was declared that the Constitution and all laws of the United States, which are not
locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect
within the Territory as elsewhere in the United States.
These were the only provisions of the organic law which
were referred to in the argument.

a.

Mr. Lyman Trumbull, for the appellant; Messrs.
0. fBroadhead, and A. M1. Woolfolk, contra.

. A. Dick,

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court, as follows:
From the provisions of the organic law, which have been
ieferred to in the argument, it is apparent that the Territorial legislature has no power to pass any law in contravention of the Constitution of the United States, or which
shall deprive the Supreme and District Courts of the Territory of chancery as well as common-law jurisdiction.
This case was clearly a case of chancery jurisdictioh, and
one necessarily requiring equitable, as distinguished 'from
legal, relief. The property, according to the charge of the
complainant, had been put beyond the reach of the ordinary
process of the law. It had been disposed of by the assistance
and through the co-operation of Dunphy in such a manner
that the judgment creditors could not find it to satisfy their
claims, or; if found, it was held by Dunphy under cover of
an assignment, which, primd facie, gave him the legal title.
This is what is charged by the judgment creditors. They
further charge that this was a fraudulent contrivance to hinder and delay them in the recovery of their debts. In a
country or territory where the systems of common law and
chancery both substantially prevail, it is perfectly clear that
chancery only could give adequate relief in such a case.
And, then, the case was instituted and the pleadings were
framed strictly in accordance with this view. The bill is
strictly a bill in chancery praying for equitable relief.

Dec. 1870.]

DUNPHY V.

LEINSMITH.

Opinion of the court.

Now, it is perfectly obvious that, with the exception of
the verdict being rendered by nine jurors, the trial was
altogether conducted as a trial at common law, and that the
decree was rendered on the verdict precisely as a judgment
is rendered on a verdict at common law. This was clearly
an error. The case, being a chancery case, and being instituted as such, should have been tried as a chancery case by
the modes of proceeding known to courts of equity. In
those courts the judge or chancellor is responsible for the
decree. If he refers any questions of fact to a jury, as he
may do by a feigned issue, lie is still to be satisfied in his
own conscience that the finding is correct, and the decree
must be made as the result of his own judgment, aided, it is
true, by the finding of the jury. Here the judgment is pronounced as the mere conclusion of law upon the facts found
by the jury.
Again: In an equitable proceeding of this kind, a decree
in the nature of a judgment for damages cannot be rendered
against the defendant who is alleged to have taken a fi'audulent assignment of the property. The decree against him
must be a decree for an account. He must be called to account for just what property has come into his hands, and
no more; and he will be entitled, under ordinary circumstances, to a rebate for the amount that was justly and honestly his due. The mode of taking suuh an account is well
known in equity proceedings. The defendant is to exhibit
an account either in his answer or in the master's office,
and if it is not satisfactory to the complainant, it may be
surcharged or falsified; and, as the account is finally found
to stand, so will the responsibility of the defendant be. But
if the complainant wishes to make him answerable in damages, either for the waste of the property gr for its disposal
by the original proprietor by aid of the wrongful complicity
of the defendant, he must sue for damages in an action at
law.
No account of the kind, or in the manner indicated, seems
to have been taken at all. The suit was tried like an action
for damages, and the jury were left to say, in brief, whether

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statemefit of the case.

or not the complainants could have made their money on
execution had it not been for the mortgage and assignment
to the defendant. The jury answered that they could, and
the defendant was made personally liable for the whole
amount.

Without attempting to decide whether the Territorial
legislature had or had not the power to legalize a verdict
rendered by three-fourths of a jury, we think the proceedings were erroneous, and the decree must be REVERSED and
the cause remanded for further proceedings
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THE CHEROKEE TOBACCO.
1. The 107th section of the Internal Revenue Act of July 20, 1868, which
enacts that "the internal revenue laws imposing taxes on distilled spirits, fermented liquors,tobacco, snuff, and cigars, shall be construed to extend to such
articles produced anywhere within the exterior boundaries of the United States,
whether the same shall be within a collection district or not," applies to and
is in force in the Indian Territory embraced within the Western District
of Arkansas, and occupied by the Cherokee nation of Indians, notwithstanding the 10th article of the prior treaty of 1866, between the United
States and that nation, by which it was agreed that "every Cherokee Indian and freed person residing in the Cherokee nation shall have the right to
sell any products of his farm, including his or her live stock, or any merchandise
or manufactured products. and to ship and drive the same to market without
restraint, paying any tax thereon which is now or may be levied by the United
States on the quantity sold outside of the Indian territory."
2. An act of Congress may supersede a prior treaty.

ERROR to the District Court for the Western District of
Arkansas; the case involving, first, the question of the intention of Congress, and, second,'assuming the intention to
exist, the question of its power, to tax certain tobacco in
the territory of the Cherokee nation, in the face of a prior

treaty between that nation and the United States, that such
tobacco should be exempt from taxation.
The case was elaborately argued orally or on briefs, by
Messrs. .E. C. Boudinot, A. Pike, R. W. Johnson, and B. F.

