Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR v. DAY.
Statement of the case.

THE

COLLECTOR V.

DAY.

It is not competent for Congress under the Constitution of the United
States to imp6se a tax upon the salary of a judicial officer of a State.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
The Constitution of the United States ordains that

"Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States; but all
duties, imposts, and excises, shall be uniform throughout the
United States."
And an amendment to it, that
"The powers not delegated to the United States are reserved
to the States respectively, or to the people."
With these provisions in force as fundamental law, Congress by certain statutes passed in 1864, '5,'6, and '7,* enacted
that
"There shall'be levied, collected, and paid annually upon the
gains, profits, and income of every person residing in the United
States,

.

.

whether derived from any kind of property,

rents, interest, dividends, or salaries, or from any profession,
trade, employment or vocation, carried on in the United States or
elsewhere, or from any other source whatever, a tax of 5 per
centum on the amount so derived, over $1000."
Under these statutes, one Buffington, collector of the internal revenue of the United States for the district, assessed
the sum of $61.50 upon the salary, in the years 1866 and
1867, of J.M. Day, as judge of the Court of Probate and
* Statutes of the 80th of June, 1864, c. 173, 116, 13 Stat. at Large, 281;
of the 3d of March, 1865, c. 78, 1; lb. 479; of the 13tb of July, 1866, c.
184;, 9; 14 Id.137; and of the 2d of March, 1867, c. 169, 13; Ib.477.
VOL. XI.
8

THE COLLECTOR

v.

DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

Insolvency for the County of Barnstable, State of Massachusetts. The salary was fixed by law, and payable out of the
treasury of the State. Day paid the tax under protest, and
brought the action below to recover it.
The case was submitted to the court below on an agreed
statement of facts, upon which judgment was rendered for
the plaintiff. The defendant brought the case here for review; the question being, of course, whether the United
States can lawfully impose a tax upon the income of an individual derived from a salary paid him by a State as a judicial officer of that State.
Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General,and Mr. John C. Ropes (with
a brief of Mr. Ropes), for the collector, plaintiff in error:
In the exercise of its granted powers, the Federal government is supreme. Under the general power of taxation,
every man and every thing throughout the country (exports
excepted) are subject to taxation in the discretion of Congress, provided that the power be exercised for the purposes
declared in the Constitution, and not for unauthorized purposes, and that the conditions of its exercise, prescribed in
the Constitution, uniformity, &c., be complied with.
1. What was granted to the Federal government was the
power of taxation for certainpurposes (the common debts, the
common defence, the general welfare), for none of which
were the particular States bound any longer to provide.
These burdens were now thrown on the general government, and the resources on which each State had been able
to draw to meet the requisitions of the Congress of the Confederation for money to defray these burdens, were naturally
placed at the direct disposal of the United States. The idea
was, not to exempt certain classes of persons or objects from
their share of the public burdens; to exempt a judge of
probate, for instance, from his share of the tax necessary to
meet the interest on the public debt, or support Lhe army
and navy; but merely to lay these public duties on the general government instead of the States. With the duties went
also the power to discharge them; the general government

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. DAY.
Argument in support of the tax.

took by the Constitution an exclusive right to tax imports,
and shared with the States the rights of taxation retained by
them. N'obody was to be exempted; nobody was to be taxed
any more than he bad been before. It was simply a change
of the sovereign charged with the public duty, and who was
therefore clothed with the power to discharge that duty.
When the United States repays to a particular State money
expended by that State for the public welfare, and originally
raised by State taxation from the incomes of State officers
among others, nobody imagines that the State officers can
claim their share of this tax from the State. Why should
they not therefore pay it in the first instanceto the United
States?
So a section of the statute now under consideration, taxing the issues of State banks so excessively as t6 drive their
notes out of circulation, has been held constitutional.* And
the court were unanimous in the opinion, that Congress can
tax the property of the banks and of all other corporate
bodies of a State, the same as that of individuals.
It will not be pretended, on the other side, that the income
of an individual derived exclusively from State stock would
be exempted from this income tax. Yet the courts have
recognized a strong analogy between the taxation of the
issues of a bank, of the office of an officer, and of stock as such:
is there not a similar analogy between income derived from
the business of the bank, from the dividends of the stock, and
from the salary of the office? If one is taxable, are not
they all ?
Again: who are to be thus exempted from bearing all
direct share in the maintenance of the N'ational government? Is the exemption to be confined'to judges of State
courts? or are all officers of the State and municipal governments to be equally exempt? If not, why not?
Further: suppose the defendant in error had been drafted
into the army under a general conscription law, would his
office have saved him ? If it would, how far is this exemp* Yeazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wallace, 583.

TiE

COLLECTOR V. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

tion to extend? Are justices of the peace and aldermen
exempt? And is it to be supposed that the number of persons exempt in a particular State from military duty depends
on the laws of that State; that the fact of a man's. holding
a commission as a State judge exempts him from serving in
the army of the United States in time of war?
It will doubtless be urged that within the sphere of their
jurisdiction, the States are as independent of the Federal
government, as the government, within its sphere, is independent of the States; and that a government whose officers
are taxed cannot be considered independent.
But this independence of the States is confined to a certain sphere by the terms of the objection. That is to say,
it is an independence consistent with the supreme authority
of another government over its citizens, and its property,
for certain of the most important purposes of government.
Can that State be in any sense independent, all of whose
citizens may, against their will, be drafted into the army;
and all of whose citizens, except its officers (to adopt the
defendant's theory), may be at any time deprived by another
government of a percentage of their income to defray the
expense of a war, to which, perhaps, they are all opposed?
Is it any more an abridgment of the independence and sovereignty of a State to tax the agents of the people, than to
tax the people themselves?
None of these abstract theories are pertinent to the case.
The people, acting through the States, have given to the
general government certain duties to perform, and a general
power of taxation to enable'it to perform those duties.
Whoever and whatever would have been liable for such
taxation had the States been independent, and retained
these charges in their own hands, are made liable for the
same taxation from the new government. The sphere of
the latter was li mited by express provisions; by restricting
the objects for which taxes could be levied; by defining the
piode of levying them so as to insure uniformity throughout
the country; by excluding exports from all liability to taxation; and, in general, by conferring upon the general gov-

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR v. DAY.
Argument in support of the tax.

ernment a few only of the powers possessed by a nation.
But when the general government acts within its prescribed
limits and for its prescribed purposes, its power overrides
everything in the country, and there is no limit to its reach.
It is of no avail to plead that a man is a State officer, or that
his income was paid him by the State; if the government
need him or his money for legitimate purposes, they can take
both in the way pointed out by the Constitution; exactly as
the government of his own State could have done had it
retained the powers which it has expressly granted to the
United States.
Do we then assert for the general government that it can
tax the State governments out of existence? By no means:
no more than it can tax the people out of existence. The
United States taxes must be uniform; they can be levied
only for certain definite objects; they must be conformed to
the general principles and practice of taxation. Whatever
injury they do to the State governments is an ineidental injury. The taxes would have to be levied by the States themselves if they had not granted the power to do so to the
United States. No more money is exacted of the citizen in
one case than in the other. The power of the general
government is only to be exercised for certain purposes, and
then only under certain conditions. These provisions were
thought adequate to guard against encroachment on-the part
of the Federal govern ment in the matter of taxation; and as
long as the Federal government levies its taxes with the
uniformity required by the Constitution, there is and can be
no danger to the State governments, for the reason that the
officer can be taxed no more than the citizen,--the burden
falls on all alike. Whatever burden the people of the United
States are willing to impose on themselves can be borne by
the State officers in common with the rest of the people,
without any injury to the State governments.
The difficulty about this subject has arisen from the mistake of applying the language used by this court, when the
propriety of subjecting the powers and property of the United
States to the varying taxation of the different States, was in

THE COLLECTOR

V. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

question, to a case where the United States proposes to impose its uniform taxes on the persons and property in all the
States, over which and over whom it holds, by virtue of an
express grant, a concurrent power of taxation with the States
themselves.
It has been decided that a State cannot tax the means
used by the general government to execute its granted
powers;* because, in the first place, the Constitution expressly provided that in the exercise of these powers, the
general government should be supreme; because, in the next
place, exemption from State taxation was implied in the very
grant itself; and also, because it would be practically impossible to carry out the powers granted to the general government if their execution was to be hindered by the taxation which any State might see fit to impose on the means
used to carry them .out. So far as this question was concerned, it was as if the several States had granted these
powers to a foreign government; had guaranteed that in the
exercise of these powers the laws of that government should
be supreme; and had then undertaken to tax the banks,
stock, and the other means used to carry out these powers.
And had the foreign government, in its turn, granted similar powers to the several States, and had then undertaken
to tax the agents and means used by the State to carry out
these powers, the same reasoning would exempt the officers
and agencies of the State. But this is not our case. There
never was any grant of powers by the United States to the
several States. Consequently there is no parallel. The States
reserved to themselves whatever rights of government they
did not grant to the United States; they granted to the
United States a concurrent right with themselves of taxation
for certain objects; and if in the exercise of that right the
United States taxes officers and private citizens alike, it does
so by virtue of that grant of concurrent taxation.
All that we contend for is the common liability of State
officers for their property. If indeed Congress should impose
* See infra, 121.

Dec. 1870.]

TnE

COLLECTOR V. DAY.

Argument in support of the tax.

a license tax on all State officers-should require a man to pay
fifty dollars, for instance, in order to discharge the duties of
a judge of probate, or State treasurers to pay to the United"
States 5 per cent. of all moneys in their hands-the constitutionality of the enactments might well be doubted. It
might be tested by the inquiry whether they were passed to
carry out the purposes for which the right of taxation was
given to Congress; whether, in fact, their purpose was not
manifestly to injure the State governments.
But taxation of the incomes of State officers derived from
their salaries is exactly that taxation which the State makes.
Therefore, the right to do the same for certain objects was
granted to the United States under the general power of concurrent taxati6n.
It will be said that the tax in this case is in reality a tax
on the revenues of the State, which are withdrawn from the
taxing power of Congress. But inasmuch as a tax in all respects similar is imposed on the State officers by -the State
itself, we have, if this proposition be true, the singular spectacle of a State taxing its own revenues. The same observation may be made regarding the operation of the income
tax on the salaries of United States officers. The truth is,
that in no proper sense is a tax upon income derived from
a salary paid by a State or by the United States a tax upon
the State treasury, or upon that of the United States.
A similar consideration is an answer to the suggestion
that this income tax is a tax upon the State officers, as such.
It is no more so than the like tax imposed by the State itself.
The propriety of making all officers bear their proportion
of the public burdens has commended this course alike to the
States and the general government; but shall we say that
the State taxes the office of a judge of probate? Or that the
United States taxes the office of a major-general ? Is it not
clear that when the salary has. been paid, it belongs to the
officer who receives it, and that he must contribute out of
his substance as well to the support of the army and navy
of his country as of the schools and poor-houses of his State?
Is there any subjugation of State authority here?

THE COLLECTOR V. DAY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the tax.

2. But adopt the general theory of the other side, that
this case is controlled by the cases in which the right of the
States to tax the agencies of the Federal government has
been denied, we submit, that according to these cases the
tax in question can be sustained.
The cases referred to are cases of attempted direct interference by the States with the means used by the general
government to carry out its powers; the difference between
them and the present case is striking, and material.
In McCulloch v. Maryland,* the leading case, the State of
Maryland undertook to tax the issues of notes of a bank of
the United States. The court held that this was a tax on
the means used by the general government to execute one
of their powers, and that the sovereignty of the State did
not extend to those means. But the court said that the real
estate of the bank, and the property of the citizens of the
State in the bank, which are subject to the sovereignty of
the State, were liable to State taxation.
In Weston v. Charleston,t the city of Charleston undertook
to tax "six and seven per cent. stock of the United States."
The court said that this was a tax upon the contract subsisting between the United States and the individual-a tax on
the power to borrow money on the credit of the United States,
which was not within the sovereignty of the State.
In Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County,J the case
stated shows that the plaintiff had been rated and assessed
with county taxes "as an officer of the United States, for his
office, as such, valued at $500." And the statute of Pennsylvania authorized an assessment upon "all offices and posts
of profit." The court held that the statute could not comprehend the offices of the United States, and that is the point
adjudged. The dicta and reasoning in the opinion, or of the
judge who delivered it, are of no authority. The case fell
precisely within the principles laid down in McCulloch v.
Maryl nd, and followed in Weston v. Charleston; namely, that
a State cannot tax the means used by the government of the
* 4 WVheaton, 816.

t- 2 Peters, 449.

+ 16 Peters, 435

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR V. DAY.
Argument in support of the tax.

Union to execute its powers. The court also held that no
State could diminish by taxation the amount of the compensation paid by the United States to their officers; but that
this principle could not serve also to exempt State officers
from taxation by the United States, is more than intimated
in the following sentence from the opinion of the court:
"The officers execute their offices for the public good. This
implies their right of reaping from thence the recompense the
services they may render may deserve; without that recompense
being in any way lessened, except by the sovereign power from
whom the officer derives his appointment, or by another sovereign
power to whom the first has delegated the right of taxation over all
the objects of taxation in common with itself, for the benefit of both."

If now we apply to the tax in question the test laid down
by Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland-if we
measure the power of taxation by the extent of sovereigntywe find a distinct grant from the States to the United States
of sovereignty, and of the sovereign power of taxation over
all the objects of taxation (except exports)-exclusive as regards imports-concurrent with the States as regards everything else. We find this defendant's income derived from
his salary as judge of probate, regarded as a proper object
of taxation by the State, and taxed as other property; the
inference is unavoidable that it is equally taxable by the
United States.
But if it be argued that the sovereignty of the States
requires that the same exemptions should be made from the
taxation of the United States, which have been made from
the taxation of the States in favor of the means used by the
general government to execute its sovereign powers-we
maintaina. That it has never yet been held that a State cannot
tax the income of an officer of the Federal government as
property.*

b. But the conclusive answer to this argument is, that this
* See Melcher v. Boston, 9 Metcalf, 73, 77.

THE COLLECTOR

v. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

court has already decided otherwise in Veazie Bank v. Fenno.
We refer specially to this case. It was a case almost parallel to McCulloch v. Maryland-where the question was,
whether a tax of 10 per cent. on the issues of a State bank
was valid; and the court held it was valid. It held, in Veazie
.Bank v. Fenno, by a majority of the court, that the United
States could lawfully tax the operations of a State bank,
even with the purpose of driving its issues of notes out of
circulation.
But to this point it is not necessary for us to go in the case
before us. All the court were agreed that the property of
the banks, and of all other incorporated institutions of the
States, could be taxed by the United States the same as that
Pf individuals; that is to say, that property acquired under a
grant from a State, in the exercise of one of its sovereign
powers, is subject to that uniform taxation which the Federal
government can impose upon all the property in the country.
Now all that we contend for in this case is, that property,
paid to an individual as an officer of a State by a State, in
the exercise of its constitutional power to have such officers,
is subject to the same taxation from the Federal government.
Mr. Dwight Foster, contra.
Mir. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The case presents the question whether or not it is competent for Congress, under the Constitution of the United
States, to impose a tax upon the salary of a judicial officer
of a State?
In -Dobbinsv. The Commissioners of Erie County,* it was
decided that it was not competent for the legislature of a
State to levy a tax upon the salary or emoluments of an
officer of the United States. The decision was placed mainly
upon the ground that the officer was a means or instrumentality employed for carrying into effect some of the legitimate powers of the government, which could not be inter* 16 Peters, 435.

Dec. 1870.]

TiE COLLECTOR v. DAY.
Opinion of t1le court.

fered with by taxation or otherwise by the States, and that
the salary or compensation for the service of the officer was
inseparably connected with the office; that if the officer, as
such, was exempt, the salary assigned for his support or
maintenance while holding the office was also, for like
reasons, equally exempt.
The cases of Me Culloch v. Maryland,* and Weston v. Charleston,t were referred to as settling the principle that governed
the case, namely, "that the State governments cannot lay a
tax upon the constitutional means employed by the government of the Union to execute its constitutional powers."
The soundness of this principle is happily illustrated by the
Chief Justice in MJcCulloch v. Maryland.1 "If the States,"
he observes, "may tax one instrument employed by the government in the execution of its powers, they may tax any
and every other instrument. They may tax the mail; they
may tax the mint; they may tax patent-rights; they may
tax judicial process; they may tax all the means employed
by the government to an excess which would defeat all the
ends of government." "This," he observes, "w a s not intended by the American people. They did not design to
make their government dependent on the States." Again,ยง
"That the power of taxing it (the bank) by the States may
be exercised so far as to destroy it, is too obvious to be
denied." And, in Weston v. The City of Charleston, he observes :11"If the right to impose the tax exists, it is a right
which, .in its nature, acknowledges no limits. It may be
carried to any extent within the jurisdiction of the State or
corporation which imposes it which the will of each State
and corporation may prescribe."
It is conceded in the case of .AeCulloch v. Maryland, that
the power of taxation by the States was not abridged by the
grant of a similar power to the government of the Union;
that it was retained by the States, and that the power is to
be concurrently exercised by the two governments; and also
that there is no express constitutional prohibition upon the
4 Wheaton, 316.
lb. 427.

j 2 Peters, 449.
112 Peters, 466.

4 Wheaton, 432.

THE

COLLECTOR V. DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

States against taxing the means or instrumentalities of the
general government. But, it was held, and, we agree
properly held, to be prohibited by necessary implication;
otherwise, the States might impose taxation to an extent
that would impair, if not wholly defeat, the operations of the
Federal authorities when acting in their appropriate sphere.
These views, we think, abundantly establish the soundness
of the decision of the case of Dobbins v. The Commissioners
of Erie, which determined that the States were prohibited,
upon a proper construction of the Constitution, from taxing
the salary or emoluments of an officer of the government of
the United States. And we shall now proceed to show that,
upon the same construction of that instrument, and for like
reasons, that government is prohibited from taxing the salary
of the judicial officer of a State.
It is a familiar rule of construction of the Constitution of
the Union, that the sovereign powers vested in the State
governments by their respective constitutions, remained unaltered and unimpaired, except so far as they were granted
to the government of the United States. That the intention
of the framers of the Constitution in this respect might not
be misunderstood, this rule of interpretation is expressly declared in the tenth article of the amendments, namely: "The
powers not delegated to the United States are reserved to the
States respectively, or, to the people." The government of
the United States, therefore, can claim no powers which are
not granted to it by the Constitution, and the powers actually granted must be such as are expressly given, or given
by necessary implication.
The general government, and the States, although both
exist within the same territorial limits, are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting separately and independently of
each other, within their respective spheres. The former in
its appropriate sphere is supreme; but the States within the
limits of their powers not granted, or, in the language of
the tenth amendment, "reserved," are as independent of the
general government as that government within its sphere is
independent of the States.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COLLECTOR v. DAY.
Opinion of the court.

The relations existing between the two governments are
well stated by. the present Chief Justice in the case of Lane
County v. Oregon.* "Both the States and the United States,"
lie observed, "existed before the Constitution. The people,
through that instrument, established a more perfect union,
by substituting a lational government, acting with ample
powers directly upon the citizens, instead of the Confederate government, which acted with powers greatly restricted,
only upon the States. But, in many of the articles of the
Constitution, the necessary existence of the States, and
within their proper spheres, the independent authority of
the States, are distinctly recognized. To them nearly the
whole charge of interior regulation is committed or left; to
them, and to the people, all powers, not expressly delegated
to the N~ational government, are reserved." Upon looking
into the Constitution it will be found that but a few of the
articles in that instrument could be carried into practical
effect without the existence of the States.
Two of the great departments of the government, the
executive and legislative, depend upon the exercise of the
powers, or upon the people of the States. The Constitution guarantees to the States a republican form of government, and protects each against invasion or domestic violence. Such being the separate and independent condition
of the States in our complex system, as recognized by the
Constitution, and the existence of which is so indispensable,
that, wifhout them, the general government itself would
disappear from the family of nations, it would seem.to follow, as a reasonable, if not a necessary consequence, that
the means and instrumentalities employed for carrying on
the operations of their governments, for preserving their
existence, and fulfilling the high and responsible duties assigned to them in the Constitution, should be left free and
unimpaired, should not be liable to be crippled, much less
defeated by the taxing power of another government, which
power acknowledges no limits but the will of the legislative
* 7 Wallace, 76.

THE COLLECTOR V. DAY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

body imposing the tax. And, more especially, those means
and instrumentalities which are the creation of their sovereign and reserved rights, one of which is the establishment
of the judicial department, and the appointment of officers
to administer their laws. Without this power, and the exercise of it, we risk nothing in saying that no one of the
States under the form of government guaranteed by the
Constitution could long preserve its existence. A despotic
government might. We have said that one of the reserved
powers was that to establish a judicial department; it would
have been more accurate, and in accordance with the existing state of things at the time, to have said the power to
maintain a judicial department. All of the thirteen States
were in the possession of this power, and had exercised it
at the adoption of the Constitution; and it is not pretended
that any grant of it to the general government is found in
that instrument. It is, therefore, one of the sovereign powers
vested in the States by their constitutions, which remained
unaltered and unimpaired, and in respect to which the State
iยง as independent of the general government as that government is independent of the States.
The supremacy of the general government, therefore, so
much relied on in the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in error, in respect to the question before us, cannot be
maintained. The two governments are upon an equality,
and the question is whether the power "to lay and collect
taxes" enables the general government to tax the salary of
a judicial officer of the State, which officer is a means or
instrumentality employed to carry into execution one of its
most important functions, the administration of the laws,
and which concerns the exercise of a right reserved to the
States ?
We do not say the mere circumstance of the establishment
of the judicial department, and the appointment of officers
to administer the laws, being among the reserved powers of
the State, disables the general government from levying the
tax, as that depends upon the express power "to lay and
collect taxes," but it shows that it is an original inherent

Dec. 1870.]

TnE

COLLECTOR

v. DAY.

Opinion of the court.

power never parted with, and, in respect to which, the
supremacy of that government does not exist, and is of no
importance in determining the question; and fhrther, that
being an original and reserved power, and the judicial officers appointed under it being a means or instrumentality
employed to carry it into effect, the right and necessity of
its unimpaired exercise, and the exemption of the officer
from taxation by the general government stand upon as
solid a ground, and are maintained by principles and reasons as cogent as those which led to the exemption of the
Federal officer in Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie from
taxation by the State; for, in this respect, that is, in respect
to the reserved powers, the State is as sovereign and independent as the general government. And if the means and
instrumentalities employed by that government to carry into
operation the powers granted to it are, necessarily, and, for
the sake of self-preservation, exempt from taxation by the
States, why are not those of the States depending upon their
reserved powers, for like reasons, equally exempt from Federal taxation? Their unimpaired existence in the one case
is as essential as in the other. It is admitted that there is
no express provision in the Constitution that prohibits the
general government from taxing the means and instrumentalities of the States, nor is there any prohibiting the States
from taxing the means and instrumentalities of that government. In both cases the exemption rests upon necessary
implication, and is upheld by the great law of self-preservation; as any government, whose means employed in. conducting its operations, if subject to the control of another
and distinct government, can exist only at the mercy of that
government. Of what avail are these means .if another
power may tax them at discretion?
But we are referred to the Veazie Bank v. _Fenno,* in support of this power of taxation. That case furnishes a strong
illustration of the position taken by the Chief Justice in
Mculloch v. Maryland, namely, "That the power to tax involves the power to destroy."
* 8 Wallace, 588.

TnE COLLECTOR

v.

DAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

The power involved was one which had been exercised by
the States since the foundation of the government, and had
been, after the lapse of three-quarters of a century, annihilated from excessive taxation by the general government,
just as the judicial office in the present case might be, if
subject, at all, to taxation by that government. But, notwithstanding the sanction of this taxation by a majority of
the court, it is conceded, in the opinion, that "the reserved
rights of the States, such as the right to pass laws; to give
effect to laws through executive action; to administer justice through the courts, and to employ all necessary agencies
for legitimate purposes of State government, are not proper
subjects of the taxing power of Congress." This concession
covers the case before us, and adds the authority of this
court in support of the doctrine which we have endeavored
to maintain.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, because, it seems to me that the general government has the
same power of taxing the income of officers of the State
governments as it has of taxing that of its own officers. It
is the common government of all alike; and every citizen is
presumed to trust his own government in the matter of taxation. No man ceases to be a citizen of the United States
by being an officer under the State government. I cannot
accede to the doctrine that the general government is to be
regarded as in any sense foreign-or antagonistic to the State
governments, their officers, or people; nor can I agree that
a presumption can be admitted that the general government
will act in a manner hostile to the existence or functions of
the State governments, which are constituent parts of the
system or body politic forming the basis on which the general
government is founded. The taxation by the State governnients of the instruments employed by the general government in the exercise of its powers, is a very different thing.
Such taxation involves an interference with the powers of

'Dec. 1870.]

COmPANY V. DowNER

TRANSPORTATION

129

Syllabus.

a government in which other States and their citizens are
equally interested with the State which imposes the taxation. In my judgment, the limitation of the power of taxation in the general government, which the present decision
establishes, will be found very difficult of control. Where
are we to stop in enumerating the functions of the State
governments which will be interfered with by Federal taxation ? If a State incorporates a railroad to carry out its
purposes of internal improvement, or a bank to aid its financial arrangements, reserving, perhaps, a percentage on the
stock or profits, for the supply of its own treasury, will the
bonds or stock of such an institution be free from Federal
taxation ? How can we now tell what the effect of this decision will be? I cannot but regard it as founded on a
fallacy, and that it will lead to mischievous consequences.
I am as much opposed as any one can be to any interference
by the general government with the just powers of the State
governments. But no concession of any of the just powers
of the general government can easily be recalled. I, therefore, consider it my duty to at least record my dissent when
such concession appears to be made. An extended discussion of the subject would answer no useful purpose.

TRANSPORTATION

OMPANY v. DOWNER.

1. The terms "dangers of lake navigation" include all the ordinary perils
which attend navigation on the lakes, and among others, that which
arises from shallowness of the waters at the entrance of harbors formed.
- from them.
1. When a defendant-a transportation comiany-shows that a loss of
goods, which it had contracted to carry from one port to another, was
occasioned by a danger of lake navigation, from losses by which it had
exempted itself by its bill of lading, the plaintiff may show that the
danger and consequent loss might have been avoided by the exercise
of proper care and skill on the part of the defendant; in which case the
defendant will be liable notwithstanding the exemption in the bill of
lading. The burden of establishing the absence of such care and skill
on the part of the defendant rests with the plaintiff.
VOL. X1.

9

