DECISIONS
IN TH

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1870.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAm.
1. The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States is not
limited by the statutes or judicial prohibitions of :England.
First. The locus, or territory, of maritime jurisdiction where torts must
be committed, and where business must be transacted in order to be
maritime in their character, extends not only to the main sea, but to all
the navigable waters of the United States, or bordering on the same,
whether land-locked or open, salt or fresh, tide or no tide.
Secondly. As to contracts, the true criterion whether they are within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is their nature and subject-matter,
as, whether they are maritime contracts, having reference to maritime
service, maritime transactions, or maritime casualties, without regard
to the place where they were made.
In view of these principles it was held that the contract of marine insurance is a maritime contract, within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, though not within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States courts.
2. The case of De Lovio v. Boit (2 Gallison, 398), affirmed.
8. This court has jurisdiction, under the act of 1802, of a certificate of
division of opinion between the associate justice of the Supreme Court
and the Circuit judge, together holding the Circuit Court, under the
act of 1869, as well as between either of the said judges, and the District judge.

Ox certificate of division in opinion between the j'udges

of the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
VOL. XL.
( I)

INSURANCE

CO.PANY V. DUNHAM,

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The act of Congress of April 29th, 1802,* provides that
"Whenever any question shall occur before a Circuit Court,
upon which the opinions of the judges shall be opposed, the point
upon which the disagreement shall happen, shall, during the
same term, upon the request of either party or their counsel, be
stated under the direction of the judges, and certified under the
seal of the court, to the Supreme Court, at their next session
to be held thereafter, and shall by the said court be finally decided."
At the time when this statute was passed the Circuit
Court, when consisting of more than a single judge, was
composed of a judge of the Supreme Court of the United
States and the District judge of the district sitting together,
and this organization remained until April 10th, 1869.
By act of that day,t "to amend the judicial system of the
United States," it was enacted:
"That for each of the nine existing judicial circuits there
shall be appointed a Circuitjudge, who shall reside in his circuit,
and shall possess the same power and jurisdiction therein as the
justice of the Supreme Court allotted to the circuit. The Circuit Courts in each circuit shall be held by the justice of the
Supreme Court allotted to the circuit; or by the Circuit judge
of the circuit; or by the District judge, or by the justice of the
Supreme Court and Circuitjudge sitting together, ... or, in the
absence of either of them, by the other . . . and the District
judge."
In this state of enactment a libel in personam had been
filed in the District Court for the District of Massachusetts,
by one Dunham against the New England Mutual Marine
Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance, dated at Boston on the 2d day of March, 1863, whereby the insurance
company, a corporation of Massachusetts, agreed to insure
Dunham, the libellant, a citizen of New York, in the sum
-of $10,000, for whom it might concern, on a vessel called
* 2 Stat. at Large, 159.

* 16 Id. 44.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHM.

3

Statement of the case.

the Albina, for one year, against the perils of the seas and
other perils in the policy mentioned; and the libellant
alleged that within the year the said vessel was run into by
another vessel on the high seas, through the negligence of
those navigating the said other vessel, and sustained much
damage, and that the libellant had expended large sums of
money in repairing the same, of which he claimed payment
of the insurance company.
The question was whether -the District Court, sitting in
admiralty, had jurisdiction to entertain a libel in personam
on a policy of marine insurance to recover for a loss.
The Constitution ordains, ifwill be remembered, that
"The judicial power shall extend . . to all cases of admiraltk'
and maritime jurisdiction."
And the Judiciary Act of 1789, which established the
District Courts, declares that they shall have
,,
exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty
and mariti-me jurisdiction . . .saving to suitors in all cases the

right of a common law remedy -where the common law is competent to give it."
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellant, and
the insurance company appealed to the Circuit Court. The
judges of that court were opposed in opinion on the point
raised, and it was accordingly certified to this court. Two
questions were thus before this court:
1. Whether since the reorganization of the Circuit Courts
under the act of 1869, a difference of opinion between a
judge of the Supreme Court and "the Circuit judge," created by that act, sitting as the Circuit Court, could be certified to this court under the act of 1802.
2. If it could, what was the proper answer to be returned
to the question certified? Had the District Court, sitting in
admiralty, jurisdiction to entertain the libel in this case, the
same being a libel in personam on a policy of marine insurance to recover for a loss?
The latter question was the one to which the briefs of
counsel were directed.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Mr. F. C. Loring, for the libellants and in support of the juris-

diction:
By the universal and unanimous foreign practice and authorities, with one exception only, the contract of marine
insurance is considered to be maritime, and a proper subject
for the cognizance of a court vested with jurisdiction over
maritime cases. It might, therefore, have been anticipated,
that when the question came before the admiralty courts of
the United States, vested with jurisdiction over all maritime
cases, the, decision would be in favor of the jurisdiction.
This does not seem to have happened for more than twenty
years after the adoption of the Constitution. As the courts
of common law exercise concurrent jurisdiction over contracts of insurance, and as the plaintiffs in suits thereon
would naturally prefer not to waive the benefit of a trial by
jury, and of a trial in their own courts; and as the lawyers
of that day were brought up according to and by the common law, this is not surprising. No case is found, in the
reports of any of the courts of the United States, of an
,action in the admiralty on a policy of insurance until the
year 1815, nor on a charter-party, nor for freight, till 1829.*
At the October Term of the Circuit Court for Massachusetts, in 1815, the question was first presented by a libel on
a policy of insurance. A plea to the jurisdiction was interposed, and the result was the opinion of Story, J., in De Lovio
v. Boit,t deciding in favor of the jurisdiction.
iHow this decision was received at the time is not now
known. A:s this court was then constituted, it is probable
that the jurisdiction would have been maintained on appeal.
Marshall, C. J., affirmed, in The Little Charles,J in 1819, that
* No report of a suit in the admiralty on a charter-party or bill of lading
has been found before the case of The Spartan (Ware, 149), which was de-

cided in 1829.
Story, J., in

In 1834, the jurisdiction was denied, and was sustained by
The Volunteer (1 Sulnner, 551).

The question cannot be

considered as having been finally settled till the decision of this court in
7

this case of The New Jersey Steamboat Cbmyany v. The Merchants' Ban c, in

1848 (6 Howard, 344).
t 2 Gallison, 398.

: 1 Brockenbrough, 380.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

v. DUNHAM.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

"The courts of the United States have never doubted their
right to proceed under their general powers as courts of admiralty, where they are not restrained from the use of these
powers by statute."
That Washington, J., would have sustained the jurisdiction, cannot be doubted. In The Seneca,* he says:
"I not only admit, but insist, first, that the judicial power of
the United States under the Constitution, and the jurisdiction
of the District Courts under the ninth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, embrace all cases of maritime nature, whether they
be particularly of admiralty cognizance, or not.
"Second. That this jurisdiction, and the law regulating its
exercise, are to be sought for in the general maritime law of
nations, and are not confined to that of England, or of any other
particular maritime nation."
He afterwards speaks of the ordinances of Louis XIV, as
generally adopted, as evidence of the maritime law of nations.
Differenice of opinion as to the extent of the admiralty
jurisdiction has occurred only of late date. It first appearsl
eminently in ramsay v. AUegre, in 1827, in the dissenting
opinion of Johnson, J., with whom have concurred, at different times, Baldwin, and Daniel, and Campbell, JJ., and
others to a less extent; but the majority of the court have
uniformly held that the practical jurisdiction of the English
admiralty affords no rule for the jurisdiction vested in the
conrts of the United States by the Constitution and by Congress, and that that embraces all maritime contracts.
In the reports of this court, and of other courts of the
United States, no other reference has been found to the contract of insurance as a matter of admiralty jurisdiction, except in Taylor v. Carryl,t where Taney, C. J., expressed a
doubt upon the subject, which had not been presented, or
referred to in the argument, and which evidently he had not
examined.
Considering the authorities apart from the repeated decla* 18 American Jurist, 486.

t 20 Howard, 585.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

rations of this court, that the admiralty jurisdiction of the
District Court extends generally over maritime contracts,

and the universal admission that marine insurance is a maritime contract, we have in favor of the jurisdiction three decisions of Story, J., in point.* The opinion of Woodbury,
J.,t that insurance is clearly a contract within the admiralty
jurisdiction. The fact that Curtis, J., sustained the jurisdiction as a settled practice in the first circuit,J and,-as counsel, took no exception to it.§ The decisions of Sprague, J.,I1
and Ware, J., of the District Court, and the opinions of
Mr. Dunlap,** Mr. Benedict,t Conkling, J.,JJ and Chancellor Kent.§§
The weight of authority is in favor of the jurisdiction.
Indeed, there is an absence of authority against it, even in
England. There is no case on record known, in which the
Court of Admiralty has refused to entertain jurisdiction over
the subject, or in which the courts of common law have
prohibited it. In admiralty commissions, insurance is usually
mentioned as a matter over which jurisdiction is to be exercised; and in Scotland, the Court of Admiralty, under
similar commissions, constantly entertains such jurisdiction.
All that can be said about the exercise of the jurisdiction
by the English court is, that, practically, it has not been
resorted to. This is no argument against the jurisdiction of
the courts of another nation, having jurisdiction over all
maritime contracts, which they have exercised for more
than fifty years over contracts of insurance. The only
* De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallison, 398; Peele v. Merchants' Insurance Co.,
3 Mason, 27; Hale v. Washington Insurance Co., 2 Story., 176.
t Dean v. Bates, 2 Woodbury & Minot, 88.
Gloucester Insurance Co. v. Younger, 2 Curtis, 322.
Hale v. Washington Insurance Co., supra, *.

Younger v. Gloucester Insurance Co., 1 Sprague, 243.
The Spartan, Ware, 152.
Y*

Admiralty Practice, 43.

ti

Admiralty Practice, 8, 50, 147, 166.

fl

Admiralty Practice, 13.

J See note, 1 Kent, 370, in which "Insurance"
of settled admiralty jurisdiction.

is mentioned as a matter

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

DUNHAM.

7

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

question then, is, whether or not marine insurance is a contract concerning matters of navigation, trade, commerce, &c.;
or in other words, a maritime contract. Theie can be only
one answer; and the jurisdiction follows of course.
An argument in favor of a general jurisdiction of the
United States courts in admiralty, over maritime cases, may
be drawn from the power vested in Congress to regulate
commetce. By virtue of this, Congress may legislate on
all commercial matters; it may enact a code of commerce,
regulating all affairs of navigation, affreightments, averages,
marine insurances, and other maritime matters, and has exercised this power to some extent in those acts which limit
the liability of ship-owners, provide for the registration of
ships, regulate the carriage of passengers, establish rules for
the carrying of lights, the navigation of vessels, &c., &c. It
would seem that the jurisdiction of the 'maritime courts of
the United States should be coextensive, and should embrace
all commercial and maritime matters which Congress has
the power to regulate. The remedies afforded by the United
States courts of common law and equity are not adapted to
all maritime cases, especially where a lien exists; and as
their jurisdiction generally depends on the residence of the
parties, it is doubtful whether they could exercise it in all
cases; and there might be the anomaly of a government
with power to make laws and no tribunals to administer
them; and this without remedy; for Congress has vested in
the courts it created all the admiralty jurisdiction which the
Constitution authorized it to confer. The power is exhausted, and if the United States courts have not jurisdiction
over all maritime cases, they cannot acquire it, except by an
amendnent of the Constitution.

If this were attempted, it

would be difficult to find words sufficient to create a more
ample jurisdiction than those used in the Constitution and
consequent act of Congress. If these courts have not jurisdiction over all maritime contracts and cases, it is not for
want of certainty and distinctness in the law, but by reason
of judicial construction and legislation, limiting the general
terms used in the Constitution and statute.

8

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

The question of admiralty jurisdiction is in a measure
historical, and to be determined by the jurisdiction actually
exercised by the Vice-Admiralty colonial courts before the
Revolution; inasmuch as such practical jurisdiction must
have been known and contemplated by the framers of the
Constitution. Now it is a matter of history that the commissions issued by the crown to the judges of the colonial
courts of admiralty, conferred, in terms, unlimited jurisdiction over all maritime cases, and usually specified "po l cies of assurance,"* and that these courts, or some of them,
exercised this jurisdiction over all maritime cases, without
limit or qualification. Until lately not much was known
about the jurisdiction actually exercised by these courts.
There is little in the books to show what it was.
The Province of Massachusetts Bay, which comprised
Massachusetts, Maine, and Nova Scotia, was, before the Revolution., probably more largely engaged in commerce than
any other, and the records of the Court of Admiralty held
in it would be likely to contain more maritime decisions
,than would be found elsewhere. Under the first charter of
the Colony of Massachusetts Bay, admiralty jurisdiction was
not reserved to the crown. It was exercised by the Court
lof Assistants. In Ancient Charters,t will be found a code
regulating the rights and duties of mariners, owners, masters, freighters, contributors, &c.; and the last article of the
chapter provides that:
"All cases of adifiiralty shall be heard and determined by the
Court of Assistants . . . without jury, unless the court shall

see cause to the contrary. Provided, always, this act shall not
be interpreted to obstruct the just plea of any mariner or merchant impleading any person in any other court, upon any matter
or cause that depends upon contract, covenant, or other matter
of common equity, in maritime affairs."
In other words, the Court of Assistants was vested with
* See the commissions quoted in De Lovio v.Boit, and in Benedict's Admiralty Practice, pp. 82, 90.
t Appendix, 716.

He states that he has seen nine commissions.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY v. DUNHAM.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

admiralty jurisdiction over all maritime cases of contract,
covenant, or other matter of equity, reserving to the courts
of common law concurrent jurisdiction, as is done by the
.Judiciary Act. This act was passed in the year 1678, and
shows what was considered to be the proper jurisdiction of
the admiralty at that time. No allusion is made to the
English practice, though that must have been well known;
but the Court of Assistants was vested with the fullest jurisdiction over all maritime contracts, and other matters of
(maritime) equity. The act seems to be a code or compilation of rules for the regulation of commerce, navigation,
freight, and wages, &c.. similar to those to be found in the
marine ordinances and other sea-codes, besides appointing
a tribunal for their administration. It is quite long, containing thirty sections, of the last of which a part has been
quoted. It was probably annulled when the first charter
was vacated in 1684.
When the charter of the Province of Massachusetts Bay
was granted, in 1691, all "admiral court,jurisdiction,power, or
authority," was reserved to the crown, to be exercised by
virtue of commissions to be issued under the great seal.*
Some of the commissions issued to the judges of the Admiralty .Court provinces may be found in the books, and they
confer jurisdiction over all maritime causes and cases in the
most unqualified terms.t But until lately, little was known
as to what jurisdiction was actually exercised by the judges
under these commissions. In the office of the District Court
for Massachusetts there was only one imperfect volume of.
the records of the Vice-Admiralty Court of the province.
This is not half filled, and contains only a few cases which
relate to matters of prize, revenue, and wages. The other
Charters, p. 36.
t A commission is quoted at length in Benedict's Admiralty, 83, which
is stated to be a translation of one issued to Roger Mompesson in 1703, as
judge of Vice-Admiralty in the provinces of Massachusetts Bay, New
Hampshire, Connecticut, Rhode Island, the Jerseys, New York, and Pennsylvania. In this commission, among other contracts specified, are "poli*Ancient

cies of assurance."

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

volumes were supposed to have been taken to Halifax, at the
time of the evacuation of Boston, and to have been lost or
destroyed. Lately, two volumes have been found among
the papers of a former registrar of the court, and have been
deposited in the library of the Boston Athenaum; they are
the second and third volumes, beginning in 1718, and extending to 1733. The first is missing. The one in the
clerk's office extends from 1740 to 1744 only; and the rest
are also missing.* An examination of these two volumes
discloses that the court exercised jurisdiction over all maritime cases. Besides numerous suits for wages, and liberations, and assaults, they contain records of over fifty cases
of libels on maritime contracts. There may be found libels
for contribution, both in rem and in personam; on charterparties, on contracts of affreightment for freight, for nondelivery or damage to goods; between owners for an account;
by masters in rem for wages and disbursements; against a
mate for non-performance of his contract; for surveys, condemnations, and sales; of material-men, for supplies in
home port in rem; against mate, for error in making a bill
of lading; by builder of a ship, for its price in ren, after it
.had been delivered; by passengers, and various other cases.
In one case, a consignee sued a master for non-delivery: he
answered that the goods were thrown overboard for the
common safety; the court found that the jettison was justifiable, and sent the case to commissioners to adjust the average. This decision anticipated that of Dupont v. Vancet more
than a century. Another case resembles Taylor v. Ckrryl.t
It was a suit in rem, by an assignee of a master and mate,
for wages, &t. The libel alleged that the vessel had been
attached by a creditor at common law. The court ordered
the marshal to take possession and sell; and, after satisfying the -claim of the libellant, to pay the residue into the
registry, to answer the claim of the attaching.creditors. In
* It is not known that any of the records of the other Vice-Admiralty
courts are in existence. They were probably carried off or destroyed at the
time of the Revolution.
$ 20 Id. 583.
t
19 Howard, 162.

Dec. 1870.] INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUNHAM.
Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Taylor v. Carryl, a divided court held that an attachment at
common law could not be so subjected to a maritime lien.
If a similar jurisdiction was exercised in the admiralty courts
of the other colonies, there would be no doubt as to what
the framers of the Constitution had in mind.* There is one
case reported in Pennsylvania, Talbot's Case,t which shows
that the Court of Admiralty of that province exercised jurisdiction over all maritime cases. An act of Assembly gave
the judge of admiralty cognizance of all suits of maritime
jurisdiction not cognizable at common law. Literally construed, this would have limited the jurisdiction to matters
of prize. But the Supreme Court held-that it 5ould not have
been so intended, and that the true construction was, that the
jurisdiction embraced all suits of a maritime nature not properly cognizable at common law, and, consequently, all those
relating to maritime matters over which the common law
had usurped or otherwise obtained jurisdiction; thus extending the jurisdiction to the largest limit ever claimed for
it. That the framers of te Constitution, and the lawyers
of that day, were familiar with a different and more extensive jurisdiction in the colonies than was practiced in the
English Court of Admiralty, is asserted by Wayne, J., in his
opinion in Waring v. Clarke, and the authorities cited by him
maintain the assertion. It will be found, on examining the
records referred to, that no objection was made to the extensive jurisdiction exercised. It seems to have been considered a matter about which there could be no doubt. In
one case only was there a plea to the jurisdiction. A master
sued in rem, in the home port, for wages and disbursements.
Such a plea was interposed and overruled.
Thus it appears that the jurisdiction claimed by Story, J.,
Ware, J., and others, for the admiralty courts of the United
States, is not anything new and before unknown, but only
that it is not so extensive as that which was actually exercised
by the colonial courts.
If the jurisdiction, known to have been exercised by the
* Opinion of Mr. Justice Wayne, 5 Howard, 454.

t 1 Dallas, 95.

INSURAICE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

admiralty courts before the Revolution, is to be taken as the
rule, it must be admitted that every case which can properly
be defined as maritime, is a proper subject for the jurisdiction of the United States District Court; and, of course,
marine insurance.
The same conclusion must be drawn from the fact that
admiralty jurisdiction was exercised by the Vice-Admiralty
Court of Massachusetts, over all maritime contracts and
cases. The judge who presided in that court was at the
same time the judge of the Vice-Admiralty Courts of New
York, Pennsylvania, the Jerseys, New Hampshire, Connecticut, 'Maine and Nova Scotia,* and it must have been that
he held and exercised the same jurisdiction, when holding
court in the other colonies or provinces included in his commission, that he did when sitting in Massachusetts.
The argument, to be derived from history, is conclusive in
favor of a literal construction of the words of the Constitution and statute giving the courts of the United States jurisdiction over all admiralty and maritime cases. For it appears that the commissions, issued to the judges of the ViceAdmiralty courts, before the Revolution, conferred jurisdiction over all maritime cases without restrictions, sometimes
specifying "policies of assurances," and that this jurisdiction
was exercised to its fullest extent, without any regard to the
practice of the English Court of Admiralty, in most, if not
in all, of the colonies or provinces which afterwards became
the United States. It is impossible to suppose that this
practice was not known to the statesmen and lawyers who
framed the Constitution, or that they contemplated any limit
to the jurisdiction which the Court of Admiralty they created might exercise over maritime contracts and cases. - It
appears from The Federalist,that, in the Convention, no disposition was shown to deny the National judiciary the cognizance of maritime cases; and it does not appear that any
* Benedict, Admiralty Practice, 88, note, contains a memorandum of a
commission to Roger Mompesson, dated April, 1703, appointing him judge
of admiralty in these colonies. 2Maine and Nova Scotia then were parts of
the Province of Massachusetts Bay.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

DUNHAM.

13

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

objection was made to this grant in the State conventions
which adopted the Constitution.*
Another argument in favor of the exercise of a large
jurisdiction over maritime contracts, and contracts of marine insurance especially, is that it tends to promote uniformity of principle and practice throughout the different
States in the administration of law. The practical reasons
in support of such a jurisdiction generally, are stated by
Taney, 0. J., in Taylor v. Garryl. Of all maritime contracts,
that of insurance is probably the one most extensively in
use. It is known and practiced in all civilized countries.
It is important that the rules, practice, and laws which relate
to it should be the same throughout the world, so far as is
possible. That they vary in different places is a source of
much c.onfusion and embarrassment, and has been greatly
lamented by jurists. This court cannot, of course, influence courts of other countries directly, but it can do much
towards establishing uniformity of law and practice in the
construction and administration of the law of insurance in
this country by exercising jurisdiction over the subject. It
can, by so doing, establish rules and principles for the regulation of this contract, which will bind all the other courts
of the United States. Now, the contract and the rights and
liabilities of the parties to it, are construed differently in
almost every State. Probably in no two States are the laws
and practices, concerning insurance, the same.

In Massa-

chusetts, an insurer may take a vessel into his possession
and repair it, without being held to have accepted an abandonmenL This court, and some State courts, hold that he
cannot. This court holds that if a ship be voluntarily
stranded and lost, and the cargo saved thereby, it and its
insurers are subject to a contribution for the loss. In Massachusetts, until lately, and in other States, a different rule
prevails. This court holds that an insurer is not liable for
the damage which the offending vessel in a collision is
obliged to pay. The contrary is the rule in the courts of
* See Elliot's Debates.

14

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Massachusetts. lumb~rless illustrations might be adduced
to show the want of uniformity and chaotic state of the law
and practice of insurance; but it is, unhappily, too notorious. If a suit on a contract of insurance can be maintained in the admiralty, it must be decided according to the
rules and principles of this court, and that would establish
absolute uniformity in one court in every State in the Union,
and have a strong tendency to establish it in the State courts,
because of the great dignity of the court, the respect paid to
its decisions, and its controlling influence over all matters
over which it exercises jurisdiction. If the admiralty cannot
exercise this jurisdiction, it must be left principally to the
State courts, and the differences of opinion and practice, so
much deplored, will remain and increase. The jurisdiction
of the Federal courts, at law and in equity, being generally
dependent on the citizenship of the parties, cannot often be
invoked; and the decisions of these courts, however highly
respected, are not conclusive and binding on the State courts
in matters depending on private contracts. If, on the other
hand, the jurisdiction of the admiralty over insurance should
be established, the great advantage of its process, the celerity
of its proceedings, and its other advantages, will cause it to
be largely resorted to, and the thirty-seven District Courts,
and all the Circuit Courts, being subject to one rule, uniformity of principle and decision will be established through
all the States, the advantages of which in a nation of such
commerce as this, and where contracts of insurance are
made, a thousand or more every day, cannot be overstated.
The libellants therefore submit, that to exercise jurisdiction over policies of marine insurance is the established law
and practice of the Circuit Court for the first circuit held by
justices of this court; that such practice is in conformity
with the universal maritime law and usage; with the decisions of this court affirming jurisdiction over charter-parties,
and maritime contracts generally; with the jurisdiction exercised by the Vice-Admiralty courts before the Revolution,
which must have been known to the makers of the Constitution; and is imperatively required to carry into effect the

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUNHAM.

15

Argument against the jurisdiction.

provisions of the Constitution touching the jurisdiction of
its courts and the regulation of commerce, and to establish
uniformity of principle and practice throughout the Union
in one of the most important branches of commercial law.
It cannot now be questioned that the framers of the Constitution intended to vest in Congress the power to establish
courts to exercise admiralty jurisdiction over all admiralty
and maritime cases.
Congress, in the exercise of its discretion, might have
conferred upon the courts it was to create such jurisdiction
as it should see fit, and limit it to certain cases, but nothing
of the kind was done. The Judiciary Act confers on the
District Courts unqualified jurisdiction over all civil admiralty and maritime cases.
If, then, the contract of marine insurance is "maritime,"

it is a subject over which the District Courts of the United
States must exercise jurisdiction.
1Ur. T. C. .Hutchins, contra, agabist thejurisdiction:

A policy of marine insurance is not a maritime contract
within the meaning of that clause of the Constitution which
delegates to the judicial power of the United States cognizance of "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
1. Because this clause is to be construed with reference to
the restricted jurisdiction of the admiralty as recognized
both in this country and England at the time when the Constitution was adopted. And admiralty has never claimed
jurisdiction over insurance in England.
2. The decisions of the American courts at the period of
the Revolution, and immediately after, conclusively prove
the restricted jurisdiction of admiralty as fixed by the Constitution.
In L'Arina v. Manwaring,* A. D. 1803, Bee, J., said:
"1Bills of lading, policies of insurance, and bottomry bonds,
where the vessel'is not hypothecated according to the marine
law, are all suable at common law only. Yet these contracts are
all more or less connected with a voyage."
* Bee, 200.

16

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

So in Dean v. A3gus,* per Hopkinson, J., as early as 1785,
the same is intimated. So in The Two Eriends,t per Bee,
J. (A. D. 1786), it was held that admiralty extended only to
maritime causes, and did not embrace "any transactionsor
contracts which arise on land." So again in 1784, it was held
in Pennsylvania that admiralty jurisdiction was confined to
" things done upon the seas."I A shipwright cannot sue in
'the admiralty.§ Material-men could not sue there either.IJ
Nor could contracts for necessaries be sued, if furnished
before the voyage was begun. Nor ransom bills. Nor
charter-parties.
Nor was there any jurisdiction over cases
of hypothecation, where the hypothecation took place before
the commencement of the voyage, not even if the ship was
hypothecated for necessaries without which the ship could
not proceed to sea.** Nor could a master sue for his wages;
nor a physician, for his services on a voyage.tt This last
case limits the jurisdiction to such claims as are either of
themselves, or in their origin, liens on the ship; and this was
the rule which Judge Peters said he always observed in determining whether a given case was within the jurisdiction.
Certainly such a rule could not apply to policies of insurance; for they create no lien.
The cases cited above are the decisions of Judges Bee,
IHopkinson, and Peters, all men of the revolutionary era,
who were well acquainted with the limits of the admiralty
jurisdiction as understood by the jurists and statesmen who
framed the Constitution. They furnish the most trustworthy means for construing the admiralty powers as conferred by the Constitution.
3. No case can be found in the history of the admiralty of
this country prior to the case of .DeLovio v. Boit, in 1815, that
*

Bee, 375, 376. jt Ib. 435. * Talbot v. The Commanders, 1 Dallas, 98.

Clinton v. The Brig Hannah and Ship General Knox, Bee, 419, per
Hopkinson, J. (A. D. 1781).
11O'Hara v. Ship Mary, Bee, 100, per Bee, J. (A. D. 1798).
Ib. 345, per Hopkinson, J. (A. D. 1785).
** Turnbull v. The Ship Enterprise, Bee, 345, 375 (A. D. 1785).
j-t Gardner v. Ship New Jersey, 1 Peters, Admiralty, 223 (A. D. 1806).

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANX v. DUNHAM.
Argument against the jurisdiction.

affirms the jurisdiction of admiralty over a policy of insurance before or after the Revolution. The only one from
Which jurisdiction in admiralty over insurance may be even
inferred, is Stevens v. Sandwich,* in the District Court of
Mfaryland, which holds that a shipwright may sue in adiniralty, making no distinction between home and foreign
ports. But this decision may be considered as overruled inPeople's Perry Co. of Boston v. Beers el al.t It decides
nothing with reference to insurance.
4. The extension of admiralty jurisdiction is in abridgment
of trial by jury, so carefully guarded by the Constitution.
The encroachments of the admiralty were among the grievances of our revolutionary fathers.4 Is it reasonable, therefore, to suppose, that, after they had achieved their independence, they would have formed a Constitution which
guaranteed the very thing they before complained of?
5. The doctrine of De Lovio v. Bit has never been affirmed
outside the first circuit, but has frequently been questioned
in the Supreme Court of the United States, and by some of
the judges expressly denied. It should also be remarked
that Davis, J., who had a large experience as an admiralty
judge, dismissed the libel in the District Court for want of
jurisdiction, as appears by the record, although this is not
stated in the decision. In .Ramsay v. Allegre,§ Johnson, J.,
in referring to the case, said, that a contrary decision had
been made-in the sixth circuit, and that they must both fall
together, as nisi prius decisions were of no weight in. the
Supreme Court. In Waring v. Clarke,f the question of
jurisdiction came up, and Justices Woodbury and Daniel
dissented in favor of a limited jurisdiction. In Jackson v.
* Gardner v. Ship New Jersey,.1 Peters, Admiralty, 233, note, per 'Win-

chester, J.
t 20 Howard, 393.
$ See address by the Continental Congress, Oct. 21, 1774, to the people of
Great Britain, drawn by John Jay, afterwards Chief Justice of the United
States; also Waringv. Clarke, 5 Howard, 484; Bains v. Schooner James
et al., I Baldwin, 544, 550, 551.
12 W heaton, 614, 6221 638.
56 Howard, 461, 467.
VOL. XL

2

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

Steamboat Magnolia,* Campbell, J., says b~e thinks he speaks
the universal opinion of the legal profession in saying that
the judgment in De Lovio v. Boilt was "erroneous."
So also
in Taylor et al. v. Carryl,t Taney, C. J., in pronouncing his
opinion in regard to admiralty jurisdiction, and referring to
a note in 1 Kent, 371, 372, said:
"I think it is stated too broadly, broader than this court has
sanctioned; for, as regards the jurisdiction in policies of insurance,
1 believe it has never been asserted in any circuit but the first, and
certainly it has never been brought here for adjudication."
And in Cutler v. Bae,: the case is virtually overruled. In
Gloucester Insurance Co. v. YounTger,§ Curtis, J., refers to the
case of Cutler v. Rae, last cited, and says it goes pretty far
towards overruling De Lovio v. Boit; and although he -adhered to the latter case in deciding the case before him, for
special reasons, yet he intimated a doubt whether the doctrine would be sustained in the appellate court.
6. Aside from the authorities, it is submitted, from the
reason of the thing, that a policy of insurance is not a maritime contract. It is an agreement to indemnify the owner of
'the ship, cargo, or freight, against loss by perils of the seas.
The suit is an action for damages for breach of the agreement. There is no lien, and the contract is in no sense
maritime. It begins and ends on land. A maritime contract is where the thing to be done is itself, and in its essence, maritime.
Suppose a policy upon a vessel upon the stocks, or after
she is launched, and while waiting for her equipments or for
.a harbor risk, and the vessel is burnt by negligence or design, would admiralty take jurisdiction? Here is no voyage,
no perils of the sea. The parties are the same, the subjectmatter the same. What is the real distinction between such
a policy and the present one? Is it said that the distinction
is in the fact, that, in one case the vessel is water-borne or
afloat, and in the other not? Suppose a policy upon a cargo
-*20 Howard, 335.

2- lb. 615.

$ 7 lb. 729.

2 Curtis, 8338.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURAFNCE
Reply.

COMPANY v.

DUNHAM.

19

In support of the jurisdiction.

temporarily landed by reason of a disaster to the ship, and,
while on shore, is destroyed by fire, or plundered. In such
a case, the policy still attaches.* But would admiralty take
jurisdiction ?
7. It is not enough that as good a remedy may be afforded

in admiralty as at common law. Such a rule would open
the door of admiralty to suits of every kind, and end in confusion. So long as a master cannot sue for his wages in
admiralty;t nor part owners, for matters of account between
them ;t nor a mortgagee, to enforce payment of his mortgage;§ nor a shipbuilder, for building a ship ;II nor materialmen who furnish supplies, for a vessel in a home port; nor
any owner, for contribution by way of general average,**it is not easy to see how, or on what principle, a policy of
insurance can be regarded as within the limits of admiralty
jurisdiction. It is against law, precedent, and reason.
If these libels are dismissed, no harm comes to the plaintiff; for he is only sent to other tribunals of admitted jurisdiction.
Reply: The decisions in Bee's Reports of an early date, to
the effect that the admiralty courts have no jurisdiction over
matters suable at common law, and a few more foiind elsewhere, are entitled to no consideration now, and it would be
a waste of time to examine them in detail. They are opposed
to the decisions of this court. The jurisdiction exercised
by the colonial courts of-admiralty before the Revolution,
was, as has been shown, liberal and comprehensive, and gives
no support to the construction for which the respondents
contend. If the existence and contents of the records lately
found had been earlier known, the courts would have beeii
saved the necessity of considering arguments against the
admiralty jurisdiction, based on the practical jurisdiction
* Bryant v. Com. Ins. Co., 13 Pickering, 543, 558.

t 11 Peters, 175.
$ Ib.
11People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 Id. 393.
Pratt v. Reed, 19 Id. 359.

17 Howard, 399.
* Cutler v. Rae, 7 Id. 729.

20

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.
Reply.

[Sup. Ct.

In support of the jurisdiction.

exercised in England and in the colonies, and much litigation have been prevented.
Again, it is urged that the extension of admiralty jurisdiction was one of the grievances which led to the Revolution,
and therefore it is not reasonable to suppose that the framers
of the Constitution would have perpetuated the very evil of
which they complained. But it is matter of history that the
extension complained of related exclusively to revenue and
crimitial cases, that the evil was the taking away of trial by
jury in cases where it previously existed. The civil jurisdiction was exercised under the King's commission, always,
without a jury. It never was matter of legislation or of
complaint, nor extended by statute.
It is said that a cargo insured might be destroyed while
ashore; and it is asked if the Admiralty Court would then
exercise jurisdiction. The answer is, that undoubtedly it
would, if insurance is a maritime contract. The accident of
the loss happening on land, does not alter the nature of the
contract, if the cargo is covered by the policy.
It is said that the doctrine of De Lovio v. Boil is unsound,
has not been approved of by the profession generally, and
that it has been overruled by this court. It may be admitted that it has been sometimes questioned and sometimes
denied by individual justices of this court, but never by the
court or a majority of it. It has not been approved of by
Daniels, Baldwin, Campbell, or Woodbury, Justices; but it
may be said to have had the support of Marshall, Chief Justice, and Washiigton, Wayne, McLean, Justices, not to
mention others now living; and the principles on which it
is founded have been repeatedly affirmed in the decisions
of this court sustaining jurisdiction over charter-parties,
averages, and other maritime cases.
It is insisted that the case is virtually overruled by the decision in Cutler v. Rae. But we now know that Cutler v. Rae
was not thoroughly considered; that the printed argument in
favor of the jurisdiction was not before all of the court, and
was not alluded to in conference; that the decision was
made by a divided court, Catron, J., not giving an opinion,

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANTCE ComPANY v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the court.

because he was "not satisfied either way," "that the remaining eight judges were at first equally divided, and that
it was finally disposed of rather from acquiescence in what
was thought to be English authority against the jurisdiction,
than from a close and searching scrutiny into the practice

and jurisdiction of courts of admiralty."*
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case .comes before us on a certificate of division in
opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts on appeal from the District Court of
that district. When this division of opinion occurred the
Circuit 0ourt was being held by the associate justice of this
court allotted to the first circuit and the circuit jidge of
that circuit, sitting together. It becomes necessary, therefore, in the first place, to decide whether a difference of
opinion between these judges sitting in the Circuit Court
may be certified to this court under the act of April 29,
1802. The language of the act is broad enough to include
the case. It is as follows: "Whenever any question shall
occur before a Circuit Court, upon which the opinions of
the judges shall be opposed, the point upon which the disagreement shall happen shall, during the same term, upon
the request of either party or their counsel, be stated under
the direction of the judges, and certified under the seal of
the court, to the Supreme Court, at their next session to be
held thereafter, and shall by the said court be finally decided." But it has been suggested that, although the case
is included in the terms of the act, it is not within its meaning, because the constitution of the circuit has been changed
by the recent act creating circuit judges, passed April 10,
1869. There is nothing in this act which alters the powers
of the court, or'obviates the difficulty which a certificate of
division was intended to meet. That difficulty arose from
* See the statement by Wayne, J., in the Appendix to 8 Howard; also
Dike v. The St. Joseph, 6 McLean, 573; Taylor v. Carry], 20 Howard, 583.

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the fact that the court was constituted of two judges, between
whom a difference of opinion would be likely often to occur,
and thus block the wheels of justice. Other things being
equal, a division of opinion is far more probable between
two persons than is an equal division between any other even
number of persons. This renders it desirable, when a court
consists of the former number, to have some method provided for overcoming the intrinsic difficulty. Such a method
was provided by the act of 1802 to meet the then constitution of the court, which consisted of a justice of the Supreme Court and the district judge. The act of 1869 has
created a new circuit judge, it is true, but he is invested
with precisely the same power and jurisdiction in his circuit
as the justice of the Supreme Court has therein, whilst the
powers of the latter, as judge of'the circuit, are the same as
before, and the court is to be held either by one of them or
the district judge, or any two of the three. Thus the same
necessity exists as before for the power to certify questions
to the Supreme.Court. As the mischief remains the same,
and the terms of the act of 1802 are general and adequate to
continue the remedy, such a construction of it as will have
that effect seems to be fairly warranted.*
We, therefore, conclude that the case is properly brought
before us by certificate.
The case, as thus brought beforeus, presents the question,
whether the District Court for the District of AMassachusetts,
sitting in admiralty, has jurisdiction to entertain a libel in
personam on a policy of marine insurance to recover for a
loss.
This precise question has never been decided by this
court. But, in our view, several decisions have been made
which determine the principle on which the case depends.
The general jurisdiction of the District Courts in admiralty
and maritime cases has been heretofore so fully discussed
that it is only necessary to refer to them very briefly on this
occasion.
• See Ex parte Zellner, 9 Wallace, 244.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

v. DUNHAM.

Opinion of the court.

The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend "to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction," without defining the limits of that
jurisdiction. Congress, by the Judiciary Act passed at its
first session, 24th of September, 1789, established the District Courts, and conferred upon them, among other things,

"exclusive original cognizance of all civil cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction."
As far as regards civil cases, therefore, the jurisdiction of
these courts was thus made coextensive with the constitutional gift of judicial power on this subject.
Much controversy has arisen with regard to the extent of
this jurisdiction. It is well known that in England great
jealousy of the admiralty was long exhibited by the courts
of common law.
The admiralty courts were. originally established in that
and other maritime countries of Europe for the protection
of commerce and the administration of that venerable law
of the sea which reaches back to sources long anterior even
to those of the civil law itself; which Lord Mansfield says is
not the law of any particular country, but the general law
of nations; and which is founded on the broadest principles
of equity and justice, deriving, however, much of its completeness and symmetry, as well as its modes of proceeding,
from the civil law, and embracing, altogether, a system of
regulations embodied and matured by the combined effirts
of the most enlightened commercial nations of the world.
Its system of procedure has been established for ages, and
is essentially founded, as we have said, on the civil law;
and this is probably one reason why so much hostility was
exhibited against the admiralty by the courts of common
law, and why its jurisdiction was so much more crippled
and restricted in England than in any other state. In all
other countries bordering on the Mediterraneau or the Atlantic the marine courts, whether under the name of admiralty courts or otherwise, are generally invested with jurisdiction of all matters arising in marine commerce, as well
as other marine matters of public concern, such as crimes

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

committed on the sea, captures, and even naval affairs. But
in England, partly under strained constructions of parliamentary enactments and partly from assumptions of public
policy, the common law courts succeeded in establishing the
general rule that the jurisdiction of the admiralty was confined to the high seas and entirely excluded from transactions arising on waters within the body of a county, such as
rivers, inlets, and arms of the sea as far out as the naked
eye could discern objects from shore to shore, as well as
from transactions arising on the land, though relating to
marine affairs.
With respect to contracts, this criterion of locality was
carried so far that, with the exception of the cases of seamen's wages and bottomry bonds, no contract was allowed
to be prosecuted in the Admiralty unless it was made upon
the sea, and was to be executed upon the sea; and even
then it must not be under seal.
Of course, under such a construction of the admiralty
jurisdiction, a policy of insurance executed on land would
be excluded from it.
But this narrow view has not prevailed here. This court
has frequently declared and decided that the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the United States is not limited
either by the restraining statutes or the judicial prohibitions
of England, but is to be interpreted by a more enlarged
view of its essential nature and objects, and with reference
to analogous jurisdictions in other countries constituting the
maritime commercial world, as well as to that of England.
"Its. bounda'y," says Chief Justice Taney,* "is to be ascertained by a reasonable and just construction of the words
used in the Constitution, taken in connection with the whole
instrument, and the purposes for which admiralty and maritime jurisdiction was granted to the Federal government."
" Courts of- admiralty," says the same judge in another
case,t "have been found necessary in all commercial coun* The Steamer St. Lawrence, I Black, 527.
t The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 454.

Dec. 1870.] INSfJRANCE COMPANY V. DuNHAM.

25

Opinion of the court.

tries, not only for the safety and convenience of commerce,
and the speedy decision of controversies where delay would
often be ruin, but also to administer the laws of nations in
a season of war, and to determine the validity of captures
and questions of prize or no prize in a judicial proceeding.
And it would be contrary to the first principles on which
'the Union was formed to confine these rights to the States
bordering on the Atlantic, and to the tide-water rivers connected with it, and to deny them to the citizens who border
on the lakes and the great navigable streams which flow
through the Western States."
In accordance with this more enlarged view of the subject, several results have been arrived at widely differing
from the long-established rules of the English courts.
First, as to the locus or territory of maritime jurisdiction;
that is, the place or territory where the law maritime prevails, where torts must be committed, and where business
must be transacted, in order to be maritime in their character; a long train of decisions has settled that it extends not
only to the main sea, but to all the navigable waters of the
United States, or bordering on the sam6, whether landlocked or open, salt or fresh, tide or no tide. "Are we
bound to say,"-says Justice Wayne, delivering the opinion
of the court in Waring v. Clarke,*-." Are we bound to say,
because it has been so said by the common law courts of
England in reference to the point under discussion, that sea
always means high sea or main sea ?

. . .

Is there not a surer

foundation for a correct ascertainment of the locality of marine jurisdiction in the general admiralty law than the designation of it by the common law courts? . . . We think, in

the controversy between the courts of admiralty and common law upon the subject of jurisdiction, that the former
have the best of the argument; that they maintain the jurisdiction for which they contend with more learning, more
directness of purpose, and without any of that verbal subtilty which is found in the arguments of their adversaries."
* 5 Howard, 462.

26

INSURANCE COMPANY v. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It was a long time, however, before the full extent of the
admiralty jurisdiction was firmly established. The Judiciary
Act expressly extended it to seizures, under laws of impost,
navigation, or trade of the United States, where made on
waters navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons
burden as well as upon the high seas, thus at once ignoring
the English rule; but for some time it was held that the
jurisdiction could .not go further, and that this grant was
confined to tide-waters. But in the case of The Genesee
Chief,* decided in 1851, it was expressly adjudged that tide
was no criterion of admiralty jurisdictioh in this country;
that it extended to our great internal lakes and navigable
rivers as well as to tide-waters. "It is evident," says Chief
Justice Taney,t "that a definition which would at this day
limit public rivers in this country to tide-water rivers is utterly inadmissible. We have thousands of miles of public
navigable water, including lakes and rivers, in which.there
is no.tide. And certainly there can be no reason for admiralty power over a public tide-water which does not apply
with equal force to any other public -water used for commercial purppses and foreign trade. The lakes and the
waters connecting them are undoubtedly public waters, and,
we think, are within the grant of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction in the Constitution of the United States." This
judgment has been followed by several eases since decided,
and the point must be considered as no longer open for discussion in this court.
Secondly, as to contracts, it has been equally well settled
that the English rule which concedes jurisdiction, with a
few exceptions, only to contracts made upon the sea and to
be executed thereon (making locality the test) is entirely inadmissible, and that the true criterion is the nature and
subject-matter of the contract, as whether it was a maritime
contract, having reference to maritime service or maritime
transactions. Even in England the courts felt compelled to
rely on this criterion in order to sustain the admiralty juris*12 Howard, 443.

t Id. 457.

Dec. 1870.] INSURANCE COMPANY v.

27

DUNHAM.

Opinion of the court.

diction over bottomry bonds, although it involved an inconsistency with their rules in almost every other case. In
Menetone v. Gibbons,* Lord Kenyon makes this sensible remark: "If the admiralty has jurisdiction over the subjectmatter, to say that it is necessary for the parties to go upon
the sea to execute the instrument, borders upon absurdity."
In that case there happened to be a seal on the bond, of
*hich a strong point was made. Justice Buller answered
it thus: "The form of the bottomry bond does not vary the
jurisdiction; the question whether the court of admiralty
has or has not jurisdiction depends on the subject-matter."
Had thes views actuated the common law courts at an
earlier day it would have led to a much sounder rule as to
the limits of admiralty jurisdiction than was adopted. In
this court, in the case of The .NewJersey Navigation Company
v. Merchants' Bank,t which was a libel in personam against
the company on a contract of affreightment to recover for
the loss of specie by the burning of the steamer Lexington
on Long Island Sound, Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion
of the court, says : T "If the cause is a maritime cause, subj&ct to admiralty. cognizance, jurisdiction is complete over
the person as well as over the ship. .

.

. On looking into

the several cases in admiralty which have come before this
court, and in which its jurisdiction was involved, it will be
found that the inquiry has been, not into the jurisdiction of
the court of admiralty in England, but into the nature and
subject-matter of the contract, whether it was a maritime
contract, and the service a maritime service, to be performed
upon the sea or upon waters within the ebb and flow of the
tide." [The last distinction based on tide, as we have seen,
has since been abrogated.] Jurisdiction in that case was
sustained by this court, as it had previously been in cases
of suits by ship-carpenters and material-men on contracts
for repairs, materials, and supplies, and by pilots for pilotage: in none of which would it have .been allowed to the
admiralty courts inEngland.§ In the subsequent case of
8 Term, 269.
j- 6 Howard, 844.
See cases cited by Justice Nelson, 6 Howard, 890, 891.

$ lb. 392.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Morewood v. Enequist,* decided in 1859, which was a case of
charter-party and affHreightment, Justice Grier, who had dissented in the case of The Lexington, but who seems to
have changed his views on the whole subject, delivered the
opinion of the court, and, amongst other things, said:
"Counsel have expended much learning and ingehuity in
an attempt to demonstrate that a court of admiralty in this
country, like those of England, has no jurisdiction ovef contracts of charter-party or affreightment. They do not seem
to deny that these are maritime contracts, according to any
correct.definition of the terms, but rather require us to
abandon our whole course of decision on this subject and
return to the fluctuating decisions of English commodi law
judges, which, it has been truly said, 'are founded on no
uniform principle, and exhibit illiberal jealousy and narrow
prejudice.' " He adds that the court did not feel disposed
to be again drawn into the discussion; that the subject had
been thoroughly investigated in the case of The Lexington,
and that they had then decided "that charter-parties and
contracts of affreighthient were ' maritime contracts,' within
the true meaning and construction of the Constitution and
act of Congress, and cognizable in courts of admiralty by
process either in rem or in personam." The case of The
People's Ferry Co. v. Beers,t being pressed upon the court,
in which it had been adjudged that a contract for building
a vessel was not within the admiralty jurisdiction, being a
contract made on land and to be performed on land, Justice
Grier remarked.: "The court decided in that case that a
contract to build a ship is not a maritime contract;" but he
intimated that the opinion in that case must be construed in
connection with the precise question before the court; in
other words, that the effect of that decision was not to be
extended by implication to other cases.
In the case of The Moses Taylor,t it was decided that a
contract t6 carry passengers by sea as well as a contract to
carry goods, was a maritime contract and cognizable in ad* 23 Howard, 493.

t 20 Ib. 401.

$ 4 "Wallace, 411.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

29

Opinion of the court.

miralty, although a small part of the transportation was by
laud, the principal portion being by water. In a late case
of affreightment, that of The .Befast,*it was contended that
admiralty jurisdiction did not attach, because the goods were
to be transported only from one port to another in the same
State, and were not the subject of interstate commerce.
But as the transportation was on a navigable river, the court
decided in favor of the jurisdiction, because it was a maritime transaction. Justice Clifford, delivering the opinion
of the court, says: t "Contracts, claims, or service, purely
maritime, and touching rights and duties appertaining to
commerce and navigation, are cognizable in the admiralty
coufts. Torts or injuries committed on navigable waters,
of a civil nature, are also cognizable in the admiralty
courts. Jurisdiction in the former case depends upon the
nature of the contract, but in the latter it depends entirely
upon the locality."
It thus appears that in each case the decision of the court
and the reasoning on which it was founded have been based
upon the fundamental inquiry whether the contract was or
was not a marithne contraet. If it was, the jurisdiction was
asserted; if it was not, the jurisdiction was denied. And
whether maritime or not maritime depended, not on the
place where the contract was made, but on the subject-matter
of the contract. If that was maritime the contract was
maritime. This may be regarded as the established doctrine
of the court.
The subject could be very copiously illustrated by reference to the decisions of the various District antd Circuit
Courts. But it is unnecessary. The authoritative decisions
of this court have settled the general rule, and all that
remains to be done is to apply the law to each case as it
arises.
It only remains, then, to inquire whether the contract of
marine insurance, as set forth in the present case, is or is
not a maritime contract.
*7 Wallace, 624.

t 7 Ib. 687.

INSURANCE

COMPANY v. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is objected that it is not a maritime contract because it is
made on the land and is to be performed (by payment of the
loss) on the land, and is, therefore, entirely a common law
transaction. This objection would equally apply to bottomry
and respondentia loans, which are also usually made on the
land and are to be paid on the land. But in both cases payment is made to depend on a maritime risk; in the one case
upon the loss of the ship or goods, and in the other upon
their safe arrival at their destination. So the contract of
affreightnient is also made on land, and is to be performed
on the land by the delivery of the goods and payment of the
freight. It is true that in the latter case a maritime service
is to be performed in the transportation of the goods. But
if we carefully analyze the contract of insurance we shall
find that, in effect, it is a contract, or guaranty, on the part
of the insurer, that the ship or goods shall pass safely over
the sea, and through its storms and its many casualties, to
the port of its destination; and if they do not pass safely,
but meet with disaster from any of the misadventures insured against, the insurer will pay the loss sustained. So
in the contract of affreightment, the master guarantees that
the goods shall be sgfely transported (dangers of the seas
excepted) from the port of shipment to the port of delivery,
and there delivered. The contract of the, one guarantees
against loss from the dangers of the sea, the contract of the
other against loss from all other dangers. Of course these
contracts do not always run precisely parallel to each other,
as now stated; special terms are inserted in each at the option of the parties. But this statement shows the general
nature of the two contracts. And how a fair mind can discern any substantial distinction between them on the question whether they are or are not, maritime contracts, is
difficult to imagine. The object 'of the two contracts is, in
the one case, maritime service, and in the other maritime
casualties.
And then the contract of insurance, and the rights of the
parties arising therefrom, are affected by and mixed up with
all the questions that can arise in maritime commerce,-jet-

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

81

Opinion of the court.

tison, abandonment, average, salvage, capture, prize, bottom ry, &o.
Perhaps the best criterion of the maritime character of a
contract is the system of law from which it arises and by
which it is governed. And it is well known that the contract of insurance sprang from the law maritime, and derives
all its materi l rules and incidents therefrom. It was unknown to the common law; and the common law remedies,
when applied to it, were so inadequate and clumsy that disputes arising out of the contract *ere generally left to arbitration, until the year A.D. 1601, when the statute of 48
Elizabeth was passed creating a special court, or commission,

for hearing and determining causes arising on policies of
insurance. The preamble to that act, after mentioning the
great benefit arising to commerce by the use of policies of
insurance, has this singular statement: "And whereas,
heretofore such assurers have used to stand so justly and
precisely upon their credits as few or no controversies have
arisen thereupon, and if any have grown the same have,
from time to time, been ended and ordered by certain grave
and discreet merchants appointed by the lord mayor of the
city of London, as men, by reason of their experience, fittest
to understand and speedily to decide those causes, until of
late years that divers persons have withdrawn themselves
from that arbitrary course, and have sought to draw the
parties assured to seek their moneys of every several assurer
by.suits commenced in her majesty's courts, to their great
charges and delays." The commission created by this act
-was to be directed to the judge of the admiralty for the time
being, the recorder of London, two doctors of the civil law,
and two common lawyers, and eight grave and discreet
merchants. The act was thus an acknowledgment of the
jurisdiction to which the case properly belonged. Had it
not been for the jealousy exhibited by the common law
courts against the court of admiralty, in prohibiting its cognizance of policies of insurance half a century before,* the
* 4 Institutes, 189.

INSURANCE

COMPANY

V.

DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

latter court, as the natural and proper tribunal for determining all maritime causes, would have furnished a remedy
at once easy, expeditious, and adequate. It was only after
the common law, under the influence of Lord Mansfield and
other judges of.enlightened views, had imported into itself
the various provisions of the law maritime r'elatiug to insurauce, that the courts at Westminster Hall began to furnish
satisfactory relief to suitors. And even then, as remarked
by Sir W. D. Evans, "th inadequacy of the existing law to
settle, Tprorio vigore, complicated questions of average and
contribution, is very manifest and notorious. Such ques..
tions are, by consent, as matter of course, and from conviction of counsel that justice cannot be attained in any other
way, referred to private examination; but a law can hardly
be considered as perfect which is not possessed of adequate
powers within, itself to complete its purpose, and which requires the extrinsic aid of personal consent."* The contrivances to which Lord Mansfield resorted to remedy in a
measure these difficulties are stated by. Mr. Justice Parke in
the introduction to his work on insurance.
These facts go to show, demonstrably, that the contract
of marine insurance is an exotic in the common law. And
we know the fact, historically, that its first appearance in
any code or system of laws was in the law maritime as promulgated by the various maritime states and cities of Europe.
It undoubtedly grew out of the doctrine of contribution and
general average, which is found in the maritime laws of the
ancient. Rhodians. By this law, if either ship, freight, or
cargo was sacrificed to save the others, all had to contribute'
their proportionate share of the loss. This division of loss
naturally suggested . previsional division of risk; first,
amon gst those engaged in the same enterprise; and, next,
amongst associations of ship-owners and shipping merchants.
Hence it is found that the earliest form of the contract of
insurance was that of mutual insurance, which, according
to Pardessus, dates back to the tenth century, if not earlier,
* Evans's Statutes, vol. ii, p. 226, 8d ed.

Dec. 1870.]

INSuRANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

33

Opinion of the court.

and in Italy and Portugal was made obligatory. By a regulation of the latter kingdom, made in the fourteenth century, every ship-owner and merchant in Lisbon and Oporto
was bound to contribute two per cent. of the profits of each
voyage to a common fund from which to pay losses whenever they should occur.* The next step in the system was
that of insurance upon premium. Capitalists, familiar with
the risks of navigation, were found willing to guaranty
.against them for a small consideration or premium paid.
This, the final. form of the contract, was in use as early as
the beginning of the fourteenth century,t and the tradition
is, that it was introduced into England in that century by
the Lombard merchants who settled in London and brought
with them the maritime usages of Venice and other Italian
cities. Express regulations respecting the contract, however, do not appear in any code or compilation of laws
earlier than the commencement of the fifteenth century.
The earliest which Pardessus was able to find were those
contained in the Ordinances of Barcelona, A.D. 1435; of
Veiiice, A.D. 1468; of Florence, A. D. 1528; of Antwerp,
A. D. 1537, &c.1 Distinct traces of earlier regulations are
found, but the ordinances themselves are not extant. In
the more elaborate monuments of maritime law which appeared in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the contract of insurance occupies a large space. The Guidon de la
Mcr, which appeared at Rouen at the close of the sixteenth
century, was an elaborate treatise on the subject; but, in. its
discussion, the principles of every other maritime contract
were explained. In the celebrated marine ordinance of
Louis XIV, issued in 1681, it forms the subject of one of
the principal titles.§ As is well known, it has always formed
a part of the Scotch maritime law.
Suffice it to say, that in every maritime code of Europe,
unless England is excepted, marine insurance constitutes
one of the principal heads. It is treated in nearly every
2 Fardessrs, Lois .3datritimes, 369; 6 Id. 803.
t Id. vol. 2, pp. 369, 370; vol. 4, p. 566; vol. 5, pp. 331, 493.
1 Id. vol. 5, pp. 493, 65 ; vol. 4, pp. 598 37.
Lib. 8, title 6.
VOL. XI.

8

34

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

one of those collected by Pardessus, except the more ancient
ones, which were compiled before the contract had assumed
its place in written law. It is, in fact, a part of the general
maritime law of the world; slightly modified, it is true, in
each country, according to the circumstances or genius of
the people. Can stronger proof be presented that the contract is a maritime contract?
But an additional argument is found in the fact that in all
other countries, except England, even in Scotland, suits and
controversies arising upon the contract of marine insurance
are within the jurisdiction of the admiralty or other marine
courts.* The French Ordinance of 1681 touching the Marine, in enumerating the cases subject to the jurisdiction of
the judges of admiralty, expressly mentions those arising
upon policies of assurance, and concludes with this broad
language: "And generally all contracts concerning the
commerce of the sea."t The Italian writer, Rloccus, says:
"These subjects of insurance and disputes relative to ships
are to be decided according to maritime law, and the usages
and customs of the sea are to be respected. The proceedings are to be according to the forms of maritime courts and
the rules and principles laid down in the book called ' The
Consulate of the Sea,' printed at Barcelona in the year

1592."1
It is also clear that, originally, the English admiralty had
jurisdiction of this as well as of other maritime contracts.
It is expressly included in the commissions of the Admiral.§
Dr. Browne says: "The cognizance of policies of insurance
was of old claimed by the Court of Admiralty, in which
they had the great advantage attending all their proceedings as to the examination of witnesses beyond the seas or
speedily going out of the kingdom."I But the intolerance
of the common la-w courts prohibited the exercise of it. In
the early case of Crane v. Bell, 38 Hen. VIII, A. D. 1546, a
* See Benedict's Admiralty, § 294, ed. 1870.

: Roccus on Insurance, note 80.
II 2 Browne's Civil and Admiralty Law, 82.

t Sea Laws, 256.
Benedict, 48.

Dec. 1870.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. DUNHAM.

35

Opinion of the court.

prohibition was granted for this -purpose.* Mr. Browne

says, very pertinently: "What is the rationale, and what the
true principle which ought to govern this question, viz.:
What contracts should be cognizable in admiralty? Is it
not this? All contracts which relate purely to maritime
affairs, the natural, short, and easy method oT enforcing
which is found in the admiralty proceedings."t
Another consideration bearing directly on this question is
the fact that the commissions in admiralty issued to our
colonial governors and admiralty judges, prior to the Revolution, which may be fairly supposed to have been in the
minds of the Convention which framed the Constitution,
contained either express jurisdiction over policies of insurance or such general jurisdiction over maritime contracts as
to embrace them.t
The discussions that have taken place in the District and
Circuit Courts of the United States have not been adverted

to. Many of them are characterized by much learning and
research. The learned and exhaustive opinion of Justice
Story, in the case of De Lovio v..Boit,§ affirming the admiralty
jurisdiction over policies of marine insurance, has never been
answered, and will always stand as a monument of his great
erudition. That case was decided in 1815. It has been followed in several other cases in the first circuit.]] In 1842
Justice Story, in reaffirming his first judgment, says that he
bad reason to believe that Chief Justice Marshall and Justice Washington were prepared to maintain the jurisdiction.
What the opinion of the other judges was he did not know.
Doubts as to the jurisdiction have occasionally been expressed by other judges. But we are of opinion that the
conclusion of Justice Story was correct.
The answer of the court, therefore, to the question propounded by the Circuit Court will be,that the District Court
* See-4 Institutes, 139.

j 2 Civil and Admiralty Law, 88.

2 Gallis6n, 398.
:Benedict, chap. ix.
Gloucester Insurance Co. v. Younger, 2 Curtis, 832-333.
Hale v. Washingtun Insurance Co., 2 Story 183.

PARMELEE V. LAWRENCE.

[Sup. Ct..

Statement of the case.

for the District of Massachusetts, sitting in admiralty,
JURISDICTION to entertain the libel in this case.

HAS

ANSWER ACCORDINGLY.

PARMELEE V. LAWRENCE.
1. To authorize the re-examination of a question brought here as within the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, the conflict of the State law with the
Constitution of the United States, and a decision by a State court in
favor of its validity, must appear on the face of the record. And the
question must have been necessarily involved in the decision, so that
the State court- could not have given a judgment without deciding it.
(Railroad Company v. Rock, 4 Wallace, 177, affirmed.)
Accordingly, where no question of such conflict was made in the pleadings, nor in the evidence, nor at the hearing in the court where the
suit was brought; and the question was first made in the Supreme Court
where the certificate of the presiding judge showed only that it was
taken in argument and overruled, the writ was dismissed.
2. The office of the certificate from the Supreme Court, as it respects the
Federal question, is to make more certain and specific what is too
general and indefinite in the record, but it is incompetent to originate
the question within the true construction of the 25th sectiun.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Illinois, brought here on the assumption that the case
was shown to be within the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act; the idea of the plaintiff in error having been that a
statute of the State of Illinois, on the subject of interest, was
brought in question in this suit, and was upheld by the

court below, though repugnant to the Constitution of the

United States, as impairing the obligation of contracts.
It appeared by the record that Parmelee & Co. filed their
bill in chancery, in the Superior Court of Chicago, against
one Lawrence, in which they sought to enforce the specific
performance of what they alleged to be a contract, by Lawrence, to convey to them certain lots in Chicago for the conisideration of $50,000, and interest at 10 per cent., free and
clear of incumbrance. The bill set forth that they were

