Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.
Statement of the case.

ceeding to reverse the judgment, these irregularities are
grounds of error.
Foil, these reasons, in my opinion, the decree in this case
should be reversed.

TYLER v. DEFREES.
1. The Congress of the United States, to which is intrusted all the great
powers essential to a perpetual union, to wit: the power to make war, to
suppress insurrection, to levy taxes, to make rules concerning captures
on land and sea, is not deprived of those powers when the necessity for
their exercise is called out by domestic insurrection and internal civil
war.
2. The proceedings of the courts in the execution of laws made to suppress
such civil rebellion, when brought before this 6ourt on review, should
not be subjected to so strict a construction as to defeat the execution of
the laws and render them a nullity.
3. The doctrine of the case of Miller v. United States (supra, 268), affirmed
and held to govern the present case.
4. When under the act of July 17th, 1862, property intended for confiscation
hs been seized by the marshal, and the seizure is briought before the
court by the filing of a libel for the forfeiture of the property, and is
recognized and adopted by it, the property is subject to the control of
the court in the hands of its officer; and it has jurisdiction of the case
so far as it seizure of the rcs is essential to give it.
5. This is especially so of real estate lying within the territorial jurisdiction
of the court, and which being incapable of removal will always be found
to answer the orders and decrees of the court in the progress of the cause.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action of ejectment to recover certain real
property in the city of Washington. The defendant pleaded
title friom a purchaser at a sale of the property under a j udicial decree, made in proceedings instituted under the Confiscation Act of July 17tb, 1862. It was conceded that the
plaintiff had a good title to the premises, unless that title
had beeu divested by the sale under that decree. The issue
involved was, therefore, the validity of the decree.
The provisions of the confiscation act just referred to,
along with some facts in connection with it, are set out fully
ERROR

TYLER V. DEFREES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

in the report of Miller v. United States (the leading one of the
confiscation cases), immediately preceding this one; and to
the part of the report of that case beginning on page 269,
with the words (prefixed by an ) The act qf July 17th, 1862,
containsfourteen sections," to the words (prefixed by a t) " On
the 24th November, 1863," oil page 274, the reader must now
please to turn. He will find there what but to avoid mere
repetition would be given here; and that which makes a
necessary part of the statement of the present case. After
reading it, he may resume his reading here.
The facts of the present case were found by special verdict. It appeared that in June, 1863, the marshal of the
District of Columbia, in pursuance of an order addressed to
him by the district attorney of the United States, stating
that proceedings were to be instituted for the condemnation
of the same to the use of the United States, seized the property in question. His return stated that he had made seizure
of the property and given notice to the tenants in possession,
as directed, and accompanied his return with a copy of the
notice served on the tenants, which stated that the property
seized was "held subject to the order of the United States
District Court, and the district attorney."
Shortly after this return the district attorney filed a libel
of information for the forfeiture of the property, alleging
against Tyler that since the 17th of July, 1862, lie had held
and exercised an office and agency, of honor, trust, and
profit, under the Confederate government, and that he had
given aid and comfort to the rebellion, and to those engaged
in it, by acting as a soldier and as a non-commissioned officer in the army and navy of the Confederate States, and by
contributing money and property to aid and encourage those
engaged in the rebellion.
Upon this libel beingfiled, an order was made, that process
issue, and that notice be given to the owner or owners of the
property, and to all persons interested or claiming interest
therein, to appear and answer the information on the first
Monday of August then next (1863), and show cause, if any
they had, why the property should not be condemned and

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER v. DEPREES.

Argument against the confiscation.

sold; and that notice be given by posting a copy of the order
upon the door of the court-house, and by publication in the
National Republican, a newspaper of the District.
A monition was accordingly issued, commanding the marshal to attach the property, and to detain the same in his
custody until the further order of the court, and to give
notice to all persons baving or claiming any interest in the
property to show cause as above stated. This process was
never served by the marshal, and the only return which he
made to it was a certificate that he had made the publication of notice in the designated paper.
On the 29th of July, 1863, and not on the first Monday
of August, which latter day was specified as the day for the
claimants and others to appear and show cause against the
condemnation of the property, the court, without evidence
being taken in the case, upon the papers and pleadings filed,
entered a decree that the 'property be forfeited and condemned to the United States.
Upon this decree process issued to the marshal, to sell
-the property, and under the said process the property was
sold, and purchased by a person through whom the defendant claimed.
Upon the facts found by the jury, the court ordered judgment in favor of the defendant. From this judgment, the
case was brought to this court on writ of error.
Messrs. Brent and Merrick, for the plaintiffin error:
I. The title of the plaintiff was not divested by the mere act
of seizure made by the marshal. The act of Oongress contemplates and directs the institution of judicial proceedings
to accompli i a divestiture. The proceedings are indeed assinilated to proceedings in admiralty; but judicialproceedings of some kind are absolutely necessary in order to divest
the title of the owner. Now, therefore, assuming that judicial proceedings were essentially necessary, the regularity
of the proceedings in each particular instance becomes legitimate matter of inquiry, though in a collateral issue, like the
present, we are restricted to the question of jurisdiction.

TYLER v. DcEFREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the confiscation.

The act requires that "the proceedings should conform as
nearly as possible to proceedings in admiralty and revenue
cases."
The general jurisdiction in admiralty and revenue cases
is regulated by the Judiciary Act of September 24th, 1789.
Various decisions, in which this act has received a judicial
construction, show that the seizure ascertains and determines
the forum wherein judicial proceedings were to be instituted,
but does not of itself subject the property to the judgment
of the court.*
After the forum is ascertained, what is to be done? The
act of Congress of March 2d, 1799,t provides that "all
goods, &c., &c., seized by virtue of this act, shall be put into
and remain in the custody of the collector, or such other
person as he shall appoint for that purpose, until such proceedings shall be had as by this act are required to ascertain whether' the same have been forfeited or not." And
the same actl goes on to provide that "the collector within
whose district the seizure shall be made, or the forfeiture
incurred, is hereby enjoined to cause suits for the same to
be commenced without delay, and prosecuted to effect, &c.,
&c., &c."

These sections contemplate a second seizure of the property by the marshal as an officer of the court. The act provides that the collector shall retain it only until the institution
of proceedingsin court. As soon as these proceedings are instituted, the marshal, in virtue of the process and monition
of the court, must take it out of the hands of the collector
and into his own custody. For "as soon as the marshal
seizes the same goods under the proper process of the court,
the marshal is entitled to the sole and exclusive custody
thereof, subject to the future orders of the court."ยง
The admiralty rules have been framed under this view
of the law. Rule twenty-two requires that "all informations
* See The Little Ann, I Paine, 41; The Washington, 4 Blatchford, 102;
Keene v. The United States, 5 Oranch, 304; The Brig Ann, 9 Id. 289, 291.
t
69; 1 Stat. at Large, p. 678.
+ 89.
Ex parte Hoyt, 13 Peters, 290.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V.

DEFREES.

Argument against the confiscation.

and libels of information, upon seizure, &c., shall conclude

with a prayer of due process, &c." And rule nine prescribes, that "in all cases of seizure, and in other suits and
proceedings in rem, the process, unless otherwise provided
for by statute, shall be by a warrant of arrest of the ships,
goods, or other things to be arrested; and the marshal thereupon shall arrest and take the ships, goods, or other things,
into his possession, &c."
What need of a warrant of arrest, if the property was
already in the custody of the court and subject to its judgment? The office of the process was to bring it into the
court. The duty of the marslhal in executing the process
"is to arrest the property seized by taldng it into his custody;"
and his return is to be, that he has arrested the thing, and
cited all persons interested, &c., &c., as he was by the warrant ordered to do. Then, and not till then, the jurisdiction
of the court attaches.
A court acquires jurisdiction only by either one of two
modes: 1. As against the person, by service of process.
2. hli rem, by arresting the thing under the order or writ of
the court.*
Iii a proceeding either in personam or in rem, the process
must be the process of the court. Now the seizure made
here by the order of the district attorney was simply an
executive act, not a judicial notice. The marshal, in making
that seizure, acted as the agent of the district attorney, or
of the executive branch of the government, not as the officer
of the court. In a suit by the United States, could a court
obtain jurisdiction in personam by an executive mandate,
without any process from the court directing the defendant
to appear ?
Again, the object of process, either in personam or in re;n,
is to give notice of a pending case. Did this seizure, under
the act of July 17th, 1862, give such notice? The President may seize for the purpose of using, and if he chooses he
may take proceedings to condemn. Under the revenue acts,
* The Propeller Commerce, 1 Black, 580, 581.

[Sup. Ct.

TYLER V. DEFREES.
Argument against the confiscation.

the person making the seizure is required to procced at once.
Under this act the President may never proceed.
The evidence of seizure is the marshal's return-a jurisdictional fact which must appear in the record. But conceding that the fact of seizure by the officer of the court
might be proved, in the absence of a return, from other
sources, there is no proof of such seizure here. And what
appears in this record?
1. A writ, and no return upon it.
2. No finding by the jury of the fact of seizure.
There is nothing to show that the marshal, as an officer
of"the court, ever had this property in his custody, nothing,
that that was done which could give the court jurisdiction.
That the person who at one time seized this property was
the same person who was marshal of the court when the
monition issued, can make no difference. There is nothing
to prevent that person from acting in two or more different
capacities, and he did not act as the officer of the court, or
in obedience to any process issuing from it, when he made
this seizure.
I. The decree of sale was passed 29th July, 1863, prior
to the first Monday in August, on which last day the monition and attachment were returnable, so that the legal notice
prescribed was disregarded and the decree rendered without
either actual or constructive notice. Of course such a sale
is not judicial, but void to all intents, and in whatever way
it may be presented to a court as a muniment of title.
The libel does not on its face show that the plaintiff in
error had not within sixty days after public warnin.g and
proclamation by the President ceased to aid, &c., in the rebellion, as required by the sixth section of the act of 17th
July, 1862.*
III. The decree of condemnation does not find the essential fact, that the property belonged to a person engaged in
the rebellion. The seventh sectiont only authorizes the
condemnation of the property seized " f it shall befound to
*See supra, p. 271.

t 1b. p. 271.

:Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.

Argument against the confiscation.

have belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, or who has
given aid and comfort thereto." The libel alleges that the
"said accused is and was on the 17th day of July, and previously thereto had been the owner" of the property seized
in this case, and that the accused had engaged in the rebellion and given aid and comfort thereto. But there is no
finding in regard to these facts by the court:
IV. The act of 17th July, 1862, is entitled "an act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, &c."
Its character as a penal act is proclaimed in its title; its
provisions are in harmony with its title. They are throughout punitive and highly penal;- they punish with death or
with imprisonment almost as bad as death, the crime of
treason; they create a new crime, that of rebellion, and punish it with imprisonment or fine, or with both, at the discretion of the court, and, to all these penalties superadd those
of confiscation and of civil disability, heretofore unknown
to our penal code. No one can doubt, that this is a penal
statute designed to punish treason and rebellion. If such
be the fact, every proceeding having for its object to inflict.
that punishment, is in effect, and should be in form, a criminal prosecution. The proceedings in the present case fulfil
none of the requirements of the Constitution for a criminal
prosecution in a crime of this magnitude. The accusation
is preferred not by the indictment of the grand jury, but by
a libel of information filed by the district attorney. Theaccused was not "informed" of his accusation, unless an
advertisement in .a newspaper be considered such information. Finally, he was not confronted with the witnesses.
against him, but was tried in his absence, and the trial vasby the judge, not by a jury. If it be said that this is not a
criminal prosecution, because it is in the form of a civil pro-cess, we answer: 1st, that this is precisely what we complain of, and that the nature of a proceeding does not depend on its form, but, on the contrary, its form on its
nature.
The conclusion is therefore inevitable, that the present
case involved a criminal prosecution disguised under the.
VOL.

M.

22

TYLER

v. :DEFREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the confiscation.

forms of a civil process. Consequently that this was not
"due process of law" in the sense of the Constitution.
How will the defendant seek to escape from these unanswerable arguments?
*He will say: 1st. That property may be confiscated for
crime, by proceedings in rem, without conviction of the
owner.
2d. That property confiscated under the act of July 17th,
1862, is confiscated, not for crime, but as en~emy's property.
.Both these propositions are incorrect. In support of the
first, the defendant would doubtless rely on the decisions of
this court in various cases of maritime seizure, for breaches
of navigation laws,* in which it was held that the prohibition contained in the fifth amendment to the Constitution
did not apply to confiscations by proceedings in rem, for
violation of the laws of impost, navigation, and trade.
Al examination of the principles on which these decisions
are founded will show that they do not sustain the proposition for which they are cited.
Proceedings in rem, have, from time immemorial, been
employed in courts of admiralty, as means of enforcing a
jus in re, that is a claim or right (such as a privilege, or lien,
or an hypothecation), in the specific thing proceeded against.
At a later period it was adopted in England for enforcing
the forfeiture of vessels or merchandise for breaches of revenue or navigation laws; but, of course, always confined to
property that was directly connected with the alleged violation of law, either as the subject of it or as the means with
which it was committed. This practice existed both in the
mother country and in the colonies when the Constitution
was adopted, and the Supreme Court, in the cases above
referred to, decided that the prohibition contained in the
fifth amendment to the Constitution did not apply to this
class of cases. But why did it not apply to them? For two
reasons: 1st. Because they were not of a criminal nature.
* La Vengeance, 3 Dallas, 297; The Sally, 2 Cranch, 406; The.Betsey, 4
Id. 443; The Samuel, 1 -Wheaton, 9; The Octavia, lb. 20; The Sarah, 8 Id.
391; The Palmyra, 12 Id. 1, and others of more recent date.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER

v.

DEFREES.

Argument against the confiscation.

2d. Because the words " due process of law," in that amendment, must be understood with reference to the laws in
force at the time it was adopted; and as the confiscation of
property by proceedings in rem against it for violations of
laws of impost, navigation, and trade was a process in use

at that time, it was included in the words "due process of
law."
The Palmyra, one of the cases referred to, illustrates the
principles on which these decisions are founded. This vessel
was libelled for the violation of a special statute which declared that any vessel violating its provisions should be forfeited, but affixed no personal penalty to the offence. The
defence set up was a want of a previous conviction of her
owner. She was condemned on the groun'ds: 1st, that the
law created no crime of which the owner could be convicted;
2d, that "this doctrine had never (in England) been applied
to seizures or forfeitures created by statute in rem, cognizable
on the revenue side of the Exchequer." That, in these cases
"the thing is primarily considered as the offender, or rather the
offence is primarily attached to the thing." "Many cases
exist where the forfeiture is solely in rem, there is no penalty
in personam," &c. The court adds, however, that "if the
objection was presented at common law it must prevail."
Now,

in the present case the law does impose a personal

penalty on the owner. There is a crime, of which he can
be convicted, and he is charged with that crime, and the
law expressly declares, that the property cannot be condemned, unless that crime shall have been committed by
the owner. 2d. In the present case the objection of a want
of conviction of the crime, is presented in a case at common
law. But the point to which the attention of the court is
I;articularly called, is the care with which the right to confiscate property, by proceedings in rem, is confined to cases
"on the revenue side of the Exchequer," in which " the thing is
considered as primarily the offender." In the present case
it is not pretended that the houses and lots seized, have committed the offence for which their forfeiture is demanded,
or have been in any manner instrumental in, or connected

TYLER V. DEFREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the confiscation.

with, the said offence. On the contrary, the owner thereof
is alone charged with the offence. It is evident, therefore, that these decisions afford no countenance whatever,
to the novel doctrine that Congress may authorize the confiscation of property for crime, without a previous conviction of the owner, by proceeding against the property itself.
Chancellor Kent,* in commenting on these decisions, says
that "it may now be considered as the settled law of this country, that all seizures under laws of impost, navigation, and
trade, if made upon tide waters, navigable from the sea, are
civil cases of admiralty jurisdiction." So far, therefore, from
supposing that these decisions afford any ground for extending this mode of proceeding to any other class of cases than
those of "impost, navigation, and trade," he regrets, that
the Supreme Court should have gone as far as they had in
sustaining them, and doubts the correctness of those decisions, which permit a resort to this mode of proceeding in
seizures, even of this class, which were not made on navigable waters, inasmuch as, in England, such seizures, when
made on land, were cognizable only in the Court of Exchequer, where the trial of all facts is by jury.
He concludes his remarks on this subject by the following
reflections apposite to the present case:
"These proceedings for the forfeiture of large and valuable
portions of property under revenue and navigation laws, are
highly penal in their consequences, and the government and its
officers are always parties, and deeply concerned in the conviction and forfeiture; and if, by act of Congress, or judicial construction, the prosecution can be turned over to the admiralty
side of the District Court, as being neither a criminal prosecution nor a civil suit at common law, the trial of a cause is
transferred from a jury of the country to the breast of a single
judge."
The second ground on which these proceedings are sought
to be sustained, is equally untenable.
* 1 Commentaries, 875.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER

v. DEFREES.

Argument against the confiscation.

Before we discuss this point, however, we ask a question.
If it be true that property confiscated under the act of 1862,
is confiscated on the ground that it is the property of an
enemy, why in the present case was it not alleged to be the
property of an enemy? WThy was not its condemnation
asked for, and the decree of condemnation based on that
ground? There is nothing in all the proceedings looking
to the condemnation of the property as that of an enemy; on
the contrary; it is demanded on the ground that the owner
has committed acts of treason and rebellion, crimes which
cannot be committed by an enemy. If then, it be true that
the property can only be condemned on the ground that it
is enemy's property, the decree, for that reason alone, if for
no other, would be void. But supposing the sentence of
condemnation to have been based on the ground that the
property belonged to an enemy, have Congress declared, or
could Congress declare, the property of a citizen to be that
of an enemy ?
The word enemy in its legal sense has a different meaning from that in which it is ordinarily used. It has no reference to the feelings or conduct of a person, but simply to
his nationality. Oil the other hand, no citizen, however inimical his feelings or his conduct towards his own country
may be, can claim the immunities or.incur the liabilities of
an enemy. The xord is therefore synonymous with alien
enemy, and this is the sense in which it is used by all legal
writers. To call a rebel an enemy, therefore, would be a
contradiction in terms.
The act of 1862 is chargeable with no such contradiction.
The whole argument for the contrary rests upon a single
ambiguous expression in the 7th section, to wit: that which
declares that the property shall be condemned "as enemy's
property." The defendant assumes that the Words "as
enemy's property," here mean, "because it is enemy's
property," or "on the ground that it is enemy's property ;"
but how could that be, when previous sections of the act
had declared the very parties whose property is thus to be
condemned, to be "traitors" and "rebels," and punishes

TYLER V. DEFREES.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument in support of the confiscation.

them as such? The expression means, simply that the property shall be condemned as f it was enemy's property, or, in
the same manner as if it was enemy's property.
Messrs. A. G. Riddle, S. L. -Phillips, and L. Madison -Day,
for the defendant in error:
I. The District Court had jurisdiction in the confiscation
of the property in question, both under the statute of the
17th July, 1862, and by the general law of proceedings in
rem, the moment of seizure and institution of proceedings.
The 5th section of the Confiscation Act of 1862 declares:
" To insure the speedy termination of the present rebellion,
it shall be the duty of the President to cause seizure of all the
estate," &c.
And in the 7th section:
"To secure the condemnation and sale of any such property,
after the same shall have been seized, so that it may be available for the purpose aforesaid, prqc.eedings in rem shall be instituted in the name of the United States, in any District Court
thereof, or in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia, within which the property above described may be
found."
Here is the legislative declaration of what shall give jurisdiction to a court for the purposes of condemnation and
sale. Seizure, and the institution of proceedings-a libel,
according to the form of the admiralty-both of which are
found by the special verdict.
But, independently of any statutory regulation, in all proceedings in rem a court of admiralty, whether as a prize or
instance court, has jurisdiction and absolute control over the
thing as soon as seized and libelled.* The District Court
does not derive its jurisdiction from any possession, actual
or supposed, of its officers, but from the act and plAce of the
seizure for the forfeiture; and if it at once acquires juris*

Jennings v. Carson, 4 Cranch, 23.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER

v.

DEFREES.

Argument in support of the confiscation.

diction, it is not avoided by any subsequent irregularity.*
In a case of seizure on land, it was held nothing more was
necessary to give jurisdiction in cases of this nature, than
that seizure should be made within the district.t And
where it was held,J for the first time, that seizures made on
land were cases at common law and triable by jury, it was
still held that a libel stating the fact of seizure on land
would give jurisdiction.
In order to institute and perfect proceedings in rem, it is
necessary that the thing should be actually and constructively within the reach of the court. It is actually within
its possession, when it is submitted to the process of the
court; it is constructively so when, by a seizure, it is held
to ascertain and enforce a right or forfeiture which can
alone be decided by a judicial decree in rem.ยง
II. The court having had jurisdiction over the thing, can
such an irregularity a..entry of final decree before return
day of monition, be relied upon in this collateral action?
It is a rule without exception, that the judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction while unreversed concludes
the subject-matter as between the said parties. They canhot again bring it into litigation.11 In .Blaine v. The Charles
Carter, a ship had been. sold under executions issued within
ten days after judgment, contrary to the express provision
of the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, but no writ of error
was taken out. The court declared that if the executions
were irregular "the court from which they issued ought to
have been moved to set them aside. They were not void,
becaunse the marshal could have justified under them; and
if voidable, the proper means of destroying their efficacy
had not been pursued."
* Bolina and Cargo, 1 Gallison, 81, 83; 2 Parsons on Maritime Law, 585.

f Keene v. United States, 5 Cranch, 304.
$ The Sarah, 8 Wheaton, 391.
The Brig Ann, 9 Cranch, 289, 291.
II United States v. Nourse, 9 Peters, 8; Voorhees v.Bank of the United
States, 10 Peters, 449.
4 Cranch, 328-333.

TYLER v.

DEFREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question for our consideration is, whether the confiscation proceedings, as found in the special verdict, divested
the title of the plaintiff in the lot?
These proceedings do not come before us on a writ of error
to correct any irregularities or mere errors of law in the court
which rendered the judgment, but they come before us collaterally as the foundation of the defendant's title.
According to the well-settled doctrine in such cases, no
error can be regarded here, or could have been considered
in the court below on the triai, that does not go to the extent
of showing a want of jurisdiction in the court which rendered the judgment condemning the property.*
Counsel for the plaintiffin error recognize this principle,
but it is remarkable what a number of supposed errors in
the proceedings are found by them to be jurisdictional. Almost every point that has been urged in the cases of Garnet
v. The United States, and Miller v. The Same, on writ of error
directly to those confiscation proceedings, is here relied on
as sufficient to defeat the jurisdiction. Looking to the errors
alleged, it may safely be said that if half that has been so
earnestly urged by counsel in these cases be well founded,
the confiscation acts would be nugatory from the difficulty
of putting them judicially in force, though their constitutionality were conceded.
Undoubtedly, by the individual, whose property is thus
seized and condemned for acts of hostility to his government, the course pursued would be scrutinized with an eye
quick to detect errors, and it is not strange that this critical
spirit should affect the argument here. When to this is
added the belief, long inculcated, that the Federal government, however strong in a conflict with a foreign foe, lies
manacled by the Constitution and helpless at the feet of a
domestic enemy, we need not be surprised that both the
power of Congress to pass such a law as the one in question,
* See Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wallace, 308, and the numerous cases there
cited.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.
Opinion of the court.

and the capacities of the courts to enforce it, should meet
with a stout denial.
.But we do not believe that the Congress of the United
States, to which is confided all the great powers essential to
a perpetual union-the power to make war, to suppress insurrection, to levy taxes, to make rules concerning captures
on laud and on sea-is deprived of these powers when the
necessity for their exercise is called out by domestic insurrection and internal civil war-when States, forgetting their
"constitutional obligations, make war against the nation, and
confederate together for its destruction.
And we are further of opinion that where, the constitutionality of the confiscation acts being established, we are
called upon to sit in review on the judicial proceedings of
the inferior courts in the enforcement of these statutes, we
are to be governed by the reasonable and sound rules applicable to analogous cases in the courts, and not by a system
of procedure so captious, so narrow, so difficult to understand or to execute, as to amount to a nullification of the
statute.

The framers of the act of July 17th, 1862, appear to have
anticipated much of what has been since urged in regard to
the mode of proceeding in the execution of that statute.
Seeing very clearly that the cases of seizure under the law
would be mainly on land, and would not, in that case, be
cognizable as admiralty cases, and that being founded on
the principle of coniscating enemy property, they were not
strietly revenue cases; their attention was called to the
proper mode of procedure in the enforcement of the law.
As the act was designed to introduce the principle of confiscating enemy property seized on land, like that seized on
water, applying the confiscation, however, to the property
of a limited class of enemies, instead of to all enemies, it
was conceived that the proceeding should be, in its essential
features, analogous to those which the courts of admiralty
were accustomed to use in property captured at sea. The
same courts were to have jurisdiction, the same officers
were to administer the law, and, as those courts were

TYLER V. DEPREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

already in possession of jurisdiction in revenue and admiralty cases, and as the analogies of those cases to the new
jurisdiction conferred were supposed to present a mode of
enforcing the law adapted to the latter in their main fea.
tures, it was enacted that the proceedings under the statute
should conform, as near as might be, to proceedings in admiralty or revenue cases; and, foreseeing also that in some
respects they could not be strictly so conformed, the statute
authorized the courts to make such orders, establish such
forms of decrees and sale, and direct such deeds, when real
estate shall be the subject of sale, as shall fitly and efficiently
effect the purposes of the act.
Unquestionably, it was within the power of Congress to
provide a full code of procedure for these cases, but it chose
to give a directibn on the subject which, adopting, as a general rule, a well-established system of administering the law
of capture, looked to the fact that departures from that system might be necessary, and invested the courts with a discretion in that regard.
Five or six cases arising under this statute were argued
before us at the last term, and, appreciating both the difficulty and the importance of some of the points raised in
argument, they were all ordered to be argued again at this
term, and have, under that order, been ably and fully reargued. They have all been disposed of but this, and the court
have not hesitated, where there was a substantial departure
from the mode of proceeding directed by the statute, to reverse the decree of the courts below in the cases which were
here on error to those proceedings. And when we have
found the proceedings to be conformable to the course of
procedure of revenue and admiralty cases, we have held the
decrees to be valid. The cases thus decided, and especially
the case of Miller v. United States, in effect dispose of all the
objections taken to the action of the court in this case, even
if that action were here for review directly, instead of being
presented collaterally in another suit.
But, as one point was much and earnestly pressed as peculiar to this case, and as conclusive against the validity of

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.

Opinion of the court.

the confiscation proceedings, that point will be further considered.
It is argued that there was no such judicial seizure of the
land which was condemned and sold as to bring it within
the jurisdiction of the court.
The record shows that the marshal of the District of Columbia, in which court the proceeding was had, and within
the territorial jurisdiction of which court the land was situated, did seize the land under the instruction of the attorney
of the United States for the district. To objection is made
that this seizuie was not full and complete. The orler of
the district attorney was directed to the marshal of the District of Columbia and described the property to he seized,
and stated that the seizure was to be made for the purpose
of instituting proceedings for its condemnhtion under the
act of July 17th, 1862. The marshal returned on this paper
that he had seized the property and given notice to the tenants in possession, and he makes a part of this return the
notice served on the occupants of the premises, in which he
states that it is to be held subject to the order of the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia. After
this the libel was duly filed in that court, and a monition
was issued from it to the same marshal, ordering him to
give due notice and to attach the property and to detain the
same in his custody until the further order of the court in
the premises. To this monition no return was made by the
marshal except a certificate of publication of notice.
The proposition of the plaintiff's counsel is, that because
no return of the marshal was made that he seized the property under this monition, the cotrt had no jurisdiction of
the case, and its subsequent condemnation and sale were
void.
When we consider that itwas the same officer and the
same individual who had already seized the property, and
had it in his control and possession, and that his statement
to that effect was before the court, with the addition that he
held it subject to the order of the court, that he was the
only executive officer of the court who could make the

348

TYLER v. DErhEES.

[Sup Ct.

Opinion of the court.

seizure, the point raised seems to be as narrow and unsubstantial as the second seizure would be useless.
The argument is based upon the analogy of revenue seizures, which are always of personal and movable property,
and which are always made in the first instance by some
other officer or individual than the marshal, and which must
be taken possession of by the marshal as the representative
of the court. This is usually done under a process of the
court for the purpose of bringing the property under its
recognized control. And this is at once the reason, and
suggests the limit of the two seizures in revenue cases so
much relied on by counsel.
Now, suppose the property in this case had been personal
property, how could the marshal make a seizure of that
which was already in his manual possession? Whose possession would he displace? Could one hand represent the
seizure under the monition'and the other the seizure under
the act of Congress? And can it be seriously contended
that this must be done to give the court jurisdiction, when
the officer of the court held the property already for condemnation or discharge as the court might order?
It may, however, be said that he should have made return
of the writ, that he had seized and held the property under
that. Such a return as to seizure would have been false,
because lie had seized it before and could make no second
seizure, in fact, by taking it from his own possession. And
he had already informed the court that he detained the property subject to its order.

The proceeding inaugurated by the district attorney is
designed to bring the property before the court. It can have
no other purpose or end, unless it is released by his order.
The district attorney and the marshal are both officers of
the court, and for that reason are selected to institute the
proceeding by which the power of the court is called into
exercise. When, therefore, the property is in the course of
this proceeding seized by the marshal, and when with the
filing of the libel all that has been done is brought before the
court and it adopts and recognizes this seizure, the property

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER

v.

DEFREES.

Opinion of Field and Clifford JJ., dissenting.

is held by him subject to the order of the court, and is under
its control, and no second seizure by the same officer can be
necessary.
In regard to real estate, the argument is still more forcible.
The remarks of thit court in Cooper v. _Beynolds, already
cited, are directly in point. Speaking of the various modes
of acquiring jurisdiction, it was there said, that "while the
general rule in regard to jurisdiction in rem requires the
actual seizure and possession of the res by the officer of the
court, such jurisdiction may be acquired by acts which are
of equivalent import, and which stand for and represent the
dominion of the court over the thing, and in effect subject
it to the control of the court. Among this latter class is the
levy of a writ of attachment or seizure of real estate, which
being incapable of removal, and being within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court, is for all practical purposes brought
under the jurisdiction of the court by the officer's levy of the
writ and return of that fact in the court."
When, therefore, the officer, as in this case, had seized
the property for condemnation, and had made known that
fact to the court, it was quite certain that it would be within
reach of its process when condemned for sale, and when it
became necessary to put the purchaser in possession of it.
lNo change of the title or possession could be made, pending
the judicial proceedings, which would defeat the final decree.
The seizure was therefore, in our judgment, sufficient to
subject the land to the jurisdiction of the court.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
AFFiaMED.
Columbia is therefore
Mr. Justice DAVIS expressed his concurrence in the judgment, though he stated that he had not been able to concurin all that was said by the court in the preceding opinion.
Mr. Justice FIELD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
CLIFFORD, dissenting.
I am compelled to dissent from the judgment of the court
inthis case.

TYLER V. DEFREES.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

I agree with the majority that as the decree of confiscation, under which the defendant asserts title to the demanded
premises, comes beford us collaterally, it cannot be attacked
for mere errors or irregularities committed in the progress
of the cause in which it was rendered. It can be only
attacked for defects which go to the jurisdiction of the court,
either over the subject-matter or the parties, or to render
the particular decree. It is not strictly correct to say that,
if the jurisdiction over the subject-matter and the parties
exists in a particular case, any defect in the decree rendered
can only be taken advantage of on appeal or by direct proceedings. That jurisdiction may exist and yet the decree
may be so variant from that which the court was authorized
to pronounce as to be void on its face. If the law, for example, authorize a pecuniary fine, the court cannot award
imprisonment. If the law directs only damages to be assessed, the court cannot decree a specific performance. If
the law declares that only a life estate shall be confiscated,
the court cannot disregard its limitation and condemn the
fee. The judgments in such cases would be void in whole
or part, notwithstanding complete jurisdiction was had over
the subject and the parties in controversy. There are certain limitations to the action of courts even after they have
acquired jurisdiction which they caunot traniscend without
opening their judgments to collateral attack. In other
words, jurisdiction over the subject-matter and parties does
not authorize a judgment in the case of any and every
kind.
All reasonable presumptions are indulged in support of
judgments when collaterally attacked. So large are these
presumptions that they generally answer as an explanation
Tor the absence of all matters in the record, which are required to be taken before the judgment can be lawfully
entered. As the presumptions are indulged to supply the
absence of averments of the particular facts presumed, they
cease to be received when the contrary of the particular
supposed facts appears. Thus when a record of a judgment,
rendered in an action at law upon an issue joined between

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER

v.

DEFREES.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

the parties, is produced, in which no verdict of a jury or
finding of the court appears, upon the existence of which
alone the judgment could be entered, it will be presumed
that such verdict or finding Was had. But, on the other
hand, if it affirmatively appear in the record that no such
proceeding was had, thejudgment may be attacked as having
.been rendered without authority. It is of no avail, then, to
invoke the doctrine that a judgment cannot be collaterally
assailed. The doctrine does not apply to a case of this kind,
for the record itself establishes the invalidity of the judgment produced.
The objections which I make to. the decree, upon which
the defendant asserts title, go to the jurisdiction of the court
over the property condemned, to its jurisdiction to enter the
decree rendered, and to the validity of the act of July 17th,
1862. Similar objections were taken by me in a dissenting
opinion to the decree in the case of Miller v. United States, recently decided, but the importance I attach to them justifies
their further elucidation.
Fi 'rst; as to the jurisdiction of the court over the property.
The executive seizure of the property required by the act of
Congress is preliminary to the commencement of judicial
'proceedings for its forfeiture. "After the same shall have
been seized," says the statute, proceedings shall be instituted. Now, when the executive seizure in this case was
made, what was the condition of the property before judicial proceedings were taken? Was it in the custody of the
court? Clearly not. As yet the court had nothing to do
with it-no more than, before suit, it has to do with a vessel
seized by the collector for a violation of the revenue laws, or
brought into port by a prize crew for an attempted breach of
blockade. The fact that the marshal was employed as the
agent of the President in making the seizure, did not chango
the position of the property. The' President might have
selected any other person as his agent with the same result.
He might, at this stage, have released the property from
seizure upon his own volition, without interfering with the
authority of, or coming in collision with the court. As yet

352

TYLER V. DEFREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

no relations were established between the court and the
property seized. Whatever the marshal, in making the
preliminary seizure, may have said to the occupants of the
premises seized, or whatever notice he may have given to
them, whether it was that he held the property subject to
the directions of the President, or to the order of the Dis:
trict Court or district attorney, in no wise affected the condition of the property, or created any relation between it
and the court. The existence of any such relation did not
depend upon the declaration of that officer, who,-as yet, was
not acting under any judicial process.
The next proceeding was the filing of the libel of information; but that did not change the relation between the
court and the property. The libel was the foundation for the
issue of the process of the court to bring the property within
its custody; but, of itself, without such process, it worked
no change in the condition of things. When was it ever
pretended that the mere filing of a libel, without the issue
of process, brought person or thing into the custody of the
court? When the libel was filed process was ordered, and
process was issued, commanding the marshal to ttach the
property and detain the same in his custody.. By .attachment under this. judicial process, had it been made, the
court would have acquired jurisdiction over the property,
for it is by seizure under judicial process, and that alone,
that the court takes the res into its custody. But the process thus issued was never served, and the jurisdiction of the
court over the property rested upon the preliminary seizure
alone. And yet we are told by the majority of the court that
the objection that this preliminary seizure was insufficient
to give the requisite jurisdiction, and that a new seizure,
under judicial process, was necessary, is a very narrow and
unsubstantial objection. I answer, that no objection is narrow or unsubstantial Which goes to the jurisdiction of the
court to forfeit the property of a citizen upon ex parte proceedings, without a hearing, for alleged public offences of

which he is assumed to be guilty, because he did not appear
to a citation, which the law prohibited from being comnm-

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.
Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

nicated to him. This court has repeatedly dismissed writs
of error because tested by a wrong officer, or made returnable on a day other than the first day of the term, or because they did not embrace all the parties to the record;
and when it has been urged that the objections taken to
them were extremely. narrow and unsubstantial, the answer
has been that nothing could be treated as narrow and un.substantial, and for that reason disregarded, which was
prescribed by law as the mode of exercising the appellate
jurisdiction of tte court. So, here, nothing can justly be
considered as'either narrow or unsubstantial which is required by law to give jurisdiction to a court to enforce penal
statutes, in the absence of the alleged offenders against their
provisions.
Second; as to the jurisdiction of the court to render the.
decree in the confiscation case. The act of Congress, as
already stated, is highly penal in its consequences, and by
all established canons of interpretation should be strictly
construed.* Its every requirement should be rigidly exacted. What, then, are its requirements? It declares that
the proceedings instituted for the condemnation of the property seized shall conform as nearly as maybe to proceedingsin admiralty or revenue cases, and if the property shall be
found to have belonged to a person engaged in the rebellion,
or who has given aid and comfort thereto, the same shall be.
condemned. "
As the proceedings in the case upon which the defendant
relies related to land, they should have conformed, according
to those provisions, as nearly as practicable to proceedings
in revenue cases. Now the statute of 1799 prescribes the.
proceedings in these cases, and declares that after default is
made in one of them, "the court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause according to law," a clause which has.
,been judicially held, and in my opinion correctly held, to
make it imperative upon the court that there shall be somehearing before a decree of forfeiture is rendered, and "the .
* 1 Kent's Commentaries, 376.

VOL. XI.

23

TYLER V. DEFREES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

court will require," says Mr. Justice Sprague, in such cases,
"the prosecutor to introduce fall proof of the allegations in
the libel whenever the circumstances shall make it reasonable."*
If we consider the provision of the law of 1799, and the
provision of the act of 1862, for a finding, it seems impossible
to escape the conclusion-, that a finding upon hearing is an
essential prerequisite to any decree of forfeiture in these
confiscation cases. The authority to render the decree is-in
express terms made conditional upon a particular fact being
found. If the fact designated be found, says the statute, the
property shall be condemned, which is equivalent to declaring that if such fact be not found, no condemnation shall be
decreed. As the record produced in the case, upon which
the defendant relies, shows that no hearing was had and no
finding was made, the decree of forfeiture rendered therein
appears to me to be an act of judicial usurpation.
Third; as to the validity of the clauses of the act of 1862,
providing for the seizure and confiscation of the property
of rebels. This point I have already considered at length in
the dissenting opinion in Miller v. United Slates, and I shall
only add a few words. In that dissenting opinion I expressly
stated that it had been held that, when the late rebellion
assumed the proportions of a territorial civil war, the inhabitants of the Confederate States and the inhabitants of the
loyal States became reciprocally enemies to each other, and
that the inhabitants of the Confederate States engaged in
the rebellion, or giving aid and comfort thereto, were at the
same time amenable to the municipal law as rebels, and that
the correctness of this determination was not disputed; that
the question was, not as to .the right of Congress to adopt
either of these courses, but what course had Congress, by
its legislation, authorized. It is indisputable, that whatever
Congress may authorize to be done, by the law of nations,
in the prosecution of war against an independent nation, it
may authorize to be done when engaged in the prosecution
* United States v. Schooner Lion, 1 Spraguc, 400.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.
Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

of a territorial civil war against the domestic enemies of the
United States. I contend only that the limitations, which
the law of nations has imposed in the conduct of war between
independent nations, should apply and govern the United
States in whatever war they may prosecute. I do not doubt,
and never have doubted for a moment, that the United States
possess all the power necessary to suppress all insurrections,
however formidable, and to make their authority respected
and obeyed throughout the limits of the republic. But this
recognition of the power of the government cannot be permitted to preclude a 6omparison of all legislation, adopted
,to uphold its authority, with the Constitution. And in so
cornparing the act of July 17th, 1862, I am unable to find
in that great instrument any sanction for the clauses in the
act providing for the seizure and confiscation of the property
of persons charged with particular criminal acts. I do not
find it in the war powers of the government, for they sanction only the confiscation of the property of public enemies.
I do not find it in the municipal power of the government
,to legislate for the punishment of crimes, for that is subject
to limitations; which secure to the accused a trial by a jury
,of his peers, and the right to be confronted with the witnesses against him.
It is true, as already stated, that enemies participatiig
in the rebellion, or giving aid and comfort thereto, might
have been treated as rebels and held amenable to the municipal law. Yet the terms, enemies and rebels, are not
synonymous, even though the rebellion attained the proportions of a territorial civil war. A permanent resident of
the Confederacy was an enemy, although he may always
have opposed the rebellion and remained loyal in his feeling
and action to the lNational government. His position as an
enemy was determined by his residence,'and had nothing to
do with his personal disposition or conduct. But he was not
a rebel, and could not have been prosecuted as such unless
he was personally guilty of treasonable acts.
Congress well understood the distinction between enemies
and rebels, and we are not justified in supposing that it in-

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tended to disregard this distinction in its legislation, even
-were that practicable, as it was not.
My conclusion is that the judgment of the court below
was erroneous, and should be reversed.

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.
1. The acceptance by the collector of a false and fraudulent bond given for
the removal of distilled spirits from a bonded warehouse, will not prevent a forfeiture of such spirits under the 45th section of the Internal
Revenue Act of July 18th, 1866, which forfeits "distilled spirits found
elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, not having been removed therefrom according to law."
2., The removal will be illegal if effected by means of a false and fraudulent
bond.
8. The 48th section of the Internal Revenue Act of June 80tb, 1864, as
amended by the act of 1866, which forfeits "all goods, wares, merchandise, articles or objects," if found in possession of any person in
fraud of the internal revenue laws, &c., is applicable to distilled spirits
notwithstanding the forfeiture of spirits is provided for in a distinct
series of sections relating thereto in the same law, or in a supplementary law.
4. All the sections can stand together; and where that is the case one does
not repeal or supersede the other, as repeals by implication are not
favored.
5. The rule that notice to the agent is notice to the principal applies not
only to knowledge acquired by the agent in the particular transaction,
but to knowledge acquired by him in a prior transaction and present
to his mind at the time he is acting as such agent, provided it be of
such a character as he may communicate to his principal without
breach of professional confidence.
6. Where distilled spirits forfeited to the United States are mixed with
other distilled spirits belonging to the same person (ignorant of the
forfeiture) they are not lost to the government by such mixture, either
on the principle of confusion of goods, or transmutation of species,
even though subsequently run through leaches for the purpose of rectification. The governmept will be entitled to its proportion of the
result.

Ix error to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being this:
The 48th section of the Internal Revenue Act of June

