Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.
Syllabus.

in question. But if the record," he proceeds, "does not show
that they were necessarily drawn in question, this court cannot take jurisdiction to reverse the decision of the highest
court of a State upon the ground that counsel brought them
in question in argument." We will add, if this court should
entertain jurisdiction upon a certificate alone in the absence
of any evidence of the question in the record, then the Supreme Court of the State can give the jurisdiction in every
case where the question is made by counsel in the argument.
The office of the certificate, as it respects the Federal question, is to make more certain and specific what is too general
aild indefinite in the record, but is incompetent to originate
the question within the true construction of the 25th section.
MOTION TO DISMISS GRANTED.

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.
1. This court has original jurisdiction, under the Constitution, of'controversies between States of the Union concerning their boundaries.
2. This jurisdiction is not defeated because in deciding the question of
boundary it is necessary to consider and construe contracts and agreements between the States, nor because the judgment or decree of the
court may affect the territorial limits of the jurisdiction of the States
that are parties to the suit.
3. The ordinance of the organic convention of the Commonwealth of Virginia, under which the State of West Virginia was organized, and the
act of May 13th, 1862, of the said Commonwealth, constitute a proposition of the former State that the counties of Jefferson and Berkeley and
others might, on certain conditions, become part of the new State; and
the provisions of the constitution of the new" State concerning those
counties are an acceptance of that proposition.
4. The act of Congress admitting the State of West Virginia into the Union
at the request of the Commonwealth of Virginia, with the provisions
for the transfer of those counties in the constitution of the new State,
and in the acts of.the Virginia legislature, is an implied consent to the
agreement of those States on that subject.
5. The consent required by the Constitution to make valid agreements between the'States need not necessarily be by an express assent to every
proposition of the agreement. In the present case the assent is an irresistible inference from the legislation of Congress on the subject.

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. The condition of the agreement on which the transfer of these two coun
ties was to be made was, that a majority of the votes cast on that question in the counties should be found in favor of the proposition.
7. The statutes of the Virginia legislature having authorized the governor
of that State to certify the result of the voting on that proposition to
the State of West Virginia, if, in his opinion, the vote was favorable,
and be having certified the fact that it was so, under the seal of the State
to the governor of West Virginia, and the latter State having accepted
and exercised jurisdiction over those counties for several years, the State
of Virginia is bound by her acts in the premises.
8. The State of Virginia cannot under such circumstances be permitted to
set aside te whole transaction'in a court of equity, on the ground that
no fair vote was taken, that her own governor was deceived and misled
by the election officers, with no charge of fraud or improper conduct on
the part of West Virginia, nor can she withdraw her consent two years
after the vote w-.s taken and the transfer of the counties accomplished.

ON original bill to settle the boundary line between the
States of Virginia and West Virginia, the case as existing
in well-known public history and from the record being
thus:
A convention professing to represent the State of Virginia,
which assembled in Richmond in February, 1861, attempted
by a so-called " ordinance of secession" to separate that State
from the Union, and combined with certain other Southern
States to accomplish that separation by arms. The people
of the northwestern part of the State, who were separated
from the eastern part by a succession of mountain ranges
and had never received the heresy of secession, refused
to acquiesce in what had been thus done, and organized
themselves to defend and maintain the Federal Union.
The idea of a separate State government soon developed
itself; and an organic convention of the State of Virginia,
which in June, 1861, organized the State on loyal principles
the Pierpont goveriiment"-and which new organiza-"
tion was acknowledged by the President and Congress of the
United States as the true State government of Virginiapassed August 20th, 1861, an ordinance by which they ordained that a new State be formed and erected out of the
territory included within certain boundaries (set forth) including within those boundaries of the proposed new State

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

41

Statement of the case.

the counties of, &c. [thirty-nine counties being named].
These counties did not inclfide as within the proposed State
the counties of either Greenbrier, Pocahontas, Hampshire,
Hardy, Morgan, Berkeley, or Jefferson; but the third section
of the ordinance enacted that the convention might change
the boundaries described in the first section of the ordinance
so as to include within the proposed State the counties of
Greenbrier and Pocahontas, or either of them, and also the
other counties just above named, or either of them, "and
also all, such other counties as lie contiguous to the said
boundaries or to ihe counties named," if the said counties
to be added, or either of them, by a majority of the votes
given, &c., should declare their wish to form part of the
proposed State, an~d should elect delegates to the said convention, &c. The name of the new State as ordained by
the ordinance was Kanawha.
The convention provided for by the ordinance met in
Wheeling, November 26th, 1861, and made a " C onstitution
of West Virginia." Certain counties named, forty-four in
number, "fbrmerly part of the State of Virginia," it was
ordained should be "included in and form part of the State
of West Virginia." No one of the counties of Pendleton,
Har.ly, Hampshire, Morgan, Berkeley, or Jefferson, were
among these forty-four. The constitution proceeded, in a
second section:
"And if a majority of the votes cast at the election or elections held as provided in the schedule hereof, in the district
conposed of the counties of Pendleton, Hardy, Hampshire, and
Morgan, shall be in favor of the adoption of this constitution,
the said four counties shall be included in and form part of the
State of West Virginia; and if the same shall be so included,
and a majority of the votes cast at the aid election or elections,
in the district composed of Berkeley, Jefferson,and Frederick, shall
be in favor of' the adoption of this constitution, then the three
last-named counties shall also be included in and form part of

the State of West Virginia."
All through the constitution, as, ex. yr., in the fixing of

VIRGINIA V.

WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

senatorial and representative districts, and of judicial circuits, provision was made for the case of these two sets of
counties coming in, or of one set coming in without the
other. A separate section ordained that"Additional territory may be admitted into, and become part
of this State, with the consent of the legislature."
And it provided for the representation in the Senate and
House of Delegates of such new territory.
By the terms of this constitution it was to be submitted
to a vote of the people on the first Thursday in April, 1862;
and on a vote then taken it was ratified by the people of the
forty-four counties first named, and by those of Pendleton,
Hardy, Hampshire, and Morgan. But no one of the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson, or Frederick, apparently, voted
on the matter; owing, as was said by the defendant's counsel at the bar, to the fact, "that, from the 1st of June, 1861,
to the 1st of March, 1862, during which time thee proceedings for the formation of a new State were held, those counties were in the possession, and under the absolute control,
of the forces of the Confederate States; and that an attempt
to hold meetings in them to promote the formation of the
new State would have been followed by immediate arrest
and imprisonment."
All this being done, the legislature of Virginia, as reorganized, passed, on the 13th May, 1862, an act, in title
and body, thus:
An Act giving the consent of the Legislature of Virginia to the formation and
erection of a new State within the jurisdietonof this State.

§ 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That the consent of,
the legislature of Virginia be, and the same is hereby given to
the formation and erection of the State of West Virginia, within
the jurisdiction of this State, to include the counties of Hancock,
&c. [forty-eight counties being named (being the forty-four first
mentioned, with Pendleton, Hardy, Hampshire, and Morgan),
but the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson, or Frederick, not being
included], according to the boundaries and under the provisions set

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.
Statement of the case. •

forth inthe constitutionfor the said State of West Virginia and the
schedule thereto annexed, proposed by the convention which assembled at Wheeling on the 26th day of November, 1861.
§ 2. That the consent of the legislature of Virginia be, and the
same is hereby givFen, that the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson, and
.FSederick, shall be included in and form part of the State of
West Virginia WHENEVER the voters of said counties shall ratify
and assent to the said constitution, at an election held for the
purpose, at such time and under such regulations as the commissioners named in the said schedule may prescribe.
§ 3. That this act shall be transmitted by the Executive to
the senators and representatives of this Commonwealth in Congress, together with a certified original of the said constitution
and schedule, and the said senators and representatives are
hereby requested to use their endeavors to obtain the consent
of Congress to the admission of the State of West Virginia into
the Union.
§ 4. This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
Under this act, no elections apparently were held; and on
the 31st December, 1862,* Congress passed
An Act for Vie admission of the State of "W1est
and for other purposes.

irginia" into the Union,

Whereas, The people inhabiting that portion of Virginia known
as West Virginia, did by a convention assembled in the city of
Wheeling, on the 26th November, 1861, firame for themselves a
constitution with a view of becoming a separate and independent
State; and whereas, at a general election held in the counties
composing the territory aforesaid, on the 3d of May last, the
said constitution was approved and adopted by the qualified
voters of the proposed State; and whereas, the legislature of
Virginia, by an act passed 'on the 13th day of May, 1862, did
give its consent to the formation of a new State within the jurisdiction of the said State of Virginia, to be known by the name
of West Virginia, and to embrace the following named counties,
to wit [the fbrty-eight counties mentioned in the above-quoted
Virginia act of May 13, 1862, were here set forth by name, and
not including Berkeley or Jefferson]; and whereas, both the con* 12 Stat. at Large, 683.

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

vention and the legislature aforesaid have requested that the
new State should be admitted into the Union, and the constitution aforesaid being republican in form, Congress doth hereby
consent that the said forty-eight counties may be formed into a
separate and independent State; therefbre,
Be it enacted, &c., That the State of West Virginia be, and is
hereby declared to be one of the United States of America, and
admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original
States, in all respects whatsoever, &e.
The act contained a proviso that it should not take effect
until after the proclamation of the President of the United
States, hereinafter provided for. It then proceeded to recite
that it was represented to Congress that since the convention of 26th November, 1861, which framed and proposed
the constitution for the said State of 'West Virginia, the
people thereof had expressed a wish'to change the 7th section of the 11th article of said constitution, by striking out
the same, and inserting the following in its place. The
articie [on the subject of slavery] was then set forth. It
was therefore further enacted that whenever the people of
West Virginia 6hould, through their said convention, and
by a vote to be taken-&c., make and ratify the change aforesaid, and properly certify the same under the hand of the
president of the convention, it should be lawful for the
President of the United States to issue his proclamation
stating the fact, and that thereupon this act should take
effect, and be in force from and after sixty days from the
date of the proclamation.
This proclamation President Lincoln did issue on the 20th
April, 1863,* reciting the act, with, however, a condition
annexed; reciting that proof of compliance with the condition, as required by the second section of the act, had been
submitted to him, and in pursuance of the act declaring and
proclaiming that the act should take effect, and be in force
from and after sixty days from his proclamation.
N~ext in the history came certain acts of the State of Vir* 13 Stat. at Large, 731.

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

45

Statement of the case.

ginia; among them one passed January 31, 1863, and which,
with its title, ran thus:
An Act giving the consent of the State of Virginia to the County of Berkeley
being admitted into, and becomingpart of, the State of West Virginia.

Whereas, By the constitution for the State of West Virginia,
ratified by the people thereof, it is provided that additional territory may be admitted into and become part of said State, with
the consent of the legislature thereof, and it is represented to
the General Assembly that the people of the county of Berkeley
are desirous that said county should be admitted into and become part of the said State of West Virginia: Now, therefore,
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That polls shall be
opened and held on the fourth Thursday of May'next, at the
several places for holding elections in the county of Berkeley,
for the purpose of taking the sense of the qualified voters of
said county on the question of including said county in the State
of West Virginia.
2. The poll-books shall be headed as follows, viz.: "Shall the
county of Berkeley become a part of the State of West 7irginia?"
and shall contain two columns, one headed "Aye," and the other
"No," and the names of those who vote in favor of said county
becoming a part of the State of West Virginia shall be entered
in the first column, and the names of those who vote against it
shall be entered in the second column.
3. The said polls shall be superintended and conducted according to the laws regulating general elections, and the commissioners superintending the same at the court-house of the said
county shall, within six days from the commencement *of the
said vote, examine and compare the several polls taken in the
county, strike therefrom any votes which are by law directed to
be stricken from the same, and attach to the polls a list of the
votes stricken therefrom, and the reasons for so doing. The
result of the polls shall then be ascertained, declared, and certified as follows: The said commissioners shall make out two
returns in the following form, or to the following effect:

"We, commissioners for taking the vote of the qualified voters of Berkeley County on the question of including the said county in the State of West
Virginia, do hereby certify that polls for that purpose were opened and
held the fourth Thursday of May, in the year 1863, within said county, pur-

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

suant to law, and that the following is a true statement of the result as exhibited by the poll-books, viz.: for the county of Berkeley becoming part of
votes; and against it
votes. Given
the State of West Virginia,
under our hands this
day of
, 1803 ;"
which returns, written in words, not in figures, shall be signed
by the commissioners; one of the said returns shall be filed in
the clerk's office of the said county, and the other shall be sent,
under the seal of the secretary of this commonwealth, within ten
days from the commencement of the said vote, and the governor
of this State, if of opinion that the said vote has been opened and
held, and the result ascertained and certified pursuant to law,
shall certify the result of the same under the seal of this State, to the
governor of the said State of West Virginia.
4. If the governor of this State shall be of opinion that the
said polls cannot be safely and properly opened and held in the
said county of Berkeley, on.the fourth Thursday of May next,
he may by proclamation postpone the same, and appoint in the
same proclamation, or by one to be hereafter, issued, another
day for opening and holding the same.
5. If a majority of the votes given at the polls opened and
held pursuant to this act be in favor of the said county of Berkeley becoming part of the State of West Virginia, then shall the
said county become part of the State of West Virginia when admitted into the same with the consent of the legislature thereof.
6. This act shall be in force from its passage.
Then followed, four days later, on the 4th of February of
the same year, 1863, an act relating to the admission of
several other counties, including Jefferson, thus:
An Act giving consent to the admission of certain counties into the new State
of West Virginia upon certain conditions.

1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia, That at the
general election on the fourth Thursday of May, 1863, it shall
be lawful for the voters of the district composed of the counties
of Tazewell, Bland, Giles, and Craig to declare, by their votes,
whether said counties shall be annexed to, and become a part
of, the new State of West Virginia; also, at the same time, the
district composed of the counties of Buchanan, Wise, Russell,
Scott, and Lee, to declare, by their votes, whether the counties

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

47

Statement of the case.

of the said last-named district shall be annexed to, and become
a part of, the State of West Virginia; also, at the same -time,
the district composed of the counties of Alleghany, Bath, and
IHighland, to declare, by their votes, whether the counties of
such last-named district shall be annexed to, and become a part
of, the State of West Virginia; also, at the same time, the district composed of the counties of Frederick and Jefferson, or
either of them, to declare by their votes whether the counties of
the said last-named district shall be annexed to, and become a
part of, the State of West Virginia; also, at the same time, the
district composed of the counties of Clarke, Loudoun, Fairfax,
Alexandria, and Prince William, to declare, by their votes,
whether the counties of the said last-named district shall be annexed to, and become a part of, the State of West Virginia;
also, at the same time, the district composed of the counties of
Shenandoah, Warren, Page, and Rockingham, to declare, by
their votes, whether the counties of the said last-named district
shall be annexed to, and become a part of, the State of West
Virginia; and for that purpose there shall be a poll opened at
each place of voting in each of said districts, headed "For annexation," and "Against ahnexation." And the consent of this
General Assembly is hereby given for the annexation to the said
State of West Virginia of such of said districts, or of either of
them, as a majority of the votes so polled in each district may
determine; provided that the legislature of the State of West
Virginia shall also consent and agree to the said annexation,
after which all jurisdiction of the State of Virginia over the districts so annexed shall cease.
2. It shall be the duty of the governor of the Commonwealth to
ascertain and certify the result as other elections are certified.
3. In the event the state of the country will not permit, or
from any cause, said election for annexation cannot be fairly
held on the day aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the governor
of this Commonwealth, as soon as such election can be safely
and fairly held, and a full and free expression of the opinion
of the people had thereon, to issue his proclamation ordering
such election for the purpose afbresaid, and certify the result as
aforesaid.
4. This act shall be in-force from its passage.
Under these two acts elections of some sort were held

VIRGINIA V.

'WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and the governor certified the same to the State of 'West
Virginia, and that State thereupon extended her jurisdiction
over the counties of Berkeley and Jefferson, and still maintained it.
Next came an act of the State of Virginia, passed December 5th, 1865:
An Act to repeal the second section of an act passed on the 13th day of
May, 1862, entitled An act giving the consent of the legislature of Virginia
to the formation and erection of a new State within the jurisdiction of this
State; also, repealing the act passed on the 31st day of January, 1863, entitled An act giving the consent of the State of Virginia to the county of
Berkeley being admitted into, and becoming part of, the State of West Virginia; also, repealing the act passed on the 4th day of February, 1863, entitled An act giving consent to the admission of certain counties into the
new State of West Virginia, upon certain conditions, and withdrawing consent to the transfer of jurisdiction over the several counties in each of said
acts mentioned.

Whereas, It sufficiently appears that the conditions prescribed
in the several acts of the General Assembly of the restored government of Virginia, intended to give consent to the transfer,
from this State to the State of West Virginia, of jurisdiction
over the counties of Jefferson and Berkeley, and the several other
counties mentioned in the act of February 4th, 1863, hereinafter recited, have not been complied with; and the consent of
Congress, as required by the Constitution of the United States,
not having been obtained in order to give effect to such transfer,
so that the proceedings heretofore had on this subject are simply
inchoate, and said consent may properly be withdrawn; and this
General Assembly, regarding the contemplated disintegration
of the Commonwealth, even if within its constitutional competency, as liable to many objections of the gravest character, not
only in respect to the counties of Jefferson and Berkeley, over
which the State of West Virginia has prematurely attempted to
exercise jurisdiction, but also as to the several other counties
above referred to:
1. Be it therefore enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia,
That the second section of the act passed on the 13th day of
lMay, 1862, entitled An act giving the consent of the legislature
of Virginia to the formation and erection of a new State within
the jurisdiction of this State be, and the same is hereby, repealed.

Dec.

1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.
Statement of the case.

2. That the act passed on the 81st day of January, 1863, entitled An act giving the consent of the State of Virginia to the
county of Berkeley being admitted into and becoming part of
the State of West Virginia, be, and the same is, in like manner,
hereby repealed.
3. That the act passed February 4th, 1863, entitled An act
giving consent to the admission of certain counties into the
new State of West Virginia upon certain conditions, be, and the
same is, in like manner, hereby repealed.
4. That all consent in any manner heretofore given, or intended to be given, by the General Assembly of Virginia to the
transfer, from its jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the State of
West Virginia, of any of the counties mentioned in either of the
above-recited acts, be, and the same is hereby, withdrawn; and
all acts, ordinances, and resolutions heret9fore passed purporting to give such consent are hereby repealed.
5. This act shall be in force from and after the passage
thereof.
On the 10th of Mlarch, 1866,* Congress passed a
Joint Resolution giving the consent of Congress to the tran7ferof the Cbunties
of Berkeley and Jefferson to the State of West Virginia.

Be it resolved, &c., That Congress hereby recognizes the transfer of the counties of Berkeley and Jefferson from the State of
Virginia to West Virginia and consents thereto.
In this state of things, the Commonwealth of Virginia
brought her bill in equity against the State of West Virginia in this court on the ground of its original jurisdiction
of controversies between States under the Constitution, in
which it was alleged that such a controversy had arisen between those States in regard to their boundary, and especially as to the question whether the counties of Berkeley
and Jefferson had become part of the State of West Virginia
or were part of and within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Virginia; and the prayer of the bill was that it
might be established by the decree of this court that those
14 Stat. at Large, 350.
VOL. XI.

4

VIRGINIA V.

WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Cq:.

Statement of the case.

counties were part of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and
that the boundary line between the two States should be
ascertained, established, and made certain, so as to include
the counties mentioned as part of the territory and within
the jurisdiction of the State of Virginia.
The stating part of the bill was largely composed of the
substance of four acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth, already presented at large, in the statement,
copies of them being made exhibits and filed with the bill.
The bill, in addition to the substance of these statutes,
alleged that no action whatever was had or taken under the
second section of the act of 1862,* but that afterwards the
State of West Virginia was admitted into the Union, under
an act of Congress and proclamation of the President, without including either the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson, or
Frederick.
It further alleged that an attempt was made to take the
vote in the counties of Jefferson and Berkeley at the time
mentioned in the acts of January 31st, and February 4th,
1863,t but that, owing- to the state of the country at that
time, no fair vote could be taken; that no polls were opened
at any considerable number of the voting places; that the
vote taken was not a fair and full expression; all of which was
well known to the persons who procured the certificate of
such election. It also alleged that it having been falsely and
fraudulently suggested, and falsely and untruly made. to appear to
the governor of the Commonwealth, that a large majority of the
votes was given in favor of annexation, he certified the same
to the State of West Virginia, and that thereupon, without
the consent of Congress, that State extended her jurisdiction
over the said counties of Berkeley and Jefferson, and over
the inhabitants thereof, and still maintained the same.
The State of Virginia, of course, in coming before this
court with this case, relied upon that clause of the Federal
Constitution which ordains that " no State shall, without the
assent of Congress, enter into any agreement or compact with
*Supra , p. 43.

t Supra, pp. 45, 47.

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. "WEST VIRGINIA.

51

Argument for Virginia.

ftny other State," and that one also which ordains that "the
judicial power shall extend

. .

to controversies between

two or more States."
To the bill thus filed the State of West Virginia appeared
and put in a general demurrer. It was not denied that
West Virginia had from the beginning continued her assent
to receive these two counties.
The case was elaborately argued at December Term, 1866,
by Messrs. B. B. Curtis and A. .Bunter,in support of the bill,
and by Messrs. B. Stanton and Beverdy Johnson, in support of
the demurrer; and again at this term by Mr. Taylor, AttorneyGeneral of Virginia, Messrs. B. R. Curtis, and A. Hunter, on
the former side, and Messrs. B. Stanton, C. J. Faulkner, and
Beverdy Johnson, contra.
In support of the bill it was argued, among other things,
that a State was incapable under the Constitution of making
any contract with another State; that States might negotiate with each other, might express a mutual willingness to
do the same thing, but that this was all ; that Congress by
the act of 1862, assenting to the admission of a State composed of but forty-eight counties; had not given its assent to
a State having in it the counties of Berkeley and Jefferson;
that Cougress had never assented to the admission of those
counties until its joint resolution of 1866; that previous to
that time Virginia had withdrawn, as she had a right to do,
her once offered assent to what Congress could alone complete; that the transfer could exist only by the concurrent
assent of all these parties; that therefore no transfer bad
been made by the joint resolution. Even if this were not so,
and if fair elections under the acts of 1863 would be suffi.cient, the allegations of the bill as to the character of the
elections relied on-allegations of partial and fraudulent.
elections-whieh allegations on a demurrer were to be taken
as true-concluded the matter; for if no elections had ever
taken place, then even the condition upon which as between
the two States the counties were to pass to West Virginia,
had never taken effect.

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIAGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for West Virginia.

In support of the demurrer the principal points were, that
although this court had jurisdiction over "controversies between two States," it was only over controversies in which
some question in its nature judicial was involved. This
court could not settle a controversy of arms, or force, such
as came near arising between Ohio and Mlichigan, on the
matter of their boundary; nor would it settle a political one.
Georgia v. Stanton* decided that. Now, the main question
here involved was the political jurisdiction over two counties, and their inhabitants. There was no land that Virginia
claims as her individual land. The question then was a
political question; one for Congress. Of the disputed questions of boundary which had arisen in this country, Congress
had settled most.t In the few cases, where this court had
acted, including the case of Rhode Island v. Jfassaehusetts,t
where there was an old colonial" agreement of 1710, there
had always been some proper subject of judicial action involved; a question of the specific performance of contract, a
question of property, or the like. Even in the great English
case of Penn v. Lord Baltimore, A. D. 1750,§ before Lord
Rardwicke, to settle the lines between Delaware and Maryland, there was an agreement for settling the boundary; a
proper head of equitable jurisdiction. The dicta and much
of the argument of Baldwin, J., who gave the opinion in the
Rhode Island case, were unnecessary to thejudgment. Other
cases have followed that.
In reply to the other side it was contended that the boundary, as contemplated both by the State of Virginia and the
proposed State, was not confined to the limits specifically
stated, but was capable of being opened, to the extent provided for, by the two bodies; that this capacity was inherent
in the State as constituted; that Congress in 1862 received
the State with this capacity; that the right of voting was
subsequently exercised by the two counties under the Virginia acts of 1863; that the condition thus became executed,
and the two counties transferred to the State of West Vir* 6 Wallace, 50.
+ 12 Peters, 724.

1

8 Stat. at Large, 751, title, Boundary, in Index.
I Vesey, 444.

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST

VIRGINIA.

53

Opinion of the court.

ginia; that.the .court could not go behind the official returns
of the vote; and, finally, that the purpose of one of the
clauses of the Constitution, relied on in the argument of
the other side, was not to prevent the States from settling

their own boundaries so far as merely affected their relations
to each other, but to guard against the derangement of their
Federal relations with the other States of the Union, and
the Federal government, which might be injuriously affected
if the contracting parties might act upon their boundaries
at pleasure; and that in this case the boundary having been

settled by themselves, between Virginia and the new body
to which she was in 1862 assisting to give existence, Virginia
could not subsequently revoke her assent against the wish
of the other party.
Mr. Justice 'MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first proposition on which counsel insist, in support
of the demurrer is, that this court has no jurisdiction of the
case, because it involves the consideration of questions purely
political; that is to say, that the main question to be decided
is the conflicting claims of the two States to the exercise of
political jurisdictioii and sovereignty over the territory and
inhabitants of the two counties which are the subject of
dispute..
This proposition cannot be sustained without reversing
the settled course of decision in this court and overturning
the principles on which several well-considered cases have
been decided. Without entering into the argument by
which those decisions are supported, we shall content ourselves with showing what is the established.doctrine of the
court.
In the case of _Rhode Island v. Massacluselts,* this question was raised, and Chief Justice Taney dissented from
the judgment of the court by which the jurisdiction was
affirmed, on the precise ground taken here. The subject is
elaborately discussed in the opinion of the court, delivered
* 12 Peters, 724.

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by Mr. Justice Baldwin, and the jurisdiction, we think, satisfactorily sustained. That case, in all important features, was
like this. It involved a question of boundary and of the
jurisdiction of the States over the territory and people of
the disputed region. The bill of Rhode Island denied that
she had ever consented to a line run by certain commissioners. The plea of Massachusetts averred that she had
consented. A question of fraudulent representation in obtaining certain action of the State of Rhode Island was also
made in the pleadings.
It is said in' that opinion that, "title, jurisdiction, sovereignty, are (therefore) dependent questions, necessarily settled when boun'dary is ascertained, which being the line of
territory, is the line of power over it, so that great as questions of jurisdiction and sovereignty may be, they depend
on facts." And it is held that as the court has jurisdiction
of the question of boundary, the fact that its decision on
that subject settles the territorial limits of the jurisdiction
of the States, does not defeat the jurisdiction of the court.
The next reported case, is that of Missouri v. Iowa,* in
which the complaint is, that the State of Missouri is unjustly
ousted of her jurisdiction, and obstructed from governing a
part of her territory on her northern boundary, about ten
miles wide, by the State of Iowa, which exercises such jurisdiction, contrary to the rights of the State of Missouri, and
in defiance of her authority. Although the jurisdictional
question is thus broadly stated, no objection on this point
was raised, and the opinion which settled the line in dispute,
delivered by Judge Catron, declares that it was the unanimous opinion of all the judges of the court. The Chief
Justice must, therefore, have abandoned his dissenting doctrine in the previous case.
That this is so is made still more clear by the opinion of
the court delivered by himself in the case of Florida v.
Georgia,t in which he says that "it is settled, by repeated
decisions, that a question of boundary between States, is
* 7 Howard, 660.

-t 17 Id. 478.

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

55

Opinion of the court.

within the jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution on this
court." A subsequent expression in that opinion shows
that he understood this as including the political question,
for he says "that a question of boundary between States is
necessarily a political question to be settled by compact
made by the political departments of the government ...
But under our form of government a boundary between two
States may become a judicial question to be decided by this
court."
In the subsequent case of Alabama v. Georgia,* all the
judges concurred, and no question of the jurisdiction was
raised.
We consider, therefore, the established doctrine of this
court to be, that it has jurisdiction of questions of boundary
between two States of this Union, and that this jurisdiction
is not defeated, because in deciding that question it becomes
necessary .to examine into and construe compacts or agreements between those States, or because the decree which
the court may render, afhects the territorial limits of the political jurisdiction and sovereignty of the States which are
parties to the proceeding.
In the further consideration of the question raised by the
demurrer we shall proceed upon the ground, which we shall
not stop to defend, that the right of West Virginia to jurisdiction over the counties in question, can only be maintained
by a valid agreement between the two States on that subject, and that to the validity of such an agreement, the consent of Congress is essential. And we do not deem it
necessary in this discussion to inquire whether such an agreement may possess a certain binding force between the States
that are parties to it, for any purpose, before such consent is
obtained.
As there seems to be no question, then, that the State of
West Virginia, fi'om the time she first proposed, in the constitution under which she became a State, to receive these
* 23 Howard, 505.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

counties, has ever since adhered to, and continued her assent
to that proposition, three questions remain to be considered.
1. Did the State of Virginia ever give a consent to this
proposition which became obligatory on her?
2. Did the Congress give such consent as rendered the
agreement valid ?
3. If both these are answered affirmatively, it may be
necessary to inquire whether the circumstances alleged in
this bill, authorized Virginia to withdraw her consent, and"
justify us in setting aside the contract, and restoring the
two counties to that State.
To determine these questions it will be necessary to examine into the history of the creation of the State of West Virginia, so tr as this is to be learned from legislation, of which
we can take judicial notice.
The first step in this matter was taken by the organic
convention of the State of Virginia, which in 1861 reorganized that State, and formed for it what was known as the
Pierpont government-an organization which was recognized by the President and by Congress as the State of
Virginia, and which passed the four statutes set forth as exhibits in the bill of complainant. This convention passed
an ordinance, August 30, 1861, calling a convention of delegates from certain designated counties of the State of Virginia to form a constitution for a new State to be called.
Kanawha.
The third section of that ordinance provides that the convention when assembled may change the boundaries of the
new State as described in the first section, so as to incltde the
"counties of Greenbrier and Pocahontas, or either of them,
and also the counties of Hampshire, Hardy, Morgan, Berkeley, and Jefferson, or either of them," if the said counties,
or either of them, shall declare their wish, by a majority of
votes given, and shall elect delegates to the said convention.
It is thus seen that in the very first step to organize the new
State, the old State of Virginia recognized the peculiar condition of the two counties now in question, and provided that
either of them should become part of the new State upon the

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

57

Opinion of the court.

majority of. the votes polled being found to be in favor of
that proposition.
The convention authorized by this ordinance assembled
in Wheeling, November 26, 1861. It does not appear that
either Berkeley or Jefferson was represented, but it framed
a constitution which, after naming the counties composing
the-new State in the first section of the first article, provided,
by the second section, that if a majority of the votes cast at
an election to be held for that purpose in the district composed of the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson, and Frederick,
should be in favor of adopting the constitution, they should
form a part of the State of West Virginia. That constitution also provided for representation of these counties in the
Senate and House of Delegates if they elected to become a
part of the new State, and that they should in that event
constitute the eleventh judicial district. A distinct section
also declares, in general terms, that additional territory may

be admitted into and become part of the State with the consent of the legislature.
The schedule of this constitution arranged for its submission to a vote of the people on the first Thursday in April,
1862.
This vote was taken and the constitution ratified by the
people; but it does not appear that either of the three counties of Jefferson, Berkeley, and Frederick, took any vote at
that thne.
Next in order of this legislative history is the act of the
Virginia legislature of May 13, 1862, passed shortly after
the vote above mentioned had been taken.* This act gives
the consent of the State of Virginia to the formation of the
State of West Virginia out of certain counties named under
the provisions set ibrth in its constitution, and by its second
section it is declared that the consent of the legislature of Virginia is also given that the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson,
and Frederick, shall be included in said State "whenever the
voters of said counties shall ratify and assent to said consti* Supra, p. 42.

VIRGINIA

V.

WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

tution, at an election held for that purpose, at such time and
under such regulations as the commissioners named in the
said schedule may prescribe."
This act was directed to be sent to the senators and representatives of Virginia in Congress, with instructions to obtain the consent of Congress to the admission of the State
of West Virginia into the Union.
Accordingly on the 31st of December, 1862, Congress
acted on these matters, and reciting the proceedings of the
Convention of West Virginia, and that both that convention and the legislature of the State of Virginia had requested that the new State should be admitted into the
Union, it passed an act for the admission of said State, with
certain provisions not material to our purpose.
Let us pause a moment and consider what is the fair and
reasonable inference to be drawn from the actions of the
State of Virginia, the Convention of West Virginia, and the
Congress of the United States in regard to these counties.
The State of Virginia, in the ordinance which originated
the formation of the new State, recognized something peculiar in the condition of these two counties, and some others:
It gave them the option of sending delegates to the constitutional convention, and gave that convention the option to
receive them. For some reason not developed in the legislative history of the matter these counties took no action on
the subject. The convention, willing to accept them, and
hoping they might still express their wish to dome in, made
provision in the new constitution that they might do so, and
for their place in the legislative bodies, and in the judicial
system, and inserted a general proposition for accession of
territory to the new State. The State of Virginia, in expressing her satisfaction with the new State and its constitution, and her consent to its formation, by a special section,
refers again to the counties of Berkeley, Jefferson, and
Frederick, and enacts that whenever they shall, by a majority vote, assent to the constitution of the new State, they
may become part thereof; and the legislature sends this
statute to Congress with a request that it will admit the new

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the court.

State into the Union. Now,'we have here, on two different
occasions, the emphatic legislative proposition of Virginia
that these counties might become part of West Virginia;
and we have the constitution of West Virginia agreeing to
accept them and providing for their place in the new-born
State. There was one condition, however, imposed by Virginia to her parting with them, and one condition made by
West Virginia to her receiving them, and that was the same,
namely, the assent of the majority of the votes of the counties to the transfer.
It seems to us that here was an agreement between the
old State and the new that these counties should become
part of the latter, subject to that condition alone. Up to
this time no vote had been taken in these counties; probably
none could be taken. under auy but a hostile government.
At all events, the bill alleges tha.t none was taken on the
proposition of Mlay, 1862, of the Virginia legislature. If
an agreement means the mutual consent of the parties to a
given proposition, this was an agreement between these
States fbr the transfer of these counties on the condition
named. The condition was one which could be ascertained
or carried out at any time; and this was clearly the idea of
Virginia when she declared that whenever the voters of said
counties should ratify and consent to the constitution they
sliould become part of the State; and her subsequent legislation making special provision for taking the vote on this
subject, as shown by the acts of'January 81st and February
4th, 1863, is in perfect accord with this idea, and shows her
good Iith in carrying into effect the agreement.
2. But did Congress consent to this agreement?
Unless it can be shown that the consent of Congress,
under that clause of the Constitution which forbids agreements between States without it, can only be given in the
form of an express and formal statement of every proposition of the agreement, and of its consent thereto, we must
hold that the consent of that body was given to this agreement.

VIRGINIA V.

WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

The attention of Congress was called to the subject by the
very short statute of the State of Virginia requesting the
admission of the new State into the Union, consisting of but
three sectiohs, ' one of which was entirely devoted to giving
consent that these two counties and the county of Frederick
might accompany the others, if they desired to do so. The
constitution of the new State was literally cumbered with
the various provisions for receiving these counties if they
chose to come, and in two or three forms express consent is
there given to this addition to the State. The subject of the
relation of these counties to the others, as set forth in the
ordinance for calling the convention, in the constitution
framed by that convention, and in the act of the Virginia
legislature, must have received the attentive consideration
of Congress. To hold otherwise is to suppose that the act
for the admission of the new State passed without any due
or serious consideration. But the substance of this act
clearly repels any such inference; for it is seen that the constitution of the new State was, in one particular at least,
unacceptable to Congress, and the act only admits the State
into the Union when that feature shall be changed by the
popular vote. If any other part of the constitution had
failed to meet the approbation of Congress, especially so important a part as the proposition for a future change of
boundary between the new and the old State, it is reasonable to suppose that its dissent would have been expressed
in some shape, especially as the refusal to permit those
counties to attach themselves to the new State would not
have endangered its formation and admission without them.
It is, therefore, an inference clear and satisfactory that
Congress by that statute, intended to consent to the admission of the State with the contingent boundaries provided
for in its constitution and in the statute of Virginia, which
prayed for its admission on those terms, and that in so doing
it necessarily consented to the agreement of those States on
that subject.
* Supra, p. 42.

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the court.

There was then a valid agreement between the two States
consented to by Congress, which agreement made the accession of these counties dependent on the result of a popular
vote in favor of that proposition.
3.But the Commonwealth of Virginia insists that no such
vote was ever given; and we must inquire whether the facts
alleged in the bill are such -as to require an issue to be made
on that question by the answer of the defendant.
The bill alleges the failure of the counties to take any
action under the act of May, 1862, and that on the 31st of
January and the 4th of February thereafter the two other
acts we have mentioned were passed to enable such vote to
be taken. These statutes provide very minutely for the
taking of this vote under the authority of the State of Vir-

ginia; and, among other things, it is enacted that the governor shall ascertain the result, and, if he shall be of opinion
that said vote has been opened and held and the result
ascertained and certified pursuant to law, he shall certify
that result under the seal of the State to the governor of
West Virginia; and if a majority of the votes given at the
polls were in favor of the proposition, then the counties became part of said State. He was also authorized to postpolie the time of voting if he should be of opinion that a
fair vote could not be taken on the day mentioned in these
acts.
Though this language is taken mainly from the statute
which refers to Berkeley County, we consider the legal effect
of the other statute to be the same.
These statutes were in no way essential to evidence the
consent of Virginia to the original agreement, but were intended by her legislature to provide the means of ascertaining the wishes of the voters of these counties, that being
the condition of the agreement on which the transfer of the
counties depended.
The State thus showed her good faith to that agreement,
and undertook in her own way and by her own officers to
ascertain the fact in question.

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The legislature might have required the vote to have been
reported to it, and assumed the duty of ascertaining and
making known the result to West Virginia; but it delegated
that power to the governor. It invested him with full discretion as to the time when the vote should be taken, and
made his opinion and his decision conclusive as to the result. The vote was taken under these statutes, and certified
to the governor. He was of opinion that the result was in
favor of the transfer. He certified this fact under the seal
of the State to the State of West Virginia, and the legislature of that State immediately assumed jurisdiction over the
two counties, provided for their admission, and they have
been a part of that State ever since.
Do the allegations of the bill authorize us to go behind all
this and inquire as to what took place at this voting? To
inquire how many votes were actually cast? How many of
the men who had once been voters in these counties were
then in the rebel army ? Or had been there and were thus
disfranchised? For all these and many more embarrassing
questions must arise if the defendant is required to take
issue on the allegations of the bill on this subject.
These allegations are indefivite and vague in this regard.
It is charged that no fair vote was taken; but no act of unfairness is alleged. That no opportunity was afforded for a
fair vote. That the governor was misled and deceived by
the fraud of those who made him believe so. This is the
substance of what is alleged. No one is charged specifically
with the fraud. No particular act of fraud is stated. The
governor is impliedly said to have acted in good faith. No
charge of any kind of moral or legal wrong is made against
the defendant, the State of West Virginia.
But, waiving these defects in the bill, we are of opinion
that the action of the governor is conclusive of the vote as
between the States of Virginia and West Virginia. He was
in legal effect the State of Virginia in this matter. In addition to his position as executive head of the State, the legislature delegated to him all its own power in the premises.
It vested him with large control as to the time of taking the

Dec. 1870.]

VIRGInIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

63

Opinion of Davis, Clifford and Field, JJ., dissenting.

vote, and it made his olinion of the result the condition of
final action. It rested of its own accord the whole question
on his judgment and in his hands. In a matter where that
action was to be the foundation on which another sovereign
State w"as to act-a matter which involved the delicate question of permanent boundary between the States and jurisdiction over a large population-a matter in which she took
into her own hands the ascertainment of the fact on which
these important propositions were by contract made to depend, she must be. bound by what she has done. She can
have no right, years after all this has been settled, to come
into a court of chancery to charge that her own conduct has
been a wrong and a fraud; that her own subordinate agents
have misled her governor, and that her solemn act transferring these counties shall be set aside, against the will of the
State of West Virginia, and without consulting the wishes
of the people of those counties.
This view of the subject renders it unnecessary to inquire
into the effect of the act of 1865 withdrawing the consent
of the State of Virginia, or the adt of Congress of 1866
giving consent, after the attempt of that State to withdraw
hers.
The demurrer to the bill is therefore sustained, and the
BILL MUST BE DISMISSED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS, with whom concurred CLIFFORD
and FIELD, JJ., dissenting.
Being unable to agree with the majority of the court in
its judgment in this case, I will briefly state the grounds of
my dissent.
There is no difference of opinion between us inrelation to
the construction of the provision of the Constitution which
affects the question at issue. We all agree that until the
consent of Congress is given, there can be no valid compact
or agreement between States. And that, although the point
of time when Congress may give its consent is not material,
yet, when it is given, there must be a reciprocal and concurrent consent of the three parties to the contract. Without

VIRGINIA V. WEST VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Davis, Clifford and Field, JJ., dissenting.

this, it is not a completed compact. If, therefore, Virginia
withdrew its assent before the consent of Congress was given,
there was no compact within the meaning of the Constitution.
To my mind nothing is clearer, than that Congress never
did undertake to give its consent to the transfer of Berkeley
and Jefferson counties to the State of West Virginia until
March 2, 1866. If so, the consent came too late, because
the legislature of Virginia had, on the fifth day of December,
1865, withdrawn its assent to the proposed cession of these
two counties. This withdrawal was in ample time, as it was
before the proposal of the State had become operative as a
concluded compact, and the bill (in my judgment) shows
that Virginia had sufficient reasons for recalling its proposition to part with the territory embraced within these
counties.
But, it is maintained in the opinion of the court that Congress did give its consent to the transfer of these counties by
Virginia to West Virginia, when it admitted West Virginia
into the Union. The argument of the opinion is, that Congress, by admitting the new State, gave its assent to that
provision of the new c6nstitution which looked to the acquisition of these counties, and that if the people of these
counties have since voted to become part of the State of
West Virginia, this action is within the consent of Congress.
I most respectfully submit that the facts of the case (about
which there is no dispute), do not justify the argument which
is attempted to be drawn from them.
The second section of the first article of the constitution
of West Virginia was merely a proposal addressed to the
people of two distinct districts, on which they were invited
to act. The people of one district (Pendleton, Hardy, Hampshire, and Morgan) accepted the proposal. The people of
the other district (Jefferson, Berkeley, and Frederick) rejected it.
In this state of things, the first district became a part of
the new State, so far as its constitution' could make it so,
and the legislature of Virginia included it in its assent, and

Dec. 1870.]

MORGAN
0

v.

THORNHILL.

Statement of the case.

Congress included it in its admission to the Union. But
neither the constitution of West Virginia, nor the assent of
the legislature of Virginia, nor the consent of Congress, had
any application whatever to the second district. For though
the second section of the first article of the new constitution
had proposed to include it, the proposal was accompanied
with conditions which were not complied with; and when
that constitution was presented to Congress for approval, the
proposal had already been rejected, and had no significance
or effect whatever.

MORGAN v. THORNHILL.
No appeal lies to this court from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States, exercising the supervisory jurisdiction conferred upon it by the
second section of the Bankrupt Act of 2d March, 1867.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court
from the District of Louisiana; the case being this:
"An act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy
throughout the United States," approved March 2, 1867,*
and which gives to the District Couris exclusive original
jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy, authorizes them to
declare corporations bankrupt upon certain proceedings had.
By the 2d section of the act it is enacted:

"That the several Circuit Courts of the United States, within
and for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall
be pending, shall have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions.arisingunder this act, ind except
when special provision is otherwise made, may upon bill,petition,
or other process of any party aggrieved, hear and determine the
case as a court of equity. The powers and duties hereby granted
may be exercised either by said court or by any justice thereof,
in term time or in vacation."
* 14 Stat. at Large, 518.
vOL. XI.

5

