Dec. 1870.]

GENERES v. CAMPBELL.
Statement of the case.

GENERES V. CAMPBELL.
1. The act of 8d March, 1865, providing for a trial without a jury, and a
review by this court of the facts found by the judge, either generally or
specially, by a sufficient bill of exceptions, is general in its terms, and
embraces the State of Louisiana.
2. Though the statute of Wesqtminster requires bills of exceptions to be*
sealed, yet as neither an act of Congress nor rule of court has made this
requirement here, it is sufficient if the bill be signed by the j udge.
8. When the bill of exceptions does not purport to set forth all the evidence
on either of the subjects to which the exception relates, and the judgment states that it was rendered for "reasons orally assigned," and
these are not found in the -record, there is nothing on which error can
be assigned, and the judgment must be affirmed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
Campbell sued Generes, November, 1868, in the court
below, as indorser of a promissory note, given as the price.
of certain slaves, and executed, at New Orleans April 4, 1861,
payable in that city two years after date, at the office of
Abat, Generes & Co.
The petition averred that when the note became due,
April 7th, 1863, there was a civil war existing in Louisiana
and other States of the Union; that all intercourse between
New Orleans and the place of the then residence of the plaintiff, to wit, the parish of St. Helena, was interrupted and
prohibited; that the petitioner was unable to make the presentment and demand of the note at the place of payment
by reason of the existing war and the prohibition and interruption of intercourse thereby created; that the petitioner
could not come from said parish; that this condition continued until the month of June, 1865; that immediately after
its cessation the petitioner came to New Orleans and demanded payment of the note; and that the defendant had
due notice of all of the foregoing circumstances.
The defences were, that the defendant was not liable as
indorser, from want of protest and notice of protest; that
the note was extinguished by prescription; that being given
for a purchase of slaves, it could not now give rise to an
VOL. XI.

13

GENERES V. CAMPBELL.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

action. Evidence was taken by both parties. The case was
tried by the court under the act of March 3, 1865. This act
provides that the finding of the court upon the facts-which
finding may be either general or special-shall have the
same effect as the verdict of a jury; that the rulings of the
court in the progress of the cause may be reviewed by this
court, when properly presented by a bill of exceptions, and
that where the finding is special this review may extend to
the sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment.
"For reasons orally assigned by the court," it was adjudged that the defendant's plea of prescription be overruled, and that there be judgment in fhvor of the plaintiff
for the sum of $6300.
The defendant filed a bill of exceptions thus:
Be it known, that on the trial of this cause the counsel for
defendant argued as follows, viz.:
The evidence shows that thd plaintiff was doing business in
New Orleans, and the note sued upon was dated at New Orleans,
April 4th, 1861, payable at the counting-house of Abat, Generes
& Co., in New Orleans, two years after its date, to the order of
and inidorsed by the defendant. The suit was brought on the
18th November, 1868, and the petition alleges that at the maturity of the note, to wit, the 7th April, 1863, there was a civil
war existing in Louisiana and other States of the Union, and
that all intercourse between New Orleans and the place of the
then residence of the plaintiff, viz., the parish of St. Helena, in
Louisiana, was interrupted, and that the petitioner was wholly
unable to make a presentment and demand of said note. But
the evidence shows that said plaintiff left New Orleans in the
fall of 1861; he was doing business here; was a regular negrotrader in the city of New Orleans; had obtained possession of
the note sued on, and in the course of his business; when, in the
fall of 1861, the city of New Orleans being then besieged by the
Federal fleet, the plaintiff closed, his business and went to his
summer residence on the line of the New Orleans and Jackson
Railroad, in the parish of St. Helena. The said counsel argued,
upon this statement of facts, that the impossibility to make a
presentment of the note at its maturity was not what was

Dec. 1870.]

GENERES V. CAMPBELL.

Statement of the case.

termed by the law vis major, but a matter entirely of plaintiff's
own seeking. Thb plaintiff, being shown to have spontaneously
so circumstanced himself as to bring upon him the alleged impossibility to act at the maturity of the note, is not entitled to
the favor of the doctrine contra non valentem, &e. Furthermore,
the said counsel argued, that long before the maturity of said
note New Orleans was in possession of the government, and, invirtue of the President's proclamation inviting all loyal citizens
to return, the plaintiff might have been here attending to his
business, if he thought proper. It is shown by the evidence
that the road from the plaintiff's house, in St. Helena, to the
city of Baton Rouge, was only about fifty miles; that there were
a great many people who made it a trade, throughout the duration of the war, to travel between Baton Rouge and the plantations on the river coast, to and from the Jackson railroad
stations. A witness says, and he is not contradicted, "I can't
say when Baton Rouge was occupied by the Federals, but I
believe it was in 1862. The communications between Baton
Rouge and the stations on the Jackson railroad were very frequent." Said counsel urged that, as the plaintiff had gone into
the lines of the opposite side, he might have returned, and consequently the alleged vws major had no existence in fact.
But the court overruled the pleas of prescription and of want
of protest urged by the defendant.
The said counsel furthermore urged that the plaintiff failed to
make a presentment and a protest of the note so soon as freedom of action had been resumed throughout the country. It is
in proof that the plaintiff returned to New Orleans in the summer of 1865, to wit, on the 12th of June, 1865, which, was about
two years and two months after his note had matured. No
protest from that time was ever made. The present suit was
filed on the 18th of November, 1868. The said counsel argued,
that under the circumstances shown, even if there had been
hithcrto a room for the plea of vis major, there was a clear
)aches in not protesting in reasonable time.
But this plea was likewise overruled by the court.
The said counsel argued, that under the provisions of the Civil
Code of Louisiana, viz., art. 3420,-3487, 2512,3488, et seg., that the
rule contra non valentern will not apply except in cases expressly
mentioned, and that these exceptions do not apply to the present cause.

GENERES V. CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument against the jurisdiction.

But this plea was likewise overruled by the court.
And lastly, the said counsel argued that the consideration of
the note was proved in the evidence to be for slaves sold to the
maker, and was therefore illegal. The testimony on this point
is as follows: "The note, the whole of it, was given to Campbell
for a purchase of slaves by my brother from him. Campbell, at
that time, was a slave-dealer in New Orleans. H~e was a regular
slave-dealer, and had his depot on Baronne Street, in New .Orleans, and was engaged in that business for several years."
The said counsel argued that such actions could not be held
upon general principles, and particularly were prohibited by art.
128 of the constitution of Louisiana, as follows: "Contracts for
the sale of persons are null and void, and shall not be enforced
by the courts of this State."
But this plea was also overruled by the court.
To all which rulings the counsel for said defendant respectfully excepts, and presents this his bill of exceptions for the signature of his honor the judge.
Signed,
R. H. DURELLT, Judge.
The reader will observe that this bill, though signed, was
not sealed.
.Messrs. J. A. and .D. G. Campbell, prior to arguing the
matter of merits, objected to the bill of dxceptions as not
sealed. In Pomeroy's Lessee v. .Bank of Indiana,*Clifford, J.,
delivering the opinion of the court, is very learned and emphatic on this point. He says:
"Bills of exception in the Federal courts are required to be
drawn as at the common law under the statute of Westminster
II; and; of course, they must be sealed by the judge as therein required. Justiciariiapponant sigilla sua, is the express command
of the statute; and so is the commentary of Lord Coke."
Independent of which the frame of the bill, they argued,
-was defective. There was no statement of facts nor proper
presentation of the questions at issue.

Mr. Louis Janin, contra, stated, as respected the matter of
a seal, that in his very long professional practice in the
* 1 Wallace, 599.

Dec. 1870.]

GENERES V. CAMPBELL.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion of the court.

State of Louisiana he had rarely if ever seen on a bill of
exceptions the signature of the judge accompanied by one

of those scratches of the pen that by courtesy are called
"seals;" a meaningless matter in the law of Louisiana, or of
the other civil law countries. What was said in Pomeroy's
.Lessee v. Bank of Indiana was dictum.
He submitted that the record presented a good enough
bill of exceptions. It combined a concise and clear statement of the facts with a clear explanation of the points of
law which the counsel desired the court to rule. If in a few
words it differed from the usual style employed in such
documents, that might be attributed to the circumstance
that English was probably not the mother tongue of the
counsel who drew it up. But its meaning cannot be misunderstood. It had the substantial merit of bringing the whole
case, both the facts and the law, before the court. Even the
statement of fact in the bill of exceptions commenced with
the words; "It is in evidence, or in proof."
The counsel on both sides then argued the merits of the
case, and especially the question of the right to enforce by
suit notes kiven on the sale of slaves prior to emancipation,
Mr. P. Phillips,counsel in another case involving this point,
being heard along with the Messrs. Campbell in support of
the right.
Mr. Justice SWAYKE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to, the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana. The plaintiff in error
was the defendant in the court below. The action was
brought against him as the indorser of a promissory note.
The parties, pursuant to the act of Congress of March 3d,
1865, filed a written stipulation waiving 'a jury, and the
cause was tried by the court. A judgment was rendered
against the defendant. He took a bill of exceptions. No
facts were specially found by the court.
The act referred to provides that the finding of the court
upon the facts-which finding may be either general or
special-shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury;

GENERES V. CAMPBELL.

(Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

that the rulings of the court in the progress of the cause
may be reviewed by this court, when properly presented by
a bill of exceptions, and that where the finding is special
this review may extend to the sufficiency of the facts found
to support the judgment. This act is general in its terms
as to the scope of its operation, and embraces the Distridt
of Louisiana.
There being no special finding of the facts, the inquiry
as to their sufficiency to support the judgment does not
arise.
Our examination of the case must be confined to the bill
of exceptions.
It is objected that this instrument was not scaled, as well
as signed, by the judge. The statute of Westminster prescribes a seal, but no act of Congress and no rule of this
court contains such a requirement. Though usual in the
practice of the courts of the United States, it is not necessary. The signature of the judge is sufficient.
It does not appear that the defendant objected to any of
the testimoity which was admitted. No question relating
to the subject is presented for our consideration.
It is shown by the bill of exceptions that sundry legal
propositions were argued by the counsel of Generes and
were overruled by the court. The entire bill is a series of
interlocutions between the counsel and the court, in which
the evidence is referred to; but the bill does hot purport to
give all the evidence upon either of the subjects to which
the exceptions relate.
In the entry of the judgment it is stated that it is given
"for reasons orally assigned by the court." What those
reasons were is not set forth. Whether they were that
there was other evidence besides that referred to in the bill
of exceptions, or that the court drew different conclusions
from those deduced by the counsel, or that the court entertained different legal views from those upon which the
counsel insisted, is not disclosed. Had the facts been specially found no such doubt could have existed. The case

Dec. 1870.]

CASE v. TERRELL.
Syllabus.

would then have presented clearly all the propositions to
which the attention of the court below was callea1, and in
relation to which it is insisted errors were committed.
For any error in relation to the facts a writ of error is not
the proper remedy. If all the testimony given were set out
in*the record we could not examine it with the view of determining whether it is sufficient to support the judgment.*
If sufficient, the remedy was a motion for a new trial, or by
having the facts specially found. In the latter case a writ
of error would lie to correct the wrong, if any were done.
According to the statute the finding of the court stands as
would the general verdict of a jury, and has the same effect.
The plaintiff in error is in the same position as if he were
here complaining that the jury erred in overruling the points
and propositions which were argued to them in his behalf,
and had found for the plaintiff when they should have found
for the defendant. The evidence was closed, and the court
was sitting in place of a jury when his exceptions were taken.
We are all of opinion that the propositions upon which
the plaintiff in error insists are not so presented that we
can take cognizance of them.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CASE V. TERRELL.
1. No judgment for the payment of money can be rendered against the
United States in any court other than the Court of Claims without a
special act of Congress conferring jurisdiction.
2. A receiver of a National bank, whose operations have been suspended by
the Comptroller of the Currency for causes specified in the National
Currency Act, in no sense represents the government, and cannot sub.
ject it to the jurisdiction of the courts.
3. Nor can the Comptroller of the Currency, though he be sued himself and
submit to it, subject the government to the jurisdiction of the ordinary
courts to determine the conflicting claims of the United States and other
creditors in the funds of such a bank.
* Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 1.

