MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The judgment of the District Court is REVERSED, and the
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court with directions
to proceed in it
IN CONFORMITY TO LAW.

MILLER V. UNITEb STATES.
1. In a judicial proceeding to confiscate stocks in a railroad company under
the acts of Congress of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, the person
whose property has been seized, may sue out a writ of error though not
a claimant in the court below. (Hc Veigh v. United States, supra, 259,
affirmed.)
2. Seizure of such stocks may be made by giving notice of seizure to the
president or vice-president of the railroad company; and a seizure
thus made by the marshal in obedience to a warrant and monition is
sufficient to give the District Court jurisdiction.
3. Stocks and credits are attachable in admiralty and revenue cases by
means of the simple service of a notice, without the aid of any statute.
4. In admiralty and revenue cases when a default has been duly entered to
a monition founded on an information averring all the facts necessary
to a condemnation, it has substantially the effect of a default to a summons in a court of common law. It establishes the fact pleaded, and
justifies a decree of condemnation.
5. Where a court having jurisdiction of the case and of the parties enters
a judgment, there is a presumption that all the facts necessary to warrant the judgment have been found, if they are sufficiently averred in
the pleadings.
6. A trial by jury in cases of seizure upon land is not necessary when there
are no is.sues of fact to be determined.
7. The confiscation acts of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, are constitutional. Excepting the first four sections of the latter act they are
an exercise of the war powers of the government, and not an exercise
of its sovereignty or municipal power. Consequently they are not in
conflict with the restrictions of the 6th and 6th amendments of the Constitution.
8. In the war of the rebellion the United States had belligerent as well as
sovereign rights. They had, therefore, a right to confiscate the property of public enemies wherever found, and also a right to punish
offences against their sovereignty.
9. The right of confiscation exists as fully in case of a civil war, as it does
when the war is foreign; and rebels in arms against the lawful government or persons inhabiting the territory exclusively within the
control of the rebel belligerent, may be treated as public enemies. So

Dec. 1870.]

D1. LLER

V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.
may adherents, or aiders and abettors of'such a belligerent, though not
resident in such enemy's territory.
10. It is within the power of Congress to determine what property of public
enemies shall be confiscated; and the fact that by the statutes of 1861
and 1862, only the property of certain classes of enemies is directed to
be seized and confiscated, does not show that they were intended to be
an exercise of mere municipal power rather than an exerticn of belligerent rights.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan.
This was a proceeding begun originally in the District
Court for the district just named, to forfeit certain personal
property belonging to one Samuel Miller, now deceased, in
his lifetime, under the act of Congress of August 6th, 1861,
entitled "An act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes ;"*and the act of July 17th, 1862, entitled
"An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and
for other purposes."t
The act of August 6th, 1861, provides that during the
then existing or any future insurrection against the government of the United States, after the President shall have
declared by his proclamation that the laws of the United
States are opposed, and the execution thereof is obstructed by
combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary
course of j .dicial proceedings, or by the power vested in the
marshals by law, property of any kind, purchased or acquired,
sold or given, with intent to use or employ the same, or to
sufir the same to be used or employed in aiding, abetting,
or promoting such insurrection; and also any property which
the owners shall knowingly use or employ, or consent to be
used or employed for that purpose, shall be lawful subjects
of capture and prize wherever found; and that it shall be
the duty of the President to cause the same to be seized,
confiscated, and condemned.
* The act of July 17th, 1862, contains fourteen sections.
The first prescribes the punishment for treason; punish.
*12

Star. at :Large, 319.

f Ib. 589.

MILLER V. 'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ing it with death, or in the discretion of the court with imprisonment and fine, and liberating the offender's slaves.
The second provides for the punishment of the offence of
inciting, setting on foot, or engaging in any rebellion or insurrection against the authority of the United States or the
laws thereof, or engaging in or giving aid and comfort to
the rebellion then existing.
The third declares that parties guilty of either of the
offences thus described, shall be forever incapable and disqualified to hold any office under the United States.
The fourth provides that the act shall not affect the prosecution, conviction, or punishment of persons guilty of treason
before the passage of the act, unless such persons are convicted under the act itself.
The fifth section enacts:
"That to insure the speedy termination of the present rebellion, it shall be the duty of the President of the United States
to cause the seizure of all the estate and property, money,
stocks, credits, and effects of the persons hereinafter named in
this section, and, to apply and use the same, and the proceeds
thereof, for the support of the army of the United States, that
is to say:
"First. Of any person hereafter a~ting as an officer of the
army or navy of the rebels, in arms against the government of
the United States.
"Secondly. Of any person hereafter acting as President, VicePresident, member of Congress, judge of any court, cabinet
officer, foreign minister, commissioner, or consul of the so-called
Confederate States of America.
" Tirdly. Of any person acting as governor of a State, member of a convention or legislature, or judge of any court of any
of the so.called Confederate States of America.
".Fourthly. Of any person -who having held an office of honor,
trust, or profit in the United States, shall hereafter hold an office
in the so-called Confederate States of America.
" Fifthly. Of any person hereafter holding any office or agency
under the government of the so-called Confederate States of
America, or under any of the several States of the said Confederacy, or the laws thereof, whether such office or agency be

Dec. 1870.]

c ILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

national, state, or municipal in its name or character: Provided,
That the persons, thirdly, fourthly, and fifthly, above described,
shall have accepted their appointment or election since the date
of the pretended ordinance of secession of the State, or shall have
taken an oath of allegiance to, or to support the constitution of
the so-called Confederate States.
1"Sixthly. Of any person who, owning property in any loyalState or Territory of the United States, or in the District of
Columbia, shall hereafter assist and give aid and comfort to such
rebellion; and all sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such
property, shall be null and void; and it shall be a sufficient bar
to any suit brought by such person for the possession or the use
of such property, or any of it, to allege and prove that he is one
of the persons described in this section."
The 6th section makes it the duty of the President to
seize and use as aforesaid all the estate, property, moneys,
stocks, and credits of persons within any State or Territory
of the United States, other than those named in the 5th section, who, being engaged in armed rebellion, or aiding and
abetting the same, shall not, within sixty days after public
warning and proclamation duly made by the President of
the United States, cease to aid, countenance, and abet such
rebellion, and return to their allegiance to the United States.
The 7th section provides:
-

"That to secure the condemnation and sale of any of such
property, after the same shall have been seized, so that it may
be made available for the purpose aforesaid, proceedings in rem
shall be instituted in the name of the United States in any District Court thereof, or in any Territorial court, or in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia, within which
the property above described, or any part thereof, may be found,
or into which the same, if movable, may first be brought, which
proceedings shall conform, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in
admiralty or revenue cases, and if said property, whether real or
personal, shall be found to have belonged to a person engaged in
rebellion, or who has given aid or comfort thereto, the same
shall be condemned as eneemy's property, and become the property of the United States, and may be disposed of as the court

MILLER V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

shall decroe, and the proceeds thereof paid into the treasury of
the United States, for the purposes aforesaid."
The 8th section authorizes the said courts to make such
orders, and establish such forms of decrees of sale, and direct
such deeds and conveyances to be executed, where real estate
shall be the subject of sale, as shall fitly and efficiently effect
the purposes of the act, and vest in the purchasers of the
property good and valid titles.
The 9th, 10th, and 11th sections relate to slaves. They
declare that all slaves of persons engaged in rebellion against
the government of the United States. or who should in any
way give aid and comfort thereto, escaping within our lines,
or captured from such persons, or deserted by them, should
be deemed captives of war, and fbrever free; that escaping
slaves of such owners should not be delivered up, and that
no person engaged in the military or naval service should,
under any pretence whatever, surrender slaves to claimants.
They provide also for the employment of persons of African
descent in the suppression of the rebellion.
The 13th section authorizes the President, at any time
thereafter, by proclamation, to extend to persons who may
have participated in the existing rebellion, pardon and amnesty, with such exceptions, and at such time and on such
conditions, as he may deem expedient.
The 14th section gives the courts aforesaid full power to
institute proceedings, make orders and decrees, issue process,
and do all other things to carry the act into effect.
Whilst this act of July 17th, 1862, was pending before the
President for consideration, it was understood that he was
of opinion that it was unconstitutional in some particulars,
and that he intended to veto it. His objections having been
communicated to members of the House of Representatives,
where the act originated, a joint resolution explanatory of
the act was introduced and passed by that body, to obviate
his objections, which were that the act disregarded the Constitution, which, while ordaining that the Congress shall
have power to declare the punishment of treason, ordains

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

also* that "no attainder of treason shall work corruption of
blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person attainted." This latter clause was considered by the President as a restriction upon the power of Congress to prescribe
as a punishment for treason the forfeiture of the real property
of the offhnder beyond his natural life. The Senate being
also informed of the objections of the President, concurred
in the resolution. It was then sent to the President, and
was received by him before the expiration of the ten days
allowed him for its consideration. He returned the act and
resolution together to the House, with a message, in which
he stated that considering the act, and the resolution explanatory of the act as substantially one, he had approved
and signed both. He stated also that he had prepared the
draft of a message stating his objections to the act becoming
a law, a copy of which draft he transmitted. The following
is a copy of the joint resolution:t
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States, in Congress assembled, That the provisions of the

third clause of the fifth section of 'An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate
the property of rebels, and for other purposes,' shall be so construed aq not to apply to any act or acts done prior to the
passage thereof; nor to include any member of a State legislature, or judge of any State court, who has not, in accepting or
entering upon his office, taken an oath to support the constitution of the so-called Confederate States of America; nor shall any
punishment or proceedings under said act be so construed as to
work a forfeiture of the real estate of the offender beyond his.
natural life."
t In order to carry out these acts of August 6th, 1861, and
July 17th, 1862, the President charged the Attorney-General
with the superintendence and direction of all proceedings
under them, and authorized and required him to give to the
:listrict attorneys and marshals sueh instructions and direct 12 Stat. at Large, 627.

* Article III.
VOL. X I.

18

274

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tions as he might find needful and convenient, touching all
seizures, proceedings, and condemnations under them. Accordingly, on the 8th of January, 1863, the Attorney-General
issued general instructions on the subject to district attorneys and marshals. Among these instructions the following were given with regard to the seizure of property:
"All seizures will be made by the marshal of the proper district, under written authority to be given him by the district
attorney, specifying with reasonable certainty the property to
be seized, and the owner whose right is sought to be confiscated.
"When the marshal has seized any property under such
authority, he will, without any unnecessary delay, make a true
return thereof in writing to the district attorney.
"Where the State law directs the method of seizure, it should
be conformed to as nearly as may be consistently with the
objects of the acts of Congress. If the thing to be seized be
personal property, it ought to be actually seized and safely kept;
if real estate, the marshal ought to seize all the right, title, interest, and estate of the accused party, giving notice in writing
of the seizure to the tenants in possession, if any; if stocks or
other intangibleproperty, the marshal ought (if there be no specfic
method prescribed by the State law) to describe the property as plainly
as he can in his return, and leave the court to determine the sufficiency
of the seizure."
On the 24th of November, 1863, the District Attorney
for tte Eastern District of Michigan issued the following
order to the marshal of that district:
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAk.

DETROIT, November 24, 1863.

To CHARLES DICKEY, ESQ.,
Marshal of the United States for Eastern District of Michigan.

You are hereby directed, under and by virtue of the acts of
Congress of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, commonly
-alled the Confiscation Acts, to seize all those 200 shares of
common stock in the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana
Railroad Company, a corporation created under and by virtue

Dec. 1870.']

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

of the laws of the State of Michigan, and represented by one
certificate for 50 shares, numbered 2767, and dated January
8th, 1861, and by one certificate for 150 shares, numbered 3678,
and dated May 25th, 1861. And all that stock in the Detroit,
Monroe, and Toledo Railroad Company, a corporation created
under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Michigan, to wit:
Stock certificate, No. 118, dated March 5th, 1857, for 100 shares.
Stock certificate, No. 120, dated March 12th, 1857, for 100 shares.

Stock certificate, No. 129, dated
Stock certificate, No. 187, dated
Stock certificate, No. 193, dated
Total,

April 7th, 1857, for 100 shares.
for 20 shares.
Sept. 1st, 1860,
for 23 shares.
Nov. 1st, 1860,
.343
shares.

Making in all 200 shares common stock of Michigan Southern
and Northern Indiana Railroad Company; and 348 shares stock
Detroit, Monroe and Toledo Railroad Company; and all bonds
and the coupons thereto attached, issued by said companies;
and all dividends declared by said companies; and all interest
and other moneys due upon said stock, bonds, coupons, and
dividends belonging to Samuel Miller, of the county of Amherst, in the State of Virginia. And you are further ordered
to leave a copy of the said seizure, certified by you, with the
clerk, treasurer, or cashier of the companies, if there be any such
officer; and if not, then with any officer or person who has at
the time the custody of the books and papers of the corporations, and to require a certificate of the amount of interest held
by said Miller in said coupons. And you are futher directed to
make true return to me, in writing, of your doings under this
order.
ALFRED RUSSELL,
United States District Attorney, Eastern District of Michigan.

On the 6th of February, 1864, the marshal returned to the
district attorney that he had seized the shares, bonds, and
coupons attached, pursuant to his direction, stating the shares
and the dates of the certificates as in the order of the district attorney. And he concluded his return as follows:
"I do further return, that I seized said stock by serving a notice of said seizure personally upon XW. L. Sykes, Jr., Trice-President
of the .fichigan Southern and Northern Indiana RailroadCompany,

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and President of the .Detroit,.Monroe and Toledo Railroad Cornpany.'
By a stipulation of counsel, the instructions of the Attorney-General, the order of the district attorney to the marshal, and the return of the marshal, were made part of the
record in the cause.
On the 27th of February, 1864, the district attorney filed
a libel of infQrnation in the District Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan, against the property. This libel stated
that the district attorney prosecuted the proceeding on behalf of the United States and of the informer subsequently
mentioned-one Browning-against 200 shares of common
stock in the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad Company; and 343 shares of the Detroit, INlonroe and
Toledo Railroad Company; and all bonds and coupons attached (describing them as in the order of the district attorney to the marshal); "the same being the property of Samuel
Miller, of Virginia, a rebel citizen, and inhabitant of the
United States, who, being the owner of said property, has
knowingly used and employed, and has consented to the use
and employment of the same, in aiding, abetting, and promoting the existing insurrection against the government of
the United States; and-who, owning property in a loyal
State, has assisted and given aid and comfort to the present
rebellion against the authority of the United States."
The libel then proceeded to allege:
"1st. That the marshal seized the property on the 5th of
February, 1864.
"2d. That on the 16th of August, 1861, the President by
his proclamation declared that insurrection existed in the
States of Virginia, INorth Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas; that during the said insurrection,
after the President had declared by proclamation that the
laws of the United States were opposed, and the execution
-thereof obstructed by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or
by the power vested in the marshals by law; and after August 6th, 1861, the said Samuel Miller purchased and acquired

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

the said stocks, and the same were sold and given to him,
with intent to use and employ the same, and to suffer the
same to be used and employed in aiding, abetting, and
promoting such insurrection; and that being owner of the
said 'roperty, he did knowingly use and employ, and did
knowingly consent to the use and employment of the
same in aiding, and abetting, and promoting the said insurrection.
The libel then proceeded to state, that in November, 1868,
one Browning, residing in the city of New York, filed with
the district attorney information .concerning the property
and the facts above described, and in consequence the proceedings were for the use of such informer and the United
States, in equal parts.
The libel then proceeded to make the following charges
against Miller.
1st. That at various times Since July 17th, 1862, he had
acted as an officer of the army, and also as an officer of the
navy of the rebels, in arms against the government of the
United States.
2d. That since that period he had acted as a member of
Congress, also as a judge of a court, and also as a commissioner of the so-called Confederate States of America.
8d. That at various times since that period he had acted
as a member of a convention, and also as a member of the
legislature, and also as a judge of a court of the State of Virginia, and also of other States of the so-called Confederate
States.
4th. That'at various times since that period, having previously held an office of honor, trust, and profit in the United
States, lie had held an office in the Confederate States.
5th. That at various times since that period he had held
offices and agencies under the government of the Confederate States, and under the State of Virginia, and under other
State of the confederacy.
6th. That at various times since that period he had given
aid and comfort to the rebellion, by procuring persons to
enlist and join the army of the rebels, and by inducing others

MILLER V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statemnent of the case.

to assist in arming, equipping, transporting, and maintaining such recruits.
The libel then further alleged the issue of a proclamation
by the President, July 25th, 1862, warning all persons to
cease participating in the rebellion, and to return to their
allegiance to the United States; and that Miller being engaged in armed rebellion against the government, and in
aiding and abetting it, did not within sixty days after the
proclamation cease to give aid and countenance to the rebellion, and return to his allegiance.
It alleged further that the property was situated within
the jurisdiction of the court, and that the libellants were
entitled to have it condemned, as confiscated and forfeited
to the United States, and concluded with a prayer for the
usual process and monition; and that a decree of condemnation be made of the property to be disposed of to the use
of the informer and the United States in equal parts.
Upon this libel process of the court was issued, directed
to the marshal, commanding him "to hold the said stockthe same having been by you duly seized," until the further
order of the court touching the same; and directing him to
publish citation to all persons interested in a newspaper in
Detroit.
On the 5thof April, 1864, the marshal returned the process, with his indorsement thus:
"I hereby certify, and return, that I have seized and now hold
all the property described in the within writ, and now hold the
same subject to the future order of the said court, and have
given notice to all persons interested therein, by publication, as
required in the within writ."
There was no personal service upon Miller nor on any
one professing to represent him. No one appeared on his
behalf, or in defence of the proceeding. On the 5th of
April, 1864, on the day of the return by the marshal of the
warrant, after the default of all persons had been entered,
and after reading the proof which had been taken on the

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

part of the United States, a decree was entered condemning
and forfeiting the property to the United States; the record
not showing, however, b, decree that the libel be taken .pro
confesso. By the decree a sale was ordered, and the two corporations were directed to cancel the old certificates of stock,
and issue new certificates to the purchasers at such sale. It
was also decreed, that after the payment of costs, the proceeds of the sale should be divided between the United
States and the informer.
The proof produced at the hearing, consisted of an ex
pare deposition of one Thatcher, taken in New York. This
deposition was thus:
"I reside in New York city. I know Samuel Miller; he resides
three and a half miles south of Lynchburg, in the State of Virginia.
I do not know of any agent or attorney that be has in the city
of New York; nor do I believe that he has any in the Northern
States. I saw him about the 1st of July, 1863, at hishome near
Lynchburg, Virginia. I had a conversation with him there at
that time. ie told me that he was the owner of about $169,000
registered Indiana State bonds. He also said no interest had
been paid on them since the 1st day of January, 1862, and when
interest was demanded of the agent in New York he declined
to pay it, saying the bonds and interest had by the acts of Congress been forfeited to the government of the United States.
He also said to me, in that conversation, that he approved of
the acts of the Confederate government, and that their ultimate
success was as certain as it was for the sun to rise in the morning, although the saciifices he knew would be great, and that he
would be very willing to bear the sacrifices with them; and that
be was then giving one-tenth of all his income for the support
of the army of the Confederate government, and was also contributing, independently of the foregoing, a large amount to
support the wives and children of the soldiers in arms, and other
contributions of almost daily occurrence that were needed to
keep matters moving.

He said he was giving as much for the

wives and children of the soldiers as all the rest of the county
put togther."
Subsequently, application was made to the District Court

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Slp. Ct.

Argument against the confiscation.

to open the decree upon affidavits, which it was asserted
showed the loyalty of Miller, but the District Court denied
the application; and on error to the Circuit Court the decree was affirmed. The case was brought to this court on
writ of error to the Circuit Court.
Messrs. W. P. Wells and S. T. -Douglass,for the plaintiff in
emrror :
I. The district attorney, undertaking to proceed in conformity to the method of procedure in revenue cases, directed a seizure to be made before the libel was filed.
What was this seizure? Nothing in the return.to the
writ of error shows. The warrant and return do show,
however, that the seizure relied upon by the government
was a seizure made before the filing of the libel, and, by
stipulation, the facts -concerning the seizure are placed before the court, and constitute part of the record. We thus
get, and only thus, the instructions of the Attorney-General;
the written directions given by the district attorney to the
marshal, and the return made by the marshal to the district
attorney. The general instructions of the Attorney-General,
given in respect to proceedings under the confiscation acts,
are detailed and explicit. The district attorney undertook
to proceed under them. He gave a written direction, November 25tb, 1863, to the marshal, to seize the stocks in
question. In obedience to this direction, the marshal performed the acts which are called a seizure, and made a return 6f what he had done. That return shows that the only
seizure was a notice to the president of one road where
Miller's stock was and to the vice-president of another. No
other act of seizure was performed. Was this sufficient?
1. In admiralty or revenue proceedings in ren seizure is
necessary to give the court jurisdiction. The res must be
actually or constructively within the possession of the court.*
Therm must be an arrest of it,t a taking of possession and
* Benedict's Admiralty Practice,

434.

t" Betts's Admiralty Practice, p. 32; 'Admiralty Rule 29 of Supreme
Court.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the confiseation.

an exercise of control over the thing seized.

This pbsses-

sion must be actual, open, and visible. The persons in previous possession must be dispossessed and unable longer to
exercise dominion over the property. There is no such
thing knowu to the law as constructive possession, or typical
possession, in a proceeding in rern.* The reason of this is
obvious. It is in order to-preserve the principle of notice
to the party whose property is to be affected, which is a fundamental requisite to the validity of judicial proceedings.t
Now, in this case the property, unlike the sorts of property usually seized in revenue proceedings, and which are
capable of actual possession, was intangible. No actual
seizure of it could be made by the marshal. Stocks can
only be seized and made the subject of legal process by express statutory provisions) which prescribe something which
shall be equivalent to the seizure of other kinds of property.$
In the absence of any statutory method of seizure prescribed
in these acts of Congress, stocks therefore cannot be seized,
although expressly mentioned in one of the acts. Any law
which provides for their condemnation in a judicial proceedin- should prescribe a method of seizure. If the law makes
no such provision the essential requisites of a revenue
seizure cannot be preserved. And there is a casus omissus
in the statute. This view is supported by reference to the
instructions of the Attdrney-General. He directs that stocks
shall be seized according to the methods prescribed in the
State laws. But in Michigan there is no law which authorizes the taking of stocks on mesne process. They may be
taken on final process, but not in the way pursued in this
case.ยง
Such so-called seizure as was made here would preserve
* The Brig Ann, 9 Cranch, 289, 291; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 599;
The Silver Spring, 1 Sprague, 551.
t Mankin v. Chandler, 2 Brockenbrough, 127; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch,
277; The Mary, 9 Id. 144.
Haley v. Reid, 16 Georgia, 437; United States v. 1756 Shares of Stock, 5

Blatchford, 231.
J 2 Compiled Laws of Michigan, 1213, 1214.

MILLEt V7.UTNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the-confiscation.

no principle of notice. The notice by publication, which is,
presumptively, likely to reach persons who have an interest
in the property, and a right to appear and defend such proceedings, was in this case nugatory. The person whose
property was proceeded against was in al insurgent State.
Any communication to him of the published notice would
have been illegal. If the requisite of notice to the owner is
to be presumed, then the presumption must arise from the
seizure. In respect to property which can be the subject of
actual possession, the presumption is that it is left in charge
of persons who represent the owner. This presumption, in
respect to all kinds of property named in the acts, except
stocks, would be effectual. If any property of these classes
was in the Northern States, it was almost necessarily in
possession of agents who could represent the owner and apTear in his behalf. A seizure must, of necessity, give these
agents notice. But it is otherwise in respect to stocks.
The property being intangible is in charge of no agent.
The evidence of it, the certificates, is presumptively in the
possession of the owner of the stock. The decree here
shows that the certificates were outstanding. Even if the
possession of the certificates by any one in the Northern
States could make him an agent of the owner, there is no
pretence that there was any such possession of the certificates
by an agent. The method in which the marshal sought to
effect seizure shows that no service could be made upon any
one in any legal relation to the real owner.
The officers of a corporation are not the agents of the
stockholder or the custodians of any particular stock. They
may be, in proceedings like this, and as Northern men,
probably in this case were, in hostility to the stockholder.
There is no such legal relation between them and the stockholder as will in any case raise the presumption which arises
in other cases, that the custodian of property seized will appear and defend the owner's interests.
If the seizure, made before the libel was filed, was not a
valid seizure, the court had no jurisdiction. We have seen
that there was no real seizure made under the warrant of

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the confiscation.

arrest. The marshal's return upon the warrant shows only,
in effect, that he held the stocks by him seized theretofore.
But if he had made a seizure upon the warrant, and there
had been no valid seizure before the libel was filed, the
whole case fails.*
I. There was no such hearing and proof in this case as
are necessary to a valid decree, even if the court had power
to hear and determine the case without a jury.
The case is here by writ of error upon the judgment of
the Circuit Court. It was taken to the Circuit Court from
the District Court by writ of error. This is the proper
method of reviewing cases of seizure on land.t
But the rec rd contains the evidence and all the proceedings, like the transcript of an appeal in admiralty. As it is
here, although brought up in a return to a writ of error,
the court will not refuse to consider the evidence. Especially
when, under these acts of Congress, the law officer of the
government, under the power given to make the proceedings conform to admiralty or revenue proceedings, undertakes to proceed, as in this case, partly in conformity to admiralty procedure and partly as in revenue cases, the court
should not hesitate to examine the evidence. The merits
have been considered in a case of this kind;$ and if the
court, considering the evidence and giving the utmost effect
to that in fivor of the governmeilt, finds that there is not
enough to support the decree, it will be reversed.ยง
The decree shows that the counsel for the government
treated the case as one of default.
We say, then, if a valid default was entered there should
have been a hearing, aiid the government should have
proved its case. By the act of 1862, proceedings under it
are to conform as nearly as may be to admiralty and revenue
cases; to admiralty cases where the seizure is on water, to
* The Washington, 4 Blatchford, 101.

t Union Insurance Company v. United States, 6 Wallace, 760; Arm.
strong's Foundry, Ib. 766; United States v. Hart, Ib. 770.
: Union Insurance Company v. United States, 6 Wallace, 760.
:Parsons v. Armor, 3 Peters, 425.

MILLER V. UNITED

TATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the confiscation.

revenue ones where on land. This matter was on land.
Now the act of the 2d March, 1799,* regulates these last. A
hearing after default is provided for there as necessary; for
then, says the act, "the court shall proceed and determine
the cause according to law." The case of The United.Sates
v. The Lion,t decided by Judge Sprague, shows this. If a
hearing was necessary, what should the government have
proved? It should have proved the seizure, and a seizure
made previous to the filing of the libel. The return by the
marshal of a seizure upon the warrant is not sufficient.1
It should have proved some offence under the acts of Congress. The libel sets forth every offence under both acts.
What the government relied upon as ground of condemnation, and undertook to prove, is shown by the deposition of
Thatcher. If it is requisite, in a hearing in admiralty upon
default, that there should be plenary proof, whenever the
circumstances make it reasonable, certainly in this class of
cases, where the party has had no notice and all presumptions of notice fail., the court should have required stronger
proof than was made in this case. In this connection it
may be noticed that while the only proof offered by the
government tended to prove (if it tended to prove anything)
offences under the act of 1862, the form of the decree is as
if the government relied on an offence under the act of
1861. It divides the proceeds with the informer. But full
proof should have been given of whatever offences the government relied upon as grounds of condemnation. There
was nothing but a single ex parte deposition, testifying to a
conversation.

III. As the proceedings related to a seizure on land, the
case is one of common law jurisdiction, and there should
have been a trial by jury. The cases of Union Insurance
Company v. United States, of Armstrong's Foundry, and of the
United States v. Hart,ยง show this.
IV. The acts of Congress in question were enacted in the
*

"t1 Sprague, 399; and see Admiralty Rule, 29.
89.
The Washington, 4 Blatchford, 101; The Silver Spring, 1 Sprague, 551.
6 Wallace, 759, 766, 770.

Dec. 1870.]

]MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Argument against the confiscation.

exercise of the sovereignty of the government over the whole
people of the United States, and not in the exercise of its
rights as a belligerent under the law of nations. They were
not enacted under the war powers of the government, for
these only authorize the confiscation of the property of public
enemies. Hence the acts are not valid, because not in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution, the 5th and
6th amendments to which ordain that no person shall be
held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime
unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury; that
no person shall be deprived of his property without due process of law; and that in all criminal prosecutions the accused
shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall
have been committed. The purpose of the acts was to punish
offences against the sovereignty of the United States. They
are statutes against crime. They prescribe a forfeiture of
the estate of the "offenders," terms strictly applicable only
to punishment for crime. These remarks are specially true
of the act of 1862.
Nor are the provisions of the act for confiscation confined
in their operation to the property of enemies; they are applicable to the property of persons not enemies within the
law of nations.
In addition, under the act of 1862, the property of all
enemies is not made liable to cbnfiscation. Whether persons are within the law depends, thdrefore, not on the fact
of their being enemies, but on their having done or not
done certain overt criminal acts described and defined by

the statute.
V. But if the statutes were passed in pursuance of what
are called the "war powers" of the government, equal difficulty still remains. Although there are no express constitutional restrictions upon the power of Congress to declare
and prosecute war, or to make rules respecting captures
on land and wiater, there are restrictions implied in the nature of the powers themselves. The power to prosecute
war is only a power to prosecute it according to the law of

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the confiscation.

nations, and a power to make rules respecting captures is a
power to make such rules only as are within the laws of nations. These enactments, confiscating, as they do, private
property, are not within the limits of modern and civilized
warfare.
Hr. Akerman, Attorney-General, and Mr. Bristow, SolicitorGeneral, for the United States; Mr. G. F. Edmunds, for the
purchasersof the property sold under the decree:
Miller failed to appear and claim the property when called
on in the District Court, by the usual publication and notice. As a preliminary point, therefore, we submit that he
is not entitled to bring up the record, or to any standing
in this court. The statute providing for the seizure of the
property, in the prosecution of the war, did not proceed
against the property of any particular rebel or enemy, but
against the property of any and all enemies. The suit was
in rem against the property, and not in personam against the
owner. No person is a party to a suit in rem except the
libellant, until there is an appearance and claim put in; and
no owner or person interested is at all bound to make himself a party to any suit. If he does not choose to come forward and incur the risks and responsibilities of claim and
answer, he renounces all interest in the subject of the suit,
and is no more a party to it'than a stranger. Whether or
not he had actual notice is unimportant. It is in law the
same as if he had. No instance can be found before these,
of an appeal or writ of error being brought even, much less
sustained, in a cause in rem, by any person who was not a
claimant in the court below, except under the English act
of 1797,* which was enacted to give persons interested a
right of appeal in prize cases, where they had not appeared
and become parties-a privilege which, without the statute,
they did not possess.
But waiving this point, if the proceedings are not absolutely void, the judgment is conclusive, and if they are void,
* 88 Geo. III, ch. 38,

2.

Dec. 1870.]

D ILLER 2'. UNITED STATES.
Argument in support of the confiscation.

the remedy for persons not before the court as a party is not
by writ of error, but by suit for his property.
Both when the information was filed upon seizure, and
when the condemnation and the sale of the property was
had, a state of war, both in the actual and legal sense, existed
between the United States and the so-called Confederate
States.
The property was within the district where it was seized
and proceeded against. The corporations existed in Michigan alone, and their actual operationswere carried on there.
The stock could be transferred there only, on the books of
the corporation and on surrender of the outstanding certificates.* Even in the case of simple debts, for all purposes
of appropriation to the use of creditors, &c:, the situs of the
property is the residence of the debtor. This has been familiar law from the earliest times to the present. "Garnishment," "foreign attachment," and " trustee process,"
in such cases, have existed in one form or another, almost
as long as any branch of jurisprudence.
The act of July 17th, 1862, acting upon the fact and law
of war in the public sense, in express terms made it the
duty of the executive department of the government to seize
for the use of the nation "all the estate and properly, money,
stocks, credits, and effects, of the persons" enumerated as
among the public enemies of the United States. This language, both comprehensive and specific, necessarily included
the interest of Miller in these corporations. The very word
"stocks," which defines his interest, is used. Within the
principles of public law, such incorporeal interests, in whatever form they may exist, are the proper subjects of confiscation, and for such purposes they are within the jurisdiction and power of the sovereign. If the real source of the
interest or right to the performance of an obligation is
within the territory of the sovereign, it may be cut off and
destroyed.t
United States v. Leroy Wiley's Stock, 5 Blatchford, 281.
t Cooper -. Telfair, 4 Dallas, 14; Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dallas, 199, 224), 226;
Smith v. Maryland, 6 Cranch, 286..

MILLER

v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the confiscation.

The power of the legislative and war-making department
to confiscate the property of enemies cii land cannot be questioned.* And in such cases the same power is "the sole
judge of the exercise of the right, as to the extent, mode, and
manner." The act of 1862 puts this species of property by
name in the category of enemy's property, if owned under the
circumstances stated in the information (and declared in the
prize cases to be a case of war), that is, by a public enemy,
and it requires in such case that it shall be seized and "condemned as enemy's property, and become the property of the United
States." When, therefore, the statute directs a "seizure" of
enemy's property of this description, it cannot be defeated
by the circumstance that the property is not tangible, and so
not capable of manual caption or possession. The seizure
is, in contemplation of law, not only the physical taking of
a visible thing, but it is the taking dominion of and bringing under control the object proceeded against. The evidence of seizure varies according to the nature of the thing.
In the case of intangible things it rests in symbol, or -any
such steps indicating dominion as the thing is capable of.
The seizure itself was, when made at first by the marshal,
in all respects regular and perfect. It was done by serving
a notice on the officers of the corporation. There was no
other mode for said seizure, and it was not less tangible
than the admiralty method of seizing a ship, by posting a
notice on the mast,t or of seizing goods in a warehouse, to
which the officer cannot obtain access, by leaving a copy of
the warrant with the warehousenian.1
But it is of no consequence whether the seizure before
information filed was perfect or not, for then the court took
possession of the property under its order and process, and
notified the fact to the corporation, and brought them under
its jurisdiction by orders upon them. As this property
could be in only one district, the cases holding that there
Brown v. The United States, 8 Cranch, 110; Mrs. Alexander's case, 2
Wallace, 404.
- Williams & Bruce, Admiralty Practice, p. 193.
+ lb. 194. See also Manning, Exch. Pr., pp. 7 and 8.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED SATES.

Argument in support of the confiscation.

must be a prior seizure, in order to test the jurisdiction, do
not apply. But aside from these familiar general principles,
when a valid statute directs a thing intangible to be seized
and proceeded against, it, by necessary intendment, carries
the employment of such means to effectuate the purpose, as
can be adapted to the nature of the case.
The proceedings were in all respects regular, whether the
seizure be regarded either as municipal or belligerent.
_irst. As a municipal seizure, it was just like a revenue or
neutrality case, a proceeding in rem against the property
which was before the court, and the property, and not the
claimant, was the subject of the suit.*
It was a civil cause. On the filing of the information the.
court took control of the property by its officer in the only
way possible: gave notice to all persons to appear in the.
regular course, and, upon default of claimants, decreed confiscation and sale upon evidence of the only fact the plaintiff
in error would have had a right to dispute had he appeared,.
i. e., that he was a public enemy and adhering to the Con-federate States; for, if he did not in due and formal mannerclaim the property as his, he could not have been heard at
all. And he can only be entitled (if at all) to bring this writ
of error upon the assumption that the very property condemned was his, as alleged in the information. He could not,.
had he appeared, have been permitted to dispute the seizure.
against the warrant of the court or the return of the marshal.
The proceedings after condemnation the party has no right
to question, for by the decree itself all his rigt ceased abso-lutely, and the property became finally vested in the United.
States. 'Whether it was disposed of as the statute required,.
was then solely a question between the government and its.
officers. And its disposition was regular.t
Plainly, according to settled principles and practice, notrial by jury was requisite or legally possible in a case in rem
where all claimants made default, and were in contumacy,.
* The Palmyra, 12 Wheaton, 1; La Vengeance, 8 Dallas, 297; The
Sarah, 8 Wheaton, 391.
t Ingritham v. Dawson, 20 Howard, 495.
vOL. X1.

19

MILLER V.

-UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the confiscation.

or left the property derelict. There was no issue of fact
existing, and there could be none without.claims and counter
allegations. The information was confessed by the nonappearance of claimants, and judgment could be at once pronounced upon the facts alleged in the information and appearing on the record. This is the well-known course of
the common law (save sometimes in assessing damages), and
is the universal course in revenue cases, and, with some exceptions, in admiralty.
But if this be an admiralty cause, then writ of error will
not lie.*
And the fact that the notice to Miller and all other claimants was constructive, does not, and cannot change the legal
regularity of any of the proceedings. Constructive notice,
according to the lawful practice of a court, is to all intents
and purposes just as effectual as actual notice. It must be
that or nothing. It is not good or bad, as there may or may
not be ground for belief that it carried actual 4otice to the
claimant. Justice could not be administered on such a principle. The only redress (when there is any) in cases of hardship, is ani appeal to the discretion of the court, to open the
default--not by writ of error.t
Nor can this court, upon a writ of error, which must be
founded upon the record, consider in any case whether there
was too little, or no evidence at all before the court below.1
The evidence in a common law cause never becomes a part
of the record, even if all be in the form of depositions, save
when it is referred to in order to raise questions of competency,
not sufficiency. If a court, in an actual trial, with both parties
before it, should find for the plaintiff, without any evidence,
there would be no redress on error, without a statement
made in the record that such was the fact. But the record
here shows that the court below heard depositions on the
subject. The legal presumption is (even if this court could
review the quantum of the evidence), that they were sufficient.
t The Mary, 9 Cranch, 126.
San Pedro, 2 Wheaton, 182.
Minor v. Tillotson, 2 Howard, 392; N~ew Orleans v. Gaines, 22 Id. 141;
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Id. 427.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Argument in support of the confiscation.

Second. As a belligerent seizre.-This was in all respects a
seizure jure belli, and neither the provisions of the Constitution, nor the rules regulating municipal seizures, have any
intrinsic application to the case. Miller was a public enemy
in law and in fact, residing within the dominion of the hostile party, and, in a legal sense, engaged in levying war
against the United States. Being in this condition, all his
property was subject to seizure and confiscation, as well on
land as sea, not for the breach of any municipal law, but
under the rights of war. But under the rule laid down in
.Brown v. The United States,* the- executive officers of the
government would not be authorized to act without the
direction of the legislative will. Therefore Congress passed
the ace of July, 1862, directing the President to exercise this
right, and directed in express terms that the property seized
should -be "condened as eerny's property," &c. The fact,
therefore, that a statute provided for the confiscation, has
no more.tendency to show that it was a municipal proceedin, than an act of Congress declaring war would. Legislation is only an expression of the sovereign will, and so
the character and effect of ft must depend upon the nature
of the subject upon which it acts, and not upon the fact that
it is embodied into d statute.
The power, then, of Congress over the subject-matter was
complete. It might have proceeded, as Maryland did in the
Revolution, to final confiscation, by the mere force of the
statute, without any other proceedings whatever, or it could
adopt any other process it should choose. And if the fact
of the owner of the property being a public enemy existed,
it clearly would not be competent for him to question the
conformity of the proceedings to the statute. Indeed, the
express provisions of the act make the fact of his hostility
a bar to all litigation on his part. The proceedings and'
judgment in the District Court show Miller's hostile condition, and hence it is of no consequence to inquire whether
the formal steps were in conformity to the statute.
* 8 Cranch, 110.

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But they will stand all fair criticism on that point. There
was the seizure caused by the President through the regular
channel of executive action, the information against the
property seized by the proper officers of the government;
the order and warrant by the court, made thereon, to its
officers to hold the property; the usual notices, according
to the practice of the court, to all persons in interest; the
default; and then the condemnation upon actual evidence
(which was unnecessary), and the final process of execution.
All these steps conformed "as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty and revenue cases," and indeed entirely,
in substance, to such proceedings.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a proceeding under the acts of Congress of
August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, to confiscate shares
of stock in two corporations created by the State of Michigan.
The stock had been seized by the marshal of the district,
acting indirectly under orders of the President of the United
States. The marshal made return to the district attorney
that he had seized it, with all dividends, interest, and moneys
due thereon, specifying in his return the stock-certificates
by which it was represented, and describing the mode of
seizure to have been serving a notice thereof personally
upon the vice-president of one company, and upon the president of the other. An information was then filed in the
District Court, in the nature of a proceeding in rem., against
the stock, averring it to be the property of Samuel Miller,
of Amherst County, Virgina, a rebel citizen and inhabitant
of the United States. The information further averred that
the said Miller was one of the persons described in the several clauses of the 5th section of the act of 1862, and also
that within the States of Virginia and South Carolina, after
the passage of the act, being engaged in armed rebellion
against the government of the United States, and being engaged in aiding and abetting such airmed rebellion, he did
not, within sixty days after the proclamation (mentioned in
the 6th section) had been made by the President, cease to

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

aid, countenance, and abet said rebellion, and did not and
would not return to his allegiance to the United States.
Upon the information thus filed a warrant and monition-were
issued, commanding the marshal to hold the stocks and
property thus described, the same having been by him duly
seized, until the further order of the court touching the
same, aun to give notice, as prescribed, that all persons having any interest in said property, or having anything to say
why the same should not be condemned as enemy's property
and sold, according to the prayer of the libel, might appear
before the court at a time designated therein and make their
allegations in that behalf. To this writ or monition. the
marshal returned as follows: "I hereby certify and return
that I have seized and now hold all the property described
in the within writ" (the stocks aforesaid), "and now hold
the same subject to the future order of said court, and have
given notice to all persons interested therein, by publication,
as required in the within writ." The record then shows
that on the day designated in the monition, after default of
all persons had been duly entered, and after reading the
depositions which had been taken on behalf of the United
States, the shares of stock were condemned as forfeited and
a writ of venditioni exponas was ordered, under which they
were sold. After this Miller applied by petition to the District Court, praying that the decree of condemnation might
be opened and set aside, but the prayer of the petition was
denied. The case was then removed to the Circuit Court
by writ of error, and the decree having been affirmed, the
record has been brought into this court for review. "
We notice at the outset an objection urged against the
competency of the plaintiff in error to sue out the writ
which-brings the case here, on the ground that he was not
a claimant in the District Court, only to say that it is set at
rest by the decision made in Mc Veigh v. United States, a case
decided at this term.*
Assuming, then, that the case is properly in this court,
Supra, 258.

MILLER V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

and that the plaintiff in error has a right to be heard, we
proceed to notice the errors assigned.
The first is, that there was no such seizure of the stocks
as gave the court jurisdiction to condemn them as forfeited,
and to order their.sale.
This was a fatal error, if the fact was as claimed. In
revenue and admiralty cases a seizure is undoubtedly necessary to confer, upon the court jurisdiction over the thing
when the proceeding is in rem. In most such cases the res
is movable personal property, capable of actual manucaption. Unless taken into actual possession by an officer of
the court, it might be eloigned.before a decree of condemnation could be made, and thus the decree would be ineffectual. It might come into the possession of another court,
and thus there might arise a conflict of jurisdiction and decision, if actual seizure and retention of possession were
not necessary to confer jurisdiction over the subject. But
how can it be maintained there was no sufficient seizure in
this case? The record shows one. The marshal returned
to the warrant that he had seized the property, and that he
then held it subject to the further order of the court. Why
is not this conclusive? Can a sheriff's or marshal's return
to a writ be contradicted by a plaintiff in error? It is true
the return did not describe the mode of seizure, but neither
the writ nor the law required that more than the fact should
be stated. The return met all the exigencies of the writ.
It cannot be presumed, in the face of the record, that an
illegal seizure was made, or that some act was done that did
not amount to a seizure. But it is said the warrant with
monition did not require the marshal to seize; that it only
commanded him to hold the stock, the same having been by him
duly seized, until the further order of the court. Whether
this was not an order to seize, as well as to hold after seizure,
we need not determine. Confessedly the object of the writ
was to bring the property under the control of the court and
keep it there, as well as to give notice to the world. These
objects would have been fully accomplished if its direction
had been nothing more than to hold the property subject to

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

the order of the court, and to give notice. The marshal
had already seized the stock, and it remained in his possession. Ali order to seize property already in his hands would
have been superfluous. All that was needed was that, having the property, he should hold it subject to the order of
the court. Thus held by its officer, the jurisdiction was
complete. But the writ was larger. It commanded him to
hold the property, it having been duly seized; and he returned
a seizure. The act of Congress does not require that proceedings in confiscation shall conform precisely to those in
admiralty or revenue cases, but only "as near as may be."
They must be adapted to the peculiarities of the case, following proceedings in admiralty and revenue so nearly as
may be, cdnsistently with the objects Congress had in view.
Yet even in admiralty it cannot be doubted, if a warrant
with a monition should command a marshal to hold goods
already in his possession until the further order of the court
touching the same, and he should return that he had seized
them, and that he held them as required, the jurisdiction of
the court over them would be complete. To hold otherwise
would be to sacrifice the spirit to the letter of form, the substance to the shadow.
It is insisted, however, that inasmuch as the return to the
warrant is silent respecting the mode of seizure, we may
look to the seizure made by the marshal under the executive
order before the information was filed. That was made by
direction of the district attorney, acting under authority of
the President, and.the marshal, in reporting his action, returned that he seized the Stock "by serving a notice of
said seizure personally upon the vice-president of one company, and upon the president of the other." It is assumed
that the judicial seizure made under the judicial warrant
was made in the same way, or that it was the same seizure,
and it is argued that the action of the marshal did not
amount to a seizure effectual to bring the property within
the jurisdiction of the court. The first observation we have
to make in regard to this is, that the plaintiff in error has
no right to make any such assumption. It is justified by

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nothing in the record. True, a seizure under order of the
President was necessary to warrant the institution of judicial proceedings for confiscation, and it may be, therefore, a
proper inquiry whether what the marshal did under the executive order amounted to such a seizure. But the marshal's return to the judicial warrant, and his report to the
district attorney, speak of distinct transactions, occurring at
different times and under different directions. Waiving this,
however, and assuming that the manner of seizure spoken
of in the return to the warrant and monition was the same
as that described in the report to the district attorney, we
are of opinion the seizure was good and effective, sufficient
to give the court jurisdiction over the property.
The act of Congress of July 17, 1862, made it the duty
of the President to cause the seizure of all the estate, property, money, stocks, credits, and effects of the persons described, and in order to secure the condemnation and sale
of such property, after its seizure, directed judicial proceedings, in rem, to be instituted. It contemplated that every
kind of property mentioned could be seized effectually in
some mode. It had in view not only tangible property, but
that which is in action. It named stocks and credits; but it
gave no directions respecting the mode of seizure. It is,
therefore, a fair conclusion that the mode was intended to
be such as is adapted to the nature of the property directed
to be seized, and in use in courts of revenue and admiralty.
The modes of seizure must vary. Lands cannot be seized
as movable chattels may. Actual manucaption cannot be
taken of stocks and credits. But it does not follow from this
that they are incapable of being seized, within the meaning
of the act of Congress. Seizure may be either actual or
constructive. It does not always involve taking into manual
possession. Even in case of chattels movable, taking part
of the goods in a house, under afi.fa., in the name of the
whole, is a good seizure of all.* An assertion of control,
with a present power and intent to exercise it, is sufficient.
* Scott v. Scholey, 8 East, 474.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UTNJITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

We are told there is no statute in Michigan that authorizes
the service of mesne process upon a corporation for the
attachment of its stock. Be it so. That does not show that
stocks cannot be seized or attached when Congress orders a
seizure. Federal officers and Federal courts are not dependent upon State legislation for power to lay hold of
property. Can it be that the government may seize credits
and corporation stocks of public enemies in those States
where provision is made by State legislation for modes of
seizure of such property, but may not seize similar property
of the same enemies in other States where there are no such
statutes? There is, however, such a thing as seizure of
corporation stocks in Michigan on final process, effected by
service of a copy of the writ on an officer of the corporation,
and similar modes of seizure are in use inmost, if not in all,
the States. Garnishment almost everywhere exists. What
is that but substantial attachment? It arrests the property
in the hands of the garnishee, interferes with the owner's
or creditor's control over it, subjects it to the judgment of
the court, and therefore has the effect of a seizure. In all
cases where the garnishee is a debtor, or where the garnishment is of stocks, it is effected by serving notice upon the
debtor, or corporation. A corporation holds its stock, as a
quasi trustee, for its stockholders. The service of an attachment, though it is but a notice, binds the debt or the stock
in the.hands of the garnishee, from the time of the service,
and thenceforward it is potentially in "gremio legi." The
statute declares that proceedings to confiscate shall conform,
as nearly as may be, to proceedings in admiralty or revenue
cases. INow, it is legitimate in certain proceedings in courts
of admiralty to attach credits and effects of such an intangible nature that they cannot be taken into actual possession
by the marshal, and the mode of attachment is by notice,
dependent upon no statutory enactment. See Manro v. Almeida.* In that case, reference was made approvingly to
Clerke's Praxis,t where it appears that it is consistent with
* 10 Wheaton, 492-3.

t By Hall, tit 82, p. 70.

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the practice of the admiralty, in cases where there is no property which the officer can attach by manucaption, to attach
goods or credits in the hands of third persons, by means of
the simple service of a notice. The language of this court was,
that, "as goods and credits, in the hands of a third person,
wherever situated, may be attached by notice, there cannot
be a reason assigned why the goods themselves, if accessible,
should not be actually attached, and although it is very clear
that the process of attaching by notice seems given as the
alternative when the officer cannot have access to the goods
themselves, ye all this may be confided to the discretion of
the judge who orders the process."* These are, indeed proceedings to compel appearance, but they are, nevertheless,
attachments or seizures, bringing the subject seized within
the control of the court, and, what is of primary importance,
they show that, in admiralty practice, rights in action, things
intangible, as stocks and credits, are attached by notice to the
debtor, or holder, without the aid of any statute.
It was in this mode, known to the courts, and dependent
on no statute, that the marshal seized the stock of the plaintiff in error. It is impossible for us to hold that his act was
no sufficient seizure.
A single observation more upon this part of the case. The
eighth and the fourteenth sections of the act of 1862 empowered the courts to make orders and decrees, to issue process, and do all other things necessary to fitly and efficiently
carry out the purposes of the act, which were to seize and
confiscate (interalia) stocks and credits. Under this authority
the court might have made an order, had it been necessary,
prescribing as the mode of seizure precisely what the marshal did. And, if so, it would be difficult to maintain that,
in proceeding to adjudicate upon the stocks, there was not
a recognition of the marshal's action, as a valid seizure,
equivalent to an antecedent order thus to seize. The decree
expressly declared that the stocks had been seized.
* Vide, also, Conklin's Admiralty Practice, 478; Smith v. Miln, Abbott's
Admiralty, 373; and our Admiralty Rules, 2 and 37.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

The second assignment of error is, that there was no 'such
hearing and proof in the case as was necessary to a valid
decree of condemnation. Whether this assignment is well
made must be determined by the record. That shows an
information containing averments of all facts necessary to
warrant a decree of condemnation. It shows a warrant and
monition, return of seizure and publication of notice, and
a decree setting forth that the warrant of confiscation and

monition having been duly made, and the default of all persons having been duly entered, it was thereupon, on motion
of the district attorney, and on reading and filing the depositions taken on behalf of the United States, ordered, sentenced, and decreed by the court that the shares of stock
standing in the name of Samuel Miller on the books of the
companies, and belonging to him, which had been before
seized by the marshal in this proceeding, be condemned as
forfeited to the United States. Thus it appears a default
was duly entered to a monition, founded on an intbrmation
averring all necessary facts; that the decree was entered on
motion, after default, and after reading depositions taken on
behalf of the United States.
But it is insisted the District Court did not find that the
stocks belonged to a person engaged in the rebellion, or who
bad given aid or comfort theretq, which, it is said, are made
necessary findings by the seventh section of the act, before
a decree of condemnation can be entered.
This is not an objection to the jurisdiction of the court.
We have already shown that was complete. It is an objection to the regularity of proceeding, and it assumes that the
record must show affirmatively there was no irregularity.
It presumes, therefore, against the record. The general
rule, however, is, that in courts of record all things are presumed to have been rightly done.* In courts of limited
jurisdiction, indeed, there is a presumption against jurisdiction, but when that appears they are entitled to the same
presumptions in favor of their action as other coni'ts are.
Broome's Legal Maxims, 428.

MILLER V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The district and circuit courts are of limited jurisdiction,
but they are not inferior courts, and they are therefore entitled to the same presumptions in their favor. Those presumptions are that the court, having jurisdiction, and having
entered a judgment, did everything that was necessary to
warrant its entry of the judgment. Undoubtedly the contrary may be shown in a court of error, but the burden of
showing it is upon him who alleges error. The legal intendment is against him. This doctrine is abundantly sustained by the authorities. Thus, in Railroad Company v.
Stimpson,*.which was a patent case, Judge Story said, "It
is a presumption of law that all public officers perform their
official duties until the contrary is proved. And when,"
said he, "an act is to be done, or patent granted, upon evidence and proofs to be laid before a public officer, upon
which he is to decide, the fact that he has done the act, or
granted the patent, is prima facie evidence that the proofs
have been regularly made and were satisfactory. It is not
then necessary for the patent to contain any recitals that the
prerequisites to the grant of it have been duly complied
with, for the law makes the presumption." And in Grignon's Lessee v..Astor,t which related to a proceeding in rem,
and where the order of sale did not set out the facts which,
under the law, must have existed before a sale could be decreed, Mr. Justice Baldwin said, "The record of the county
court shows that there was a petition representing some. facts
by the administrator, who prayed an order of sale; that the
court took those facts which were alleged in the petition into
consideration, 'and for these and divers other good reasons,
ordered that he be empowered to sell. It did then appear
to the court that there were.facts and reasons before them
that brought their power into action, and that it was exercised by granting the prayer of the petitioner, and the decree of the court does not specify the facts and reasons, or
refer to the evidence on which they were made to appear to
the judicial eye; they must have been, and the law presumes
*14 :Peters, 458.

t 2 Howard, 339.

Dec. 1870.]

DMILLER

V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

that they were, such as to justify this action." So in -Erwin
v. Lowry,* Mr. Justice Catron, in delivering the judgment
of the court, said, "We hold that wherever a judgment is
given by a court having jurisdiction of the parties, and of the

subject-matter, the exercise of jurisdiction warrants the presumption, in favor of a purchaser, that the facts, which were
mecessary to be proved to confer jurisdiction, were found."
It is not, however, necessary to invoke the maxim, "omrnia
preumunter rite adz ese," in support of this record. It appears, affirmatively, that all the facts were found or estab'lished which, under the act of Congress, were essential to
justify the judgment. It has been observed the information
set out that the stocks belonged to Samuel Miller, and that
he was a person engaged in the rebellion, who had given
aid or comfort thereto; that monition was duly made, and
that there was default of all persons to appear and claim or
show cause why the property should not be condemned as
enemy's property. The default appears to have been duly
entered. Were this, then, a proceeding according to the
forms of a common law action, the facts averred by the information would be considered as established or confessed,
and everything found necessary for a judgment. The effect
of a default to appear in an admiralty or a revenue proceeding is ordinarily ihe same as in other actions at law. It is
a virtual confession. In Benedict's Admiralty,t the practice
in proceedings in rem is stated to be, if no one appears in response to the proclamation for all persons having anything
to say why the property should not be condemned to come
forward and make their allegations in that behalf, that, on
motion of the libellant's proctor, the defaults are entered,
and a decree of condemnation and sale is made on a brief
statement by the proctor of the cause of action. When the
libellant's claim may not cover the whole value of the propcrty, there is a subsequent hearing to ascertain the amount
to which the libellant is entitled, but the decree of condemnation and sale is entered on the default alone.. So the same
* 7 Howard, 181.

t 2d edition,

452.

MILLER V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

author says,* "In cases of seizure, when no one appears,
the decree of condemnation is absolute, the only question
being whether the property be forfeited or not. In such
cases it is usual for the district attorney, on his motion for
condemnation, to state briefly the substance of the libel and
the cause of forfeiture." In United States v. The Schooner
Lion,t Judge Sprague admitted that in some cases condemnation followed default of necessity without a hearing,
though, in the case then before him, he *heldthat some hearing was necessary, because the act of Congress under which
the forfeiture was then sought (that of fishing vessels for
violations of law in obtaining fishing bounties) provided that
after default the court should proceed to hear and determine
the cause according to law. The act under which these proceedings have been taken makes no such requisition; and
even in United States v. Lion, Judge Sprague said, to what
extent there must be a hearing must depend upon the circumstances of the case. The court, said he, will at least
examine the allegations of the libel to see if they are sufficient in law, and the return of the marshal, and such affidavit
or affidavits as the district attorney shall submit. He added
that a wilful omission by the owners to answer might of
itself satisfy the court that a forfeiture should be decreed.
This, in a case where the statute required a hearing after
default. In the present case, though governed by no such
requirement, the court did examine the depositions, and
then, on motion of the district attorney, condemned the
property. We have said the acts of 1861 and 1862 do not
require any hearing after a default has been duly entered,
as did the actt relative to forfeitures for violations of law
respecting fishing bounties. It has been suggested, however,
the act of 1789 directs that, in admiralty proceedings, there
shall be a hearing after default. But there is no warrant
for the suggestion. The act of 1789 contains no such provision. Neither the 19th section, nor any other part of the
act, can be construed as making any such requirement. No
change is made in the usual course of admiralty proceedings.

* 454.

t- 1 Sprague, 899.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

There is no essential difference between the forms of proceeding or the practice in revenue cases and those in adm
ralty, except where there are disputed facts. The form
are described in Manning's Exchequer Practice.* There
appears that, though generally there is one proclamation to
call in claimants, then an appraisement, and a second proclamation inviting bidders for more than the appraisement,
many condemnations appear in the old records upon a single
proclamation. Default to the first is a default of claimants;
default to the second is a default of bidders.t Throughout
the chapter condemnation by default is treated as in accordance with the practice of the courts in such cases. In
Attorney-General v. Lade,t may be found an entire record of
a revenue proceeding in ren to forfeit gold and silver coin
seized for attempted exportation out of the realm contrary
to acts of Parliament. The record, after reciting the information, seizure, &c., proceeds as follows: "Whereupon,
proclamation being made for his said Majesty, as the custom
is, that if any one would inform the court here why the said
several pieces of gold and silver coin of this realm, and also
the said several pieces of foreign gold coin, should not, for
the reasons aforesaid, remain forfeited, he might come and
he should be heard, and no one appearing to do this, it is
adjudged by the barons here that the said several pieces of
gold and silver coin of this realm, and also the said several
pieces of foreign gold coin, do, for the reasons aforesaid,
remain forfeited." This judgment, on review, was held to
be regular, after the court had ordered precedents to be
searched. It thus appears that in revenue cases, as in admiralty, default entered establishes the facts averred in the libel
or information As effectively as they can be established on
hearing, and warrants a decree of condemnation if the information contains the necessary averments. The second
assignment of error cannot, therefore, be sustained.
The third assignment is,.that as the proceedings related
Vol. i, chap. 1, Information in rem.
: Parker's Reports of Revenue Cases, 57.

t Page 149.

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to seizure on land the case was one of common law jurisdiction, and there should have been a trial by jury; and we
are referred to Union Insurance Company v. United States,*
Armstrong's Foundry,t and other kindred cases. But in this
cause there was a default. After the default there was no
fact to be ascertained. The province of a jury in suits at
common law is to decide issues of fact. When there are no
such issues there can be nothing for a jury to try. This
assignment is, therefore, without merit. None of the cases
cited go further than to hold that issues of fact, on the demand of either party, must be tried by jury.
It remains to consider the objection urged on behalf of the
plaintiff in error that the acts of Congress under which these
proceedings to confiscate the stock have been taken are not
warranted by the Constitution, and that they are in conflict
with someeof its provisions. The objection starts with the
assumption that the purpose of the acts was to punish
offences against the sovereignty of the United States, and
that they are merely statutes against crimes. If this were a
correct assumption, if the act of 1861, and the fifth, sixth,
and seventh sections of the act -ofJuly 17, 1862, were muicipal regulations only, there would be force in the objection
that Congress has disregarded the restrictions of the fifth
and sixth amendments of the Constitution. Those restrictions, so far as material to the argument, are, that no person
shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infimous
crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand
jury; that no person shall be deprived of his property without due process of law, and that in all criminal prosecutions
the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial
by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the
crime shall have been committed. But if the assumption of
the plaintiff in error is not well made, if the statutes were
not enacted under the municipal power of Congress to legislate for the punishment of crimes against the sovereignty of
the United States, if, on the contrary, they are an exercise of
* 6 WYallace, 759.

t

b. 766.

Dec. 1870.]

eILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

the war powers of the government, it is clear they are not
affected by the restrictions imposed by the fifth and sixth
amendments. This we understand to have been concededin
the argument. The question, therefore, is, whether the action
of Congress was a legitimate exercise of the war power. The
Constitution confers upon Congress expressly power to declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make
rules respecting captures on land and water. Upon the
exercise of these powers no restrictions are imposed. Of
course the power to declare war involves the power to prosecute it by all means and in any manner in which war may
be legitimately prosecuted. It therefore includes the right
to seize and confiscate all property of an enemy and to dispose of it at the will of the captor. This is and always has
been an undoubted belligerent right. If there were any
uncertainty respecting the existence of such a right it would
be set at rest by the express grant of power to make rules
respecting captures on land and water. It is argued that
though there are no express constitutional restrictions upon
the power of Congress to declare and prosecute war, or to
make rules respecting captures on land and water, there are
restrictions implied in the nature of the powers themselves.
Hence it is said the power to prosecute war is only a power
to prosecute it according to the law of nations, and a power
to make rules respecting captures is a power to make such
rules only as are within the laws of nations. Whether this
is so or not we do not care to inquire, for it is not necessary
to the present cash. It is sufficient that the right to confiscate the property of all public enemies is a conceded right.
Now, what is that right, aid why is it allowed? It may be
remarked that it has no reference whatever to the personal
guilt of the owner of confiscated property, and the act of
confiscation is not a proceeding against him. The confiscation is not because of crime, but because of the relation of
the property to the opposing belligerent, a relation in which
it has been brought in consequence of its ownership. It is
immaterial to it whether the owner be an alien or a friend,
or even a citizen or subject of the power that attempts to
VOL. XL

20

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appropriate the property.* In either case the property may
be liable to confiscation under the rules of war. It is certainly enough to warrant the exercise of this belligerent right
that the owner be a resident of the enemy's country, no
matter what his nationality. The whole doctrine of confiscation is built upon the foundation that it is an instrument
of coercion, which, by depriving an enemy of property within
reach of his power, whether within his territory or without
it, impairs his ability to resist the confiscating government,
while at the same time it furnishes to that government means
for carrying oh the war. Hence any property which the
enemy can use, either by actual appropriation or by the exercise of control over its owner, or which the adherents of
the enemy have the power of devoting to the enemy's use,
is a proper subject of confiscation.
It is also to be observed that when the acts of 1861 and
1862 were passed, there was a state of war existing between
the United States and the rebellious portions of the country.
Whether its beginning was on the 27th or the 30th of April,
1861, or whether it was not until the act of Congress of
July 13th of that year, is unimportant to this case, for both
acts were passed after the existence of war was alike an
actual and a recognized fact.t War existing, the United
States were invested with belligerent rights in addition to
the sovereign powers previously held. Congress had then
full power to provide for the seizure and confiscation of any
property which the enemy or adherents of the enemy could
use for the purpose of maintaining the war against the government. It is true the war was not between two independent nations. But because a civil war, the government was
not shorn of any of those rights that belong to belligerency.
Mr. Wheaton, in his work on international law,t asserts the
doctrine to be that "the general usage of nations regards
such a war as entitling both the contending parties to all
the rights of war as against each other, and even as it respects neutral nations." It would be absurd to hold that,
* The Venus, 8 Cranch, 253.

t Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635.

+

296.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

while in a foreign war enemy's property may be captured
and confiscated as a means of bringing the struggle to a
successful completion, in a civil war of equal dimensions,
requiring quite as urgently the employment of all means to
weaken the belligerent in arms against the government, the
right to confiscate the property that may strengthen such
belligerent does not exist. There is no such distinction to
be made. Every reason for the allowance of a right to confiscate in case of foreign wars exists in full force when the
war is domestic or civil. It is, however, unnecessary to
pursue this branch of the subject farther. In the Amy Warwick,* and in the Prize Oases,t it was decided that in the
war of the rebellion the United States sustained the double
c1iaracter of a belligerent and a sovereign, and had the rights
of both.1
We come, then, directly to the question whether the act
of 1861, and the fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of the act
of 1862 were an exercise of this war power, the power of
confiscation, or whether they must be regarded as mere municipal regulations for the punishment of crime. The answer to this question must be found in the nature of the
statutes and of the proceedings directed under them. In
the case of Bose v. Hnely,ยง Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "But admitting a
sovereign, who is endeavoring to reduce his revolted subjects to obedience, to possess both sovereign and belligerent
rights, and to be capable of acting in either character, the
*manner in which he acts must determine the character of
the act. If, as a legislator, he publishes a law ordaining
punishment for certain offences, which law is to be applied
by courts, the nature of the law and of the proceedings
under it will decide whether it is an exercise of belligerent
rights or exclusively of his sovereign power; and whether
t 2 Black, 673.
+ Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 272; Cherriot v. Foussat, 3 Binney, 252;
Dobree v. Napier, 3 Scott, 225; Santissima Trinidad, 7"Wheaton, 306;
United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheaton, 635.
4 Craneb, 272.
* 2 Sprague, 123.

MILLER V.

IUNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the court, in applying this law to particular cases, acts as a
prize court or as a court enforcing municipal regulations."
Apply this test to the present case.
It is hardly contended that the act of 1861 was enacted in
virtue of the sovereign rights of the government. It defined
no crime. It imposed no penalty. It declared nothing unlawful. It was aimed exclusively at the seizure and confiscation of property used, or intended to be used; to aid, abet,
or promote the rebellion, then a war, or to maintain the
war against the government. It treated the property as
the guilty subject. It cannot be maintained that there is no
power to seize property actually employed in furthering a
war against the government, or intended to be thus employed. It is the act of 1862, the constitutionality of which
has been principally assailed. That act had several purposes, as indicated in its title. As described, it was "An
act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion,
to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes." The first four sections provided for the punishment
of treason, inciting or engaging in rebellion or insurrection,
or giving aid and comfort thereto. They are aimed at individual offenders, and they were undoubtedly an exercise
of the sovereign, not the belligerent rights of the government. But when we come to the fifth and the following
sections we find another purpose avowed, not punishing
treason and rebellion, as described in the title, but that
other purpose, described in the title, as "seizing and confiscating the property of rebels." The language is, "that to
insure the speedy termination of the present rebellion, it
shall be the duty of the President of the United States to
cause the seizure of all the estate and property, money,
stocks, credits, and effects of the persons hereinafter named
in this section, and to apply and use the same, and the proceeds thereof, for the support of the army of the United
States." Then follows a description of six classes of persons,
those referred to as the persons whose property should be
liable to seizure. The sixth section describes still another
class. Now, the avowed purpose of all this was, not to

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. "MITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

reach any criminal personally, but "to insure the speedy
termination of the rebellion" then present, which was a war,
which Congress had recognized as a war, and which this
court has decided was then a war. The purpose avowed
then was legitimate, such as Congress, in the situation of
the country, might constitutionally entertain, and the provisions made to carry out the purpose, viz., confiscation,
were legitimate, unless applied to others than enemies. It
is argued, however, that the enactments were for the confiscation of property of rebels, designated as such, and that
the law of nations allows confiscation only of enemy's property. But the argument overlooks the fact that the rebellion then existing was a war. And, if so, those engaged in
it were public enemies. The statute referred exclusively to
the rebellion then in progress. Whatever may be true in
regard to a rebellion which does not rise to the magnitude
of a war, it must be that when it has become a recognized
war those who are engaged in it are to be regarded as enemies. And they are not the less such because they are also
rebels. They are equally well designated as rebels or enemies. Regarded as deseriptiopersonarunz, the words "rebels"
and "enemies," in such a state of things, are synonymous.
And, if this is true, it is evident the statute, in denominating
the war rebellion, and the persons whose property it attempts
to confiscate rebels, may, at least, have intended to speak of
a war and of public enemies. Were this all that could be
said it would be enough, for when a statute will bear two
constrction's, one of which would be within the constitutional power of Congress to enforce, and the other a transgression of the power, that must be adopted which is consistent with the Constitution. It is always a presumption
that the legislature acts within the scope of its authority.
But there is much more in this case. It is impossible to
read the entire act without observing a clear distinction between the first four sections, which look to the punishment
of individual crime, and which were, therefore, enacted in
virtue of the sovereign power, and the subsequent sections,
which have in view a state of public war, and which direct

MILLER v.

TTNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the seizure of the property of those who were in fact enemies, for the support of the armies of the country. The
ninthb, tenth, and eleventh sections are in this view significant.
They declared that all slaves of persons engaged in rebellion
against the government of the United States, or who should
in any way give aid and comfort thereto, escaping within
our lines, or captured from such persons, or deserted by
them, should be deemed captives of war, and forever free;
that escaping slaves of such owners should not be delivered
up, and that no person engaged in the military or naval
service should, under any pretence whatever, surrender
slaves to claimants. The act then goes on to. provide for
the employment of persons of African descent in the suppression of the rebellion. Can it be that all this was municipal legislation, that it had no reference to the war power
of the government, that it was not an attempt to enforce
belligerent rights? We do not think so. We are not to
strain the construction of an act of Congress in order to
hold it unconstitutional.
It has been argued, however, that the provisions of the
act for confiscation are not confined in their operation to the
property of enemies, but that they are applicable to the
property of persons not enemies within the laws of nations.
If by this is meant that they direct the seizure and confiscation of property not confiscable-under the laws of war, we
cannot yield to it our assent. It may be conceded that the
laws of war do not justify the seizure and confiscation of
any private property except that o enemies. 1But who are
to be regarded as enemies in a domestic or civil war? In
case of a foreign war all who are inhabitants of the enemy's
country, with rare exceptions, are enemies whose property
is subject to confiscation; and it seems to have been taken
for granted in this case that only those who during the war
were inhabitants of the Confederate States were liable to
have their property confiscated. Such a proposition cannot
be maintained. It is not true even in case of a foreign war.
It is ever a presumption that inhabitants of an enemy's territory are enemies, even though they are not participants in

Dec.1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

the war, though they are subjects of neutral states, or even
subjects or citizens of the government prosecuting the war
against the state within which they reside. But even in
foreign wars persons may be enemies who are not inhabitants of the enemy's territory. The laws of nations nowhere
declare the contrary. And it would be strange if they did,
for those not inhabitants of a foreign state may be more
potent and dangerous foes than if they were actually residents of that state. By uniting themselves to the cause of
a foreign enemy they cast in their lot with his, and they.
cannot be permitted to claim exemptions which the subjects
of the enemy do not possess. Depriving them of their property is a blow against the hostile power quite as effective,
and tending quite as directly to weaken the belligerent with
whom they act, as would be confiscating the property of a
non-combatant resident. Clearly, therefore, those must be
considered as public enemies, and amenable to the laws of
war as such, who, though subjects of a state in amity with

the United States, are in the service of a state at war with
them, and this not because they are inhabitants of such a
state, but because of their hostile acts in the war. Even
under municipal law this doctrine is recognized. Thus in
VaughaW's Case,* Lord Holt laid down the doctrines, "If
the States (Dutch) be in alliance, and the French at war
with us, and certain Dutchmen turn rebels to the States,
and fight under the command of the French king, they are
enemies to us, for the French subjection makes them French
subjects in respect of all nations but their own." So, "if
an Englishman assist the French, and fight against the
king of Spain, our ally, this is an adherence to the king's
enemies."
Still less is it true that the laws of nations have defined
who, in the case of a civil war, are to be regarded and may
be treated as enemies. Clearly, however, those must be
considered such who, though subjects or citizens of the lawful government, are residents of the territory under the
- 2 Salkeld, 635.

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

power or control of the party resisting that government.
Thus much may be gathered from the Prize Cases. And
why are not all who act with that party? Have they not
voluntarily subjected themselves to that party; identified
themselves with it? And is it not as important to take
from them the sinews of war, their property, as it is to coniscate the property of rebel enemies resident within the
rebel territory? It is hard to conceive of any reason for
confiscating the property of one class that does not equally
justify confiscating the property of the other. We have
'already said that no recognized usage of nations excludes
from the category of enemies those who act with, or aid or
abet and give comfort to enemies, whether foreign or domestic, though they may not be residents of enemy's territory. It is not without weight, that when the Constitution
was formed its framers had fresh. in view what had been
done during the Revolutionary war. Similar statutes for the
confiscation of property of domestic enemies, of those who
adhered, to the British government, though not residents
of Great Britain, were enacted in many of the States, and
they have been judicially determined to have been justified
by the laws of war. They show what was then understood
to be confiscable property, and who were publit enemies.
At least they show the general understanding that aiders
and abettors of the public enemy were themselves enemies,
and hence that their property might lawfully be confiscated.
It was with these facts fresh in memory, and with a full
knowledge that such legislation had been common, almost
-universal, that the Constitution was adopted. It did prohibit ex post facto laws. It did prohibit bills of attainder.
They had also been passed by the States. But it imposed
no restriction upon the power to prosecute war or confiscate
enemy's property. It seems to be a fair inference from the
omission that it was intended the government should have
the power of carrying on war as it had been carried on
.diiring the Revolution, and therefore should have the right
to confiscate as enemy's property, not only the property of
foreign enemies, but also that of .domestic, and of the aiders,

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

abetters, and comforters of a public enemy. The framers
of the Constitution guarded against excesses that bad existed
during the Revolutionary struggle. It is incredible that if
such confiscations had not been contemplated as possible
and legitimate, they would not have been expressly prohibited, or at least restricted. We are therefore of opinion,
that neither the act of 1861 northat of 1862 is invalid, because other property than that of public enemies is directed
to be confiscated. We do not understand the acts, or either
of them, to be applicable to any other than the property of
enemies. All the classes of persons described in the fifth
and sixth sections of the act of 1862 were enemies within
the laws and usages of war.
It is further objected on behalf of the plaintiff in error,
that under the statute of 1862 the property of all enemies was
not made liable to confiscation. From this it is inferred, that
whether persons were within thelaw or not depended not on
their being enemies, but on certain overt criminal acts described and defined by the law. The fact asserted, namely,
that all enemies were not within the purview of the enactment
we may admit, but we dissent from the inference. Plainly,
it was competent for Congress to determine how far it would
exert belligerent rights, and it is quite too large a dediuction
from the fact that the property only of certain classes of enemies was directed to be confiscated, that it was not intended
to confiscate the property of enemies at all. If it be true
that all the persons described in the fifth, sixth, and seventh
sections were enemies, as we have endeavored to show they
were, it cannot matter by what name they were called, or
how they were described. The express declaration of the
seventh section was that their property should be condemned
"as enemies' property," and become the property of the
United States, to be disposed of as the court should decree,
the proceeds being"paid into the treasury for the purposes

described, to wit, the support of the army. It was, therefore,
as enemies' property, and not as that of offenders against
municipal law, that the statute directed its confiscation.
Upon the whole, then, we are of opinion the confiscation

MILLER V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

acts are not unconstitutional, and we discover no error in
the proceedings in this case.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
CLIFFORD, dissenting.
I am unable to agree with the majority of the court in the
judgment just rendered in this case, and will state, with as
much b'evity as possible, the grounds of my disagreement.
The case was brought for the forfeiture of personal property belonging to the appellant, and is founded upon what
is termed the Confiscation Act of July 17th, 1862. There
is, it is true, a count in the libel upon the act of August 6th,
1861, but no reliance has been placed upon it to support the
forfeiture. The case has proceeded upon the theory that
the stock, alleged to have been seized by the marshal, was
in Michigan, and had been there since it was issued, a period
anterior to the rebellion, and, of course, to the passage of
the act in question, a position inconsistent with any claim
that the property had been subsequently purchased to be
.used, or had been used, in aiding, abetting, or promoting
the rebellion. No further attention will therefore be given
to that act.
I shall direct my attention, in the first place, to the validity
of the legislation embodied in the act of July 17th, 1862,
and then assuming that legislation to be valid and in accordance with the Constitution, shall consider whether the proceedings in the case are in conformity with its requirements.
The auth6rity for the legislation in question must be found
in what are termed the war powers of the government;
which, so far as they touch upon the present subjects of inquiry, are the power to declare war, to suppress insurrection,
and to make rules concerning captures on land and water;
or, in what is termed the municipal power of the government to legislate for the punishment of offences against the
United States.
It has been held, that when the late rebellion assumed the
proportions of a territorial civil war, the inhabitants of the

:Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

Confederate States, and the inhabitants of the loyal States,
became reciprocally enemies to each other, and that the inhabitants of the Confederate States engaged in the rebellion, or giving aid and comfort thereto, were at the same
time amenable to the municipal law as rebels. The correctness of this determination is not disputed. The question is,
not as to the right of the United States to adopt either course
against the inhabitants of the Confederate States engaged in
the rebellion; that is, the right to treat them as public enemies, and to apply to them all the harsh measures justified
by the rules of war; or the right to prosecute theln in the
ordinary modes of criminal procedure for the punishment
of treason; but what course has Congress, by its legislation,
authorized. For it is evident that legislation founded upon
the war powers of the government, and directed against the
public enemies of the United States, is subject to different
considerations and limitations from those applicable to legislation founded upon the municipal power of the government
and directed against criminals. Legislation in the former
case is subject to no limitations, except such as are imposed
by the law of nations in the conduct of war. Legislation
in the latter case is subject to all the limitations prescribed
by the Constitution for the protection of the citizen against
hasty and indiscriminate accusation, and which insure to
him, when accused, a speedy and public trial by a jury of
his peers.
The war powers of the government have no express limitation in the Constitution, and the only limitation to which
their exercise is subject is the law of nations. That limitation necessarily exists. When the United States became an
independent nation, they became, to use the language of
Chancellor Kent, "subject to that system of rules which
reason, morality, and custom had established among the
civilized nations of Europe as their public law."* And it
is in the light of that law that the war powers of the government must be considered. The power to prosecute war
* 1 Kent's Commentaries, 1.

MILLER V. -UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

granted by the Constitution, as is well said by counsel, is a
power to prosecute war according to the law of nations, and
not in violation of that law. The power to make rules concerning captures on land and water is a power to make such
rules as Congress may prescribe, subject to the condition
that they are within the law of nations. There is a limit to
the means of destruction which government, in the prosecution of xiar, may use, and there is a limit to the subjects of
capture and confiscation, which government may authorize,
imposed by the law of nations, and is no less binding upon
Congress than if the limitation were written in the Constitution.** The plain reason of this is, that the rules and
limitations prescribed by that law were in the contemplation
of the parties who framed and the people who adopted the
Constitution.
Whatever any independent civilized nation may do in the
prosecution of war, according to the law of nations, Congress, under the Constitution, may authorize to be done, and
nothing more.
Now, in Brown v. United States,t Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,
in delivering the opinion of the court, said that it was conceded that "war gives to the sovereign full right to take the
persons and confiscate the property of the enemy wherever
found," and added that "the mitigations of this rigid rule,
which the humane and wise policy of modern times has introduced into practice, will more or less affect the exercise
of this right, but cannot impair the right itself That reThus it is forbidden by the law of nations to use poisoned weapons, or
to poison wells, springs, waters, or any'kind of food intended for the enemy.
"Any state or general," says Halleck, "' who should resort to such means
would be regarded as an enemy to the human race, and excluded from civilized society." So also it is forbidden to encourage the assassination of an
enemy or his generals or leaders, or to put to death prisoners of war, except
in case of absolute necessity, or to make slaves of them or to sell them into
slavery; or to take the lives of the aged, disabled, and infirm, or to maltreat
their persons. The United States are not freed from these prohibitions because they are not inserted in the Oonstitution.-(Halleck's International
Law, chaps. 16 and 18.)
t 8 Cranch, 122.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

mains undiminished, and when the sovereign authority shall
choose to bring it into operation the judicial department
must give effect to its will." The question presented for
consideration in that case was whether enemy's property,
found on land at the commencement of hostilities with Great
Britain in 1812, could be seized and condemned as a necessary consequence of the declaration of war; and the decision'
of the court was that it could not be condemned without an
act of Congress authorizing its confiscation.

The language

of the eminent chief justice is perhaps subject to some qualification, if it was intended to state as a rule of public law
that all property of the enemy, whether on land or water,
was subject to confiscation. Mr. Wheaton, who is authority
on all questi6ns of public law, says that by the modern usage
of nations, which has acquired the force of law, "private
property on land is exempt from confiscation, with the exception of such as may become booty in special cases, when
taken from enemies in the field or in besieged towns, and
of military contributions levied upon the inhabitants of the
hostile territory," and that "this exemption extends even
to the case of an absolute and unqualified conquest of the
enemy's country."* And Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in the
subsequent case of The United States v. Percheman,t observed
that it was unusual, even in cases of conquest, for the conqueror to do more than to displace the sovereign and assume
dominion over the country, and that "the modern usage of
nations, which has become law, would be violated; that sense
of justice and right, which is acknowledged and felt by the
whole civilized world, would be outraged if private property
should be generally confiscated, and private rights annulled."
But assuming the severe rule laid down by the chief justice to be the true rule, it applies only to the property of
enemies, and by enemies is meant permanent inhabitants
of the enemy's country. It is their property alone which is
the subject of seizure and confiscation by authority of Congress, legislating under the war powers. Their property is
* Law of Nations, Lawrence's ed., p. 596.

t" 7 Peters, 86.

MILLER V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

liable, not by reason of any hostile disposition manifested
by them or hostile acts committed, or any violations of the
laws of the United States, but solely from the fact that they
are inhabitants of the hostile country, and thus in law are
enemies.
If we turn now to the act of July 17th, 1862, we find that
its provisions are not directed against enemies at all, but
against persons who have committed certain overt acts of
treason. It does not purport in any par.t of it to deal with
enemies. It declares in its title that its object is "to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize
and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes." The other purposes relate principally to slaves,
their employment or colonization, and the power of the
President to proclaim amnesty and pardon. They have no
bearing upon the questions under consideration, and need
not be further noticed. The first section of the act prescribes
the punishment for treason thereafter committed. It punishes it with death, or, in the discretion of the court, with
imprisonment for not less than five years and a fine of not
less than ten thousand dollars; and it provides that the slaves
of the party adjudged guilty, if any he have, shall be declared free. The second section provides for the punishment of the offence of inciting, setting on foot, or engaging
in any rebellion or insurrection against the authority of the
United States or the laws thereof, or engaging in or giving
aid and comfort to the rebellion then existing. The third
section declares that parties guilty of either of the offences
thus described shall be forever incapable and disqualified to
hold any office under the United States. The fourth section
provides that the act shall not affect the prosecution, conviction, or punishment of persons guilty of treason before the
passage of the act, unless such persons are convicted under
the act itself.
Then follow the clauses which provide for the seizure and
confiscation of the property of certain classes of persons, who
may thereafter be guilty of certain overt acts of treason. They
contain no directions whatever for the seizure of the property

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

of enemies, but only of persons who may thereafter violate
the provisions of the act. Among the classes designated are
included persons who may thereafter hold any agency under
the Confederate States or under any State composing the
Confederacy, and persons owning property in any loyal State
or Territory of the United States or District of Columbia,
who shall thereafter assist and give aid and comfort to the
rebellion; persons who may or may not be enemies in the
sense in which the term is used in the law of nations; that
is, permanent inhabitants of the enemy's country. So
through all the provisions of the act, there is not a single
clause which indicates, in the slightest degree, that it was
a-ainst public enemies its provisions were directed. They
are applicable to all persons who may do certain acts, whether
they be enemies or not within the meaning of the law of
nations.
The only place in the act where the word enemies is used,
is in the clause which provides that if it be found by the
courts, before which proceedings are instituted, that the
property seized belonged to a person engaged in the rebellion or who had given aid or comfort thereto, it should be
condemned as enemies' property; that is, should be condemned in the same manner as if it were enemies' property.
This clause does not provide that the property shall be condemned if found to be enemies' property, but that when
condemned it shall be with the like effect as though it were
such property.
It would seem clear, therefore, that the provisions of the
act were not passed in the exercise of the war powers of the
government, but in the exercise of the municipal power of
the government to legislate for the punishment of offences
against the United States. It is the property of persons
guilty of certain acts, wherever they may reside, in loyal or
disloyal States, which the statute directs to be seized and
confiscated. It is also for acts committed after the passage
of the statute, except in one particular, corrected by the joint
resolution of the two houses, that the forfeiture is to be declared. If it had been the intention of the statute to confis-

TMILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

cate the property of enemies, its prospective character would
have been entirely unnecessary, for whenever public war
exists the right to order the confiscation of enemies' property, according to Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, exists with
Congress.
That the legislation in question was directed, not against
enemies, but against persons who might be guilty of certain
designated public offences, and that the forfeiture ordered
was intended as a punishment for the offences, is made further evident by what followed the passage of the act of Congress. After the bill was sent to the President it was ascertained that he was of opinion that it was unconstitutiornal in
some of its features, and that he intended to veto it. His
objections were that the restriction of the Constitution concerning forfeitures not extending beyond the life of the
offender had been disregarded. To meet this objection,
which had been communicated to members of the House of
Represen tatives, where the bill originated, a joint resolution
explanatory of the act was passed by the House and sent to
the Senate. That body, being informed of the objections of
the President, concurred in the joint resolution. It was then
seht to the President and was .received by him befbre the
expiration of the ten days allowed him for the consideration
of the original bill.. He returned the bill and resolution
together to the House, where they originated, with a message, in which he stated that, considering the act and the
resolution, explanatory of the act, as being substantially one,
he hail approved and signed both. That joint resolution
declares that the provisions of the third clause of the fifth
section of the act shall be so construed as not to apply to
any act or acts done prior to its passage, "nor shall any
punishment or proceedings under said act be so construed
as to work a forfeithre of the real estate of the offender
beyond his natural life."
The terms here used, "forfeiture" of the estate of the
"offender," have no application to the confiscation of enemies'
property under the law of nations. They are, as justly observed by counsel, strictly and exclusively applicable to pun-

Dec. 1870.]

D ILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

ishment for crime. It was to meet the constitutional requirement that the punishment by forfeiture should not extend
beyond the life of the offender that the joint resolution was
passed. The President said to Congress, the act is penal,
and does not conform to the requirement of the Constitution
in the extent of punishment which it authorizes, and I cannot, therefore, sign it. Congress accepts his interpretation,
and by its joint resolution directs a construction of the act
in accordance with his views. And this construction, thus
directed, is decisive, as it appears to me, of the character of
the act.* Indeed it is difficult to conceive of any reason for
the limitation of the forfeiture of an estate to the life of the
owner, if such forfeiture was intended to apply only to the
property of public enemies.
The inquiry, then, arises, whether proceedings in rem for
the confiscation of the property of parties charged to be
guilty of certain overt acts of treason, can be maintained
without their previous conviction for the alleged offences.
Such proceedings, acco'rding to Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,
may be had for the condemnation of enemies' property when
authorized by Congress. The proceedings in such cases are
merely to authenticate the fact upon which, under the law
of nations; the confiscation follows. But here the inquiry
is, whether, upon the assumption that a party is guilty of a
particular public offence, his property may be seized, and
upon proof of his guilt, or its assumption, upon his failure to appear upon publication of citation, condemnation
may be decreed. The inquiry is prompted from the supposed analogy of these cases to proceedings in rem for the
confiscation of property for 6ffences against the revenue
laws, or the laws for the suppression of the slave trade. But
in these cases, and in all cases where proceedings in rem are
authorized for a disregard of some municipal or public law,
the offence constituting the ground of condemnation inheres,
as it were, in the thing itself. The thing is the instrument
See Bigelow v. Forrest, 9 Wallace, 350 ; and McVeigh v. United States,
supra, 258.
VOL. XI.

21

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Fleld and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

of wrong, and is forfeited by reason of the unlawful use
made of it, or the unlawful condition in which it is placed.
And generally the thing, thus subject to seizure, itself furnishes the evidence for its own condemnation. Thus, goods
found smuggled, not having been subjected to the inspection
of the officers of the customs, or paid the duties levied by
law, prove of themselves nearly all that is desired to establish the right of the government to demand their confiscation. A ship entering the mouth of a blockaded port furnishes by its position evidence of its intention to break the
blockade, and the decree of condemnation follows. A ship
captured whilst engaged in the slave-trade furnishes, in the
use to which it was subjected, the material fact to be established for its forfeiture. In all these cases the proceeding is
against the offending thing. And it is true that in these
cases criminal proceedings will also lie against the smuggler,
or slave-trader, if arrested, and that the proceedings in rem
are wholly independent of, and unaffected by, the criminal
proceedings against the person. But in the two cases the
proof is entirely different. In the one case, there must be
proof that the thing proceeded against was subjected to
some unlawful use, or was found in some unlawful condition. In the other case the personal guilt of the party must
be established, and when condemnation is founded upon
such guilt, it must be preceded by due conviction of the
offender, according to the forms prescribed by the Constitution. "Confiscations of property," says Mr. Justice Sprague
in the Amy Warwick,* " not for any use that has been made
of it, which go not against an offending thing, but are inflicted for the personal delinquency of the owner, are punitive, and punishment should be inflicted only upon due conviction of personal guilt."
If we examine the cases found in the reports, where proceedings in rem have been sustained, we shall find the distinctlon here stated constantly observed. Indeed, were this
not so, and proceedings in rem for the confiscation of prop* 2 Sprague, 150.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

erty could be sustained, without any reference to the uses
to which the property is applied, or the condition in which
it is found, but whilst, so to speak, it is innocent and passive, and removed at a distance from the owner and the
sphere of his action, on the ground of the personal guilt of
the owner, all the safeguards provided by the Constitution
for the protection of the citizen against punishment, without previous trial and conviction, and after being confronted
by the witnesses against him, would be broken down and
swept away.
There is no difference in the relation between the owner
and his property and the government, when the owner is
guilty of treason and when he is guilty of any other public
offence. The same reason which would sustain the authority of the government to confiscate the property of a traitor
would justify the confiscation of his property when guilty
of any other offence. And it would sound strange to modern ears to hear that proceedings in rem to confiscate the
property of the burglar, the highwayman, or the murderer
were authorized, not as a consequence of their conviction
upon regular criminal proceedings, but without such conviction, upon ex parte proof of their guilt, or upon the assumption of their guilt from their failure to appear to a
citation, published in the vicinage of the property, or posted
upon the doors of the adjoining court-house, and which they
may never have seen. It seems to me that the reasoning,
which upholds the proceedings in this case, works a complete revolution in our criminal jurisprudence, and establislies the doctrine that proceedings for the punishment of
crime againstthe person of the offender may be disregarded,

and proceedings for such punishment be taken against his
pioperty alone, or that proceedings may be taken at the
same time both against the person and the property, and
thus a double punishment for the same offence be inflicted.
For these reasons I am of opinion that the legislation,
upon which it is sought to uphold the judgment in this
case, is not warranted by the Constitution.
I proceed to consider whether, if that legislation be valid

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

and constitutional, the proceedings in the case are in coniormity with its requirements.
The act of Congress requires the seizure of the property,
the forfeiture of which is sought, to be-made under directions of the President. This seizure is preliminary to the
commencement of proceedings for the condemnation of the
property. "After the same shall have been seized," says
the statute, such proceedings shall be instituted. This preliminary executive seizure is essential to authorize the filing
of a libel of information, and in that sense it is essential to
give the court' jurisdiction to proceed; but it does not of
itself vest in the court jurisdiction over the property. The
President could discharge the property from the seizure
without the permission of the court or invoking its action.
The mere fact that the marshal is employed as the agent in
making the seizure does not alter the case. He does not
then act as an officer of the court under its process. Any
other person might be selected by the President as his
agent. In cases under the revenue laws the seizure is often
made by the collector or some officer other than the marshal, and the same thing might be done here. The preliminary seizure, if the property be movable, only determines
the court in which judicial proceedings shall be instituted.
To give the court control over the property something more
is essential. The property must be brought into the custody of the court, and this can only be done under the process of the court. The very theory upon which all proceetings in. rem are sustained is that jurisdiction of the court is
acquired by taking the res into its custody. It is the seizure
under judicial process, judicial seizure as distinguished from
any preliminary seizure in any other way, which gives the
jurisdiction, and nothing else ever has been held to confer
jurisdiction in this class of cases.
Now in the case before us there was not in my judgment
any preliminary seizure of the property made by order of
the Executive or through his officers or agents, or any subsequent seizure under judicial process. The proceeding was
instituted for the forfeiture of 200 shares of the common

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

stock of the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad Company, and 343 shares of the Detroit, Monroe, and
Toledo Railroad Company, and the only pretence of seizure
consisted in a notice given by the' marshal, previous to the
suit, to the vice-president of the first company and the president of the second company that he had seized the stock
in question. The marshal returned that he made the alleged
seizure by giving notice in this way. Neither the president
of one company 6r the vice-president of the other company
were in possession of the stock, nor were they the agents of
the owner, nor was any possession ever taken of the.property by the marshal, unless such notice had the power of
transmitting the possession to him. To constitute a valid
seizure of property as a basis for a proceeding in rem, the
party previously in possession must be dispossessed and unable any longer to exercise dominion over the property, and
such dominion must be transferred to the officer making
the seizure. No other seizure than, this will sustain proceedings in ren, according to the established doctrine in admiralty and revenue cases, unless a different mode of seizuire
is specially prescribed by statute. No other mode would
conserve the principle of notice to the party whose property
was to be affected, which is essential to the validity of all
judicial proceedings. "It is a principle of natural justice
of universal obligation," says Chief Justice Marshall, " that
before the rights of an individual be bound by judicial
sentence; lie shall have notice, either actual or implied, of
the proceedings against him. Where these proceedings are
against the person notice is served personally or by publication; where they are in rem, notice is served upon the thing
itself. This is necessary notice to all those who have any
interest in the thing and is reasonable because it is necessary and because it is the part of common prudence for all
those who have any interest in it to guard that interest by
persons who are in a situation to protect it."*
The doctrine that notice to the owner is given by seizure
* The Mary, 9 Cranch, 14.4.

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.

Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

of the thing, rests upon the presumption that the owners of
property retain possession of it themselves, or place it in the
care and management of persons who will represent them
and communicate to them any proceedings taken against
their interest in relation to it. In this case this doctrine is
entirely disregarded. The notice given to the president of
one company and the vice-president of the other might
with equal propriety, have been given to any other strangers
to the owner. How the marshal could get possession of a
thing which he did not touch nor handle nor control, by
giving notice to two individuals in Detroit, themselves baving no control or possession of the property, passes lily comprehension. Shares or stock in companies can only be seized
in virtue of statutory provisions, which prescribe a iode of
seizure equivalent to actual taking of possession. No such
provisions existed in the law of Michigan, in which State
the proceedings were had. The Attorney-General, in.his
instructions to the district attorney for carrying out the
act, directed that stocks should be seized according to the
methods prescribed by the State law. As no such methods
were prescribed by the law of Michigan, or especially prescribed by the court, the case was one for which no provision
was made.
After the libel was filed there was no new attempt to make
any other seizure of the property than the one previously
made. The process of the court directed the marshal to
hold the stock which he had seized, referring, evidently, to
the preliminary seizure. The marshal returned that he had
seized and held the property, referring, as I understand it,
to such preliminary seizure.
But further, the act of Congress declares that the proceedings for the condemnation of the property seized shall
conform, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in admiralty
or revenue cases. Here the proceedings are against property on land, and they must, therefore, conform, as nearly
as possible, to proceedings in revenue cases. Now, the act
of 1799 prescribes the proceedings in revenue cases, and
provides that after default "the court shall proceed to hear

:Dec. 1870.]

e

ILLER V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

and determine the cause according to law."* And, in the
case of The United States v. The Schooner Lion,t Mr. Justice
Sprague, whose great learning justly adds weight to his opinions, gave a construction to this clause. A default had been
properly entered, and it was contended by the district attorney that condemnation followed of necessity, upon default,
without a hearing, but the learned judge, citing the clause
mentioned, said: "This makes it imperative that there shall
be some hearing before a decree of forfeiture, but to what
extent must depend upon the circumstances of the case.
The court will at least examine the allegations of the libel
to see if they are sufficient in law, and the return of the
marshal and such affidavit or affidavits as the district attorney shall submit. Where it appears that the owners have
bad full notice of the proceedings, and ample opportunity to
intervene, and have voluntarily declined to do so, slight additional evidence will be sufficient. Indeed, a wilful omission by the owners to answer and thereby make disclosure
as to material facts within their knowledge, might, of itself,
satisfy the court that a forfeiture should be decreed. But
the court will require the prosecutor to introduce full proof of the
allegations in the libel whenever the circumstances shall make it
reasonable." It will hardly be pretended that the circumstances in this case did not render it reasonable that such full
proof should be had, and yet no such proof was had. The
only proof offered was of a doubtful admission of the claimant, and consisted of the ex parte deposition of a single witness to a conversation which lie alleged he bad had with the
claimant in 1863 in Virginia.
But this is not all.* The act of Congress of 1862 further
provides, in prescribing the proceedings to be taken, that
"if" the property seized "shall be found to have belonged
to a person engaged in rebellion, or who has given aid or
comfort thereto, the same shall be condemned." Evidently
some finding of the court is here contemplated upon presentation of proofs, and it appears to me, was intended as
* I Stat. at Large, p. 695, J 89.

t- 1 Spragae, 400.

MILLER V. 'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. L.t.

Opinion of Davis, J., dissenting.

authority for the subsequent decree, as much so as the verdict of ajury is authority for the subsequent judgment, and
that without such finding the decree cannot stand. The
record discloses that no such finding was made, and that no
decree even was entered, as required by the 29th Admiralty
Rule, that the libel be taken pro confesso, so as to justify the
assumption that its allegations were true.
As the act is highly penal in its nature, it would seem that,
according to well-received rules, it should be strictly construed, and a rigid compliance with its provisions exacted.
But the very opposite course in the construction of the act
appears to have been adopted by the majority of the court.
I am of opinion that the judgment of the court below
should be reversed.
Mr. Justice DAVIS, also dissenting.
I concur in the views taken by the majority of the court
in its opinion respecting the constitutionality of the acts of
Congress under review, but I dissent from the disposition
which is made of the case, believing there are errors in the
record, entitling the plaintiff in error to have the judgment
of the court below reversed. This is a proceeding in ren,
and by the course of proc:edure in admiralty and revenue
cases, to which it is assimilated, is conducted differently
from suits at common law, or in equity, where there is actual
service of process on the person. But all cases in court,
proceed on the idea of notice to the party whose property is
to be affected. This is a fundamental principle, underlying
the whole structure of judicial proceedings, regardless of the
form they may assume in the particular court in which they
may be instituted. In courts of admiralty, and for hearing
revenue cases, seizure of the thing is regarded as equivalent
to personal service, on the ground that the person whose
property is seized, has intrusted it to the care of some one
who has the power and whose duty it is to represent him
and assert his claim.*
* Mankin v. Chandler, 2 Brockenborough, 127; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch,
277; The Mary, 9 Id. 144.

Dec. 1870.]

MILLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Davis, J., dissenting.

It can be readily seen that in case tangible property which
is capable of actual possession is seized, the interests of the
owner will be protected by the person in whose custody it is
placed. Bnt it is different with intangible property, such as
stocks in corporations, which, in their very nature, are incapable of seizure as other property. This specics of property
does not require to be left in charge of any person for its
security and preservation, and it is evidenced by certificates
which are, presumptively, in the possession of the owner of
the stock, wherever he may be. How, then, can it be said
that the mere service of notice on the officers of the corporations in which these stocks were held, either gave notice
to the owner of the property, or brought the res within the
cmtrol of the court? In no sense had they the control of
the property, or were they the agents of the owner, or bound
to appear and defend his interests. There certainly did not
exist between them the legal relation, which raises the presunmttion in other cases, that the custodian of the property
seized, will appear and-defend the owner's interests. In
point of fact, it may happen that the officers of the corporation are in direct hostility to the interests of the stockhQlders,
and in this particular case it is fairly to be inferred, that the
possible thing did actually occur. It is, therefore, very clear
that the manner in which these stocks purport to have been
seized, did not satisfy the requisites of a revenue seizure,
nor convey any notice to Miller, or to ahy one, sustaining
a fiduciary relation to him, of what was done. Nor was his
condition improved by the publication of notice, because
be lived in an insurgent State, and any attempt to communicate to him the contents of the publication was forbidden,
and would, therefore, have been illegal.
But, it may be asked, is there no way in which this species of property can be made the subject of legal process?
The answer is, that it can only be done by statute, which
shall point out the mode of proceeding. In such a case the
principle of notice is preserved, for the owner is-advised that
-his property can be condemned, and the manner of its condemnation, and naturally, in this condition of things, if it

MILLER V. 'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Davis, J., dissenting.

were possible, lie would delegate to some one the authority
to look after his interests. But stocks cannot he seized, in
the absence of any statutory provision on the subject, and
the law has failed to make such provision. It is a casus
oinissws, undoubtedly, but it is not the province of this court
This difficulty was felt by the
to supply the omission.
Attorney-General, because, in his instructions to the district
attorneys, le directs that stocks shall be seized according to
the methods prescribed by the State laws.
But in Michigan, there is no law which authorizes the
taking of stocks on mesne process, and I cannot see how the
fact, that they may be taken on final process in that State,
tends to support the argument that the method pursued in
this case to seize the property in the first instance was proper
and legil.
But apart from this view of the subject, which, in my
opinion, is fatal to the recovery in this case, there is an
irregularity in the proceedings, which should reverse the
judgment and send the case back for a new hearing.
There are two acts of Congress relating to the condemnation of enemies' property-one was passed in 1861, and
the other in 1862. They differ materially in regard to the
grounds on which condemnation can be placed. Besides,
the act of 1861 divides the proceeds with the informer,
which is not the case under the act of 1862. The libel
sets forth every ground of condemnation under both acts,
while the decree, in condemning the property, does not
find any fict by reason of which it could be forfeited to the
United States at all. This, in itself, is sufficient to reverse
the decree. But as the decree divides the proceeds with
the informer, the court must necessarily have found the
property confiscable under the act of 1861, and yet if the
evidence in the case, consisting of an affidavit, made in
New York, of one Thatcher (who, in some way not disclosed in the record, was able to get down to Virginia in
1863, hunt up Miller, and have a private conversation with
him), tends to prove anything, it is that the property was,
confiscable under the act of 1862. As this is a direct pro.

Dec. 1870.]

TYLER V. DEFREES.
Statement of the case.

ceeding to reverse the judgment, these irregularities are
grounds of error.
Foil, these reasons, in my opinion, the decree in this case
should be reversed.

TYLER v. DEFREES.
1. The Congress of the United States, to which is intrusted all the great
powers essential to a perpetual union, to wit: the power to make war, to
suppress insurrection, to levy taxes, to make rules concerning captures
on land and sea, is not deprived of those powers when the necessity for
their exercise is called out by domestic insurrection and internal civil
war.
2. The proceedings of the courts in the execution of laws made to suppress
such civil rebellion, when brought before this 6ourt on review, should
not be subjected to so strict a construction as to defeat the execution of
the laws and render them a nullity.
3. The doctrine of the case of Miller v. United States (supra, 268), affirmed
and held to govern the present case.
4. When under the act of July 17th, 1862, property intended for confiscation
hs been seized by the marshal, and the seizure is briought before the
court by the filing of a libel for the forfeiture of the property, and is
recognized and adopted by it, the property is subject to the control of
the court in the hands of its officer; and it has jurisdiction of the case
so far as it seizure of the rcs is essential to give it.
5. This is especially so of real estate lying within the territorial jurisdiction
of the court, and which being incapable of removal will always be found
to answer the orders and decrees of the court in the progress of the cause.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action of ejectment to recover certain real
property in the city of Washington. The defendant pleaded
title friom a purchaser at a sale of the property under a j udicial decree, made in proceedings instituted under the Confiscation Act of July 17tb, 1862. It was conceded that the
plaintiff had a good title to the premises, unless that title
had beeu divested by the sale under that decree. The issue
involved was, therefore, the validity of the decree.
The provisions of the confiscation act just referred to,
along with some facts in connection with it, are set out fully
ERROR

