Dec. 1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

217

Syllabus.

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
1. Contracts entered into in a spirit of peace and for the settlement of unadjusted demands on both sides, will not, where executed by persons of
intelligence, and under circumstances which indicate caution and a
knowledge of what is done, be readily questioned in equity as in fact not
fair; but, on the contrary, will be protected and enforced.
2. A purchaser by a deed of quit-claim simply, is not regarded as a bo fide
purchaser without'notice.
3. The knowledge of counsel in a particular transaction is notibe to his
client. And though the client may not actively participate in accom-,
plishing a fraud, yet if he be looking on at what is done by another
who is his confidential agent and professional adviser generally, and
has been his agent and adviser in regard to a particular matter now
called in question as fraudulently accomplished, and if, when all is
accomplished the client take and profit by the fruits of all that has been
done, he will be taken as affected with knowledge possessed by such his
agent.
4. When a trustee abuses his trust-donverting trust property into new forms
-the cestui que v ust has the option to take the original or the substituted property, and if either has passed into the hands of a bona fide
purchaser without notice, then its value in money. If the trust property comes back into the hands of the trustee, that fact does not affect
the right of the cestui gue trust. The principle is that the wrong-doer
shall derive no benefit from his wrong, and that profits which he makes
belong to the cestui gue trust. Equity will accordingly so mould and
apply the remedy as to give them to him; giving, however, the party
thus charged proper credits for money which he has paid, but which, if
things had all been regularly transacted, the cestui gue trust should
have paid; making proper allowances for rent, interest, &c., and putting things on such a footing as under the circumstances does the most
complete justice.
5. Hence, where a person who had improperly possessed himself of land and
of personal securities which a complainant was entitled to have, and confused the personal securities by changing the form of them, died, leaving
a will by which he devised his estate to numerous persons not within
the jurisdiction of the court, but appointing executors who were within
it, the court being unable to reach the devisees, and so to decree a
conveyance of the land itself, gave a money decree against the executors embracing the value of the land, and also the sum realized from the
securities. On the other hand, it gave the party thus charged credit
for the payment of certain sums which he bad paid in discharge of the
complainant's debts, and which, if all things had been done properly,
the complainant would have paid; making also proper allowances for
rent, interest, &c., and directing an account before a master.

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. Although, where there has been a contract for the acquisition of specific
pieces of property, which is now incapable of performance, parties may
sometimes'be remitted from a court of equity to a court of law, yet they
are never so remitted where the remedy at law is not as effectual and
complete as a chancellor can make it.

Tis was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for Iowa, dismissing a bill filed by one
James May against the executors of Antoine Le Claire and
others.
. The evidence in the case showed apparently the following
leadhig facts, viz.:
1st. That May and Le Claire had, previously to February
4th, 1859, been associated in business, and that they then
had mutual claims against each other.
2d. That on that day May made to Le Claire a written
offer of compromise, which, about two months afterward
(March 8th, 1859), was accepted by Le Claire, in writing,
which acceptance was witnessed by his attorney and counsel, John P. Cook, Esquire.
3d. That this compromise consisted in a settlement and
cancellation of their mutual claims by an exchange of property of unequal values, whereby May was to be paid his claim
against Le Claire by the difference in value between the
property which he was to give and the value of the property
which he was to receive, that difference being about $27,000.
That the particulars of the compromise were these:
May was to release all claims against Le Claire and convey to him, free from incumbrance, a farm called Rosebank,
within twelve months; Le Claire was to release all claims
against May and convey to him his interest as mortgagee in
certain lands which he had sold to one Adrian H. Davenport; that is to say, to assign to May five notes of $5000
each, with the mortgage given by Davenport, and also to
convey certain island and river-shore lands owned by Le
Claire, below the town of Le Claire, in Iowa.
That at the date of the agreement the Rosebank farm,
which May agreed to convey to Le Claire freed from its incumbrances, was incumbered-

Dec. "1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
Statement of the case.

(a) By a mortgage to one Kettell, for $3125, payable November 1st, 1867.
(b) By a trust-deed to one Powers, to secure $6550, payable May 1.-t, 1858; overdue, therefore, like the mortgage,

at the time of the compromise; this deed containing a clause
authorizing Powers, the trustee., to sell the land if the amount
was not paid at maturity.
4th. That in part performance of the contract on his part,
May gave to Le Claire immediate possession of Rosebank,
through his nephew and business agent (one Joseph A. Le
Claire), and also executed apd deposited with Cook & Sargent, bankers at Davenport, a deed, conveying the farm to
Te Claire.
5th. That in part performance of the contract on his part,
Antoine Le Claire also assigned to May the notes, mortgage, and colhiterals of Davenport, and deposited them with
Cook & Sargent. That this assignment was declared to be
"il consideration of an amicable and full settlement between said May and myself of all matters of differcnce heretolbre existing between us;" and was witnessed by Cook,
already named, the attorney aid counsel of Le Claire.
6th. That Le Claire, at the time and for a short time
afterwards, was satisfied with the compromise, but afterwards became dissatisfied.
7th. That in the meantime, to wit, April 12th, 1859, Davenport offered in writing to make a settlement with May
by paying himu part of the lihbilities of him, the said Davenport, which had already been assigned by Le Clai re to May.
That this offer was not accepted.
8th. That in the spring of 1859, May, in further execution of the contract on his part, entered into negotiations
at Pittsburg, where he had once lived and was known, by
which he was to obtain the means to enable him to remove
the incumbrances now overdue upon the 1Rosebank farm;
that the means thus provided were approved bankers' drafts.
That while he was absent at Pittsburg Rosebank was advertised by Powers, the trustee, for sale, on the 20th of July,
under the deed of trust, Cook urging this on and stating to

MAY V. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Powers that the " compromise" was very unjust to Le Claire,
who, he said, on the facts, traly understood, had owed May
nothing on a settlement; that he, Cook, wished to break
it up; feeling himself bound as the friend and attorney of
Le Claire to protect him as far as possible against so gross
an imposition. That on the day, and near the hour advertised for the sale of the farm, May and a Pittsburg
friend called on Powers to make arrangements to pay the
said incumbrances, and were informed by Powers that the
drafts would be satisfactory and that the sale should not
take place. That while May was thus in conversation with
Powers, a note written by Cook was handed to Powers,
who then stated that he was called out on other business,
excused himself and went away; that on Powers thus withdrawing from the company of May, he joined Cook, and
the two went to the cdurt-house (without May's knowledge)
and there sold the farm under the trust-deed at auction,
subject to the mortgage, striking it off for $5000 to one
Dessaiiit; a deed having been already prepared by Cook
with a biank for the purchaser's name; now filled in with
Dessaint's.
That previous to this sale, Cook had told Powers that he
need not have bidders there; that it was unnecessary to bid
against him (Cook) or Dessaint, who Cook said desired to
purchase, and that if the property was struck off to either
for less than the amount due both on the trust-deed (now
$7400) and mortgage, he, Cook, would see both the debts
paid in full. That the balance due on the trust-deed was
thus afterwards paid, and that on the 28th of July, 1859,
Powers sold to Cook the mortgage of May to Kettle, taking
in payment Cook's own note for $3255.87, indorsed by Le
Claire and one Ebenezer Cook, and that Cook sued May on
the note in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois and obtained a judgment. That
May complained to Powers, and to others, of the mode in
which Rosebank had been sold, and that Powers promised
to annul the sale on payment of the debt, and did in fact
apparently make some effbrts to induce Dessaint to give up

Dec. 1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
Statement of the case.

his bargain ; which, however, Dessaint refused to do, saying
that he had bought the farm to keep.
9th. That the said farm was now held by one Joseph A.
Le Claire, Junior, by an apparently free and unincunibered
title, as the assignee of Antoine Le Claire.
10th. That this had been accomplished by what the complainant called "a circle of conveyances," as 1st, a quit claim
deed from Dessaint to Ebenezer Cook, dated July 27th,
1859; 2d, from Ebenezer Cook to one George L. Davenport, by deed dated December 16th, 1859; 3d, from George
Davenport to Joseph A. Le Claire, Junior, by deed with
special warranty only, dated January 23d, 1862, made in
pursuance of a written contract of Antoine Le Claire with
his nephew, Joseph A. Le Claire, Senior, dated November
21st, 1860, and in consideration of the payment, by the
estate of Antoine, of two notes of E. Cook for $10,000, the
payment of which was assumed, or alleged to have been
assumed, by the said George Davenport.
This, in the complainant's language, "completed one
circle of operations."
11th. That, on the other hand, Antoine Le Claire, on the
9th of March, 1860,-o2e day after the expiration of the
twelve months within which May, by the terms of the compromise with Le Claire had bound himself to convey Rosebank unincumbered to him, Le Claire, offering to convey
what he, on his part, was bound to convey, made a curt
written demand on May -for "a good and sufficient deed for
Rosebank, and that all the incumbrances, judgments, and
liens of every character be removed from said Rosebank, so
that I get a clear, perfect, and unincumbered title therefor." [Rosebank, as the reader will remember, having at
this time been sold some months before under the deed of
trust.] That shortly, to wit, seventeen days afterwards, to
wit, on the 27th of March, 1860, Le Claire entered into a
written contract with Adrian Davenport, by which it was
agreed that he, Le Claire, should resume title and possession of the property sold and conveyed by him to the said
Dvenport; that the notes given by Davenport should be

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cancelled and he discharged from liability, and that, as a
means to this end, Le Claire should proceed to foreclose his
mortgage and buy in the property at the sale under the
mortgage; it being agreed that if at the foreclosure sale the
property should sell for more than the amount of the notes
and interest, Davenport was to have the overplus; if for
less, the notes were to be given up; that if Le Claire should
acquire the title as proposed, he agreed to confirm the sales
of certain parts of the property which Davenport had made;
a map being ,referred to as showing the premises so sold.
That Davenport assigned to Le Claire and placed in his
hands notes.of his vendees for part of the purchase-money,
amounting, with interest, to about $16,000; Davenport stipulating that there were no offsets against any of the notes,
except two of trifling amount, which were mentioned, and
that if it should prove there were any valid offsets, he would
pay the amount to Le Claire, and Le Claire agreeing that,
upon the payment to him of the balance of the purchasemoney by Davenport's vendees, he would convey to those
holding title bonds from Davenport.
That, accordingly, in April, 1860, proceedings to foreclose
the mortgage were instituted by the said John P. Cook;
that to facilitate the proceedings, Davenport admitted the
allegations of the bill, and a decree pro confesso was entered against him and subsequently liquidated at the sum
of $41,708.32. That all this was done without notice to
May; and that, under this decree, the mortgaged property
was subsequently sold and conveyed by the sheriff to Le
Claire for $20,000.
This completed what the counsel styled "the other circle
of operations."
Thus by what the complainant styled "the joint effect of
two parallel series of operations," Le Claire became possessed
of both of the equivalents agreed to be exchanged between
him and May, by the compromise of March 8, 1859, in payment of the admitted debt of about $27,000 from him to
May; that is to say: Le Claire had paid his debt to May in
fall; he, or his relative, Le Claire, Junior, held Rosebank

Dec. 1870.]

MAY V. LE CLAIRE.
Statement of the case..

by a free and unincumbered title; he still held the island
and river-shore property below the town of Le Claire; and
had got back all the Davenport property, which he agreed
to convey, and did convey, to May.
May, on the contrary, had nothing as the result of the
whole operations except a suit in chancery.
Still the great question of the case remained, whether what
had occurred was the result, on the one hand, of Le Claire's
superior attention and vigilance, within proper limits, and
of an unembarrassed condition as to money; and on the
other, of May's supineness, bad arrangements, and embarrassed condition; whether the combination of persons was
purely accidental, or whetlier there was contrivance and
design ; in other words, whether each part was so connected
with the whole, that, taken together, they furnished clear evidence that the result was contemplated from an early date,
and that after the compromise had been made in good faith,
and partially executed by both parties, the plan to break it
up was conceived as an afterthought by J. P. Cook, a lawyer,
and executed under his direction by Powers, Dessaint, Ebenezer Cook, the two Davenports, and the two J. A. De
Claires, Senior and Junior?
Especially arose the question, how far had Antoine Le Claire,
who the case rather showed was an old and perhaps illiterate
half-breed Frenchman-part Indian-an interpreter in early
times, who had grown rich by the growth of a large town,
on land granted to him many years since by the bounty of
the United States-how far had he originated the scheme,
if it was one; or, if not originating it at all, how far was he
to be affected by what was done by J. P. Cook and the
others, assuming that what they did was a fraudulent scheme
successfully carried out?
This was a matter depending largely on the relations subsisting between J. P. Cook, old Le Claire, and the various
parties already named.
As to that matter, it appeared,
1. That Powers, the trustee who sold Rosebank, was a
banker; that the firm of J. Cook & Sargent, which was com-

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

posed of the lawyer . P. Cook, his brother, Ebenezer Cook,
and one Sargent, were also bankers; that Powers was in the
habit of borrowing money from Cook & Sargent, and so
under obligations to them pecuniarily.
2. That Antoine Le Claire had no lineal descendants; and
that Joseph Le Claire was his nephew and business agent,
occupied the same office with him, and, under the permission of Antoine Le Claire, was in the actual occupation of
Rosebank, after the agreement of May and Le Claire,-receiving the rents.
3. That George Davenport and Antoine Le Claire were
intimate in their business relations, indorsers for each other,
and both of them indorsers for Cook & Sargent to a considerable amount, and also indorsers for Ebenezer Cook.
4. That Dessaint was a Frenchman and an intimate friend
of Le Claire, and in the habit of lending him money.
5. That Ebenezer Cook, Antoine Le Claire, George Davenport, and Dessaint, were associated in business as stockholders and directors of the State Bank.
6. That Cook & Sargent having failed, George Davenport
was one of their assignees, and that Antoine Le Claire had
appointed him by will one of his executors.
7. That John P. Cook was the agent and attorney of Le
Claire; selected by him as the custodian of the papers relating to the matter in controversy; the subscribing witness,
as already said, to the compromise agreement of March 8,
1859, and to the assignment to May, dated March 10, 1859;
drew and dated the agreement, March 27, 1860, between Le
Claire and Adrian Davenport, in regard to the Davenport
mortgage; was one of the attorneys who, on the 24th day
of April, 1860, commenced the action for Le Claire to foreclose the Davenport mortgage, and procured the decree;
as attorney, held the collaterals until after Le Claire's death,
and delivered them to the executor; as attorney of Le Claire,
attended the sale of the mortgaged property under the decree in favor of Le Claire v. Davenport, and after Le Claire,
the nephew, bid off the property, that he directed the deed
to be made to Antoine Le Claire.

Dec. 1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
Statement of the case.

8. That at the time, 16th of December, 1860, when Ebenezer
Cook (as already mentioned on p. 221), conveyed Rosebank
to George Davenport, the judgment in favor of John P.
Cook against May (mentioned on p. 220), was assigned-to
Davenport; the consideration, according to the statement of
Davenport, having been that he agreed to pay a bill and note
of Ebenezer Cook, on which he -andLe Claire were liable
as accommodation indorsers, both bill and note dated 20th
October, 1859; maturing, respectively, three and four months
from date, and both renewed by Davenport and Le Claire,
Davenport admitting that Le Claire had paid at that time
$1000 upon one of them.
9. That, in these money operations, the relations between
some of the parties named, if not all, were quite confidential. For example: before their failure, Cook & Sargent,
on the 21st of August, 1858, "in consideration of $70,000,
executed to Antoine Le Claire a mortgage upon a large quan-

tity of real estate." The mortgage recites that Le Claire
had accepted various sums for their accommodation, and
proposed to indorse and accept other and further sums for
them, with the view of enabling them to borrow mbney on
such acceptances. The condition was that they should pay
these liabilities, and save Le Claire harmless. On the 22d
of December, 1859, after their failure, they sold and assigned
to Le Claire -the banking-house of Cook, Sargent, Downey &
Co., in Iowa City, and all the assets of that firm. The deed
recites that Le Claire "had made and executed certain notes,
drafts, and acceptances for the accommodation of Cook &
Sargent, and was now liable to pay the same." No condition
or trust was expressed. On the 12th of December, 1860, in
consideration of $15,000, they assigned to George Davenport their interest in the assets of the firm of Cook, Sargent
& Parker, of Florence, in the Territory of Nebraska, and
covenanted that the interest thus transferred was worth
$15,000. On the 2d of July, 1861; by a deed, absolute on
its face, Le Claire conveyed to Dessaint a large number of
tracts of land. An article of agreement, dated the 15th of
the same month, recited, however, that the prior conveyVOL. XI.

15

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for Mfay.

ance had been made in trust to enable Dessaint to sell and
pay a debt of Le Claire to the Merchants' Branch of the
State Bank of Iowa, and Dessaint stipulated that, after accomplishing this object and paying the expenses of the trust,
he would reconvey to Le Claire.
Le Claire himself being dead, leaving a life interest in his
estate to his wife, Marguerite (who with the George Davenport already named were found to be executors), and the
remainder to collaterals, residents some abroad, May now
filed this bill against both the executors, the two Cooks,
Dessaint, Sargent, and such collateral devisees of Le Claire
as he could reach (these being about half of those inheriting
under the will), praying for specific performance, or alternatively for compensation in money, by way of substitution;
and for such other relief as the court might see fit.
The case came here on a printed transcript of 612 pages;
a confused mass of papers and record entries thrown together
without regard to order or method. It appeared to have
been originally made up by the clerk of the court below, or
his deputy, for transmission to this court in twelve separate
parcels, not inappropriately described in the clerk's certificate as a "bundle of papers." Many of the exhibits, together
with certain accounts produced or identified by the witnesses, appeared in the transcript entirely separated from
the depositions of which they formed a part, and without
anything to connect them therewith.
lNotwithstanding the character of the transcript the case
was presented with clearness, and was elaborately argued
by Mr. J. A. Wills,for the appellant,and by Messrs. M. EI. Carpenter and J. N. Rogers, contra: Mr. Wills contending that
it was not necessary to go into minute particular facts to
infer fraud; that the case was one which it was impossible
to view, even in outline, as a whole, without seeing a fraudulent contrivance-argued ihat the fraud being unkennelled,
equity would certainly, in some form, grant relief; that if
specific performance could not, in the complications which,
with time, deaths, transfers of property, absence of parties

Dec. 1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
Opinion of the court.

defendant, &c., be decreed, and if the fraudulent proceedings should thus of necessity have to stand, then that taking
things, though fraudulent, on the base where the parties
had put them, Le Claire's estate could be followed for the
fruits of them in the hands of his executors, and so made to
respond.
The counsel of the other side, asserting that the proof of
fraud consisted only in an artful collocation of facts, and
denying that fraud was proved, and especially that there was
anything to show that, in this matter, Cook had acted as
agent of Le Claire-so as to charge Le Claire's estate with a
fraud committed by attorney-contended that the bill was defective in not bringing in all Le Claire's devisees; that specific performance was almost confessedly impracticable, and
that if compensation in money was asked, the case became
a claim for damages, and a case therefore for law, not for
equity; that even if a case for equity, May had lost his rights
by supineness in not paying off the overdue trust-deed incumbrance, time being of the essence of his contract to
Powers under the trust-deed; but that if this was not so, and
if he still asserted rights in .Rosebank, he should file a bill
to redeem.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity from the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa. The
record is in a singularly defective and confused condition.
But the case has been fully argued upon the merits by the
counsel upon both sides, and finding enough in the record,
upon looking carefully through it, to enable us to dispose of
the controversy between the parties satisfactorily to ourselves without further delay, we do not deem it necessary to
reverse and remand the cause, as we might otherwise do, in
order that the record may be corrected and by a further
appeal be brought up in the proper condition.*
* Levy v. Arredondo and others, 12 Peters, 218; Mandeville v. Burt, 8 Id.
256; Harrison v. Nixon, 9 Id. 483; Finley v. Linn, 6 Cranch, 252; Lewis
v. Darling, 16 Howard, 1.

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case involves no legal question of any doubt or difficulty. Its determination depends wholly upon the facts.
The testimony and exhibits are very voluminous. It could
serve no useful purpose elaborately to analyze them and set
forth the results in this opinion. We shall content ourselves
with doing little more than to announce our conclusions.
We shall not deem it necessary to give in detail the evidence
upon which they are founded or the processes of argument
by which they are supported.
The proposition submitted by May, of the 4th of February, 1859, its acceptance on the 8th of March following by
Le Claire, since deceased, and the assent of May on the
same day, constituted a valid contract. There was a large
difference in value between what Le Claire was to give and
what he was to receive. But we have found in the record
nothing which raises a doubt that the arrangement was fair
and just to both parties. Le Claire was a man of property
and of experience in business. The date of the proposition
and of its acceptance show that he took ample time to consider the subject. The acceptance was witnessed by John
P. Cook, his counsel, and one of the defendants in this case.
According to the face of the proposition it involved the settlement of unadjusted demands on both sides. It was made
in a spirit of peace and compromise, and was accepted in a
corresponding spirit. It is the duty of a court of equity to
uphold such an agreement, to protect and enforce the rights
of both parties under it, and to carry it out as far as the
facts, which subsequently occurred, and the settled principles of our jurisprudence, will permit.
On the 10th of March Le Claire, in pursuance of the contract, indorsed to May the notes and mortgage of Adrian H.
Davenport, and placed them, with certain collaterals which
he had received from Davenport to secure the payment of
the notes, in the hands of Cook & Sargent. At the same
time May, also, in pursuance of the contract, executed to Le
Claire a deed conveying the Rosebank farm, and placed it
in the hands of the same depositaries.. Cook & Sargent
were to deliver to each party what the other had deposited

Dec. 1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

for bim as soon as May should have removed all incumbrances from the farm, which he was bound by the contract
to do within a year from its date. Wrhen Le Claire made
his deposit he took from Cook & Sargent a receipt stating
its object and terms.
The firm of Cook & Sargent consisted of John P. Cook,
Ebenezer Cook, his brother, and George B. Sargent. They
were bankers. On the 21st of August, 1858, they executed
to Le Claire a mortgage upon a large quantity of real estate.
The consideration stated is $70,000. The mortgage recites
that Le Claire had "accepted various sums for the accommodation of Cook & Sargent, and proposes to indoise and accept
other and further sums for them, with the view of enabling
them to borrow money on such acceptances." The condition
was that they should pay these liabilities and save Le Claire
harmless. Cook & Sargent subsequently failed.' On the
22d of December, 1859, they sold and assigned to Le Claire
the banking-house of Cook, Sargent, Downey & Co., in Iowa
City, and all the assets, real, personal, and mixed, of that
firm. The consideration stated is, that Le Claire "has made
and- executed certain notes, drafts, aid acceptances for the
accommodation of Cook & Sargent, and is now liable to pay
the same." No condition or trust is expressed. On the
12th of December, 1860, Cook & Sargent assigned to the
defendant, George L. Davenport, their interest in the assets
of the firm of Cook, Sargent & Parker, of Florence, in the
Territory of Nebraska, and covenanted that the interest thus
transferred was worth the sum of $15,000. On the 2d of
July, 1861, by a deed, absolute on its face, Le Claire conveyed to the defendant, Louis C. Dessaint, a large number
of tracts of land. On the 15th of the same month an article
of agreement was entered into between them, wherein it
was .recited that the prior conveyance had been made in
trust to enable Dessaint to sell and pay a debt of Le Claire
to the Merchants' Branch of the State Bank of Iowa, and
Dessaint stipulated that, after accomplishing this object and
paying the expenses of the trust, he would reconvey the
residue of the lands to Le Claire. These transactions show

MAY V. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

the relations of the parties at the dates of their occurrence, and in that view are not without importance in this
case.
The incumbrances on the Rosebank farm consisted of a
deed of trust, executed by May to Charles Powers, since deceased, to secure a note of May to W. H. & A. T. Strippel,
for $6550, payable, with interest, on the 1st of May, 1858;
a mortgage to George F. Kettle to secure a note of Aay to
him of $3125, with interest after due, payable on the 10th
of November, 1857; and the liens of several judgments not
necessary to be particularly specified. At the time the contract between May and Le Claire was entered into, Le Claire
was well satisfied with the arrangement. Subsequently he
became dissatisfied. John P. Cook afterwards denounced
it, and declared that, as the friend and attorney of Le Claire,
he considered it his duty "to protect Le Claire as far as possible against so gross an imposition." The most obvious
and effectual way to accomplish that object was to sell the
Rosebank farm under the deed of trust, and thus put it out
of the power of May to fulfil his part of the contract, and
this purpose those concerned in the scheme proceeded to
carry out.
In this connection we lay out of view the important declarations of Powers, the trustee, as incompetent against the
other parties.
On the 12th of April, 1859, Adrian H. Davenport, regarding May as the owner of his notes and mortgage, which Le
Claire had assigned and deposited, as before stated, submitted to May a written offer for a settlement and compromise, which May declined.
On the 28th of July, 1859, John P. Cook bought from
Powers the note and mortgage of May to Kettle, and gave
in payment his note for $3255.87, indorsed by Le Claire
and Ebenezer Cook. Cook, the assignee, sued May on the
note in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois and recovered a judgment.
The day after May executed his deed to Le Claire he delivered possession of the Rosebank farm to Le Claire, and

Dec. 1870.]

MAY V. LE CLAIRE.
Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

has not since had possession or any control over the premises, or any benefit from them.
On the 20th of July, 1859, Powers, the trustee, sold this
property under the deed of trust. The evidence leaves no
doubt in our minds that his conduct in making the sale was
grossly fraudulent. He knew that May had arranged for
funds more than sufficient to discharge the debt due to his
cestid que trusts, which were ready to be paid over as soon as
May could deliver to the lender, as se~urity, two of the
notes of Davenport. We are satisfied that, with ordinary
candor and fair dealing on the part of Powers and the other
parties implicated, the debt secured by the deed of trust
could have been speedily discharged, and all the other incumbrances removed.
But such was not the object of Le Claire and his associates, of whom Powers was clearly one. In the midst of
the negotiation between May and Powers at the bankinghouse of Powers, with funds present, and ready to be paid
over by May on the condition stated, Powers, upon the receipt of a note from John P. Cook, left abruptly, under a
false pretence, and made a surreptitious sale of the property
to Dessaint for $5000. A deed was ready, with a blank for
the name of the purchaser, and the blank was at once filled
with the name of Dessaint. The consideration mentioned
in the deed is the amount of his bid. The promises of
Powers to annul the sale upon the payment of the debt were
obviously false, and intended only to deceive and quiet May
for the time being. Measures were taken to keep away
competing bidders. The amount of the debt was $7400.
Dessaint testifies that he bought under an agreement with
Powers that he should pay the full amount of the debt; that
Powers should procure to be assigned to him May's liability
for the difference between the amount of the debt and the
amount at which the property should be struck off to him;
and that he paid the full amount of the debt to Powers.
This feature of the transaction requires no comment. Whether Dessaint was privy to the other frauds of Powers or
not, a subject upon which we can hardly entertain a doubt,

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

he took the title in trust for May, and subject to all May's
rights, as they were before the sale and conveyance were
made by Powers.*
On the 27th of July, 1859, Dessaint conveyed by a deed
of quit-claim to Ebenezer Cook. The evidence satisfies us
that Cook had full notice of the frauds of Powers and of the
infirmities of Dessaint's title. Whether this were so or not,
having acquired his title by a quit-claim deed, he cannot be
regarded as a bond fide purchaser without notice. In such
cases the conveyance passes the title as the grantor held it,
and the grantee takes only what the grantor could lawfully
convey.t Cook occupied the same relations to the property
as Dessaint, his grantor.
Cook, on the 16th of December, 1860, conveyed to George
L. Davenport. At the same time the judgment in favor of
John P. Cook against May was assigned to the grantee.
The conveyance and assignment were one transaction. The
consideration, according to the testimony of Davenport, was
that he agreed to pay a bill and note of Ebenezer Cook, on
which he and Le Claire were liable as accommodation parties. The bill and note were dated on the 20th of October,
1859. They matured, respectively, three and four months
from date. Both were renewed by Davenport and Le Claire.
Davenport admits in his testimony that Le Claire paid at
that time $1000 upon one of them.,
On the 21st of iNovember, 1860, Antoine Le Claire bound
himself by a written contract to convey the property to his
nephew, Joseph Le Claire. In this condition of things Antoine Le Claire died. He left no lineal heirs. By his will
he gave the usufruct of his entire estate to his wife, the defendant, Maguerite Le Claire, during her life. The residue
he gave, in undivided shares, to a large number of devisees.
Only a few of them are parties to this litigation. Davenport
testifies that Antoine Le Claire made a parol contract with
him for the Rosebank farm, and, as the consideration of the
purchase, agreed to pay the liabilities of Ebenezer Cook,
* Jeremy's Equity, 95.

t

Oliver v. Fiatt and others, 3 Howard, 363.

Dec. 1870.]

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.
Recapitulation of facts in the opinion.

which Davenport had assumed, and that his estate has since
paid them.
On the 23d of January, 1862, Davenport conveyed the
premises to Joseph A. Le Claire, Jr., pursuant to directions
from Joseph A. Le Claire, the vendee of Antoine Le Claire.
The deed contains a covenant against all persons claiming.
under the grantor, and none other.
John P. Cook was the counsel of Le Claire in all his
transactions touching this property. He knew everything
that was done, and his knowledge was notice to his client.*
But we are well satisfied, by the facts and circumstances developed in the evidence, that both he and George'L. Davenport had full actual knowledge. After a careful consideration of the subject, we have found ourselves unable to come
to any other conclusion. The testimony of Davenport is
guarded and peculiar. Twice during his examination he
declined to answer a question 'until time was allowed him to
advise with his counsel. The proofs establish the frauds
alleged in the bill.t
If Le Claire did not actively participate in the frauds perpetrated upon May, he coolly looked on, and deliberately
gathered what others had sown for him. The result was
that he acquired the Rosebank farm unincumbered, and put
it out of the power of May to comply with his contract.
The year within which May was to convey the farm to
Le Claire, unincumbered, expired on the 8th of March, 1860.
On the next day Le Claire gave a formal written notice to
May whereby he tendered performance on his part, and demanded performance by May. May was unable to fulfil, and
Le Claire knew it. The notice was an idle ceremony.
The liabilities of Adrian H. Davenport, which Le Claire
had assigned to May and deposited with Cook & Sargent,
cou.sisted of five notes of $7060 each, making an aggregate
of $35,000, with interest. Le Claire withdrew them from
the depositaries and cancelled the assignment. On the 27th
* Le Neve v. Le Neve, 2 White's Leading Cases in Equity, 23.
t Clark's Executors v. Van Reinsdyk, 9 Cranch, 153; S. C., 1 Gallison,
630; Jackson v. King, 4 Cowen, 220; Butler v. Haskell, 4 Dessausure, 684.

MAY V. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

of March he entered into a new contract with Davenport,
whereby it was stipulated as follows: Le Claire was to resume the title and possession of the property for which the
notes and the mortgage securing them were given, provided
the property could be relieved from the liens upon it, of
judgments against Davenport. To this end Le Claire was
to foreclose the mortgage, and if at the foreclosure sale the
property should sell for more than the amount of the notes
and interest, Davenport was to have the overplus. If it
should bring less the notes were to be released. If Le
Claire should acquire the title as proposed, he agreed to confirm the sales, which Davenport represente d he had made,
of certain portions-of the property. A map was referred to
as showing the premises so sold. Davenport assigned to Le
Claire, and placed in his hands notes of the vendees for part
of the purchase-money, amounting, with interest, to about
$16,000. Davenport stipulated that there were no offsets
against any of the notes, except two of trifling amount, which
were mentioned, and that if it-should. prove there were any
valid offsets, he would pay the amount to Le Claire. Le
Claire agreed that, upon the payment to him of the balance
of the purchase-money by Davenport's vendees, he would
convey to those holding title-bonds from Davenport.
This agreement was carried out. A suit of foreclosure
was instituted by Le Claire, and the property was sold to
him for less than the amount due on the notes of Davenport.
The property was thus divested of all incumbrances, and
his original title was restored to him. John P. Cook, as
the counsel of Le Claire, conducted the legal proceedings.

May was not consulted about the agreement between Le
Claire and Davenport, and was not a party to the foreclosure suit.
It has been suggested by the counsel for the appellees
that if May still has the rights which he claims in respect to
the Rosebank farm, he should file a bill to redeem, and
having succeeded, should tender a conveyance of the property in performance of his contract with Le Claire instead

Dec. 1870.]

MAY V. LE CLAIRE.
Opinion of the court.

of prosecuting this suit. That course is unnecessary. Le
Claire has already had the ownership, control, and full benefit of the property, and disposed of it as he thought proper.
A court of equity can do no more than he did for himself.
It is not pretended that there was any incumbrance upon
the property when it was conveyed by George L. Davenport
to Joseph A. Le Claire, Jr.
Upon the execution of the contract between May and Le
Claire, Le Claire became in equity the owner of the farm.
The effect of the element of fraud in his subsequent conduct
is, that he must be regarded as constructively the trustee
and agent of May in removing the incumbrances and acquiring the ownership and beneficial control of the property.
Hence his estate is entitled to be credited with his advances
and interest instead of the aggregate of the debts extinguished, and interest on that amount. Under the eireumstances, time was not of the essence of the contract on the
part of May, and when this liability has been accounted for
to Le Claire's estate, the contract on May's part must be
held to have been fully performed. May has had no benefit
from this property since the date of his contract, and none
from what he was to receive from Le Claire. On the contrary, he has been engaged in a long and expensiv.e conflict
for the assertion of his rights, and that contest is not yet
terminated. Viewing the subject in the light of these facts,
we think he is entitled to be credited with annual rent and
interest from the time he parted with the possession of the
farm to Le Claire.
At law, in many cases, if property be tortiously taken or
converted, the tortfeasor may be sued in trespass or trover,
or the injured party may waive the tort and sue in assumpsit. In the latter case the same results follow as if there
had been an implied contract. The plaintiff is not permitted
to set up his tort to defeat the action, and the recovery of
a judgment will bar a further action ex delico by the plaintiff.* In the same class of cases where the converted prop* Putnam v. Wise, 1 Hill, 240, note; Hill v. Davis, 3 New Hampshire,
884; Stockett v. Watkins's Administrator, 2 Gill & Johnson, 326, 342.

MAY v. LE CLAIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

erty has assumed altered forms by successive investments,
the owner may follow it as far as he can trace it and sue at
law for the substituted property, or he may hold the wrongdoer liable for appropriate damages.*
There are kindred principles in equity jurisprudence,
whence, indeed, these rules of the common law seem to
have been derived. Where a trustee has abused his trust
in the same manner, the cestui que trust has the option to
take the original or the substituted property; and if either
has passed into the hands of a bond fide purchaser without
notice, then its value in money. If the trust property comes
back into the hands of the trustee, that fact does not affect
the rights of the cestui que trust. The cardinal principle is
that the wrong-doer shall derive no benefit fr'om his wrong.
The entire profits belong to the cestui que trust, and equity
will 'so mould and apply the remedy as to give them to him.
In cases of specific performance, to which category the
one before us belongs, parties are sometimes remitted to a
court of law. But this is niever done where the remedy is
not as effectual and complete there as the chancellor can
make it. Equity sometimes takes jurisdiction on account
of the parties, and sometimes on account of the relief proper
to be administered.
The same considerations which invoke the jurisdiction
may control the remedy.
In this case more than half the residuary devisees of Antoine Le Claire are not before us. We cannot, therefore,
decree the conveyance of real estate, but his legal representatives are before us, and we can give a money decree against
them, embracing the value of the land, which we might
otherwise adjudge to be conveyed.t It is not necessary
that the devisees should be parties to warrant such a judgment. The presence of the executors is sufficient for that
purpose.
Adrian H. Davenport, as well as te Claire, had full notice
* Taylor v. Plummer, 8 Maule & Selwyn, 562.

t Peabody et al. v. Tarbell, 2 Cushing, 233; Andrews v. Brown, 3 Id.
131 ; Fry on Specific Performance, 447, 457; 1 Story's Equity, H 788, 789.

Dec. 1870.]

Dec.
MAY
870.]v. LE CLAIRE.
Decree of the court.

of the rights of May in respect to the securities embraced in
their compromise. All those securities, including the collaterals, belonged in equity to May from the time they were
deposited with Cook & Sargent.- Le Claire had no right to
change their form or to dispose of them, as was done in
carrying out the compromise agreement. It is within the
power of this court, in the exercise of its equitable jurisdiction, to annul that-arrangement, and hold Davenport and
Le Claire's estate liable in all respects as if the compromise
had not been made. But it is also in our power to confirm
the transaction, and upon the principles of constructive
trusts to give May its fruits instead of pursuing the effiects
themselves. This, as the case is presented in the record,
we deem the proper course. Le Claire's estate must account
for the proceeds of the $16,000 of notes, with interest from
the time he received them. As we cannot require the land
which he bought at the foreclosure sale to be conveyed, his
estate must account for its present value. As he violated
his agreement with May, and put it out of his power to give
May in specie so large a portion of the consideration May
was 'entitled to receive, May is not bound to take the other
parcels of real estate mentioned in the contract and which
Le Claire bound himself to convey, and it is within the
scope of our jurisdiction to give May, in money, the present
value of that property also instead of the property itself.
We deem it proper, under the circumstances, to do so, and
Le Claire's estate must account accordingly. The collection
of the judgment against May upon his note to Kettle, recovered by Cook, must be perpetually enjoined.
An account must be taken by a master, wherein Le
Claire's estate must be debited with the rent of the Rosebank farm annually and interest down to the time when the
account is taken.
With the amount realized from the $16,000 of notes and
interest to the same period.
With the value, at the same time, of the land bought in
at the foreclosure sale by Le Claire, other than that pre-

THE

FANNIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

viously sold by Davenport, the title to which Le Claire took
in trust for Davenport's vendees.

With the value, at the same time, of the other parcels of
land mentioned in the agreement between Cook and Le
Claire and which Le Claire bound himself to convey to
May.
Le Claire's estate must be credited with the amount paid
on account of the bill and note of Ebenezer Cook, with interest to the same time.
The balance in favor of May, with interest from that time,
Le Claire's executors must be required to l ay to May.
These conclusions will do justice to May without disturbing the interests of any third person outside of the sphere
of Le Claire's estate.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree and proceed IN CONFORMITY TO THIS
OPINION.

Mr. Justice MILLER took no part in this judgment,
having in the early stages of the case been counsel of May,
below.

THE FANNIE.
I A schooner meeting a steamer approaching her on a parallel line, with the
difference of half a point in the courses of the two, held, in a collision
case, upon the evidence, to have kept on her course, and therein to have
done what she ought to have done.
2 A.steamer approaching a sailing vessel is bound to keep out of her way,
and to allow her a free and unobstructed passage. Whatever is necessary for this, it is her duty to do, and to avoid whatever obstructs or
endangers the sailing vessel in her course. The obligation resting on
the sailing vessel is passive rather than active, the duty to keep on her
course. If, therefore, the sailing vessel does not change her course, so
as to embarrass a steamer and render it impossible, or at least difficult,
for her to avoid a collision, the steamer alone is answerable for the damages of a collision, if there is one.

