THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tended to disregard this distinction in its legislation, even
-were that practicable, as it was not.
My conclusion is that the judgment of the court below
was erroneous, and should be reversed.

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.
1. The acceptance by the collector of a false and fraudulent bond given for
the removal of distilled spirits from a bonded warehouse, will not prevent a forfeiture of such spirits under the 45th section of the Internal
Revenue Act of July 18th, 1866, which forfeits "distilled spirits found
elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, not having been removed therefrom according to law."
2., The removal will be illegal if effected by means of a false and fraudulent
bond.
8. The 48th section of the Internal Revenue Act of June 80tb, 1864, as
amended by the act of 1866, which forfeits "all goods, wares, merchandise, articles or objects," if found in possession of any person in
fraud of the internal revenue laws, &c., is applicable to distilled spirits
notwithstanding the forfeiture of spirits is provided for in a distinct
series of sections relating thereto in the same law, or in a supplementary law.
4. All the sections can stand together; and where that is the case one does
not repeal or supersede the other, as repeals by implication are not
favored.
5. The rule that notice to the agent is notice to the principal applies not
only to knowledge acquired by the agent in the particular transaction,
but to knowledge acquired by him in a prior transaction and present
to his mind at the time he is acting as such agent, provided it be of
such a character as he may communicate to his principal without
breach of professional confidence.
6. Where distilled spirits forfeited to the United States are mixed with
other distilled spirits belonging to the same person (ignorant of the
forfeiture) they are not lost to the government by such mixture, either
on the principle of confusion of goods, or transmutation of species,
even though subsequently run through leaches for the purpose of rectification. The governmept will be entitled to its proportion of the
result.

Ix error to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case being this:
The 48th section of the Internal Revenue Act of June

Dec. 1870.]

THE DISTrLLED SPIRITS.
Statement of the case.

30th, 1864,* as amended by an act of July 13th, 1866, enacts that*
"All goods, wares, merchandise, articles or objects, on which
taxes are imposed by the provisions of law, which shall be
found in the possession, or custody, or within the control of any
person or persons in fraud of the internal revenue laws, or with
design to avoid payment of said taxes, may be seized, &c., and
shall be forfeited to the United States."
The 45th section of this later actj enacts that
"All distilled spirits found elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, not having been removed from such warehouse according

to law, and the tax imposed by law not having been paid, shall
be forfeited."
By the 42d section of the same act a penalty is imposed
on persons executing any false and fraudulent bond or other
document for the purpose, among other things, of withdrawing from any bonded warehouse any spirits or other
merchandise, or which shall be used in fraud of the internal
revenue laws. By this section the property is forfeited and
"theparty executing the document made liable to imprisonment.
The act of 1864 contained no specific provisions for the
forfeiture of distilled spirits. The act of 1866 in certain
sections (that is to say, in sections from 40 to 45) made provisions about them, including cases in which the government would be entitled to a forfeiture of such spirits. One
section, the 40th, enacted that distilled spirits when inspected might be removed, under bond, without payment
of tax, from the bonded warehouse of the distiller to any
general bonded warehouse. Another, the 41st, that spirits
or other merchandise might be removed from bonded warehouse for the purpose of being exported. Another, 'the
42d, already quoted, makes penal the making of any false
bond or other document to evade payment of the tax; an* 13 Stat. at Large, 223.

t"14 Id. 163.

TnE DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

other, the.43d, that owners of distilled spirits intended for
sale, manufactured before the date of the act, shonld give
notice to the collector to gauge and prove them ; another,
the 44th, that forfeited spirits should be disposed of by the
commissioner of internal revenue; and another, the 45th,
as already mentioned, that all distilled spirits found elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, not having been removed from such warehouse according to law, and the tax
unpaid, should be forfeited.
With these various provisions on the statute-book, the
United States filed an information stating that the collector of internal revenue at Boston, in April, 1867, had
seized 278 barrels of distilled spirits as being forfeited by
removal from a bonded warehouse without paying the tax
due thereon.
The first count of the informatidn was founded on the
45th section of the act of July 13th, 1866, and alleged that
the spirits were found elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, not having been removed therefrom according to
law, and the taxes not having been paid.
The second and third on the 48th section of the act of
June 30th, 1864, as amended by act of July 13th, 1866, and
alleged that the spirits were in the possession of one Harrington, for the purpose of being sold in fraud of the internal
revenue laws, and with design to avoid the payment of
taxes.
Subsequently, Harrington appeared and claimed 124 of
the barrels, and a certain Boyden the remainder; and they
pleaded that none of the goods became forfeited as alleged
in the information, and that the allegations therein were not
true. Issue was taken on each of these pleas. It appeared
in proof, that in April, 1867, a large quantity of spirits were
withdrawn from the United States bonded warehouses in
Boston upon the pretence of an intent to transport the same
to Eastport, Maine, for exportation thence. False and fraudulent bonds were given therefor, and the spirits were never
attempted to be transported to Eastport, but were removed
for consumption and sale in Boston and its vicinity, and the

Dec. 1870.]

THE

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

Statement of the case.

taxes were not paid. The government contended that the
spirits seized were parcel of this lot, and that the claimants
were parties to, or cognizant of, the fraud. The clainiants
contended that part of the spirits in controversy were not a
portidn of the spirits fraudulently withdrawn, but were from
different and distinct lots, and that the spirits claimed by
Harrington had been rectified in leaches in which various
lots were mixed, including, possibly, some of the lot fraudulently withdrawn, which it was impossible to identify.
They further claimed that the spirits were bought in open
market without knowledge of the fraud, and that such of
the fraudulent lot as Harrington had bought, he bad bought
through Boyden as his agent. Evidence was given on both
sides, tending to prove these several points.
The claimants requested the court to instruct the jury as
follows:
"1. That if the spirits had been deposited in a United States
bonded warehouse, and bad been removed therefrom upon application to the collector of the district in which they were
situate, and by his authority, for rectification or.transportation
for exportation, they are not liable to forfeiture.
"2. That if the said spirits had been removed from a United
States bonded warehouse, upon application to the collector of
the district, and upon the furnishing of bonds which were satisfactory to and accepted by bim, and upon permission thereupon
granted by the collector, and were seized before the expiration
of the time allowed for rectification or transportation, the spirits
are not liable to forfeiture.
"8. That if the said spirits had been removed from a United
States bonded warehouse according to the forms of law, viz.,
upon application made in due form to the collector for leave to
withdraw, and upon bonds being given in the prescribed fbrm,
and permission thereupon given in due form for their removal,
and said spirits had been bought by the claimants of the party
withdrawing, or his agent, without knowledge of the fact that
the bonds were worthless, or that said spirits were removed
from the warehouse with intent to defraud the government,
they are not liable to forfeiture.
"4. That if a portion of the spirits proved in this case not to

THE

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

have paid a tax had passed through the rectifiers in which there
were other spirits, and so become mixed with them, no portion
of the spirits, when rectified, would be liable to forfeiture."
The court declined to give the first and second of these
instructions, but gave the third, with this qualification, that
if Boyden bought the spirits as agent for Harrington, and
Boyden was cognizant of the fraud, Harrington would be
bound by his knowledge.
It declined to give the fourth instruction as prayed for,
and instead of it instructed the jury that:
"If the rectified spirits came from vats and rectifiers in which
the spirits so fraudulently withdrawn, or any portion, were
mixed with other lots of similar spirits of the claimants, so that
they could not be distinguished, the government were entitled
to the forfeiture of a fair proportion of these spirits, although
the mixture might have been innocently made, provided the
jury were satisfied of such facts as would, under the instructions of the court, forfeit the spirits so fraudulently withdrawn
if they had not been so mixed; and if the jury were satisfied
of such facts, and also found the spirits so fraudulently withdrawn were mixed with other similar spirits of the claimants
by them fraudulently, with knowledge of the fraud committed,
for the purpose of destroying the identity of the spirits and
defrauding the government, and were so mixed that they could
not be distinguished and identified, that the entire quantity of
this mixture seized was forfeited to the United States."
To the above rulings, and refusals to rule, the claimants
took exceptions. The jury found against 50 barrels, claimed
by Harrington, and all those claimed by Boyden; and the
court decreed accordingly. On appeal to the Circuit Court,
that court affirmed the decree. The case was now here on
error.
Mr. R. M. Morse, Jr.,for the claimants:
The question raised by the refusal of the presiding judge
to give the first and second instructions prayed for by the
claimants is, whether, upon the facts conceded by the gov-

Dec. 1870.]

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.
Argument for the claimants.

ernment, the latter were entitled to a forfeiture under either
of the sections of the statute under which the information was
framed.
We submit that upon the facts conceded by the government, the forfeiture could be had only under section 42, on
which, however, no count in the information is founded.
It will be noticed that the act of June 80th, 1864, contained no specific provisions for the forfeiture of distilled
spirits. Under the act, therefore, all proceedings for forfeiture of spirits must have been brought under section 48.
But the act of July 13th, 1866, provides in sections 40 to 45,
inclusive, for all cases where the government would be entitled to a forfeiture of spirits. Hence, to give proper effcct
to these sections, which else would be meaningless, it must
be assumed that section 48 of the act of 1864, as amended
by the act of 1866, was intended to apply not to all goods,
but to all goods except those for which specific provision
was made in the subsequent sections. If this view is correct, then the counts under section 48 of the act of 1864, as
amended, cannot be maintained.
The third and fourth prayers relate to the issues of fact
submitted to the jury.
The questions of fact in controversy were:
1st. Whether the claimants, or either of them, were parties to the fraudulent withdrawal of the spirits from the
warehouses.
2d. Whether they were cognizant of it.
3d. Whether the spirits seized were a part of the spirits
fraudulently withdrawn.
4th. Whether they had been mixed with other liquors
and then rectified; and,
5th. Whether such mixture, if made, was innocently or
fraudulently made.
The fair inference from the verdicts, taken in connection
with these instructions, is, that the jury found that Boyden
was cognizant of the fraud, but not that he was a party to
it, and that Harrington had no knowledge of the same; and
that some part, if not the whole, of the spirits sdized could

THE

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ot

Argument for the claimants.

not be identified with the spirits originally withdrawn from
the warehouses in violation of law.
We considei first the third prayer for instruction, which
had relation only to the claim of Harrington.
The only question to be considered is, whether the knowledge of the agent at any time obtained and not communicated to the principal, is to be held to be the knowledge of
the principal so as to subject to forfeiture under a severe
penal statute, merchandise liable to forfeiture, by the terms
of the act itself, only when the principal has knowledge of
the fraud.
There is some conflict in the authorities upon this point;
but the weight of authority establishes the rule to be, that
the principal is not affected by the knowledge of the agent,
unless the knowledge is acquired by the agent while in the
employ of the principal and in the course of the very transaction in which he is employed. This doctrine was laid
down in 1729, in Fitzgerald v. Fauconberge.* In Lowther v.
Carlton,f Lord lardwicke said:
"If a counsel or attorney is employed to look'over a title,
and if by some other transaction, foreign to the business in
band, has notice, this shall not affect the purchaser."
The doctrine was affirmed by the same judge in Warrick
v. Warrick,t and in Worsley v. Earl of Scarborough;ยง by Lord
Erskine in hiern v. Mill,1I and by Lord Eldon in Mountford
v. Scotl. f In .Kennedy v. Green,** Lord Brougham held that
a client was not to be held cognizant of a fraud, although his
solicitor was the contri'er and actor in the same, because the
solicitor's knowledge was not obtained in the course of his
employment for that client.
-In the United States the weight of authority is in support
of the same doctrine.tt
Ilb. 392.
3 Id. 294.
f 2 Atkins, 242.
3 Maddock, 34.
Jr. 120.
3 Mylne & Keene, 699; see also Wilde -e. Gibson, 1 House of Lords
Cases, 605.
"tFarmers' and Citizens' Bank v. Payne, 25 Connecticut, 444; Bank of
United States v. Davis, 2 Hill, 452; New York Central Ins. Co. v. National
* Fitzgibbon, 211.

II 13 Vesey,

Dec. 1870.]

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.

Argument for the claimants.

In England, however, it has been held that when one
transaction is clearly followed by and connected with another, or when it is clear that a previous transaction is present
to the mind of the agent when engaged in another transaction, there is no ground for the distinction by which the
rule that notice to the agent is notice to the principal had
been restricted to the same transaction.* But this relaxation of the rule has not generally obtained in the United
States. The courts of Vermont, N~ew Hampshire, South
Carolina, Alabama, and Illinois are the only ones that have
supported it; and in none of the decisions of these States
does it appear that the American authorities were examined.
But even if the court should adopt the modification of the
rule, as stated in Hargreaves v. .Rothwell and Dresser v. .LYorwood, yet the instruction was wrong, as it failed to give the
qualification which is held in those cases to be essential to
affect the principal with the prior knowledge of his agent,
to wit: that it must appear that the previous transac;ion is
present to the mind of the agent when engaged in another
transaction, or that one transaction is clearly followed by
and connected with another so that that fact may necessarily
be inferred.
The fourth instruction prayed for applies to the case of
both claimants.
Both the prayer for instructions and the instruction of
the presiding judge in the District Court assumed that the
spirits were mixed with other spirits in the rectifiers, so that
they could not be distinguished. The case being one of a
loss of identity of the original offending spirits, we submit
Prot. Ins. Co., 20 Barbour, 468; Brown -. Montgomery, 6 Smith, New
York, 287; Jaclkson v. Sharp, 9 Johnson, 163; Hood v. Fahnestock, 8
Wtatts, 489; Bracken v. Miller, 4 Watts & Sergeant, 111; Winchester v.
Baltimore Railroad Co., 4 Maryland, 231 ; United States Insurance Co. V.
Shriver, 3 Maryland Ch. 381 ; Willis v. Vallette, 4 Metcalfe, 186; Keenan
v. Missouri Ins. Co., 12 Iowa, 126; Bierce v. Red Bluff Hotel, 81 California,
160.
* Hargreaves v. Rothwell, 1 Keen, 158; Leneban v. McCabe, 2 Irish
Eq. 342; Fuller v. Benett, 2 Hare, 894; Dresser v. Norwood, 17 C. B.,
N . S. 466.

THE

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that neither the new species nor any part of it is liable to
forfeiture, and this whether the mixture was innocently
made or for the purpose of destroying the identity.
Mr. B. G. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr.
Assistant Attorney- General, contra.

. 1R. Hill,

Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The claimants insist, in the first place, that no recoyery
can be had under the infbrmation on the conceded facts of
the case. The information contained three counts relied on:
one on section 45 of the act of July 18th, 1866, and two on
section 48 of the act of June 30th, 1864, as amended by act
of July 18th, 1866. The first-named section declares that
"all distilled spirits found elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, not having been removed from such warehouse according to law, and the tax imposed by law not having been
paid, shall be forfeited." The first count charges that the
spirits in question were thus found. It is insisted that they
were removed according to law.
We do not think that a removal procured by a false and
fraudulent bond, though accepted by the collector, was a
removal according to law, and we fail to perceive how the
spirits which were thus withdrawn from the bonded warehouse can be exempted from the operation of this section.
The other section, on which the second and third counts
were framed, declares that "all goods, wares, merchandise,
articles or objects, on which taxes are imposed by the provisions of law, which shall be found in the possession, or
custody, or within the contr ol of any person or persons in
fraud of the internal revenue laws, or with design to avoid
payment of said taxes, may be seized, &c., and shall be fbrfeited to the United States." It is insisted that this section
does not apply to distilled spirits, inasmuch as they are provided for in a different part of the act by a distinct series of
sections.
An examination of the act of 1864 will show that the first
fifty-two sections are of a general character, intended to

Dec. 1870.]

THE

DISTILLED SPIRITS.

Opinion of the court.

apply to all taxes imposed by the act, and that the 48th section is especially of that character, and applies to distilled
spirits as well as all other articles. By the .act of 1866 this
section was amended in a manner not material to the question at issue. When thus amended it still stood as it did
before, having the same office and the same general application. The addition in the act of 1866 of several new sections relating to the removal of distilled spirits from a
bonded warehouse, and imposing penalties and forfeitures
for giving fraudulent bonds fQr that purpose, or for illegally
removing the spirits, does not deprive the 48th section of
the act of 1864"of its general application. There is nothing
incongruous or repugnant between it and the new sections.
Both can stand, and an information may be founded on both
or either, whenever the facts will admit. It is a very common thing for cumulative remedies to be thus provided.
The act of 1868, which revises the entire revenue law relating to spirits and tobacco, furnishes a striking instance of
this. After providing for a large number of specific forfeitures, or forfeitures for specific breaches of the law, it follows up the subject by sections of the most general nature,
so framed as not to admit ofany possible escape or evasion,
and which necessarily include most of the cases before specifically provided for. Statutes in pari materia, like the acts
of 1864 and 1866, are to be construed together, and repeals
by implication are not favored if the acts can reasonably
stand together.
The other points made by the claimants relate to the
charge given by the court to the jury. Passing over the
first and second instructions prayed for, which are not insisted on, and are not tenable if they were, the third and
fourth demand attention. The substance of the third instruction prayed for was, that if the spirits were removed
from the warehouse according to the forms of law, and the
claimants bought them without knowledge of the fraud,
they were not liable to forfeiture. The court charged in
accordance with this prayer with this qualification, that if
Boyden bought the spirits as agent for Harrington, and was

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup.
[Spat Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cognizant of the fraud, Harrington would be bound by his
knowledge. The claimants insist that this is not law.
The question how far a purchaser is affected with notice
of prior liens, trusts, or frauds, by the knowledge of his
agent who effects the purchase, is one that has been much
mooted in England and this country. That he is bound
and affected by such knowledge or notice as his agent obtains in negotiating the particular transaction, is everywhere
conceded. But Lord Hardwicke thought that the rule
could not be extended so far as to affect the principal by
knowledge of the agent acquired previously in a different
transaction.* Supposing it to be clear, that the agent still
retained the knowledge so formerly acquired, it was certainly making a very nice and thin distinction. Lord Eldon
did not approve of it. In Mountfiord v. Scott,t he says: "It
may fall to be considered whether one transaction might
not follow so close upon the other as to render it impossible.
to give a man credit for having forgotten it. I should be
unwilling to go so far as to say, that if an attorney has
notice of a transaction in the morning, he shall be held in a
court of equity to have forgotten it in the evening; it must
in all cases depend upon the circumstances." The distinction taken by Lord Hardwicke has since been entirely overruled by the Court of Exchequer Chamber in the case of
-Dresser v. Norwood.t So that in England the doctrine now
seems to be established, that if the agent, at the time of
effecting a purchase, has knowledge of any prior lien, trust,
or fraud, affecting the property, no matter when he acquired
such knowledge, his principal is affected thereby. If he acquire the knowledge when he effects the purchase, no question can arise as to his having it at that time; if be acquired
it previous to the purchase, the presumption that he still
retains it, and has it present to his mind, will depend on the
lapse of time and other circumstances. Knowledge communicated to the principal himself he is bound to recollect,
but he is not bound by knowledge communicated to his
* Warrick v. Warrick, 3 Atkyns, 291.

17 Common Bench, N. 8. 466.

t 1 Turner & Russell, 274.

Dec. 1870.]

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.
Opinion of the court.

agent, unless it is present to the agent's mind at the time
of effecting the purchase. Clear and satisfactory proof that
it was so present seems to be the only restriction required
by the English rule as now understood. With the qualification that the agent is at liberty to communicate his knowledge to his principal, it appears to us to be a sound view of
the subject. The general iule that a principal is bound by
the knowledge of his agent is based 6n the principle of law,
that it is the agent's duty to communicate to his principal
the knowledge which he has respecting the subject-matter
of negotiation, and the presumption that he will perform
that duty. When it is not the agent's duty to communicate
such knowledge, when it would be unlawful for him to do
so, as, for example, when it has been acquired confidentially
as attorney for a former'client in a prior transaction, the
reason of the rule ceases, and in such a case an agent would
not be expected to do that which would involve the betrayal
of professional confidence, and his principal ought not to be
bound by his agent's secret and confidential information.
This often happened in the case of large estates in England,
where men of great professional eminence were frequently
consulted. They thus became possessed, in a confidential
manner, of secret trusts or other defects of title, which they
cbuld not honorably, if they could legally, communicate to
subsequent clients. This difficulty presented itself to Lord
Hardwicke's mind, and undoubtedly lay at the bottom of
the distinction which he established. Had he confined it to
such cases, it would have been entirely unexceptionable.
The general tendency of decisions in this country has been
to adopt the distinction of Lord flardwicke, but it has several
times been held, in consonance with Lord Eldon's suggestion, that if the agent acquired his information so recently
as to make it incredible that he should have forgotten it, his
principal will be bound. This is really an abandonment of
the principle on which the distinction is founded.* The case
* Story on Agency,
140; Hovey v. Blanchard, 13 New Hampshire, 145;
Patten v. Insurance Co., 40 Id. 375; Hart v. Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank,
83 Vermont, 262.

THE DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of Hart v. Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank,* adopts the rule
established by the case of Dresser v. Norwood. -ther cases,
as that of Bank of United States v. Davis,t .New York aentral
Insurance Co. v. National Protection Co.,t adhere to the more
rigid view.ยง
On the whole, however, we think that the rule as finally
settled by the English courts, with the qualification above;
mentioned, is the true one, and is deduced from the best
consideration of the reasons on which it is founded. Applying it to the case in hand, we think that the charge was substantially correct. The fair construction of the charge is,
that if the jury believed that Boyden, the agent, was cognizant of the fraud at the time of the purchase, Harrington,
the principal, was bound by this knowledge. The precise
words were "that if Boyden bought the spirits as agent for
Harrington, and Boyden was cognizant of the fraud, Harrington would be bound by his knowledge." The plain and
natural sense of these words, and that in which the jury
would understand thern, we think, is that they refer to Boyden's knowledge at the time of making the purchase. Thus
construed the charge is strictly in accordance with the law
as above explained. There was no pretence that Boyden
acquired his knowledge in a fiduciary character.
This result is arrived at independent of the question
whether an innocent purchaser without notice can, in any
case, claim precedence of the title of the United States arising by forfeiture.

It has frequently been held that he cannot

do so in cases of statutory forfeitures ensuing from acts done
or omitted.11 But as this point was not argued or raised we
do not put the case upon it.
We see no error in the fourth instruction given. It needs
1 20 Barbour, 468.
f- 2 Hill, 452.
See cases collected in note to American edition of 17 Common Bench,
N. S., p. 482, and Mr. Justice Clifford's opinion in the Circuit Court in the
present case.
11United States v. Grundy, 3 Cranch, 838; Same v.1960 Bags of Coffee, 8
Crandh, 398; Fontaine v. Phenix Insurance Company, 11 Johnson, 293;
Kennedy v. Strong, 14 Id. 128; The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheaton, 416;
The Florenzo, 1 Blatchford & Howland, 60.
* 33 Vermont, 252.

Dec. 1870.]

BANK V. LANIER.
Statement of the case.

no learned examination of the doctrine of confusion or mixture of goods to make it apparent that if certain spirits belonging to the government by forfeiture are voluntarily
mixed with other spirits belonging to the same party and
passed through the process of rectification in leaches, he
cannot thereby deprive the government of its property; and
if the government only claims its fair proportion of the rectified spirits, he certainly cannot complain of injustice. The
only result of applying the doctrine of confusion of goods
would be to forfeit the entire mixture. And it cannot be
claimed that the process of rectification in leaches effects
such a transmutation of species as to destroy the identity of
the liquor. If, after the mixture and before the rectification,
a certain proportion of the spirits belongs to the United
States, they will not lose that proportion by the spirits being
passed through the leaches for the purpose of rectification.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BANK V. LANIER.
1. National banks as governed by the National Currency Act of June 3d,
1864, which act repeals the National Currency Act of 1863, can make novalid loan or discount on the security of their own stock, unless necessary to prevent loss on a debt previously contracted in good faith.
2. The placing by one bank of its funds on permanent deposit with another
bank, is a loan within the spirit of this enactment.
3. Loans by National banks to their stbckholders do not give a lien to the,
bank on the stock of such.stockholders.
4. A bank whose certificates of stock declare the stockholder entitled to so,
many shares of stock, which can be transferred on the books of the corporation, in person or by attorney, when the certificates are surrendered,
but not otherwise, and which suffers a stockholder to transfer 'to anybody on the books of the bank his stock, without producing and surrendering the certificates thereof, is liable to a bond fide transferee for
value, of the same stock, who produces the certificates with properly
executed power of attorney to transfer; and this is so although no notice
have been given to the bank of the latter transfer.
IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana;
the case being thus:
VOL. x1.

24

