COOKa

v.

B URNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement-of the case.

a line bounded on the lagunas is the same as bounded on
the bay. It seems in this case quite plain that the grant
to Cano was bounded or intended to be bounded on the
bay, as the first line given in the description of the tract
commences on the bay and terminates at the place of beginning, following down the bends of the Laguna Madre,
which designates the bay or great lake of Matagorda.
There were other exceptions taken in the case to the
rulings of the court in the progress of the trial, such as motions to postpone the trial, and to change the venue, which
it is not material to notice further than to say, that they are
not available on a writ of error.
After the best consideration we have been able to give to
the case, we think the're is no error in the judgment below,
and it must be
AFFIRMED.

SAME CASE.
1. An application to an inferior court to supply a lost record, being matter
addressed to its discretion, is not a subject for writ of error.
2. If after a lost record of a case where judgment below has been affirmed,
is supplied in the inferior court, final process issue in accordance with
the mandate sent to such court on the affirmance, the action of the court
in granting such process will not be reviewed here.

THE judgment which is above reported as having been
affirmed, was so affirmed at the December Term, 1867. A
mandate accordingly issued to the court below, reciting the
judgment of this court, and directing that "such execution
and proceedings be bad in said cause, as according to right
and justice and the laws of the United States ought to be
had, the said writ of error notwithstanding." This mandate
was presented to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Texas, and ordered to be recorded; and Porter, who was
now the surviving plaintiff, with the executors of his deceased co-plaintiff Burnley, applied to the court for writs
of possession. But as the records of the court below had

Dec. 1870.]

COOK v.BURNLEY.
Statement of the case.

been destroyed by fire during the late war, affidavit was
made of that fact, and a carefully certified copy of the transcript in this court was presented, with a motion to have it
received in lieu of the original. The plaintiffs also presented a sworn copy of the original petition, and asked to
have it established as the petition in the cause. The defendant objected to the allowance of this motion, and assigned several grounds of objection of a technical character.
But the Circuit Court ordered that the motion be sustained,
and that a writ of possession issue. The defendants then
gave notice that they would prosecute "a writ of error therefrom;" i.e. from the order, and the court fixed the amount
of the bond at $7000, and "allowed thirty days for the filing"
of the same. This order is entered 'December 18, 1869.
No bond having been filed or copy of writ of error lodged
in the clerk's office up to January 1, 1870, the plaintiffs
directed the issue of a writ of possession, which was issued;
whereupon the defendant, Cook, applied by petition to the
district judge, in chambers, at Austin, July 23, 1870, for a
writ of supersedeas; and upon his petition an order was
made for such writ, enjoining the marshal from executing
tte writ of possession, a copy of which order was served
on the attorneys of plaintifi.
The allegation in Cook's
petition, upon which this supersedeas was granted, was that
he had sued out a writ of error and executed a bond, which
was approved "in due and usual form in such cases," so
that the order of the district judge must be understood as
affirming this position.
The writ of error, and a copy of the bond and citation, were
filed or "lodged" with the clerk of the Circuit Court on
January 7, 1870, or twenty days after the judgment was rendered, but appeared to have been allowed and approved by
the district judge on the 28th of December, 1869.
Mr. W. G. .Hale,for himself, and Mr. W. B. Ballinger, now
moved:
I. To dismiss the writ of error in said cause for the following causes, apparent in said record:
VOL. XI.

43

Coox v.

BURNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1st. The said writ of error is not prosecuted from any
final judgment in this cause.
2d. That it is brought to reverse an order enforcing a
mandate of this court, and not to reverse any judgment,
order, or proceeding of the Circuit Court, from which a writ
of error can lawfully be prosecuted to this court.
I. In case said writ of error be not dismissed, then that
the court set aside and discharge the supersedeas to the writ
of possession issued from said Circuit Court, or direct said
Circuit Court so to do.
Mr. Thomas Wilson, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Final process is never issued by this court in the exercise
of its appellate jurisdiction, except in cases where a State
has once refused to execute the mandate of the court. Instead of that the mandate is transmitted to the subordinate
court, and where the directions contained in the mandate
are precise and unambiguous, it is the duty of the subordinate court to carry it into execution, and not to look elsewhere to change its meaning.*
Two causes are assigned for the motion to dismiss the
present writ, which is a second writ of error in the case sued
out by the same party: (1.) Because the writ of error is not
prosecutea from any final judgment in the cause. (2.) Because the writ is sued out to reverse an order of the Circuit
Court carrying into effect the mandate of this court.
Where the subordinate court commits any substantial
error in executing the mandate of the Supreme Court, it is
well-settled law that a second writ of error or appeal, as the
case may be, will lie to correct the error, and to cause the
mandate to be executed according to its tenor and effect.t
Ejectment was brought on the 13th of June, 1859, by the
present defendants, or one of them and the testator of the
* Skillern v. May, 6 Cranch, 267; Ex parte Story, 12 Peters, 339; West
v. Brashear, 14 Peters, 51; Curtis's Commentaries, 405.
SM c Micken v. Perin, 20 Howard, 135; Roberts v. Cooper, lb. 481.

Dec. 1870.]

COOK V. :BURNLEY.
Opinion of the court.

other two, in the District Court of the United States for that
district, to recover the possession of certain lands described
in the petition filed in that court on that day. Process was
issued, and the same having been served, the defendants
appeared and made defence, and the parties went to trial.
Under the rulings of the court the verdict and judgment
were for the plaintiffs, and the defendants sued out a writ
of error and removed the cause into this court.
Prior to the institution of that suit Texas was divided into
two judicial districts, called the Eastern and Western, and
the acts of Congress creating those districts provided to the
effect that the district judge, whether sitting in the one or
the other, might exercise Circuit Court powers.*
Subsequent to the removal of the cause into this court,
Texas was included in the sixth circuit, and all acts which
vested in the District Courts of the United States for the
District of Texas the power and jurisdiction of Circuit Courts
was repealed, and the third section of the act provided that
all actions, suits, prosecutions, causes, pleas, process, and
other proceedings relative to any cause, civil or criminal,
. . . shall be and are declared to be respectively transferred,
returnable, and continued to the several Circuit Courts constituted by that act.t
When 'reached in order, the cause as removed here by the
first writ of error was heard, and this court affirmed the
judgment rendered by the District Court before the acts of
Congress giving that court Circuit Court powers were repealed. Judgment was entered in that court on the 30th
of June, 1859, before the State was included in the sixth
circuit, but the act including the State in the sixth circuit
passed before the judgment was affirmed in this court. Consequently the mandate of this court was transmitted to the
Circuit Court of that district, as required by the third section of the act.
Reference to the present record will show that the mandate as transmitted was duly received and recorded, and of
* 9 Stat. at Large, 1; 11 Id. 164.

t 12 Star. at Large, 576.

676

CooK v.

BURNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

course the judgment was duly affirmed, but objection is
taken by the defendants in the judgment to the subsequent
action of the court.
Suggestion was made by the plaintiffs in the suit that the
original petition was lost, and they moved for leave to file
a copy of the same, and for a writ of possession to carry the
judgment as affirmed into execution.
Objection was made by the defendants to the motion, and
the parties having been heard, the court took the matter
under advisement, but finally passed an order that the copy
of the original petition filed by the plaintiffs be adjudged to
be the petition therein, and that the writ of possession, as
prayed for, do issue. Such was the decision of the court,
and the same was subsequently entered as a decree, and the
defendants sued out a writ of error, and removed the cause
into this court to reverse that decree. Sued out, as the writ
of error was, to reverse that decree, the present defendants
have filed a motion to dismiss it for the reasons assigned,
and the court is of the opinion that the motion must be
granted.
Nothing can be more certain, in legal decision, than the
proposition that an application to supply a lost writ, declaration, or other pleading, if accompanied by proof of loss,
is in general addressed to the discretion of the court, and it
is well-settled law, that decisions which rest in the discretion
of a court of original jurisdiction, cannot be re-examined in
an appellate court upon a writ of error.*
Secondary evidence of a lost record, as well as of any other
instrument, is admissible after proof of the loss; but in this
case the plaintiffs filed a copy from the record of the case
transmitted to this court, and the Circuit Court was quite
right in allowing the loss of the petition to be supplied.t
Certainly it was not error to grant a writ of possession,
* Liter v. Green, 2 Wheaton, 306; Silsby v. Foote, 14 Howard, 218;
MIorsell v. Hall, 13 Id. 212; United States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 12; Jenkins
v. Banning, 23 Howard, 455; Mandeville v. Wilson, 5 Cranch, 15; Spencer
v. Lapslcy, 20 Howard, 264.
j- 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 12th ed. 509.

Dec. 1870.]

COOK v.

B URNLEY.

Opinion of the court.

as that was but executing the express directions of the mandate, and surely it will not be argued that it was error to
order to be done what this court had commanded should be
done by its mandate.
Suppose all the foregoing conclusions are correct, still-it

is contended that the writ of error cannot be dismissed because it is a writ of error sued out under the twenty-second
section of the Judiciary Act, which, it is said, brings up the
whole record.
Undoubtedly, it is true that the first writ of error was sued
out under that'section, and that such a writ does bring up
the whole record, and it is well settled that it is no ground
to dismiss the writ of error because there is no bill of exceptions, agreed statement of facts, or material demurrer in
the record presenting any question of law for the decision
of the appellate court, as the absence of every such question
is good cause for affirming the judgment, but it is not a good
ground for dismissing the writ of error.*
Grant that, still the second writ of error, though issued
under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, does
not bring up the whole record for re-examination. On the
contrary, it is equally well settled that the second writ of
error brings up nothing for revision except the proceedings
subsequent to the mandate; and it follows that if those proceedings are merely such as the mandate commanded, and
were necessary to the execution of the mandate, the writ of
error will be dismissed, as any other rule would enable the
losing party to delay the execution of the mandate indefinitely, which cannot be admitted.
MOTION TO DISMISS GRANTED.

* Taylor v. Morton, 2 Black, 484; Minor et al. v. Tillotson, 1 Howard,
287; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Id. 441.

