STEINBACH V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

less found they could not do; but on the same day they
applied for the writ of attachment, which was issued and
served on the following day. No other persons in Cairo
could have known of the shipment of the corn, or Sherwood, Karng & Company's connection with it, and it is idle
to suppose the marshal would have made the levy without
the special instructions of the plaintiffs in the suit. Besides,
it was their interest to keep their proceedings as secret as
possible, for fear the officers of the boat might get knowledge of them and avoid landing at Cairo. But this is not
all, for they told Booth that they attached the corn, and the
marshal paid them the net proceeds of the sale of it. Surely
nothing more is necessary to show that the levy and sale
were at their instance, and there is no evidence at all to the
contrary.
These views dispose of the case, and the judgment is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

STEINBACH v. STEWART ET AL.
1. A decree of the District Court of the United States confirming a claim to
land under a Mexican grant in California contained a proviso that the
confirmation to the claimant should be without prejudice to the rights
of the legal representatives of the original grantee, or whoever might
be entitled to the land under him, and should enure to the benefit of
any person, or persons, who might own or be entitled to the land by
any title, either at law or in equity, derived from the original grantee
by deed, devise, descent, or otherwise. On appeal to the Supreme Court
the decree, so far as it confirmed the original grant, was affirmed:
Held, that this language of the Supreme Court did not annul the proviso to the decree, but left it in full force; and that the decree accordingly gave to parties holding under the original grantee or the confirmee the same benefits which it gave to them in the perfection of
their title.
2. In August, 1846, the confirmee, V., executed an instrument, and delivered it to one H., wherein he uses these words, after certifying that
he had purchased the tract of land designated of the original grantee:
"Igrant and transfer all the right whch I have in the land mentioned to H.,
who shall make such use thereof as may be most eonvenient to him ;"
Held, that the instrument, construed by the Mexican law in force in Cali-

Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACH V.

STEWART.

Statement of the case.
fornia at the time of its execution, was a conveyance of all V.'s title,
and not a mere license to H. to occupy the land.
3. In a deed of land from H. to D., the premises were described as -' ono
mile square of land, English measure, containing six hundred and forty
acres, situated, lying, and being in the district of Sonoma, and being
part and parcel of all that certain tract of land called Agua Caliente,
formerly taken up by Lazaro Pefla, by a grant from the government."
When this deed was offered in evidence it vas shown that the grantee,
D , at the time of his purchase from his grantor, H., took possession of
the tract thus conveyed, and occupied it, and that all the subsequent
grantees under him, of whom there were several, at the date of their
respective conveyances took possession of the same tract and remained
in the open and notorious possession of the same until they parted with
their respective interests; lHei,that the deed, accompanied by this
evidence of identification and occupation of the land, was properly admitted.
4. The statements of a grantor of land, made after he has conveyed the land
to others, are inadmissible to invalidate his deed.

E RRot to the Circuit Court for the District of California.
This was an action of ejectment for a tract of land situated
in the State of California. Issues having been joined the
case was called on for trial before a jury, and evidence was
introduced by the respective parties. After all the evidence
on both sides was concluded, the attorneys of the .parties
who had appeared in the action stipulated that the jury
should be discharged, and that the issues be tried and determined by the court. The jury were accordingly discharged,
and the facts established were substantially as follows: On
the 14th day of October, 1839, one Lazaro Pefia presented
a petition to tlie commandant general of the department
of California for a grant of land situated in the present
county of Sonoma, ifithat State, known by the name of
AguA Caliente, of which land Pefia had been years previously in the possession; and the commandant gave to him
a provisional concession of the land until he should peti-.
tion the government for the proper title. Afterwards, on the
13th day of October, 1840, Pefia obtained a grant of the
land from Alvarado, then governor of the department of
California, and on the 8th day of October, 1845, this grant
was approved by the Departmental Assembly. Pending the

STEINBACH V.

STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

proceedings to obtain the grant the petitioner, Peha, sold
and conveyed all his interest in the land to one M. G. Vallejo. Subsequently, March 2d, 1853, Vallejo presented a
petition to the board of land commissioners, created under
the act of March 3d, 1851, for a confirmation of his claim
under the grant. By the board his claim was rejected; but
afterwards, on appeal, the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of'California confirmed his claim.
The decree of confirmation was entered on the 13th July,
1859, and was accompanied by the following proviso:
"Provided, that this confirmation of the -above land to the
said 1. G. Vallejo shall be without prejudice to the rights of
the legal representatives of Lazaro Pefia, the original grantee,
or whoever may be entitled to said lands under him; and said
confirmation to said Vallejo shall enure to the benefit of any
person or persons who may own or be entitled to said land by
any title, either at law or in equity, derived from the original
grantee by deed, devise, descent, or otherwise."
Afterwards, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the tnited
States, this decree was affirmed in so far as it confirm-ed ihe
orignialgrant. The tract thus confirmed embraced the premises in controversy.
On the 17th of January, 1863, Vallejo, for the consideration of $3000, sold and conveyed his interest in the entire
tract to the plaintiff Steinbach, and the deed was duly recorded under the laws of California in the recorder's office
of the county. On the 5th of February, 1864, Vallejo executed for the like consideration a second deed of the same
premises, which -was also duly recorded in the same office.
Four of the defendants, namely, G. W. Whitman, Martha
C. Watriss, C. V. Stewart, and J. B. Warfield, claimed each
a portion of these premises under Vallejo, through an instrument executed by him to one Andres Hoeppener, on the
12th of August, 1846. The original wvas in Spanish, and
was indorsed on the espediente of Pefia. The following is
a correct translation of the document:
"The undersigned certifies that he legitimately and formally

Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACH V. STEWART.
Statement of the case.

purchased from the citizen Lazaro Pefia the tract of land of the
'Agua Caliente,' to which the preceding approval of the Departmental Assembly of Alta California has reference. I grant
and transfer all the right which I have in the land mentioned
to Don Andres Hoeppener, who shall make such use thereof as
may be most convenient to him. And for the necessary pui:poses
and uses I give this, at Sonoma, this 12th day of August, 1846.
"Mt. G. YALLEJO.
"Witness:

A. A. HENDERSON,
"J. P. LEESE."
It was at the time admitted that Pefia had previously executed a deed of the tract to Vallejo, bearing date December
4th, 1839, and that at the time the deed from Vallejo to
Hoeppener was executed Hoeppener received full possession
of the premises from Vallejo, and continued thereafter in
the possession until the land was sold by him.
The counsel for plaintiff objected to the reception of this
document in evidence, on the ground that the same did not
convey any estate from Vallejo to Hoeppener, but was a
mere license to occupy, which terminated and was extinguished when Hoeppener asserted title to or attempted to
convey the lands; which objection was overruled by the
court and the evidence admitted, to which ruling an exception was duly taken.
The counsel for the defendants then, on the part of the
defendant, Whitman, offered in evidence a deed from TIoeppener to Carlos Glein, dated December 1st, 1847, together
with various mesne conveyances, by which the title acquired
by said Glein had passed to and vested in said Whitman.
In the deed from HIoeppener to Glein the land intended to
be conveyed is described as follows:
,,All that certain tract and parcel of land containing three
hundred acres, more or less, being a portion of the rancho
named Agua Caliente, as transferred to the said Andres Hoeppener by MI. G. Vallejo; the said three hundred acres being
more particularly bounded and described as follows, to wit: On
the west side by Sonoma Creek, on the east side by the Napa

STEINBAC H V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Hills, on the north by Ycltan's farm, and on the south by the
land of Ernest Rufus."
The defendants' counsel then proved, on the part of the
defendant Whitman, that Glein, at the time of his purchase
from IIoeppener, took possession of the tract thus conveyed
(and which is the same tract held and possessed by Whitman), and that said Glein, together with all his successive
grantees,J.in cluding Whitman, at the date of their respective
conveyances, paid a valuable consideration therefor, and
took possession of the tract, and remained in the open and
notorious possession of the same until they parted with their
interests therein; but that Whitman had never parted with
his interest therein; and that, at the date of the conveyance
from Yallejo to Steinbach of his interest in the Agua Caliente rancho, he (Whitman) was in the open and notorious
possession of the tract, claiming to own the same.
The plaintiff's cpunsel objected to the admission of this
deed in evidence, because it did not import to convey the
title to any particular tract of land; that it created no legal
estate, and was therefore incQmpetent evidence-to prove any
issue made in this action, and was irrelevant and immaterial.
The court overruled the objection and admitted the evidence; to which ruling of the court exception was duly
taken.
The counsel for the defendants then, on behalf of the defendant Watriss, offered a deed from Hoeppener to J. J.
Dopken, dated November 14th, 1846, together with various
mesne conveyances, by which the title acquired by the said
Dopken had passed to and vested in the said Watriss. In
the deed from Hoeppener to Dopken the land intended to
be conveyed is described as follows:
"One mile square of land, English measure, containing 640
acres, situated, lying, and being in the district of Sonoma, and
being part and parcel of all that certain tract of' land called
Agua Caliente, formerly taken up by Lazaro Pefia, by a grant
from the government and lately purchased from the said Lazaro
Pefia by 3i. G. Yallejo, and granted by the said M. G. Vallejo

:Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACH V.

STEWART.

Statement of the case.

unto the aforesaid Andrew Hoeppener, together with all and singular tho advantages, profits, privileges, and appurtenances
whatsoever, right, title, and interest of the said Hoeppener, of,
in, and to the same, belonging or in any way pertaining."
The defendants' counsel then proved, on the part of the
defendant Martha C. Watriss, that Dopken, at the time of
his purchase from Hoeppener, took possession of the tract
thus conveyed (and which is the same tract held and possessed by the said Martha and described in her answer), and
that Dopken, together with all his successive grantees, including the said Martha, at the date of their respective conveyances, took possession of said tract and remhained in the
open and notorious possession of the same until they parted
with their interests therein, but that -Martha had never
parted with her interest therein; and that, at the date of
the conveyances from M. G. Vallejo to Steinbach of his interest in the Agua Caliente rancho, the said Martha was in
the open and notorious possession of tht tract, claiming to
own the same.
To the admission of which deed the counsel for the plaintiff objected that the said deed, by reason of the indefinteness of the said description, was insufficient to convey title or
to create any legal estate; and that it was therefore irrelevant,
immaterial, and inadmissible; which objection the court
overruled and admitted the deed in evidence, in connection
with the testiMony as to the occupation of the particularpremises,
to which ruling an exception was duly taken.
After the defendants had closed their testimony, the plaintiff's counsel offered to prove, by statements made by Hoeppener in 1848, that Hoeppener and Vallejo agreed that Hoeppener should teach Vallejo's family music, for which Vallejo
was to convey him the rancho; that in the meanwhile Hoeppener was to occupy it; that neither Hoeppener nor Vallejo
intended or considered the said instrument as a conveyance,
or more than a license to occupy; that Iloeppener did not
perform his agreement, but, after part perfbrmance, abandoned it, and admitted that he had no claim to the land.
,All which took place in the year 1847-1848.

572

STEINBACH V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The court refused to receive any testimony as to statements of Hoeppener subsequent to the date of his conveyances to others, and excluded the testimony; to which ruling
of the court an exception was duly taken.
The plaintiff also proved that he paid to Vallejo for the
two deeds received from him, as above mentioned, a valuable consideration at the time, and that he made the purchase of the land and received the deeds without knowledge
or notice actual or constructive of any other conveyances of
the premises or of any interest therein by Vallejo, except as
given by the actual, open, and notorious possession and
occupation of the defendants, G. W. Whitman, Martha C.
Watriss, J. B. Warfield, and C.V. Stewart, as above stated.
He also proved that previous to the year 1857 Hoeppener,
above mentioned, died intestate and without issue, leaving
a widow, Anna Hoeppener, who was his sole heir; that on
the 17th of May, 1858, the said Anna, by a deed executed
and delivered, for a valuable consideration sold and conveyed to J. L. Green the tract of land known as Agua Caliente, and which deed was recordrd on the 10th of Jfly,
1863, in the proper recorder's office; and that Green, on
the 2d day of January, 1864, by a deed duly executed and
delivered, for a valuable consideration sold and conveyed
the same property to the plaintiff, and that the deed was
also properly recorded on the 22d day of October, 1864.
The court gave judgment in favor of the four defendants
above named, for the land which they severally had purchased and occupied, and in favor of the plaintiff against all
the other defendants, except those against whom the action
had been dismissed. From this judgment the case was
brought here on writ of error sued out by the plaintiff
Mr. J-. Wilson, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. E. 0. Wheeler
and C.T. Botts, contra.
M r. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The record exhibits five assignments of error, all founded
upon exceptions taken in the court below to the admission

Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACH V. STEWART.
Opinion of the court.

or rejection of evidence. Of these the first is, in substance,
that the court permitted the defendants to give in evidence
what it is contended constituted at most only an equitable
right, and what was, therefore, no defence against the legal
title asserted by the plaintiff. The exception cannot be understood without a -brief examination of the titles under
which each of the parties claimed the lands.in controversy.
The title of the plaintiff had its origin in a provisional
concession made by the Mexican government to Lazaro
Pefia on the 14th day of October, 1839. Pefia was then in
-possession of the land, and the concession was made to him
with the reservation that he should petition for the usual
title from the political government. On the 13th day of
October, 1840, he obtained a grant in the usual form from
Don Juan B. Alvarado, then governor of the department of
CaMfornia, for the land then known by the name of "Agua
Caliente," embracing the land now in dispute, and on the
8th of October, 1845, the grant was approved by the Departmental Assembly. Before it was made, however, though
after the provisional concession, Pefia conveyed all his interest in the land to Mariano G. Vallejo. In 1853 Vallejo
instituted proceedings, under the act of Congress of March
3d, 1851, for a confirmation of the land to him, and it was
confirmed by the District Court in 1859. The decree of
confirmation contained the following proviso: "Provided
that this confirmation of the above land to the said M. G.
Vallejo shall be without prejudice to the rights of the legal
representatives of Lazaro Pe-na, the original grantee, or whoever may be entitled to said lands under him; and said
c6hfirmation to said Vallejo shall enure to the benefit of
any person, or persons, who may own or be entitled to the
said land by any title, either at law or in equity, derived
from the original grantee by deed, devise, descent, or otherwise." The record of the confirmation was subsequently
brought into this court by appeal, and here it was adjudged
that the decree of the District Court, in so far as it confirmed the original grant, be affirmed. It was under this decree of confirmation that the plaintiff claimed, both through

STEINBACH V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a deed of Anna Hoeppener, sole heir of Andres Hoeppener,
an alleged grantee of Vallejo, dated December 21st, 1858, and
secondly, by a deed dated January 17th, 1863, from Vallejo
himself.
The defendants asserted ownership of the parcels of the
rancho ".Agua Caliente," now in controversy, under an
alleged grant made by Vallejo to Andres Hoeppener, dated
August 12th, 1846, about ten months after the grant to
Pena had been approved by the Departmental Assembly.
It thus appears that both parties claimed under Pefia and
Vallejo, and a brief examination will show that the nature
of their titles was the same. If that of the plaintiff was a
legal estate (which it is not necessary to this case to decide),
that of the defendants was equally so. That the right of
Vallejo on the 12th of August, 1846, when lie conveyed the
property to Hoeppener, was not perfect, must be conceded.
His claim had not been confirmed, and he had no patent.
He had nothing but the Mexican espediente. Of course the
right which he conveyed was also imperfect. But when
afterwards the District Court confirmed the land to him, the
confirmation enured to the benefit of his prior grantee. It
was not the acquisition of a new title, but the establishment
of his original right. And this was expressly decreed by
the proviso already quoted. By that it was adjudged that
the confirmation should enure to the benefit of any person
or persons who owned, or were entitled to the land by any
title in law or in equity, derived from the original grantee
by deed, devise, descent, or otherwise. If, therefore, Iloeppener or his grantees held any such title, it was confirmed
to them as truly as if he or they had been petitioners for such
confirmation. N~ow, it is in virtue of this decree of the District Court that the plaintiff claims. He has no standing
without it.. Asserting his rights through it, the law will not
permit him to repudiate any part of its provisions.
It is argued, however, that the proviso to the decree of
confirmation was annulled by the action of this court. To
this we do not assent. The judgment upon the appeal was
that the original grant to Lazaro Pefia was a good and valid

Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACH V.

STEWART.

Opinion of the court.

grant, and that the decree of the District Court, in so far as
it confirmed the original grant, be itself affirmed. This was
no reversal of any portion of the decree of the District Codurt.
On the contrary it left that decree in fall force to all its extent. And by relation it was carried back to the inception
of the title confirmed. It is a well-settled rule that where
several acts concur to make a complete conveyance the original act is preferred, and all others relate to it.* Mr. Cruise,
in his wvorlc on Real Property,t says, "There is no rule
better founded in law, reason, and convenience than this,
that all the several parts and ceremonies necessary to complete a conveyance shall be taken together as one act, and
operate from the substantial part by relation." The proviso was, therefore, nothing more than a declaration of what
would have been the legal effect-of the decree without it.
If, therefore, as is insisted by the plaintiff, the confirmation vested in Vallejo the legal title, it at the same time
vested a legal estate in the grantees of Vallejo, or Pefia,
who held portions of the land under conveyances from the
confirmees.
The second exception taken in the court below is, that the
court received in evidence an instrument of writing, dated
August 12th, 1846, claimed by the defendants to be a grant
of the land by Vallejo to Andres Hoeppener, and this is the
basis of the second assignment of error. The bill of exceptions shows that the execution of the instrument was duly
proved, that it was indorsed upon the espediente to Pelia,
that at the time when the deed was made Hoeppener received
full possession of .the land from Vallejo, and that he continued thereafter in such possession until the land was sold
by him. It is argued that the deed was only a license to
occupy, and not a grant of the land, hence that it was revocable at will, conferring a mere tenancy-at-will and not a legal
estate. Certainly it is a very informal instrument, and were
the rules of the common law to be applied to it there would
be difficulty in maintaining that it was a grant of the fee.
* Viner's Abridgment, 290 ; :Relation.

tVol. 5, pp. 210-11.

STEINBACH

V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is to be noted, however, that its character and effect are
to be determined by Mexican law. It was made before California had been ceded to the United States. In inquiring
what was the intention aod effect of the instrument we are
not, then, to be guided by the rules of the common law or
by the British statute of uses. That it was more than a
license to occupy is plain. Its language is, "I grant and
transfer (cedo y transparo)all the right which I have in the
land mentioned, to Don Andres Hioeppener, who shall make"
(or have) "such use thereof as may be convenient to him."
These are not words of mere license. They describe the
subject of the grant, not as a possessory right, but as "all
the right" of the grantor "in the land." Full effect cannot
be given to all the words of the instrument unless it is held
to be a conveyance of all Vallejo's title. If the intent had
been to transmit less, why describe the subject as all right in
the land ? It is argued that the words following the operative words of transmission to Hoeppener, viz.: "who shall
make such use thereof as may be most convenient to him,"
indicate that no more than a license to occupy was intendd.
They do not appear to us to warrant any such inference.
They, or other words of like import, are common in Mexican grants which have been held to be conveyances of the
entire estate of the grantors.* In the latter case the effect
of such clauses is considerably discussed. Instead of being
words of limitation or restriction, they seem rather intended
to confer the largest dominion. And in our law they have
been held to enlarge into a fee, a devise which, without
them, would have been only a life estate.
If there were any doubts respecting the deed, whether it
was intended as a grant or a license, they would be dispelled
by noticing the construction manifestly given to it by the
parties. This is an aid that may always be called in when
the meaning of a contract is ambiguous.t There was no
* Vide Hayes v. Bona, 7 California, 154; Havens v. Dale, 18 Id. 362; and
Mulford v. Le Franc, 26 Id. 88.
t French v. Carhart, 1 Comstock, 102, and cases therein cited; United
States v. Appleton, 1 Sumner, 502-3.

Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACII V. STEWART.
Opinion of the court.

:necessity for reducing to writing a mere license. Yet this
contract was in the form of a conveyance, reduced to writ-

ing, and indorsed upon the espediente. There was no necessity of livery of seizin if the deed was a mere license, yet
Hoeppener was actually put into possession of the land by
the grantor, and he or his grantees retained the possession
unchallenged, so far as it appears, from August 12th, 1846,
until this suit was brought. Vallejo never claimed any
right until 1863, when he made a grant to the plaintiff, not
of the laud, but of " all his right, title, and interest" in it.
In addition to all this the plaintiff recognized a possible right
in Anna Hoeppener, the heir of Andres Hoeppener, by taking
a deed from her grantee, to whom she had conveyed her"right, title, and estate" in the tract of land, in the year1858. These facts tend strongly to show that the parties.
understood Vallejo's deed as conveying to Hoeppener absolute ownership of the land described in it.
It is insisted, however, that even if the intent was to convey the land, instead of mere license to occupy it, the instrument was ineffectual, because informal. It is said that it did
not contain all the requisites of a valid Mexican grant. It
is doubtful whether this point was made in the court below.
It does not distinctly appear in the bill of exceptions that it
was urged as an objection to the admission of the deed. The.
objection appears rather to have been that Hoeppener obtained by the deed a mere license, which terminated when he:
asserted title to the land, or attempted to convey it. Such
was the reason stated for the objection in the bill tendered bythe plaintiff. But assuming that it is presented for our consideration, we are of opinion the deed contains all that was.
necessary to constitute an operative grant. That it was executed and delivered, and that, in pursuance of it, I-oeppe-ner was put into possession by the grantor, are facts that
are not controverted. This is all that, under the civil law,
is necessary to transfer titles. Livery of seizin is the controlling fact. Admitting that, under the Mexican law, a
contract in writing was necessary to a private conveyance, it
is nevertheless true that the form of the instrument was not
VOL. XI.

37

STEINBACH V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

material. Any form would answer that manifested an intent
to convey. Here were words of grant (cedo y Iransparo). The
word cedo (I grant) is the ordinary word used in Mexican
conveyance to pass title to lands.* Though the earlier cases
in California asserted that the consideration or price of the
grant must be mentioned in the written contract, or, at least,
that it must be mentioned a price was paid, the later cases
have asserted a different doctrine.t It is quite clear that in
no case could mention of a price ever have been deemed
necessary when there was no price-when the transaction
was a gift. In such a case a writing without mention of any
consideration, coupled with livery of seizin, or delivery of
possession, would consummate the transfer. It would answer no good purpose to review the authorities upon this
subject. Suffice it to say, that in view of the language of
the instrument, ofthe facts that Vallejo put Hoeppener into
possession under it, and that the grantee and his successors
in the title remained in unchallenged possession for more
than seventeen years before this suit was brought, we are
constrained to hold that it amounted to a conveyance of all
right to the lands which Vallejo had.
The third assignment of error is founded upon the third exception taken in the court below. It is, in substance, that the
court received in evidence a deed from Hoeppener to Carlos
Glein, dated December 1, 1847. It was offered with sundry
other conveyances, by which the title conveyed to Glein became vested in Whitman, one of the defendants in error. In
the deed from Ioeppener, thus received, the subject of the
grant was described as follows: "All that certain tract and
parcel of land, containing three hundred acres, more or less,
being aportion of the rancho named IAgua Caliente,' as transferred to the said Andres Hoeppener by M. G. Vallejo, the
said three hundred acres being more particularly bounded
and described as follows, to wit: On the west side by Sononia
Creek, on the east side by the Napa Hills, on the north by
Mulford v.Le Franc, 26 California, 108.
- Havens v. Dale, 18 California, 366; Merle v. Mathews, 26 Id. 455.

Dec. 1870.]

STEINBACH V. STEWART.
Opinion of the court.

Yeltan's farm, and on the south by land of Ernest Rufus."
In connection with the offer of this deed it was proved that
Glein, the grantee, at the time of his purchase, took possession of the tract thus conveyed (the same now held by Whitman), and paid a valuable consideration for it; and that allthe succeeding grantees, including Whitman, paid valuable
considerations for their grants at the times of their several
purchases, and took possession of the land, remaining in open
and notorious possession while their interests continued,
Whitman still retaining his. It was also proved that when
Steinbach, the plaintiff, acquired his title to the Agua Caliente rancho, Whitman was in the open and notorious possession of the tract, claiming to own the same.
To the admission of this deed from Hoeppener to Glein the
plaintiff objected, for two reasons assigned at the time. The
first of these was, that the deed did not import to convey
the title to any particular tract of land; and the second was,
that it created no legal estate, and that it was therefore incompetent evidence for any issue made in the action. Neither of these reasons is, in our opinion, well founded. The
first rests upon a mistake of fact. We are unable to perceive that there was insufficient certainty in the description
of the land granted. It was identified by giving natural
boundaries for both its east and west sides, and by calls fo,
adjoining proprietors upon the north and the south. This
was enough. In regard to the second reason, we remark
that the entire deed is not before us. It is not found in the
record,and there is nothing, therefore, to show that it did not
convey all the estate which Hoeppener had acquired by the
deed to him from Vallejo. If it did not, it was incumbent
upon the plaintiff in error to show the fact by exhibiting to
us the deed itself. We infer, from the course of the argument, that the objection was intended only to reassert that
Hoeppener's title was a mere equity. The worthlessness of
that assertion has already been sufficiently considered.
The fourth exception is quite similar to the third. It is
that the court received in evidence, against the objection of
the plaintiff, a deed, dated November 14, 1846, from Andres

STEINBACH

V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Hoeppener to J. J. Dopken, whose title subsequently passed
to Martha C. Watriss, another of the defendants. The deed
was for six hundred and forty acres, part of the rancho
"Agua Caliente" granted to PeTia, confirmed to Vallejo,
and conveyed by him, as above mentioned, to Hoeppener.
Standing by itself, the deed is indefinite in its description
of the land intended to be granted, and an insufficient designation of the subject of the grant. But it was not offered
or received alone. It was made, as will be perceived, while
the country was under Mexican rule, and its offer was attended by proof of what amounted to livery of seizin-an
actual putting of the grantee into possession under it, and
a maintenance of that possession from 1846 until 1864, when
this suit was brought. It had been admitted, when the deed
was received in evidence,-hat Vallejo bad put Hoeppener into
possession of the entire rancho, and thatiloeppener continued
in possession until he sold to Dopken, when he retired, and
allowed his grantee to take possession of the tract sold.
This was a parol identification followed by long possession
unchallenged. Considering the looseness of Mexican grants
at that time, aid the acquiescence for so many years of the
grantor and all claiming under him, we cannot say that the
deed, in connection with this other evidence, was erroneously
admitted.
The only remaining assignment of error is, that the court
refused to allow the plaintiff to give evidence in rebuttal to
prove that, even if the deed shown by the defendants from
Hoeppener did make out an equity in his grantees, Hoeppener failed to perform the conditions upon which Vallejo's
grant was made to him, upon which the equity rested, and,
therefore, that the equity expired.
A few words will dispose of this. If the assignment correctly represented what was the ruling of the court, it would
be a sufficient answer to it, that the deed from Vallejo to
iloeppener was unconditional, and, therefore, that his title,
and that of his grantees, was not dependent upon the performance or non-performance of conditions. But the court
made no such refusal as that of which the plaintiff com-

Dec. 1870.]

LUDLOW V. RAMSEY.
Syllabus.

plains. What the court did rule was, that Hoeppener's statements, made after he had conveyed the land to others, could
not be admitted to invalidate his deeds. Surely such a ruling
requires no vindication.
Finding no error in the record, the judgment is
AFFRMED.

LUDLOW v. RAMSEY.
1. In a collateral proceeding, to set aside a sale made under a judgment of
another court, it must be shown that such court had no jurisdiction of
the case. It is not enough to show mere errors and irregularity.
Hence it is not enough to set aside, in a collateral proceeding, a sale
made under the attachment laws of Tennessee, that the affidavit on
which the attachment issued did not state, as the code of Tennessee
directs that such affidavits should do, that the claim to secure which
the attachment process was prayed was "a just claim ;" it stating such
facts, however, as made the justice of the claim inferable almost as of
necessity.
2. The doctrine of Dean v. Nelson (10 Wallace, 158), that judicial proceedings on a mortgage carried on within the Union lines, against a person
driven, by way of retaliation for outrages committed by others, outside
of those lines and prohibited from returning within them, does not
apply to a person who went and remained voluntarily in rebellion.
Such a person cannot complain of legal proceedings regularly prosecuted against him as an absentee.
3. A party bad attached, in a State court, the property of a person who had
left his home and engaged in the rebellion. Afterwards, on information by the government filed in a District Court of the United States,
for confiscation of the property under an act of Congress, the attaching
creditor intervened, as the act allowed him to do, to 'protect his prior
right and secure his claim from the proceeds of the forfeited property
when sold. The proceedings in confiscation having been terminated by
a pardon to the person whose property had been proceeded against, the
proceedings in attachment in the State court went on, and a purchaser
of the property under them was put into possession by a writ of possession from the State court. Held, that whether such writ was issucd by
the State court in contempt of the Federal one or not was a question
which could not be passed upon by a Federal court in a suit by the
original owner of the property to set aside as void a sale made under
the proceedings in attachment, and that such proceedings could not be

