'Dec. 1870.]

COmPANY V. DowNER

TRANSPORTATION

129

Syllabus.

a government in which other States and their citizens are
equally interested with the State which imposes the taxation. In my judgment, the limitation of the power of taxation in the general government, which the present decision
establishes, will be found very difficult of control. Where
are we to stop in enumerating the functions of the State
governments which will be interfered with by Federal taxation ? If a State incorporates a railroad to carry out its
purposes of internal improvement, or a bank to aid its financial arrangements, reserving, perhaps, a percentage on the
stock or profits, for the supply of its own treasury, will the
bonds or stock of such an institution be free from Federal
taxation ? How can we now tell what the effect of this decision will be? I cannot but regard it as founded on a
fallacy, and that it will lead to mischievous consequences.
I am as much opposed as any one can be to any interference
by the general government with the just powers of the State
governments. But no concession of any of the just powers
of the general government can easily be recalled. I, therefore, consider it my duty to at least record my dissent when
such concession appears to be made. An extended discussion of the subject would answer no useful purpose.

TRANSPORTATION

OMPANY v. DOWNER.

1. The terms "dangers of lake navigation" include all the ordinary perils
which attend navigation on the lakes, and among others, that which
arises from shallowness of the waters at the entrance of harbors formed.
- from them.
1. When a defendant-a transportation comiany-shows that a loss of
goods, which it had contracted to carry from one port to another, was
occasioned by a danger of lake navigation, from losses by which it had
exempted itself by its bill of lading, the plaintiff may show that the
danger and consequent loss might have been avoided by the exercise
of proper care and skill on the part of the defendant; in which case the
defendant will be liable notwithstanding the exemption in the bill of
lading. The burden of establishing the absence of such care and skill
on the part of the defendant rests with the plaintiff.
VOL. X1.

9

130

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. DOWNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
8. A presumption of negligence from the simple occurrence of an accident
seldom arises, except where the accident proceeds from an act of such a
character that, when due care is taken in its performance, no injury
ordinarily ensues from it in similar cases, or where it is caused by the
mismanagement or misconstruction of a thing over which the defendant
has immediate control, and for the management or construction of
which he is responsible.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This case was an action against the Western Transportation Company to recover damages sustained by the plaintiff
from the loss of eighty-four bags of coffee belonging to him
which the company had undertaken to transport from New
York to Chicago. The company was a common carrier,
and in the course of the transportation had shipped the coffee
on board of the propeller Buffalo, one of its steamers on the
lakes. The testimony showed that the steamer was seaworthy, a'nd properly equipped, and was under the command
of a competent and experienced master, but on entering the
harbor of Chicago in the evening she touched the bottom,
and not answering her helm, got aground, and during the
night which followed kept pounding, and thus caused the
hold to fill with water. The result was, that the coffee on
board was so damaged as to be worthless.
The bill of lading given to the plaintiff by the transportation company at New York, exempted the company from
liability for losses on goods insured and losses occasioned by
the "dangers of navigation on the lakes and rivers." The
defence made in the case was, that the loss of the coffee
came within this last exception.
Upon the trial the plaintiff having shown that the defend-

ant had the coffee for ttansportatioi, and that the same was
lost, the defendant then showed by competent evidence that
the loss was occasioned in the manner above stated, that is,
by one of the " dangers of lake navigation." The plaintiff
then endeavored to prove that this danger and the consequent loss might have been avoided by the exercise of proper
care and skill. The, defendant moved the court to instruct
the jury as follows:

Dec. 1870.]

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. DOWNER.

131

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

"If the jury believe from the evidence that the loss of the
coffee in controversy was within one of the exceptions contained

in the bill of lading offered in evidence, that is to say, if it was
occasioned by perils of navigation of the lakes and rivers, then
the burden of showing that this loss might have been avoid6d
by the exercise of proper care and skill is upon the plaintiff;
then it is for him to show that the loss was the result of.
negligence."
The court refused to give this instruction and the defendant excepted, and at the request of the plaintiff, gave instead, the following, to the giving of which the defendant
also excepted, viz.:
"The bill of lading in this case excepts the defendant from
liability, when the property is not insured, from perils of navigation. It is incumbent on the defendant to bring itself within
the exception, and it is the duty of the defendant to show that
it has not been guilty of negligence."
The plaintiff, recovered, and the defendant brought the
case here on writ of error.
Messrs. 3. N. Jewet and G. B. Hlibbard, for the plaintff in
error:
The case of Clark v. Barnwell,* in this court, shows that
the doctrine for which we contended below is the true one,
and the principle of that case has been recognized and established in numerous other cases.t
Mr. J. T. Mitchell, contra:
The weight of authority is in favor of the instruction
complained of.
In Whitesides v. Russellt a steamboat ran on a rock in the
Ohio River and knocked a hole in her bottom, whereby her
12 Howard, 272, 280.
t Hunt v. The Cleveland, Newberry, 221; The Neptune, 6 Blatchford,
193.
1 8 Watts & Sergeant, 44.

132

TRANSPORtTATION

COMPANY v.

DowNR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

cargo was damaged. The bill of lading excepted losses by
"dangers of the river," and the carrier was held to have the
onus of proving, not only how the loss occurred, but that he
bad used due diligence and skill.
So in Rays v. Kennedy,* where Lowrie, C. J., says:
"From the very nature of the relation the burden of the
proof of a loss by inevitable accident is thrown upon the carrier.
He must prove not only an accident which the law admits as
inevitable in its character, but also that he was guilty of no fault
in falling into the danger, or in his efforts to extricate himself
from it."
In Graham v. Davis,t the Supreme Court of Ohio decided
this precise point. The case was ably argued and elaborately
considered both on principle and on authority, and the decision is entitled to great weight. The reason of it is stated
by Ranney, J., with clearness.
This rule is established also in other States.1.
If the case of Clark v. Barnwell-relied on by the other
side for the position that it is sufficient for the carrier to
show an accident, which may or may not be a danger of
navigation (that is, such a danger as reasonable skill and care
could not avoid), to put on'the plaintiff the burden of proving
negligence-can be considered as deciding so broad a proposition, then it is erroneous in principle and against the great
weight of authority. It is supported only by a Nisi Prius
opinion of Lord Denman, and the cases in the United States
courts, which have followed it as authority, without examining the ground upon which it rested. The principal State
courts in which it has been cited have refused to follow so
clear a departure from established principles.
But the decision does not in reality go to the extent
claimed. In that case, the carrier proved affirmatively that
his ship was tight and staunch, well equipped and manned,
* 41 Pennsylvania State, 378.

j- 4 Ohio State, 362.
Swindler v. Hilliard, 2 Richardson, 268; Baker v. Brinson, 9 Id. 201;
Berry v. Cooper, 28 Georgia, 543; Turney v. Wilson, 7 Terger, 840; Rill
v. Sturgeon, 28 Missouri, 327.

Dec. 1870.]

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V.

DOWNER.

133

Opinion of the court.

and that the cargo was well stowed and dunnaged.* He.
in fact, proved all the elements of proper skill and care on
his part. The case was argued and decided on the evidence,
not on the burden of proof. The subject of the burden of
proof was not argued at all, and the remarks of the court
upon it were not necessary to the result arrived at. The
decision was right on the evidence, and it is fairly inferrible
from the report, that all that was meant to be laid down as
to the burden of proof was, that after the carrier had proved
due care and skill (which he had done in that case), the plaintiff was still at liberty to rebut that evidence, and assume
the burden of proving negligence. This is unexceptionable
doctrine, and the case is authority for so much, but not foi
anything more.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the trial the plaintiff made out a prirnu facie case by
producing the bill of lading, showing the receipt of the coffee
by the company at New York, and the contract for its transportation to Chicago, and by proving the arrival of the coffee
at the latter place in the propeller Brooklyn in a ruined condition, and the consequent damages sustained. The company
met this prini facie case by showing that the loss was occasioned by one of the dangers of lake navigation. These
terms, "dangers of lake navigation," include all the ordinary
perils which attend navigation on the. lakes, and among
others, that which arises from shallowness of the waters at
the entrance of harbors formed, from them. The plaintiff
then introduced testimony to show that this danger, and the
consequent loss, might have been avoided by the exercise
of proper care and skill on the part of the defendant. If the
danger might have been thus avoided, it is plain that the
loss should be attributed to the negligence and inattention
of the company, and it should be held liable, notwithstanding the exception in the bill of lading. The burden of establishing such negligence and inattention rested with the
* See p. 281.

134

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. DOWNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

plaintiff, but the court refused an instruction to the jury to
that effect, prayed by the defendant, and instructed them
that it was the duty of the defendant to show that it had not
been guilty of n.egligence. In this respect the court erred.
In Clark v. Barnwell,* the precise point was involved, and
the decision of the court in that case is decisive of the question in this. And that decision rests on principle. A peril
of navigation having been shown to exist, and to have occasioned the loss which is the subject of complaint, the defendant was prima facie relieved from liability, for the loss was
thus brought within the exceptions of the bill of lading.
There was no Presumption, from the simple fact of a loss
occurring in this way, that there was any negligence on the

part of the company. A presumption of negligence from
the simple occurrence of an accident seldom arises, except
where the accident proceeds from an act of such a character
that, when due care is taken in its performance, no injury
ordinarily ensues from it in similar cases, or where it is
caused by the mismanagement or misconstruction of a thing
over which the defendant has immediate control, and for the
Management or construction of which he is responsible.

Thus, in Scott v. The London and St. Catharine -Dock Cornpanyt the plaintiff was injured by bags of sugar falling from
a crane in which they were lowered to the ground from a
warehouse by the defendant, and the court said, "There
must be reasonable evidence of negligence; but where the
thing is shown to be under the management of the defendant or his servants, and the accident is such as in the ordinary course of things does not happen if those who have the
management use proper care, it affords reasonable evidence,
in the absence of explanation by the defendant, that the accident arose from want of care."

So in Curtis v. The Rochester and Syracuse Railroad Comnrany,t the Court of Appeals of Nqew York held that the mere
fact that a passenger on a railroad car was injured by the
train running off a switch was not of itself, without proof of
12 Howard, 272.
: 18 New York, 543.

t 3 Hurlstone & Coltman, 696.

Dec. 1870.]

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. DOWNER.

185

Opinion of the court.

the circumstances under which the accident occurred, presumptive evidence of negligence on the part of the company.
The court said that carriers of passengers were not insurers,
and that many iiijuries might occur to those they transported
for which they were not responsible, but as railroad companies were bound to keep their roads, carriages, and all
apparatus employed in working them, free from any defect
which the utmost knowledge, skill, and vigilance could discover or prevent, if it appeared that an accident was caused
by any deficiency in the road itself, the cars, or any portion
of the apparatus belonging to the company and used in connection with its business, a presumption of negligence on
the part of those whose duty it was to see that everything
was in order immediately arose, it being extremely unlikely
that any defect should exist of so hidden a nature that no
degree of skill or care could have seen or discovered it.
It is plain that the grounds stated in these cases, upon
which a presumption of negligence arises when an accident
has occurred, have no application to the case at bar. The
grounding of the propeller and the consequent loss of the
coffee may have been consistent with the highest care and
skill of the master, or it may have resulted from his negligence and inattention. The accident itself, irrespective of
the circumstances, furnished no ground for any presumption
one way or the other. If, therefore, the establishment of
the negligence of the defendant was material to the recovery,
the burden of proof rested upon the plaintiff.
For the error in the refusal of the instruction prayed and
in the instruction given, the judgment must be REVERSED, and
the cause
REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

