UTNITED

STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

sought to bring in the necessary parties. The defendants
could not bring them in. New parties cannot be brought
into a cause by a cross-bill,* and had the bill not been dismissed, it must have been left at the option of the complainants whether the case should ever be brought to a final
decree. Under these circumstances, there was no reason for
retaining the bill.
It is insisted, however, that the court erred in dismissing
the bill, reserving only a right to sue Beauregard, May, and
Graham, for a settlement of the partnership between them
prior to the 14th and 16th of May, 1867. Yet-if the right
acquired by Graham's assignment was, as the authorities
show, not an ownership of the specific effects of the partnership, but only a right to share in the surplus remaining after
the settlement of the partnership accounts and the payment
of all its debts, as well as the just claims of the several partners, it is clear there can be in the complainant no equity
against the railroad company, or against Hernandez, Binder,
or Bonneval, who have succeeded to May's rights (not his
obligations), if they have not to Graham's. No fraudulent
confederacy is charged in the bill. At most, according to
the complainant's own showing, they are purchasers of property that belonged to the firm. There was, therefore, not
only a want of indispensable parties, a want which cannot
be supplied without ousting the jurisdiction of the court,
but a misjoinder of the defendants, a misjoinder apparent
upon the face of the bill. Hence the decree of the Circuit
Court was correct.
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

1. Under the treaty of cession of Louisiana, made with France, April 80th,
1803, the United States Government always claimed to the Ferdido
River on the east, although the Spanish authorities kept possession of,
and claimed sovereignty over, the territory between that river and the
* Shields v. Barrow, supra.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

633

Statement of the case.

2.

8.

4.

5.
6.

7.

Mississippi (except the island of New Orleans) until 1810, when the
United States took forcible possession of it.
Spain, in ceding the Floridas to the United States, by the treaty of February 22, 1819, only ceded so much thereof as belonged to her, and hence
did not cede the above territory, lying between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers.
The stipulation in the eighth section of the treaty of 1819, to confirm all
Spanish grants of land in the ceded territory, did not embrace grants
made in the above territory after Spain ceded Louisiana to France by
the treaty of'St. Ildefonso, in 1801; for after that it did not belong to
Spain.
The act of March 26th, 1804, organizing territorial governments for
Louisiana, expressly declared void all grants made in the territory
above referred'to, after the treaty of St. Ildefonso.
The foregoing points have been established by a long series of decisions
in this court.
But by the act of June 22d, 1860, entitled "An act for the final adjustment of private land claims in the States of Florida, Louisiana, and
Missouri, and for other purposes," the grants made by the Spanfsh
government in the disputed territory whilst in possession thereof, and
claiming sovereignty over it, were confirmed.
Such a grant, for 32,025 arpents, made by the Spanish intendant Morales,
on the 12th day of July, 1806, to John Lynde, the ancestor of the appellees, although rejected and declared void under previous conditions
of the laws, was held to be confirmed and validated by the act of 1860.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
The heirs of John Lynde filed a petition in the court be.
low, the object of the suit having been to obtain the recognition and confirmation, as against the United States, of a
claim for 82,025 arpents of land in Louisiana, under'the
provisions of an act of Congress, entitled, "An act for the
final adjustment of Private Land Claims in the States of
Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri, and for other purposes."
Approved June 22, 1860.*
The petitioners claimed title under a grant by Juan Ventura Morales, Spanish intendant of West Florida, to John
Lynde, their ancestor, on the 12th day of July, 1806, in
pursuance of an application made by Lynde on the 26th day
of September, 1803, and regular surveys thereon. The lands
* 12 Stat. at Large, 85.

634

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

were situated east of the river Mississippi, and south of the
81st parallel of latitude, in a direction nearly north of Baton
Rouge, and were a part of the disputed territory, which, after
the cession of Louisiana to the United States in 1803, was
claimed by them as part of Louisiana, and by Spain as a part
of West Florida. The cause of this contention between the
claimants under the Spanish grant and the United States,
originated in the various treaties of cession which had been
made respecting these territories.
The court below decided in favor of the claim, and the
United States brought the case here. It was submitted on
briefs of Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General, and Mr. C. H. Bill,
Assistant Attorney- General, for the United States, and of Mr.
Louis Janin, contra,for the claimant.
Mir. Justice BRADLEY stated the history and nature of
the title on both sides, and delivered the opinion of the court.
Louisiana, as possessed by the French prior to 1763, embraced not only the entire territory west of the Mississippi,
but also extended east of that river, along the Gulf of
Mexico, as far as the Perdido, the present boundary between
Alabama and Florida. By the treaties of 1763 France ceded
the latter portion, lying east of the Mississippi, except the
city and. island of New Orleans, to Great Britain, and the
residue to Spain. Subsequently (in 1783), Spain acquired
the part ceded to Great Britain, and thus became possessed
of the entire territory on our western and southern borders.
On the 1st of October, 1800, a secret treaty was made at St.
fldefonso, between Spain and Bonaparte, then First Consul,
by which Spain agreed, on certain conditions to be performed, to retrocede to the French republic "the colony or
province of Louisiana with the same extent that it now has
in the hands of Spain, and that it had when France possessed
it, and such as it ought to be after the treaties subsequently entered
into between Spain and other states."
The ambiguity of this last expression was the cause of the
subsequent misunderstanding between Spain and the United
States. Did it mean that Spain was to retrocede to France

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

635

Opinion of the court.

all the territory which the latter had formerly possessed
under the name of Louisiana, or only so much as remained
after the separation of West Florida therefrom, and the
cession thereof to Great Britain ? The United States contended the former, Spain the latter.
The importance of this question arose from the fact that
the cession of Louisiana by Bonaparte to the United States
included in precise terms what had been retroceded by Spain
to France. The treaty of April 80, 1803, after reciting the
exact language. of the treaty of St. Ildefonso, describing the
colony or province of Louisiana as above stated, ceded "the
said territory, with all its rights and appurtenances, as fully
and in the same manner as they had been acquired by the
French republic in virtqe of the above-mentioned treaty
with his Catholic Majesty."
In accordance with her construction of the treaty of St.
Ildefonso, Spain refused to surrender the possession of the

territory east of the Mississippi and Iberville Rivers which
she had acquired from Great Britain, and which the English
had named West Florida, and she retained possession of it
and exercised full sovereignty over it for many years afterwards.
Kotwithstanding this refusal of Spain to deliver up West
Florida, the United States, through the executive and legislative departments of the government, always claimed that
it was covered by the two treaties of cession, and insisted
that it rightfully belonged to them, though no demonstrations were made to dispossess the Spanish authorities until
1810, when President Madison issued a proclamation directing that possession should be thken, but at the same time
declared that the right thereto should remain, as it had continued, a subject for amicable negotiation with the Spanish
government. Possession was taken by the United States
accordingly.
During the period that Spain remained in possession, her
authorities continued to grant lands, not only in small parcels to actual settlers, under her colonization laws, but in
large tracts to speculators and favorites.

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

From 1803 to 1806, inclusive, the Spanish intendant,
Morales, made many such grants (of which the grant in
question was one), and which have ever since been the subject of much litigation and dispute, never being recognized
as valid by our authorities, unless so recognized by the act
of 1860, hereafter referred to.
Immediately after acquiring possession of Louisiana, in
1803, Congress passed an act to organize temporary governments in the newly acquired domain. This act, which was
passed on the 26th day of March, 1804, created two territories-one, embracing all that part of the ceded country
lying south of Mississippi Territory, east of the Mississippi
River, and south of the 33d parallel of latitude west of that
river, to be called the Territory of Orleans; the other, embracing all the residue of the ceded country, namely, that
portion lying west of the river Mississippi and north of the
33d parallel, to be called the District of Louisiana. By the
14th section of this act all grants of land withi'n the ceded
territories, the title whereof was, at the date of the treaty
of St. Ildefonso (October 1, 1800), in the crown, government,
or nation of Spain, were declared void, except bond fide grants
made to actual settlers prior to December 20, 1803, not to
exceed one mile square to each settler, and the usual proportion for his wife and family.
Accorditg to the views of our government this act extended to West Florida (so called) as well as to Louisiana,
and as a part thereof. President Madison, in 1810, in the
proclamation referred to,* commences with these words:
"Whereas the territory soith of the Mississippi Territory and
eastward of the river Mississippi, and extending to the river
Perdido, of which possession was not delivered to the United
States in pursuance of the treaty concluded at Paris on the 30th
of April, 1803, has at all times, as is well known, been considered and claimed by them as being within the colony of Louisiana conveyed by the said treaty, in the same extent that it had
in the hands of Spain, and that it had when France originally
possessed it," &c.
* 11 Stat. at Large, 761.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.
Opinion of the court.

He then states that the United States bad forborne to take
possession, not from any distrust of their title, but from
motives of conciliation towards Spain, and shows why it was
inexpedient to delay taking possession any longer, and concludes by directing Governor Claiborne, "governor of the
Orleans territory, of which the said territory is to be taken
as part, to take possession of the same, and to exercise over
it the authorities and functions legally appertaining to his
office."
By the act of 25th April, 1812, after possession of West
Florida had been assumed by our government, commissioners were appointed to investigate all the titles and claims
to lands in that territory, and the claim now before us was
laid before the proper commissioner and rejected on the
ground that the territory was a part of Louisiana ceded to
the United States in 1803, and that the authority of Spain
over the same had ceased by the treaty of St. Ildefonso
of October 1, 1800. Other claims belonging to the same
category met with a like fate. A list of these claims, rejected by the commissioner for the district between the
Mississippi and Pearl Rivers, may be found in the American State Papers.* The commissioner reports, that in his
opinion these claims ought not to be confirmed: 1st, because
the government of the United States claims an absolute
property in the territory; 2d, because the Spanish government evidently distrusted its own right to make these grants,
as they were made in a manner entirely different from the
usages and customs always before observed in granting lands.
It was not the custom of Spain to make sale and gain of her
public lands, but to grant them to actual settlers. Nevertheless, the commissioner suggests whether the United
States government, by permitting Spain to remain in possession of the country, and thus to impose upon persons purchasing lands in good faith, was not morally bound by considerations of equity and policy to make these purchasers
some compensation.
* Title Public Lands, vol. vi, p. 601.

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

These events happened prior to the treaty between Spain
the United States, entered into February 22, 1819, by
which his Catholic Majesty ceded to the latter all the territories belonging to him, situated to the eastward of the Mississippi, known by the name of East and West Florida.
By the 8th article of that treaty it is stipulated as follows:
And

"All the grants of land made before the 24th of January,
1818, by his Catholic Majesty, or by his lawful authorities in
the said territories ceded by his Majesty to the United States,
shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of
the lands to the same extent that the same grants would be
valid if the territories had remained under the dominion of his
Catholic Majesty."
When this treaty came before the courts it was held that
it furnished no aid to the disputed claims, since it only guaranteed grants made by the King of Spain in the territory
ceded by that treaty; and the territory ceded on1T embraced
such territory as belonged to the King of Spain; and as the
United States held that the disputed territory did not belong
to him, no grants made by him therein were confirmed by
the treaty.
In 1829 the case of Fosterand Elam v. Neilson came before
this court on a claim for 40,000 arpents of land under one
of the grants of lorales, precisely like the claim now before
the court. The case is reported in 2 Peters,* and c6ntains,
in the arguments of counsel and the opinion of the court, a
complete history of the controversy. Chief Justice Marshall
ably reviews the argument of our government in favor of its
claim under the treaties of St. Ildefonso and of April 80th,
1803. He admits that the former is susceptible of a twofold
construction; but he cdncludes, and that was the judgment
of the court, that the judicial department is bound by the
construction adopted by its own government. He says :t
"If those departments which are intrusted with the foreign
intercourse of the nation, which assert and maintain its interests
* Page 253.

t Page 309.

Dec. 1870.]

1UNITED

STATES V.

LYNDE.

Opinion of the court.

against foreign powers, have unequivocally asserted its rights
of dominion over a country of which it is in possession, and
which it claims under a treaty; if the legislature has acted on
the construction thus asserted, it is not in its own courts that
the construction is to be denied. A question like this respecting the boundaries of nations is, as has been truly said, more a
political than a legal question, and in its discussion the courts
,of every country must respect the pronounced will of the legislature."
The Chief Justice then turns to the question whether the
treaty of 1819 had effected any change in the position of
these grants before the courts. After quoting the eighth
article of the treaty, which stipulates that "all the grants of
land made before the 24th of January, 1818, by his Catholic
Majesty, or by his lawful authorities, in the said territories
ceded, &c., should be ratified and confirmed," he inquires
what territories were ceded; and observes that the cession
did not embrace all territories situated to the eastward of
the Mississippi, but all the territories which belonged to him
(the King of Spain) thus situated. If, according to the position assumed by our government, the United States had
already acquired a full title to West Florida, as far to the
eastward as the Perdido River, then Spain had no title, and
ceded nothing therein; and, by consequence, the stipulation in the eighth article of the treaty in favor of grants
made by his Catholic Majesty "in the territories ceded"
would not apply to the grant then before the court. Another difficulty in the ease, as viewed by the court, was in
the form of the stipulation. It was, that all grants "shall be
ratified and confirmed," not "are ratified and confirmed;"
a form of expression which the court held required the intermediate action of the legislature confirmatory of the grants
before the courts could act upon them. For these reasons
the court decided against the claim.
In the subsequent case of Arredondo,* on an examination
Df the Spanish side of the treaty, the court held that the last
* 6 Peters, 691.

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

point made in -Fosterv. Neilson, was untenable; and that the
treaty was a present confirmation of the grants referred to
in it ;* and the same was decided in United States v. Perchenman.t But this did not affect the question at issue. The
main objection still remained.
Meantime attempts were made in Congress to secure the
recognition of these Spanish grants, but without success.
In February, 1832, a resolution was passed by the House
of Representatives, calling on the Secretary of State for his
opinion of the justice and validity of the claims arising upon
those grants, and of the expediency of providing by law for
their final adjustment. Mr. Edward Livingston, the then
Secretary of State, who had been counsel for the claimants,
made a lengthy and able report,t stating the history of the
grants and the questions arising thereon, and strongly urging their justice and the expediency of providing for iheir
settlement. He contended that this was called for in the
exercise of good faith towards the Spanish government,
which, whatever views we might have entertained with regard to our own title, had always considered us pledged by
the treaty of 1819 to recognize and validate her grants, and
had expressed very decided complaints at our failure to
do so.
Mr. Wickliffe, from the Committee on Public Lands in
the House, to whom the secretary's communication was referred, made a report combating its conclusions with great
energy:
"Are we to be told" (says the report),ยง "at this time of day,
that our title to the territory between the Mississippi and Perdido was not valid until the treaty of 1819, and that by that
treaty we purchased that part of Louisiana by the name of ' all
the territories which belong to him (his Catholic Majesty), situated to the eastward of the Mississippi, known by the name
of East and West Florida?' What was East and West Florida
in 1819 ? Did it include any part of the territory between the
* 6 Peters, 737-743.

j- 7 Id. 51.
+ See it, American Archives, Public Lands, vol. vi, p. 495.
Ib. Public Lands, vol. vi, pp. 507-8.

:Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

Opinion of the court.

Mississippi and the Perdido? Had not the United States, under
and by virtue of the treaty between France and Spain, and between the United States and France, long prior to 1819, taken
possession of the same by expelling the Spanish power therefrom? And who doubted, in 1819, her right both of jurisdiction and soil? And who, till now, ever supposed that the
United States, by the treaty of 1819, imposed upon herself the
obligation to confirm these grants made by Spain in violation
of her solemn treaty stipulations? . . . The committee will not
do the then administration so much injustice as to suppose they
would negotiate a treaty with Spain for the avowed purpose of
the acquisition of East and West Florida, in terms designed to
conceal the important fact from the Congress of the United
States that by said treaty they were bound to confirm claims to
near 600,000 acres of land which had, by an act of solemn legislation, been declared null and void, and which originated in a
violation of the treaty of St. Ildefonso and of that with France'
in 1803."
This extract serves to show the temper with which these
claims were viewed at that day by many of our leading
statesmen. Of course, no advance was made in their favor

on this occasion.

The next case in this court in which grants of land between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers came in question
was Garcia v. Lee, in 1838.* The court, in that case, reaffirmed Foster v. Neilson, and held that, as this territory did
not belong to Spain after the treaty of St. Ildefonso, but belonged to the United States, according to its construction
of the treaty, the Spanish grants therein made after 1800
were invalid, and were not confirmed by the eighth article
of the treaty of 1819. Chief Justice Taney, delivering the
opinion of the court,t said:
"Indeed, when it is once admitted that the boundary line,
according to the American cpnstruction of the treaty, is to be
treated as the true one in the courts of the United States, it
would seem to follow, as a necessary consequence, that the

t Page 521.

* 12 Peters, 511
VOL. XI.

41

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

grant now before the court, which was made by the Spanish
authorities within the limits of the territory which then belonged to the United States, must be null and void, unless it
has been confirmed by the United States by treaty or otherwise.
It is obvious that one nation cannot grant away the territory
of another."
Again:
"In the case before us the grant is invalid from an intrinsic
defect in the title of Spain. It is true she still claimed the
country, and refused to deliver it to the United States. But
her conduct was, in this respect, a violation of the rights of the
United States and of the obligation of treaties."
The court relied on the act of 1804 as giving notice of the
determination of the United States to claim the territory
and to ignore any grants made therein, except to actual
settlers.
In this state of the decisions it was in vain for claimants
under these grants to think of resorting longer to the courts
of the United States. They, accordingly, again applied to
Congress, and on June 17, 1844, procured a law by which
the act of May 26, 1824, relating to land titles in Missouri,
was extended to Louisiana and Arkansas and the district
between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers, and the District
Courts were invested with jurisdiction over laud claims
originating with either French, Spanish, or British authorities.* This act authorized any person claiming land by virtue of any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or
order of survey legally made or issued before the 10th of
March, 1804, which Was protected or secured by the treaty
with France of April 30, 1803, and which might have been
perfected into a complete title had not the sovereignty been
changed, to present a petition to the District Court stating
the case, and have the claim adjudicated upon and settled
according to the law of nations, the stipulations of any
treaty, the acts of Congress, and the laws of the former gov* 5 Stat. at Large, 676.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES v. LYNDE.
Opinion of the court.

ernment, subject to an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States. A number of suits for lands in the disp~ited
district were soon after commenced in the District Court;
amongst others, one by the heirs of John Lynde for the
tract in. question in this case. But the claimants were still
unsuccessful in this court.
The first case reported is that of United States v. .Reynes.*
It was a case precisely like the one now before the court,
and was rejected on the ground that the act of May 26,
1824, related to inchoate and incomplete titles, and was intended to give a means of completing them. The court
reaffirmed Foster v. Neilson, and held that Spain could not
make any valid grant in the disputed territory after the
treaty of St. Ildefonso, and that the act of March 26, 1804,
which had never been repealed, had pronounced all such
grants void. The court adhered to the same views in United
States v. .D'Auterive,t United States v. Philadelphia and .Yew
Orleans,. Montault v. United States,ยง United States v. Castant,1I
and a number of other cases in the same term, including
the case now before.the court. These cases were decided
in 1852.
In view of this long course of decisions, all to the same
purport, it must be considered as judicially settled in this
court that Louisiana, as ceded to the United States in 1803,
embraced the territory between the Mississippi and Perdido
Rivers, and that our government had a perfect legal right,
whatever may have been its moral or honorary obligations,
.to ignore all grants made by the Spanish authorities after
the treaty of St. Ildefonso went into effect. It must also be
regarded as judicially settled that the treaty of 1819 confirmed grants of land made in the Floridas, east of the Perdido, but not those made io the west of that river, unless
made to actual settlers or made before the treaty of St. Ildefonso went into effect. If the political departments of the
government felt bound, from considerations of honor and
* 9 Howard, 127.

12 Id. 47.

t 10 Howard, 609.
[ lb. 487.

$ 11 Id. 609.

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

good faith, or from motives of conciliation and policy, to
give effect to any other grants, it was for them to do so.
This is what the claimants insist has been done.
But that the government of the United States has always
continued to insist upon its own construction of the treaties,
whenever they are referred to as matter of right or historic
derivation of title, is manifest, among other things, from the
act admitting Florida into the Union as a State, passed so
late as March 3,1845, by which the boundaries are fixed as
follows:
"Said State of Florida shall embrace the territories of East
and West Florida, which, by the treaty of amity, settlement,
and limits between the United States and Spain, on the 22d day
of February, 1819, were ceded to the United States."*
It is well known that Florida, as thus limited, extended
only to the Perdido River, all the territory west of %vhich
had long previously been assigned to the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, which were respectively
admitted into the Union, with their present boundaries, in
1812, 1817, and 1819.
It is evident, therefore, that the case of the claimants, if
it can stand at all, must stand on the voluntary bounty of
our government, exerted through its legislative department.
And the question in this case is, whether that bounty has, in
fact, been exerted.
After the unsuccessful attempt made iD the courts, as last
referred to, under the Missouri act of 1824, the subject was
again brought to the attention of Congress in May, 1858.
Mr. Benjamin, who had been counsel for the claimants in
the last cases, made a report to the Senate as chairman of
the Committee on Private Land Claims, and submitted a bill
for the relief of the claimants. This report contained a very
full history of the treaties and litigation, giving a favorable
view of the Spanish side of the question. Suffice it to say, in
consequence of this report, Congress passed the act of June
22, 1860, entitled "An act for the final adjustment of private
* 5 Stat. at Large, 743.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.
Opinion of the court.

land claims in the States of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri,
and for other purposes." This act provides that any person
claiming lands in Florida, Louisiana, or Missouri, by virtue
of grant, concession, or warrant of survey emanating from
any foreign government prior to the cession of the territory
to the United States, or during the period when any such government claimed sovereignty, or had the actual possession of the
district or territory in which the lands claimed are situated, shall
be authorized to make application for the confirmation qf his
title in the manner pointed out in the act, which appoints
commissioners to hear and determine the applications, and
to make report to the commissioner of the land office. This
officer, if he approves, is to report the same to Congress for
its action and final decision thereon; and it is provided that
if the lands, or any of them, have been sold by the government, or cannot be surveyed and located, the claimant, if
his title be confirmed, shall have the right to enter a quantity equal in extent to the lauds thus sold, upon any of the
public lands of the United States, subject to private entry at
one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.
By the eleventh section it is provided, that where the lands
claimed have not been in possession of and cultivated by the
claimant for the period of twenty years, and where the lands
are claimed by complete grant or concession, &c., made prior
to the cession of the territory to the United States, or where
such title was created and peifected during the period while the
foreign government from which it emanated claimed sovereignty
over or had the actual possession of such territory, the claimant
may, at his option, instead of submitting his claim to the
commissioners, proceed, by petition, in the proper District
Court of the United States, subject to appeal to the Supreme
Court, whose decision is to be final; and if the claim be sustained, a patent is thereupon to issue fbr so much of the lands
claimed as remained unsold, and for so much as may have
been sold the claimant is to have the right to enter an equal
quantity upon the public lands, as before stated.
That the object of this act was to confirm the grants in
question seems hardly to admit of a doubt. It is true, that

UTNITED STATES V.

LYNDE.

[Sup. t

Opinion of th6 court.

in prescribing the powers and duties of the special commissioners and the courts to whose decision the applications
were to be referred, it is provided that they shall decide
thereon according to equity and justice.* But it can hardly
be contended, especially in view of what has already been
said, that Congress meant by this language to authorize the
said commissioners and courts to review the entire subject,
and to decide what our government ought to have done with
regard to these grants. It could not have been the intention
to throw the whole discussion open, from the treaty of St.
Ildefonso down to the present time, and to confer upon the
tribunals named in the act the power, which properly belonged to the political department of the government, and
to impose upon them the duty of declaring what the policy
of the government should be; or to leave it to their, perhaps
varying, judgments what was the true intent and meaning
of the original treaties. That could not have been the design of Congress. The act authorizes the claimants to present
their claims for coifirmation; and although it does not, in so
many words, say that grants made by foreign governments,
while in possession of the territory and claiming sovereignty
over it, if complete, regular, and fair, shall be sustained; yet
that is the unavoidable inference to be derived from its language, and from the events and course of decisions out of
which it arose. And although it does not expressly repeal
that part of the act of March 26th, 1804, which declared void
all grants of land within the ceded territories made after the
date of the treaty of St. Ildefonso; yet its provisions, in
order to have any effect at all, must be regarded as irreconcilable with that clause of the act of 1804, and, consequently,
as repealing it by implication.
We cannot avoid the conclusion, therefore, that the act
of June 22d, 1860, was intended to validate all grants which
were made by the Spanish government to bong fide grantees
of lands in the disputed territory whilst the government
remained in possession of the territory and claimed sover* See ? 2 and 11.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. LYNDE.
Opinion of the court.

eignty over it, subject, of course, to the express exceptions
of the treaty of 1819, and the supplementary declaration of
the King of Spain finally annexed thereto.
What range of discretion was intended- to be conferred
upon the special commissioners and the courts by authorizing them to decide according to the principles of equity and
justice, is, perhaps, not entirely clear. The probable meaning is, that these principles are to be applied to each particular case. If it should appear that a grant was obtained by
fraud, or was affected by any other special vice, it would be
the duty of the tribunals to reject it. Or, if it should appear
that a claim was honest and meritorious, but defective in
point of form or completeness, it might be the duty of the tribunals to sustain it as an equitable, if not a strictly legal title.
This view of the subject relieves us from 1he ungracious
task of construing treaties, and reviewing the conduct and
policy of the government. Congress, by the act of 1860,
has declared its own policy, and has left us simply the office
of judicially carrying out its enactments in individual cases
as they come before us. Congress has laid down the general
rule by placing the grants in question on a platform of
dquality with grants made by our own government, and has
left to the tribunals the duty of examining the merits of particular applications.
An examination of the case before us shows that the grant
to John Lynde was made in due form and after regular surveys; and that the consideration wasduly paid to the Spanish
government. Nothing has been developed in the case which
goes to assail the bondfides of the transaction, unless it be the
fact of obtaining the grant from Morales (who was Lynde's
father-in-law) after the treaty of cession, and when it was
known that the United States claimed the territory. But as
this can be said of all these grants, and was one of the considerations that must have been patent to the mind of Congress when it enacted the law of 1860, we must presume
that it was waived by that body, and has ceased to be a valid
ground of objection.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

648

UNITED STATES V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented from the tiecree, upon
the ground that the act of Congress in question did not confirm any claim previously adjudged void by the Federal
courts in pursuance of a prior act of Congress conferring
jurisdiction to hear and determine the controversy.

UNITED STATES V.

WRIGHT.

Under the 5th section of the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large,
702), which declares that "whenever by reason of the presence of a military
or naval force near any post-office, unusual business accrues thereat, the Postmaster-General is hereby required to make a special order allowing proportionately reasonalWe compensation to the postmaster, and for clerical services,"

the Postmaster-General is the sole judge to determine not only whether
the exigencies in the case provided for by the act have arisen, but also,
in case that he decides that they have, to determine the manner and

extent of the allowance to be mdde.
jury to revise his decision.

It is not competent for a court or

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee.
This was an action by the United States against a principal and his sureties on a postmaster's bond. At the trial,
the defendants claimed, by way of set-off, under the 5th section of the act of March 8, 1863,* centain credits which were
proved to have been presented by the postmaster to the department and disallowed. The section mentioned provides:

"That whenever, by reason of the presence of a military or
naval force near any post-office, unusual business accrues thereat,
the Postmaster-General is hereby required to make a special
order allowing proportionately reasonable compensation to the
postmaster, and for clerical services, during the period of such
extraordinary business."
Testimony was admitted as to the presence of United
States military forces near the office of the'postmaster during
* 12 Stat. at Large, 702.

