GREENE v. HENKEL.
Syllabus.

the charter were impaired by the appointment by the court of
liquidating trustees. Indeed, though the appointment of such
trustees was expressly prayed in the petition, the record does
not even suggest that a constitutional question in respect to
such appointment was raised or called to the attention of the
court below.

Audgment afflrned.

GREENE v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 26, 27, 1901.-Decided January 6,1902.
A fair interpretation of the language used by the District Judge in the
court below in granting the application for a warrant of removal from
New York to Georgia shows that from the evidence le was of opinion
that there existed probable cause, and that the defendants should therefore be removed for trial before the court in which the indictment was
found.
In proceedings touching the removal of a person indicted in another State
from that in which he is found to that in which the indictment is found
this court must assume, in the absence of the evidence before the court
below, that its finding of probable cause was sustained by competent
evidence.
It is not a condition precedent to taking action under Rev. Stat. ยง 1014 that
an indictment for the offence should have been found.
The finding of an indictment does not preclude the Government, under Rev. Stat. ยง 1014, from giving evidence of a certain and definite
character concerning the commission of the offence by the defendants
in regard to acts, times, and circumstances which are stated in the indictment itself with less minuteness and detail.
Upon this writ the point to be decided is, whether the judge who made the
order for the removal of the defendants had jurisdiction to make it; and
if he had the question whether upon the merits he ought to have made it
is not one which can be reviewed by means of a writ of habeas corpus.
The indictment in this case is prima facie good, and when a copy of it is
certified by the proper officer, a magistrate acting pursuant to Rev. Stat.
ยง 1014, is justified in treating the instrument as an indictment found by
a competent grand jury, and is not authorized to go into evidence which

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
may show or tend to show violations of the United States statutes in the
drawing of the jurors composing the grand jury which found the indictment.
By a removal such as was made in this case the constitutional rights of the
defendants were in no way taken from them.

THIS case is brought here by the appellants for the purpose
of obtaining a review of the order of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York denying
their application for a writ of habeas corpus. The proceeding
which led up to the application for the writ was commenced
under section 1014 of the Revised Statutes, which reads as follows:
"For any crime or offence against the United States, the
offender may, by any justice or judge of the United States, or
by any commissioner of a Circuit Court to take bail, or by any
chancellor, judge of a Supreme or Superior Court, chief or first
judge of common pleas, mayor of a city, justice of the peace,
or other magistrate, of any State where he may be found, and
agreeably to the usual mode of process against offenders in such
State, and at the expense of the United States, be arrested and
imprisoned, or bailed, as the case may be, for trial before such
court of the United States as by law has cognizance of the offence. Copies of the process shall be returned as speedily as
may be into the clerk's office of such court, together with the
recognizances of the witnesses for their appearance to testify
in the case. And where any offender or witness is committed
in any district other than that where the offence is to be tried,
it shall be the duty of the judge of the district where such offender or witness is imprisoned seasonably to issue, and of the
marshal to execute, a warrant for his removal to the district
where the trial is to be had."
The appellants were at the time of the commencement of
the proceeding non-residents of the State of Georgia, one of
them being a resident of the State of Connecticut, two residing in the State of New York and one in the State of Massachusetts. The proceeding was inaugurated in the Southern
District of New York, where one of the assistants of the United States district attorney for that district, on December 13,

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Statement of the Case.

1899, made a sworn complaint in writing before United States
Commissioner Shields, residing in that district, which complaint
in substance charged upon information and belief the commission by the defendants, in the Southern District of Georgia, of
the crime of conspiracy to defraud the United States of divers
large sums of money, by means of a fraudulent scheme devised
by the defendants together with one Oberlin M. Carter, a captain of the corps of engineers, United States Army; that the
scheme was first devised and put in operation in the Southern
District of Georgia in or about the year 1891, and had been
continuously in process of execution there by the defendants
from that time until October 1, 1899. The complaint also recites, with some detail, certain acts of the defendants by which
the conspiracy was effectuated and accomplished, and it also
stated that complainant's belief in regard to the charge made
by him was based upon information contained in an indictment
found by the grand jury of the United States District Court for
the Southern District of Georgia, on December 8, 1899, and he
alleged that bench warrants had been issued for the arrest of
the defendants from the clerk's office of that court on December 9, 1899, and he was informed and believed that the defendants were then in the Southern District of New York. A
certified copy of the indictment was attached and made a part
of the complaint before the commissioner, who thereupon issued
a warrant reciting the substance of the complaint, and directing
the arrest of the defendants and their production before him to
be dealt with according to law.
The defendants upon being notified of the issuing of the warrants at once appeared before the commissioner and asked for
an examination, pending which they were enlarged upon bail.
In the course of the examination, and in addition to the complaint already made, the assistant United States attorney for
the Southern District of New York on January 13, 1900, filed a
deposition detailing certain acts of one or more of the defendants performed by them in order to effect and further the conspiracy set forth in the indictment referred to in his original
complaint.
Upon the examination, the defendants offered evidence tend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ing to show a want of probable cause for believing them guilty
of the charge made by the assistant district attorney. All evidence of this nature was objected to by counsel for the Government and was excluded by the commissioner, who held that the
indictment found in the district court in Georgia was conclusive
evidence of probable cause, and that the only further evidence
necessary was proof identifying the defendants as being the
parties mentioned in the indictment, and this proof being given,
the commissioner committed them to the custody of the marshal
of the Southern District of New York until a warrant for their
removal to the Southern District of Georgia should issue by the
United States District Judge for the Southern District of New
York, or until they should otherwise be dealt with according to
law.
Application was thereupon made by the district attorney to
the United States District Judge for the Southern District of
New York for an order for the removal of the defendants under
section 1014 of the Revised Statutes. At the bearing upon such
application the defendants maintained that the commissioner
should have received the evidence of want of probable cause,
which they offered, and thereupon the District Judge made an
order that, "after hearing on exceptions and on application for
order of removal, ordered that the matter be referred back to
the commissioner for taking further competent testimony as offered by either party in accordance with the opinion filed
herein."
In the opinion which he filed the District Judge held that
the defendants were not concluded by the indictment, but were
entitled to introduce evidence before the commissioner to show
want of probable cause for believing them guilty of the offence
charged.
Pursuant to the order of the District Judge, the defendants
again appeared before the commissioner, and a large amount of
testimony pro and con was then taken by him on the question
as to probable cause for believing the defendants guilty of the
commission of the offence charged, as well as testimony concerning certain alleged irregularities in the drawing and organization of the grand jury which found the indictment upon which

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Statement of the Case.

the removal of the defendants is sought. The irregularities
consisted of alleged violations of the statute in relation to the
drawing of jurors for the courts of the United States, (section 2
of the act of June 30, 1879, 21 Stat. A3,) and were, as the defendants claimed, of such character as to render the organization of the grand jury illegal and to prevent such illegal body
from finding any valid indictment. After all the testimony
was in that either party desired to produce, the commissioner
on March 21, 1901, again committed the defendants to the custody of the marshal by an order, in which he stated that, "after full and fair examination touching the charge in the annexed
warrant named, it appears from the testimony offered that there
is probable cause to believe the defendants guilty of the charges
therein contained." Application was then made to the District
Judge for an order of removal, which application was opposed
by the defendants on the ground that the evidence showed that
there was no probable cause for believing them guilty of the
charge, and also because the indictment spoken of was wholly
void on the grounds mentioned. After argument the judge
decided that as to the objections of illegality in the drawing of
the grand jury, they could be heard before the trial court, and
its decision thereon, if erroneous, could be corrected in the regular course of appeal. Upon the subject of the evidence regarding probable cause the judge in the course of his opinion stated
as follows:
"The commitment by the commissioner and his finding of
probable cause have been made after an extremely full hearing
of all the evidence offered on both sides. No evidence reasonably pertinent has been rejected. Objection is made that irrelevant and incompetent evidence offered by the Government
was received by him; but, as stated in the former decision, the
evidence receivable in such preliminary examinations is not to
be strictly limited by the technical rules applicable upon the
final trial; and upon a charge of fraud, or of conspiracy to defraud, a somewhat wide latitude in the testimony is always allowed even on the final hearing, for the purpose of showing the
intent. The proof of the charges in this case does not consist
of any direct and certain testimony of the commission of the

25d:

OCTOBER TERMN,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

offences charged, but rests upon many facts and circumstances
in a long course of dealing, from which it is claimed that the
inference of an unlawful intent to defraud the Government must
reasonably be inferred; and the bills alleged to be fraudulent in
the last counts of the indictment are claimed to be fraudulent,
not so much because they were not according to contract, as because the contracts themselves were fraudulent, and procured
through a fraudulent conspiracy with Captain Carter, an employ6 of the Government. Considering the nature of the case,
therefore, I find no such objections to the testimony admitted
by the commissioner as to vitiate his findings or require reconsideration by him.
"As respects the finding of probable cause, I have carefully
considered the very extended briefs and arguments of counsel,
and have examined the voluminous evidence with a view to ascertain whether there was competent evidence before the commissioner sufficient in itself to sustain his finding of probable
cause. Under the rule above stated, it is not for the judge, on
an application for removal, to compare different parts of the
testimony in order to determine their relative weight, or to
substitute his own judgment for that of the commissioner, even
though it might on the whole evidence be different. By this,
however, I do not mean to be understood as expressing any
opinion whatsoever on the merits of the case. The defendants
have given a great deal of evidence tending to show that their
contracts were fairly obtained, their work well and honestly
done, and that the Government has not been defrauded a dollar.
"The Government, on the other hand, has given evidence
tending to a contrary conclusion; and it has shown beyond
question that Captain Carter, the employ6 of the Government
and the engineer in immediate charge of the work on the Government's behalf, had for several years immediately preceding
the contracts referred to in the indictment received from the
contractors continuously, through his father-in-law, in many
divisions of profits, one third of the final net proceeds of each
contract remaining for division among the chief contractors;
and that this one-third amounted in the aggregate to over

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Statement of the Case.

$700,000.

This, it is claimed, gives significance and meaning

to many other facts in evidence showing a fraudulent and illegal combination between the defendants and Captain Carter
to benefit themselves at the expense of the Government, and to
procure the allowance and payment of excessive and fraudulent bills by means of contracts fraudulently procured.
"A case-presenting such circumstances is especially one that
should be submitted to a jury trial. Nor need there be any apprehension that an impartial court and jury will not reach essential justice, or that while guarding jealously the honor and
interests of the Government, they will not also appreciate the
legitimate rights of the defendants, the peculiar difficulties,
risks and hazards of such contract work, the excellence and
merit of that which is well done, and the rights of the defendants by legitimate business methods to lessen competition and
to secure as favorable contracts as they can; and determine
fairly whether the contracts in question were fraudulent, or
obtained by illegal methods, or by a conspiracy with the engineer in charge to abuse the opportunities of his position in order
to despoil the Government and obtain exorbitant prices for their
common benefit.
"Having found in the previous decision that the ninth and
tenth counts of the indictment are good, whatever may be held
as to the counts preceding them, the defendants should be ordered to be removed for trial, or to give bail for their due appearance."
An order was thereupon made and the warrant signed by the
judge on May 28, 1901, for the removal of the defendants to
the Southern District of Georgia. On June 8, 1901, the defendants were surrendered by their bail to the custody of the
marshal, and on that day they presented their petition to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York for a writ of habeas corpus, setting out the foregoing
facts and the order for removal, which they alleged to be illegal
and in violation of their constitutional rights. They also alleged
in their petition that they were not in the State of Georgia at
the time of the filing of the indictment, nor had they been since
that time, and that while they were in New York, and during

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

the pendency of the proceedings before the commissioner to
obtain their removal to the State of Georgia, and while they
were under bail in such proceedings in the Southern District of
N~ew York, the United States district attorney of Georgia on
IMarch 5, 1900, in a letter written at Macon, Georgia, notified
the attorneys of the defendants that the case would be called
in the United States District Court at Savannah on March 12,
1900, in order that the defendants in the indictment might appear and present and interpose any objections which they might
desire to urge as to the impannelling of the grand jury which
returned a true bill of indictment in their case, and such other
objections as they might make to the validity of the indictment. The petition then proceeded as follows:
"That your petitioners are informed and believe, that he now
claims and insists that because of your petitioners' failure to
appear as above required, that they are barred and estopped
in that court from questioning the illegality and validity of said
alleged grand jury. If this contention be sustained, then unless
this court hears and passes on the said questions these petitioners
will be tried on the alleged indictment in said court in Georgia,
although the fact is that such indictment was never found by
any legally organized grand jury, but was presented and filed
in court by a body of men purporting to be a grand jury in
whose selection and drawing every statute of the United States
relating thereto was disregarded and set at naught."
It was also stated in the petition that the petitioners were
held for trial for an infamous crime, without the indictment of
a grand jury and in violation of the rights secured to them by
the Constitution of the United States ; that notwithstanding
the invalidity of the indictment and the other facts stated in the
petition, the United States marshal for the Southern District of
New York detained the petitioners and was about to remove
them to the eastern division of the Southern District of Georgia
for trial upon the pretended indictment, and in pursuance of
the proceedings had before the commissioner, and the warrant
of removal issued thereupon by the District Judge; that the
detention of the petitioners and their removal in pursuance of
said proceedings and warrant were without authority of law,

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

and that they were restrained of their liberty in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, and that any further proceedings in pursuance thereof or the further detention or imprisonment of the petitioners would be unlawful. They therefore
asked for a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the lawfulness
of their imprisonment. After a hearing upon the petition, the
Circuit Court denied the application, and from the order denying the writ the defendants appealed to this court, which appeal
was allowed and the defendants admitted to bail pending its
decision.
Hr. David B. Hill for appellants.
Mr. Abram J. Rose and M'. A

.-M. L. LajZin .Yellogg,

'fredC. Pett were on his brief.

.M. -Marion Erwin and MYr. Solicitor General for appellee.
MV[R.

JusrIC

P

KHAM,

after making the above statement of

facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be noted that the proceeding leading up to the warrant for the removal of the defendants to Georgia for trial was
inaugurated in the Southern District of New York by the sworn
deposition of an assistant of the United States district attorney
for the Southern District of New York, in which deposition it
was alleged that an indictment had been found against the defendants in the United States District Court in Georgia, a certified copy of which indictment was attached to and made a part
of the deposition. Upon the written charge thus made, the
United States commissioner in New York issued his warrant
for the arrest of the defendants, who upon being notified immediately appeared before him and an examination was proceeded with. Upon this examination the commissioner refused
to receive evidence offered by the defendants tending to show
a want of probable cause, and held that the certified copy
of the indictment found in the District Court of Georgia was
conclusive evidence of probable cause, and accordingly made
an order committing the defendants to the custody of the
marshal until a warrant for their removal should issue by
the United States District Judge for the Southern District
VOL. OLXXXIII-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of New York. Upon application to the District Judge for
such warrant he held that the indictment was not conclusive
evidence of probable cause, and sent the case back to the commissioner, (United States v. Greene, 100 Fed. Rep. 941,) to hear
evidence on that subject. On subsequent hearings before the
commissioner evidence pro and con as to pi'obable cause was
given and also as to the drawing of the grand jury, and that
officer decided that "' after full and fair examination touching
the charges in the annexed warrant named, it appears from the
testimony offered that there is probable cause to believe the
defendants guilty of the charges therein contained." And he
thereupon for the second time committed the defendants to the
marshal's custody to await a warrant of removal to be signed
by the District Judge. When the application for the warrant
of removal was made to that judge he held that a proper case
was made out, and signed the order for removal.
From these facts it is apparent that the question is not before
us whether the finding of an indictment is in a proceeding under
section 1014 of the Revised Statutes conclusive evidence of the
existence of probable cause for believing the defendant in the
indictment guilty of the charge therein set forth. The District
Judge in this case held that it was not, and sent the case back
to the commissioner, before whom evidence was thereafter taken
upon the subject, and a decision arrived at after considering all
the evidence in the case. We are not, therefore, called upon to
express an opinion upon the question. Upon all the evidence
taken before the commissioner he has found that probable cause
existed. We think that a fair interpretation of the language
used by the District Judge in grapting the application for the
warrant of removal shows beyond question that, from the evidence taken before the commissioner, the judge was of opinion
that there existed probable cause, and that the defendants should
therefore be removed for trial before the court in which the indictment was found.
When the judge refers to the testimony taken before the commissioner, although he does in terms say that he expresses no
opinion upon the merits, yet he states that upon the evidence
before him, it is a proper case to be submitted to a jury for

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

trial. That is in effect a finding of probable cause, which is
not necessarily a finding 'that the persons charged are guilty.
The meaning to be gathered from the language of the judge is
that while there is evidence on the part of the Government tending to show the guilt of the accused, there is also evidence on
the part of the defendants tending to show their innocence, and
that the determination of the question in such a complicated
case should properly be left to a jury. le says that he has
carefully considered the very extended briefs and arguments of
counsel and has examined the voluminous evidence with a view
of ascertaining whether there was competent evidence before
the commissioner sufficient in itself to sustain his finding of
probable cause, and he, in substance, finds there was, and grants
a warrant for the removal of the defendants. This is perfectly
consistent with the further statement made by him that he did
not express any opinion whatsoever on the merits of the case.
That is, he did not express an opinion whether upon all the evidence the defendants ought to be convicted'or acquitted of the
charge. Be was not called upon to do so. It was sufficient, if
all the evidence being taken into account, there existed such
probable cause for believing the defendants guilty as to warrant
their removal for trial of the offence charged. This is not expressing an opinion upon the merits, although the language of
the judge is sufficient as expressing the' existence of probable
cause against the defendants.
The evidence which was taken before the commissioner and
which was before the District Judge upon the question of the
existence of probable cause was not annexed to the petition and
forms no part of the proceeding before the Circuit Court upon
the application for the writ of habeas corpus. Whether that
evidence was or was not sufficient for the commissioner to base
his action upon or for thd&District Judge to approve, was not a
question before the Circuit%Judge, and is notbefore this court.
We must assume, in the absence of.the evidence taken before
the commissioner and approved b -the District Judge, that
their finding of probable cause was sustained by competent evidence, bearing in mind also that on this proceeding the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

would not in any event look into the weight of evidence on
that question.
It is urged, however, that the offence charged, and upon
which defendants are to be removed, is that which is contained
in the indictment only, and if the indictment be insufficient for
any reason, that then there is no offence charged for the trial
of which the defendants can properly be removed to another
district.
It is not a condition precedent to taking action under section
1014: of the Revised Statutes that an indictment for the offence
should have been found. Price v. fcCwrty, 89 Fed. Rep. 84;
Circuit Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, June, 1898. In this
case there was a sworn charge prim&facie showing the commission of an offence against the United States, cognizable by
the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Georgia. To substantiate the charge a certified copy of
an indictment found in the Georgia court was produced, and in
addition evidence was given before the commissioner which, as
he found, showed probable cause for believing that the defendants were guilty of the offence charged in his warrant. If
there were any uncertainty or ambiguity in the indictment, the
evidence given upon the hearing before the commissioner may
have cleared it up. We cannot assume that it did not, and on
the contrary, if such uncertainty in the indictment did exist,
we must assume that the evidence did clear up such uncertainty, or otherwise the commissioner would not have granted
his warrant for removal, nor would his decision have been approved by the District Judge.
The finding of an indictment does not preclude the Government under section 1014 from giving evidence of a certain and
definite character concerning the commission of the offence by
the defendants in regard to acts, times and circumstances which
are stated in the indictment itself with less minuteness and detail, and the mere fact that in the indictment there may be
lacking some technical averment of time or place or circumstance in order to render the indictment free from even technical defects, will not prevent the removal under that section, if
evidence be given upon the hearing which supplies such defects

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Opinion of the Court.

and shows probable cause to believe the defendants guilty of
the commission of the offence defectively stated in the indictment. It follows also that a decision granting a removal under
the section named, where an indictment has been found, is not
to be regarded as adjudging the sufficiency of the indictment
in law as against any objection thereto which may subsequently
be made by the defendants. That is matter for the tribunal
authorized to deal with the subject in the other district. We
do not, however, hold that when an indictment charges no offence against the laws of the United States, and the evidence
given fails to show any, or if it appear that the offence charged
was not committed or triable in the district to which the removal is sought, the court would be justified in ordering the
removal, and thus subjecting the defendant to the necessity of
making such a defence in the court where the indictment
was found. In that case there would be no jurisdiction tb commit nor any to order the removal of the prisoner.
Upon this writ the point to be decided is, whether the judge
who made the order for the removal of the defendants had
jurisdiction to make it, and if he had, the question whether
upon the merits he ought to have made it is not one which can
be reviewed by means of the writ of habeas corpus.
Jurisdiction upon that writ in such a proceeding as this does
not extend to an examination of the evidence upon the merits.
The matter for adjudication is similar to that which obtains in
cases of international extradition. In such case, if there is
competent legal evidence on which the commissioner might
base his decision, it is enough, and the decision cannot be reviewed in this way. Bryant v. United States, 167 U. S. 104.
There must be some competent evidence to show that an offence
has been committed over which the court in the other district
had jurisdiction and that the defendant is the individual named
in the charge, and that there is probable cause for believing
him guilty of the offence charged.
We do not think that under this statute the commissioner
would be warranted in taking evidence in regard to the organization of the grand jury which found the indictment, as
claimed by the defendants. The indictment is valid on its face;

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

purports to have been found by a grand jury acting in fact as
such at a regular term of a District Court of the United States,
presided over by one of its judges and hearing testimony in the
ordinary way. In our opinion, such an indictment is prina
facie good, and when a copy of it is certified by the proper
officer, a magistrate, acting pursuant to section 1014 of the Revised Statutes, is justified in treating the instrument as an indictment found by a competent grand jury, and is not compelled or authorized to go into evidence which may show or
tend to show violations of the United States statutes in the
drawing of the jurors composing the grand jury which found
the indictment.
We agree with the District Judge, that matters of that nature are to be dealt with in the court where the indictment is
found, and we intimate no opinion upon the merits of those
questirns. Whether the defendants have waived the right to
raise them, or whether they could waive the same, are also
questions that are not before us. They must be raised before
and decided by the United States court sitting in the Southern
District of Georgia, in the first instance, and we express no
opinion as to their validity.
We do not think that by this order of removal the constitutional rights of the defendants are in anywise taken from them.
The provision that no person may be held to answer for an
infamous crime unless upon the presentment or indictment of
a grand jury is not violated or infringed. If this so-called indictment be void for the reasons alleged, the place to set up its
invalidity is the cburt in which it was found. The provision
is certainly not violated when, under a proceeding such as this
upon a sworn complaint and upon evidence under oath which
both magistrates have found to amount to probable cause, an
order has been made for removing the defendants to the court
within whose jurisdiction the offence is charged to have been
committed and where all the defences of the parties may be
set forth in due and orderly manner and the judgment of the
court obtained thereon.
The order denying the application for the writ, is
Afflrmed.

