NUTTING- v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

NUTTING v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 32. Argued November 20, 21, 1901.-Decided January 13,1902.
The statute of Massachusetts of 1894, c. 522, ยง 98, imposing a fine on "any
person who shall act in any manner in the negotiation or transaction of
unlawful insurance with a foreign insurance company not admitted to do
business in this Commonwealth," is not contrary to the Constitution of
the United States, as applied to an insurance broker who, in Massachusetts, solicits from a resident thereof the business of procuring insurance
on his vessel therein, and as agent of a firm in New York, having an office
in Massachusetts, secures the authority of such resident to the placing
of a contract of insurance for a certain sum in pounds sterling upon the
vessel, and transmits an order for that insurance to the New York firm;
whereupon that firm, acting according to the usual course of business of
the broker, of itself, and of its agents in Liverpool, obtains from an insurance company in London, which has not been admitted to do business
in Massachusetts, a policy of insurance for that sum upon the vessel; and
the broker afterwards, in Massachusetts, receives that policy from the
New York firm, and sends it by mail to the owner of the vessel in Massachusetts.

THIS was an indictment on the statute of Massachusetts of
1894, c. 522, ยง 98, for negotiating and transacting unlawful insurance with a foreign insurance company not admitted to do
business in Massachusetts.
Section 98 of that act is as follows : "Any person who shall
assume to act as an insurance agent or insurance broker without
license therefor as herein provided, or who shall act in any manner in the negotiation or transaction of unlawful insurance with
a foreign insurance company not admitted to do business in this
Commonwealth, or who as principal or agent shall violate any
provision of this act in regard to the negotiation or effecting of
contracts of insurance, shall be punished by fine of not less than
one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars for each offence."
The act, in section 3, provides that "it shall be unlawful for
any company to make any contract of insurance upon or con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

cerning any property or interests or lives in this Commonwealth,
or with any resident thereof, or for any person as insurance
agent or insurance broker to make, negotiate, solicit or in any
manner aid in the transaction of such insurance, unless and except as authorized under the provisions of this act;" and that
"all contracts of insurance on property, lives or interests in this
Commonwealth shall be deemed to be made therein." And in
sections 77-82 it prescribes the conditions with which foreign
insurance companies must comply before they can do business
in Massachusetts, requiring each company, among other things,
to appoint the insurance commissioner its attorney, upon whom
process in any suit against it may be served; to appoint some
resident of Massachusetts as its agent; to obtain from the insurance commissioner a certificate that it has complied with the
laws of Massachusetts and is authorized to make contracts of
insurance; and, if incorporated or associated under the laws of
any government other than the United States or one of the
States, to deposit with the treasurer of Massachusetts or the financial officer of some other State a sun equal to the capital
required of like companies, to be held in trust for the benefit of
all the company's policy-holders and, creditors in the United
States.
At the trial in the Superior Court, the parties agreed upon
the following facts: The defendant was a citizen of Massachusetts and a licensed insurance broker in Boston, and at some
time prior to November 18, 1898, solicited from one William
McKie, a shipbuilder in Boston, and likewise a citizen of Massachusetts, the business of procuring insurance-upon a vessel then
in process of construction in his Boston shipyard; and, as agent
for Johnson & Higgin8, average adjusters and insurance brokers,
having an office in Boston in charge of the defendant, and their
principal place of business in New York, secured the authority
of McKie to the placing of a contract of insurance for ยฃ4124
upon the vessel. Thereupon the defendant transmitted an order for the insurance to Johnson & IHiggins in New York, and
they at once wrote to their Liverpool agents, John D. Tyson &
Co., to procure the aforesaid insurance. Accordingly, Tyson &
Co. procured a policy from the London Lloyds, to be delivered

NUTTING v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

to Tyson & Co. in Liverpool, dated November 18, 1898, for a
year from November 16, 1898, on the aforesaid vessel, for the
sum of X:124, the policy running in favor of Johnson & Higgins "on account of whom it may concern, as well in their own
name as for and in the name and names of all and every other
person or persons to whom the same doth, may or shall appertain." Tyson & Co., at the time of receiving the policy, paid
the premiums thereon for account of Johnson & Higgins, and
received a commission upon the insurance from Lloyds for themselves and for Johnson & Higgins. Tyson &Co. sent the policy
to Johnson & Higgins in New York; they, after endorsing it,
forwarded it by mail to the defendant in Boston; and he, on
November 18, 1898, sent it by mail to McKie. The policy was
procured from the London Lloyds in the usual course of the
business of the defendant, of Johnson & Higgins and of Tyson
& Co. None of them were agents of the London Lloyds, except in so far as the facts agreed constituted them agents. The
London Lloyds were individual insurers, citizens of England,
associated as principals in the business of insurance, under and
by authority of the government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland, and carrying on the business in England on the Lloyds' plan, by which each associate underwriter
becomes liable for a proportionate part of the whole amount insured by a policy. The London Lloyds had not complied with
any of the requirements imposed by the laws of Massachusetts
upon foreign insurance companies, and had not been admitted
to do insurance business in the Commonwealth, according to
law.
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury that
so much of the Massachusetts statute as purported to make illegal such acts as were done by the defendant was contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, and as such was unconstitutional and void. The request was refused; and the court instructed the jury that upon
the facts above stated they would be warranted in finding the
defendant guilty. To all of this the defendant duly excepted,
and being found guilty, his exceptions were overruled by the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. 1'[5 Mass. 154. He

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

was thereupon sentenced in the Supreior Court, and sued out
this writ of error.
Mr. . Hubley As/ton for plaintiff in error.
.M?.. HT.X. Enowlton, for defendant in error.
M . JUsTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

A State has the undoubted power to prohibit foreign insurance com panies from making contracts of insurance, marine
or other, within its limits, except upon such conditions as the
State may prescribe, not interfering with interstate commerce.
A contract of marine insurance is not an instrumentality of
commerce, but a mere incident of commercial intercourse. The
State, having the power to impose conditions on the transaction
of business by foreign insurance companies within its limits,
has the equal right to prohibit the transaction of such business
by agents of such companies, or by insurance brokers, who are
to some extent the representatives of both parties. Hooper v.
California,155 U. S. 648; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 518.
The statute of Massachusetts of 1894, c. 522, on which this
indictment is founded, besides requiring foreign insurance companies, as conditions precedent to doing business in the State, to
appoint agents within the State, and to deposit a certain sum
in trust for their policy-holders and creditors, provides, in section 3, that "it shall be unlawful" "for any person as insurance agent or insurance broker to make, negotiate, solicit or
in any manner aid in the transaction of" insurance on or concerning any property, interest or lives in Massachusetts, except
as authorized by the act; and, in section 98, that any person
"who shall act in any manner in the negotiation or transaction
of unlawful insurance" (evidently intending insurance declared
unlawful by section 3) "with a foreign insurance company not
admitted to do business in this Commonwealth," shall be punished by fine.
The acts of negotiation or transaction by the defendant in
Massachusetts, admitted in the facts agreed by the parties, are

NUTTING v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

that he solicited from MoKie the business of procuring insur-

ance upon his vessel in Boston, and, as agent of Johnson &
Higgins of New York, having an office in Boston, secured the
authority of McKie to the placing of a contract of insurance
for a certain sum in pounds sterling upon the vessel, and transmitted an order for that insurance to Johnson & Higgins in
New York; whereupon they, acting according to the usual
course of business of the defendant, of themselves and of their
agents in Liverpool, obtained from the London LloyZls, who had
not been admitted to do business in Massachusetts, a policy of
insurance for that amount on the vessel; and the defendant
afterwards, in Massachusetts, received from Johnson & Higgins
that policy, and sent it by mail to McKie, which tends to show
that the policy obtained from the foreign insurance company
was the insurance which he had originally solicited. These
facts clearly convict the defendant of negotiating and transacting in Massachusetts unlawful insurance with a foreign insurance company in violation of the statute, if that statute is constitutional.
In Hfooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, Hooper, the agent in
California of the same Johnson & Higgins of New York, obtained from them a policy of marine insurance of a Massachusetts insurance company on a vessel in California, owned by a
citizen of California, to whom he delivered the policy in California. It was held that a statute of California, by which
Hooper was guilty of procuring insurance for a resident of
California from a foreign insurance company which had not
given bond as required by the laws of California, was constitutional.
In Allgeyer v. louisiana,165 U. S. 578, the insurance was
not obtained through an agent or broker, but by the assured
himself; and the point decided was that a statute of a State
punishing the owner of property for obtaining insurance thereon in another State was unconstitutional. In that case the
decision in Hooper's case was expressly recognized and distinguished; and Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the court,
and repeating the words of Mr. Justice White in _HoopeV's case,
observed: "ft is said that the right of a citizen to contract for

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

insurance for himself is guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, and that, therefore, he cannot be deprived by the State
of the capacity to so contract through an agent. The Fourteenth Amendment, however, does not guarantee the citizen
the right to make within his State, either directly or indirectly,
a contract, the making whereof is constitutionally forbidden by
the State. The proposition that, because a citizen might make
such a contract for himself beyond the confines of his State,
therefore h might authorize an agent to violate in his behalf
the laws of his State within her own limits, involves a clear
non, sequitur, and ignores the vital distinction between acts
done within and acts done beyond a State's jurisdiction." 155
U. S. 658, 659; 165 U. S.587, 588.
As was well said by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, "While the legislature cannot impair the freedom of
McKie to elect with whom he will contract, it can prevent the
foreign insurers from sheltering themselves under his freedom
in order to solicit contracts which otherwise he would not have
thought of making. It may prohibit not only agents of the
insurers, but also brokers, from soliciting or intermeddling in
such insurance, and for the same reasons." 175 Mass. 156.
We are of opinion that the case at bar comes within
Tooier v. California,and not within Allgeyer v. Louisiana;
and that section 98 of the statute of Massachusetts, under which
the plaintiff in error has been convicted, is not contrary to the
Constitution of the United States.
The effect of the other provision of the Massachusetts statute,
declaring that "all contracts of insurance on property, lives or
interests in this Commonwealth shall be deemed to be made
therein," need not be considered; because the defendant has
been convicted, not of the making of the contract, but of negotiating and transacting that contract in Massachusetts.
Judgment a~firmed.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

In my opinion this case does not differ in principle from Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; and so thinking I cannot
concur in the opinion and judgment in this case.

