OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
CALLENDER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND OIRCUIT.
No. 78. Argued December 3, 1901.-Decided January 13, 1902.

This action was brought by defendants in error to recover the value of 187
bales of cotton destroyed in the fire mentioned in Texas & Pacific Railway Company v. Reiss, ante, 621. The facts as to the manner of doing
business at Westwego are the same as those stated in that case, and also
in the case of the same company v. Clayton, 173 U. S. 348. The bill of
lading contained the following clauses: "1. No carrier or party in possession of all or any of the property herein described shall be liable for
any loss thereof or damage thereto by causes beyond its control; . . .
or for loss or damage to property of any kind at any place occurring by
fire or from any cause except the negligence of the carrier." "3. No
carrier shall be liable for loss or damage not occurring on its own road
or its portion of the through route, nor after said property is ready for
Cot4.....
delivery to the next carrier or to consignee. .. ...
ton is excepted from any clause herein on the subject of fire, and the
carrier shall be liable as at common law for loss or damage of cotton by
fire. . . . " " 11. No carrier shall be liable for delay, nor in any other
respect than as warehousemen, while the said property awaits further
conveyance, and in case the whole or any part of the property specified
herein be prevented by any cause from going from said port in the first
steamer, of the ocean line above stated, leaving after the arrival of such
property at said port, the carrier hereunder then in possession is at liberty to forward said property by succeeding steamer of said line, or, if
deemed necessary, by any other steamer. 12. This contract is executed and accomplished, and all liability hereunder terminates, on the
delivery of the said property to the steamship, her master, agent or servants, or to the steamship company, or on the steamship pier at the said
port, and the inland freight charges shall be a first lien, due and payable
by the steamship company." Held:
(1) That the measure of the common law liability between connecting
carriers is properly stated in the opinion in the next preceding
case, and the cases therein referred to;
(2) That under the wording of the fourth clause in the bill of lading the
defendant was properly held liable;
(3) That there was nothing to go to the jury upon the question of a delivery of the cotton to the steamship company under the twelfth
clause of the bill of lading;

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLENDER. 633
Opinion of the Court.
(4) That upon the facts stated it was clear that at the time when the
cotton was lost there had been no delivery, actual or constructive,
to the steamship company, so as to divest the defendant of its
common law liability for the loss of this cotton.
Whatever may generally be the effect of a notice to a connecting carrier,
upon the question of terminating or altering the liability of a preceding
carrier for the goods, it is quite clear that it has no effect in diminishing
the liability until actual delivery in a case where the preceding carrier still
continues to have full control over the goods and has a choice as between
connecting carriers, and may, notwithstanding such general notice, deliver the goods under certain circumstances to another carrier for further transportation.
THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Arthur H. Masten for plaintiff in error.
Taggart was on his brief.

Xr. Bush

.Mr. Treadwell Clevelandfor defendants in error. Mr. Fred,
eric . 3ygatt and Mr. George Richards were on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

PIcnHmO delivered the opinion 6f the court.

This action was brought by the defendants in error, who are
aliens, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, to recover the value of one hundred
and eighty-seven bales of cotton destroyed in the same fire at
Westwego, Louisiana, November 12, 1894, mentioned in the
immediately preceding case. As in that case, the defence here
is based upon certain clauses of the bill of lading providing exemption from common law liability in the contingencies mentioned. There was a verdict for the plaintiffs by the direction of
the court, and the judgment entered thereon having been affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals, 98 Fed. Rep. 538, the
railway company has brought the case here by writ of error.
The facts as to the manner of doing business at Westwego
are the same as those stated in the foregoing case, and also in
the C ayton Case, 173 U. S. 348. The cotton arrived at Westwego between October 17 and 29, and had been so placed on
the pier that it was only necessary for the steamship company
to send a ship there and take the cotton when pointed out to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

its master or other officer. In this case there had been sent a
notification to the steamship company, by means of the "transfer sheets" mentioned in the statement of facts in the other
case, of the arrival of the cotton as early as November 2, for
most of it, and for a few bales as late as November 10. After
the evidence was in the defendant requested to go to the jury
upon the question whether the cotton was awaiting further
conveyance at the time of its destruction, and also upon the
question of whether the cotton had been delivered to the steamship company, and also upon the whole case. The request was
refused. The clauses of the bill of lading to which reference
is made are the following:
"1. No carrier or party in possession of all or any of the property herein described shall be liable for any loss thereof or
damage thereto by causes beyond its control; . . . or for
loss or damage to property of any kind at any place occurring
by fire or from any cause except the negligence of the carrier."
"3. No carrier shall be liable for loss or damage not occurring
on its own road or its portion of the through route, nor after
said property is ready for delivery to the next carrier or to consignee.
"4. . . . Cotton is excepted from any clause herein on
the subject of fire, and the carrier shall be liable as at common
"
law for loss or damage of cotton by fire.
"11. No carrier shall be liable for delay, nor in any other
respect than as warehousemen, while the said property awaits further conveyance, and in case the whole or any part of the property specified herein be prevented by any cause from going
from said port in the first steamer, of the ocean line above stated,
leaving after the arrival of such property at said port, the carrier hereunder then in possession is at liberty to forward said
property by succeeding steamer of said line, or, if deemed necessary, by any other steamer.
"12. This contract is executed and accomplished, and -all
liability hereunder terminates, on the delivery of the said property to the steamship, her master, agent or servants, or to the
steamship company, or on the steamship pier at the said port,
and the inland freight charges shall be a first lien, due and payable by the steamship company."
.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLENDER. 635
Opinion of the Court.

The claim of the railway company is that the language of
the fourth clause in the bill of lading, which excepts cotton
from any clause therein on the subject of fire, and which renders the carrier liable as at common law for loss or damage by
fire, is limited in its application to those clauses in the bill of
lading which speak of fire, and that the common law liability
of the company existing under the fourth clause is subject to
the provisions of the other clauses mentioned in the bill, which
provide for exemption or reduction of liability under the facts
stated in them. In other words, that if the company might
otherwise be liable for the loss of cotton by fire by reason of
the fourth clause, yet, if at the time of the loss-the property was
ready for delivery, although not delivered, to the next carrier,
as provided for in clause 3, or if it awaited further conveyance,
though not actually delivered to the connecting carrier, as stated
in clause 11, that then it would be exempted under the third or
its liability reduced under the eleventh clause of the bill of lading, and the plaintiff could not therefore recover, on the proof
in this case. Of course, if under the twelfth clause the property
had actually been delivered to the succeeding carrier, its destruction by fire thereafter would not render the preceding
carrier liable for that loss.
The measure of the common law liability between connecting
carriers is stated in the opinion in the preceding case and the
cases therein referred to, and need not be here repeated.
Now what is the true construction of the fourth clause? In
relation to that it was stated by Judge Shipman, in delivering
the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals herein, as follows:
"The principal question in the case is upon the proper construction of the sentence in clause 4 in relation to the liability
of the defendant for loss of cotton by fire. The bill of lading
was prepared for a contract in regard to property of any kind,
and in clause 1 the carrier was exempted from liability from
loss by fire except through his negligence. The part of the
sentence in clause 4, ' Cotton is excepted from any clause herein
on the subject of fire,' probably refers only to clauses wherein
fire is mentioned, but the concluding part of the sentence, 'and
the carrier shall be liable as at common law for loss or damage

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of cotton by fire,' has a wider sweep, and means that the carrier, notwithstanding limitations of its common law liability
which are provided in the bill of lading, retains such liability in
regard to damage to cotton by fire. The clause, as a whole, intended to leave and did leave unaltered the implied liability of
the carrier for loss to cotton by fire. The limitations which
the parties did permit were contained in clauses 3 and 11, which
said that the carrier should not be liable for damage after a
readiness to deliver, or otherwise than as a warehouseman after
the property waited further conveyance. Whatever may be
the extent of these limitations, they were to a certain degree,
modifications of- the common law liability of the first carrier,
but its liability at common law for loss to cotton by fire remained intact. The request of the defendant to go to the jury
upon the question of delivery of the cotton was properly refused. There was no evidence of a delivery. The cotton was
never in the actual or constructive possession of either of the
steamship companies and neither was ready to take it from the
defendant's possession, and, therefore, clause 12 has no bearing
upon the question of the defendant's liability."
We think this view of the Circuit Court of Appeals is the
correct one, and that under the wording of the fourth clause in
the bill of lading the defendant was properly held liable. The
first part of that clause in terms takes cotton out of any clause
on the subject of fire, and as if such language might possibly
render it doubtful as to what the status of cotton would be by
merely excepting it from any clause on the subject of fire contained in the bill of lading, it is further provided that "the carrier shall be liable as at common law for loss or damage of cotton by fire." The whole is a special and specific provision
which applies to cotton alone and to the loss of cotton by fire.
The other provisions apply generally to all property, whatever
its character and wherever taken. In other words, these other
clauses are of a general nature, while the fourth clause refers
to cotton alone and to the specific cause of the loss, viz., by
fire. We are of opinion that the specific clause takes effect to
the exclusion of the general clauses containing matters of general exemption, and that therefore the carrier remains liable as

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLENDER. 637
Opinion of the Court.

at common law for a loss of cotton by fire while in the possession of the carrier, although it was ready for delivery to the
next carrier within the meaning of the third clause, or was
awaiting further conveyance within the meaning of the eleventh clause, but that if it had been actually delivered before
the loss the railway company would not have been responsible
therefor. The defendant's claim, if allowed, would leave the
shipper without recourse for loss by fire after the notification
had been given to the steamship company and before the delivery of the cotton had been made to it, because the railway
company would be under no liability for the loss of the cotton
by fire, excepting by reason of its own negligence, and the insurance of the cotton, while in the possession of the steamship
company, would not attach, and so the shipper would be without any adequate protection during that time. True, he might
obtain special insurance during this intermediate period, but it
would add to the expense of the transit which under the terms
of the bill he would naturally not feel called upon to make, and
it would be inconvenient and troublesome to do it, and the
court ought not to unduly limit the plain language of the clause
for the purpose of thereby enabling the company to escape a
liability cast upon it by the common law, and which it voluntarily assumed.
As cotton was the subject of the special provision, its language should be given full sway, and should not be curtailed
by other provisions in other clauses of a general nature referring to all kinds of property.
We are also of opinion that there was nothing to go to the
jury upon the question of a delivery of this cotton to the steamship company under the twelfth clause of the bill of lading. It
may be assumed that the pier of the railway company was the
place understood and agreed upon between that company and
the steamship company to make delivery, when it was made,
of the cotton to be thereafter carried by the steamship company, but upon the uncontradicted evidence in this case we are
of opinion that the simple arrival of the cotton at the pier and
notice thereof given to the steamship company by means of the
"transfer sheets," spoken of in the other case, did not in and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of itself amount to a delivery of the cotton to the steamship
company, constructive or otherwise. Nor was it a delivery on
the steamship's pier, as between the shipper and the railway
company, within the language of clause twelve, and for the
reasons herein stated the notice to the steamship company did
not relieve the railway carrier from liability.
The uncontradicted evidence shows that the cotton came to
the railway pier under these circumstances: The pier was built
by the railway company and was in its sole and absolute control and possession. Not a bale of cotton could be taken from
it without the action of that company; its own watchmen were
in charge of the pier at all times, and when a steamship came
to the pier it was only under a permit or an order from an
officer of the railway company that the cotton was taken. It
was pointed out by the servants of the railway company and,
within the custom of the port of New Orleans, it had to be
brought within the reach of the ship's tackle before the ship
was called upon to take it. The expression, "ship's tackle,"
means "where the ship's ropes can get on to it so that the
ship's winches can pull the cotton in." The custom was that
after a steamship company returned the transfer sheets which
had been sent it by the railway company, an order was made
out by the railway officials on the Westwego office of the defendant, to deliver to the steamship company's agents such
cotton as was ordered. It does not appear that any such order
was given. Prior to the time of the arrival of the vessel which
was to take the cotton and the arrival of the stevedores, the
steamship company had no charge of any of the cotton on the
pier. There was no particular spot on the pier at which, if
cotton were there deposited, it was understood between defendant and the steamship companies to have been deposited in the
care, control or possession of any of such companies, but, on
the contrary, the whole pier was covered by cotton destined
indiscriminately for transportation to different European ports
by different lines of steamers, not one of which could take a
bale of cotton away without the order of the railway company.
Before the ship took the cotton it gave a mate's receipt for
it, although sometimes the receipt would not come as soon as

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLENDER. 639
Opinion of the Court.

that, and the cotton would be delivered before the receipt was
given. The cotton which came in on the cars of the defendant
was placed all along the pier, and that which was destined for
any particular company had to be pointed out and selected
from a large mass of cotton on the pier. The railway company
had contracts with various steamship companies; with the
West India 'and Pacific, the French line, the lines for which
Miller & Company were agents, the Hamburg-American line,
and some others, and the cotton for all these various lines was
unloaded upon this pier of the railway company and was distributed all over the wharf, so that, when a steamship came to
the dock upon which the cotton was, that which was intended
for the particular steamship then at the pier would be brought
out to it or within reach of its tackle by the railway employ~s,
depending upon where the cotton was and how far away from
the ship, and it was understood between the steamship and
railway companies that the railway company would get out the
cotton when necessary to do it, and by getting out the cotton
was meant dragging it from where it was stored on the wharf
out in front or near enough in front to enable the steamship
people to get it without having to go around through the bales
of cotton.
The connection of the steamship companies with the transportation of the cotton was the subject of special contracts
between those companies and the railway company. The initiation would be an agreement between a steamship company
and the railway company for a certain charge for freight across
the ocean for a stated amount of cotton from New Orleans to
Liverpool or Bremen, or whatever other foreign port it might
be, and no particular cotton was specified. Having obtained
this agreement as to price and number of bales, the railway
company would then agree with the shipper in Texas for a
through rate from the point in Texas at which the cotton was
to be taken to the port abroad, and it would then give a bill of
lading such as was given in evidence in this case, providing for
the through rate and the liabilities of the various carriers by
rail and by sea; but it was only after an arrangement had been
made and a contract entered into between the railway and a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

steamship company that the latter company would send a
steamer to the Westwego pier. The evidence is uncontradicted
in regard to what the steamship lines had to do under the
agreements they had with the defendant; in some cases they
were not under any obligation to come to the pier unless the
defendant had at least 1500 or 2000 bales of cotton ready for
them, while in another case the steamship company which had
a contract to take 20,000 bales of cotton from the railway company was not to be called on to go to the wharf unless there
were at least five hundred bales ready to deliver to it, and by
the bill of lading the railway company might, under certain
contingencies, if it deemed necessary, forward the cotton by
some steamer of another line than that mentioned in the bill.
The steamship companies took their own time in coming to the
Westwcgo pier for the cotton. If they had no special contract
with the railway company, they did not come at all. It was
not the case of a regular delivery by the railway company to a
connecting carrier at the pier of the latter.
Now upon these facts we regard it as entirely clear that at
the time this cotton was lost there had been no delivery, actual
or constructive, to the steamship company so as to divest the
defendant of its common law liability for the loss of this cotton.
Within clause 12 of this bill of lading there was no delivery
of the property by the defendant either to the steamship, her
master, agents or servants, or to the steamship company or on
the steamship company's pier at the port of New Orleans, even
upon the assumption that the pier at Westwego was the point
agreed upon between the railway and the steamship companies
where the delivery of the cotton was to be made when it was
delivered. How can it be said that there was a delivery to
this steamship company upon the facts above detailed when,
by agreement between the parties, the company was not to
take the property until it sent a steamship to the pier for that
purpose? Until it was delivered to it at the steamer's side the
steamer had neither possession nor control over it. By the bill
of lading the defendant could in certain contingencies and at
any time before delivery to the ship send the cotton by another

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLENDER. 61
Opinion of the Court.

steamer. Until the ship did come to the pier, there can be no
question of actual delivery in this case.
Nor does the notification to the steamship company that
there was cotton at the pier awaiting or ready for delivery to
it, make such notification a constructive delivery of the cotton
and terminate the liability of the railway company. Here was
a pier containing thousands of bales of cotton, destined to various European ports, and by- various lines of steamers, with a
special right to the railway company, mentioned in clause 11,
to send the cotton mentioned in any particular bill of lading by
a steamer of a line other than the one mentioned in the bill,
and no obligation of the steamship company to send for the
cotton until there was a quantity of 500 bales in some cases,
and in others untir there were from 1500 to 2000 bales ready
for the particular steamer. A notification to a steamship company by means of a "transfer sheet," which was taken to be a
notice that there was cotton at the pier ready for delivery to
a steamer when it came, did not necessarily take away the
right of the railway company to send that cotton by another
steamer, and the company which was notified and sent a steamer
would have no ground of complaint if, upon the arrival of the
steamer at the- pier, other cotton consigned to the same port
were given it to the same amount. There being only this conditional obligation to send for cotton on the part of the steamship company, and none upon the part of the defendant to at
all events deliver the specified cotton to the former, and the
steamship company not having sent a ship to the pier, there
was no limitation of the defendant's liability wrought by the
notification.
Whatever may generally be the effect of a notice to a connecting carrier, upon the question of terminating or altering
the liability of a preceding carrier for the goods, it is quite clear
that it has no effect in diminishing the liability until actual delivery in a case where the preceding carrier still continues to
have full control over the goods and has a choice as between
connecting carriers, and may, notwithstanding such general

notice, deliver the goods under certain circumstances to another
VOL. OLXXXII-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

carrier for further transportation.

Until actual delivery in such

case, the preceding carrier is not divested of his liability.
The case Pratt v. Railway Company, 95 U. S. 43, and the
other cases referred to by counsel in his argument at the bar,
have no application in the view we take of the facts. The
Pratt case was fully commented upon in Texas &c. Company
v. Clayton, 173 U. S. supra, in the course of the opinion of the
court, and it seems to be too clear for argument that the case
does not justify an inference that the facts which we have just
detailed in regard to this cotton constitute a delivery, either
constructive or actual, to the steamship company or to the pier
of that company.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the court below did not
err in directing a verdict for the plaintiffs for the value of the
cotton, and the judgment in their favor is,
Afflrmed.

SUN PRINTING AND PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION
v. MOORE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COU'r OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 49. Argued October 24, 1901.-Decided January 13, 1902.

The trustees of The Sun Association are to be charged with knowledge of
the extent of the power usually exerted by its managing editor, and must
be held to have acquiesced in the possession by him of such authority,
even though they had not expressly delegated it to him, and he is held to
have been vested with such power.
An authority to charter a yacht for the purpose of collecting news was
clearly within the corporate powers of the association.
It is impossible to assume in this case that the relation of The Sun Association to the hiring of the yacht was simply that of a security for Lord as
a hirer of the yacht on his personal account, and the two papers in evidence are in legal effect but one contract, and must be interpreted together.
As the trustees of The Sun Association must be presumed to have exercised
a supervision over the business of the corporation, they are to be charged

