OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

location is perfected it has the effect of a grant by the United
States of the right of present and exclusive possession. -Forbes
v. Grady, 94 U. S. 762; Belk v. Afeagher, 104 U. S. 279;
Gwillim v. Donnellan, 115 U. S. 45; N oyes v. .Afantel, 127
U. S. 348.
The appellants, however, deny the application of .Manuel v.
IWulff, and contend that this suit having been brought under
section 500 of the Oregon Code, in order to maintain the suit
the appellees must show a right to the exclusive possession of
the ground in dispute. This is in effect to say that while the
validity of the location may not be disputed by appellants,
the right to the possession, which is but an incident of the
location, may be. We do not concur in this view. The meaning of Xianuel v. Vuy,, is that the location by an alien and
all the rights following from such location are voidable, not
void, and are free from attack by any one except the government.
It is not necessary to notice other points made by appellants
and, discovering no error in the record,
J'udgment is affirmed.

MAESE v. HERMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 226. Argued November 6, 7, 1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.

The sole authority to the General Land Office to issue the patent for the
land in dispute in this case was the act of March 3, 1869, 15 Stat. 342;
the patent was issued under that authority, and it does not admit of controversy that it must issue to the confirmee of Congress, viz.: the town
of Las Vegas.
This court cannot assume that Congress approved the report of the Surveyor General unadvisedly, used the name of the town of Las Vegas unadvisedly, or intended primarily some other confirmee.
The town and its inhabitants having been recognized by Congress as having
rights, and such rights having been ordered to be authenticated by a patent of the United States, it is the duty of the Land Office to issue that
patent, to give the town and its inhabitants the benefit of that authentication, and to remit all controversies about it to other tribunals.

MAESE v. HERMAN.
Statement of the Case.

THIS is a bill in equity brought in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, praying for an injunction against respondents from issuing a patent to the town of Las Vegas, New
Mexico, of the lands in the Las Vegas private land grant, or,
if a patent has issued, to declare it to be void, or if a patent has
not issued, to direct one to issue "to all of said lands, to the
heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the said Juan de Dios
Maese, Manuel Duran, Miguel Archuleta, Jos6 Antonio Cassaos,
and those who were associated with them as the original grantees and as representatives of said original grantees, and that
their title in and to said lands may be quieted, and said plaintiffs pray for such other and further and general relief as they
may show themselves entitled to under the law and the facts."
There was a demurf'er to the bill, which was sustained, and
the complainants declining to amend their bill, it was dismissed.
An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals, and the action
of the Supreme Court of the District was affirmed. 17 D. C.
App. 52.
The suit was brought by the complainants as heirs of the
original grantees for themselves and others, who, it is alleged,
are too numerous to be made parties. The defendants are sued
in their official character. The facts as they appear from the
bill are that on the 20th of March, 1835, Juan de Dios Maese,
Miguel Archuleta, Manuel Duran and Jos& Antonio Cassaos,
for themselves and on behalf of twenty-five men, presented a
petition to the corporation of El Bado, in the Territory of New
Mexico, Mexico, for -the grant and possession of the tract of
land "commonly known as Las Vegas, on the Galenas River,
which was desired for the cultivation of moderate crops and for
pasture and watering places." The land was under the jurisdiction of El Bado, and was bounded as follows: "On the north
by the Sappello River, on the south by the boundary of the
grant of Don Antonio Ortiz, on the east by the Aguage de la
Zegua, and on the west the boundary of the grant to San Miguel del Bado."
The tract contains 496,446.96 acres of land, and was afterwards surveyed in 1860, which survey was approved by the
surveyor general of New Mexico.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The petition was presented to the territorial deputation, approved by that body on the 23d of March, 1835, and the grant
made as asked for with the provision, "that persons who owned
no land were to be allowed the same privilege of settling upon
the grant as those who petitioned for it, and that 'the pasture
and watering places are free to all.'"
On the 24th of March, 1835, the acting governor and political chief of the territory approved the action of the territorial
deputation, and directed the constitutional justice of El Bado
to place the parties in possession of the lands prayed for. This
was done on the 6th of April, 1835.
The heirship or legal succession of the parties to the original
grantees is alleged, and that the complainants "are now the
true and real owners of undivided interests in said land, the
separate interest therein of each being of the full value of not
less than ten thousand dollars." The total value of the land is
two million dollars.
The treaty and protocol of Guadalupe Hidalgo are invoked,
and it is alleged that the surveyor general of New Mexico, under the provisions of the act of Congress of July 22, 1854, 10
Stat. 308, c. 103, and acting under the instructions of the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of the General Land
Office, gave notice to parties claiming grants from Mexico to
present their claims, and thereupon Francisco Lopez, Henry
Connelly and Hilario Gonzalez, on behalf of themselves and a
large number of citizens of the United States, residents of San
Miguel County, presented their petition claiming the Las Vegas
grant. The surveyor general investigated the claim, found, and
reported its validity. His report was approved by Congress
and the grant confirmed, "thereby confirming in and to the
original grantees named and designated in said Las Vegas grant,
their heirs and assigns, their absolute right and title to all of
the lands embraced within the aforesaid boundaries and limits,
free of all right, title, claim or control upon the part of the
United States."
It is the duty of the Commissioner of the General Land Office
to issue patents in "all such confirmed private land grants to
the grantees named in the original grant, their heirs or assigns,

MAESE v. HERAIAN.
Statement of the Case.

and in the discharge and performance of his duty therein he
has no judicial or discretionary powers, but acts ministerially
alone in the issuing of such patents."
It is further alleged in the bill that"December 17, 1898, upon a petition filed in the Interior Department of the United States, praying that a patent be ordered
to be issued to the town of Las Vegas to all the land included
in said Las Vegas grant, the Honorable Thomas Ryan, the then
acting Secretary of the Interior Department, addressed a letter
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, wherein and
whereby the said Interior Department ordered and directed the
honorable Commissioner of the General Land Office to issue a
patent to said lands to the town of Las Vegas, which order of
the Interior Department now remains and continues in full
force and effect, not having been set aside, vacated or omitted.
"Said plaintiffs are informed and believe, and upon their information and belief they charge the fact to be, that at the date
of the making of said Las Vegas grant, as aforesaid, there was
no place of collection of people having any legal existence under
.the laws, customs or usages of the Republic of Mexico or the
Territory of New Mexico known or designated as the town of
Las Vegas, nor was there any town by name of Las Vegas on said
grant or elsewhere at that time which under the laws in force
at that time in the Territory of New Mexico had any legal or
corporate existence or which under or by virtue of any law,
custom or usage in force in New Mexico could take or acquire
title to lands.
"And said plaintiffs allege and charge further that said land
grant was not made to any town by name of Las Vegas or by
any other name; that the town of Las Vegas nor any other
town ever petitioned the surveyor general of New Mexico to
investigate the nature, character, extent or validity of said grant,
and that the only petition ever preferred to any surveyor general for such an investigation touching said grant was preferred
by individuals representing the original grantees, Juan Dios
Maese et al., their heirs and assigns, the same hereinbefore referred to. They aver further that said surveyor general reported
that said grant was made in due form to Juan Dios Maese and

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

his associates, and was to them a valid grant, and plaintiffs aver
that said grant was duly and legally confirmed by Congress to
the original grantees, the said Juan Dios Maese and his associates, and that it was not confirmed to a town by the name of
Las Vegas or to any other town. Said plaintiffs further show
that they are informed and believe, and upon their information
and belief they charge the fact to be, that there was not on
December 17, 1898, any town by name of Las Vegas anywhere
in the United States having any legal or corporate existence or
any defined boundaries, or that could take or acquire title, either
equitable or legal, to any lands whatsoever; and, further, that
there was not at the time of the cession of the country included
in the Territory of New Mlexico to the United States by the
Republic of M[exico, or at the time of the confirmation by Congress of the United States of said Las Vegas grant, any such
town having any legal or corporate existence or having any
defined boundaries, or any place by that name capable in the
law of acquiring, having or holding title, either legal or equitable, to the lands included within the Las Vegas grant or any
other real estate."
It is further alleged that such patent if issued will be a cloud
upon the title of plaintiffs and that they have presented their
claim to said grant and have requested a patent to be issued to
the heirs and assigns of the original grantees, and that their request has been ignored, "and said Commissioner of the General
Land Office is now about to issue the patent to said grant to a
nonentity called the town of Las Vegas, in violation of law and
in violation of the rights of plaintiffs and to their great and
irreparable injury, and will do so unless restrained from so doing
by this court."
The demurrer to the bill was general, charging want of equity,
no jurisdiction of the court over the subject-matter, and a defect of parties.
The other facts stated in the opinion are taken from H. Ex.
Doc. 14, 30th Cong., p. 36, quoted. in the brief of counsel for
appellants.
.Mr.
.F 'ed. Beall and -'.

H. C. Burnett for appellants.

MAESE v. HERMAN.

577

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Yan .Devanter for appellees.
MR. Jus

. MOKENNA, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The.first and second grounds of demurrer are substantially
the same, or depend upon the same arguments. Of the second
ground the courts below took different views, the Supreme Court
holding that the town of Las Vegas was not and the Court of
Appeals holding that the town was a necessary party.

As stated in the bill, the act of July 22, 1854, in execution
of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, required the surveyor
general of INew Mexico, under the instruction of the Secretary of the Interior, to investigate and report upon the validity of grants of land from the Mexican government. On
September 11, 1855, a petition was presented to the surveyor
general for the examination of the grant of Juan de Dios
Maese et al., which stated that it was presented by "Francisco Lopez and Henry Connelly and flilario Gonzales, on behalf of themselves and a large number of citizens of the United
States, residents of the town of Las Vegas and its vicinity, in
the county of San Miguel, Territory of New Mexico, represent to your honor that they, and the citizens they represent,
are the claimants and legal owners of a certain tract of land
lying and being situate in the county of San Miguel, in the Territory of New Mexico."
It also stated the fact of a grant, the boundaries of the grant,
and concluded as follows:
"The said claimants cannot show the quantity of land embraced in said grant, except as the same are set forth in the
boundaries of said grant, nor can they furnish a plat of survey of said grant, as no survey of said land has ever been
executed.
"Your petitioners, the claimants, are also informed and believe that Thomas Cabeza de Baca, for himself and others, are
claimants also for the lands embraced in said grant and now
claimed by your petitioners. Your petitioners pray that their
claim and title to said lands be examined as required by law,
vOL. oLXXX 11-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and that said grant be confirmed to them; and, as in duty
bound will ever pray," etc.
The surveyor general made report of the claim, stating"The grant made to Juan de Dios Iaese and others is not
contested on the ground of any want of formality in the proceedings, but as far as the documentary evidence shows is made
in strict conformity with the laws and usages of the country at
the time.
"Testimony is introduced to show that the heirs of Baca protested in 1837 against the occupancy of the land by the claimants under the latter grant, and that they went upon the land
knowing the existence of a prior grant, but as these matters
are not deemed to be pertinent to the case so far as this office
is concerned, it is not necessary to comnment upon them.
"It is firmly believed that the land embraced in either of
the two grants is lawfully separated from the public domain
and entirely beyond the disposal of the general government,
and that in the absence of the one the other would be a good
and valid grant; but as this office has no power to decide between conflicting parties, they are referred to the proper tribunals of the country for the adjudication of their respective claims,
and the case is hereby respectfully referred to Congress through
the proper channel for its action in the premises."
The claims and thirty-two others which the surveyor general
had investigated were submitted to Congress with his report
thereon. The claims were designated by numerals from one
to thirty-eight, number twenty being the "town of Las Vegas
and Thomas Baca et al." H. Ex. Doc. 14, pp. 42, 45.
The claims were confirmed by the act of June 21, 1860. 12
Stat. 71-2. Section 6 of the act is as follows:
"And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for the
heirs of Luis Maria Baca, who make claim to the said tract of
land as is claimed by the town of Las Vegas, to select instead
of the land claimed by them, an equal quantity of vacant land,
not mineral, in the Territory of New Mexico, to be located by
them in square bodies, not exceeding five in number. And it
shall be the duty of the surveyor general of INew Mexico to
make survey and location of the lands so selected by said heirs

MAESE v. HERMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

of Baca when thereunto required by them: Provided, however,
That the right hereby granted to said heirs of Baca shall continue in force during three years from the passage of this act,
and no longer." Approved, June 21, 1860. 12 Stat. 71-2.
Notice of the confirmation was sent by the Land Office to the
surveyor general of New Mexico, and his attention was particularly directed to the sixth section of the act of Congress as
follows:
"In this"connection I have to draw your special attention to
the sixth section of said act of June 21, 1860.

.

.

This law

gives the land to the Vegas town claim, and allows the Baca heirs
to take an equal quantity of vacant land, not mineral, in New
Mexico, to be located by them in square bodies not exceeding
five in number. To give this law timely effect you will give
priority, in surveying private land claims, to this claim, particularly as it is in the vicinity-about four miles from the outside
of the public surveys. You will proceed to have the exteriors
of the Las Vegas town claim properly run and connected with
the line of the public surveys. The exact area of the Las Vegas
town tract having been thus ascertained, the right will accrue
to the Baca claimant to locate a quantity equal to the area of
the town tract elsewhere in New Mexico as vacant land, not
mineral, in square bodies not exceeding five in number."
The grant was surveyed and a plat was made showing its area
to be 496,446.96 acres. A certificate was issued to the Baca
heirs for a like quantity of land, which entitled them to locate,
and they did afterwards locate that quantity, and the location
was sustained by this court. Shaw v. .ellogg, 170 U. S. 317.
On May 4, 1861, the surveyor general reported his action to
the General Land Office, and transmitted the survey, field notes
and plat. The papers were received and filed in the Land Office and the grant was treated as confirmed for 496,446.96 acres.
In the reports of the General Land Office, subsequently made,
the tract was named "town of Las Vegas," and the claimants
the "inhabitants of the town."
On March 3, 1869, Congress passed an act which provided
for the issue of patents for private land claims in New Mexico

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

which had theretofore been confirmed by Congress. Section 2
of the act is as follows:
"And be it further enacted, That the Commissioner of the
General Land Office shall, without unreasonable delay, cause
the lands embraced in said several claims to be surveyed and
platted, at the proper expense of the claimants thereof, and
upon the filing of said surveys and plats in his office he shall
issue patents for said land in said Territory which have heretofore been confirmed by acts of Congress and surveyed, and plats
of such survey filed in his office as aforesaid, but for which no
patents have heretofore been issued." 15 Stat. 342, c. 152.
It is stated by counsel for appellants that prior to the act of
March 3, 1869, the General Land Office was without authority
to issue a patent for the lands in controversy. See also Shaw v.
JYellogg, 170 U. S. 342. That act therefore is the sole authority to the General Land Office to issue the patent, and it would
seem not to admit of controversy that the patent must issue to
the confirmee of Congress. We think that the town of Las
Vegas was that confirmee, and this conclusion relieves us from
considering some of the interesting questions discussed by counsel.
The grant originally was as much to a community as to individuals, and a town was contemplated. The decree of the
governor directed the selection of "a site for'a town to be built
by the inhabitants," and the constitutional justice, in executing
the decree, informed those to whom he made "the distribution"
of the land "that the water and pasture were free to all, and
that the joint labor should be done by themselves without any
dispute, and that the wall surrounding the town marked out
should be made by them all, which, being done, that they notify
the justice, in order that he may mark out to each one equally
the portion he is entitled to." A town was started and grew
and had attained substantial proportions at the time the confirmatory act was passed.
The petition of the surveyor general of New Mexico describes
the petitioners as "residents of the town of Las Vegas and its
vicinity," and he manifestly regarded it a claim on behalf of the
town, stated it from that standpoint and reported it to Congress

MAESE v. HERMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

as a claim by the town of Las Vegas. The claim was confirmed
by reference to the report, and the town was especially designated the claimant in section 6 of the confirmatory act. That
it received confirmation at all may be because it was a claim by
a town. Its legality might have been questioned. The claimants in their petition stated that their claim was disputed by
Thomas Cabeza de Baca, and reporting on that dispute the surveyor general said that testimony was introduced to show that
the heirs of Baca protested in 1837 against the occupancy of
the land by the claimants under the grant to Juan de Dios
Maese, and that the claimants "went upon the land, knowing
the existence of a prior grant" -the Baca grant. The surveyor
general, however, did not assume to decide the dispute between
the parties, but referred it to "the proper tribunals of the country" and to Congress. Congress accommodated the dispute by
a magnificent donation of lands to the heirs of Baca, and confirmed the original land to the town; and we can easily see
that Congress might have exercised its bounty to adjust a controversy to which a town was a party, when, if the contestants
were individuals, they would have been remitted to the courts
to litigate their rights and priorities. But however this may
be, we cannot assume that Congress approved the report of the
surveyor general unadvisedly, used the name of the town unadvisedly, or intended primarily some other confirmee.
This interpretation of the act of Congress cannot be changed
even if Las Vegas had or has "no legal or corporate existence."
If the designated confirmee cannot take, another cannot be substituted in its stead. Nor do we think the capacity of the town
to take a patent is open to dispute in the Land Office. Of that
capacity Congress was satisfied, and it is not for the Land Department to conceive and urge doubts about it raised upon disputable legal propositions. The town and its inhabitants were
certainly substantial entities in fact, and were recognized by
Congress as having rights, and directed such rights to be authenticated by a patent of the United States. It is the duty of
the Land Office to issue that patent, to give the town and its
inhabitants the benefit of that authentication, and to remit all
controversies about it to other tribunals and proceedings. It

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

will be observed from this view that the question in the case is
narrower than appellants conceive it. It is not what rights
they had before confirmation of the grant nor what rights they
may assert under or against the patent, but what Congress has
done and what it has directed the Land Department to do. It
is strictly this and nothing more, and on this only we express
an opinion.
-Decree afJlrmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ZERNECKE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 58. Argued October 25,1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.
Section 3 of the Compiled Laws of Nebraska of 1889, c. 72, providing for
the incorporation of railroad companies, is as follows: "Every railroad company, as aforesaid, shall be liable for all damages inflicted
upon the person of passengers while being transported over its road,
except in cases where the injury done arises from the criminal negligence
of the person injured, or when the injury complained of shall be the
violation of some express rule or regulation of said road actually brought
to his or her notice." Held that the plaintiff in error, being a domestic
corporation of Nebraska, accepted with its incorporation the liability so
imposed by the laws of that State, and cannot now complain of it.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xrf'. T. F. Evans for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

Jlfr. X. A. Low

Xi. Tornas C. iunger for defendant in error. .r.
.X.Stewart and Xrfr. A. E. Harvey were on his brief.
MR. JUsTIcE

John

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the district court of Lancaster

