CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &c. R'Y CO. v. EATON. 589
Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
CO. v. EATON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 57. Argued October 25,1901.-Decided January 9,1802.

Chicago, Bock Island and Pacific Railway Co. v. Zernecke, ante, 582, affirmed and followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Jr. TF. F. Evans for plaintiff in error. .Mr. Z. A. Low was
on his brief.
-Yr. Thomas C. 3funger for defendant in error. .Mr. John
. Stewart and -Yr. A. E Harvey were on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MoKENxA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the district court of Thayer
County, Nebraska, by the defendant in error as the administrator of the estate of John R. Mathews, deceased, against the
plaintiff in error, for damages, under a statute of the State, for
the death of Mathews, caused by the derailment of the train of
plaintiff in error upon which Mathews was a passenger.
The record presents the same questions which were presented
and passed on in the case of the plaintiff in error herein against
Zernecke, Administratrix,No. 58 of this term, just decided. As
in the latter case the ground of action in the case at bar was
negligence in the railroad company and its servants. The
answer of the company denied negligence, and alleged that the
derailment was caused by some person or persons unknown to
the company, and not in its employment or under its control,
who willfully, maliciously and feloniously removed and displaced from the track certain spikes, nuts, angle-bars, fishplates,
bolts and rails, and otherwise tore up and destroyed the track.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The company also alleged care in the maintenance of its track
and the management of its train.
The petition alleged that the plaintiff in error "was a corporation, duly incorporated under the laws of the State of
Nebraska," and the admission of the answer was that defendant
in error, "at all times mentioned in said petition, was a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws
of the States of Illinois and Iowa, and a domestic corporation
of the State of Nebraska."
The case was tried before a jury. The evidence of defendant in error (petitioner) was that at the time Mathews was
killed he was being transported as a passenger over the railway of plaintiff in error, and that the train upon which he was
riding was thrown from the track, resulting in his death and
the death of ten other persons. The plaintiff in error then
offered witnesses and depositions to sustain the allegations of
its answer. The testimony, upon the objection of defendant
in error, was rejected, and at the close of the evidence, on
motion of defendant in error, the court instructed the jury as
follows:
"The jury is instructed that if you find from the evidence
that John R. -Mathews was a passenger, being carried on the
train of the defendant railway company that was derailed and
wrecked near Lincoln, Nebraska, on August 9, 1894, thereby
causing the death of said Mathews, and that plaintiff is the
administrator of the estate of said Mathews, then you should
find for the plaintiff if you find a pecuniary loss from such death
has resulted to the next of kin, in this case the father."
The jury returned a verdict for defendant in error for $1500,
upon which judgment was entered. The judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, upon the decision in Chiicago, Rock Island & Paific Railway Company v. Zerneke,
Admninistratrim, 59 Neb. 689, and this writ of error was then
allowed.
The facts, contentions and questions being the same as those
presented in the Zerne7me case, supra, for the reasons stated in
the opinion in that case the judgment is
Ai'rmed.

