KNOXVILLE IRON CO. v. HARBISON.
Statement of the Case.

the composition by the petitioner in the United States under
the name of "Rahtjen's Composition, Holzapfel's Manufacture."
We think the principle which prohibits the right to the exclusive use of a name descriptive of the article after the expiration
of a patent covering its manufacture applies here.
In the manufacture and sale of the article, of course, no deceit
would be tolerated, and the article described as "Rahtjen's Composition" would, when manufactured by defendant, have to be
plainly described as its manufacture. The proof shows this
has been done, and that the article has been sold under a totally
different trade-mark from any used by respondent, and it has
been plainly and fully described as manufactured by defendant
or its assignors, the Holzapfels.
We are of the opinion that no right to the exclusive use in the
United States of the words "1? a h iyen's Composition" has
been shown by respondent, and that the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit should be reversed,
and that of the Circuit Courtfor the Southern District of
ew York afflrmed, and it is so ordered.

KNOXVILLE IRON COMPANY v. HARBISON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 22. Argued and submitted March 7,1901.-Decided October 21, 1901.
The act of the legislature of the State of Tennessee, passed March 17,
1899, Statutes of 1899, c. 11, p. 17, requiring the redemption in cash of
store orders or other evidences of indebtedness issued by employers
in payment of wages due to employ~s, does not conflict with any provisions of the Constitution of the United States relating to contracts.

IN the chancery court of Knox County, Tennessee, Samuel
Harbison, a citizen of said State, on T[une 2, 1899, filed a bill of
complaint against the Knoxville Iron Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Tennessee, alleging

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

that he was the bona fide holder by purchase in due course of
trade of certain specified accepted orders for coal that had been
issued by the defendant company in payment of wages due to
its employ6s; that he had made due demand for their redemption in cash according to law, which demand had been refused;
and that he was entitled to a decree for the amount of said orders with interest. The company filed an answer, denying that
the complainant was a bonafide holder of the orders in question,
and alleging an agreement between the company and its employ~s that the latter would accept coal in payment of said orders, etc.
Proof was taken and the case heard by the chancellor, who
rendered a decree in favor of the complainant for $1702.66 as
principal and interest of said orders with costs. An appeal
was taken by the defendant company to the Court of Chancery
Appeals of Tennessee, an intermediate court of reference in
equity causes, where the decree of the chancery court of Knox
County was affirmed.
The facts as found by the Court of Chancery Appeals are
as follows:
"The defendant is a corporation chartered under chapter 57,
Acts of 1867-'8. The following powers are given by section 4:
'To purchase, hold and dispose of such real estate, not to exceed seventy thousand acres, leases, minerals, iron, coal, oil, salt
and personal property as they may desire, or as they may deem
necessary for the legitimate transaction of their business; to
mine, bore, forge, smelt, work and manufacture, transport, refine and vend the same. The company to have and enjoy, and
exercise, all the rights, privileges and powers belonging to, or
incidental to corporations, which may be convenient to carry
out any business they are in this act authorized to engage in.'
"The defendant has its principal office at Knoxville, where
it is engaged in the manufacture of iron. As an incident to
this business, it also mines and sells coal. Its mines are located
in Anderson County. It works about two hundred employ~s.
It has now and has had for many years a regular pay day,
being that Saturday in every month which is nearest the 20th
day of the month. Upon this pay day each employ6 is paid

KNOXVILLE IRON CO. v. HARBISON.
Statement of the Case.

in cash the amount then due him, excepting what may be due
him from the first of the month up to said pay day; that is,
the company keeps in arrears with its employ6s all the time
to the extent of their wages for about twenty days' time so far
as concerns the matter of cash payments, but they may collect
this sum and all sums that may be due them in coal orders, as
stated below. It does not and will not pay cash to employ~s for
wages at any other time than upon said regular pay days. Defendant, however, nearly always has on hand in its Knoxville
yard a large amount of coal which it sells to all persons who
are willing to purchase, whether such persons are its laborers
or the public generally. For some time prior to the filing of
the bill and at the time the bill was filed the defendant was
and had been accustomed to accept from its laborers after work
had been performed orders for coal in the following form:
"'Let bearer have-bushels of coal and charge to my account.
"The defendant's employ~s axe accustomed to sign orders,
and in this form they are accepted by a stamp in these words:
1899.
"'Accepted"' KNOXVILLE., IoN COTA-Y.'
"Many of the defendant's employ~s have never drawn an
order on the defendant, and many others have used them only
in the purchase of coal for themselves; but the defendant in
this way pays off about seventy-five per cent of the wages earned
by its employ~s. Many of the employ6s who draw these orders
get small wages, ninety cents to one dollar and twenty cents
per day, and sell these orders to get money to live on, but those
who get the largest wages, $65.00 to $175 per month, draw
more of such coal orders in proportion than do those who get
small wages. Defendant has never insisted upon any of its laborers giving any such orders but has been willing to accept
such orders when any employ6 would draw them and ask their
acceptance. Defendant, however, sets apart every Saturday
afternoon, from one o'clock to five o'clock, for the acceptance
of such orders. It makes some profit in accepting said orders
in that, instead of paying the wages of its employ~s in cash, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

pays them in coal at 12 cents per bushel, and also, to some extent, its coal business is increased thereby. On the other hand,
such orders are a convenience to the defendant's employ6s in
the way of enabling them to realize on their wages before the
regular monthly pay day and up to that pay day. When these
orders are drawn by defendant's employ~s and accepted, defendant credits itself with said orders on its accounts with the
persons so drawing them at the rate of twelve cents per bushel
for the amount of coal called for by said orders. There is no
proof of an express agreement between the defendant and its
employ~s that the orders should be paid only in coal, unless the
face of the order shall be construed as setting forth such an
agreement. The only proof of any implied agreement to that
effect is to be found in such inferences as may be drawn from
the face of the orders and from the custom of the company to
issue them and the employ~s to receive them on other than the
regular cash pay days and the fact that no employ6 has ever
presented one of such orders for redemption in anything else
than coal. There is no proof of any compulsion on the part of
the defendant upon its operatives, except in so far as compulsion
may be implied from the fact that unless defendant's operatives
take their wages in coal orders they must always on each
monthly pay day suffer the defendant to be in arrears about
twenty days-that is, that on the regular pay day on that Saturday which is the nearest the 20th of the month the defendant
will not pay wages, except up to the last day of the preceding
month, but will pay in coal orders the whole wages due at the
end of each week, and that such is the course of business between
the defendant and its employ6s. The complainant purchased
six hundred and fourteen of said accepted orders from defendant's employ6s, and within thirty days from the issuance of
each of said orders he presented each of them to the Knoxville
Iron Company, defendant hereto, and demanded that it redeem
them in cash, which was refused by defendant. Complainant
is a licensed dealer in securities and sent his agents among the
employ~s of the defendant to buy these coal orders. They had
previously been selling at seventy-five cents on the dollar-that
is, before the passage of chapter 11, Acts of 1899-but he in-

KNOXVILLE IRON CO. v. HARBISON.
Opinion of the Court.

structed his agents to give eighty-five cents on the dollar, and
the orders now in suit were purchased at that price. They
amount in dollars and cents to $1678.00. There is no evidence
of bad faith on the part of the complainant in the purchase of
said orders."
The orders sued on in this case were issued after the passage
of the act of March 17, 1899.
From the decree of the Chancery Court of Appeals an appeal
was taken by the company to the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
by which court the decrees of the courts below were affirmed.
The case was then brought to this court by a writ of error allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
.X. Edward

. Sanford for the Knoxville Iron Company.
James A. Fowler were on his

21r. Cornelius E. -Lucky and XM.

brief.
2fr. John T Green for Harbison submitted on his brief, upon
which brief was also -Yr. Samuel G. Shields.
MRt. JUSTICE SHIrAS, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought to this court by a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee, involving the
validity, under the Federal Constitution, of an act of the legislature of Tennessee, passed March 17, 1899, Acts of 1899, c. 11,
p. 17, requiring the redemption in cash of store orders or other
evidences of indebtedness issued by employers in payment of
wages due to employ~s.
The caption and material portions of this act are as follows:
"AxACT requiring all persons, firms, corporations, and companies using coupons, scrip, punchout, store orders or other
evidences of indebtedness to pay laborers and employ6s for
labor, or otherwise to redeem the same in good and lawful
money of the United States in the hands of their employ6s,
laborers, or a biona fde holder, and to provide a legal remedy
for collection of same in favor of said laborers, employ~s and
such blna.fde holder.
VOL. cLxXxII-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Tennessee, That all persons, firms, corporations and companies, using coupons, scrip, punchouts, store orders or other evidences of indebtedness to pay their or its laborers and employ~s,
for labor or otherwise, shall, if demanded, redeem the same in
the hands of such laborer, employ6 or bonafte holder, in good
and lawful money of the United States: Provided, The same is
presented and redemption demanded of such person, firm, company or corporation using same as aforesaid, at a regular pay day
of such person, firm, company or corporation to laborers or employ~s, or if presented and redemption demanded as aforesaid
by such laborers, employ~s or bona fide holders at any time
not less than thirty days from the issuance or delivery of such
coupon, scrip, punchout, store order or other evidences of indebtedness to such employ~s, laborers or bona fide holder. Such
redemption to be at the face value of said scrip, punchout, coupon, store order or other evidence of indebtedness: Provided,
further, Said face value shall be in cash the same as its purchasing power in goods, wares and merchandise at the commissary,
company store or other repository of such company, firm, person or corporation aforesaid.
"SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That any employ6, laborer
or bonafide holder referred to in section I of this act, upon presentation and demand for redemption of such scrip, coupon,
punchout, store order or other evidence of indebtedness aforesaid, and upon refusal of such persoi, firm, corporation or company to redeem the same in good and lawful money of the
United States, may maintain in his, her or their own name an
action before any court of competent jurisdiction against such
person, firm, corporation or company, using same as aforesaid
for the recovery of the value of such coupon, scrip, punchout,
store order or other evidence of indebtedness, as defined in sec"tion 1 of this act."
The views of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, sustaining the
validity of the enactment in question, sufficiently appear in the
following extracts from its opinion, a copy of which is found
in the record:
"Confessedly, the enactment now called in question is in all

KNOXVILLE IRON CO. v. HARBISON.
Opinion of the Court.

respects a valid statute and free from objection as such, except
that it is challenged as an arbitrary interference with the right
of contract, on account of which it is said that it is unconstitutional and not the ' law of the land' or ' due process of law.'
"The act does, undoubtedly, abridge or qualify the right of
contract, in that it requires that certain obligations payable in
the first instance in merchandise shall in certain contingencies
be paid in money, yet it is as certainly general in its terms, embracing equally every employer and employ6 who is or may be
in like situation and circumstances, and it is enforcible in the
usual modes established in the administration of governments
with respect to kindred matters. The exact and precise requirement is that all employers, whether natural or artificial
persons, paying their employ6s in 'coupons, scrip, punchouts,
store orders, or other evidences of indebtedness ' shall redeem
the same at face value in money, if demanded by the employ6
or a bona ,fde holder on a regular pay day or at any time not
less than thirty days from issuance (see. 1), and that if payment be not so made upon such demand, the owner may maintain a suit on such evidence of indebtedness and have a money
recovery for the face value thereof in any court of competent
jurisdiction (see. 2).
"There is no prohibition against the issuance of any of the
obligations referred to, nor against payment in merchandise or
otherwise according to their terms, but only a provision that
they shall be paid in money at the election and upon a prescribed demand of the owner. In other words, the effect of
the act is to convert into cash obligations such unpaid merchandise orders, etc., as may be presented for money payment
on a regular pay day or as much as thirty days after issuance.
"Under the act the present defendant may issue weekly
orders for coal, as formerly, and may pay them in that commodity when desired by the holder, but instead of being able,
as formerly, to compel the holder to accept payment of such
orders in coal, the holder may, under the act, compel defendant
to pay them in money. In this way and to this extent the defendant's right of contract is affected.
"Under the act, as formerly, every employ6 of the defend-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ant may receive the whole or a part of his wages in coal orders, and may collect the orders in coal or transfer them to
some one else for other merchandise or for money. His condition is bettered by the act, in that it naturally enables him
to get a better price for his coal orders than formerly, and
thereby gives him more for his labor; and yet, although the
defendant may not in that transaction realize the expected
profit on the amount of coal called for in the orders, it in no
event pays more in dollars and cents for the labor than the
contract price.
"The scope and purpose of the act are thus indicated. The
legislature evidently deemed the laborer at some disadvantage
under existing laws and customs, and by this act undertook to
ameliorate his condition in some measure by enabling him or
his bona fide transferee, at his election and at a proper time, to
demand and receive his unpaid wages in money rather than in
something less valuable. Its tendency, though slight it may
be, is to place the employer and employ6 upon equal ground in
the matter of wages, and, so far as calculated to accomplish
that end, it deserves commendation. Being general in its operation and enforcible by ordinary suit, and being unimpeached
and unimpeachable upon other constitutional grounds, the act
is entitled to full recognition as the ' law of the land' and
Idue process of law' as to the matters embraced, without reference to the state's police power, as was held of an act imposing far greater restrictions upon the right of contract, in the
case of Dugger v. Insurance Company, 95 Tennessee, 245, and
as had been previously decided in respect of other limiting
statutes therein mentioned. Ib. 253, 254.
"Furthermore, the passage of the act was a legitimate exercise of police power, and upon that ground also the legislation
is well sustained. The first right of a State, as of a man, is
self-protection, and with the State that right involves the universally acknowledged power and duty to enact and enforce
all such laws not in plain conflict with some provision of the
state or Federal Constitution as may rightly be deemed necessary or expedient for the safety, health, morals, comfort and
welfare of its people.

KNOXVILLE IRON CO. v. HARBISON.
Opinion of the Court.

"The act before us is, perhaps, less stringent than any one
considered in any of the cases mentioned. It is neither prohibitory nor penal; not special, but general; tending towards
equality between employer and employs in the matter of
wages; intended and well calculated to promote peace and
good order, and to prevent strife, violence and bloodshed.
Such being the character, purpose and tendency of the act,
we have no hesitation in holding that it is valid, both as general legislation, without reference to the state's reserved police
power, and also as a wholesome regulation adopted in the proper
exercise of that power."
The Supreme Court of Tennessee justified its conclusions by
so full and satisfactory a reference to the decisions of this court
as to render it unnecessary for us to travel over the same ground.
It will be sufficient to briefly notice two or three of the latest
cases.
In Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.366, the validity of an act of
the State of Utah, regulating the employment of workingmen
in underground mines and fixing the period of employment at
eight hours per day, was in question. There, as here, it was
contended that the legislation deprived the employers and employ~s of the right to make contracts in a lawful way and for
lawful purposes; that it was class legislation, and not equal or
uniform in its provisions; that it deprived the parties of the
equal protection of the laws; abridged the privileges and immunities of the defendant as a citizen of the United States, and
deprived him of his property and liberty without due process
of law. But it was held, after full review of the previous cases,
that the act in question was a valid exercise of the police power
of the State, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah,
sustaining the legislation, was affirmed.
Where a contfact of insurance provided that the insurance
company should not be liable beyond the actual cash value of
the property at the time of its loss, and where a statute of the
State of Missouri provided that in all suits brought upon policies of insurance against loss or damage by fire, the insurance
company should not be permitted to deny that the property insured was worth at the time of issuing the policy the full

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

amount of the insurance, this court held that it was competent
for the legislature of Missouri to pass such a law even though
it places a limitation upon the right of contract. Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 170 IT. S. 557.
In St. Louis, -T'on .Aountain &c. Railway v. Paul,173 U. S.
404, a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, sustaining
the validity of an act of the legislature of that State which provided that whenever any corporation or person engaged in
operating a railroad should discharge, with or without cause,
any employ6 or servant, the unpaid wages of any such servant
then earned should become due and payable on the date of suich
discharge without abatement or deduction, was affirmed. It is
true that stress was laid in the opinion in that case on the fact
that, in the constitution of the State, the power to amend corporation charters was reserved to the State, and it is asserted
that no such power exists in the present case. But it is also
true that, inasmuch as the right to contract is not absolute in
respect to every matter, but may be subjected to the restraints
demanded by the safety and welfare of the State and its inhabitants, the police power of the State may, within defined limitations, extend over corporations outside of and regardless of the
power to amend charters. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fj Railroad v. _latthews, 174 *U.S. 96.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is
Affirmned.
Mn. JUSTICE BREWER and

MR.

JUSTICE PEoKIIAm dissented.

