OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

law."

Upon the mandate being filed, defendant did not ask

leave to amend his answer, but elected to rely upon his defence
already made. Thereupon the court gave judgment against
him, and he sued out a writ of error from this court. We held
that the judgment of the Supreme Court, being one of reversal
only, was not final; that so far from putting an end to the litigation, it purposely left it open; that the law of the case upon
the pleadings as they stood was settled, but ample power was
left in the Common Pleas to permit the parties to make a new
case by amendment; that the final judgment was that of the
Common Pleas; that "it may have been the necessary result of
the decision of the question presented for its determination; but
it is none the less, on that account, the act of the Common
Pleas," and was,owhen rendered, open to review by the Supreme
Court. The writ was dismissed. A similar case is that of
Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339.
This writ of error is therefore dismissed upon the authority
of Brown v. Union Bank of Florida,4 How. 465; Pepper v.
-Dunlap,5 How. 51; Tracy v. ioleombe, 24 H1ow. 426; MAoore
v. iobbins, 18 Wall. 588; St. Clair Co. v. Lovingston, 18 Wall.
628; Parcels v. Johnson, 20 Wall. 653; Baker v. White, 92
U. S. 176; Bostwick v. Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3; Johnson v
JYeith, 117 U. S. 199.
-Dismissed.

HASELTINE v. CENTRAL BANK OF SPRINGFIELD,
MISSOURI (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 63. Submitted October 29, 1901.-Decided December 2, 1901.

In an action upon a note given to a national bank, the maker cannot set off,
or obtain credit for, usurious interest paid in cash upon the renewals of.
such note, and others of which it was a consolidation.
In cases arising under the second clause of Rev. Stat. sec. 5198, the person
by whom the usurious interest has been paid can only recover the same
back in an action in the nature of an action of debt. The remedy given
by the statute is exclusive.

HASELTINE v. CENT. BK. OF SPRINGFIELD, (NO. 1). 133
Statement of the Case.

THis was an action instituted in the Circuit Court of Greene
County, Missouri, by the Central National Bank to recover of
the defendants the amount of a promissory note for $2240, executed June 15, 1896, by two of the defendants as principals and
two others as sureties.
The answer was a general denial and a special defence of
usury in the original notes, and partial payments, as set up in
the several paragraphs of the answer.
The case was referred to a referee, who reported the note
sued upon to be a renewal note, and a consolidation of five
original notes, the first of which was for $800, given July 27,
1891; the second for $100, of the same date; the third for
$500, dated January 24, 1892, and credited by $100 payment
thereon; the fourth for $340, dated January 16, 1893, and the
fifth and last for $600, dated May 29, 1893.
The referee further found that the defendants had received
on this note of $2240 (or rather out of the notes constituting
that note) the sum of $2199.35 in cash, making the amount
reserved out of the note when it was made of $40.65. That
there had been paid casA discounts upon the several renewals
of the notes which constituted the $2240 note sued upon, down
to October 24, 1894, exclusive of the amounts reserved out of
the notes at the time they were originally given, the sum of
$566.70, which cash discounts were paid in advance at the
dates of the several renewals. That the whole amount of discounts and interest paid, as well as those deducted by the bank,
upon all said loans from the beginning to the end down to and
including the note sued on, was $947.50. That these payments
were made in excess of the legal rate for said loans.
Upon this report the court entered judgment in favor of the
plaintiffs for $2199.35, (or, apparently, by mistake $2199,) that
being the face of the note sued on after deducting the discount
of $40.65, reserved when the note was executed. Upon appeal
to the Supreme Court this judgment was affirmed, 155 Missouri, 58, and defendant sued out this writ of error.
iXr. . A. Haseltine and .'.
error.

James Baker for plaintiffs in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. John 1idout for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question involved in this case is whether, in an action upon a note given to a national bank, the maker may set
off usurious interest paid in cash upon renewals of such note,
and of all others of which it was a consolidation.
In this case, defendants sought to show that they had paid
to the plaintiff bank within two years prior to the execution of
this note, upon other notes of which this was a consolidation,
and also upon this note, usurious interest aggregating $580;
which they asked to have deducted from the principal sum of
$2240, represented by this note, thereby reducing the plaintiff's
claim to $1660.
We understand it to be conceded that, as the note in question
was given to a national bank, the definition of usury and the
penalties affixed thereto must be determined by the National
Banking Act and not by the law of the State. Farmers'& iLechanics' Bank v. Dearing,91 U. S. 29. In that case it was held
that a law of New York forfeiting the entire debt for usury
was superseded by the National Banking law, and that such
law was only to be regarded in determining the penalty for
usury.

That part of the original National Banking Act which deals
with the subject of usury and interest is now embraced in sections 5197 and 5198 of the Revised Statutes, the first one of
which authorizes national banks to charge interest "at the rate
allowed by the laws of the State," and when no rate is fixed
by such laws, a maximum rate of seven per cent. The next section is as follows:
"5198. The taking, receiving, reserving or charging a rate
of interest greater than is allowed by the preceding section,
when knowingly done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest which the note, bill or other evidence of debt carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. In
case the greater rate of interest has been paid, the person by
whom it has been paid, or his legal representatives, may recover

HASELTINE v. CENT. BK. OF SPRINGFIELD, (NO. 1). 135
Opinion of the Court.

back in an action, in the nature of an action of debt, twice the
amount of the interest thus paid from the association taking or
receiving the same; provided such action is commenced within
two years from the time the usurious transaction occurred."
Two separate and distinct classes of cases are contemplated
by this section: first, those wherein usurious interest has been
taken, received, reserved or charged, in which case there shall
be "a forfeiture of the entire interest which the note, bill or
other evidence of debt carrieswith it, or which has been agreed
to bepaid thereon;" second, in case usurious interest has been
paid,the person paying it may recover back twice the amount
of the interest "thus paid from the association taking or receiving the same."
While the first class refers to interest taken and received, as
well as that reserved or charged, the latter part of the clause
apparently limits the forfeiture to such interest as the evidence
of debt carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid, in
contradistinction to interest actuallypaid, which is covered by
the second clause of the section. Carrying this perfectly obvious distinction in mind, the cases in this court are entirely
harmonious.
That of Brown v. ilarion _National Bank, 169 U. S. 416,
arose under the jirst clause. The facts are not stated in the
report of the case, but referring to the original record, it appears that plaintiff sued the bank to recover twice the amount
of certain usurious interest paid to it. Another action was
consolidated with this in which plaintiff sought to enjoin defendant from proving certain notes against the estate of which
he was assignee, in which a large amount of usurious interest
had been included.
In the opinion, a distinction is drawn between usurious interest carried with the evidence of debt or which has been agreed
to be paid, and interest which has actually been paid, and it
was said that interest included in a renewal note, or evidenced
by a separate note, does not thereby cease to be interest within
the meaning of section 5198, and become principal; and that,
in a suit by a national bank upon the note, the debtor may insist that the entire interest, legal and usurious, included in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

written obligation and agreed to be paid, but which has not
been actually paid, shall be either credited on the note, or eliminated from it, and judgment given only for the original
principal debt with interest at the legal rate from the commencement of the suit; and that the forfeiture declared by the
statute is not waived or avoided by giving a separate note for
the interest, or by giving a renewal note in which is included
the usurious interest. It was further held that interest included
in a renewal note is not interest paid, since if it were so, the
borrower could, under the second clause of the section, sue the
lender and recover back twice the amount of the interest thus
paid, when he had not, in fact, paid the debt nor any part of
the interest as such. The words, "in case the greater rate of
interest has been paid," in section 5198, refer to interest actually
paid as distinguished from interest included in the note and
"agreed to be paid."
The cases under the second clause of the section are more
numerous. Barnet v. .ational Bank, 98 IU.S. 555, was an
action by a national bank upon a bill of exchange. Defendants
set up that the acceptors had been constant borrowers from the
bank for several years, and that it had taken from them a large
amount of usurious interest; that the bill in suit was the last
of eight renewals, and that illegal interest had been taken upon
the series to the amount of $1116, which it was insisted should
be applied as a payment upon the bill in question. It was also
insisted that illegal interest had been taken upon other bills of
exchange to the amount of $6363.24, and that the defendants
were entitled to recover double this amount from the bank.
It was held that the state statutes upon the subject of usury
should be laid out of view, and that where a statute created a
new right or offence and provided a specific remedy or punishment, that remedy alone could apply; that the payment of
usurious interest being distinctly averred, it could not be recovered by way of offset or payment of the bill in suit, and that
the same rule applied to the payment of interest upon other
bills of exchange which the defendants sought to recover back.
The case of lDriesbach v. .National Bank, 104 U. S. 52, was
a like suit by a bank upon a note, upon several renewals of

HASELTINE v. CENT. BK. OF SPRINGFIELD, (NO. 2). 137
Opinion of the Court.

which usurious interest had been paid. It was said that, as the
claim was not for interest stipulated for and included in the
note sued on, but for the application of what had been actually
paid as interest to the discharge of principal, there could be no
set-off against the face of the notes.
In Stephens v. Yonongahela Bank, 111 U. S. 197,-a similar
case of interest actually paid-the averments of the defence
were made under the first clause of the section; that "the bank
knowingly took, received and charged" usurious interest, but
as it elsewhere appeared that the interest stipulated had not
been included in the note, but that interest had been actually
paid at the time of the discount and renewals, which it was
sought to apply to the discharge of the principal, the defence
was held insufficient.
The construction of both clauses of this section having been
thus settled by this court, it only remains to determine to which
class of cases the one under consideration properly belongs.
As to this there can be no room for doubt. The referee finds
that there was paid cash discounts on the several renewals of
the notes which constitute the $2240 note, as well as the renewal of said note as executed, down to October 24, 1894, exclusive of the amounts reserved out of the notes at the time
they were originally given, the sum of $566.70, which cash discounts were paid in advance at the date of the several renewals.
He further found that the "defendants in their answer are only
asking credit for the payments down to and including October 29, 1894, which aggregate the sum of $540.40." Under
the rulings last above cited the person making these cash payments can only recover them back by a direct action against
the association taking or receiving the same.
The Supreme Court of Missouri was correct in holding that
the defendants could not be allowed set-off or credit for the
usurious interest thus paid, the remedy provided by the statute
being exclusive, and its judgment is therefore
Afflrmed.

