WILSON v. NELSON.
Statement of the Case.

them. If errors supervene, the remedy by writ of error is
open to the party aggrieved. -Robb v. Conno~y, 111 IU.S. 624,
637.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a direction to remand to the state court. Costs of this court and of the Circuit Court to bepaid by the appellees and defendants.

WILSON

.

ELSON.

CERTIFICATE FROMX THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 31. Submitted April 22, 1901.-Decided December 9, 1901.
When a debtor, years before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, gives to
a creditor an irrevocable power of attorney to confess judgment after maturity upon a promissory note of the debtor; and the creditor, within
four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against the
debtor, obtains such a judgment and execution thereon; and the debtor
fails, at least five days before a sale on the execution, to vacate or discharge the judgment, or to file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy; the
judgment and execution are a preference "suffered or permitted" by
the debtor, within the meaning of the bankrupt act of July 1, 1898,
c. 541, § 3, cl. 3, and the debtor's failure to vacate or discharge the preference so obtained is an act of bankruptcy under that act.

THE Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit certified
to this court the following statement of facts and questions of
law:
"On February 5, 1885, Cassius B. Nelson executed and delivered to Sarah Johnstone his promissory note in writing for
the sum of $8960, payable 'five years or before after date,'
with interest at the rate of four per cent per annum until paid.
To this note was attached an irrevocable power of attorney,
duly executed by the said Nelson under his hand and seal in the
usual form, authorizing any attorney of any court of record in
his name to confess judgment thereon after maturity of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

note. This note was given for so much money at the time
loaned to Nelson, and the interest on the note was paid from
time to time up to November 1, 1898. Nelson was a trader,
and entered into business as such at the city of Madison, Wisconsin, soon after the giving of the note, and carried on such
business until his stock in trade was levied upon by the sheriff
under execution as hereinafter stated. On November 1, 1898,
Nelson, as he well knew, was and had long been insolvent, and
thereafter continued to be and is now insolvent, his liabilities
largely exceeding his assets.
"On November 21, 1898, Sarah Johnstone caused judgment to
be duly entered in the circuit court of the State of Wisconsin
for the county of Dane against said Nelson upon the note and
warrant of attorney aforesaid for the sum of $8975, damages
and costs, being the face of the note and $15 costs. Upon that
judgment execution was immediately thereafter issued out of
the court to the sheriff of that county, who thereunder and by
authority thereof on the same day levied upon the stock and
goods of Nelson, and thereafter and on December 15, 1898,
sold the same at public auction, and applied the proceeds
thereof, to wit, the sum of $4400, upon and in part payment of
the judgment so rendered. This proceeding left the said Nelson without means to meet any other of his obligations. The
judgment was so entered, and the levy made, without the procurement of Nelson and without his knowledge or consent.
Such judgment was not subject to attack by Nelson, and could
not have been vacated or discharged by any legal proceedings
which might have been instituted by him in that behalf, nor
could the levy under the execution issued upon such judgment
have been set aside or vacated by Nelson, except by his filing
his voluntary petition in bankruptcy prior to the sale and obtaining an adjudication of bankruptcy thereunder, or by payment of the judgment.
"On December 10, 1898, creditors of the said Nelson, of the
requisite number and holding debts against him to the requisite
amount, filed their petition against the said Nelson in the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin, sitting in bankruptcy, to procure an adjudication against

WILSON v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

him as a bankrupt.

The act of bankruptcy therein alleged was

in substance that while insolvent he suffered and permitted the
said Sarah Johnstone, one of his creditors, to obtain preference
upon his property through legal proceedings by the entry of
the said judgment and the levy thereunder upon his stock of
goods, and failed to vacate or discharge the preference obtained
through such legal proceedings at least five days before the sale
of the property under such judgment and execution. Upon issue joined the District Court ruled that the said Nelson had not,
by reason of the premises, committed an act of bankruptcy, and
this ruling is before us for review.
"The questions of law upon which this court desires the advice
and instruction of the Supreme Court are:
"1. Whether the said Cassius B. Nelson, by failure to file
his voluntary petition in bankruptcy before the sale under such
levy, and to procure thereon an adjudication of bankruptcy, or
by his failure to pay and discharge the judgment before the
sale under such levy, committed an act of bankruptcy, within
the meaning of section 3a, subdivision (3), of the Bankrupt
Act.
"2. Whether the judgment so entered and the levy of the
execution thereon was a preference ' suffered' or ' permitted' by
the said Nelson within the meaning of clause (3) of section 3a
of the Bankrupt Law.
"3. Whether the failure of Nelson to vacate and discharge
the preference so obtained, if it was one, at least five days before the execution sale, was an act of bankruptcy."
.Mr. 7ames .X. Flower, .Mr. Harrison .Musgrave, and -Mr.
Daniel - T'enney for appellants.
-Mr. William F. Vilas and XrA. R. X. Bashford for appellee.
Mr. JusTIcE GR&AY, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
On February 5, 1885, Nelson, in consideration of so much
VOL. CLxx n-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

money then lent to him by Sarah Johnstone, executed and delivered to her his promissory note for the sum of $8960, payable
in five years with interest until paid. Attached to that note
was an irrevocable power of attorney, executed by Nelson, in
the usual form, authorizing any attorney of a court of record in
his name to confess judgment thereon after its maturity. The
interest on the note was paid until November 1,1898. At that
date Nelson, as he well knew, was, and long had been, and ever
since continued to be, insolvent. On November 21, 1898, Sarah
Johnstone caused judgment to be duly entered in a court of
Wisconsin upon the note and the warrant of attorney for the
face of the note and costs. Upon that judgment, execution
was issued to the sheriff, who on the same day levied on Nelson's
goods, and on December 15, 1898, sold the goods by auction, and
applied the proceeds thereof in part payment of the judgment.
This proceeding left Nelson with6ut means to meet any other of
his obligations. The judgment was entered, and the levy made,
without the procurement of Nelson, and without his knowledge
or consent. The judgment and levy were unassailable in law,
and could not have been vacated or discharged by any legal
proceedings, except by his voluntary petition in bankruptcy.
On December 10, 1898, a petition in bankruptcy was filed against
Nelson; and the questions certified present, in various forms,
the question whether Nelson committed an act of bankruptcy,
within the meaning of section 3, cl. 3, of the Bankrupt Act of
1898.
In considering these questions, strict regard must be had to
the provisions of that act, which, as this court has already had
occasion to observe, differ in important respects from those of
the earlier bankrupt acts. Bardes v. .fawarden Bank, 178 U. S.
524; Bryan,v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188; Wall v. Cox, 181
U. S. 244; Piriev. Chicago Co., 182 U. S. 438.
In section 3 of the Bankrupt Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, acts
of bankruptcy are defined as follows: "Acts of bankruptcy by
a person shall consist of his having (1) conveyed, transferred,
concealed or removed, or permitted to be concealed or removed,
any part of his property with intent to hinder, delay or defraud
his creditors, or any of them ; or (2) transferred, while insol-

WILSON v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

vent, any portion of his property to one or more of his creditors
with intent to prefer such creditors over his other creditors;
or (3) suffered or permitted, while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference through legal proceedings, and not having, at
least five days before a sale or final disposition of any property
affected by such preference, vacated or discharged such preference; or (4) made a general assignment for the benefit of his
creditors; or (5) admitted in writing his inability to pay his
debts and his willingness to be adjudged a bankrupt on that
ground."
In the first and second of these an intent on the part of the
bankrupt, either to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors, or to
prefer over other creditors, is necessary to constitute the act of
bankruptcy. But in the third, fourth and fifth no such intent
is required.
The third, which is that in issue in the case at bar, is in these
words: "(3) suffered or permitted, while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference through legal proceedings, and not
having, at least five days before a sale or final disposition of
any property affected by such preference, vacated or discharged
such preference."
By the corresponding provision of the Bankrupt Act of 1867,
any person who, being bankrupt or insolvent, or in contemplation of bankruptcy or insolvency, "procures or suffers his property to be taken on legal process, with intent to give a preference
to one or more of his creditors," "or with the intent, by such
disposition of his property, to defeat or delay the operation of
this act," was deemed to have committed an act of bankruptcy.
Act of March 2, 1867, c. 176, § 39, 14 Stat. 536; Rev. Stat.

§ 5021.

The act of 1898 differs from that of 1867 in wholly omitting
the clauses "with intent to give a preference to one or more of
his creditors" or "to defeat or delay the operation of this act;"
and in substituting for the words "procures or suffers his property to be taken on legal process," the words "suffered or permitted, while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference
through legal proceedings," and not having, five days before a
sale of the property affected, "vacated or discharged such preference."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

There is a similar difference in the two statutes in regard to
the preferences declared to be avoided.
The act of 1867 enacted that if any person, being insolvent,
or in contemplation of insolvency, within four months before
the filing of the petition by or against him, "with a view to
give a preference to any creditor or person having a claim
against him, or who is under any liability for him, procures or
suffers any part of his property to be attached, sequestered or
seized on execution," or makes any payment, pledge or conveyance of any part of his property, the person receiviug such payment, pledge or conveyance, or to be benefited thereby, "or
by such attachment," having reasonable cause to believe that
such person is insolvent and that the same is made in fraud of
this act, the same should be void and the assignee might recover
the property. Act of March 2, 1867, c. 176, § 35, 14 Stat. 534;
Rev. Stat. § 5128.
The corresponding provisions of the act of 1898 omit the
requisite of the act of 1867, "with a view to give a preference."
Section 60 of the act of 1898, relating to "preferred creditors," begins by providing that "a person shall be deemed to
have given a preference, if, being insolvent, he has procured or
suffered a judgment to be entered against himself in favor of
any person, or made a transfer of any of his property, and the
effect of the enforcement of such judgment or transfer will be
to enable any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than any other of such creditors of the same
class."
Section 67, relating to "liens," provides, in subdivision 0,as
follows: ".A lien created by, or obtained in, or pursuant to, any
suit or proceeding at law or in equity, including an attachment
upon mesne process, or a judgment by confession, which was
begun against a person within four months before the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy, by or against such person, shall be
dissolved by the adjudication of such person to be a bankrupt,
if (1) it appears that said lien was obtained and permitted while
the defendant was insolvent, or that its existence and enforcement will work a preference, or (2) the party or parties to be
benefited thereby had reasonable cause to believe the defendant

WILSON v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

was insolvent and in contemplation of bankruptcy, or (3) that
such lien was sought and permitted in fraud of the provisions
of this act."
The same section provides, in subdivision f, "that all levies,
judgments, attachments or other liens, obtained through legal
proceedings against a person wvho is insolvent, at any time
within four months prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against him, shall be deemed null and void, in case he
is adjudged a bankrupt." This provision evidently includes
voluntary, as well as involuntary bankrupts; for the first clause
of the first section of the act, defining the meaning of words
and phrases used in the act, declares that "' a person against
whom a petition has been filed' shall include a person who has
fied a voluntary petition."
Taking together all the provisions of the act of 1898 on this
subject, and contrasting them with the provisions of the act of
1867, there can be no doubt of their meaning.
The third clause of section 3, omitting the word "procure,"
and the phrase "intent to give a preference," of the former
statute, makes it an act of bankruptcy if the debtor has "suffered
or permitted, while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference
through legal proceedings," and has not "vacated or discharged
such preference" five days before a sale of the property. By
section 60, he is "deemed to have given a preference" if, being
insolvent, he has "suffered a judgment to be entered against
himself in favor of any person," "and the effect of the enforcement of such judgment" "will be to enable any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt" than other
creditors. By section 67,subdivision c, a lien obtained in any
suit, "including an attachment upon mesne process, or a judgment by confession," begun within four months before the
filing of the petition in bankruptcy, is dissolved by the adjudication in bankruptcy, not only if "such lien was sought and
permitted in fraud of the provisions of this act," but also if
"its existence and enforcement will work a preference." And
by subdivision f of the same section "all levies, judgments, attachments or other liens, obtained through legal proceedings
against a person who is insolvent," within the four months,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be deemed null and void in case he is adjudged a bankrupt.
The act of 1898 makes the result obtained by the creditor,
and not the specific intent of the debtor, the essential fact.
In the case at bar, the warrant of attorney to confess judgment was indeed given by the debtor nearly thirteen years before. But being irrevocable and continuing in force, the debtor
thereby, without any further act of his, "suffered or permitted"
a judgment to be entered against him, within four months before
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, the effect of the enforcement of which judgment would be to enable the creditor to
whom it was given to obtain a greater percentage of his debt
than other creditors; and the lien obtained by which, in a proceeding begun within the four months, would be dissolved by the
adjudication in bankruptcy, because "its existence and enforcement will work a preference." And the debtor did not, within
five days before the sale of the property on execution, vacate or
discharge such preference, or file a petition in bankruptcy. By
failing to do so, he confessed that he was hopelessly insolvent,
and consented to the preference that he failed to vacate.
The cases on which the appellee relies, of Wilson v. City Bank,
17 Wall. 473; Clark v. Iselin, 21 Wall. 360, and National Bank
v. Wfarren, 96 U. S. 539, have no application, because they were
decided under the act of 1867, which expressly required the
debtor to have acted with intent to give a preference.
The case of Buckingham v. .YoLean, 13 How. 150, arose
under the still earlier Bankrupt Act of August 19, 1841, c. 9,
§ 2. 5 Stat. 442. And the point there decided was that a power
of attorney to confess a judgment was an act of the bankrupt
creating a "security," which that bankrupt act in express terms
declared void only if made in contemplation of bankruptcy and
for the purpose of giving a preference or priority over general
creditors.
The careful change in the language of the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act of 1898 from those of the former Bankrupt
Acts upon the subject must have been intended by Congress to
prevent a debtor from giving a creditor an irrevocable warrant
of attorney which would enable him, at any time, during the in-

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHiRAS, J., THE CmEF JUSTICE, BREwER and P=cKAM, JJ., dissenting.

solvency of the debtor, and within four months before a petition
in bankruptcy, to obtain a judgment and levy the execution on
all the property of the bankrupt, to the exclusion of his other
creditors.
The answer to the second and third questions certijied must
be that the judgment so entered and the levy of the execution
thereon were a preference "suffered or permitted " by Nelson, within the meaningof clause 3 of section 3 of the Bankrupt Act; and that thefailure of NYelson to vacate and discharge, at least ftve days before the sale on execution, the
preference so obtained, was an adt of bankruptcy; and it
becomes unnecessary to answer the first question. Second
and third questions answered in the aJfirmative.
MR. JUSTICE SIIBAS, with whom concurred THE C.HrEF JUSTICE,
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, and MR. JUSTICE PEoKHAm, dissenting.

On February 5, 1885, Cassius B. Nelson made and delivered
to Sarah Johnstone his promissory note for the sum of $8960,
payable in five years, with interest at the rate of four per cent per
annum until paid. To this note was attached an irrevocable
power of attorney, duly executed by said Nelson under his
hand and seal in the usual form, authorizing any attorney of
any court of record in his name to confess judgment thereon
after maturity of the note. This note was given for so much
money at the time loaned to Nelson. The interest on the note
was paid from time to time up to the 1st day of November,
1898.
On November 21,1898, Sarah Johnstone caused judgment to
be duly entered in the circuit court of the county of Dane,
State of Wisconsin, against said Nelson upon the note and warrant of attorney aforesaid for the sum of $8975. Upon that
judgment execution was immediately issued out of the court
to the sheriff of that county, who levied upon the stock and
goods of Nelson, and on December 15, 1898, sold the same at
public auction and applied the proceeds thereof, to wit, the sum
of $4400, upon and in part payment of the judgment so rendered.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
SMRAs, J., THE C=1EF JUSTICE, BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

It is admitted that such a judgment note was, at the time it
was made and delivered under the law of the State of Wisconsin, a legal and usual form of security for money loaned. iMcCaul v. Thayer, 7O Wisconsin, 138; Second Ward Savings Bank
v. Schranck, 97 Wisconsin, 250.
It is also admitted that the judgment was executed, and the
levy made without the procurement of Nelson, and without his
knowledge or consent, and that such judgment was not subject
to attack by Nelson and could not have been vacated or discharged by any legal proceedings which might have been instituted by him, nor could the levy issued under the execution
have been set aside or vacated by Nelson, unless his filing his
voluntary petition in bankruptcy prior to the sale, and obtaining an adjudication of bankruptcy thereunder would have had
that effect, or by payment of the judgment.
On December 10, 1898, creditors of said Nelson filed a petition in involuntary bankruptcy against him in the District Court
of the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin.
The act of bankruptcy therein alleged was in substance that
while insolvent he suffered and permitted the said Sarah Johnstone, one of his creditors, to obtain preference upon his property through legal proceedings by the entry of said judgment
and the levy thereunder upon his stock of goods, and failed to
vacate or discharge the preference obtained through such legal
proceedings at least five days before the sale of the property
under such judgment and execution. Upon issue joined, the
District Court ruled that Nelson had not, by reason of the premises, committed an act of bankruptcy, and dismissed the petition.
An appeal was taken to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, and that court has certified certain questions for the consideration of this court.
The essential question in the case is whether, under the facts
disclosed, Nelson was guilty of an act of bankruptcy in failing
to file a petition in voluntary bankruptcy. This question must
be answered in the negative if we respect previous decisions of
this court in similar cases.
The subject was considered in Buckingham v. .lkLean, 13
How. 151. The case arose under the Bankrupt Act of 1841,

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHIBAS, J., THE CHEEF

JUSTICE, BREWER

and PEcI-TA3, JJ., dissenting.

and it appeared that one John Mfahard had (on April 7,1842)
executed a power of attorney to confess judgment in favor of
Buckingham for $14,000; judgment was entered the next day;
execution was issued April 20, and levy was made and sale of
property, real and personal. On May 27, 1842, Mahard petitioned to be declared a bankrupt.
There were other questions in the case, but Mr. Justice Curtis, in his discussion of the question now before us, and speaking for the court, made the following observations:
"In many of the States, a bond and warrant of attorney to
enter up a judgment is a usual mode of taking security for a
debt, and judgments thus entered are treated as securities, and
an equitable jurisdiction exercised over them by courts of law.
In some States, they operate only as a lien on the lands of the
debtor, in others on his personal estate also, (Br.own v. Clark,
4 How. 4;) and wherever, by the local law, a judgment or an
execution operates to make a lien on property, we are of opinion it is to be deemed a security; and when rendered upon confession, under a power given by the debtor for that purpose, it
is a security, made or given by him within the meaning of the
bankrupt act, and is void, if accompanied by the facts made
necessary by that act to render securities void. These facts are,
that the security was given 'in contemplation of bankruptcy,
and for the purpose of giving any creditor, endorser, surety or
other person a preference or priority over the general creditors
of such bankrupt.'
"The inquiry, whether this security was given in contemplation of bankruptcy, involves the question what is meant by
these words? It is understood that, while the bankrupt law
was in operation, different interpretations were placed upon
them in different circuits. By some judges they were held to
mean contemplation of insolvency-of a simple inability to pay
as debts should become payable-whereby his business would
be broken up; this was considered to be a state of bankruptcy,
the contemplation of which was sufficient. By other judges it
was held that the debtor was contemplating an act of bankruptcy, or a voluntary application for the bankrupt law. It is
somewhat remarkable that this question should be presented

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
SHIRAS, J., THE CBIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and P.EcKHAm, JJ., dissenting.

for the first time for the decision of this court after the law has
been so long repealed, and nearly all proceedings under it terminated. Perhaps the explanation may be found in the fact
that when securities have been given within two months before
a petition by or against a debtor, the evidence would usually
bring the case within either interpretation of the law. However this may be, it is now presented for decision; and we are
of opinion that, to render the security void, the debtor must
have contemplated an act of bankruptcy, -or an application by
himself to be decreed a bankrupt.
"Under the common law, conveyances by a debtor to bona
fide creditors are vdlid, though the debtor has become insolvent
and failed, and makes the conveyance for the sole purpose of
giving a preference over his other creditors. This common law
right, it was the object of the second section of the act to restrain; but, at the same time, in so guarded a way as not to interfere with transactions consistent with the reasonable accomplishment of the objects of the act. To give to these words,
'contemplation of bankruptcy,' a broad scope and somewhat
loose meaning, would not be in furtherance of the general purpose with which they were introduced.
"The word bankruptcy occurs many times in this act. It is
entitled 'An act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy.'
And the word is manifestly used in other parts of the law to
describe a particular status, to be ascertained and declared by a
judicial decree. It cannot be easily admitted that this very
precise and definite term is used in this clause to signify something quite different. It is certainly true in point of fact that
even a merchant may contemplate insolvency and the breaking
up of his business, and yet not contemplate bankruptcy. He
may confidently believe that his personal character, and the
state of his affairs, and the disposition of his creditors, are such
that when they shall have examined into his condition they will
extend the times of payment of their debts and enable him to resume business. A person not a merchant, banker, etc., and consequently not liable to be proceeded against and made a bankrupt, though insolvent, may have come to a determination that
he will not petition. The contemplation of one of these states,

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHIXAS, J., Tim CHIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and PEOKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

not being in fact the contemplation of the other, to say that both
were included in a term which describes only one of them, would
be a departure from sound principles of interpretation. Moreover, the provisos in this section tend to show what was the real
meaning of the first enacting clause. The object of these provisos was to protect bonafde dealings with the bankrupt more
than two months before the filing of the petition by or against
him, provided the other party was ignorant of such an intent on
the part of the bankrupt as made the security invalid under the
first enacting clause. And the language is: 'Provided, that
the other party to any such dealings or transactions had no notice of a prior act of bankruptcy or of the intention of the bankrupt to take the benefit of this act.' These facts, of one of
which a bona Jfde creditor must have notice, to render his security void, if taken more than two months before the filing of
the petition, can hardly be supposed to be different from the
facts which must exist to render the security void under the
j.rst clause; or, in other words, if it be enough for the debtor
to contemplate an act of insolvency it could hardly be required
that the creditor should have notice of an act of bankruptcy or
an intention to take the benefit of the act. It would seem that
notice to the creditor of what is sufficient to avoid the security
must deprive him of its benefits, and, consequently, if he must
have notice of something more than insolvency, something
more than insolvency is required to render the security invalid,
and that we may safely take this description of the facts which
a creditor must have notice of to avoid the security as descriptive also of what the bankrupt must contemplate to render it
void.
"In construing a similar clause in the English bankrupt law,
there have been conflicting decisions. It has been held that
contemplation of a state of insolvency was sufficient. Pulling
v. Tucoer, 4 B. & Ald. 382; Polandv. Glyn, 2 Dow. & Ry. 310.
But both the earlier and later decisions were otherwise, and, in
our judgment, they contain the sounder rule. Fidgeon v. Sharpe,
5 Taunt. 545; Hartkhorn v. Shodden, 2 Bos. & Pul. 582;
Gibbon v. Phillips,7 B. & 0. 529 ; Balkerv. Brittie,10 Bing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
SEnRAs, J., THE C=F JusTicE, BREWER and PECKAm, JJ., dissenting.

408; ilforgan v. Brandrett,5 B. & M-. 297. And see the opinion of Patterson, J., in the last case.
"Considering, then, that it is necessary to show that the
debtor contemplated an act of bankruptcy, or a decree adjudging him. a bankrupt on his own petition, at what time in this
case must he have had this in contemplation? He gave the
power of attorney on the 7th of April; the judgment was confessed and entered up the next day; the execution was taken
out and levied, and the lien created thereby on the 22d of May;
and five days afterwards, being less than two months after the
execution of the power, the debtor presented the petition under
which he was decreed a bankrupt. The only act done by the
debtor was the execution and delivery of the power of attorney.
It was a security by him made or given only by reason of that
instrument. What followed were acts of the creditors and of
officers of the law, with which the debtor is no more connected
than with the delivery by the creditor of a deed to the office
of the register to be recorded, or the act of the register in recording it. It would seem that if the intent of the debtor is
to give a legal qualification to a transaction, it must be an intent accompanying an act done by himself, and not an intent
or purpose arising in his mind afterwards, while third persons are acting; and, that consequently, we must inquire
whether the debtor contemplated bankruptcy when he executed
the power.
"It is true this contention would put it in the power of
creditors, by taking a bond and warrant of attorney, while the
debtor was solvent and did not contemplate bankruptcy, to
enter up a judgment and issue execution, and by a levy acquire
a valid lien, down to the very moment when the title of the
assignee began. But this was undoubtedly so under the statute of James, which, like ours, contained no provision to meet
this mischief; and it became so great that, by the one hundred
and fifth section of the revising act of 6 Geo. IV, it was enacted that Ino.creditor, though for a valuable consideration, who
shall sue out execution on any judgment obtained by default,
confession or nil dicit,shall avail himself of such execution, to
the prejudice of other fair creditors, but shall be paid ratably

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHmAs, J., Tnn C=nF JUSTICE, BREWER and PECKHAm, JJ., dissenting.

with such creditors.' If the Bankrupt Act of 1841 had continued to exist, a similar addition to its provisions would doubtless have become necessary."
This suggestion of Justice Curtis was justified by provisions
contained in the bankruptcy acts of 1867 and 1898, which enacted that liens obtained by attachments upon mesneprocess, or
judgment by confession, within four months before the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy, by or against the creditor, shall be dissolved by the adjudication of the debtor to be a bankrupt, if it
appear that such a lien wasprocured or su~fered, obtained and
permitted, while the debtor was insolvent and contemplating
bankruptcy, the party or parties to be benefited thereby having
reasonable cause to believe that the debtor was insolvent and
in contemplation of insolvency. But, as we shall presently see,
such provisions do not affect the question before us now.
In Wilson v. Gity Bank, 17 Wall. 473, decided under the provisions of the act of 1867, it was held, that something more than
passive non-resistance in an insolvent debtor is necessary to invalidate a judgment and levy on his property, when the debt
is due and he has no defence; and that in such case there is no
legal obligation on the debtor to file a petition in bankruptcy
to prevent the judgment and levy, and a failure to do so is not
sufficient evidence of an intent to give a preference to the judgment creditor, or to defeat the operation of the bankrupt law.
In his opinion, discussing the facts of the case, Mr. Justice Miller said:
"There is nothing morally wrong in the course of the defendants in this matter. They were sued for a just debt. They
had no defence to it, and they made none. To have made an
effort, by dilatory or false pleas, to delay a judgment in the
state court, would have been a moral wrong and a fraud upon
the due administration of the law. There was no obligation
upon them to do this, either in law or in ethics. Any other
creditor whose debt was due could have sued as well as this
one, and any of them could have instituted compulsory bankrupt proceedings. The debtor neither hindered nor facilitated
any one of them. How is it possible to infer, logically, an ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
SHIAS, J., THE CHIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and PECKHAm,

JJ., dissenting.

tual purpose to prefer one creditor to another, or to hinder or
delay the operation of the bankrupt act?
"It is said, however, that such an intent is a legal inference
from such inaction by the debtor, necessary to the successful
operation of the bankrupt law; that the grand feature of that
law is to secure equality of distribution among creditors in all
cases of insolvency, and that, to secure this, it is the legal duty
of the insolvent, when sued by one creditor in an ordinary proceeding likely to end in judgment and seizure of property, to
file himself a petition of voluntary bankruptcy, and that this
duty is to be inferred from the spirit of the law, and is essential
to its successful operation.
"The argument is not without force, and has received the assent of a large number of the district judges, to whom the administration of the bankrupt law is more immediately confided.
We are, nevertheless, not satisfied of its soundness. We have already said that there is no moral obligation on the part of the
insolvent to do this, unless the statute requires it, and then only
because it is a duty imposed by law. It is equally clear that
there is no such duty imposed by the act in express terms. It
is, therefore, an argument solely of implication. This implication is said to arise from the supposed purpose of the statute to
secure equality of distribution in all cases of insolvency, and to
make the argument complete, it is further necessary to hold
that this can only be done in bankruptcy proceedings under that
statute. Does the statute justify so broad a proposition? Does
it in effect forbid all proceedings to collect debts in cases of insolvency, in other courts, and in all other modes than by bankruptcy ? We do not think that its purpose of securing equality
of distribution is designed to be carried so far. As before remarked, the voluntary clause is wholly voluntary. No intimation is given that the bankrupt must file a petition under any
circumstances. While his q'ight to do so is without any other
limit than his own sworn averment that he is unable to pay all
his debts, there is not a word from which we can infer any legal
obligation on him to do so. Such an obligation would take
from the right the character of a privilege, and confer on it
that of a burdensome and, often, ruinous duty. It is, in its es-

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHIEAS, J., THE CHIEF

JUSTICE, BREWER and PECKHrAM,

JJ., dissenting.

sence, involuntary bankruptcy. But the initiation in this kind
of bankruptcy is, by the statute, given to the creditor, and is
not imposed on the debtor. And it is only given to the creditor in a limited class of cases. The argument we are combatting goes upon the hypothesis that there is another class given
to the creditor by inference, namely, where the debtor ought
himself to go into court as a bankrupt and fails to do it. We
do not see the soundness of this implication from anything in
the statute.
"We do not construe the act as intended to cover aZZ cases of
insolvency to the exclusion of other judicial proceedings. It is
very liberal in the classes of insolvents which it does include,
and needs no extension in this direction by implication. But it
still leaves, in a great majority of cases, parties who are really
insolvent to the chances that their energy, care and prudence in
business may enable them finally to recover without disastrous
failure or positive bankruptcy. All experience shows both the
wisdom and justice of this policy. Many find themselves with
ample means, good credit, large business, technically insolvent,
that is, unable to meet their current obligations as fast as they
mature. But by forbearance of creditors, by meeting only such
debts as are pressed, and even by the submission of some of
their property to be seized on execution, they are finally enabled
to pay all, and to save their commercial character and much of
their property. If creditors are not satisfied with this, and the
parties have committed an act of bankruptcy, any creditor can
institute proceedings in a bankrupt court. But until this is done,
their honest struggle to meet their debts and to avoid the breaking up of all their business is not, of itself, to be construed an
act of bankruptcy or a fraud upon the act.
"It is also argued that inasmuch as to lay by and permit one
creditor to obtain judgment and levy on property necessarily
gives that creditor a preference, the debtor must be supposed to
intend that which he knows will follow. The general legal
proposition is true, that where a person does a positive act, the
consequence of which he knows beforehand, that he must be
held to intend those consequences. But it cannot be inferred
that a man intends, in the sense of desiring, prosecuting or pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
SHIRAS, J., THE CHIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and PECKHAm,

JJ., dissenting.

curing it, a result of other persons' acts, when he contributes
nothing to their success or completion, and is under no legal or
moral obligation to binder or prevent them.
"Argument confirmatory to these views may be seen in the
fact that all the other acts or modes of preference of creditors
found in both the sections we have mentioned, in direct context
with the one we have considered, are of a positive and affirmative character, and are evidences of an active desire or wish to
prefer one creditor to another. Why, then, should a passive
indifference and inaction, where no action is required by positive law or good morals, be construed into such a preference
as the law forbids? The construction thus contended for is,
in our opinion, not justified by the words of either of the sections referred to, and can only be sustained by imputing to the
general scope of the bankrupt act a harsh and illiberal purpose,
at variance with its true spirit and with the policy which
prompted its enactment."
The principles of this case were approved and applied in
Clark v. Iselin, 21 Wall. 360, where it was held that the giving
by a debtor, for a consideration of equal value, passing at the
time, of a warrant of attorney to confess judgment, is not an
act of bankruptcy, though such warrant or confession be not
entered of record, but to be kept as such things usually are, in
the creditor's own custody, and with their existence unknown
to others; that the creditor may enter judgment of record
thereon when he pleases, even upon insolvency apparent, and
issue execution and sell; and that his action is valid and not
in fraud of the bankrupt law, unless he is assisted by the debtor.
The facts of that case were, in respect to the question before
us, similar to those of the present. In the opinion Mr. Justice
Strong, after citing with approval Wilson v. City Bank, said:
"Now, in a case where a creditor, holding a confession of
judgment perfectly lawful when it was given, causes the judgment to be entered of record, how can it be said the debtor procures the entry at the time it is made? It is true
the judgment is entered in virtue of his authority, an authority
given when the confession was signed. That may have been
years before, or, if not, it may have been when the debtor was

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHmns, J., Tn.

CXmIF JUSTICE, BxEwEn and PEcmnA?,,

JJ., dissenting.

perfectly solvent. But no consent is given when the entry is
made, where the confession becomes an actual judgment, and
when the preference, if it be a preference, is obtained. The
debtor has nothing to do with the entry. As to that he is entirely passive. Ordinarily he knows nothing of it, and he
could not prevent it if he would. It is impossible, therefore, to
maintain that such a judgment is obtained by him when his
confession is placed on record. Such an assertion, if made,
must rest on a mere fiction. And so it has been decided by
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. ,Sleek v. Turner'sAssignee,
Legal Intelligence, Sept. 25,1891.
"More than this, as we have seen, in order to make a judgment and execution against an insolvent debtor a preference
fraudulent under the law, the debtor must have procured them
with a view or intent to give a preference, and that intent must
have existed when the judgment was entered. But how can
a debtor be said to intend a wrongful preference at the time a
judgment is obtained against him when he knows nothing of
the judgment? That years before he may have contemplated
the possibility that thereafter a judgment might be obtained
against him; that long before he may have given a warrant of
attorney to confess a judgment, or by a written confession, as
in this case, have put it in the power of his creditor to cause a
judgment to be entered against him without his knowledge or
subsequent assent, is wholly impertinent to the inquiry whether
he had in view or intended an unlawful preference at a later
time, at the time when the creditor sees fit to cause the judgment to be entered. For, we repeat, it is a fraudulent intent
existing in the mind of the debtor at this later time which the
act of Congress has in view. The preference must be accompanied by a fraudulent intent, and it is that intent that taints
the transaction. Without it the judgment and execution are
not void ....
"It has been suggested, in opposition to the view we have
taken, that if a creditor may hold a confession of judgment by
his debtor, or a warrant of attorney to confess a judgment,
without causing it to be entered of record until the insolvency
of the debtor appears, the debtor may thereby be able to mainVOL. OLXXXfIi-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
SHi.AS, J., TH

CIEF JusTicE, BREWER and Pc

KHAM, JJ., dissenting.

tain a false credit. If this be admitted, it is not perceived that
it has any legitimate bearing upon the question before us. The
bankrupt act was not aimed against false credits. It did not
prohibit holding judgment bonds and notes without entering
judgments thereon until the debtors became embarrassed. Such
securities are held in some of the States, amounting to millions
upon millions. The bankrupt act had a very different purpose.
It was to secure equality of distribution of that which insolvents
have when proceedings in bankruptcy are commenced and of
that which they have collusively with some of their creditors
attempted to withdraw from ratable distribution with intent to
prefer some creditors over others."
Similar views prevailed in Nfational Bank v. Warren, 96 U. S.
539, where it was held that the mere non-resistance of a debtor
to judicial proceedings in which a judgment was rendered against
him, when the debt was due and there was no valid defence to
it, it is not the suffering and giving a preference under the bankrupt act, and that the judgment is not avoided by the facts that
he does not file a petition in bankruptcy, and that his insolvency
was known to the creditor.
As, then, the power of attorney given by Nelson to Mrs. Johnstone was a valid security, customary under the law of Wisconsin, as it was given long before the passage of the Bankrupt
Act of 1898, and, therefore, necessarily without regard to the
provisions of that act and without any intention to prevent or
defeat their operation, and as the entry of the judgment and
the levy of the execution are conceded to have been without
the knowledge or consent of Nelson, it is undeniable that, under
the provisions of the Bankrupt Act of 1867, and within the principles laid down in Buckingtam v. McLeean, Wilson v. City
Bank, Clark v. Iselin, and PationalBank v. Warren, Nelson
was under no obligation, legal or moral, to bring upon himself the
ruin necessarily occasioned by a decree of bankruptcy, by fling
a voluntary petition, and that the questions certified to us by
the Circuit Court of Appeals should be answered in the negative.
But it is claimed that, having regard to the phraseology of
the act of 1898, and although the warrant to confess judgment

WILSON v. NELSON.
Snm A.a, J., THE CmE-P JUSTICE, BREwEB

and PECKAM, JJ., dissenting.

was given by the debtor before the passage of that act, yet being irrevocable and continuing in force, the debtor thereby,
without any further act of his, suffered or permitted a judgment
to be entered against him, within four months before the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy, and that he confessed that he
was hopelessly insolvent, and consented to the preference that
he failed to vacate, by failing to file a voluntary petition.
Such a contention, in view of the various decisions of this
court and hereinbefore cited, could not have been heretofore
maintained, and it is, therefore, imperative that those who now
urge it should be able to point to some clear and unmistakable
declaration in the existing statute. So important a change in
the policy of the bankrupt law must be manifested by explicit
language, and cannot be safely and with due regard to sound
principles of interpretation, made to depend upon conjecture
and inference based upon a mere difference in phraseology between the present and prior acts of bankruptcy. In other
words, the question before us must be decided by a consideration of the language actually used in the act of 1898, interpreted
in the light of the previous decisions of this court.
We are concerned, in the present case, with section 3 of the
act of 1898, which deals with and describes acts of bankruptcy.
The section is headed "Acts of Bankruptcy," and then sets
forth what are deemed to be acts of bankruptcy, as follows:
"Acts of bankruptcy by a person shall consist of his having
(1) conveyed, transferred, concealed or removed, or permitted
to be concealed or removed, any part of his property with intent to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors, or any of them;
or (2), transferred, while insolvent, any portion of his property
to one or more of his creditors with intent to prefer such creditors over his other creditors; or (3), suffered or permitted,
while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference through legal proceedings and not having, at least five days before a sale
or final disposition of any property affected by such preference,
vacated or discharged such preference; or (4), made a general
assignment in further benefit of his creditors; or (5), admitted
in writing his inability to pay his debts and his willingness to
be adjudged a bankrupt on that ground."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
SHIRAS, J., THE CHIEF JUSTICE, BREWER and PEOKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

It is obvious that Congress here had in view voluntary acts
of the debtor-" acs of bankruptcy by a person." Concededly
clauses 1, 2, 4 and 5 require an affirmative and voluntary act.
It would naturally be presumed that the same quality of act
would be required by clause 3. The section consists of a single
sentence, in which the several clauses all depend upon the leading phrase, "acts of bankruptcy shall consist of having done
the several things enumerated in the dependent clauses." An
act is defined in the Century Dictionary as "an exertion of
energy or force, mental or physical; anything that is done or
performed; a doing or deed; an operation or performance."
And in the same work "an act of bankruptcy" is defined to be
"an act the commission of which by a debtor renders him liable
to be adjudged a bankrupt." In Anderson's Law Dictionary
the word "act" is defined to be "a thing done or performed;
the exercise of power; an effect produced by power exerted;"
and it is said, "' Act' and ' intention' may mean the same as
'act,' alone, for act implies intention, as in the expression ' death
by his own act or intention.'"
Black's Law Dictionary describes "an act" as follows: "In
a more technical sense, it means something done voluntarily

by a person, and of such a nature that certain legal consequences
attach to it. Thus a grantor acknowledges a conveyance to
be his act and deed, the terms being synonymous."
Independently of dictionary definitions, it may be safely said
that, in common usage and understanding, the word "act" signifies something done voluntarily, or, in other words, the result
of an exercise of the will.
In view, then, of the plain meaning of the language of the
clause and of its association, in the section, with other acts
which require affirmative and voluntary proceedings on the
part of the debtor, it would seem to be clear that mere failure
by a debtor, even if insolvent, to file a voluntary petition in
bankruptcy, is not, in itself, under the facts conceded to exist
in this case, an "act of bankruptcy."
Indeed, it seems quite clear that if section 3 of the act of
1898 had been the first enactment by Congress on the subject,
no one would ever have suggested the contrary view. The

WILSON v. NELSON.
SHIAS,

J., THE CmEF JUSTICE, BREWER and PECRHAm, JJ., dissenting.

contention is mainly, if not wholly, founded on the omission
of several words used in the previous statutes, or rather in the
substitution of different words in section 3 for those used in
the corresponding sections of the earlier laws. Those changes
may be made best to appear by presenting them in parallel
columns:
ACT OF MARon 2,

1867, a. 116,

14 STAT. 517.

SEc. 39. That any person...

who being bankrupt or insolvent, or in contemplation of
bankruptcy or insolvency, shall
. . . prooure or sufer his property to be taken on legal process, with intent to give a pref-

erence to one or more of his
creditors, . . . or with the in-

tent by such disposition of his
property to defeat or delay the
operation of this act, shall be
deemed to have committed an
act of bankruptcy.
Sc. 35. That if any person,

AcT

OF JULY 1, 1898,
30 STAT. 544.

c. 541,

SEC. 3. Acts of bankruptcy
by a person shall consist of his
having . . . sufered or permitted, while insolvent, any
creditor to obtain apreference
through legal proceedings, and
not having, at least five days
before a sale or final disposition of any property affected
by such preference, vacated or
discharged such preference.
SEC. 60. A person shall be
deemed to have given a preference, if, being insolvent, he
hasprocuredor suffered a judgment to be entered against himself, in favor of any person, or
made a transfer of any of his
property, and the effect of the
enforcement of such judgment
or transfer will be to enable
any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his
debt than any other of such
creditors of the same class.

being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, within
four months before the filing
of the petition by or against
him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor or person having a claim against him,
or who is under any liability
for him, procures any part of
his property to be attached, seSEC. 61. ... . A lien created
questered or seized on execuor obtained in, or pursuant
by,
tion, or makes any payment,
suit or proceeding at
to,
any
pledge, assignment, transfer, or
equity, including an
or
in
law,
conveyance of any part of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
SHIRAS, J., THE CHIEF JUsTIcE, BREWER and PEOKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

property, either directly or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, the person receiving
such payment, pledge, assignment or conveyance, or to be
benefited thereby, or by such
attachment, payment, pledge,
assignment or conveyance, having reasonable cause to believe
such person is insolvent, and
that such attachment, payment, pledge, assignment or
conveyance is made in fraud
of the provisions of this act, the
same shall be void.
SEc. 29. . . . No discharge
shall be granted if the bankrupt . . . within four months

before the commencement of
such proceedings, hasprocured
his lands, goods, money or
chattels to be attached, sequestered or seized on an execution.

attachment on mesne process,
or a judgment by confession,
which was begun against a
person within four weeks before the filing of the petition
in bankruptcy, by or against
such person, shall be dissolved
by the adjudication of such
person to be a bankrupt, if it
appears that said lien was obtainedandpermitted while the
defendant was insolvent, and
that its existence and enforcement will work a preference,
or the party or parties to be
benefited thereby had reasonable cause to believe the defendant was insolvent, and in
contemplation of bankruptcy,
or that such lien was sought
and permitted infraud of the
provision of this act.
That all levies, judgments,
attachments or other liens obtained through legal proceedings against a person who is insolvent, at any time within
four months prior to the filing
of a petition in bankruptcy
against him, shall be deemed
null and void, in case he is adjudged a bankrupt.

It having been repeatedly ruled, in the cases cited, that,
under these provisions of the act of 1867, no person shall be
deemed guilty of an act of bankruptcy except by reason of
some affirmative and intentional act intended to defeat the purposes of the act, and that failing to file a voluntary petition in

WILSON v. NELSON.
SflIAS, J., THE CHIEF JUSTICE, PECKHE[m and BREWER, JJ., dissenting.

bankruptcy where a creditor is pursuing, in a state court, a lawful remedy on a lawful security given and received before the act
of bankruptcy was passed, and without any knowledge or consent by the debtor to such suit or proceeding, is not an act of
bankruptcy, it is now contended that a different conclusion
must be reached under the provisions of the act of 1898.
Examination and comparison of the above contrasted provisions will show, as I think, that no change was made by the
latter enactment in the vital and decisive purpose that no person shall be visited with the penalty of involuntary bankruptcy
unless he has brought himself within the denunciation of the
law by some intentional and voluntary act, and that, this being
so, the decisions under the previous act, that merely failing to
file a voluntary petition is not such voluntary and intentional
act in fraud of the statute, are applicable and decisive of the
present case.
Arguments based on supposed differences between permit
and sufer and procure are too uncertain on which to find that
a great and important change in the theory of the bankrupt
law was intended by Congress. Such an intention would have
been directly and clearly expressed, and not left to uncertain
inferences. That such inferences are uncertain plainly appears
by the opposite conclusions reached, in respect to the meaning of the clauses in question, by the learned judges of the
District and Circuit Courts. See In re .f!oyer, 93 Fed. Rep. 188;
In re Thomas, 103 Fed. Rep. 272; In re NSelson, 98 Fed. Rep.
76; -Duncan v. Landis,Cir. Ct. of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
The case of Pirie v. Chicago Title & Trust Company, 182
U. S. 438, the most recent decision of this court under the act
of 1898, arose under another clause of the act, and is not directly applicable to the question we have here considered, but,
so far as it has any bearing, sustains the views herein expressed.
The question there was under sec. 60, and it was held that
where a payment or transfer was made by an insolvent debtor,
within four months prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy to a creditor who did not have cause to believe that an
unlawful preference was intended, the creditor may keep the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

payment or transfer, even though the amount of such payment
or transfer was thereby withdrawn from the administration of
the bankrupt court and satisfaction in full was received by the
creditor, but that if such payment was only a partial discharge
of his debt, the creditor cannot prove, under the distribution
in bankruptcy, for the balance of his debt, unless he first surrenders to the trustee the amount of the partial payment.
The conclusion warranted by the words of the statute, interpreted in this light of our previous decisions, is that the questions certified to us by the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
answered in the negative.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
PEoH&m concurred in

MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE

this dissent.

NATIONAL FOUNDRY AND PIPE WORKS v. OCONTO
WATER SUPPLY CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 33. Argued and submitted MIarch 22, 1901.-Decided January

6, 1902.

The rights asserted by the claimants are embra'ced in three propositions,
stated in the opinion of the court. The first of these propositions does
not involve a Federal question, and is not reviewed in the opinion of the
court. The second and third are as follows: "2. A claim that in virtue
of the sale made in the mechanics' lien suit after the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the creditors' suit and the final entry and execution of the mandate, the Pipe Works became the owner of the Water
Works plant, entitled to the possession of the same, with a right, however, in the defendant, as a junior lien holder, to redeem by paying the
indebtedness due the Pipe Works; and, 3. An assertion that if the Pipe
Works had not become the owner of the Water Works plant in virtue of
the sale made as stated in the opinion of the court, that corporation, in
any event, in virtue of its asserted mechanics' lien, had been vested with
a paramount right as against the Water Supply Company, which it was
the duty of a court of equity to enforce by compelling payment by the
defendant," present Federal questions, which it is the duty of this court
to determine.

