WcKINLEY MINING CO. v. ALASKA MINING CO. 563
Statement of the Case.

McKINLEY CREEK MINING 00. v. ALASKA UNITED

MINING CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 37. Argued April 15, 16, 1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.
There is no prejudicial error in the ruling of the court below on the admission of testimony.
Assignments of error cannot be based upon instructions given or refused
in an equity suit.
The locations are valid so far as they depend upon the discovery of gold.
The notices as set forth in the opinion of the court constituted a sufficient
location.
Grantees of public land take by purchase.
In Manuel v. Wolff, 152 U. S. 505, it was decided that a location by an
alien was voidable, not void, and was free from attack by any one except
the Government.

Tnis is a bill in equity brought by the appellee company,
who was plaintiff below, to establish title to two placer mining
claims, against a like claim of appellant company to the same
gTound.
The bill alleged that "Peter Hall, William A. Chisholm,
James Hanson, John Dalton and Dan. Sutherland, partners
under the firm name and style of the Alaska United Mining
Company, bring this their bill of complaint against C. G. Lewis,
Bert Woodin, Edwin Hackley, Alex. McConaghy, Carl A. West,
W. S. Hawes, Chas. P. Leitch, and C. P. Cahoon, partners
under the firm name of the McKinley Creek Mining Company,
and show to the court that the said parties, both plaintiffs and
defendants, are citizens of the United States and residents of
the District of Alaska."
The bill also alleged ownership of the claims by reason of
location, exploration and discovery of precious metals, and the
compliance with the local rules and regulations of the mining
district. Also possession of the claims and the erection of val-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

uable improvements thereon, and forcible entry upon that possession by defendants (appellants) with an attempt and avowed
purpose to drive plaintiffs (appellees) therefrom, and unless restrained they would proceed to the execution of said threats.
An injunction was prayed for.
The defendants admitted their citizenship, but denied the
citizenship of plaintiffs on the ground that the defendants had
not sufficient knowledge to form a belief thereto, and traversed in like manner or absolutely the other allegations of the
bill, and alleged title by reason of prior discovery by members
of the company. The answer also alleged prior possession by
members of the company from which they were dispossessed
by the plaintiff, and claimed that as to the controversies thus
arising "defendants are under the law and practice of this
court entitled to a jury trial for the trial of the title to said
claims and each of them, and to that end and purpose have
commenced in this honorable court a suit in ejectment for the
trial and determination of the title to said property in an action
at law and according to the usage and practice of this court,
and until the trial and determination of such trial at law by
this honorable court the defendants are entitled to a restraining
order against said plaintiff company and its individual members restraining them and each of them from the commission
of the wrongful acts herein complained of."
A temporary injunction was prayed against plaintiffs (appellees).
There was a reply filed to the new matter of the answer and
to the cross complaint.
A jury was impanelled to try the case on motion of plaintiffs,
no objection being made by defendants, and after hearing the
evidence and receiving instructions from the court the jury
rendered a verdict for plaintiffs, as follows: "We, the jury in
the above-entitled and numbered cause, find for the plaintiffs,
Peter Hall, Wim. A. Chisholm, Dan. Sutherland, James Hanson,
and John Dalton, partners under the firm name and style of
the Alaska United Mining Co., the claims in controversy."
The defendants in due time moved for judgment, notwithstanding the verdict, upon the ground that on the evidence the

McKINLEY MINING CO. v. ALASKA MINING CO. 565
Statement of the Case.

defendants were entitled "to a judgment in their favor for the
possession of the mines and property in controversy." The
motion was denied.
Subsequently defendants moved for a new trial (1) upon the
testimony in the cause, the rulings therein and exceptions taken,
and upon the pleadings and proceedings in cause No. 967;
(2) the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict;
(3) error in refusing to give certain instructions requested by
defendants (appellants).
The motion was denied and the following judgment was entered:
"This cause came on to be heard at this term upon the bill,
the answer and cross bill of defendants and the replication
thereto of plaintiffs and the proofs in the case and upon the request of defendants, duly made by their counsel, Messrs. Winn
& Weldon, the issues arising upon said pleadings and proofs
were submitted to a jury of good and lawful men, duly selected,
impanelled and sworn, to wit, J. Montgomery Davis and eleven
others, who, having heard the said proofs adduced in the case
and having been instructed by the court as to the law, and having heard the argument of counsel, retired in charge of the
bailiff to consider of their verdict and after due deliberation
had returned into open court the following verdict, to wit:
"We, the jury in the above-entitled and numbered cause,
find for the plaintiffs, Peter Hall, William A. Chisholm, Dan.
Sutherland, Jas. Hanson and John Dalton, partners under the
firm name and style of the Alaska United Mining Company,
the claims in controversy.
"J. MONroAtERrY DAvis, Foreman.
(Signed)
"Which said verdict was by the court received and ordered
recorded, and the finding therein contained upon the issues in
said cause were by the court approved and adopted.
"Now, therefore, upon consideration of the said bill, the answer thereto and the cross complaint of said defendants, the
replication of plaintiffs, and the said proofs, and by reason of
the verdict of the jury thereon, approved and adopted by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

court, it is, upon consideration thereof, ordered, adjudged and
decreed as follows, to wit:
"That the said defendants, C. G. Lewis, Bert Woodin, Edwin
Hackley, Alex. McConaghy, Carl A. West, W. S. Iawes, Charles
P. Leitch and C. P. Cahoon, a mining copartnership under the
name and style of the McKinley Creek Mining Co., have not
nor have any of them any right, estate, title or interest whatever in or to those two certain mining claims, lands and premises described in the said bill of complaint and in the said
answer and cross complaint of defendant and hereinafter more
particularly described; that the title of the plaintiff, The Alaska
United Mining Company, a corporation composed of Peter Hall,
William A. Chisholm, Dan. Sutherland, Jas. Hansen and John
Dalton, thereto is good and valid, and that the said defendants
and each of them be, and they and each of them are hereby, forever enjoined and restrained from asserting any claim whatsoever in or to said mining claims, lands and premises adverse to
said plaintiffs, and that the said plain tiffs be, and they are hereby,
quieted in their possession, use and enjoyment of the same."
A description of the claims followed.
Objection was made to the judgment, and the defendants
claimed that the only judgment which could be entered was
one "restraining the defendants from the acts complained of
in the bill of complaint pending the trial of cause No. 967, -The
Ac]inley Creek Xining Co. v. The Alaska United -MiningCo.,
which is a suit in ejectment now pending in this court and at
issue, the record and files of which are hereby referred to and
made a part of this objection."
From the judgment entered the case is here on appeal.
Ilr. S. X. Stockslager for appellants.
was on his brief.

X'. George C. Heard

.r. L. T. Mlichener for appellees.
r. TV. T. Dudley,
.Yr. J. F. Maloney and Mr. J E. Cobb were on his brief.
Mn. JusTiE MoKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The assignments of error present for review the rulings of

McKINLEY MINING CO. -w. ALASKA MINING CO. 567
Opinion of the Court.

the court upon the admission of testimony, the correctness of
the court's instructions to the jury and the sufficiency of the
evidence to justify the judgment.
We may dispose of the rulings on the admission of testimony
summarily. They are not precisely indicated by counsel in
their brief, and to review them with a detail of the evidence
would unduly extend this opinion. It is enough to say that we
have examined the evidence and considered the rulings, and do
not discover any prejudicial error in the latter. Besides, it is
questionable if such rulings are reviewable in an appellate court.
Wilson v. Riddle, 123 U. S. 608; Huse v. Washlurn 59 Wis.
414; Peabody v. Eendall, 145 Ill. 519.
For an understanding and consideration of the other contentions of appellants it is only necessary to indicate the propositions which the evidence of the parties tended to establish. On
the part of the plaintiffs (appellees) the evidence tended to show
that Dan. Sutherland, James Hanson, William Chisholm and
Jack Dalton, who compose the appellee company, and Peter
Hall and one Hawes and 0. P. Cahoon, were working at Pleasant camp in Alaska for William Chisholm on and prior to October, 1898. Prospecting on the river Porcupine was resolved on
to be done by Hanson, Sutherland and Cahoon, and the following power of attorney was given to Cahoon:
"Know all men by these presents that Peter Hall, William
Chisholm, William S. Hawes, of Pleasant camp, British Columbia, have made, constituted and appointed, and by these presents do make, constitute and appoint, C. P. Cahoon, of Pleasant
camp, British Columbia, our true and lawful attorney, for us
and in our names, place and stead to locate a mining claim in
the Territory of Alaska.
"In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
seal this 4th day of Oct., A. D. 1898.
"PETER HALL.

" WM. A.. OISHoLM.

[SEAL.]
[siAL.]

[SEAL.]
"WM. S. HAwEs.
"Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of"DAN. SUTHEELAND.
" 1. HANSONV."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Provisions were furnished the party, and they started out on
the 4th of October, 1898, and met on the creek (subsequently
given the name of McKinley) certain members of the appellant
company. Gold was discovered, and Cahoon wrote notices of
location for Chisholm and Hall upon a snag or stump in the
creek, making their claims contiguous, and afterward reported
that he had done so, saying that he had staked Chisholm first
and Hall next. Chisholm and Hall went to the claims about
the 20th of October, and cut trails to them, and did other work
upon them; and at that time copied the notices of location and
had them recorded. The notices with their endorsements were
introduced in evidence.
The testimony was given by several witnesses and in great
detail, and it was opposed at about all points by testimony of
several witnesses, including Cahoon; and as to who first discovered gold there was a decided conflict whether Sutherland
did, who is one of the appellee company, or whether Hackley
did, under a location by whom the appellant company claims.
Also a conflict as to whether Hackley protested when Cahoon
wrote the notices of location for Chisholm and Hall, and
whether Cahoon promised to take them down and authorized
Hackley to do so, and upon his declining authorized Lewis, one
of the appellant company, to take them down and relocate
Chisholm and Hall further up the creek, and whether Lewis
did so.
1. It will be observed that the main controversy of fact between the parties was as to who made the first discovery of
gold-Hackley or Sutherland. On this testimony appellants
base three contentions, to which they claim, the instructions
asked by them at the trial court were addressed:
(1) That the discovery of mineral is a precedent condition to
the making of a valid location, and that Hackley was the first
to discover gold.
(2) That the locations relied on by appellees were invalid
because they were not "distinctly marked on the ground, or
otherwise designated as required by law."
(3) That the citizenship of Chishohn and Hall was put at
issue by the pleadings, and no evidence was offered to establish

McKINLEY MINING CO. v. ALASKA MINING CO. 569
Opinion of the Court.

it, but on the contrary the power of attorney under which
Cahoon acted represents them to be citizens of British Columbia.
Without now questioning the soundness of either of these
contentions, it is enough to say that the assignments of error
based upon the refusal of instructions cannot be entertained.
This is undoubtedly a suit in equity, and if it may be regarded
as entertained under the general powers conferred by the act
of May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24, error cannot be predicated upon
the giving or the refusing of instructions. The verdict was
but advisory to the court, to be adopted or disregarded at the
court's discretion. This we regarded as indisputable, but in
order that. counsel might be heard upon the effect of the Oregon Code, if regarded as applicable to Alaska, we requested
briefs of counsel "as to what errors, in respect of giving or refusing instructions or other rulings on trial by a jury in a cause
of this character, are open for consideration on appeal from the
District Court of Alaska."
In response to that request, counsel for appellant urge that
by section 7 of the act of May 11, 1884, supra, the final judgments of a District Court of Alaska are reviewable by this court
"as in other cases," and that the terms, other cases, "necessarily refer to the procedure for review provided by sections
691 and 692, Revised Statutes, governing District and Circuit
Courts having like jurisdiction." But the procedure there prescribed is for the purpose of reviewing error, and error, as we
have already said, cannot be based on instructions given or
refused in an equity case. Nor is the rule different in the State
of Oregon. De Lashmutt v. Eversan, 7 Oregon, 212; Swegle
v. Wells, 7 Oregon, 222.
2. There was no finding of facts by the court, and, assuming
that we may look into the evidence, we find it conflicting
as to who first discovered gold, Hackley or Sutherland. The
court below evidently determined that Sutherland did, and,
having no test of the credibility of the witnesses, we cannot
pronounce that determination unsound. Sutherland seems to
At any
have been acting with and cohperating with Cahoon.
rate, Sutherland is not contesting the locations made by Cahoon

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

for Chisholm and Hall, but on the contrary asserts their validity
and claims title under them. The locations, therefore, are valid
so far as they depend upon the discovery of gold.
The second contention is that they are invalid because they
were not "distinctly marked on the ground." The appellants
base this contention on Cahoon's testimony. His testimony is
that he wrote the notices of locations upon a stump or snag in
the creek, and they were as follows: "I, the undersigned; claim
1500 feet running down this creek and 300 feet on each side."
But the notices produced by other witnesses, and which were
testified to be copies, as near as could be made out, of those on
the stump, were respectively as follows:
"Notice is hereby given that I, the undersigned, have this 6th
day of October, 1898, located a placer mining claim 1500 feet
running with the creek and 300 feet on each side from center
of creek known as McKinley Creek, in Porcupine mining district, running into Porcupine River. This claim is the east extension of W. A. Chisholm claim on about 1800 feet from the
first falls above the Porcupine River, in the district of Alaska.
" PETER HALL, .ocator.

"Witness: J. HAwsoz.
"ID. SUT.HERLAD.
"Notice is hereby given that I, the undersigned, have, this
sixth day of Oct. 1898, located a placer mining claim 1500 ft.
along creek bottom and 300 ft. from center of creek each way
on creek known as McKinley, in Porcupine mining district,
described as follows: West extension of Peter Hall's claim and
about 300 feet above first falls on said creek, in the district of
Alaska.
"Wm. A. CmsToLm, Locator.

"Witnesses: D.

SUTHERLAND.

" JAMES HANSON."

These notices constituted a sufficient location; the creek was
identified and between it and the stump there was a definite
relation which, combined with the measurements, enabled the
boundaries of the claim to be readily traced. Hawes v. Yictoria
Caper .Xining Company, 160 U. S. 303.

McKINLEY MINING CO. v. ALASKA MINING CO. 571
Opinion of the Court.

3. Conceding, appellants say, a proper discovery and a proper
description of the location, nevertheless as the citizenship of the
locators was put in issue, it was necessary to be proved to justify
a judgment for the appellees because under section 2319, Rev.
Stat., the public lands of the United States are only open to
exploration, occupation and purchase by citizens of the United
States, and those who have declared their intention to become
such.
In .fanuel v. Wuyf, 152 U. S. 505, this court sustained the
validity of a conveyance of a mining location to an alien, reversing a decision of the Supreme Court of Montana to the contrary. The decision was based upon the difference between a
title by purchase and title by descent, and the doctrine expressed
that an alien can take title by purchase and can only be divested of it by office found. The case of Governeur v. Robertson, 11 Wheat. 332, was cited and approved, and the remarks
of Mr. Justice Johnson in that case become apposite:
"That an alien can take by deed, and can hold until office
found, must now be regarded as a positive rule of law, so well
established that the reason of the rule is little more than a subject for the antiquary. It no doubt owes its present authority,
if not its origin, to a regard to the peace of society and a desire
to protect the individual from arbitrary aggression. Hence it
is usually said, that it has regard to the solemnity of the livery
of seisin, which ought not to be divested without some corresponding solemnity. But there is one reason assigned by a very
judicious compiler, which, from its good sense and applicability
to the nature of our government, makes it proper to introduce
it here. I copy it from Bacon, not having had leisure to examine the authority which he cites for it: ' Every person,' says
he, 'is supposed a natural born subject that is a resident in the
kingdom and that owes a local allegiance to the idug, till the
contrary be found by office.' This reason, it will be perceived,
applies with double force to the resident who has acquired of
the sovereign himself, whether by purchase or by favor, a grant
of freehold."
That grantees of the public land take by purchase this court,
left no doubt. It was said that when a
in MAanuel v. WTu,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

location is perfected it has the effect of a grant by the United
States of the right of present and exclusive possession. -Forbes
v. Grady, 94 U. S. 762; Belk v. Afeagher, 104 U. S. 279;
Gwillim v. Donnellan, 115 U. S. 45; N oyes v. .Afantel, 127
U. S. 348.
The appellants, however, deny the application of .Manuel v.
IWulff, and contend that this suit having been brought under
section 500 of the Oregon Code, in order to maintain the suit
the appellees must show a right to the exclusive possession of
the ground in dispute. This is in effect to say that while the
validity of the location may not be disputed by appellants,
the right to the possession, which is but an incident of the
location, may be. We do not concur in this view. The meaning of Xianuel v. Vuy,, is that the location by an alien and
all the rights following from such location are voidable, not
void, and are free from attack by any one except the government.
It is not necessary to notice other points made by appellants
and, discovering no error in the record,
J'udgment is affirmed.

MAESE v. HERMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 226. Argued November 6, 7, 1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.

The sole authority to the General Land Office to issue the patent for the
land in dispute in this case was the act of March 3, 1869, 15 Stat. 342;
the patent was issued under that authority, and it does not admit of controversy that it must issue to the confirmee of Congress, viz.: the town
of Las Vegas.
This court cannot assume that Congress approved the report of the Surveyor General unadvisedly, used the name of the town of Las Vegas unadvisedly, or intended primarily some other confirmee.
The town and its inhabitants having been recognized by Congress as having
rights, and such rights having been ordered to be authenticated by a patent of the United States, it is the duty of the Land Office to issue that
patent, to give the town and its inhabitants the benefit of that authentication, and to remit all controversies about it to other tribunals.

