OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

risdiction; yet it is the whole power that the court is allowed.
to exercise under this act of Congress." See also Hayburn's
Case, 2 Dall. 409; United States v. F erreira,13 How. 40, 46;
In

re Sanborn, 1-48 U.

S. 222, and Interstate Commerce Com-

mission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 483, 486.
It results that:
As no judgment now rendered by this court would have the
sanction that attends the exercise of judicial power, in its
legal or constitutionalsense, the present appeal must be dis-

missed for want of jurisdictionand without any determina-

tion of the rights oj the parties. It is so ordered.

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND RAILROAD COMPANY v.
HEWES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 5. Argued October 15, 16, 1901.-Decided November 18, 1901.
Although the certificate of the chief justice of a state supreme court that
a Federal question was raised is insufficient to give this court jurisdiction,
where such question does not appear in the record, it may be resorted to,
in the absence of an opinion, to show that a Federal question, which is
otherwise raised in the record, was actually passed upon by the court.
A charter of a railroad company incorporated by an act of the legislature
of Mississippi, passed in 1882, contained an exemption from all taxation
for twenty years. The state constitution adopted in 1869 provided that
the property of all corporations for pecuniary profit, should be subject to
taxation, the same as that of individuals, and that taxation should be
equal and uniform throughout the State. Prior to the incorporation of
the railroad company, the supreme court of the State had construed this
provision of the constitution as authorizing exemptions from taxation,
but had declared that such exemptions were repealable. Held, That this
court was bound by this construction of the constitution, and, therefore,
that the railroad company could not claim an irrepealable exemption in
its charter. Held, also, That the exemption being repealable, the question whether it had in fact been repealed was a local and not a Federal
question.
A ruling of a state supreme court that a repealable exemption has been in

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND R'D CO. v. HEWES.
Statement of the Case.
fact repealed by a subsequent statute, is one which turns upon the construction of a state law, and is not reviewable here, although if the exemption were irrepealable and thus constituted a contract, it would be
the duty of this court to decide for itself whether the subsequent act did
repeal it or impair its obligation.
A privilege tax upon a railroad corporation is a tax upon property.

THIs was a bill in equity filed in the court of chancery of
Harrison County, Mississippi, by the railroad company, against
the tax collector of that county to enjoin the collection of certain property and privilege taxes assessed against the railroad
company for the fiscal year 1896.
The bill averred in substance the incorporation of the railroad company by an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi, approved February 23, 1882, c. 542, p. 849, the eighteenth section of which act declared: "That said company, its
stock, its railroads and appurtenances and all its property in
this State, necessary or incident to the full exercise of all powers herein granted, shall be exempt from taxation for a term
of twenty years from the passage of this act;" that immediately thereafter the corporation entered upon the construction
of its road, and at the time of the filing of the bill had about
seventy-five miles in operation ; that, notwithstanding this charter exemption, the State Railroad Commission has returned its
property for taxation, and that defendant has demanded not
only a privilege tax, but a property tax levied for state and
county purposes, and threatens seizure of its property. Wherefore an injunction was prayed.
To this bill, defendant interposed a demurrer for want of
equity, and because the exemption was a mere bounty, repealable at the pleasure of the legislature, and void of any element
of contract. The demurrer was sustained, and leave granted
the plaintiff to amend its bill. Thereupon it filed an amendment alleging that the exemption in the charter constituted a
contract between the plaintiff and the State; that the railroad
was constructed upon the faith of such contract, and that it was
not within the power of the State to repeal the exemption, and
invoking in that connection the contract clause of the Constitution. Defendant again demurred. The demurrer was sustained,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and an appeal granted to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the decree of the court below. Whereupon plaintiff
sued out a writ of error from this court, which defendant moved
to dismiss.
.Y. Eaton J. Bowers and Xr. Edward Mayes for plaintiffs in
error.
A . B. 0. Beckett for defendant in error. .r.
Critz was on his brief.
MR.

Frank A.

JUsTIce, BRowN, after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
1. The motion to dismiss must be overruled. Counsel for
the railroad company appear to have invoked the contract
clause of the Constitution upon the original argument; but
whether this be so or not, the bill was subsequently amended
under leave of the court, by averring that the charter and the
exemption from taxation contained in the eighteenth section
constituted a contract between the plaintiff corporation and the
State of Mississippi that the State would not demand any taxes
upon its capital, property or stock for the term of twenty years
from the enactment of the charter; and that, if said exemption from taxation had been repealed, which the company denied, it was not within the power of the State to repeal such
exemption for the reason that the same constituted a contract
upon which the company had acted, and upon the faith of which
it had constructed the road; and that such repeal was a violation of the contract clause of the Constitution The Federal
question was properly raised, and there is at least sufficient
color for it to sustain our jurisdiction. No opinion was delivered by the Supreme Court, but the Chief Justice certifies that
the validity of the state legislation subsequent to the charter
of 1882 was drawn in question upon the ground of its impairment of the contract contained in such charter, and that the
decision was in favor of the validity of such legislation. While
such a certificate is insufficient to give us jurisdiction, where

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND R'D CO. v. HEWES.
Opinion of the Court.

such jurisdiction does not appear in the record, it may be resorted to, inthe absence of an opinion, to show that a Federal
question which was otherwise raised in the record, was actually passed upon by the court. Armstrong v. Athens County
Treasurer, 16 Pet. 281; Yazoo & _isisippi Railroad v.
Adams, 180 U. S. 41, 48; Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177;
Parmelee v. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36; Gross v. U. S. Jortgage
Co., 108 U. S. 4'71.
2. The bill set out, and, until the argument in this court, the
plaintiff company relied solely upon, a charter granted February 23, 1882, by the legislature of Mississippi to incorporate
the Gulf and Ship Island Railroad Company, the eighteenth
section of which declared: "That in order to encourage the investment of capital in the works which said Company is hereby
authorized to construct and maintain, and to make certain in
advance of such investment, and as an inducement and consideration therefor, the taxes and burdens which this State will
and will not impose thereon, it is hereby declared that said
Company, its stock, its railroad, and appurtenances, and all its
property in the State necessary or incident to the full exercise
of all the powers herein granted, shall be exempt from taxation
for a term of twenty years from the passage of this Act."
To strengthen its position, and to enable the company to
rally to its support an exemption antedating the constitution
of 1869, upon which the defendant relies, the plaintiff calls to
our attention an act passed in 1850 to incorporate the Gulf and
Ship Island Railroad Company, and a further act approved
March 1, 1854, c. 66, amendatory of that act, the eleventh section of which declares "that the property and investments of
the Company connected with this enterprise, within this State,
shall not be subject to taxation until the road shall be in full
operation and completed."
The position of the plaintiff in this connection is that, prior
to the Code of 1857, there was no general law and no constitutional provision in any way restraining the legislature from
granting irrepealable exemptions, and that the charter of 1882
was a mere continuance of the original charter of 1850-1854;
that the construction of the road, authorized by that charter,

OCTOBER TERMJ, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

had never been abandoned, and that so late as 1872 the legislature had adopted a memorial to Congress praying that a land
grant made by Congress in 1858 for the benefit of the Gulf and
Ship Island Railroad Company, and which had lapsed to the
United States by the intervention of the Civil War, might be
revived in favor of that railroad.
But we are of opinion that the charter of 1882 cannot be
considered as a revival or continuation of the charter of 1854,
since the names of the incorporators are entirely different, the
routes of the two railroads are also different, and no reference
is made in the charter of 1882 to the prior charters, although
the names of the two corporations are identical. There is nothing in the act of 1882 to indicate even the existence of a prior
act incorporating a road under the same name. It is true that,
at the same session of the legislature (1882), another memorial
to Congress was adopted by the legislature for a revival of the
grant of public lands made by the United States in 1856 to aid
in the construction of the Gulf and Ship Island Railroad, but
in this very memorial it was stated that "at its present session
our legislature has granted a new act of incorporationwith liberal provisions, thus again attesting the abiding and earnest
interest felt by our people in this important work."
It is also true that on March 13, 1884, the legislature passed
another act to facilitate the construction of the Gulf and Ship
Island Railroad, and for other purposes, c. 612, p. 971, the
eighth section of which declared: "That said Gulf and Ship
Island Railroad Company are hereby subrogated to all the
rights and privileges heretofore granted by the State of Mississippi to the Gulf and Ship Island Railroad Company, and shall
have the right to use and enjoy such field notes, maps and surveys as have been heretofore made in the interest of said road
as were authorized and granted by the State under the acts
approved March 2, 1854, and December 3, 1858." This is an
effort to subrogate the new railroad to the rights and privileges
of the former one, but its language contains an implied admission that, without such subrogation, the rights and privileges
of the former company had lapsed, and that a new act was
necessary to revive them. But if the act be considered as a

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND R'D CO. v. HEWES.
Opinion of the Court.

revival of the rights and privileges which had formerly belonged to the old company, such rights and privileges would
be subordinated to the provisions of the new constitution of
1869, which in the meantime had been adopted. Planters'
Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 193, 198.' In addition to all
this, however, the better opinion is that a subrogation to the
"rights and privileges " of a former corporation does not include an immunity from taxation. Phenix Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 114.
We are unable to see that there is anything in this legislalation to indicate that the plaintiff company stands ina position to escape the application of the constitution of 1869. Indeed, it seems to us entirely clear that the injunction of the
charter of 1850-1854 into this case was a mere afterthought;
and that the charter upon which the plaintiff must rely is that
of 1882, set forth in this bill, and that such charter must be
construed in subordination to the constitution of 1869, which
we now proceed to consider.
3. The only provisions of the constitution pertinent to this
case are the following sections of Article XII:
"SEC. 13. The property of all corporations for pecuniary
profit, shall be subject to taxation, the same as that of individuals."
"S1Ec. 20. Taxation shall be equal and uniform throughout
the State. All property shall be taxed in proportion to its
value, to be ascertained as directed by law."
As it is not altogether clear from the language of these sections whether it was competent for the legislature to grant to a
railroad company an exemption from taxation, it is conceded by
both sides to this controversy that we are bound to look to the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Mffississippi at the time this
charter was granted, for their proper interpretation. -Douglass
v. County of Pike,101 U. S. 677. While the question of contract
or no contract in a particular case is one which must be determined by ourselves, every such alleged contract is presumed to
have been entered into upon the basis, and in contemplation of,
the existing constitution and statutes, and upon the established
construction theretofore put upon them by the highest judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

authority of the State. Taylor v. Ypsilanti, 105 U. S. 60; Wade
v. Travis County, 174 U. S. 499, 509, and cases cited.
We are referred to the case of 3fississippi .Mills v. Cook, 56
Mississippi, 40, decided in 1878, four years prior to this charter,
as settling the proper construction of these sections of the con
stitution. Indeed, counsel stipulate that the stockholders invested their money in reliance upon this adjudication. The
Mississippi Mills were chartered in 1871 for the purpose of manufacturing cotton and woolen fabrics, and in 1872 an act was
passed, of which the Mississippi Mills were subsequently given
the benefit, providing that all taxes upon the property of said
company should be applied to the payment of debts which the
company had incurred in the construction of their factory. In
1877 this act was so far amended as to be substantially repealed;
and in 1878 the company filed a bill in chancery against the tax
collector, setting up the acts of 1872 and 1873 as constituting a
contract with the company, and alleging that the act of 1877
impaired the obligation of such contract, and was in violation
of the Constitution of the United States.
The bill was held not to be maintainable, the court deciding:
(1.) That it was not intended by section 13 of article XII of
the constitution to confer power on the legislature to tax the
property of corporations, because that existed without this section as an inherent legislative power.
(2.) That the property of the corporations mentioned was declared to be subject to taxation, that is, liable to taxation, the
same as that of individuals, but it was not necessarily to be subjected to taxation. Since overruled in Adams v. Yazoo &
fississipi Valley Railroad,77 Mississippi, 194.
(3.) That any legislative act, "whether it be a charter or
other form of law, which says it shall be exempt, and not subject to taxation, is in conflict with the constitution." But that
the legislatire might exempt property of a certain class, whether
the owners were corporations or natural persons, but corporate
property could never be placed beyond the reach of the taxing
power. "It may not be taxed, but it must be ever liable. It
need not be subjected, but it must always be subject, to taxation,

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND R'D CO. v. HEWES.
Opinion of the Court.

the same as that of individuals, for the constitution so declares.
The provision is mandatory as to universal liability to be taxed,
but permissive to the legislature to tax the property of such corporations, or exempt it, as it may see proper, in common with
the property of individuals, which may be taxed or not for the
time being." See also Viclksburg Bank v. T'orrell, 67 Mississippi, 41; Yachez, JTackson & Columbus Railroad Co. v. Lambert, 70 Mississippi, 779.
(4.) That it followed from this that it was competent for the
legislature to modify or repeal the act of 1872, and that the repealing act of 1877 was constitutional, and operated as a repeal
of the exemption. This was reaffirmed inAttala Co. v. Helly,
68 Mississippi, 40; Railroad Co. v. Lambert, 70 Mississippi, 779.
(5.) In a concurring opinion, delivered by the Chief Justice,
he held that if the exemption were granted in the form of a contract in the charter, it was prohibited.
Although the decision of the case was put upon the ground
that the exemption from taxation contained in the acts of 1872
and 1873 was a mere bounty, and subject to repeal by the legislature, the report would seem to indicate the opinion of the
court to have been that no exemption was valid which was contained in the charter of a particular corporation; (a question not
necessarily involved,) but whether this be so or not, it is entirely
clear that the court intended to decide that, under the constitution of 1869, any exemption granted by the legislature was a
mere bounty and subject to repeal.
Under this construction of the constitution it becomes unnecessary to decide whether the exemption contained in the charter of 1882 be void or not, since, as it appears by the certificate
of the Chief Justice, the decision of the court below was put
upon the ground that the subsequent legislation, and particularly the Annotated Code of 1892, which was construed by the
court as repealing the exemption in the charter, was constitutional and valid. Indeed, counsel for the collector, in their
brief, expressly disclaim any reliance upon the position that the
exemption in this case was originally unconstitutional and void,
putting their case expressly upon the ruling of the Supreme
Court that such exemption had been repealed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Holding then, as we do, that the exemption was subject to
repeal, it only remains to consider whether the Code of 1892
did in fact repeal and abrogate it. In this connection the State
relies upon section 3744 of the Annotated Code of 1892, which
declares that "following property, and no other, shall be exempt from taxation, to wit." Here follows a list of some
twenty classes of property, among which, however, railroads
are not included. If an exemption under a special act be repealed by the words "and no other," contained in a general act
declaring what property shall be exempt from taxation, it would
follow that this exemption was repealed by the Code of 1892,
and the principle applied in -Louisville TVater Company v. Clark,

143 U. S. 1, 11, would also be applicable here. The railroad
company, however, insists that its rights are saved by section
eight of the same code, which declares that "private and local
laws not revised and brought into this Annotated Code are
not affected by its adoption, unless it be expressly so provided
herein." There being no such express provision in the code respecting the act of 1882, it is insisted that the exemption contained in that act is saved. The Supreme Court, however, seems
to have held, as it had already done with respect to a similar
section in the Code of 1880, Adams v. Railroad Co., 77 Mississippi, 194, 317, that the exemption was not saved.
We do not find it necessary to pass upon the soundness of
this conclusion, as we are of opinion that the question whether
the ruling of the Supreme Court, that a repealable exemption
has been in fact repealed by a subsequent statute, is one which
turns upon the construction of a state law, and is not reviewable here, although if the exemption were irrepealableand thus
constituted a contract, it would be our duty to decide for ourselves whether the subsequent act had repealed it or impaired
its obligation. The only contract relied upon is one exempting
the property of a particular corporation from taxation for a
certain number of years; a contract which, in the light of the
state constitution and the prior decisions of the state courts,
must be read as if it contained a proviso that the legislature
might in the meantime alter, amend or repeal the act. Hence,
as the legislature is left entirely free to act upon the sub-

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND R'D CO. v. HEWES.
Opinion of the Court.

ject, no subsequent legislation could possibly impair the obligation of the contract, if such exemption can be called a contract at all. If no statute could impair it, it goes without saying that none did impair it. If, then, the decision of the Supreme Court that the legislature had in fact repealed the exemption was right, the railroad company cannot complain, since
the legislature had done no more than it had a right to do. If,
upon the other hand, we should be of opinion that the Supreme
Court was wrong in holding the exemption repealed, such exemption would be abrogated not by the act of 1892, but by an
erroneous construction of that act. Our only authority to review the action of the state courts in this class of cases under Rev.
Stat. sec. 709, arises when the validity of a state statuteis drawn
in question on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and the decision is in favor of its
validity. Now, if the statute, adjudged to be valid, does not
impair the obligation of any contract, it is not repugnant to the
Constitution. It is the fact that the act, as construed by the
Supreme Court, impairs the obligation of a contract that gives
us jurisdiction, and if there be in the act of 1882 no contract
that can be impaired by subsequent legislation, it is of no consequence that the Supreme Court may have given it a wrong
construction. "Before we can be asked to determine whether
a statute has impaired the obligation of a contract, it should appear that there was a legal contract subject to impairment, and
some ground to believe that it has been impaired." -Tew Orleans v. -ew Orleans Waterworks Co., 142 U. S.79, 88. Indeed the whole foundation of our jurisdiction in this class of
cases must rest upon a contract which cannot be legally impaired.
This court has repeatedly held that we cannot revise the judgment of the highest court of a State unless, by its terms, or necessary operation, it gives effect to some provision of a state
constitution or law which, as thus construed, impairs the obligation of a precedent contract. In Railroad Co. v. Book, 4
Wall. 177, 181, this court pronounced it a "fundamental error
that this court can, as an appellate tribunal, reverse the judgment of a state court, because that court may hold a contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to be void, which this court might hold to be valid."

So, too,

in K-nox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379, 383, it was said by
Mr. Justice Miller: "But we are not authorized by the Judiciary Act to review the judgments of the state courts because
their judgments refuse to give effect to valid contracts, or because those judgments, in their effect, impair the obligation of
contracts. If we did, every case decided in a state court could
be brought here, when the party setting up a contract alleged
that the court had taken a different view of its obligation to
that which he held." To the same effect are Lehigh Water Co.
v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388, 392, and Yew Orleans TFaterworksv.
LouisianaSugar Co., 125 U. S.18, 30. In the latter case it is
said by Mr. Justice Gray: "In order to come within the provision of the Constitution of the United States which declares
that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts, not only must the obligation of a contract have been
impaired, but it must have been impaired by a law of the State.
The prohibition is aimed at the legislative power of the State,
and not at the decisions of its courts, or the acts of administrative or executive boards or officers, or the doings of corporations or individuals." See also Central Land Co. v. Laidley,
159 U. S.103, 109.
We are therefore of opinion that we cannot review the action
of the state court in holding this exemption to have been repealed.
4. A single point with regard to the privilege taxes included
in the assessment sought to be enjoined remains to be considered.
By section 18 of the company's charter of 1882 it was declared
"that such Company, its stock, its railroad and appurtenances,
and all its property in this State, necessary or incident to the
full exercise of all the powers herein granted, shall be exempt
from taxation for a term of twenty years from the passage of
this act." This undoubtedly implies an exemption from privilege as well as ad valorem taxes, and such has been the construction given to it by the Supreme Court of Mississippi. Grand
GuWf and Port Gibson Railroadv. -Buck, 53 Mississippi, 24:6.
But, as we have already held, this section must be construed
as subservient to section 13, article XII, of the constitution of

GULF AND SHIP ISLAND R'D CO. v. HEWES.
Opinion of the Court.

1869, providing that "the _property of all corporations for pecuniary profit shall be subject to taxation."
Now, if privilege taxes are taxes upon theyroperty of corporations, an exemption from such taxes was subject to repeal as
much as we have already held an exemption of ad valorem taxes
to be.
Whatever may have been the fluctuations of opinion upon
this subject, and it is not to be denied that there are many cases
in the state courts holding that a privilege tax is not a tax upon
property, the law in this court, so far as concerns railway franchises, must be deemed to have been settled by the case of WRimingtom Railroadv. Reid, 13 Wall. 264, in which an exemption
in the charter of the Wilmington and Raleigh Railway Company of "the property of said company and the shares therein"
from taxation, was decided to extend to a tax upon the franchise and rolling stock. In delivering the opinion of this court,
Mr. Justice Davis observed: "It is insisted, however, that the
tax on the franchise is something entirely distinct from the
property of the corporation, and that the legislature, therefore,
was not inhibited from taxing it. The position is equally unsound with the others taken in this case. Nothing is better settled than that the franchise of a private corporation-which in its
application to a railroad is the privilege of running it and taking fare and freight-is property, and of the most valuable kind,
as it cannot be taken for public use even without compensation.
It is true it is not the same sort of property as the rolling stock,
roadbed and depot grounds, but it is equally with them covered
by the general term ' the property of the company,' and therefore equally within the protection of the charter." To the
same effect are Adams Expjress Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 195, and
leazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 547.
This also appears to be the law in Mississippi. Coulson v.
Harris,43 Mississippi, 728; .Drysdale v. Pradat,45 Mississippi,
445.
In West River Bridge Co. v. -Dix,6 How. 507, 534, the franchise of a bridge company was held to be property subject to
condemnation under the law of eminent domain. See also
.onongahela _Vav. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; S.jring

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

V-alley Vaterworks v. Schottler, 62 California, 110; Iies
v.
-ew H-aven c& Northampton Railroad, 42 Connecticut, 103,
125; Porter v. Rockford &o. B. 1., 76 Illinois, 561, 574; State
v. Anderson, 90 Wisconsin, 550, 561; Richmond & Danville
Railroad v. Brogden, 74 N. 0. 707.
It follows, then, that privilege taxes being taxes upon property are subject to the constitutional limitations of 1869, and
their exemption was equally repealable as that of ad valorem
taxes.
The railroad company also calls attention to section 181 of
the constitution of 1890, by virtue of which "exemptions from
taxation to which corporations are legally entitled at the adoption of this constitution, shall remain in full force and effect
for the time of such exemptions as expressed in their respective
charters, or by general laws, unless sooner repealed by the
legislature."
The words "sooner repealed" in this section
apparently refer to a repeal before the expiration of the exemption under their respective charters, and as the Supreme Court
has held that the exemption in this case was repealed by the
Annotated Code of 1892 the company can gain no additional
advantage by this section. Adams v. Tombigbee .lills, 78 Mississippi, 676.
Inasmuch as the statute in question could not, and in the
opinion of Supreme Court did not, impair the obligation of any
prior contract, its judgment must be
4Afirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE GRAY was not present at the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.

