OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

will be observed from this view that the question in the case is
narrower than appellants conceive it. It is not what rights
they had before confirmation of the grant nor what rights they
may assert under or against the patent, but what Congress has
done and what it has directed the Land Department to do. It
is strictly this and nothing more, and on this only we express
an opinion.
-Decree afJlrmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ZERNECKE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 58. Argued October 25,1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.
Section 3 of the Compiled Laws of Nebraska of 1889, c. 72, providing for
the incorporation of railroad companies, is as follows: "Every railroad company, as aforesaid, shall be liable for all damages inflicted
upon the person of passengers while being transported over its road,
except in cases where the injury done arises from the criminal negligence
of the person injured, or when the injury complained of shall be the
violation of some express rule or regulation of said road actually brought
to his or her notice." Held that the plaintiff in error, being a domestic
corporation of Nebraska, accepted with its incorporation the liability so
imposed by the laws of that State, and cannot now complain of it.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xrf'. T. F. Evans for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

Jlfr. X. A. Low

Xi. Tornas C. iunger for defendant in error. .r.
.X.Stewart and Xrfr. A. E. Harvey were on his brief.
MR. JUsTIcE

John

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the district court of Lancaster

CHICAGO, R. I. &c. R'Y CO. o. ZERNECKE.

583

Opinion of the Court.

County, Nebraska, by the defendant in error as the administratrix of the estate of Ernest H. Zernecke, deceased, against the
plaintiff in error, for damages, under a statute of the State, for
the death of Zernecke, caused by the derailment of the train of
plaintiff in error upon which Zernecke was a passenger.
The plaintiff alleged negligence in the railroad company and
its servants. The answer of the company denied negligence,
and alleged that the derailment was caused by some person or
persons unknown to the company, and not in its employment
or under its control, who willfully, maliciously and feloniously
removed and displaced from the track certain spikes, nuts, anglebars, fishplates, bolts and rails, and otherwise tore up and destroyed the track. The company also alleged care in the maintenance of its track and the management of its trains.
The petition alleged that the plaintiff in error "was a corporation, duly incorporated under the laws of the State of
Nebraska," and the admission of the answer was that defendant in error, "at all times mentioned in said petition, was a
corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the States of Illinois and Iowa, and a domestic corporation of the State of Nebraska."
The case was tried before a jury. The evidence of defendant in error (petitioner) was that at the time Zernecke was killed
he was being transported as a passenger over the railway of
plaintiff in error, and that the train upon which he was riding
was thrown from the track, resulting in his death and the death
of ten other persons. The plaintiff in error then offered witnesses and depositions to sustain the allegations of its answer.
The testimony, upon the objection of defendant in error, was
rejected, and at the close of the evidence, on motion of defendant in error, the court instructed the jury as follows:
"1. The jury are instructed that if you find from the evidence that Ernest H. Zernecke was a passenger, being carried
on the train of the defendant railway company that was derailed and wrecked near Lincoln, Nebraska, on August 9, 1894,
thereby causing the death of said Zernecke, and that plaintiff
is administratrix, and she and her children had a pecuniary interest in his life and suffered loss by his death, then you should
find for the plaintiff."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The jury returned a verdict for defendant in error for $4500,
upon which judgment was entered. The judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, (59 Neb. 689,) and the
case was then brought here.
The assignments of error are based upon the contention that
the action of the district court and the decision of the Supreme
Court in affirming the judgment of the district court were
based upon section 3 of the act providing for the incorporation
of railroad companies, and it is contended that the section contravenes the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, in that said section deprives plaintiff in error of
its property without due process of law. The section is as
follows :
"Every railroad company, as afores~id, shall be liable for all
damages inflicted upon the person of passengers while being
transported over its road, except in cases where the injury done
arises from the criminal negligence of the person injured, or
when the injury complained of shall be the violation of some
express rule or regulation of said road actually brought to his
Compiled Laws of Nebraska, 1889, c. 72,
or her notice."
art. 1, sec. 3, p. 628.
The court, interpreting the statute, said:
"It gives or creates a right of action in favor of the injured
passenger, p. 645; and when it is established that a person is
injured while a passenger of the railroad company, a conclusive
presumption of negligence arises in every case except where it
is disclosed that the injury was one caused by his own criminal
negligence, or by his violation of some rule of the company
brought to his actual notice. . . . In other words, a conclusive presumption of negligence arises when the case does not
fall within the exceptions of the law, and he has his right of
action. . . . Now it is indisputable that, if Zernecke had
been injured merely, and not killed, he would have recovered
against the railway company under said section 3, article 1, of
chapter 72, and that thereunder said injuries would have been
deemed to have been caused by the wrongful acts, neglect or
default of the said railway company in failing to carry such passenger safely. Hence this case falls within the scope of said

CHICAGO, R. I. &c. R'Y CO. v. ZERNECKE.
Opinion of the Court.

chapter 21, and the fact of negligence or defendant's wrongful
acts'or default is established when the evidence discloses the
facts specified in said section 3 of chapter 72."
In other cases the Supreme Court has passed upon the statute, the titles of which cases are inserted in the margin.'
In AXcoGary v. Sioux City & _Paciftc 1. R. Co., 3 Neb. 44
(1873), railroad companies were held not to be insurers of their
passengers. In that case the injury was caused by the upsetting
of the train by a gust of wind. The negligence of the company
consisted in being behind time. If the train had been on time
it would have escaped the tempest. The negligence, it was decided, was too remote as a cause, and the company was held
not liable.
Subsequently, Chicago, Burlington & Quincy -Railroadv.
Landauer,39 Neb. 803, railroad companies were held to be insurers of their passengers. The company escaped liability, however, by reason of the gross negligence of the person injured.
In Omaha & R. V. R. Co. v. Chollette, 33 Neb. 143, the
words of the statute exempting railroad companies from liability, "where the injury done arose from the criminal negligence
of the persons injured," were defined to mean "gross negligence," "such negligence as would amount to a flagrant and
reckless disregard" by the passenger of his own safety, and
"amount to a willful indifference to the injury liable to follow."
This definition was approved in subsequent cases. It was also
approved in the case at bar, and the plaintiff in error, it was in
effect declared, was precluded from any defence but that of
1 Chollette v. Omaha & Republican Valley Railroad Company, 26 Neb.
159; Omaha & Republican Valley Railroad Company v. Ohollette, 33 Neb.
143; Missouri Pacific Railway Company v. Baier, 37 Neb. 235; Union Pacific Railway Company v. Porter,38 Neb. 226; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Company v. Hague, 48 Neb. 97; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Company v. Landauer, 39 Nob. 803; Omaha & Republican Valley
Railway Company v. Chollette, 41 Neb. 578; St. Joseph & Grand Island
Railroad Company v. Hedge, 44 Neb. 448; Fremont, .Elkhorn & Missouri
Valley Railroad Company v. French, 48 Neb. 638; Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Railway Company v. Young, 58 Neb. 678; Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Company v. Wolfe, 86 N. W. Rep. 441, decided March 21,
1901.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

negligence as defined, or that the injury resulted from the violation of some rule of the company by the passenger brought
to his actual notice, and the company, as we have said, was not
permitted to introduce evidence that the derailment of its train
was caused by the felonious act of a third person. The statute,
thus interpreted and enforced, it is asserted, impairs the constitutional rights of plaintiff in error. The specific contention is
that the company is deprived of its defence, and not only declared guilty of negligence and wrongdoing without a hearing,
but, adjudged to suffer without wrongdoing, indeed even for the
crimes of others, which the company could not have foreseen
or have prevented.
Thus described, the statute seems objectionable. Regarded as
extending the rule of liability for injury to persons which the
common law makes for the loss of or injury to things, the
statute seems defensible. And it was upon this ground that
the Supreme Court of the State defended and vindicated the
statute. The court said:
"The legislation is justifiable under the police power of the
State, so it has been held. It was enacted to make railroad
companies insurers of the safe transportation of their passengers
as they were of baggage and freight; and no good reason is
suggested why a railroad company should be released from liability for injuries received by a passenger while being transported over its line, while the corporation must respond for any
damages to his baggage or freight."
Our jurisprudence affords examples of legal liability without
fault, and the deprivation of property without fault being attributable to its owner. The law of deodands was such an example. The personification of the ship in admiralty law is
another. Other examples are afforded in the liability of the
husband for the torts of the wife-the liability of a master for
the acts of his servants.
In Missouri Railway Co. v. _Xackey, 127 U. S. 205, a statute of Kansas abrogating the common law rule exempting a
master from liability to a servant for the negligence of a fellow-servant, was sustained against the contention that such
statute violated the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitu-

CHICAGO, R. I. &c. R'Y CO. v. ZERNECKE.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the United States. And in .Xinneavolis &c. Railway
Co. v. Hlerrick, 127 U. S. 210, a statute of Iowa which extended liability for the " wilful wrongs, whether of commission
or omission," oE the "agents, engineers or other employees"
of railroad companies, was vindicated against the double attack
of being an unjust discrimination against railroad corporations
and the deprivation of property without due process of law.
See also Tullis v. Lake Erie & lVestern Railroad,175 U. S.
348.
It seemed to the able judges who decided Coggs v. Bernard,
that on account of the conditions which then surrounded common carriers public policy required responsibility on their pairt
for all injuries to and losses of goods entrusted to them, except
such injuries and losses which occurred from the acts of God
or public enemies, and many years afterwards Chancellor Kent
praised the decision of cases which declined to relax the rule to
excuse carriers for losses by fire. That rule was not and has
not been extended by the courts to passengers, and Chief Justice Marshall, in speaking for this court in Boyce v. Anderson,
2 Pet. 150, refused to apply the rule to slaves, saying: "The
law applicable to common carriers is one of great rigor.
Though to the extent to which it has been carried, and in the
cases in which it has been applied, we admit its necessity and
its policy, we do not think it ought to be carried further, or applied to new cases. We think it has not been applied to living
men, and that it ought not to be applied to them."
But because courts have not extended the doctrine to carriers
of passengers, it does not follow that a state legislature is precluded from doing so. The common law doctrine was declared
by Chief Justice Holt in Coggs v. Bernard to be "a politic establishment, contrived by the policy of the law, for the safety
of all persons, the necessity of whose affairs obliges them to
trust these sorts of persons, that they may be safe in their ways
of dealing; for else these carriers might have an opportunity
of undoing all persons that bad any dealings with them, by
combining with thieves, etc., and yet doing it in such a clandestine manner as would not be possible to be discovered. And
this is the reason the law is founded upon in that point."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

That reason may not apply to passengers but other reasons
do, which arise from the conditions which exist in and surround
modern railroad transportation, and which may be considered
as strongly justifying a rule of responsibility for injury to passengers which makes sure, as the common law rule does, that
responsibility be not avoided by excuses which do not exist, or
the disproof of which might be impossible.
We might ext end the discussion and illustrate it by other
cases, but however interesting such discussion might be we do
not think it is necessarily demanded by this record. We think
plaintiff in error is precluded from objecting to the rule of liability expressed in section 3. That rule of liability was accepted by plaintiff in error as a part and as a condition of its
charter. "It was incorporated under the laws of the State of
Nebraska," is the allegation of the petitioner. "It is . . . a
domestic corporation of the State of Nebraska," is the allegation of the answer. It was incorporated, therefore, under the
railroad incorporation act of 1867, and the liability which has
been enforced upon it by the decision of the Supreme Court of
the State is the liability declared by section 3 of that act. That
liability, we repeat, plaintiff in error accepted with its incorporation, and cannot now complain of it. TFaters Pierce Oil Co.
v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28. We need not repeat the reasoning
of Waters Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas. The case followed and applied the doctrine of many prior cases.
Judgment afirmed.
MRi

. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision.

