MINDER v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

MINDER v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF BIBB COUNTY, STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 417. Argued December 3,1901.-Decided January 6,1902.

This court cannot interfere with the administration of justice in the State
of Georgia because it is not within the power of the courts of that State
to compel the attendance of witnesses who are beyond the limits of the
State, or because the taking or use of depositions of witnesses so situated
in criminal cases on behalf of defendants is not provided for by statute
and may not be recognized in Georgia.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
iMr'. John R. Cooper for plaintiff in error. Xir . Rerman
Brasch and Mr. .Afarion 1. Harris were on his brief.
.tfr,. J X. Terrell for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

At the November term, 1900, of the superior court of Bibb
County, Georgia, Isadore Minder was tried on an indictment
for murder, convicted, and sentenced to death. A motion for
new trial was made upon the ground, among other things, that
the court erred in refusing to continue the case on account of
the absence of material witnesses residing in Alabama, whose
names were given. The defence was insanity, and the motion
for continuance set forth that the witnesses would testify that
the accused was insane; "that all the powers of the court have
been exhausted to procure the attendance of said witnesses;"
that they had refused to attend; and that the court had no authority under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia
to procure their attendance, or their testimony, and that their
depositions would not be admissible in evidence if obtained.
The motion further stated that if he were tried "without being

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

afforded process by which either to compel the attendance or
to procure the depositions of said witnesses, that defendant, who
is a citizen of the United States and a resident of Georgia, would
be deprived of his life, liberty, and property without due process of law, and would be denied his right and privilege and
immunities as a citizen of the United States in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, and particularly the 1st paragraph of the 14th Amendment thereto; and in violation of
said amendment would be denied the equal protection of the
laws with American citizens of other States of this Union where
the state and Federal process affords the defendant means to
secure the depositions of non-resident witnesses in capital cases,
and the State allows the introduction of such depositions in
evidence in behalf of the defendant in such other States." It
was further stated that "unless the State will consent to the
introduction of depositions from said non-resident witnesses
and will afford him a reasonable opportunity to secure the same,
petitioner will be denied the equal protection of the laws and
will be deprived of his life and liberty without due process of
law." The motion for new trial was overruled by the superior
court, and defendant sentenced, whereupon an appeal was taken
to the Supreme Court which affirmed the judgment. 113
Georgia, 772.
This writ of error was then sued out, and the errors assigned
were in substance that the Supreme Court erred in not reversing the judgment of the court below for error in denying the
motion for continuance, which denial it was contended was a
denial of due process of law and the equal protection of the
laws secured by the Fourteenth Amendment. This point was
made in the Supreme Court and the matter of the ruling on
the motion to continue was disposed of thus:
"The application for a continuance was made upon the ground
of the absence of certain witnesses whose testimony it is claimed
was very material to the defence of insanity set up by the accused. It appeared that these witnesses resided in the State of
Alabama, that the court had caused subpoenas to be issued
directed to these witnesses, that they had been transmitted by
mail to the witnesses, that the subpcenas had been received by

MINDER v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

them, and that they had refused to attend court upon the advice of their counsel in Alabama that there was no law requiring
them to leave their State to attend as witnesses a court of
another State. It distinctly appeared that the witnesses had
refused to attend, and there is nothing in the record to indicate
that there were any reasonable grounds for hoping that they
might be induced to attend at a subsequent term of the court if
the case had been continued. Under such circumstances it does
not seem to us that the court erred in refusing to postpone the
case. In a case of this character, where the life of the accused
is at stake, and the court has at its command no compulsory
process which could be used to enforce the attendance of the
witnesses from beyond its jurisdiction, a promise by the witnesses to attend at a subsequent term of the court might address itself very strongly to the discretion of the trial judge
and authorize him to continue the case; but certainly there is
no abuse of discretion when the witnesses are beyond the jurisdiction of the court and beyond the power of its process, and
not only refuse to attend voluntarily, but give no indication that
they will at any time in the future be willing to attend upon
the sessions of the court. It was argued here that the court
should have sent an officer into the State of Alabama and served
each of the witnesses personally with subpoenas. We do not
think the court had any authority to do this, even if there were
no impropriety in an officer of this State going into the State of
Alabama and making personal service of a paper. The courts
of this State are under no obligations to litigants to send their
officers beyond the limits of the State to do acts which would
be purely voluntary on the part of such officers; and certainly
the court should not use one of its officers in this way when
the sole purpose in so doing would be to produce a species of
moral coercion upon a citizen of another State to come into this
State, when he is not required by law to do so, and would have
a right to ignore the command of the court thus transmitted to
him. The point was made in the court below, and was argued
here, that the failure of the law of this State to provide a
method for compelling the attendance of witnesses from beyond
the jurisdiction of the State, or for obtaining the depositions of
VOL. oLxxxi I-36

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

such witnesses and allowing them to be introduced in evidence
in behalf of a person charged with crime, was a denial to such
person of the equal protection of the laws, and his conviction
under such circumstances would be depriving him of life or
liberty, as the case may be, without due process of law, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. We do not see how a person on trial could
be so said to be denied the equal protection of the laws when
he is tried under laws of procedure applicable to every person
charged with crime. :Nor can we see how a person is deprived
of life or liberty without due process of law, on account of not
having the benefit of the testimony of witnesses who are beyond the jurisdiction of the court, when the law-making power
of the State is powerless to make any provision which would
result in the compulsory attendance of the witnesses, and the
use of depositions in such cases is directly contrary to the
usages, customs, and principles of the common law."
The requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment are satisfied
if trial is had according to the settled course of judicial procedure obtaining in the particular State, and the laws operate
on all persons alike and do not subject the individual to the
arbitrary exercise of the powers of government. Because it
not within the power of the Georgia courts to compel the attendance of witnesses who are beyond the limits of the State,
or because the taking or use of depositions of witnesses so situated in criminal cases on behalf of defendants, is not provided
for, and may not be recognized in Georgia, we cannot interfere
with the administration of justice in that State on the ground
of a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment in these particulars.
Judgment afflrmed.

