OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

a discharge, as the grounds stated therein are absolutely frivolous, and as the result reached in the Circuit Court was in accordance with law and justice,
Te judgment is ajfrmed and it isfurther ordered that the
mandate issue at once.

PINNEY v. NELSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
CALI1?ORNIA.
No. 65. Submitted April 26, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.
When a corporation is formed in one State, and by the express terms of its
charter it is created for doing business in another State, and business is
done in that State, it must be assumed that the charter contract was made
with reference to its laws; and the liability which those laws impose will
attend the transaction of such business.

THIS was an action to enforce a personal liability of stockholders. It was commenced in a justice's court of Los Angeles
city, Los Angeles County, California, on September 30, 1898, by
the defendant in error against the plaintiffs in error. It was
subsequently transferred to the superior court of the county,
where a trial was had on January 17, 1900, before the court
without a jury. A stipulation was signed as to the truth of
various averments in the complaint and answer, which concluded as follows:
"And it is stipulated that the only question in this case is as
to whether section 322 of the Civil Code of California is in violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States,
and if it is in violation of such provisions defendants are entitled
to judgment, but if said section is not in violation of said provisions, then plaintiff is entitled to judgment as prayed for in
his complaint."
Findings of fact were also made, among which were the following:

PINNEY v. NELSON.
Statement of the Case.

"II. That the Los Angeles Iron and Steel Company was a
corporation organized on the 8th day of March, 1893, and incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado; that the
seventh provision of its articles of incorporation is as follows,
to wit: The said company is created for the purpose of carrying on part of its business beyond the limits of the State of Colorado, and the principal office of said company in the State shall
be kept at the city of Denver, Arapahoe County, and the principal plant and principal operations of said company beyond the
limits of the State shall be in Los Angeles County, State of California, and such other places in the State of California as may
be decided upon by the board of directors. The principal business of said company in the State of Colorado shall be carried on
in Arapahoe County.
"III. That the defendants are and were at all times herein
mentioned residents and citizens of the State of California.
"IV. That all the indebtedness of said Los Angeles Iron and
Steel Company to plaintiff and to plaintiff's assignors was created
by contracts made, executed and to be performed in the State
of California."
"VI. That at the time the said indebtedness was created and
incurred by the said company there were issued of the capital
stock thereof the number of 1311 shares, and that the defendants were at said times the owners respectively of the number
of said shares as set opposite their respective names, as follows,
to wit: H. L. Pinney, 50 shares; C. L. Pinney, 42 shares; W.C.
Patterson, 35 shares; C. W. Damerel, 91 shares; F. E. Little,
22 shares; Thomas Brooks, 38 shares."
Upon the stipulation and findings a judgment was rendered
in favor of the plaintiff. A writ of error was subsequently sued
out from this to that court, it being the highest court in the State
to which the action could be taken.
Article 12, section 15, of the constitution of California,
adopted in 1879, reads:
"No corporation organized outside the limits of this State
shall be allowed to transact business within this State on more
favorable conditions than are prescribed by law to similar corporations organized under the laws of this State."
VOL. oLxxXM-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 322 of the Civil Code of California, as amended
March 15, 1876, provides as follows:
"Each stockholder of a corporation is individually and personally liable for such proportion of its debts and liabilities as
the amount of stock or shares owned by him bears to the whole
of the subscribed capital stock or shares of the corporation, and
for a like proportion only of each debt or claim against the corporation. Any creditor of the corporation may institute joint
or several actions against any of its stockholders, for the proportion of his claim payable by each, and in such action the
court must ascertain the proportion of the claim or debt for
which each defendant is liable, and a several judgment must
be rendered against each, in conformity therewith.
"The liability of each stockholder of a corporation, formed
under the laws of any other State or Territory of the United
States, or of any foreign country, and doing business within
this State, shall be the same as the liability of a stockholder
of a corporation created under the constitution and laws of
this State."
By the stipulation above referred to the truthfulness of the
following averment in the answer was admitted:
"Defendants allege that there is no statute of the State of
Colorado providing that stockholders shall be liable for any
portion of the indebtedness of a corporation, and allege that
under the laws of the State of Colorado a stockholder in a
corporation is not liable for any portion of the indebtedness of
said corporation."
rf. J. T. fo.Ynley for plaintiffs in
.r'. AL L. Gr'af and
error.
AL". T. S. Taylor, Xr. Edward TW. Forgy and Xr. ,. A.
Anderson for defendant in error.
MR.JUsTicE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error rely upon the proposition that the liability of a stockholder is determined by the charter of the cor-

PINNEY v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

poration and the laws of the State in which the incorporation is
had. "If the constitution to which a corporator has agreed
does not provide for individual liability to creditors, he cannot
be charged with individual liability anywhere. (Morawetz on
Corporations, 2d ed. see. 874.)" They invoke the lero loci contractus,and say that the stockholders' contract was made in
Colorado, that being the State in which the Los Angeles Iron
and Steel Company was incorporated; that by the laws of that
State there is no personal liability of stockholders; that it is
not within the power of California to change the terms of that
contract, the Federal Constitution (Art. I, sec. 10) forbidding a
State to pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts; that
while California, which prescribes an individual liability of
stockholders, may if it sees fit exclude every corporation of
another State whose stockholders do not assent to such liability, yet if it fails to do so, and such Colorado corporation actually comes into California to transact business, such coming
into the State and the transaction of business therein do not
change the terms of the stockholders' contracts, or impose a
personal liability; and also that in such a case an attempt to
enforce the statutory provisions of California so far as to change
the personal liability of corporators in the foreign corporation,
is in conflict with the due process and equal protection clauses
of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment.
With reference to the contention that the law of California
impairs the obligation of the contract of the stockholders, it is
enough to say that that law, both constitutional and statutory,
was enacted long before the incorporation of the Los Angeles
Iron and Steel Company, and that therefore section 10 of Article I of the Federal Constitution has no application. "It is
equally clear that the law of the State to which the Constitution refers in that clause must be one enacted after the making
of the contract, the obligation of which is claimed to be impaired." Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S.388, 391. See
also Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S.103, 111; -oCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S.102, 116.
Passing to a consideration of the stockholders' contract in
the light of the other contention, it may be said that ordinarily

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

it is controlled by the law of the State in which the incorporation is had. That is the place of contract, and, generally, the
law of the place where a contract is made governs its nature,
interpretation and obligation. While this is so, it is also true
that parties in making a contract may have in view some other
law than that of the place, and when that is so that other law
will control. That the parties have some other law in view and
contract with reference to it is shown by an express declaration
to that effect. In the absence of such declaration it may be
disclosed by the terms of the contract and the purpose with
which it is entered into. In Pritchardv. HYorton, 106 U. S.
124, many cases were cited by Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering
the opinion of the court, in which these propositions were illustrated and enforced, and on page 136 it was said:
"The law we are in search of, which is to decide upon the
nature, interpretation and validity of the engagement in question, is that which the parties have, either expressly or presumptively, incorporated into their contract as constituting its obligation. It has never been better described than it was incidentally
by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in Wayman v. Southard, 10
Wheat. 1, 48, where he defined it as a principle of universal law,
'The principle that in every forum a contract is governed by
the law with a view to which it was made.' The same idea had
been expressed by Lord Mansfield in Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burr.
1077, 1078, 'the law of the place,' he said, 'can never be the
rule where the transaction is entered into with an express view
to the law of another country, as the rule by which it is to be
governed.' And in Lloyd v. Cruibert,Law Rep. 1 Q. B. 115, 120,
in the Court of Exchequer Chamber, it was said that ' it is necessary to consider by what general law the parties intended that
the transaction should be governed, or rather, by what general
law it is just to presume that they have submitted themselves
in the matter.' Le Breton v. Xiles, 8 Paige [N. Y. ], 261."
The subject was also discussed at length by Mr. Justice Gray
in Ziver pool Steam Company v. Phenix Insurance Company,
129 U. S. 397. In Coghlan v. South Carolina Railroad Corn,
pany, 142 U. S. 101, 110, Mr. Justice Harlan, referring to
these two opinions, observed: "The elaborate and careful re-

PINNEY v. NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

view of the adjudged cases, American and English, in the two
cases last cited, leaves nothing to be said upon the general subject."
In Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 588, Chief Justice
Taney said:
"It isvery true that a corporation can have no legal existence out of the boundaries of the sovereignty by which it is
created.

.

.

.

But although it must live and have its being

in that State only, yet it does not by any means follow that
its existence there will not be recognized in other places; and
its residence in one State creates no insuperable obiection to its
power of contracting in another. It is indeed a mere artificial
being, invisible and intangible, yet it is a person for certain
purposes in contemplation of law, and has been recognized as
such by the decisions of this court. It was so held in the case
of The United State v. Amedy, 11 Wheat. 412, and in Beaston v. The Falmers' Bank of Delaware, 12 Pet. 135. Now
natural persons, through the intervention of agents, are continually making contracts in countries in which they do not
reside, and where they are not personally present when the
contract is made, and nobody has ever doubted the validity of
these agreements. And what greater objection can there be
to the capacity of an artificial person, by its agents, to make a
contract within the scope of its limited powers, in a sovereignty
in which it does not reside, provided such contracts are permitted to be made by them by the laws of the place? "
And then, after discussing the question of comity, added
(p. 589):
"Adopting, as we do, the principle here stated, we proceed
to inquire whether, by the comity of nations, foreign corporations are permitted to make contracts within their jurisdiction,
and we can perceive no sufficient reason for excluding them
whlen they are not contrary to the known policy of the State,
or injurious to its interests.
"It is nothing more than the admission of the existence of
an artificial person created by the law of another State, and
clothed with the power of making certain contracts. It is but
the usual comity of recognizing the law of another State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion ot the Court.

As then a corporation can have no legal existence outside of
the State in which it is incorporated, the contract of the stockholders with one another, by which the corporation is created,
is presumed to have been made with reference to the laws of
that State, nothing being said in the charter to the contrary.
But as comity permits a corporation to enter another State
and do business therein, it is competent for the stockholders in
making their charter to contract with reference to the laws of
a State in which they propose the corporation shall do business.
And in this case the stockholders in their charter specified that
the purpose of the incorporation was partly business beyond
the limits of Colorado, and that the principal part of such outside business should be carried on in California. Not content
to rely upon the general authority which by the rules of comity
the Colorado corporation would have to enter California, and
transact business therein, they in terms set forth that a part of
the purpose of the incorporation was the transaction of business by the corporation in California. Now when they in
terms specified that they were framing a corporation for the
purpose of having that corporation do business in California is
it not clear that they were contracting with reference to the
laws of that State? Contracting with reference to the laws of
that State they must be assumed to know the provisions of
those laws; that by them a personal liability was cast upon
the stockholders in corporations formed under the laws of the
State, and that that same liability was also imposed upon the
stockholders of corporations formed under the laws of other
States and doing business within California. How can it be
said that those laws do not enter into the contract and control
as to all business done in pursuance of that contract within the
limits of -California? Suppose these same stockholders in Colorado had formed a partnership with the expressed intent of
carrying on business in California, would not that expressed
intent be a clear reference to the laws of California and an incorporation of those laws into the liabilities created by the
partnership business in California? And if this rule obtains
as to contracts of partners between themselves, why not also
as to contracts of stockholders between themselves in forming
a corporation?

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
In this case it appears that the business transactions out of
which these liabilities arose were carried on in California.
They resulted from business done in California by virtue of an
express contract made by the stockholders with reference to
such business. It is unnecessary to express an opinion upon the
question whether any personal liability would be assumed by
the stockholders in reference to business transacted in Colorado.
Parties may contract with special reference to carrying on business in separate States, and when they make an express contract therefor the business transacted in each of the States will
be affected by the laws of those States, and may result in a
difference of liability. Neither is it necessary to express any
opinion upon the question whether the defendants could have
been held liable under the California statutes, independently of
the provisions of the Colorado charter. All that we here hold
is that when a corporation is formed in one State, and by the
express terms of its charter it is created for doing business in
another State, and business is done in that State, it must be assumed that the charter contract was made with reference to
its laws; and the liabilities which those laws impose will attend the transaction of such business.
The judgment of the Superior Court is
Aftimed.

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 207. Argued January 8, 9,10, 11, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.

The act of Congress taking effect May 1, 1900, and known as the Foraker
act, which requires all merchandise going into Porto Rico from the United States to pay a duty of fifteen per cent of the amount of duties paid
upon merchandise imported from foreign countries, is constitutional.
The Constitution, in declaring that no tax or duty shall be laid on articles
exported from any State, is limited to articles exported to a foreign country, and has no application to Porto Rico, which, in the case of De Lima

