McCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 483
Statement of the Case.

series of years, during which, and upon the ground that, the
state officers had neglected their duty. If state railway taxes
may be made retroactive for three years, and again for another
three ypears, I see no reason why this method of taxation may
not be continued indefinitely so long as any property remains
from which it may be collected. This kind of discrimination
seems to be measurable only by the rapacity of the legislature.

McCHORD

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
McCHORD '. LOUISVILLE, HENDERSON AND ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY.
M]oCHORD v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY
COMPANY.
MoCHORD . SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY IN
KENTUCKY.
.

McCHORD v. CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND
TEXAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KEETUCKY.
Nos. 141,142, 143, 144, 145. Argued January 7,8,1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.

By the decrees in these cases, the Railroad Commission of the Commonwealth of Kentucky was enjoined from proceeding to fix rates under a
certain act of the General Assembly charged to be unconstitutional, the
ground of equity jurisdiction being threatened multiplicity of suits, and
irreparable injury.
This court, being of opinion that under the Kentucky statutes the duty of
enforcing the rates it might fix vested in the Railroad Commission, held
that none of the alleged consequences could be availed of as threatened
before the rates were fixed at all.

THESE are appeals from the final decrees of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Kentucky, perpetually

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

enjoining Charles C. M Chord and others, railroad commissioners of the State of Kentucky, from doing any of the things
required by, or from taking any action whatever against complainants under a certain act of the general assembly of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, approved March 10, 1900, c. 2,
which is entitled and reads as follows:
"An act to prevent railroad compames or corporations owning and operating a line or lines of railroad and its officers,
agents, and employ~s from charging, collecting, or receiving
extortionate freight or passenger rates in this Commonwealth,
and to further increase and define the duties and powers of the
railroad commission in reference thereto, and prescribing the
manner of enforcing the provisions of this act and penalties for
the violation of its provisions.
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky:
"SEc. 1. When complaint shall be made to the railroad com-

mission accusing any railroad company or corporation of charging, collecting or receiving extortionate freight or passenger
rates over its line or lines of railroad in this Commonwealth,
or when said commission shall receive information or have reason to believe that such rate or rates are being charged, collected or received, it shall be the duty of said commission to
hear and determine the matter as speedily as possible. They
shall give the company or corporation complained of not less
than ten days' notice, by letter mailed to an officer or employ6
of said company or corporation, stating the time and place of
the hearing of same; also the nature of the complaint or matter to be investigated, and shall hear such statements, arguments or evidence offered by the parties as the commission may
deem relevant; and should the commission determine that the
company or corporation is, or has been, guilty of extortion, said
commission shall make and fix a just and reasonable rate, toll
or compensation which said railroad company or corporation
may charge, collect or receive for like services thereafter rendered. The rate, toll or compensation so fixed by the commission shall be entered and be an order on the record book of
their office and signed by the commission, and a copy thereof

McCfIORD v.

OTISVILLV, & NASAVILLEt R'D Co. 485
Statement of the Case.

mailed to an officer, agent or employ6 of the railroad company
or corporation affected thereby, and shall be in full force and
effect at the expiration of ten days thereafter, and may be reyoked or modified by an order likewise entered of record. And
should said railroad company or corporation, or any officer,
a gent or employ6 thereof charge, collect or receive a greater or
higher rate, toll or compensation, for like services thereafter
rendered than that made and fixed by said commission, as
herein provided, said company or corporation, and said officer,
agent or employ6 shall each be deemed guilty of extortion, and
upon conviction, shall be fined for the first offence in any sum
not less than five hundred dollars nor more than one thousand
dollars, and upon a second conviction, in any sum not less than
one thousand dollars nor more than two thousand dollars, and
for third and succeeding convictions in any sum not less than
two thousand dollars nor more than five thousand dollars.
"SEc. 2. The circuit court of any county into or through
which the line or lines of road carrying such passenger or
freight, owned or operated by said railroad, and the Franklin
circuit court, shall have jurisdiction of the offence against the
railroad company or corporation offending, and the circuit
court of the county where such offence may be committed by
said officer, agent or employ6, shall have jurisdiction in all
prosecutions against said offlcer, agent or employ6.
"SEc. 3. Prosecutions under this act shall be by indictment.
"SME. 4. All prosecutions under this act shall be commenced
within two years after the offence shall have been committed.
"SEc. 5. In making said investigation said commission may,
when deemed necessary, take the depositions of witnesses before an examiner or notary public, whose fees shall be paid by
the State, and upon the certificate of the chairman of the commission, approved by the governor, the auditor shall draw his
warrant upon the treasurer for its payment."
All the bills sought the same relief, and their averments, excepting those in respect of alleged contracts with the State in
relation to rates set up in the bills of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company and of the Cincinnati, New Orleans and
Texas Pacific Railway Company, were in substance the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The act of 'March 10, 1900, was set out in full; its provisions
recapitulated; and complainants' view of the legal effect thereof
given. The third paragraph was: "All of your orator's rates
charged, collected or received within the State of Kentucky
are just and reasonable and have not been sufficient for many
years to give it a fair return upon the reasonable value of its
investment, notwithstanding it has at all times operated its
property with the strictest economy and in the most skillful
manner."
It was then averred that it was the duty of the railroad commission to see that the laws relating to all railroads, except
street, were faithfully executed, and to exercise a general supervision over the railroads of the State; that its functions were
administrative; that it was not established as a court; and that
under the state constitution it could not be permitted to 6xercise judicial powers. That all common carriers were subject
only to the requirement that their rates should be just and
reasonable, and they were in case of controversy entitled to
have the judgment of the courts on that question, but that the
act referred to singled out railroad corporations and deprived
them of any opportunity to have a judicial determination of
the reasonableness of their rates when disputed; substituted
the non-judicial determination of the railroad commission; and
subjected them to penalties, there being no infliction of penalties provided as to other common carriers. That if defendants
be permitted to proceed under the act, each complainant "will
be compelled to charge the rates fixed by them without any
opportunity for a judicial investigation and determination as
to their reasonableness, and it will thus be deprived of the lawful use of its property and in substance and effect of its property itself without due process of law, and will also be denied
the equal protection of the laws, in violation of section 1 of
article 14 of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States."
It was further averred that the act was in conflict with
clause 3 of section 8 of article I of the Constitution of the
United States, giving Congress the exclusive power to regulate
commerce among the States, and with the acts of Congress in
that behalf.

MoCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 487
Statement of the Case.

The bills then continued:
"And defendants have called for and obtained from your
orator a list of rates fixed and charged by it for transportation
of freight and passengers over its railroads in the State of
Kentucky for the purpose of considering whether or not they
shall be altered and reduced in accordance with the terms of
said act, and are giving it out in speeches and interviews that
they intend to proceed at once under said act, and unless restrained by the order of this court defendants will proceed at
once to hear and determine complaints under said act, although
the same is in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States in all the particulars hereinabove set out, and is therefore null and void, and will proceed thereupon to reduce your
orator's rates to such as they think your orator should charge,
and will thereafter at pleasure modify and still further reduce
the rates so fixed, and if your orator does not observe the rates
so fixed, no matter how unjustly and unreasonably low, your
orator will be subjected to innumerable prosecutions throughout the State of Kentucky for failing to comply with such rates
fixed in this unconstitutional manner, and it will be subjected
to innumerable suits by consignors and consignees, who will
claim the right to ship at said rates so unconstitutionally fixed
and to sue for any excess they may be charged over said rates,
though rightfully charged, and at the same time all your orator's officers and agents and servants, though perfectly innocent of any offence and though merely assisting your orator to
maintain its constitutional rights, will be indicted, prosecuted,
and heavily fined, to the great demoralization of the public service which your orator is bound to render, and so it is, unless
said defendants are restrained by the order of this court from
proceeding under said act, your orator's contract rights will be
impaired, it will be deprived of its property without due process
of law, denied the equal protection of the law, and subjected
to great and irreparable wrong and injury and to a vast multiplicity of prosecutions and actions in the courts of said State."
The cases were disposed of on demurrer.
The constitution of the State of Kentucky provided:
1§ 209. Railroad commission-Number-Qualifications-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Powers-Election-Term of office-Removal of.-A commission is hereby established, to be known as 'The Railroad Commission,' which shall be composed of three commissioners.
During the session of the general assembly which convenes in
December, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, and before the
first day of June, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, the governor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the
senate, said three commissioners, one from each superior court
district as now established, and said appointees shall take their
office at the expiration of the terms of the present incumbents.
The commissioners so appointed shall continue in office during
the term of the present governor, and until their successors axe
elected and qualified.- At the regular election in eighteen hundred and ninety-five, and every four years thereafter, the commissioners shall be elected, one in each superior court district,
by the qualified voters thereof, at the same time and for the
same term as the governor. No person shall be eligible to said
office unless he be, at the time of his election, at least thirty
years of age, a citizen of Kentucky two years, and a resident
of the district from which he is chosen one year, next preceding his election. Any vacancy in this office shall be filled as
provided in section one hundred and fifty-two of this constitution. The general assembly may, from time to time, change
said districts so as to equalize the population thereof; and
may, if deemed expedient, require that the commissioners be
all elected by the qualified voters of the State at large. And
if so required, one commissioner shall be from each district.
No person in the service of any railroad or common carrier
company or corporation, or of any firm or association conducting business as a common carrier, or in anywise pecuniarily interested in such company, corporation, firm or association, or
in the railroad business, or as a common carrier, shall hold such
office. The powers and duties of the railroad commissioners
shall be regulated by law; and until otherwise provided by law,
the commission so created shall have the same powers and jurisdiction, perform the same duties, be subject to the same regulations, and receive the same compensation, as now conferred,
prescribed and allowed by law to the existing railroad com-

McCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 489
Statement of the Case.

missioners. The general assembly may, for cause, address any
of said commissioners out of office by similar proceedings as in
the case of judges of the Court of Appeals; and the general
assembly shall enact laws to prevent the nonfeasance and misfeasance in office of said commissioners, and to impose proper
penalties therefor."
"§ 218. Penalty for charging more for short than long haulPower of commission.-It shall be unlawful for any person or
corporation, owning or operating a railroad in this State, or any
common carrier, to charge or receive any greater compensation
in the aggregate for the transportation of passengers, or of property of like kind, under substantially similar circumstances and
conditions, for a shorter than for a longer distance over the
same line, in the same direction, the shorter being included
within the longer distance; but this shall not be construed as
authorizing any common carrier, or person or corporation, owning or operating a railroad in this State, to receive as great compensation for a shorter as for a longer distance: Provided,
That upon application to the railroad commission, such common
carrier, or person, or corporation owning or operating a railroad
in this State, may, in special cases, after investigation by the
commission, be authorized to charge less for longer than for
shorter distances for the transportation of passengers, or property; and the commission may, from time to time, prescribe
the extent to which such common carrier, or person or corporation, owning or operating a railroad in this State, may be relieved from the operations of this section."
The following are sections of the General Laws of Kentucky
of 1894:
1"§ 816. Extortion-what is.-If any railroad corporation shall
charge, collect or receive more than a just and reasonable rate
of toll or compensation for the transportation of passengers or
freight in this State, or for the use of any railroad car upon its
track, or upon any track it has control of, or the right to use in
this State, it shall be guilty of extortion.
"§ 817. Discrimination-what is.-If any corporation engaged in operating a railroad in this State shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback or other device,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

charge, demand, collect or receive from any person a greater or
less compensation for any service rendered in the transportation
of passengers or property than it charges, demands, collects or
receives from any other person for doing for him a like and
contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of
traffic, it shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination.
"§ 818. Preference or advantage forbidden-Rules defining
same quantity of freight.-It shall be unlawful for any corporation to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage to any particular person or locality, or any particular
description of traffic, in any respect whatever, in the transportation of a like kind of traffic; or to subject any particular person,
company, firm, corporation or locality, or any particular description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage.
"§ 819. Penalty in damages for extortion, discrimination,
preference-Jurisdiction-Duty of commission-Limitation.Any railroad corporation that shall be guilty of extortion or
unjust discrimination, or of giving to any person or locality, or
to any description of traffic, an undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage, shall, upon conviction, be fined for the first offence
in any sum not less than five hundred dollars nor more than one
thousand dollars; and, upon a second conviction, in any sum not
less than five hundred dollars nor more than two thousand dollars; and, upon a third conviction, in any sum not less than two
thousand dollars nor more than five thousand dollars. The circuit court of any county into or through which the line of railroad may run, owned or operated by the corporation alleged
to be guilty as aforesaid, and the Franklin circuit court, shall
have jurisdiction of the offence, which shall be prosecuted by
indictment, or by action in the name of the Commonwealth,
upon information filed by the board of railroad commissioners;
and such railroad corporation shall also be liable in damages to
the party aggrieved to the amount of damages sustained, together with cost of suit and reasonable attorneys' fees to be
fixed by the court. Indictments under this section shall be made
only upon the recommendation or request of the railroad commission, filed in the court having jurisdiction of the offence;

MoCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 491
Statement of the Case.

and all prosecutions and actions under this law shall be commenced within two years after the offence shall have been committed, or the cause of action shall have accrued.
"1§820. Long and short haul over same road-Penalty-urisdiction of courts-Duty of commission.-If any person owning or operating a railroad in this State, or any common carrier,
shall charge or receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation of passengers or property of like kind,
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, for a
shorter than for a longer distance, over the same line in the same
direction, the shorter being included within the longer distance,
such person shall, for each offence, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and fined not less than one hundred nor more than five hundred
dollars, to be recovered by indictment in the Franklin circuit
court, or the circuit court of any county into or through which the
railroad or common carrier so violating runs or carries on its business. Upon complaint made to the railroad commission that any
railroad or common carrier has violated the provisions of this section, it shall be the duty of the commission to investigate the
grounds of complaint, and if, after such investigation, the commission deems it proper to exonerate the railroad or common carrier
from the operation of the provisions of this section, an order in
writing to that effect shall be made by the commission, and a
copy thereof delivered to the complainant and the railroad or
common carrier, and the same shall be published as a part of
the report of the commission; and after such order, the railroad
or carrier shall not be prosecuted or fined on account of the
complaint made. If the commission, after investigation, fails
to exonerate the railroad or carrier from the operation of the
provisions of this section, an order in writing to that effect shall
be made by the commission, and a copy thereof delivered to the
complainant, and the railroad or common carrier, and the same
shall be published as a part of the report of the commission;
and after such order, it shall be the duty of the commission to
furnish a statement of the facts, together with a copy of its
order, to the grand jury of any county, the circuit court of
which has jurisdiction, in order that the railroad company or
carrier may be indicted for the offence; and the commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

shall use proper efforts to see that such company or carrier is
indicted and prosecuted.
"§ 821. Three commissioners-Duties.-There is established
a department in the state government to be known as the railroad commission, which shall be composed of three commissioners, one of whom shall act as chairman, and whose duty it
shall be to see that the laws relating to all railroads, except
street, are faithfully executed, and to exercise a general supervision over the railroads of the State. Each of said commissioners is authorized to administer oaths, and two of them shall
constitute a quorum."
"§ 826. Rates from foreign points to be examined by commission-Duty of commission.-Said commission shall examine
all through freight rates from points out of this State to points
into this State; and whenever they find that a through rate
charge into or out of this State is excessive or unreasonable, or
discriminating in its nature, they shall call the attention of the
railroad officials in this State to the fact, and to urge them of
the propriety of changing such freight. And when such rates
are not changed, it shall be the duty of said commission to present the facts to the Interstate Commerce Commission and appeal to it for relief, and they shall receive upon application the
services of the attorney general of this State and into the condition, management, and all other matters concerning the business of railroads in this State, so far as the same pertain to the
relation of such railroads to the public, and whether such railroad corporations, their officers and employ~s, comply with the
laws of the State; and whenever it shall come to their knowledge, or they shall have reason to believe, that the laws affecting railroad corporations in their business relations to the public have been violated, they shall prosecute, or cause to be prosecuted, the corporations or persons guilty of such violation.
"§ 827. Examination of officers and employ~s by commission
-Penalty for contempt.-They shall have the power to examine, under oath, any person, or the directors, officers, agents and
employ~s of any railroad corporation doing business in this
State, concerning the management of its affairs, and to obtain
information pursuant to this law; and shall have power to issue

MoCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 493
Statement of the Case.

subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses, and to administer
oaths; and any person who shall neglect or refuse to obey the
process of subpcenas issued by said commission, or who, being
in attendance, shall refuse to testify, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
for each offence by a fine of not less than fifty dollars nor more
than one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not less than ten
nor more than fifty days, or both, in the discretion of the jury.
"§ 828. Penalty for failing to make required reports or obstructing commission-Jurisdiction of courts.-E ach officer,
agent or employ6 failing or refusing to make, under oath, any
report required by the commission within the time required, or
failing or refusing to answer fully, under oath, if required, any
inquiry propounded by the commission, or who shall, in any
way, hinder or obstruct the commission in the discharge of its
duty, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined for
each offence not less than five hundred nor more than one
thousand dollars; and it shall be the duty of the commission to
prosecute the person offending; and the Franklin circuit court,
or the circuit court of any county through which the railroad
runs, the officer, agent or employ6 of which has violated the
provisions of this section, shall have jurisdiction of such prosecution; and it shall be the duty of the Commonwealth's attorney to prosecute all indictments, actions and proceedings under
this law.
"§ 829. Complaints against companies-Award of commission-Proceedings upon.-The commission shall hear and determine complaints under sections eight hundred and sixteen,
eight hundred and' seventeen and eight hundred and eighteen.
Such complaints shall be made in writing, and they shall give
the company complained of not less than ten days' notice of the
time and place of the hearing of the same. They shall hear
and reduce to writing all the evidence adduced by the parties,
and render such award as may be proper. If the award of the
commission be not satisfied within ten days after the same is
rendered, the chairman shall file a copy of said award and the
evidence heard, in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of
the county, which, under the Code of Practice, would have ju-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

risdiction of said controversy, and the clerk of said court shall
enter the same on the docket for trial; and summons shall be
issued, as in other cases, against the party against whom the
award shall have been rendered, requiring said party to appear
in the court, within the time allowed in ordinary cases, and
show cause why said award shall not be satisfied. If such party
fails to appear, judgment shall be rendered by default, and the
same proceedings had thereon as in other ordinary cases. If a
trial is demanded the case shall be tried, in all respects, as other
ordinary cases in which the same amount is involved, except
that no evidence shall be introduced by either party except
that heard by the commission, except such as the court shall be
satisfied, by sworn testimony, could not have been produced before the commission by the exercise of reasonable diligence;
the judgment and proceedings thereon shall be the same as in
other ordinary cases."
.Mr. Robert J: Breckenridge, 21'. -David W. Baird and -M'.
Aaron Kohn and 2Mr.
Lewis McQuownr for appellants. .Mr.
Zach. Phelps were on their brief.
31r. Alexander Pope Humphrey, Mr. WalAker -D. Hines and
.1r.James P. Helm for appellees. -Y'. .ldward Colston, r..
-f. IF. Bruce, -Y. Helm Bruce, -MW'. Thomas Kennedy Hfelm,
.Mr. .H. Wadsworth and -Mr. A. X. I. Cochran were on
their brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the decrees the Railroad Commission of the Commonwealth of Kentucky was permanently restrained from proceeding under the act of March 10, 1900, which was alleged and
held to be unconstitutional.
Conceding that the mere fact that a duly enacted law is unconstitutional does not entitle a party to relief by injunction
against proceedings in compliance therewith, it is contended
that ground of equity jurisdiction existed here in the want of

McCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 495
Opinion of the Court.

adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of law for the threatened consequences of the exercise of the power to fix rates in
multiplicity of suits and irreparable injury.
It is insisted that, according to the terms of the act, the order of the Commission fixing the rate, toll or compensation
which the railroad companies may charge, is self-executing,
and that no duty to enforce it is imposed on the Commission;
that the companies are shut up by the act, to the final determination of the Commission that they have charged more than
a just and reasonable rate, and that on the trial of indictments
for failure to observe the rates made by the Commission, the
courts cannot entertain any inquiry as to the reasonableness of
the rates so fixed because such inquiry is unwarranted by the
statute, and because such an investigation would be illusory
and worthless. And that even if the question of constitutionality could be raised in defence, yet that if such order be permitted to be entered of record, and notified as provided, the
companies, if they do not comply, will be at once exposed to
innumerable prosecutions, and to financial ruin by the accumulation of penalties before a judicial decision as to the validity
of the statute could be had, if it should then happen that the
statute is upheld.
However all this may be, we think it is not to be doubted
that these bills cannot be maintained if it appear that the Commission is charged with the duty of enforcing the orders it may
enter fixing rates. The objection that before this is done, the
Commission is required to exercise judicial functions in determining that the companies have charged or received more than
a just and reasonable rate, goes to the validity of the act. The
fixing of rates is essentially legislative in its character, and the
general rule is that legislative action cannot be interfered with
by injunction.
It is true that in Stone v. Farmers'Zoan & Tust Company,
116 U. S. 307, the suit was brought to enjoin the railroad commission of Mississippi from proceeding under the provisions of
a certain statute therein mentioned against a railroad company,
but the question of jurisdiction does not seem to have been
raised. The case was considered on its merits and the bill di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

rected to be dismissed.

Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for

the court, among other things, said: "As yet the commissioners
have done nothing. There is, certainly, much they may do in
regulating charges within the State, which will not be in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. It is to be presumed they will always act within the limits of their constitutional authority. It will be time enough to consider what may
be done to prevent it when they attempt to go beyond."
In Yew Orleans W~aterworks Co. v. Hew Orleans, 164 U. S.
471, 472, the general rule was stated and applied, and Mr. Justice Harlan, who delivered the opinion of the court, said: "We
repeat that when the city council shall pass an ordinance that
infringes the rights of the plaintiff, and is unconstitutional and
void as impairing the obligation of its contract with the State,
it will be time enough for equity to interfere, and, by injunction
to prevent the execution of such ordinance. If the ordinances
already passed are in derogation of the plaintiff's contract rights,
their enforcement can be prevented by appropriate proceedings
instituted directly against the parties who seek to have the benefit of them. This may involve the plaintiff in a multiplicity of
actions. But that circumstance cannot justify any such decree
as it asks."
The rule was also applied by Mr. Justice Field in Alpers v.
San .Francisco,32 Fed. Rep. 503, where complainant sought an
injunction to restrain the passage of an ordinance which he alleged would impair the obligation of a contract he had with the
city. Mr. Justice Field said: "This no one will question as
applied to the power of the legislature of the State. The suggestion of any such jurisdiction of the court over that body
would not be entertained for a moment. The same exemption
from judicial interference applies to all legislative bodies, so far
as their legislative discretion extends. . . . The courts cannot in the one case forbid the passage of a law nor in the other
the passage of a resolution, order or ordinance. If by either
body, the legislature or the board of supervisors, an unconstitutional act be passed, its enforcement may be arrested. The parties seeking to execute the invalid act can be reached by the
courts, while the legislative body of the State or of the munici-

M oCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 497
Opinion of the Court.

pality, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, is beyond
their jurisdiction. The fact that in either case the legislative action threatened may be in disregard of constitutional restraints,
and impair the obligation of a contract, as alleged in this case,
does not affect the question. It is legislative discretion which
is exercised, and that discretion, whether rightf ully or wrongfully exercised, is not subject to interference by the judiciary."
In Southern Pacitc Company v. Board. of Bailroad Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep. 236, the law of California provided
that the commissioners might "enforce their decisions and
correct abuses through the medium of the courts;" and, in
substance, that after the rate was made by the commission, a
copy of the order should be served on the corporation affected
thereby, and that twenty days thereafter the rate should take
effect. A bill was filed before the twenty days had expired,
and Mr. Justice McKenna, then Circuit Judge, held, that it
was the duty of the commissioners to enforce the rate, and
that an injunction would lie. The railroad commission had
made an order reducing the grain rates of the company eight
per cent, and had passed a resolution declaring that its general charges were twenty-five per cent too high, and that
"this board proceed at once to adopt a revised schedule of
rates in accordance herewith in order that the same may be
in force before January 1, 1896." The court enjoined the enforcement of the eight per cent reduction, which had already
been made, but declined to restrain the twenty-five per cent
reduction, because no decisive action had been taken.
Reading the various sections of the General Statutes of Kentucky, set forth in the statement preceding this opinion, as in
yari materia with the act of March 10, 1900, which should be
done since they are parts of one system, having the same general objects in view, we think it apparent that the duty devolves
on the Commission to enforce the rates it may fix under the latter act. By section 816, extortion was defined to be charging
more than a just and reasonable rate. Section 817 defined
unjust discrimination, and section 818 forbade undue or unreasonable preference.
Section 819 denounced the same penalties on conviction of
VOL. OTXxx1-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the offence of extortion, or of unjust discrimination, or of unreasonable preference, and provided for prosecution by indictment, or by action in the name of the Commonwealth, on
information filed by the board of railroad commissioners; that
the railroad companies should be liable in damages to the party
aggrieved; and also that prosecution by indictment should only
be had on the recommendation or request of the railroad commission.
By section 829 the Commission was empowered to hear and
determine complaints under sections eight hundred and sixteen,
eight hundred and seventeen and eight hundred and eighteen,
and to enforce their awards in the courts.
The duty was imposed on the Commission to initiate indictments under section 820 for charging greater compensation, in
the aggregate, for a shorter than for a longer haul.
Section 821 made it the duty of the Commission to see that
the laws relating to railroads should be faithfully executed,
and to exercise a general supervision over the railroads of the
State.
So that unless the act of March 10, 1900, operated to repeal
the provisions of the prior law, by withdrawing from the Commission the duty of enforcing the rates it might fix, it was its
duty so to do, and indictments were to be found at its instance.
Section 816 read thus: "If any railroad corporation shall
charge, collect or receive more than a just and reasonable rate
of toll or compensation for the transportation of passengers or
freight in this State, or for the use of any railroad car upon
its track, or upon" any track it has control of, or the right to
use in this State, it shall be guilty of extortion."
In Louiville & _fashville Railroad Co. v. CommonwealthL, 99
Ky. 132, this section was considered. The court held that the
section could not be enforced as a penal statute for want of
certainty, and said:
"That this statute leaves uncertain what shall be deemed a
'just and reasonable rate of toll or compensation,' cannot be
denied, and that different juries might reach different conclusions, on the same testimony, as to whether or not an offence
has been committed, must also be conceded.

McCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 499
Opinion of the Court.

"The criminality of the carriers act, therefore, depends on
the jury's view of the reasonableness of the rate charged ; and
this latter depends on many uncertain and complicated elements.
"That the corporation has fixed a rate which it considers
will bring it only a fair return for its investment does not alter
the nature of the act. Under this statute it is still a crime,
though it cannot be known to be such until after an investigation by a jury, and then only in that particular case, as another
jury may take a different view, and, holding the rate reasonable, find the same act not to constitute an offence. There is
no standard whatever fixed by the statute, or attempted to be
fixed, by which the carrier may regulate its conduct; and it
seems clear to us to be utterly repugnant to our system of
laws to punish a person for an act, the criminality of which
depends, not on any standard erected by the law which may be
known in advance, but on one erected by a jury. And especially so as that standard must be as variable and uncertain as
the views of different juries may suggest, and as to which nothing can be known until after the commission of the crime."
The court referred to and quoted from Chicago, Burlington
&c. Railroad v. Jones, 149 Illinois, 361, and Chicago &c.Railroad v. The People, 77 Illinois, 443, in which it was held under
a similar statute that the want of certainty in lack of reference
to a standard under its first section was obviated by its eighth
section providing for the making by the railroad and warehouse
commissioners of schedules of reasonable and maximum rates,
which, being done, the Supreme Court of Illinois said, "there
will be a standard of what is fair and reasonable, and the statute can be conformed to and obeyed."
Such being the state of the law, the act of March 10, 1900,
was passed.
The mischief to be cured in respect of extortion as defined
by section 816 was the want of certainty, and the remedy provided was the fixing of the rates by the railroad commission.
In so providing, the act, while repeating many of the provisions of section 819, did, indeed, omit reference to an action by
way of information, and to liability in damages, and it also

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

omitted the provision that indictments should be made only on
the recommendation or request of the railroad commission, but
it does not, therefore, follow that it was the legislative inten-

tion, without any expression thereof in terms, to repeal so important a provision.
Was the provision repealed by necessary implication? "We
say by necessary implication, for it is not sufficient to establish
that subsequent laws cover some or even all of the cases provided for by it (the prior law); for they may be merely affirmative, or cumulative, or auxiliary." Story, J., Wood v. United
States, 16 Pet. 342, 362.
Repeals by implication are not favored, and are only allowed
to the extent that repugnancy exists, and in order to give an
act not clearly intended as a substitute for an.earlier one, the
effect of repealing it, the implication of the intention to do so
must necessarily flow from the language used, bearing in mind
the necessity and occasion of the law. And where it is plain
that the new law is in aid of the purposes of the old law, the
latter will not be held to be abrogated except so far as there is
palpable inconsistency.
We do not think that it was intended to repeal the provision
of section 819 requiring indictments to be found only on the
recommendation or request of the Commission, and still less
that it was intended to circumscribe in this particular the general duty of the Commission to see that the laws relating to
railroads should be faithfully executed.
Dealing, as we are, with the statutes of Kentucky, we are
gratified to find these views confirmed by the Court of Appeals
of that Commonwealth in Illinois Cent'al Rail'oad Company
v. Commonwealth, decided October 25, 1901, its opinion having
been furnished us at the close of the argument, and since reported in 64 S.W. Rep. 975.
In that case the railroad company was indicted under section 820, and fined for charging more for a shorter than a longer
haul. The indictment was returned before the railroad commission had determined whether the company should be exonerated as provided by that section. The judgment was reversed, and Hobson, J., speaking for the court, said:

McCHORD v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. 501
Opinion of the Court.

"In the construction of statutes the cardinal aim of the court
is to arrive at the intention of the legislature. The court will
presume that the legislature meant something by all the provisions of the statute, and will endeavor to give them all a fair
effect. If the legislature had intended indictments to be found
for each offence, regardless of action by the railroad commission, we see no reason why the section might not have stopped
with the first sentence defining the offence and providing for
its punishment, for by the next section (821) it is made the duty
of the Commission 'to see that the laws relating to all railroads, except street, are faithfully executed;' and under this
provision it would be the duty of the Commission to see to
violations of the preceding section. . . . From the section
as a whole it is clear that the legislature had in mind providing
for the exoneration of the railroad from its provisions in proper
cases and exempting the carrier from criminal liability to this
extent. It therefore provided for an investigation by the railroad commission, a determination by it whether it deemed it
proper to exonerate the railroad and for the enforcement of its
decision by indictment by the grand jury in case the railroad
was not exonerated. To allow the carrier to be indicted in advance of any action by the railroad commission under this section would be to deprive it of all opportunity for exoneration.
The legislature had no such result in mind, but clearly aimed to
secure to the carrier a hearing on this question.
"The long and short haul matter is only another form of undue discrimination and preference, which are provided for by
section 819, and indictments under this section can only be had
upon the recommendation of the railroad commission. This
has been a settled legislative policy, as shown by the act of
April 6, 1882, (see General Statutes, 1021,) which was in force
at the time of the adoption of the constitution and the present
statutes. In other words, the legislature has always acted upon the idea that the interests of the entire people of the State
should be looked to in these matters, and that the railroad commission must first determine them before the grand juries of
the State should find indictments."
The fourth section of the act of the general assembly of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky of April 6, 1882, (Acts, 1881, p. 66, c. 790,) entitled
"An act to prevent extortion and discrimination in the transportation of freight and passengers by railroad corporations,
and in aid of that purpose to establish a board of railroad commissioners, and define its powers and duties," set forth in the edition of the Kentucky statutes of 1887, p. 1021, and referred to
by the court, provided for the infliction of penalties on railroad
companies convicted of extortion or unlawful discrimination,
and that the offender should be "prosecuted by indictment or
or by action in the name of the Commonwealth, upon information filed by the board of railroad commissioners;" and also
that the companies should be liable in damages to the parties
aggrieved. The act of March 10, 1900, does not appear to have
been intended to change the settled legislative policy that indictments should be found on the recommendation of the Commission.
The result of these considerations is that the duty of enforcing its rates rests on the Commission and that none of the consequences alleged to be threatened can be set up as the basis of
equity interposition before the rates are fixed at all. Whether
after they are determined their enforcement can be restrained
is a question not arising for decision on this record, and we are
not called on to dispose of other contentions of grave importance, which were pressed in argument, as if now requiring adjudication.
JDecrees reversed and cases remanded to the Circuit Court
with a direction to sustain the demurrers and dismiss the
bills.

