OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ouster after a possible lapse of twenty-seven years, when the
very improvements he may have put upon the lands might be
the reason for their selection by the company.
We are therefore of opinion that the act of July 27, 1866, did
not authorize the withdrawal by the Secretary of the Interior
of the indemnity lands; that such lands remained open to homestead and preemption entry, and that patents issued to settlers
within such indemnity limits, based upon the entries made prior
to the selection by the railroad company, approved by the Interior Department, were valid as conveyances of the land as
against the selection by the railroad company.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is, therefore,
Affirmed.

GROECK v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPAN-Y.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Argued December 5, 6, 1901. -Decided

January 13,1902.

This case was argued and submitted with Southern Pacific Railroad Company v. Bell, ante, 675, and by the same counsel, resembles that in all
essential particulars, and is controlled by it.

THIS was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of California by the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, plaintiff, against Otto Groeck and another, defendants, to obtain a decree declaring the company to be the rightful owner of the south half of a certain quarter section of land
in Kings County, California, and that defendants hold the legal
title thereto in trust for it, a conveyance of which was prayed.,
The amended bill, as abstracted by the Circuit Court of Appeals, (87 Fed. Rep. 970,) alleged: "That the appellant accepted
the terms of the grant, fixed the general route of its road as contemplated by the act, and on January 3,1867, filed a map thereof

GROECK v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. 691
Statement of the Case.

in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office;
that on that date the Commissioner accepted and approved the
map and the route designated by it, and on March 22, 1867,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, he withdrew
the odd sections of land lying within thirty miles of the line of
road from sale or location, preemption or homestead entry; that
on November 2, 1869, the Secretary of the Interior made an
order declaring the withdrawal revoked; that on December 15,
1869, the Secretary suspended his order of November 2; that
on July 26, 1870, the Secretary restored the withdrawal of
March 22, 1867; that on August 15, 1887, the Secretary declared the withdrawal of March 22, 1867, revoked, as to the indemnity sections thereof; that the appellant commenced to
build its road during the year 1870, and completed the construction in different sections between that date and the year 1889the last section, extending from Huron westerly to Alcalde, having been constructed during the year 1888; that the land in suit
is opposite to, and coterminous with that section, and is within
the indemnity limits of the grant, and is not included in any
exception therefrom; that on September 2, 1885, the appellee
Groeck settled on the land in controversy, and during the same
month filed his pre~mption claim therefor in the proper land
office of the United States, and thereafter complied with the
land office regulations, and on June 7, 1886, made preemption
proof and payment for the land; that on April 11, 1890, patent
was issued from the United States, conveying the land to him;
that, as the appellant's road was constructed in several sections,
such sections were examined by commissioners appointed by
the President, as provided by section 4 of 'the act, and that said
commissioners reported that such sections had been completed
as required by the act, and thereupon the President accepted
and approved the reports; that a map of the definite location
of such section between Huron and Alcalde was filed with and
approved by the Secretary of the Interior on April 2, 1889, and
the President accepted and approved the commissioners' report
on that section on November 8, 1889; that on July 13, 1891,
the appellant, acting under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, selected the land in suit, as granted to it by the act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

To this bill defendants interposed a plea setting up the various
steps by which the defendant Groeck obtained the patent of
the land as a qualified preemptor, and thereby, as alleged,
obtained a legal and perfect title in fee simple; and further
setting up the defence of laches to the claim of the railroad
company.
The Circuit Court entered an order sustaining the plea upon
the ground of laches, with leave to the company to reply to the
plea and take issue as to the matters of fact therein alleged.
74 Fed. Rep. 585. The company having declined to avail itself of this privilege, the Circuit Court ordered the bill to be
dismissed. Whereupon the railroad company appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the decree of the Circuit Court and remanded the case for further proceedings. 87
Fed. Rep. 970. The case coming on again for hearing a decree
was rendered for the plaintiff; another appeal taken to the.
Court of Appeals, and the decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.
XM. .faxwell Evarts for the Railroad Company. .M. .
E. Payson was on his brief.
r. Josep7 H. Call for Groeck, submitted on his brief.
AER.

JusTin-. BgowN stated the case and delivered the opinion

of the court.
This case resembles the one just decided in all its essential
particulars and is controlled by it.
The decrees of both courts are therefore,
Reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for the
Southern .Districtof Californiawith directions to dismiss
the hill.

