UNITED STATES TRUST CO. v. NEW MEXICO.

535

Syllabus.

It is also unnecessary to determine the rights of the Southern
Pacific to lands outside the limits of conflict. It having been
adjudged that the Southern Pacific, by the construction of its
road eastward from Mojave to Needles, became entitled to the
benefit of the grant made by the eighteenth section of the act
of 1866, the adjustment of the grant is properly to be had in
the Land Department, subject, of course, if necessary, to further contests in the courts.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, afflrming the decree of the Circuit Courtfor the Southern,District qf Californiawill be reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to enter a
decree .quietingthe title of the United States to an equal,undivided moiety in all alternate sections within the place or
grantedlimits of the Atlantic and Pa(ific in California,so
far as those limits conflict with the like limits of the Southern
Pacific, excecting therefrom those lands in respect to which
there has been some prior adjudication,and to dismiss the
bill as to all other lands withoutprejudice to any future suit
or action.

UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY v. NEW MEXICO.
NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY.
CROSS APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICo.
Hos. 181, 182. Argued October 30, 31, 190.-Decided January 6, 1902.
An agreed statement of facts may be the equivalent of a special verdict, or
a finding of facts upon which a reviewing court may declare the applicable law if said agreed statement is of the ultimate facts, but if it be
merely a recital of testimony, or evidential fact, it brings nothing before
an appellate court for consideration.
The certified statement of facts is insufficient, and presents nothing for examination.
There was no invalidity in the facts of additional assessments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
The filing of the intervening petition and the final adjudication thereon
were in time.
That the receiver had been discharged before final proceedings were had,
is immaterial.
The Santa F6 Company cannot claim that it was misled, in any way, as to
its liability for these taxes.
No order was necessary for retaking possession.
The property was sufficiently described in the decree, and it must be assumed that the testimony warranted the description.
Until there was an identification of the property subject to taxation, and a
determination of the amount of taxes due, it would be inequitable to
charge penalties for non-payment.
There was no error in refusing interest prior to the decree.

ON July 16, 1895, the United States Trust Company of New
York filed its bill in the office of the clerk of the district court
of the second judicial district of the Territory of New Mexico,
praying foreclosure of a mortgage given by the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company. On January 10, 1896, Charles W.
Smith was appointed receiver. On April 10, 1896, a decree of
foreclosure was entered. The decree provided that the purchaser or purchasers, and his or their successors or assigns,
should, as part consideration and purchase price of the property purchased and in addition to the sum bid, pay "any indebtedness and obligations or liabilities which shall have been legally contracted or incurred by the receiver before delivery or
possession of the property sold, including the receiver's notes
or certificates hereinbefore mentioned, and also any indebtedness and liabilities contracted or incurred by said defendant
railroad company in the operation of its railroad prior to the
appointment of receivers, which are prior in lien to said first
mortgage, and which shall not be paid or satisfied out of the
income of the property in the hands of the receiver, upon the
court adjudging the same to be prior in lien to said mortgage
and directing payment thereof, provided that suit be brought
for the enforcement of such indebtedness, obligation or liability
within the period allowed by any statute of limitations applicable thereto.
"Any such claim for indebtedness, obligations or liabilities
which shall not have been presented in writing to the receiver

UNITED STATES TRUST CO. v. NEW MEXICO.

537

Statement of the Case.

or filed with the clerk of this court prior to the time of delivery of possession of such property, shall be presented for allowance and filed within six months after the first publication
by the receiver of a notice to the holders of such claims to present the same for allowance. The receiver shall publish such
notice at least once a week for the period of six weeks in one
or more newspapers published in Albuquerque, New Mexico;
Prescott, Arizona, and Los Angeles, California, upon the request of any purchaser or purchasers after delivery of the possession of the property to them, and any such claims, which
shall not be so presented or filed within the period of six
months after the first publication of such notice, shall not be
enforceable against said receiver nor against the property sold
nor against the purchaser or purchasers, his or their successors
or assigns."
On May 3, 1897, a sale was made under the decree to A. F.
Walker, R. Somers Hayes and Victor Morawetz. On May 4 the
sale was confirmed. The order of confirmation contained substantially the same provisions respecting payment of obligations
as the decree, and added "including also any taxes which may
finally be adjudged to be a lien upon the property sold under
the decree aforesaid."
According to an affidavit filed in the case this clause was entered at the suggestion of counsel for the Territory, and upon
notice in open court of his intention to present a claim for the
taxes hereinafter referred to. On June 22, 1897, the purchasers
conveyed the property to the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company, and on July 1, 1897, the receiver delivered possession of
the property. On October 4, 1898, he was by order of the
court discharged as receiver. He failed to give the notice required by the decree for the purpose of cutting off claims
against the property, and on application of the Santa F6 Pacific
Railroad Company, the grantee of the purchasers, on December 19, 1898, an order was entered directing the clerk of the
court to publish the notice, and a notice was published that on
or before October 23, 1899, all claims against the receiver must
be presented or they would be barred. On June 10, 1897, after
the confirmation of the sale but while the property was in pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

session of the receiver, the Territory of New Mexico, by leave,
filed an intervening petition, claiming a lien for and payment
by the receiver of certain taxes upon part of the railroad property in the county of Valencia. To this petition the trust company and receiver, on June 23, 1897, filed joint and several
pleas. On the same day, without passing upon the sufficiency
of the pleas, the court ordered the intervening petition dismissed on the ground that the "matters and things therein set
up" were "not sufficient to entitle the said intervening petitioner to the relief sought by its petition." On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory this order of dismissal was affirmed. From such decision' the Territory appealed to this
court, which upon the first hearing affirmed the rulings below,
172 U. S. 171, 186, but on a petition for rehearing reversed the
order and remanded the case for further proceedings. 174 U.
S. 545.
The mandate having been returned and presented to the trial
court on August 4, 1899, proceedings were there had which
culminated on October 5, 1899, in a finding that the Territory
was entitled to a tax lien upon a portion of the railroad property for $74,168.70, and a decree establishing such lien. From
this decree both parties appealed to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, which, on August 23, 1900, modified the decree by
reducing the amount to $61,922.73, and awarding interest at
the rate of six per cent per annum from October 5, 1899, the
date of the decree in the district court. 62 Pac. Rep. 987.
From this decision both parties have appealed to this court.
A statement of facts agreed to by the parties was filed in the
district court, and upon this statement the decree was founded.
This agreed statement contains a narrative of facts, transcripts
of records and the testimony which certain witnesses would
have given if they had been produced and sworn. This statement of facts was incorporated in the record transmitted to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, and is the only portion of the
record showing the facts presented on the hearing in the District Court. After the decision by the Supreme Court of the
Territory, both parties having signified an intention to appeal
to this court, the Territory applied for a statement of facts in

UNITED STATES TRUST CO. v.NEW MEXICO.

539

Opinion of the Court.

accordance with the act of Congress, of date April 7,1874, in
reference to practice in territorial courts and appeals therefrom, 18 Stat. 27, c. 80, which application was resisted by the
counsel for the trust company and the receiver on the ground
that the case had been tried in the court below upon an agreed
statement of facts, whereupon the Supreme Court made this
entry of record:
"Being willing and desirous that the respective parties be
allowed to get their appeals before the Supreme Court of the
United States in such shape as their counsel deem proper, the
court hereby certifies for use upon the appeal of the said The
United States Trust Company of New York and C. W. Smith,
receiver, that this case was tried in the court below upon an
agreed statement of facts, which agreed statement of facts was
made part of the record in the district court and part of the
record upon appeal to this court, and is to be a part of the record
on appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States; that the
said agreed statement sets out the facts of this case which were
heard or considered by this court upon said appeal, and the
same is hereby adopted by this court as its statement of such
facts for use upon the appeal aforesaid without here repeating
the same.
"And the court further certifies for use upon the appeal of
the said Territory of New Mexico, in accordance with the
prayer of the said appellant, the following statement of facts."
Following this was a special statement of facts, certified to
under the hand of the Chief Justice.
2r3. C. N. Sterry for appellants.
Robert Dunlap were on his brief.

Arb. E. D. Henna and Xr.

XrA.F. W. Olany for appellee.
MR. JusTiCE BREWpR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The district court dismissed the intervening petition on the
ground that it presented no claim against the property or the
parties. The reversal by this court of such order is an adjudi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

cation that upon the face of the petition a valid claim was presented, and is conclusive of suchiprimafaievalidity, not merely
against objections which were in fact made but also against
those which might have been made. Cromwell v. Sac County,
94 U. S. 351, 352; .Tesbit v. Riverside Independent District,
144 U. S. 610, 618. We start in this inquiry then with the adjudicated fact that upon the face of the intervening petition
was presented a valid claim for the taxes therein specified.
The case was heard in the district court upon an agreed statement of facts, which was thereafter certified by the Supreme
Court of the Territory as a statement of facts under the act of
April 7, 1874. We have had several occasions to consider the
effect of an agreement of the parties as to the facts. See Tfilson, Receiver &c. v. The Afferchants' Loan & Trust Co. ante,
121, and cases cited in the opinion. An agreed statement of
facts may be the equivalent of a special verdict or a finding of
facts upon which a reviewing court may declare the applicable
law if such agreed statement is of the ultimate facts, but if it
be merely a recital of testimony or evidential facts, it brings
nothing before an appellate court for consideration. The same
rule obtains in cases of appeals from territorial courts under the
act of 1874. That act in terms provides that"On appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a statement of
the facts of the case in the nature of a special verdict, and also
the rulings of the court on the admission or rejection of evidence
when excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court below." Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610; Idaho & Oregon
Land Company v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509.
Tested by the various authorities just cited the certified statement of facts is insufficient, and presents nothing for our examination. This disposes of most of the questions discussed by
counsel.
When the mandate from this court was filed in the district
court, a motion to dismiss and also pleas in abatement and in
bar were successively filed, argued and overruled. We shall
not attempt to notice in detail the various matters presented in
the motion and pleas. It will be sufficient to state our conclusions upon the important questions.

UNITED STATES TRUST CO. v. NEW MEXICO.

541

Opinion of the Court.

There was no invalidity in the fact of additional assessments.
Indeed, the claim in the petition was wholly for taxes based
upon additional assessments for prior years, and when this court
adjudged that that petition upon its face showed a tax claim
against the property, it was an adjudication in favor of the
validity of such additional assessments.
The filing of the intervening petition and the final adjudication thereon were in time. It is true the petition was not filed
until after the sale had been confirmed and the master's deed
executed, and that'by the decree of confirmation the receiver
was directed to then turn over the property to the purchasers.
It may be also conceded as generally true that a retention by
a receiver, after the time for the delivery of the property in his
hands, is as agent of the purchasers. Tery v. TVatkins, 23 How.
469, 474. But the filing of the petition, as well as the mandate
from this court, was within the time expressly named in the
decree, as follows:
"Any such claim for indebtedness, obligations or liabilities
which shall not have been presented in writing to the receiver
or filed with the clerk of this court prior to the time of delivery
of possession of such property, shall be presented for allowance
and filed within six months after the first publication by the
receiver of a notice to the holders of such claims to present the
same for allowance."
Indeed, the petition was filed while the property was still in
the hands of the receiver, and that would seem to bring the
action of the intervenor within the terms of the first clause of
the quotation just made. At any rate everything in the district
court, even its final adjudication, was before October 23, 1899,
the time fixed in the notice for the cutting off of claims against
the property given at the instance of the grantee of the purchasers, to wit, the Santa F6 Pacific Railroad Company. That
the receiver had been discharged before such mandate was filed,
or final proceedings had, is immaterial, as the grantee of the
purchaser (the present owner of the property) had made itself
a party to the record by coming in and praying for the publication of a notice to cut off claims.
Neither can the Santa F6 Company claim that it was misled

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

in any way as to its liability for these taxes, for not only by the
terms of the decree was the sale to be made subject to any
indebtedness that might subsequently be charged against the
property prior in lien to that of the mortgages foreclosed, but
also on the confirmation of the sale and before it took title
from the purchasers at such sale the order specifically included
within the obligations which must be assumed any taxes which
might "finally be adjudged to be a lien upon the property."
No order was necessary for retaking possession. By the
terms of the decree the court, although the actual possession
was surrendered, retained a constructive control which it could
enforce whenever its orders were not complied with, and the
present proceeding was to establish that the property was subject to these taxes. The proceeding was initiated not only
when there was a qualified control, but also an actual possession
of the property, and no subsequent orders of the court put an
end to its jurisdiction to proceed to an inquiry as to the validity
of the tax lien. The reversal of the order of dismissal by this
court reinstated the proceeding in the trial court as of the date
of the order of dismissal. If the decree is not complied with
by the present owners of the property, it may then become
necessary to order a retaking of possession.
While the description in the intervening petition of the property sought to be subjected to the taxes may be indefinite, the
property is sufficiently described in the decree, and it must be
assumed that the testimony warranted the description.
These are all the matters we deem it necessary to notice, and
we are of opinion that in the record, so far as we are at liberty
is disclosed no error prejudicial to the rights of
to examine it,
the appellants.
On its cross appeal the Territory, which had obtained a properly certified statement of facts sufficient for the questions it
presents, contends that it was entitled to recover the amount
of the tax upon 60.7 miles of road, as fixed by the assessments,
whereas the court found that there were only 55.5 miles subject
to taxation, and made the award upon the basis of assessments
upon that extent of road. It insists that the assessments were
conclusive of the amount due because no appeals to correct

UNITED STATES TRUST CO. v. NEW MEXICO.

543

Opinion of the Court.

them were taken, as permitted by law. It further says that in
any event the statement made in the pleas and sworn to by the
solicitor for the trust company and the receiver, "that about
58 miles of said right of way in said county and Territory was
and is through land which was not government land, but which
belonged to private individuals or corporations, and was acquired by the railroad company under and through the right
conferred upon it by said act of Congress," should be held conclusive as to the number of miles subject to taxation. The
trial court found, as stated, that there were 55.5 miles so subject. This finding was approved by the Supreme Court and is
conclusive upon us as to the fact; and if in truth there were
only so many miles of road subject to taxation, it would be inequitable to adjudge a greater liability, for that would be enforcing taxes upon property which was not subject to taxation.
Again, it is contended that the Territory was entitled to a
25 per cent penalty under section 4035 of the Compiled Laws
of New Mexico, 1897, which reads:
"If any person, liable to taxation, shall fail to render a true
list of his property, as required by the preceding three sections,
the assessor shall make out a list of the property of such person, and its value, according to the best information he can
obtain; and such person shall be liable, in addition to the tax
so assessed, to the penalty of twenty-five per cent thereof,
which shall be assessed and collected as a part of the taxes of
such person."
It is enough to say that no such penalty was claimed in the
intervening petition. Penalties are not favored in equity, and
seldom will a chancellor enforce penalties in favor of a party
who does not ask for them. Again, by the terms of the section,
the penalty is to be "assessed and collected as a part of the
taxes," and the record shows no assessment of the penalty.
A final contention is in respect to interest. Section 4066 of
the Compiled Laws provides:
"On the first day of January in each year half of the unpaid
taxes for the year last past, and on the first day of July in each
year, the remaining half of the unpaid taxes for the year last
past,- shall become delinquent and shall draw interest .at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

rate of twenty-five per cent per annum, but the collector shall
continue to receive payments of the same after the first day of
January and July until the day of the sale."
The district court ignored the provisions of this section, and
allowed interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum from the
times the taxes became delinquent in the several years. The
Supreme Court modified this, and allowed interest only from
October 5, 1899, the date of the decision in the district court.
In 1899 the legislature passed-a new statute in reference to
taxes. Chap. 22, p. 47, Laws of New Mexico, 1899. By section 10 of that act section 4066 of the Compiled Laws was in
terms amended, and in lieu of the 25 per cent different and
graded penalties were enforced. By section 34 of that act "the
time for the payment of all taxes now delinquent is hereby extended to May 1, 1899, and when the same may be in litigation
at the date of the passage of this act until such litigation be
determined." Other provisions of this section, taken in connection with a statute passed at the same session of the legislature,
(chap. 52, p. 106, Laws, 1899,) referred to by the Supreme
Court of the Territory in its opinion, may render it doubtful
whether the legislature intended to remove the penalty of 25
per cent interest in respect to this property; for such interest
in tax proceedings is in the nature of a penalty. Yet, irrespective of this statutory question, we are of opinion that there was
no error in refusing to enforce this charge against the property.
The assessment was made in gross upon 60.7 miles of road,
without specification of the particular miles other than that
they were "embraced within said right of way where it runs
over land which was held in private ownership at the time of
the grant of said right of way to said railroad company." The
finding of the court shows that no such length of railroad was
subject to taxation, but only 55.5 miles, and those were specified and described. The owners of the road were, therefore,
justified in contesting their liability to such assessment and
taxation in gross, and until there was an identification of the
property subject to taxation, and a determination of the amount
of taxes due, it would be inequitable to charge penalties for
non-payment. Lake Shore & .AXichigan Southern Railway Co.

Ex Parte WILDER'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

545

Statement of the Case.

v. People, 46 Mich. 193, 211; County of Redwood v. Winona
and St. Peter Land Co., 40 Minn. 512, 522. This is not a suit
brought by a property holder to restrain the collection of taxes,
in which case it would be incumbent upon him to pay, or tender, the amount conceded to be due, but one in which the authorities are the moving party seeking to collect taxes, and in
which the liability in toto is denied, and the property subject
to taxation not fully identified or the amount of taxes determined until the final judgment. Viewing the proceedings
from an equitable standpoint, we see no error in refusing interest prior to the decree.
The decree qf the Supreme Court of NVew 2exico is afparty to pay the costs of its appealto this court.
fwrmed, eacl&

Ew parte WILDER'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MIANDAMUS.
No. 9. Original. Submitted Iay 13, 1901.- Decided January 6,1902.
A decree in admiralty in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii, in
a case pending in the courts of the Republic of Hawaii at the time of its
annexation to the United States, is not subject to an appeal to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

THIs was a petition by the Wilder's Steamship Company, a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Territory of Hawaii, for a writ of mandamus to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to entertain an
appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii.
On December 27, 1899, the steamer Claudine, one of the petitioner's steamships, came into collision with the barkentine William Carson. On February 5, 1900, the owners of the William
Carson and of her cargo filed a libel in admiralty against the
steamship company in the circuit court of the first judicial circuit of the Republic of Hawaii. On May 7, 1900, that court
VOL.

cLxxxm-35

