DINSMORE v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY &c. 115
Statement of the Case.

other compames or corporations engaged in like business in
Kansas, and thereby denies to that company the equal protection of the laws. Upon the question whether the statute is unconstitutional upon the further ground that, by its necessary
operation, it will deprive that company of its property without
due process of law, we deem it unnecessary to express an opinion.

DINSMORE v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY AND
GEORGIA RAILROAD COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 136. Argued Febuary 25,1901.-Decided November 18, 1901.
This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia, by citizens of New York against the Southern Express Company, a corporation of Georgia, and the Railroad Commission of that State, to prevent the company from applying any of its
moneys to meet the requirements of the War Revenue Act of June 13,
1898, in relation to adhesive stamps to be placed on bills of lading, etc.
The Circuit Court having enjoined the commission from proceedings,
appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed that
decree, and ordered the case to be dismissed. The case was then brought
to this court and submitted here on February 25,1901. On the 2d of March,
1901, an act was passed, (to take effect July 1, 1901), excluding express
companies from the operation of the War Revenue Act of 1898. Held:
(1) That no actual controversy now remains or can arise between the
parties.
(2) That as the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals, directing the dismissal of the suit, accomplishes a result that is appropriate in view
of the act of 1901, this court need not consider the grounds upon
which the court below proceeded, nor any of the questions determined by it or by the Circuit Court, and that the judgment must
be affirmed without costs in this court.

TiE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-1 r. Wi=llia
more.

Z X?1Iker and 1r. Frank H.
H tkiller for Dins-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr.Joseph f. Terrell for the Railroad Commissioners.
.iir. -FlemingG. JDu Bignon, filed a brief for the Southern
Express Company.
MR.

JUSTICE HARL"A

delivered the opinion of the court.

William B. Dinsmore and others, citizens of New Yorksome of them being executors and trustees under the will of
the late William B. Dinsmore of that State-brought this action on the 17th day of April, 1897, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Georgia against the
Southern Express Company, a corporation of Georgia, having
its principal place of business in that State, and also against L.
N. Trammell, Thomas C. Crenshaw and Spencer R. Atkinson,
constituting the Railroad Commission of Georgia, and Joseph
M. Terrell, Attorney General of Georgia, the individual defendants being citizens of Georgia.
The plaintiffs sued as owners and holders of shares of stock
in the defendant express company, and sought a decree that
would prevent the application by that corporation of any of
its moneys to meet the requirement of the War Revenue Act
of June 13, 1898, c. 448, in relation to adhesive stamps to be
placed upon bills of lading, manifests or other evidences of the
receipt of goods for carriage or transportation.
The portion of that act to which the bill referred is the following:
"EXPRESS AND FREIGHT: It shall be the duty of every railroad or steamboat company, carrier, express company, or corporation or person whose occupation is to act as such, to issue
to the shipper or consignor, or his agent, or person from whom
any goods are accepted for transportation, a bill of lading, manifest or other evidence of receipt and forwarding for each shipment received for carriage and transportation, whether in bulk
or in boxes, bales, packages, bundles, or not so enclosed or included; and there shall be duly attached and cancelled, as is in
this act provided, to each of said bills of lading, manifests or
other memorandum, and to each duplicate thereof, a stamp of

DINSMORE v. SOUTHERN -EXPRESS COMPANY &c. 117
Opinion of the Court.

the value 6f one cent: Provided, that but one bill of lading
shall be required on bundles or packages of newspapers when
inclosed in one general bundle at the time of shipment. Any
failure to issue such a bill of lading, manifest or other memorandum, as herein provided, shall subject such railroad or steamboat company, carrier, express company, or corporation or person to a penalty of fifty dollars for each offence, and no such
bill of lading, manifest or other memorandum shall be used in
evidence unless it shall be duly stamped as aforesaid." 30 Stat.
448, 459.
After the passage of the above act complaint was made by
citizens of Georgia to the Railroad Commission of that State
to the effect that the defendant express company required
shippers or consignors to supply the requisite stamps for
bills of lading or receipts given to them. The Commission
thereupon, July 11, 1898, ordered that the Southern Express
Company appear before it on the 18th day of July, 1898,
"then and there to show cause, if any it can, why it should
not be held to have violated the rules and regulations of this
Commission by the exactions or overcharges, as aforesaid, and
why suit should not be instituted against it in every case of
such overcharges for the recovery of the penalty provided by
law for such illegal act."
The company appeared and denied the jurisdiction of the
Commission. But on August 2, 1898, the Commission, after
hearing the parties, ordered that the required stamp be supplied by the express company, and not by shippers in whole or
in part.
Appropriate allegations having been made to show that the
suit was not a collusive one to confer on a court of the United
States jurisdiction of the case, of which it would not otherwise have cognizance, the relief asked wasThat it be adjudged and decreed that the order of the Railroad Commission of the State of Georgia of August 2, 1898,
requiring the express company to pay the amount of the war
revenue tax on business from one point to another in the State
without endeavoring to collect the same from shippers, or requiring them to make the payment thereof before the issuing

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

of receipts or bills of lading, was unconstitutional, null and
void; that the express company, its officers and agents be restrained from voluntarily complying with the order of the
Commission of August 2, 1898, and paying such tax; that the
Attorney General of the State be restrained from instituting
any suit against the express company for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the above order of the Railroad
Commission; that a perpetual injunction, of the same purport,
tenor and effect be granted to complainants; and that the plaintiffs have such other and further relief in the premises as the
nature of the case required and to a court of equity might
seem meet.
The Railroad Commissioners and the Attorney General of
the State severally demurred to the bill. The case having
been argued upon the demurrers, Judge Speer delivered an
opinion which is reported in 92 Fed. Rep. '714.
That opinion was accompanied by the following order, entered
MNarch 7, 1899: "It is now upon consideration ordered, adjudged and decreed that the prayer that the Southern Express
Company be enjoined from voluntarily paying the war-stamp
tax in question be, and the same is hereby, denied; ordered,
adjudged and decreed further that the defendants, the Railroad
Commission of Georgia, and each member thereof, to wit, the
individual defendants, Leander N. Trammell, Thomas C. Crenshaw, Jr., and Spencer R. Atkinson, be, and the same are hereby,
enjoined from any and all order, direction, action or legal steps
instituting or tending to institute, and from any and all proceedings for the recovery of the penalties named in the statute
of Georgia in that behalf to enforce compliance with its said
order against the Southern Express Company, its officers or
agents, as threatened in the order of said commission, dated
August 2, 1898, for the reason that said order is null and void,
and said commission has no jurisdiction to adjudge and designate
the party who shall pay said tax." The court in its opinion
said: "It is not deemed necessary to enjoin the Attorney General, for it is presumed that the eminent lawyer, who is the
official head of the bar of the State, will, without such injunction, accord all appropriate respect to the decision of the court."

DINSMORE v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY &c. 119
Opinion of the Court.

Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the decree of
the Circuit Court was reversed, June 7,1900, with directions
to dismiss the case, Judge McCormick delivering the opinion
of the court, Judge Shelby dissenting. 102 Fed Rep. 794.
The case was thereupon brought to this court upon writ of
certiorari, and was submitted for decision at the last term.
After the submission of the case in this court the above part
of the War Revenue Act of 1898 relating to stamps to be attached to bills of lading, manifests, etc., was amended in important particulars by an act of Congress approved March 2,
1901, c. 806. One amendment, which took effect on and after
July 1, 1901, provided that the above part of the act of 1898
should be amended to read as follows:
"FREIGHT: It shall be the duty of every railroad or steamboat company, carrier or corporation, or person whose occupation is to act as such, except _persons, companies or corporations
business, to issue
engaged in carrying on a local or other express

to the shipper or consignor, or his agent, or person from whom.
any goods are accepted for transportation, a bill of lading,
manifest or other evidence of receipt and forwarding for each
shipment received for carriage and transportation, whether in
bulk or in boxes, bales, packages, bundles, or not so inclosed or
included; and there shall be duly attached and cancelled, as is
in this act provided, to each of said bills of lading, manifest or
other memorandum, and to each duplicate thereof, a stamp of
'ovided, That but one bill of lading
the value of one cent:
or packages of newspapers when
bundles
on
shall be required
at the time of shipment. Any
bundle
inclosed in one general
manifest or other memolading,
of
failure to issue such a bill
such railroad or
subject
randum, as herein provided, shall
person to a penor
steamboat company, carrier or corporation,
bill of lading,
such
alty of fifty dollars for each offence, and no
manifest or other memorandum shall be used in evidence unless
it shall be duly stamped as aforesaid." 31 Stat. 938, 945.
This change in the law renders it unnecessary to consider
any of the important questions determined in the Circuit Court
and Circuit Court of Appeals under the act of 1898. The object of this suit was to prevent the enforcement of the order of

OCTOBER TERe, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the Railroad Commission based upon its construction of that
act. But whatever might be now held as to the meaning and
scope of the act of 1898 as applied to express companies, the
amendatory statute of 1901, in declaring what companies, corporations and persons shall attach the required stamp to bills
of lading, manifests and receipts for goods or other property to
be transported, distinctly excludes express companies. So that
no actual controversy now remains or can arise between the
parties. The plaintiffs do not need any relief, because the act
of 1901 accomplishes the result they wished.
Although this cause was determined in the Circuit Court of
Appeals and was submitted here prior to July 1, 1901, our judgment must have some reference to the act of 1901. In United
States v. Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103, 109, the Chief Justice,
delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It is in general true
that the province of an appellate court is only to inquire whether
a judgment when rendered was erroneous or not. But if, subsequent to the judgment, and before the decision of the appellate court, a law intervenes and positively changes the rule
which governs, the law must be obeyed, or its obligation denied.
If the law be constitutional, and of that no doubt in the present
case has been expressed, I know of no court which can contest
its obligation."
Xills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651, 653; -New
Orleans Flour I1spector v. Glover, 160 TT. S. 170; Same v.
Same, 161 U. S. 101.
If the cause had not been submitted in the Circuit Court of
Appeals until after the act of 1901 took effect, that court, we
apprehend, would have dismissed the suit upon the ground that
by the operation of that legislation the whole subject-matter
of litigation had disappeared and that the order of the Railroad
Commission, even if orignally valid, ceased to have any effect.
The question whether the express company or the shipper was
required by the act of 1898 to furnish the required stamp, as
well as the question whether the Railroad Commission had any
power to make the order of which complaint is made, would
thus have become immaterial, and the dismissal of the suit
would have resulted without any reference to the merits of the
case as affected by the act of 1898.

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

121

Opinion of the Court. -

As the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals directing the
dismissal of the suit accomplishes a result that is appropriate
in view of the act of 1901, we need not consider the grounds
upon which that court proceeded, or any of the questions determined by it or by the Circuit Court, and
The judgment must be aftled without costs in this court, and
it is so ordered.

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO. OF CHI-

CAGO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued October 29, 30,1901.-Decided December 2,1901.

An agreed statement of facts which is so defective as to present, in addition
to certain ultimate facts, other and evidential facts upon which a material
ultimate fact might have been but which was not agreed upon or found,
cannot be regarded as a substantial compliance with the requirements of
Rev. Stat. ยง 649 and of Rev. Stat. ยง 700.

THE statement of facts will be found in the opinion of the
court.
.r. Delevan A. Holmes for plaintiff in error. Xr. T. E.
7ason was on his brief.
XMr. John V. Jewett for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PEKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brings this case here to review a judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, 98 Fed. Rep. 688, affirming a judgment of the
District Court of Illinois in favor of the defendant. The plaintiff in error is the receiver of the First National Bank of Helena,

