OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

the policies non-forfeitable for the period of thirteen months,
and inasmuch as the death of MoMaster took place within that
period, the alleged forfeiture furnished no defence to the action.
The judgment qf the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and
the cause is remanded to the latter court with a direction to
enter judgment for plaintiff in accordance with the eighteenthjinding, with interests and costs.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

MITCHELL v. POTOMAC INSURANCE COMPANq-Y.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 51. Argued October 23, 24, 1901.-Decided November 11, 1901.

The Potomac Company insured Mitchell in a sum not exceeding five thousand dollars on his stock of stoves and their findings, tins and tinware,
tools of trade, etc., kept for sale in a first-class retail stove and tin store
in Georgetown, D. C., with a privilege granted to keep not more than five
barrels of gasoline or other oil or vapor. The policy also contained the
following provisions: "It being covenanted as conditions of this contract
that this company

.

.

.

shall not be liable

.

.

.

for loss caused

by lightning or explosions of any kind unless fire ensues, and then for
the loss or damage by fire only." " Or if gunpowder, phosphorus, naphtha, benzine, or crude earth or coal oils are kept on the premises, or if
camphene, burning fluid, or refined coal or earth oils are kept for sale,
stored or used on the premises, in quantities exceeding one barrel at any
one time without written consent, or if the risk be increased by any means
of the assured, this policy shall be void." An
within the control . .
extra premium was charged for this gasoline privilege. A fire took place
in which the damage to the insured stock amounted to $4568.50. This fire
was due to an explosion which caused the falling of the building and the
crushing of the stock. Mitchell claimed that there was evidence of a fire
in the back cellar which caused that explosion, and that the explosion

MITCHELL v. POTOMAC INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.
was therefore but an incident in the progress of the fire, and that the
company was therefore liable on the policy. The court instructed the
jury that if there existed upon the premises a fire, and that the explosion,
if there was an explosion, followed as an incident to that fire, then the
loss to the plaintiff would be really occasioned by the fire, for the explosion would be nothing but an incident to fire; but if the explosion were
not an incident to a precedent fire, but was the origin and the direct
cause of the loss, then there was no destruction by fire, and the plaintiff was not entitled to recover anything from the defendant. Held:
(1) That it was not important to inquire whether there was any evidence
tending to prove the existence of the alleged fire in the front cellar because the submission of the question to the jury was all that
the plaintiff could ask, and the verdict negatives its existence.
(2) That there was no evidence of any fire in the back cellar preceding
the lighting of the match in the front cellar.
(3) That the instructions in regard to gasoline as more fully set forth in
the opinion of this court were correct.
The court further charged the jury: (1) That if the loss was caused solely
by an explosion or ignition of explosive matter, not caused by a precedent fire, the plaintiff cannot recover; (2) that if an explosion occurred
from contact of escaping vapor with a match lighted and held by an employd of the plaintiff, and the loss resulted solely from such explosion,
the verdict must be for the defendant; (3) that a match lighted and held
by an employ6 of the plaintiff coming in contact with vapor and causing
an explosion, is not to be considered as " fire" within the meaning of
the policy. Held, that each of these instructions was correct.
There is no error in the other extracts from the charge set forth in the opinion of this court.

Tim statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.

.1'. Samuel -Maddoxfor plaintiff in error.
3fr. J' Holdsworta Gordon for defendant in error.
MRT. JUsTIcE PE=AM delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error upon a
policy of insurance issued by the defendant. On the trial the
insurance company had a verdict upon which judgment was
entered, and the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
having affirmed it, (16 App. Cas. D. C. 241,) the plaintiff has

brought the case here. The policy was for $5000 on the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff's stock in trade, which was destroyed on September 27,
1896. The property insured was described in the written part
of the policy as follows:
"On his stock of stoves and their findings, tins and tinware,
tools of trade, and such other goods kept for sale in a first-class
retail stove and tin store, situate No. 3108 M street, Georgetown, D. C.
"Privilege granted to keep not more (than) five (5) barrels
of gasoline or other oil or vapor."
The policy also contained the following printed indemnity
clause :
"Against all such immediate loss or damage as may occur
by fire to the property specified, not exceeding the sum insured,
nor the interest of the assured in the property, except as hereinafter provided. . .
In finer print are the following conditions and exceptions
among others:
"It being convenanted as conditions of this contract that this
for loss caused
company . . . shall not be liable . .
ensues, and
fire
unless
by lightning or explosions of any kind
only.
then for the loss or damage by fire
"Or, if gunpowder, phosphorus, naphtha, benzine, or crude
earth or coal oils are kept on the premises, or if camphene,
burning fluid or refined coal or earth oils are kept for sale,
stored or used on the premises, in quantities exceeding one
this
barrel at any one time without written consent,
policy shall be void."
The damage to the insured stock amounted to $4568.50 and
was due to the falling of the building and the crushing of the
stock as hereafter detailed. The defendant denied liability on
the ground that the falling of the building and injury to the
stock had been caused solely by explosion, no fire ensuing, and
was therefore excepted from the policy.
An extra premium was charged for the.gasoline privilege.
The plaintiff in error conducted a business at 3108 M street,
Georgetown, D. C., in a two-story-and-attic brick structure, his
stock consisting of stoves and tinware, and he did besides a
general repairing business. There was a cellar under the build-

MITCHELL v. POTOMAC INSURANOE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ing divided into two compartments by a division, with room
for a doorway, but there was no door between the divisions.
The gasoline which the insurance policy permitted the plaintiff
to keep was stored in the cellar in a tank underneath the back
cellar floor. Customers were supplied with gasoline from a
pump which was operated in the back of the store above the
cellar where the gasoline tank was. There was no gas jet in
the cellar, and no artificial lighting of any kind. When near
the door one could see without the use of a match, or candle,
or any other light, but when seven or eight feet away it was
necessary to have artificial light of some kind. In the front
cellar stove castings and brick, surplus stoves and ranges were
kept. Along the sides shelving was arranged upon which brick
and castings were put. No trouble had been experienced with
gasoline vapor on account of the furnace which was in the cellar, or from matches or candles which were used to light persons
about. There was no fire in the furnace at the time of the loss.
Frequently half a dozen candles were around on the floor when
work was to be done. The back cellar was used for the same
purpose as the front cellar, except that stoves were not put in
there; it was lighted only by a small window looking out into
the alley. Matches and candles were used in the back cellar as
in the front. When the workmen found what they were looking for, it was customary to drop these charred matches upon
the floor, or put them on the stoves or castings.
The clerk who went into the cellar on the occasion testified
in regard to the disaster as follows:
"It was about one o'clock in the day. When I went down
there was no odor of gasoline in the cellar. I know the odor,
which is pungent, unmistakable and easily detected. The particular piece of casting that was wanted was in a tier of bins in
the shelving on the east side of the main cellar and about fifteen
feet from the back cellar. It was so far from the door that I
could not see it without the use of a light. On reaching the
tier I struck a match and looked in the particular place where
we were accustomed to keep this kind of casting; but it was
not there. As I had been away from the store three weeks previous and did not know to what bin in the shelves they had been.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

moved, I started looking from one to the other, beginning near
the top. The first match burned my fingers, and I dropped it
and lit another, with which I continued my search down, when
all of a sudden the place was enveloped or filled with this blue
flame. It was a bluish color, and I knew at once that it was
gasoline vapor that had ignited. I knew it at once because I
remembered the appearance of it-had seen it before. Where
it started I do not know; but the first I knew of it, it was all
over the place and I was in the midst of it. I don't know distinctly whether the blaze started at my hand or not. When I
became conscious of the fact that there were flames there, it
was all over the place; not only where I was, but all over the
cellar. I noticed it first all over the cellar; there was no noise
connected with it, except the sh-sh-sh like the swish of a whip
or anything of that kind. I could see it play around. I became
unconscious, either from the burns or from the walls falling on
me, I don't know which. The first thing I noticed on recovering consciousness was the fact that the back cellar was full of
fire, and, knowing that the gasoline was in that part of the cellar,
I used every effort to get as far away from it as possible. I
crawled towards the front, where I was pulled through the
front wall. I had been protected from the debris by the way
in which the joist fell. They broke in the middle, one end remaining on the east wall and the other resting on the floor,
thus leaving a little angle at the side. This condition existed
all the way to the front of the building. It was very darklike the darkness of Egypt. The brick work was shattered in
front and the house had fallen down."
Plaintiff in error claimed on the trial that there was evidence
of a fire in the back cellar preceding the explosion and causing
it, and that the explosion was therefore but an incident in the
progress of the fire, and the company was therefore liable on
the policy. He made the following request to charge the jury:
"If the jury find from the evidence that on the 28th day of
September, 1896, at or before the time the witness Oliver went
into the cellar of the plaintiff's premises, as described by him,
a fire originating in accidental or other causes was in progress
in the back cellar of said premises, and that afterward and

MITCHELL v. POTOMAC INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

while such fire was in progress the gas or vapor generated by
the evaporation of liquid gasoline came in contact with the
flames of such fire and exploded and prostrated portions of the
building in which the insured commodities were stored, then
the damage done to such commodities by reason of such prostration was occasioned by fire within the meaning of the policy,
and the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this action."
The court refused the request, and the exception to such refusal brings up the first question argued by the plaintiff in
error.
In the course of the charge it was stated as follows:
"The court has granted an instruction to this effect, that if
there existed upon the premises a fire, and that the explosion,
if there was an explosion, followed as an incident to that fire,
then the loss to the plaintiff would be really occasioned by the
fire, but if the explosion were not an incident to a precedent
fire, but was the origin and the direct cause of the loss, then
there was no destruction by fire, and the plaintiff is not-entitled to recover anything from the defendant."
It is not important to inquire whether there was in truth any
evidence tending to prove the existence of a fire in the front
cellar preceding the lighting of the match therein, because the
submission of the question to the jury was all that the plaintiff
could ask, and the verdict negatives its existence. But the
court drew a distinction between the front and rear cellar, and
refused the foregoing request by the plaintiff's counsel, for the
reason given, as follows:
"The court was asked to instruct you with reference to the
theory that there was a precedent fire in the back room. The
court felt obliged to refuse such an instruction, because there
is no testimony in the case that would justify the jury in reaching the conclusion that before Mr. Oliver struck that match
there existed a fire in the rear portion of that cellar. There is
no testimony and no evidence of the fact."
The court also charged as follows:
"It is not contended that any fire followed the explosion,
and that any portion of this stock in trade was injured by a
subsequent fire, but it is claimed by the plaintiff that there ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

isted a precedent fire, and that the explosion was an incident
of that precedent fire. The court has granted an instruction
to the effect that if there existed upon the premises a fire, and
that the explosion, if there was an explosion, followed as an
incident to that fire, then the loss to the plaintiff would be
really occasioned by the fire, for the explosion would be nothing but an incident to fire."
The court also charged:
"Now the question for you to determine in the light of all
this testimony and your own knowledge and experience is this:
Was the falling of this building and the injury to the stock in
trade contained within it due to an explosion or not? If it was,
and there was no antecedent fire, the verdict should be for the defendant. If you find in the case evidence that there was an antecedent fire, which did not amount to an explosion, but which was
simply rapid combustion, which resulted in a collapse of the building and not in an explosion, then it is conceded that the plaintiff
is entitled to recover such damages as you shall find that he
sustained. If you find a verdict for the plaintiff, you ought to
give him interest on the amount to which he is entitled from
the 19th day of January, 1897. You may take the case, gentlemen."
With relation to the denial of the request of plaintiff's counsel, the Court of Appeals, in the opinion delivered'by Mr. Justice Shepard, said:
"The instruction undertook to direct the special attention of
the jury, first, to the probable existence of an accidental fire in
the rear cellar before the entry of the witness Oliver into the
front one, and second, to the probable ignition of the vapor in
the front cellar by that fire instead of by the match lighted by
Oliver immediately before the explosion, which took place in
the front cellar. Neither of these inferences seemed to have
any reasonable foundation in the evidence, and the second is
directly opposed to the testimony of Oliver, upon which the
plaintiff's case rests. Had this been the only issue in the case
the court might, without error, have directed a verdict for the
defendant. Gunther v. Liverpool & London & Globe Ins. Co.,
134 U. S. 110, 116.,' And also Griggsv. HEouston, 104 U. S. 553.

MITCHELL v. POTOMAC INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

A careful perusal of the evidence in the case brings us to
the same conclusion. There was no evidence of any fire in the
back cellar preceding the lighting of the match in the front
cellar, and it would have been error to submit such a question
to the jury for that reason. The request was therefore properly
denied.
It is also contended that gasoline being kept for sale by the
insured in his store, was covered by the written language of
the policy, which included not only his stock of stoves, etc., but
also "such other goods kept for sale in a first-class retail stove
and tin store, situate No. 3108 IM street, Georgetown, D. C."
It is then argued that as gasoline is in its nature explosive, the
risk arising therefrom was covered by the policy, and the loss
occasioned thereby was one for which the company was liable,
and if the printed provisions of the policy provided otherwise
they are inconsistent with the written part of the policy, and
the latter must prevail. This construction would render unnecessary the privilege to keep not more than five barrels of
gasoline, which is also written in the policy. We think the
construction contended for is inadmissible.
The language of the policy did not insure the plaintiff upon
any property which he might choose to keep and sell in his
store. The language means not only the particular property
specifically described, but such other goods as are kept for sale
in a first-class retail stove and tin store, which in this case was
situated as stated in the policy. Identifying the store by naming its situation does not alter the significance of the language,
in effect, prescribing that the goods are such as are kept for sale
in a first-class retail stove and tin store. The "other goods"
must be such as are ordinarily, usually, customarily kept for
sale in a first-class retail stove and tin store, and not such other
classes of property as the insured may then or at any time choose
to keep for sale in this particular store. This we think is the
plain meaning of the language. The cases cited in the opinion
delivered in the Court of Appeals make this plain, if anything
more than the language itself were wanted for that purpose.
Unless gasoline is such a commodity as is usually kept for sale
in a.first-class retail stove and tin store, it would not be included
VOL. oLXXXI---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

in that language. There is no evidence showing that gasoline
is thus usually kept, and without evidence to that effect it cannot be presumed that such is the fact. The language which
immediately follows, "privilege granted to keep not more than
five barrels of gasoline or other oil or vapor," also tends to show
quite conclusively that the parties did not consider the description already given of the property insured, as permitting the
keeping and selling of gasoline, for otherwise the privilege
would not have been necessary to be inserted in the policy.
Taking the written and the printed language of the policy
together, there is no inconsistency therein. The extent and
limits of the insurance are, as stated in the printed provision,
"against all such immediate loss or damage as may occur by
fire to the property specified, not exceeding the sum insured;"
and there is the further condition, "it being covenanted as conditions of this contract that this company . . . shall not
be liable . . . for loss caused by lightning or explosions of

any kind unless fire ensues, and then for the loss or damage by
fire only."
The written part insured the plaintiff on property therein
described, which does not cover gasoline in the description of
"other goods." What the insurance is and its limits are stated
in the printed portions. Taking all the language together, the
written and the printed, the contract is plain and unambiguous,
without inconsistency or contradiction between the written and
printed portions thereof, and therefore there is no room for the
application of the principle that where such inconsistency or
ambiguity exists the written portion prevails.
In regard to the keeping of gasoline for sale and the reason
for writing the privilege to so keep it in the policy, and the
effect thereof, the court charged as follows:
"You hardly need be told, I think, as ordinary business men,
that a privilege to keep something does not bring the privileged
article within the articles insured by the policy. Suppose that
clause read 'privilege to keep not more than fifty pounds of
gunpowder,' on the premises, and the party insured was keeping a dry goods store or a drug store, would it be contended by
any sensible man that the gunpowder was an article insured

MITCHELL v. POTOMAC INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

by the policy? Clearly this privilege to keep was inserted to
offset the forfeiture of the policy if the provision contained in
this policy were violated without this privilege, and that provision is this:
"If gunpowder, phosphorus, naphtha, benzine or crude earth
or coal oil are kept on the premises, or if camphene, burning
fluid or refined coal or earth oils are kept for sale, stored or
used on the premises in quantities exceeding one barrel at any
one time, without written consent of the company, the policy
should be void.
"So that if these five barrels of gasoline were kept upon those
premises without the written consent of the company, the policy would have been absolutely forfeited and the plaintiff would
not have been entitled to recover damages for loss if the whole
stock had been destroyed by fire. So it must be believed
that the plaintiff, when he took his policy, fully understood
what its terms and provisions were. That is the reason that
he asked for, received and paid for this privilege of keeping not
more than five barrels of gasoline on the premises. I suppose
that inasmuch as keeping such inflammable material upon the
premises would naturally increase the risk of loss, the insurance
company would require the payment of a larger premium than
it would have required if such inflammable material were not
kept on the premises."
We regard this part of the charge as unexceptionable.
The plaintiff also claims that error was committed by the
court in charging the jury, at the request of the defendant, in
substance:
(1) If the loss was caused solely by an explosion or ignition
of explosive matter, not caused by a precedent fire, the plaintiff
cannot recover.
(2) If an explosion occurred from contact of escaping vapor
with a match lighted and held by an employ6 of the plaintiff,
and the loss resulted solely from such explosion, the verdict
must be for the defendant.
(3) A match lighted and held by an employ6 of the plaintiff
coming in contact with the vapor and causing an explosion is
not to be considered as "fire" within the meaning of the
policy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

We think each instruction was correct.

A loss occurring

solely from an explosion not resulting from a preceding fire is
covered by the exception in the policy. And an explosion
which occurred from contact of escaping vapor with a lighted
match, under the facts stated, would also plainly come within
the exception of the policy. Also a lighted match is not a
"fire" when used as stated in the above third clause of the
charge. United Life &c. Insurance Company v. Foote, 22
Ohio St. 340; Transatlantic Fire Insurance Company v. Dorsey, 56 Maryland, 70; Briggs v. Insurance Company, 53 N. Y.
446, 449.
Exception was also taken to the charge of the judge explaining the meaning of the word "explosion" as used in the policy. Upon that the court charged:
"Now, gentlemen of the jury, when the word ' explosion'
was used in the policy, the company as ordinary men-at least
its officers were ordinary men and not, as I assume, scientific
men-and the party insured an ordinary man, are presumed
to have understood the word 'explosion' in its ordinary and
popular sense. Not what some scientific man would define to
be an .explosion, but what the ordinary man would understand
to be meant by that word. And, after all, the question here
being explosion or non-explosion, is, what do you, as ordinary
men, understand occurred at that time in the light of all the
testimony ? Was it an explosion in the ordinary and popular
sense of that word, or was it a fire with a subsequent explosion
or a subsequent collapse of the building as a sequence to the

fire '."
The plaintiff claimed there was some evidence that the collapse of the building was the result, not of explosion, but of
rapid combustion of the gasoline vapor, which first expanded
the atmosphere of the cellar, and then, through cooling, produced a vacuum that caused the crushing in of the floor by the
unresisted pressure of the external atmosphere.
With reference to that contention the court charged:
"If the jury believe from the evidence that on the 28th day
of September, 1896, the commodities of the plaintiff mentioned
in the policy of insurance, offered in evidence, were destroyed

MISSOURI &c. R'Y CO. v. MISSOURI R'D &c. COMRS.

53

Syllabus.

or injured or lost in the manner testified to by the plaintiff's
witnesses, and if they further find from the evidence that such
loss or damage was the result of fire not having its origin or
commencement by or with an explosion of any sort, but by the
accidental combustion of any non-explosive substance in the
cellar of plaintiff's premises, described in said policy, and that
in consequence of such combustion the front building erected
on said premises was prostrated, and the loss or damage to the
property insured was the immediate result thereof, then the
loss was occasioned by fire within the meaning of the policy,
and the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this action."
We think these two extracts from the charge of the judge
fairly presented the question to the jury, and the exception to
the charge is not available.
We find no error in the case, and the judgment of the Court

of Appeals is
A.imed.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. MISSOURI RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE
COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 11. Argued and submitted October 16, 1901.-Decided November 11, 1901.

When a state court refuses permission to remove to a Federal court a case
pending before the state court, and the Federal court orders its removal,
this court has jurisdiction to determine whether there was error on the
part of the state court in retaining the case.
The plaintiffs were citizens of the State of Missouri, in which this action
was brought. The railway company was a citizen of the State of Kansas.
On the face of record there was therefore diverse citizenship, authorizing, on proper proceedings being taken to bring it about, the removal of
the action from the state court to the Federal court; and the State of
Missouri is not shown to have such an interest in the result as would
warrant the conclusion that the State was the real party in interest, and
the consequent refusal of the motion for removal.

