U. S. REPAIR &c. CO. v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT CO. 591
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES REPAIR AND GUARANTEE COM-

PANY v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 61. Argued October 28, 29, 1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.

PatentNo. 501,537, for an improved method of repairing asphalt pavements,

which forms the subject of controversy in this suit in this court,was anticipated in invention, by apatent issued in France to Paul Crochet June 11,
1880.
THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

AfX'. -Lysander Hill for petitioner. .A&. Ernest W7ilkison
and M'. William B. Omohundr'o were on his brief.
No appearance for the Asphalt Company.

MR. JUsTICE MoKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was originally brought for the infringements of
three letters patent issued to the petitioner as assignee of Amos
Perkins. The patents were respectively numbered 501,537,
542,349 and 560,599, and were dated respectively 18th July,
1893, 9th July, 1895, and the 19th of May, 1896. The first,
501,537, was for an improved "Method of repairing asphalt
pavements;" the other numbers were for "Improvement in
apparatus for repairing asphalt pavements."
The bill contained the usual allegations of invention and infringement, and prayed anfinjunction.
The answer admitted the issue of the patents, but denied that
Perkins was the original and first inventor of the subject matter
or that the improvements therein disclosed constituted new and
useful inventions within the meaning of the patent laws, or
that said improvements were not known or used in this country,
or had not been patented or described in any printed publication in this or in foreign countries before the alleged invention
thereof by Perkins.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner dismissed the bill as to patent number 54:2,349.
Upon the hearing the Circuit Court sustained the apparatus
patent number 560,599, finding that the Assyrian Asphalt Company had infringed upon that apparatus, and ordered an injunction and a reference for an accounting. The Method patent
number 501,537 was adjudged invalid, and the court said:
"From the evidence in this suit regarding the prior state of
the art, and the argument before me, I find that the term ' asphalt' is not limited in its meaning to the Trinidad deposit, or
the so-called ' American mixture,' but includes as well the bituminous paving material used in France and elsewhere, comprising natural rock asphalt and compositions of bitumen and lime
or sand particles, and that the claims of the Perkins Method
patent are so broad with reference to the application of heat
to the repair of asphalt pavements, that they are anticipated
by the Crochet patent, and are invalid."
The petitioner took an appeal to the Court of Appeals, and
that court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court. The
case was then brought here by a certiorari.
The proceedings here are only concerned with the Method
patent number 501,537. The letters patent describe the invention as follows:
"iMy invention is designed to produce a method whereby the
repairing of asphalt pavements may be quickly and cheaply accomplished and a neater appearing pavement be obtained after
repairing than has heretofore been the case.
"Heretofore in the repairing it has been customary to dig
out with a pick or other instrument the surface material around
the spot to be repaired, sometimes applying heat to the spot to
soften the material so that it may be more easily removed.
When the material has been removed the depression thus made
is thoroughly cleaned and given a coat or dressing of tar. New
material in a heated state has then been placed in the depression and been ironed down and smoothed off in the usual manner of finishing, the tar acting as a solder to hold the new material in place. When completed, however, the line or joint between the old hardened material and the new material has been
plainly discernible and more often there has been more or less of

U. S. REPAIR &c. CO. v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT CO. 593
Opinion of the Court.

a ridge. Again this new block of material, by reason of frost or
from other causes, is frequently torn loose from its soldered connection with the old material, thus necessitating new repairs.
In practicing my invention, however, I subject the spot to be repaired and the surrounding edges to such a degree of heat that
the surface asphalt, not only the exact spot to be repaired but
the surrounding portion, to a greater or less degree, is reduced
to the soft pliable state in which it is originally laid. With a
rake or other suitable instrument it is then agitated and mixed
with enough new material to fill up the spot to be repaired. It
is then subjected to the usual finishing operation of ironing and
burnishing. The heating of the surface may be accomplished
in various ways and by means of various forms of apparatus,
and while I have herein shown but one form for accomplishing
the result, yet I would have it understood that I do not limit
myself to any particular form of apparatus for carrying out my
invention."
The apparatus described consists of a suitable tank mounted
on a wheel for carrying gasoline. The tank is connected with
a series of horizontal pipes which carry a series of burners, and
"project a flame downward against the pavement."
"In carrying out the invention A represents a suitable tank
for carrying gasoline mounted on the wheeled frame B and
connected by the pipe 0 with a series of horizontal pipes, D.
These pipes D carry a series of burners, E, which pass through
a hood or shield, F, and project a flame downward against the
pavement. Pressure is thus obtained upon the gasoline to force
it to the burners and to produce a blast by means of an air
pump, G, mounted upon the tank."
The letters patent further say:
"The apparatus is also provided with a handle, H, whereby
the operator may readily move it to the desired spot. Now as
would be seen by turning on as many of the burners as are desired, a strong blast of heat is projected against the surface of
the asphalt and readily melts it. As explained above, when it is
desired to repair a spot the apparatus is moved adjacent thereto
with the burners directly above the spot. These soon reduce
the surface asphalt, both at the spot and at the surrounding
VOL. CLXXXIII-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

edges, to a pliable state, the strong blast causing not only the
immediate surface, but the particles deep down, to be melted
and yet not burned. With a rake or other suitable instrument
the operator then agitates or stirs up the softened material,
and by adding new material of substantially the same degree
of softness the spot or depression to be repaired is filled up and
subjected to the usual smoothing and finishing operation as in
the case of a new pavement. This, as will be seen, is done
without the use of the tar for the purpose of uniting the parts
or sections of material, and is done without any distinct dividing line between the old and new material. In fact, there is no
dividing line, because the new material has been mixed with
and becomes a part of the old material. As stated above, while
heating the spot to be repaired the surrounding edges or portions must be heated to a greater or less degree, and the new
material is worked into these edges as well as in the spot to be
repaired, so that when hardened it is practically impossible to
tell where the pavement has been repaired.
"What I claim is"1. The method of repairing asphalt pavements, which consists in subjecting the spot to be repaired to heat, adding new
material and smoothing and burnishing it, substantially as described.
"2. The method of repairing asphalt pavements, which consists in subjecting the spot to be repaired to heat until the
material is softened, agitating it and mixing with it new material, and finally smoothing and burnishing it, substantially as
described."
Infringement is only asserted of the first claim, and, considering the language of the claim and of the specifications, it
seems impossible to escape the conclusion that the invention
claimed is for the application of heat to the spot to be repaired.
And the patentee did not confine himself to the particular apparatus he described. That, he said, was "one form of accomplishing the result." He would have it understood, he said,
that he did not confine himself "to any particular form of apparatus for carrying out" his invention, and the independence
of his method from any form of apparatus is brought out by

U. S. REPAIR &c. CO. v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT CO. 595
Opinion of the Court.

contrast of what had been done and what he proposed to do
as an improvement. What had been done was to take out
with a pick or other instrument the surface material around the
spot to be repaired, sometimes applying heat to the spot to
soften the material, so that it might more easily be removed.
And the new method he proposed was to subject the spot to be
repaired and surrounding edges to such a degree of heat that
the surface asphalt, not only the exact spot to be repaired, but
the surrounding material, to a greater or less degree, will be
reduced to the soft, pliable state in which it was originally
laid. - Here we have the comparison of the two methods. The
old was to take out the surface material around the spot to be
repaired, sometimes applying heat to soften such material. The
new method was to apply heat, not only to the exact spot to
be repaired, but the surrounding edges. What, then, was the
advantage of the new method? The patent tells us. In the
old method the depression made by the removal of material was
"thoroughly cleaned and given a coat or dressing of tar." The
tar acted as a solder, but the joint between the old and the new
material was discernible, and often a ridge was formed, and the
adhesion of the materials yielded to frost and other causes.
The new method dispenses with the tar and its consequences.
It substituted the melting of the surrounding edges, producing
a union and coalescing of the old and new material, making a
better appearing and more lasting repair. If the method and
effect of the patent be different from this, we are unable to discern it from the patent or from the testimony. Indeed, there
is no other difference established by the testimony. One of
the expert witnesses of the petitioner testified as follows:
"It is further evident that in such use of defendants' device
and in the repair of pavements in part by the use of said device
by defendants, the use of tar or any other cement or ' solder'
is obviated, that the union between the patch of new material
and the old pavement is direct, immediate and complete without the intervention of an interposed body of tar or like material, and that the joint need, therefore, present none of the
disadvantages, objections or defects in respect either of appear-

OCTOBER IERAI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ance or of effectiveness, which distinguished the old tar joint
and which are obviated by the method here in controversy.
"There are three steps or process elements enumerated in
this claim, to wit: First, Isubjecting the spot to be repaired
to heat;' second, I adding new material; ' and third, ' smoothing and burnishing.' These are all performed in the same order by the defendants. The separate steps, are, moreover,
essentially the same in kind in defendant's practice, as set
forth in the patent. The heat is applied to the spot to be
repaired with a flame blast. The new material added is the
same in condition and character; it is not tar or any part
tar, but is solely the asphalt composition like that of the old
pavement, and in the soft condition and heated state in which
said composition is and was originally applied. The smoothing and burnishing is the same step in both cases, being the
old and familiar operation performed by means of heated
metal tamping and smoothing irons long before used in leveling and smoothing original asphalt pavement surfaces."
And he further testified:
"It appears to me to be a feature of the patented method,
or a characteristic of the steps of applying the new material,
that the new material is placed into direct contact with the
old, as if the claim read I adding new material in direct contact with the old material and smoothing and burnishing it."'
In other words, the mixing of the old and new material
around the edges of the excavation and "adding of new material in direct contact with the old material, smoothing and
burnishing it," is the essence of the invention, and so unqualifiedly is this true that a witness of petitioner testified that if the
heat which was applied not only melted, but burned the immediate surface and as well "1the particles deep down," and the
material thus burned raked away clean before new material
was applied, the method of the patent would be followed.
As thus described, was there anything in the art which preceded the Perkins method and took from it the claim of originality and invention? The Circuit Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals found that a patent issued to Paul Crochet,

U. S. REPAIR &c. CO. v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT CO.597
Opinion of the Court.

June 11, 1880, in France, had that effect, and we concur in the
finding. The process described in the Crochet patent is for the
"Preparation and Recharging of Compressed Asphalt Roadways." The following is the specification of the patent:
"When it was designed to repair or recharge a roadway in

asphalt with the means which are now at command, the operator generally delimits with a pick the part which is to be replaced and takes therefrom the asphalt; but it is rare that this
operation has not for consequence the starting of the adjacent
portions which axe sound, swelling them up in such wise that
at the end of a little while it is necessary to repair them in
their turn.
"To avoid this I have designed a process for repairing and
recharging asphalt roads which suppresses such inconveniences.
It consists in reheating the part to be mended by means of a
movable furnace which the operator shifts about at the surface
of the roadway until such portion decrepitates and becomes friable. The upper part of the layer of asphalt and that which
has been damaged are taken off by means of an iron scraper
armed with small teeth, which perform the office of a rake;
said scraper in raising the material forms at the same time
upon the part remaining numerous strio which render the
surface wrinkled and augment the adherence of the additional over-thickness which constitutes the recharge.
"The repeated passage of the movable furnace thereon has
equally for its effect to vaporize the water and the humidity
which are found in the asphalt pavement at the portion to
be repaired or recharged.
"After this preparatory operation, the workman spreads a
convenient depth of asphalt in powder-like state and stamps
it by the ordinary means; because of the softening of the
subjacent layer, said layer solders itself perfectly to the new
coat, and forms with it a thickness without break in continuity. Such repair and such recharging do not at all impair
the neighboring portions.
"It is clearly evident, besides, that the same work of recharging can be done over the whole surface of a street instead of
being done in spots, and that it is independent of the depth of
the asphalt layer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"The heating apparatus which I have arranged for thus
effecting the softening the surface of the asphalt roadways is
represented on the drawing annexed, in longitudinal and transverse sections, Figs. 1 and 2. It is composed of a box body,
the sides A, A, B, B, of which are perforated throughout, and
the bottom C, whereof is formed a grating, below which there
is a metal plate, D, to radiate the heat over the surface of the
asphalt. Said plate D is movable to allow for the withdrawal
of cinders. The box is mounted upon the wheels E, the
axes o whereof are adjustable upon supports a, the elevation of
which in guides b can be varied to augment or diminish the distance of the box to the roadway. A handle, F, serves to
manceuver the car over the pavement. This system, especially
applicable for streets of compressed asphalt, can be equally employed to repair and recharge streets of bitumen.
"Resume:
"I claim as my invention my system for reparation and recharge of asphalt roadways, presenting as distinctive characteristics the points following:
"1st. The softening of the upper surface of the asphalt
layer at the part to be repaired, and the removal of such upper
surface by means of a toothed scraper which striates the part
remaining.
"2d. Recharging, by the addition upon the surface thus
softened, of an asphalt layer of convenient thickness, which is
stamped by the usual means.
"3d. The movable furnace which I have combined to such
end, according to the conditions described and represented."
The similarity, if not identity, of the patents is manifest, and
it would seem unnecessary to enlarge upon their resemblance.
They are both methods of repairing asphalt roadways; they
both apply heat to the spot to be repaired; the old material is
removed in the Crochet patent; in the Perkins patent it is reduced to the state in which it was originally laid, then agitated
and mixed with new material. But this agitation and mixing of old and new material is not necessary to the method.
It may be advisable to do, or not to do, a witness testified. But
further, the Perkins patent calls for a heating of the surround-

U. S. REPAIR &c. CO.v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT CO. 599
Opinion of the Court.

ing edges of the spot to be repaired, to make continuity between
the spot repaired and the surrounding pavement. The Crochet
patent has not this detail in words, but it is clearly implied.
"
Describing the prior art, the Crochet patent says: C.
the operator generally delimits with a pick the part which is
to be replaced and takes therefrom the asphalt; but it is rare
that this operation has not for consequence the starting of the
adjacent portions which are sound, swelling them up in such
wise that at the end of a little while it is necessary to repair
them in their turn." His method, he says, "suppresses such
inconveniences," and the repeated passing of the heating apparatus over the pavement has the effect that the new coat forms
with the old "a thickness without break in continuity, and it
does not at all impair the neighboring portions." Surely, considering the method of this patent alone, it did not require the
exercise of invention to pass to or conceive the Perkins method.
Besides, that conception had the aid of other publications. In
some of them the application of heat is mentioned as necessary
in the original construction of asphalt pavements and also in
their repair. In a work entitled "Asphalt, its Origin, its Preparation and its Application," by Leon Malo, published in Paris
in 1888, the repair of pavements after excavations and deteriorations was described. In making excavations two precautions were recommended, and the second consisted, the
author said"In heating the edge rims of the asphalted bed which limit
(i. e., define) the whole trench before pouring in the hot powder
destined to repair the part lacking."
And again, as to deteriorations:
"The wheels of vehicles encounter the disintegrated parts,
digging there a hole which-if it be not promptly repairedfinishes by deepening itself as far as the beton. The sole remedy for this evil is to remove all the bad part and replace it
by new asphalt, taking care therein to heat the edges of the
sound portion so as to obtain a perfect soldering, as we have
explained a little further back."
The counsel claim, however, that the Perkins "method is
characterized by a new and useful way of applying heat to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

pavement, to wit, by sending a flame blast into direct contact
with the pavement surface," and that the Crochet patent had
no suggestion of that, and besides the Crochet process applied
to compressed asphalt roadways, which was a different asphalt
roadway than that to which the Perkins method was intended
to apply. And upon the difference in the asphalt, counsel has
dwelt long and interestingly, but the argument finally comes to
a dependence upon the fact that the compressed asphalt of the
Crochet patent disintegrates and crumbles, and if overheated
becomes as inert as sand; whereas the asphalt of the Perkins
patent melts under the action of heat and has "a peculiar
property or 'susceptibility,' namely, that when its surface is
subjected constantly to a lively heat, the exposed material automatically covers itself with a thin, protecting shield, and merely
melts and softens beneath that shield." The answer to the contentions is that given by the Circuit Court of Appeals; the patent does not support them. Before the time of either patent
the world knew that heat disintegrated some things and melted
others, and we cannot concede invention to the thought that
that might be true of different kinds of asphalt. Indeed, even
in the face of the grave testimony contained in this record given
by unquestionably expert men, we find it also difficult to concede that it was an exertion of invention to apply heat to the
edges of an excavation to make a bond between the old and the
new material. To devise an instrument to do that well and
quickly might be invention, and that Perkins achieved by his
apparatus patent. To allow him more under the facts of this
record would be to give him a monopoly of the machine and
of that which the machine can do. And this is an answer to
the contention based upon the peculiar property of American
asphalt to interpose a shield against a blasting heat to protect
itself from destruction, a virtue in American asphalt, no doubt.
If it is a virtue resulting from a peculiar application of heat,
there is nothing in the record to show that Perkins was aware
of it. He certainly did not reveal it in the specifications of his
patent nor describe it as part of his method. His apparatus, it
is true, is provided with burners by which blasts of heat may
be projected against the pavement. But his method is independ-

U. S. REPAIR &c. CO. v. ASSYRIAN ASPHALT CO. 601
Opinion of the Court.

ent of his apparatus. He says in his patent: "The heating of
the surface may be accomplished in various ways and by means
of various forms of apparatus, and while I have herein shown
but one form for accomplishing the result, yet I would have it
understood that I do not limit myself to any particular form of
apparatus for carrying out my invention."
And what is claimed is, as we have seen, "the subjecting the
spot to be repaired to heat."
In further answer to the contention we may quote the Circuit
Court of Appeals as follows:
"Another objection to the proposed limitation of the claim by
making it read ' a blast of heat,' or ' a strong blast of heat,' in
lieu of the unqualified word 'heat,' is in the fact that the third
claim, which contained the additional words, was withdrawn by
the patentee upon a ruling or declaration of the Patent Office
that the first and third claims were the same in substance and
could not both be permitted to remain in the case. That was
not merely a casual expression of opinion by an examiner, but
was in effect a requirement that one or the other of the claims
be withdrawn, and no reason is perceived for not applying the
ordinary rule. Having voluntarily abandoned the claim for a
method limited to the use of 'a blast of heat,' the patentee or
his assignee may not now insist that a broad claim, containing
no suggestion of such intention, shall nevertheless be subjected
by construction to the same restriction. This point, in view of
the reservation already considered, is unimportant and might
be passed, but it is to be observed that if the third claim was
withdrawn by mistake, a correction should have been sought in
the Patent Office, either by a surrender and reissue, or possibly
by a new application. It is not within the rightful power of
the courts to enlarge or restrict the scope of patents which by
mistake were issued in terms too narrow or too broad to cover
the invention, however manifest the fact and extent of the mistake may be shown to have been."
Decree.afflmed.

