Ex Parte WILDER'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY.

545

Statement of the Case.

v. People, 46 Mich. 193, 211; County of Redwood v. Winona
and St. Peter Land Co., 40 Minn. 512, 522. This is not a suit
brought by a property holder to restrain the collection of taxes,
in which case it would be incumbent upon him to pay, or tender, the amount conceded to be due, but one in which the authorities are the moving party seeking to collect taxes, and in
which the liability in toto is denied, and the property subject
to taxation not fully identified or the amount of taxes determined until the final judgment. Viewing the proceedings
from an equitable standpoint, we see no error in refusing interest prior to the decree.
The decree qf the Supreme Court of NVew 2exico is afparty to pay the costs of its appealto this court.
fwrmed, eacl&

Ew parte WILDER'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MIANDAMUS.
No. 9. Original. Submitted Iay 13, 1901.- Decided January 6,1902.
A decree in admiralty in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii, in
a case pending in the courts of the Republic of Hawaii at the time of its
annexation to the United States, is not subject to an appeal to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

THIs was a petition by the Wilder's Steamship Company, a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Territory of Hawaii, for a writ of mandamus to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to entertain an
appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii.
On December 27, 1899, the steamer Claudine, one of the petitioner's steamships, came into collision with the barkentine William Carson. On February 5, 1900, the owners of the William
Carson and of her cargo filed a libel in admiralty against the
steamship company in the circuit court of the first judicial circuit of the Republic of Hawaii. On May 7, 1900, that court
VOL.

cLxxxm-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

rendered a decree against the steamship company in the sum
of $55,000, upon the ground that the collision was caused by
the fault of the steamship company, with no fault or negligence on the part of those in charge of the William Carson.
From that decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the Republic of Hawaii, as provided by the then existing
law of the Republic. On November 9, 1900, the cause having
come on regularly to be heard before the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Hawaii, the decree was affirmed by that court.
On the same day, an appeal was claimed from that court to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, but was denied, for want of jurisdiction, by the Supreme
Court of the Territory on November 7, 1900, and by the Circuit Court of Appeals on April 1, 1901. 13 Hawaii, 174; 108
Fed. Rep. 113.
On March 5, 1901, the steamship company presented to this
court a petition praying that an order, under section 15 of the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, assigning the Territory of Hawaii
to the Ninth Circuit, might be made nuncpro tune as of June15,
1900, the date at which the act of Congress of April 30, 1900,
c. 339, entitled "An Act to provide a government for the Territory of Hawaii," took effect.
On April 12, 1901, the petitioner filed in this court a petition
praying for a similar order, and further praying that a writ of
mandamus might issue to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to set aside its order denying
the appeal, and to entertain the cause.
On April 15, 1901, this court "ordered that the Territory of
Hawaii be, and it is hereby, assigned to the Ninth Judicial Circuit under section 15 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891;"
gave leave to file this petition for a writ of mandamus; and
awarded a rule to show cause, returnable on May 13.
On May 3, after that order, the petitioner presented to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit another petition
for the allowance of an appeal from the decree of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Hawaii; and that petition was denied.
On May 13, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Cir-

E-zEarte WILDER'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

cuit made a return, that upon the facts stated in the petition
it had not jurisdiction of the appeal; that the question whether
.thad such jurisdiction came before it for adjudication and was
judicially determined; and that its decision in the matter constituted a final judgment, properly subject to review in this
court by writ of certiorari..
The case was submitted to this court upon the petition for
a mandamus, the return thereto, and a motion of the petitioner
to file in evidence its petition of May 3 to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and the disallowance thereof.
The Republic of Hawaii, before its annexation to the United
States, had a fully organized government. The judicial system
consisted of courts of original and appellate jurisdiction, whose
powers were defined by the constitution and statutes of the
Republic. The circuit courts were the courts of general original jurisdiction, and had power to determine all civil causes
in admiralty. In such causes, as well as in other cases, the
Supreme Court had appellate jurisdiction, and its decrees,
by express provision of the constitution, were made "final and
conclusive." Constitution of Hawaii, arts. 82-86. Ballou's
Civil Laws of Hawaii, 1897, §§ 1105, 1136, 1144, 1145, 1164,
1430, 1433,1434.
By the Joint Resolution of the Congress of the United States
of July 7, 1898, c. 55, the Hawaiian Islands were annexed to the
United States, and it was provided that "until Congress shall
provide for the government of such islands, all the civil, judicial
and military powers exercised by the officers of the existing
government in said islands shall be vested in such person or
persons and shall be exercised in such manner as the President
of the United States shall direct; and the President shall have
power to remove said officers and fill the vacancies thus occasioned;" and that "the municipal legislation of the Hawaiian
Islands," "not inconsistent with this joint resolution, nor contrary to the Constitution of the United States, nor to any existing treaty of the United States, shall remain in force until
the Congress of the United States shall otherwise determine."
30 Stat. '750.
On July 8, 1898, "in the exercise of the power thus conferred

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

upon him by the Joint Resolution, the President hereby directs
that the civil, judicial and military powers in question shall be
exercised by the officers of the. Republic of Hawaii as it existed
just prior to the transfer of sovereignty, subject to his power
to remove such officers and to fill the vacancies." Letter of
Secretary of State to Minister Sewall; Report 305, H. R. 56th
Congr. 1st Sess. p. 3.
On August 12, 1898, the sovereignty of the Hawaiian Islands
was transferred to the United States. The act of Congress of
April 90, 1900, c. 339, entitled "An Act to provide a government for the Territory of Hawaii," which by its terms took
effect June 15, 1890, declared in § I that the phrase "the laws
of Hawaii," as therein used, should mean the constitution and
laws of the Republic of Hawaii in force at the date of the transfer; and in § 2 that the islands so acquired should be known as
the Territory of Hawaii; and contained the following provisions:
"SEC. 5. The Constitution and, except as herein otherwise
provided, all the laws of the United States which are not locally
inapplicable shall have the same force and effect within the
new Territory as elsewhere in the United States."
"SEC. 6. The laws of Hawaii not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United States or the provisions of this
act shall remain in force, subject to repeal or amendment by
the legislature of Hawaii or the Congress of the United States."
Section 7 repealed the constitution and various laws of the
Republic of Hawaii, including those on maritime matters. 31
Stat. 141, 142.
"SEC. 10. All rights of action, suits at law and in equity, prosecutions and judgments existing prior to the taking effect of
this act shall continue to be as effectual as if this act had not
been passed." "All criminal and penal proceedings then pending in the courts of the Republic of Hawaii shall be prosecuted
to final judgment and execution in the name of the Territory
of Hawaii; all such proceedings, all actions at law, suits in
equity, and other proceedings, then pending in the courts of
the Republic of Hawaii, shall be carried on to final judgment
and execution in the corresponding courts of the Territory of

Exparte WILDER'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

Hawaii; and all process issued and sentences impcsed before
this act takes effect shall be as valid as if issued or imposed in
the name of the Territory of Hawaii." 31 Stat. 143.
"SEC. 81. The judicial powers of the Territory shall be
vested in one supreme court, circuit courts, and in such inferior
courts as the legislature may from time to time establish. And
until the legislature shall otherwise provide, the laws of Hawaii
heretofore in force concerning the local courts and their jurisdiction and procedure shall continue in force, except as herein
.otherwise provided."
"SEo. 83. The laws of Hawaii relative to the judicial department, including civil and criminal procedure, except as amended
by this act, are continued in force, subject to modification by
Congress or the legislature." 31 Stat. 157.
86. There shall be established in said Territory a Dis"S..
trict Court to consist of one judge, who shall reside therein and
be called the District Judge. The President of the United States,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United
States, shall appoint a district judge, a district attorney and a marshal of the United States for the said district, and said judge, attorney and marshal shall hold office for six years unless sooner
removed by the President. Said court shall have, in addition
to the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of the United
States, jurisdiction of all cases cognizable in a Circuit Court of
the United States, and shall proceed therein in the same manner
as a Circuit Court; and said judge, district attorney and marshal
shall have and exercise in the Territory of Hawaii all the powers conferred by the laws of the United States upon the judges,
district attorneys and marshals of District and Circuit Courts
of the United States. Writs of error and appeals from said
District Court shall be had and allowed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the Ninth Judicial Circuit in the same manner as
writs of error and appeals are allowed from Circuit Courts to
Circuit Courts of Appeals as provided by law; and the laws of
the United States relating to juries and jury trials shall be applicable to said District Court. The laws of the United States
relating to appeals, writs of error, removal of causes, and other
matters and pioceedings as between the courts of the United

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

States and the courts of the several States, shall govern in such
matters and proceedings as between the courts of the United
States and the courts of the Territory of Hawaii." 31 Stat.
158.
.Mr. Duane E.Fox for Wilder's Steamship Co.
.Xr. C/ arles Page and others, opposing.
MR.JUSTIE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the appeal from the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Hawaii to the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit was rightly disallowed.
The libel in admiralty was originally brought, and a decree
made, in a court of the Republic of Hawaii having jurisdiction
of the cause, and an appeal from that decree was duly taken to
the Supreme Court of Hawaii, as provided by the then existing
law of the Republic. While the appeal was lawfully pending
in the courts of Hawaii, Congress, by the act of April 30, 1900,
c. 339, provided a government for the Territory of Hawaii, establishing therein a Supreme Court and other courts, and enacting, in section 10, that "all actions at law, suits in equity, and
other proceedings, then pending in the courts of the Republic
of Hawaii, shall be carried on to final judgment and execution
in the corresponding courts of the Territory of Hawaii." This
appeal in admiralty was one of the "other proceedings" then
pending in the courts of the Republic of Hawaii, which were
"to be carried on to final judgment and execution in the corresponding courts of the Territory of Hawaii." On November 9, 1900, the cause having come on regularly to be heard
before the Supreme Court of the Territory, in accordance with
the act of Congress, the decree below was affirmed; andonthe
same day an appeal from the decree of affirmance was claimed
to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.
The act of Congress of 1900 contains no provision authorizing

.Ex2arte WILDER'S STEAMBOAT COMPANY.

551

Opinion of the Court.

such an appeal. The petitioner refers to section 86 of that act,
which established in the Territory a District Court of the United
States with the powers of a Circuit Court of the United States.
Bat that court is given no appellate jurisdiction. The provision allowing writs of error and appeals from that court to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Judicial Circuit does
not touch appeals from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Hawaii. And the remaining clause as to appeals, writs of error,
removals of causes and other matters and proceedings between
the courts of the United States and the courts of the Territory
of Hawaii provides that they shall be governed, not by the laws
applicable to other Territories, but by the laws of the United
States as to such matters and proceedings "as between the
courts of the United States and the courts of the several States."
Congress may have considered that, owing to the great distance
of the Territory of Hawaii from the continent, the appellate
jurisdiction over that Territory should be more restricted than
over other Territories, and should extend only, as in the case
of the several States, to judgments against a right claimed under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States. But
whatever may have been the reasons which influenced Congress,
its language is too plain to be misunderstood. Cases in admiralty, brought after the act of 1900 took effect, must of course
be brought in the District Court of the United States, and subject to the right of appeal therein provided to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. But as to cases in admiralty
pending in the courts of Hawaii when the act took effect, there
is no special provision, and they therefore remain, like other
civil cases, to be finally determined in the courts of the Territory of Hawaii, under the general provision of section 10. In
cases in admiralty, as in all other cases pending in the courts
of Hawaii at that time, it was within the discretionary power
of Congress to provide that they should remain within the jurisdiction and determination of the courts of the Territory; and
it has clearly so. provided as to pending suits of all classes. The
fact that in a State cases in admiralty cannot be brought in its
courts, but only in the courts of the United States, affords no
reason for implying that Congress, without any language ex-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

pressing such an intention, meant to vest in any court of the
United States either original or appellate jurisdiction in cases
in admiralty pending in the courts of Hawaii when this act of
Congress took effect.
Reliance is placed by the petitioner on section 15 of the act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, (long before the annexation of Hawaii,)
establishing Circuit Courts of Appeals, which provides that" the
Circuit Court of Appeal, in cases in which the judgments of the
Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final by this act," (which
include cases in admiralty,) "shall have the same appellate jurisdiction, by writ of error or appeal, to review the judgments,
orders and decrees of the supreme courts of the several Territories as by this act they may have to review the judgments,
orders and decrees of the District Court and Circuit Courts;
and for that purpose the several Territories shall, by orders of
the Supreme Court, to be made from time to time, be assigned
to particular circuits." 26 Stat. 830. But on November 9,
1900, when this appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit was claimed from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii, as well as on April 12, 1901, when this petition for a writ of mandamus was filed, this court had made no
order assigning the Territory of Hawaii to any judicial circuit.
The order made by this court on April 15, 1901, assigning the
Territory of Hawaii to the Ninth Judicial Circuit, was not, as
this petitioner requested, made as of a former day, but took effect only from its date. And no order of this court, assigning
the Territory of Hawaii to a judicial circuit under the act of
1891, can give a right of appeal inconsistent with the provision
of section 86 of the later act of 1900 restricting such appeals to
cases in which by the laws of the United States they are allowable to the courts of the United States from the courts of the
several States.
Petition dismissed.

